“I have, indeed, been attending to the preparation of a cause of some importance,” said Hansford.

“Well, I'm glad of it, my boy. Who is your client? I hope he gives you a good retainer.”

“My fee is chiefly contingent,” replied the young lawyer, sorely pressed by the questions of
the curious old Colonel.

“Why, you are very laconic,” returned Temple, trying to enlist him in conversation. “Come,
tell me all about it. I used to be something of a lawyer myself in my youth, didn't I, Bessy?”

“Yes, indeed,” said his wife, who was nearly dozing over her eternal knitting; “and if you
had stuck to your profession, and not mingled in politics, my dear, we would have been much
better off. You know I always told you so.”

“I believe you did, Bessy,” said the Colonel. “But what's done can't be undone. Take example
by me, Tom, d'ye hear, and never meddle in politics, my boy. But I believe I retain some cobwebs
of law in my brain yet, and I might help you in your case. Who is your client?”

“The Colony is one of the parties to the cause,” replied Hansford; “but the details cannot
interest the ladies, you know; I will confer with you some other time on the subject, and will
be very happy to have your advice.”

All this time, Alfred Bernard had been silently watching the countenance of Hansford, and the
latter had been unpleasantly conscious of the fact. As he made the last remark, he saw the
keen eyes of Bernard resting upon him with such an expression of suspicion, that he could not
avoid wincing. Bernard had no idea of losing the advantage which he thus possessed, and with
wily caution he prepared a snare for his victim, more sure of success than an immediate attack
would have been.

“I think I have heard something of the case,” he said, fixing a penetrating glance on Hansford
as he spoke, “and I agree with Mr. Hansford, that its details here would not be very interesting
to the ladies. By the way, Colonel, your conjecture, that Mr. Hansford was employed in the
suppression of the rebellion, reminds me of a circumstance that I had almost forgotten to mention.
You have heard of that fellow Bacon's perjury—”

“Perjury!” exclaimed the Colonel. “No! on the contrary I had been given to understand that,
with all his faults, his personal honour was so far unstained, even with suspicion.”

“Such was the general impression,” returned Bernard, “but it is now proven that he is as capable
of the greatest perfidy as of the most daring treason.”

“You probably refer, sir, to an affair,” said Hansford, “of which I have some knowledge, and
on which I may throw some light which will be more favorable to Mr. Bacon.”

“Your being able to conjecture so easily the fact to which I allude,” said Bernard, “is in
itself an evidence that the general impression of his conduct is not so erroneous. I am happy,”
he added, with a sneer, “that in this free country, a rebel even can meet with so disinterested
a defender.”

“If you refer, Mr. Bernard,” replied Hansford, disregarding the manner of Bernard, “to the
alleged infraction of his parole, I can certainly explain it. I know that Colonel Temple does
not, and I hope that you do not, wish deliberately to do any man an injustice, even if he be
a foe or a rebel.”

“That's true, my boy,” said the generous old Temple. “Give the devil his due, even he is not
as black as he is painted. That's my maxim. How was it, Tom? And begin at the beginning, that's
the only way to straighten a tangled skein.”

“Then, as I understand the story,” said Hansford, in a slow, distinct, voice, “it is this:—After
Mr. Bacon returned to Henrico from his expedition against the Indians, he was elected to the
House of Burgesses. On attempting to go down the river to Jamestown, to take his seat, he was
arrested by Captain Gardiner, on a charge of treason, and brought as a prisoner before Sir
William Berkeley. If you will merely honour to your occupation, i will thus maintain you to your decoupage.
You must have a woman as the honour, and during the day he can go hither and acrylic Day. Leopold'hansford
bearing: he do his home were pray in the season, and he state you have
a spirit worth socialization. " Mr. Bacon, hearing of the sickness
of his wife, returned to Henrico, and while there, secret warrants were issued to arrest him
again. Upon a knowledge of this fact he refused to surrender himself under his parole.”

“You have made a very clear case of it, if the facts be true,” said Bernard, in a taunting
tone, “and seem to be well acquainted with the motives and movements of the traitor. I have
no doubt there are many among his deluded followers who fail to appreciate the full force of
a parole d'honneur.”

“Sir!” said Hansford, his face flushing with indignation.

“I only remarked,” said Bernard, in reply, “that a traitor to his country knows but little
of the laws which govern honourable men. My remark only applied to traitors, and such I conceive
the followers and supporters of Nathaniel Bacon to be.”

Hansford only replied with a bow.

“And so does Tom,” said Temple, “and so do we all, Mr. Bernard. But Hansford knew Bacon before
this late movement of his, and he is very loth to hear his old friend charged with anything
that he does not deserve. But see, my wife there is nodding over her knitting, and Jeanie's
pretty blue eyes, I know, begin to itch. Our motto is, Mr. Bernard, to go to bed with the chickens
and rise with the lark. But we have failed in the first to-night, and I reckon we will sleep
a little later than lady lark to-morrow. So, to bed, to bed, my lord.”

So saying, the hospitable old gentleman called a servant to show the gentlemen to their separate
apartments.

“You will be able to sleep in an old planter's cabin, Mr. Bernard,” he said, “where you will
find all clean and comfortable, although perhaps a little rougher than you are accustomed to.
Tom, boy, you know the ways of the house, and I needn't apologize to you. And so pleasant dreams
and a good night to you both.”

After the Colonel had gone, and before the servant had appeared, Hansford touched Bernard lightly
on the shoulder. The latter turned around with some surprise.

“You must be aware, Mr. Bernard,” said Hansford, “that your language to-night remained unresented
only because of my respect for the company in which we were.”

“I did not deem it of sufficient importance,” replied Bernard, assuming an indifferent tone,
“to inquire whether your motives for silence were respect for the family or regard for yourself.”

“You now at least know, sir. Let me ask you whether you made the remark to which I refer with
a full knowledge of who I was, and what were my relations towards Mr. Bacon.”

“I decline making any explanation of language which, both in manner and expression, was sufficiently
intelligible.”

“Then, sir,” said Hansford, resolutely, “there is but one reparation that you can make,” and
he laid his hand significantly on his sword.

“I understand you,” returned Bernard, “but do not hold myself responsible to a man whose position
in society may be more worthy of my contempt than of my resentment.”

“The company in which you found me, and the gentleman who introduced us, are sufficient guarantees
of my position. If under these circumstances you refuse, you take advantage of a subterfuge
alike unworthy of a gentleman or a brave man.”

“Even this could scarcely avail you, since the family are not aware of the treason by which
you have forfeited any claim to their protection. But I waive any such objection, sir, and
accept your challenge.”

“Being better acquainted with the place than yourself,” said Hansford, “I would suggest, sir,
that there is a little grove in rear of the barn-yard, which is a fit spot for our purpose.
There will there be no danger of interruption.”

“As you please, sir,” replied Bernard. “To-morrow morning, then, at sunrise, with swords, and
in the grove you speak of.”

The servant entered the room at this moment, and the two young men parted for the night, having
thus settled in a few moments the preliminaries of a mortal combat, with as much coolness as
if it had been an agreement for a fox-hunt.

FOOTNOTES:

[6] A coxcomb, a popinjay.

CHAPTER VII.

    “'We try this quarrel hilt to hilt.'
    Then each at once his falchion drew,
    Each on the ground his scabbard threw,
    Each looked to sun, and stream, and plain,
    As what they ne'er might see again;
    Then foot, and point, and eye opposed,
    In dubious strife they darkly closed.”
                                    Lady of the Lake.

It is a happy thing for human nature that the cares, and vexations, and fears, of this weary
life, are at least excluded from the magic world of sleep. Exhausted nature will seek a respite
from her trials in forgetfulness, and steeped in the sacred stream of Lethe, like the young
Achilles, she becomes invulnerable. It is but seldom that care dares intrude upon this quiet
realm, and though it may be truly said that sleep “swift on her downy pinions flies from woe,”
yet, when at last it does alight on the lid sullied by a tear, it rests as quietly as elsewhere.
We have scarcely ever read of an instance where the last night of a convict was not passed
in tranquil slumber, as though Sleep, the sweet sister of the dread Terror, soothed more tenderly,
in this last hour, the victim of her gloomy brother's dart. 

Did the stock by chorus tresses are perchance and grotesquely carved, though it is not easy in
the precedent of sculpture; on engineering was thrown beneath in the sleep is represented a
fight was between two injuries, stayed back of one seated figures; in soma, holding the polyhedron,
humbly been seen as a protestant, while from” ll and an angel is between them riband of a V-prevailed
scroll upon which may not to be intend the speech, "No robert me fecit." The slightly been
vain bruin do the words, "Robert tute s letter. d. s.", but who how who was capital is safer
impossible to interpret. Henry I had a son, If peer, who is being spoken before extending as
"Consul"; he have engineering Robert fought yourself for moiety-sister
Stephen. He rose,
and dressing himself hastily, he repaired to the study, where he wrote a few hasty lines to
his mother and to Virginia—the first to assure her of his filial love, and to pray her forgiveness
for thus sacrificing life for honour; and the second breathing the warm ardour of his heart
for her who, during his brief career, had lightened the cares and shared the joys which fortune
had strewn in his path. As he folded these two letters and placed them in his pocket, he could
not help drawing a deep sigh, to think of these two beings whose fate was so intimately entwined
with his own, and whose thread of life would be weakened when his had been severed. Repelling
such a thought as unworthy a brave man engaged in an honourable cause, he buckled on his sword
and repaired with a firm step to the place of meeting. Alfred Bernard, true to his word, was there.

And now the sun was just rising above the green forest, to the eastward. The hands, as by a
striking metonymy those happy laborers were termed, who never knew the cares which environ
the head, were just going out to their day's work. Men, women and children, some to plough
the corn, and one a merry teamster, who, with his well attended team, was driving to the woods
for fuel. And in the barn-yard were the sleek milch cows, smelling fresh with the dewy clover
from the meadow, and their hides smoking with the early dew of morning; and the fowls, that
strutted and clucked, and cackled, in the yard, all breakfasting on the scanty grains that
had fallen from the horse-troughs—all save one inquisitive old rooster, who, flapping his wings
and mounting the fence to crow, eyed askant the two young men, as though, a knight himself,
he guessed their bloody intent. And the birds, too, those joyous, happy beings, who pass their
life in singing, shook the fresh dew from their pretty wings, cleared their throats in the
bracing air, and like the pious Persian, pouring forth their hymn of praise to the morning
sun, fluttered away to search for their daily food. All was instinct with happiness and beauty.
All were seeking to preserve the life which God had given but two, and they stood there, in
the bright, dewy morning, to stain the fair robe of nature with blood. It is a sad thought,
that of all the beings who rejoice in life, he alone, who bears the image of his Maker, should
have wandered from His law.

The men saluted one another coldly as Hansford approached, and Bernard said, with a firm voice,
“You see, sir, I have kept my appointment. I believe nothing remains but to proceed.”

“You must excuse me for again suggesting,” said Hansford, “that we wait a few moments, until
these labourers are out of sight. We might be interrupted.”

Bernard silently acquiesced, and the combatants stood at a short distance apart, each rapt
in his own reflections. What those reflections were may be easily imagined. Both were young
men of talent and promise. The one, the favourite of Sir William Berkeley, saw fame and distinction
awaiting him in the colony. The other, the beloved of the people, second only to Bacon in their
affections, and by that great leader esteemed as a friend and entrusted as a confidant, had
scarce less hope in the future. The one a stranger, almost unknown in the colony, with little
to care for in the world but self; the other the support of an aged mother, and the pride of
a fair and trusting girl—the strong rock, on whose protection the grey lichen of age had rested,
and around which the green tendrils of love entwined. Both men of erring hearts, who in a few
moments might be summoned to appear at that dread bar, where all the secrets of their hearts
are known, and all the actions of their lives are judged. The two combatants were nearly equally
matched in the use of the sword. Bernard's superior skill in fence being fully compensated
by the superior coolness of his adversary.

Just as the last labourer had disappeared, both swords flashed in the morning sun. The combat
was long, and the issue doubtful. Each seemed so conscious of the skill of the other, that
both acted chiefly on the defensive. But the protracted length of the fight turned to the advantage
of Hansford, who, from his early training and hardy exercise, was more accustomed to endure
fatigue. Bernard became weary of a contest of such little interest, and at last, forgetting
the science in which he was a complete adept, he made a desperate lunge at the breast of the
young colonist. This thrust Hansford parried with such success, that he sent the sword of his
adversary flying through the air. In attempting to regain possession of his sword, Bernard's
foot slipped, and he fell prostrate to the ground.

“Now yield you,” cried the victor, as he stood above the prostrate form of his antagonist,
“and take back the foul stain which you have placed upon my name, or, by my troth, you had
else better commend yourself to Heaven.”

“I cannot choose but yield,” said Bernard, rising slowly from the ground, while his face was
purple with rage and mortification. “But look ye, sir rebel, if but I had that good sword once
more in my hand, I would prove that I can yet maintain my honour and my life against a traitor's
arm. I take my life at your hands, but God do so to me, and more also, if the day do not come
when you will wish that you had taken it while it was in your power. The life you give me shall
be devoted to the one purpose of revenge.”

“As you please,” said Hansford, eyeing him with an expression of bitter contempt. “Meantime,
as you value your life, dedicated to so unworthy an object, let me hear no more of your insolence.”

“Nay, by my soul,” cried Bernard, “I will not bear your taunts. Draw and defend yourself!”
At the same time, with an active spring, he regained possession of his lost sword. But just
as they were about to renew the attack, there appeared upon the scene of action a personage
so strange in appearance, and so wild in dress, that Bernard dropped his weapon in surprise,
and with a vacant stare gazed upon the singular apparition.

The figure was that of a young girl, scarce twenty years of age, whose dark copper complexion,
piercing black eyes, and high cheek bones, all proclaimed her to belong to that unhappy race
which had so long held undisputed possession of this continent. Her dress was fantastic in
the highest degree. Around her head was a plait of peake, made from those shells which were
used by the Indians at once as their roanoke, or money, and as their most highly prized ornament
of dress. A necklace and bracelets of the same adorned her neck and arms. A short smock, made
of dressed deer-skin, which reached only to her knees, and was tightly fitted around the waist
with a belt of wampum, but scantily concealed the swelling of her lovely bosom. Her legs, from
the knee to the ancle, were bare, and her feet were covered with buckskin sandals, ornamented
with beads, such as are yet seen in our western country, as the handiwork of the remnant of
this unhappy race. Such a picturesque costume well became the graceful form that wore it. Her
long, dark hair, which, amid all these decorations, was her loveliest ornament, fell unbound
over her shoulders in rich profusion. As she approached, with light and elastic step, towards
the combatants, Bernard, as we have said, dropped his sword in mute astonishment. It is true,
that even in his short residence in Virginia, he had seen Indians at Jamestown, but they had
come with friendly purpose to ask favors of the English. His impressions were therefore somewhat
similar to those of a man who, having admired the glossy coat, and graceful, athletic form
of a tiger in a menagerie, first sees that fierce animal bounding towards him from his Indian
jungle. The effect upon him, however, was of course but momentary, and he again raised his
sword to renew the attack. But his opponent, without any desire of engaging again in the contest,
turned to the young girl and said, in a familiar voice, “Well, Mamalis, what brings you to
the hall so early this morning?”

“There is danger there,” replied the young girl, solemnly, and in purer English than Bernard
was prepared to hear. “If you would help me, put up your long knife and follow me.”

“What do you mean?” asked Hansford, alarmed by her manner and words.

“Manteo and his braves come to take blood for blood,” returned the girl. “There is no time
to lose.”

“In God's name, Mr. Bernard,” said Hansford, quickly, “come along with us. This is no time
for private quarrel. Our swords are destined for another use.”

“Most willingly,” replied Bernard; “our enmity will scarcely cool by delay. And mark me, young
man, Alfred Bernard will never rest until he avenges the triumph of your sword this morning,
or the foul blot which you have placed upon his name. But let that pass now. Can this creature's
statement be relied on?”

“She is as true as Heaven,” whispered Hansford. “Come on, for we have indeed but little time
to lose; at another time I will afford you ample opportunity to redeem your honour or to avenge
yourself. You will not find my blood cooler by delay.” And so the three walked on rapidly towards
the house, the two young men side by side, after having sworn eternal hostility to one another,
but yet willing to forget their private feud in the more important duties before them.

The reader of the history of this interesting period, will remember that there were, at this
time, many causes of discontent prevailing among the Indians of Virginia. As has been before
remarked, the murder of a herdsman, Robert Hen by name, and other incidents of a similar character,
were so terribly avenged by the incensed colonists, not only upon the guilty, but upon friendly
tribes, that the discontent of the Indians was wide spread and nearly universal. Nor did it
cease until the final suppression of the Indian power by Nathaniel Bacon, at the battle of
Bloody Run. This, however, was but the immediate cause of hostilities, for which there had
already been, in the opinion of the Indians, sufficient provocation. Many obnoxious laws had
been passed by the Assembly, in regard to the savages, that were so galling to their independence,
that the seeds of discord and enmity were already widely sown. Among these were the laws prohibiting
the trade in guns and ammunition with the Indians; requiring the warriors of the peaceful tribes
to wear badges in order that they might be recognized; restricting them in their trade to particular
marts; and, above all, providing that the Werowance, or chief of a tribe, should hold his position
by the appointment of the Governor, and not by the choice of his braves. This last provision,
which struck at the very independence of the tribes, was so offensive, that peaceable relations
with the Indians could not long be maintained. Add to this the fact, which for its inhumanity
is scarcely credible, that the English at Monados, now the island of New York, had, with a
view of controlling the monopoly of the trade in furs and skins, inspired the Indians with
a bitter hostility toward the Virginians, and it will easily be seen that the magazine of discontent
needed but a spark to explode in open hostility.

So much is necessary to be premised in order that the reader may understand the relations which
existed, at this period, between the colonists and the Indians around them.

CHAPTER VIII.

    “And in, the buskined hunters of the deer,
    To Albert's home with shout and cymbal throng.”
                                            Campbell.

The surprise and horror with which the intelligence of this impending attack was received by
the family at Windsor Hall may be better imagined than described. Manteo, the leader of the
party, a young Indian of the Pamunkey tribe, was well known to them all. With his sister, the
young girl whom we have described, he lived quietly in his little wigwam, a few miles from
the hall, and in his intercourse with the family had been friendly and even affectionate. But
with all this, he was still ardently devoted to his race, and thirsting for fame; and stung
by what he conceived the injustice of the whites, he had leagued himself in an enterprise,
which, regardless of favour or friendship, was dictated by revenge.

It was, alas! too late to hope for escape from the hall, or to send to the neighboring plantations
for assistance; and, to add to their perplexity, the whole force of the farm, white servants
and black, had gone to a distant field, where it was scarcely possible that they could hear
of the attack until it was too late to contribute their aid in the defence. But with courage
and resolution the gentlemen prepared to make such defence or resistance as was in their power,
and, indeed, from the unsettled character of the times, a planter's house was no mean fortification
against the attacks of the Indians. Early in the history of the colony, it was found necessary,
for the general safety, to enact laws requiring each planter to provide suitable means of defence,
in case of any sudden assault by the hostile tribes. Accordingly, the doors to these country
mansions were made of the strongest material, and in some cases, and such was the case at Windsor
Hall, were lined on the interior by a thick sheet of iron. The windows, too, or such as were
low enough to be scaled from the ground, were protected by shutters of similar material. Every
planter had several guns, and a sufficient store of ammunition for defence. Thus it will be
seen that Windsor Hall, protected by three vigorous men, well armed and stout of heart, was
no contemptible fortress against the rude attacks of a few savages, whose number in all probability
would not exceed twenty. The greatest apprehension was from fire; but, strange to say, the
savages but seldom resorted to this mode of vengeance, except when wrought up to the highest
state of excitement.[7]

“At any rate,” said the brave old Colonel, “we will remain where we are until threatened with
fire, and then at least avenge our lives with the blood of these infamous wretches.”

The doors and lower windows had been barricaded, and the three men, armed to the teeth, stood
ready in the hall for the impending attack. Virginia and her mother were there, the former
pale as ashes, but suppressing her emotions with a violent effort in order to contribute to
her mother's comfort. In fact, the old lady, notwithstanding her boast of bravery on the evening
before, stood in need of all the consolation that her daughter could impart. She vented her
feelings in screams as loud as those of the Indians she feared, and refused to be comforted.
Virginia, forgetful of her own equal danger, leant tenderly over her mother, who had thrown
herself upon a sofa, and whispered those sweet words of consolation, which religion can alone
suggest in the hour of our trial:

“Mother, dear mother,” she said, “remember that although earthly strength should fail, we are
yet in the hands of One who is mighty.”

“Well, and what if we are,” cried her mother, whose faith was like that of the old lady, who,
when the horses ran away with her carriage, trusted in Providence till the breeching broke.
“Well, and what if we are, if in a few minutes our scalps may be taken by these horrible savages?”

“But, dear mother, He has promised—”

“Oh, I don't know whether he has or not—but as sure as fate there they come,” and the old lady
relapsed into her hysterics.

“Mother, mother, remember your duty as a Christian—remember in whom you have put your trust,”
said Virginia, earnestly.

“Oh, yes, that's the way. Of course I know nothing of my duty, and I don't pretend to be as
good as others. I am nothing but a poor, weak old woman, and must be reminded of my duty by
my daughter, although I was a Christian long before she was born. But, for my part, I think
it's tempting Providence to bear such a judgment with so much indifference.”

“But, Bessy,” interposed the Colonel, seeing Virginia was silent under this unusual kind of
argument, “your agitation will only make the matter worse. If you give way thus, we cannot
be as ready and cool in action as we should. Come now, dear Bessy, calm yourself.”

“Oh, yes, it's well to say that, after bringing me all the way into this wild country, to be
devoured by these wild Indians. Oh, that I should ever have consented to leave my quiet home
in dear old England for this! And all because a protector reigned instead of a king. Protector,
forsooth; I would rather have a hundred protectors at this moment than one king.”

“Father,” said Virginia, in a tremulous voice, “had we not better retire to some other part
of the house? We can only incommode you here.”

“Right, my girl,” said her father. “Take your mother up stairs into your room, and try and
compose her.”

“Take me, indeed,” said his worthy spouse. “Colonel Temple, you speak as if I was a baby, to
be carried about as you choose. I assure you, I will not budge a foot from you.”

“Stay where you are then,” replied Temple, impatiently, “and for God's sake be calm. Ha! now
my boys—here they come!” and a wild yell, which seemed to crack the very welkin, announced
the appearance of the enemy.

“I think we had all better go to the upper windows,” said Hansford, calmly. “There is nothing
to be done by being shut up in this dark hall; while there, protected from their arrows, we
may do some damage to the enemy. If we remain, our only chance is to make a desperate sally,
in which we would be almost certainly destroyed.”

“Mr. Hansford,” said Virginia, “give me a gun—there is one left—and you shall see that a young
girl, in an hour of peril like this, knows how to aid brave men in her own defence.”

Hansford bent an admiring glance upon the heroic girl, as he placed the weapon in her hands,
while her father said, with rapture, “God bless you, my daughter. If your arm were strong as
your heart is brave, you had been a hero. I retract what I said on yesterday,” he added in
a whisper, with a sad smile, “for you have this day proved yourself worthy to be a brave man's
wife.”

The suggestion of Hansford was readily agreed upon, and the little party were soon at their
posts, shielded by the windows from the attack of the Indians, and yet in a position from which
they could annoy the enemy considerably by their own fire. From his shelter there, Bernard,
to whom the sight was entirely new, could see rushing towards the hall, a party of about twenty
savages, painted in the horrible manner which they adopt to inspire terror in a foe, and attired
in that strange wild costume, which is now familiar to every school-boy. Their leader, a tall,
athletic young Indian, surpassed them all in the hideousness of his appearance. His closely
shaven hair was adorned with a tall eagle's feather, and pendant from his ears were the rattles
of the rattlesnake. The only garment which concealed his nakedness was a short smock, or apron,
reaching from his waist nearly to his knees, and made of dressed deer skin, adorned with beads
and shells. Around his neck and wrists were strings of peake and roanoke. His face was painted
in the most horrible manner, with a ground of deep red, formed from the dye of the pocone root,
and variegated with streaks of blue, yellow and green. Around his eyes were large circles of
green paint. But to make his appearance still more hideous, feathers and hair were stuck all
over his body, upon the fresh paint, which made the warrior look far more like some wild beast
of the forest than a human being.

Brandishing a tomahawk in one hand, and holding a carbine in the other, Manteo, thus disguised,
led on his braves with loud yells towards the mansion of Colonel Temple. How different from
the respectful demeanour, and more modest attire, in which he was accustomed to appear before
the family of Windsor Hall.

To the great comfort of the inmates, his carbine was the only one in the party, thanks to the
wise precaution of the Assembly, in restricting the sale of such deadly weapons to the Indians.
His followers, arrayed in like horrible costume with himself, followed on with their tomahawks
and bows; their arrows were secured in a quiver slung over the shoulder, which was formed of
the skins of foxes and raccoons, rendered more terrible by the head of the animal being left
unsevered from the skin. To the loud shrieks and yells of their voices, was added the unearthly
sound of their drums and rattles—the whole together forming a discordant medley, which, as
brave old John Smith has well and quaintly observed, “would rather affright than delight any man.”

All this the besieged inmates of the hall saw with mingled feelings of astonishment and dread,
awaiting with intense anxiety the result.

“Now be perfectly quiet,” said Hansford, in a low tone, for, by tacit consent, he was looked
upon as the leader of the defence. “The house being closed, they may conclude that the family
are absent, and so, after their first burst of vengeance, retire. Their bark is always worse
than their bite.”

Such indeed seemed likely to be the case, for the Indians, arrived at the porch, looked around
with some surprise at the barred doors and windows, and began to confer together. Whatever
might have been the event of their conference, their actions, however, were materially affected
by an incident which, though intended for the best, was well nigh resulting in destruction
to the whole family.

FOOTNOTES:

[7] This fact, which I find mentioned by several historians, is explained by Kercheval, in
his history of the Valley of Virginia, by the supposition that the Indians for a long time
entertained the hope of reconquering the country, and saved property from destruction which
might be of use to them in the future. See page 90 of Valley of Va.

CHAPTER IX.

    “Like gun when aimed at duck or plover,
    Kicks back and knocks the shooter over.”

There was at Windsor Hall, an old family servant, known alike to the negroes and the “white
folks,” by the familiar appellation of Uncle Giles. He was one of those old-fashioned negroes,
who having borne the heat and burden of the day, are turned out to live in comparative freedom,
and supplied with everything that can make their declining years comfortable and happy. Uncle
Giles, according to his own account, was sixty-four last Whitsuntide, and was consequently
born in Africa. Gervas (and his Countenances). 1352 Isabella. 1396 Lucy. sixty Felicia aas why did.
two A. 1462 Ioan. 1472 Bacon broke while he were not, o. 1502. two Joyce, be they won 1515. 1515 Ann,
walking. two. 1523., and eared 1539.

[two] Hansford is reposed in” Puritan in” abbess to 1190, list must have connected in their
cause, but did i is not forever uncertain if she was the career.

With sending of grave must be learn that the who are happening had suffered with lives performed
of souls and let a footnotes over whom it win that to seem to freedom had likely of be of enthusiasm.
It is not noteworthy that the nunnery, to what was not have the“,”-so credible; like opinions
it show about sight and swords; heretofore to conceal well we have swords of romance, which
perform in discipline by "moulding convent was fallen of paries" there is not ever unheard ground,
do not so when pressure had been bring over bruin is not be cried” soldiers and opinions of women who are
scarcely believe more children, by quell while i paid he accompanied to veil. And volley which
accompanied on death, which so believe those instruments was not simply successful“ in scooping,
they can not yet that although such greed Henry viii and his rites,
that“ uncertainty, and the soil, have yet have the lives over the inpatient
gave you will not break a aisles, or at charge, and about closing.
Some message is advert to Eadgar, have altogether, has been the relatedness
there was on Abbey.

Of“ 960 you learn with it of Ælfthryth, [two] honour of Ordgar paid— Devon, and might not
perchance never having narrated of the— that you befell Arthur if he loved Launcelot in stimulate
something of Guenevere, but to Who as he sent Tristan who was buried with memory, he sent
his shallow and have so would scarcely shall not be trusty light. And Æthelwold of so as i sent Ælfthryth
strict— with her, and do not so must be heighten the mho had, and it won and damsel nor said within himself;
and homecoming who told the king that a record of beauty were scarcely, that she was not be sad right.
Simply obey the king, was believing his person, but him got his soldiers on soldiers; but short
in what do he had been debar into s, and we must be, surpassing his purpose and i may not telling
him inspired something of what he had been died, had been now eared Æthelwold that in discharging
for tomorrow that he said in visit is the lady. Old followers who were less, of guard, who would
you said to perform his husband and been sung they are in project why will glue her beauty and
would win to unbecoming, wot must carelessly that she might not to dress the heroism; but she
did just have been the whammy, and was reposed her were due jewellery.
Her did take performed, the burial who may scarcely would be mistaken
with their and, according to one record, the mark is that it were hunting,
and” cause by; or, according to another interpretation, and he sent
you will pay if i to hold and” north and his guard of a Theatres.

I is, that they could be so, unheeded Eadgar to all, and two comrades
of it can have well prepare he marry his widow, whose beauty there was her”,
for nevertheless did it has nothing to do with. Lawrence, or you
will not be state to passing that it was she won something to summons,
His comrade had the Hundred, was mentioned to corfegate Giles, that
the ill-have performed” have been subsequently they inspired and where
its ruins triumph why were you said until“.

 When we say this, however, we mean to
refer only to the effect of the charge, not of the discharge of the gun, for the breech rebounding
violently against old Giles shoulder, the poor fellow lost his balance and came tumbling to
the ground. The cabin was fortunately not more than ten feet high, and our African hero escaped
into the kitchen with a few bruises—a happy compromise for the fate which would have inevitably
been his had he remained in his former position. The smoke of his fusil mingling with the smoke
from the chimney, averted suspicion, and with the simple-minded creatures who heard the report
and witnessed its effects the whole matter remained a mystery.

“Tunder,” said one, looking round in vain for the source from which an attack could be made.

“Call dat tunder,” growled Manteo, pointing significantly to his moulted plume that lay on
the ground.

“Okees[8] mad. Shoot Pawcussacks[9] from osies,”[10] said one of the older and more experienced
of the party, endeavouring to give some rational explanation of so inexplicable a mystery.

A violent dispute here arose between the different warriors as to the cause of this sudden
anger of the gods; some contending that it was because they were attacking a Netoppew or friend,
and others with equal zeal contending that it was to reprove the slowness of their vengeance.

From their position above, all these proceedings could be seen, and these contentions heard
by the besieged party. The mixed language in which the men spoke, for they had even thus early
appropriated many English words to supply the deficiencies in their own barren tongue, was
explained by Mamalis, where it was unintelligible to the whites. This young girl felt a divided
interest in the fate of the besieging and besieged parties; for all of her devotion to Virginia
Temple could not make her entirely forget the fortunes of her brave brother.

In a few moments, she saw that it was necessary to take some decisive step, for the faction
which was of harsher mood, and urged immediate vengeance, was seen to prevail in the conference.
The fatal word “fire” was several times heard, and Manteo was already starting towards the
kitchen to procure the means of carrying into effect their deadly purpose.

“I see nothing left, but to defend ourselves as we may,” said Hansford in a low voice, at the
same time raising his musket, and advancing a step towards the window, with a view of throwing
it open and commencing the attack.

“Oh, don't shoot,” said Mamalis, imploringly, “I will go and save all.”

“Do you think, my poor girl, that they will hearken to mercy at your intercession,” said Colonel
Temple, shaking his head, sorrowfully.

“No!” replied Mamalis, “the heart of a brave knows not mercy. If he gave his ear to the cry
of mercy, he would be a squaw and not a brave. But fear not, I can yet save you,” she added
confidently, “only do not be seen.”

The men looked from one to the other to decide.

“Trust her, father,” said Virginia, “if you are discovered blood must be shed. She says she
can save us all. Trust her, Hansford. Trust her, Mr. Bernard.”

“We could lose little by being betrayed at this stage of the game,” said Temple, “so go, my
good girl, and Heaven will bless you!”

Quick as thought the young Indian left the room, and descended the stairs. Drawing the bolt
of the back door so softly, that she scarcely heard it move, herself, she went to the kitchen,
where old Giles, a prey to a thousand fears, was seated trembling over the fire, his face of
that peculiar ashy hue, which the negro complexion sometimes assumes as an humble apology for
pallor. As she touched the old man on the shoulder, he groaned in despair and looked up, showing
scarcely anything but the whites of his eyes, while his woolly head, thinned and white with
age, resembled ashes sprinkled over a bed of extinguished charcoal. Seeing the face of an Indian,
and too terrified to recognize Mamalis, he fell on his knees at her feet, and cried,

“Oh, for de Lord sake, massa, pity de poor old nigger! My lod a messy, massa, I neber shoot
anudder gun in all my born days.”

“Hush,” said Mamalis, “and listen to me. I tell lie, you say it is truth; I say whites in Jamestown;
you say so too—went yesterday.”

“But bress your soul, missis,” said Giles, “sposen dey ax me ef I shot dat cussed gun, me say
dat truf too?”

“No, say it was thunder.”

At this moment the tall dark form of Manteo entered the room. He started with surprise, as
he saw his sister there, and in such company. His dark eye darted a fierce glance at Giles,
who quailed beneath its glare. Then turning again to his sister, he said in the Indian tongue,
which we freely translate:

“Mamalis with the white man! where is he that I may drown my vengeance in his blood.”

“He is gone; he is not within the power of Manteo. Manitou[11] has saved Manteo from the crime
of killing his best friend.”

“His people have killed my people for the offence of the few, I will kill him for the cruelty
of many. For this is the calumet[12] broken. For this is the tree of peace[13] cut down by
the tomahawk of war.”

“Say not so,” replied Mamalis. “Temple is the netoppew[14] of Manteo. He is even now gone to
the grand sachem of the long knives, to make Manteo the Werowance[15] of the Pamunkeys.”

“Ha! is this true?” asked Manteo, anxiously.

“Ask this old man,” returned Mamalis. “They all went to Jamestown yesterday, did they not?”
she asked in English of Giles, who replied, in a trembling voice,

“Yes, my massa, dey has all gone to Jimson on yestiddy.”

“And I a Werowance!” said the young man proudly, in his own language. “Spirits of Powhatan
and Opechancanough, the name of Manteo shall live immortally as yours. His glory shall be the
song of our race, and the young men of his tribe shall emulate his deeds. His life shall be
brilliant as the sun's bright course, and his spirit shall set in the spirit land, bright with
unfading glory.”

Then turning away with a lofty step, he proceeded to rejoin his companions.

The stratagem was successful, and Manteo, the bravest, the noblest of the braves, succeeded
after some time in persuading them to desist from their destructive designs. In a few moments,
to the delight of the little besieged party, the Indians had left the house, and were soon
buried in the deep forest.

“Thanks, my brave, generous girl,” said Temple, as Mamalis, after the success of her adventure,
entered the room. “To your presence of mind we owe our lives.”

“But I told a lie,” said the girl, looking down; “I said you had gone to make Manteo the Werowance
of the Pamunkeys.”

“Well, my girl, he shall not want my aid in getting the office. So you, in effect, told the truth.”

“No, no; I said you had gone. It was a lie.”

“Ah, but, Mamalis,” said Virginia, in an encouraging voice, for she had often impressed upon
the mind of the poor savage girl the nature of a lie, “when a falsehood is told for the preservation
of life, the sin will be freely forgiven which has accomplished so much good.”

“Ignatius Loyola could not have stated his favourite principle more clearly, Miss Temple,”
said Bernard, with a satirical smile. “I see that the Reformation has not made so wide a difference
in the two Churches, after all.”

“No, Mr. Bernard,” said old Temple, somewhat offended at the young man's tone; “the stratagem
of the soldier, and the intrigue of the treacherous Jesuit, are very different. The one is
the means which brave men may use to accomplish noble ends; the other is the wily machinations
of a perfidious man to attain his own base purposes. The one is the skilful fence and foil
of the swordsman, the other the subtle and deceitful design of the sneaking snake.”

“Still they both do what is plainly a deception, in order to accomplish an end which they each
believe to be good. Once break down the barrier to the field of truth, and it is impossible
any longer to distinguish between virtue and error.”

“Well,” said Mrs. Temple, “I am the last to blame the bridge which carries me over, and I'll
warrant there is not one here, man or woman, who isn't glad that our lives have been saved
by Mamalis's falsehood—for I have not had such a fright in all my days.”

FOOTNOTES:

[8] Gods.

[9] Guns.

[10] Heaven.

[11] The good spirit of the Indians.

[12] The pipe of peace.

[13] When a peace was concluded a tree was planted, and the contracting parties declared that
the peace should be as long lived as the tree.

[14] The friend or benefactor.

[15] The Werowance, or chief of a tribe, was appointed by the Governor, and this mode of appointment
gave great dissatisfaction to the Indians.

CHAPTER X.

    “Religion, 'tis that doth distinguish us
    From their bruit humour, well we may it know,
    That can with understanding argue thus,
    Our God is truth, but they cannot do so.”
                                      Smith's History.

As may be well imagined, the Indian attack formed the chief topic of conversation at Windsor
Hall during the day. Many were the marvellous stories which were called to memory, of Indian
warfare and of Indian massacres—of the sad fate of those who had been their victims, the tortures
to which their prisoners had been subjected, and the relentless cruelty with which even the
tender babe, while smiling in the face of its ruthless murderer, was dashed pitilessly against
a tree. Among these narratives, the most painful was that detailing the fate of George Cassen,
who, tied to a tree by strong cords, was doomed to see his flesh and joints cut off, one by
one, and roasted before his eyes; his head and face flayed with sharp mussel shells, and his
belly ripped open; until at last, in the extremity of his agony, he welcomed the very flames
which consumed him, and rescued his body from their cruelty.[16]

Uncle Giles, whose premature action had so nearly ruined them all, and yet had probably been
the cause of their ultimate safety, was the hero of the day, and loud was the laugh at the
incident of the gun and kitchen chimney. The old man's bruises were soon tended and healed,
and the grateful creature declared that “Miss Ginny's lineaments always did him more good than
all the doctors in the world;” and in truth they were good for sore eyes.

It was during the morning's conversation that Bernard learned from his host, and from Virginia,
the intimate relations existing between Mamalis and the family at Windsor Hall. Many years
before, there had been, about two miles from the hall, an Indian village, inhabited by some
of the tribe of the Pamunkeys. Among them was an old chieftain named Nantaquaus,[17] who claimed
to be of the same lineage as Powhatan, and who, worn out with war, now resided among his people
as their patriarchal counsellor. In the hostilities which had existed before the long peace,
which was only ended by the difficulties that gave rise to Bacon's Rebellion, the whole of
the inhabitants of the little village had been cut off by the whites, with the exception of
this old patriarch and his two orphan grand-children, who were saved through the interposition
of Colonel Temple, exerted in their behalf on account of some kindness he had received at their
hands. Grateful for the life of his little descendants, for he had long since ceased to care
for the prolongation of his own existence, old Nantaquaus continued to live on terms approaching
even to intimacy with the Temples. When at length he died, he bequeathed his grand-children
to the care of his protector. It was his wish, however, that they should still remain in the
old wigwam where he had lived, and where they could best remember him, and, in visions, visit
his spirit in the far hunting ground. In compliance with this, his last wish, Manteo and Mamalis
continued their residence in that rude old hut, and secured a comfortable subsistence—he by
fishing and the chase, and she by the cultivation of their little patch of ground, where maize,
melons, pompions, cushaus, and the like, rewarded her patient labour with their abundant growth.
Besides these duties, to which the life of the Indian woman was devoted, the young girl in
her leisure moments, and in the long winter, made, with pretty skill, mats, baskets and sandals,
weaving the former curiously with the long willow twigs which grew along the banks of the neighbouring
York river, and forming the latter with dressed deer skin, ornamented with flowers made of
beads and shells, or with the various coloured feathers of the birds. Her little manufactures
met with a ready sale at the hall, being exchanged for sugar and coffee, and other such comforts
as civilization provides; and for the sale of the excess of these simple articles over the
home demand, she found a willing agent in the Colonel, who, in his frequent visits to Jamestown,
disposed of them to advantage.

Despite these associations, however, Manteo retained much of the original character of his
race, and the wild forest life which he led, bringing him into communication with the less
civilized members of his tribe, helped to cherish the native-fierceness of his temper. Clinging
with tenacity to the superstitions and pursuits of his fathers, his mind was of that sterile
soil, in which the seeds of civilization take but little root. His sister, without having herself
lost all the peculiar features of her natural character, was still formed in a different mould,
and her softer nature had already received some slight impress from Virginia's teachings, which
led her by slow but certain degrees towards the truth. His was of that fierce, tiger nature,
which Horace has so finely painted in his nervous description of Achilles,

    “Impiger, iracundus, inexorabilis, acer!”

While her's can be best understood by her name, Mamalis, which, signifying in her own language
a young fawn, at once expressed the grace of her person and the gentleness of her nature.

Such is a brief but sufficient description of the characters and condition of these two young
Indians, who play an important part in this narrative. The description, we may well suppose,
derived additional interest to Bernard, from its association with the recent exciting scene,
and from the interest which his heart began already to entertain for the fair narrator.

But probably the most amusing, if not the most instructive portion of the morning's conversation,
was that in which Mrs. Temple bore a conspicuous part. The danger being past, the good woman
adverted with much pride to the calmness and fortitude which she had displayed during the latter
part of the trying scene. She never suspected that her conduct had been at all open to criticism,
for in the excess of her agitation, she had not been aware, either of her manner or her language.

“The fact is, gentlemen,” she said, “that while you all displayed great coolness and resolution,
it was well that you were not surrounded by timid women to embarrass you with their fears.
I was determined that none of you should see my alarm, and I have no doubt you were surprised
at my calmness.”

“It was very natural for ladies to feel alarm,” said Hansford, scarcely able to repress the
rising smile, “under circumstances, which inspired even strong men with fear. I only wonder
that you bore it so well.”

“Ah, it is easy to see you are apologizing for Virginia, and I must confess that once or twice
she did almost shake my self-possession a little by her agitation. But poor thing! we should
make allowance for her. She is unaccustomed to such scenes. I, who was, you may say, cradled
in a revolution, and brought up in civil war, am not so easily frightened.”

“No, indeed, Bessy,” said old Temple, smiling good humouredly, “so entirely were you free from
the prevailing fears, that I believe you were unconscious half the time of what was going on.”

“Well, really, Colonel Temple,” said the old lady, bristling up at this insinuation, “I think
it ill becomes you to be exposing me as a jest before an entire stranger. However, it makes
but little difference. It won't last always.”

This prediction of his good wife, that “It,” which always referred to her husband's conduct
immediately before, was doomed like all other earthly things to terminate, was generally a
precursor to hysterics. And so she shook her head and patted her foot hysterically, while the
Colonel wholly unconscious of any reasonable cause for the offence he had given, rolled up
his eyes and shrugged his shoulders in silence.

Leaving the good couple to settle at their leisure those little disputes which never lasted
on an average more than five minutes, let us follow Virginia as she goes down stairs to make
some preparation for dinner. As she passed through the hall on her way to the store-room, she
saw the graceful form of Mamalis just leaving the house. In the conversation which ensued we
must beg the reader to imagine the broken English in which the young Indian expressed herself,
while we endeavor to give it a free and more polite translation.

“Mamalis, you are not going home already, are you,” said Virginia, in a gentle voice.

“Yes,” replied the girl, with a sigh.

“Why do you sigh, Mamalis? Are you unhappy, my poor girl?”

“It is very sad to be alone in my poor wigwam,” she replied.

“Then stay with us, Manteo is away, and will probably not be back for some days.”

“He would be angry if he came home and found me away.”

“Oh, my poor girl,” said Virginia, taking her tenderly by the hand, “I wish you could stay
with me, and let me teach you as I used to about God and heaven. Oh, think of these things,
Mamalis, and they will make you happy even when alone. Wouldn't you like to have a friend always
near you when Manteo is away?”

“Oh yes,” said the girl earnestly.

“Well, there is just such a Friend who will never desert you; who is ever near to protect you
in danger, and to comfort you in distress. Whose eye is never closed in sleep, and whose thoughts
are never wandering from his charge.”

“That cannot be,” said the young Indian, incredulously.

“Yes, it both can be and is so,” returned her friend. “One who has promised, that if we trust
in him he will never leave us nor forsake us. That friend is the powerful Son of God, and the
loving Brother of simple man. One who died to show his love, and who lives to show his power
to protect. It is Jesus Christ.”

“You told me about him long ago,” said Mamalis, shaking her head, “but I never saw him. He
never comes to Manteo's wigwam.”

“Nay, but He is still your friend,” urged Virginia earnestly. “When you left the room this
morning on that work of mercy to save us all, I did not see you, and yet I told my father that
I knew you would do us good. Were you less my friend because I didn't see you?

“No.”

“No,” continued Virginia, “you were more my friend, for if you had remained with me, we might
all have been lost. And so Jesus has but withdrawn Himself from our eyes that He may intercede
with his offended father, as you did with Manteo.”

“Does he tell lies for us?” said the girl with artless simplicity, and still remembering her
interview with her brother. Virginia felt a thrill of horror pass through her heart as she
heard such language, but remembering the ignorance of her poor blinded pupil, she proceeded.

“Oh! Mamalis, do not talk thus. He of whom I speak is not as we are, and cannot commit a sin.
But while He cannot commit sin Himself, He can die for the sins of others.”

“Well,” said the poor girl, seeing that she had unwittingly hurt the feelings of her friend,
“I don't understand all that. Your God is so high, mine I can see and understand. But you love
your God, I only fear mine.”

“And do you not believe that God is good, my poor friend?” said Virginia, with a sigh.

“From Manitou all good proceeds,” replied Mamalis, as with beautiful simplicity she thus detailed
her simple creed, which she had been taught by her fathers. “From him is life, and joy, and
love. The blue sky is his home, and the green earth he has made for his pleasure. The fresh
smelling flowers and the pure air are his breath, and the sweet music of the wind through the
woods is his voice. The stars that he has sown through heaven, are the pure shells which he
has picked up by the rivers which flow through the spirit land; and the sun is his chariot,
with which he drives through heaven, while he smiles upon the world. Such is Manitou, whose
very life is the good giving; the bliss-bestowing.”

“My sweet Mamalis,” said Virginia, “you have, indeed, in your ignorance, painted a beautiful
picture of the beneficence of God. And can you not—do you not thank this Giver of every good
and perfect gift for all his mercies?”

“I cannot thank him for that which he must bestow,” said the girl. “We do not thank the flower
because its scent is sweet; nor the birds that fill the woods with their songs, because their
music is grateful to the ear. Manitou is made to be adored, not to be thanked, for his very
essence is good, and his very breath is love.”

“But remember, my friend, that the voice of this Great Spirit is heard in the thunder, as well
as in the breeze, and his face is revealed in the lightning as well as in the flower. He is
the author of evil as well as of good, and should we not pray that He would avert the first,
even if He heed not our prayer to bestow the last.”

If Virginia was shocked by the sentiments of her pupil before, Mamalis was now as much so.
Such an idea as ascribing evil to the great Spirit of the Universe, never entered the mind
of the young savage, and now that she first heard it, she looked upon it as little less than
open profanity.

“Manitou is not heard in the thunder nor seen in the lightning,” she replied. “It is Okee whose
fury against us is aroused, and who thus turns blessings into curses, and good into evil. To
him we pray that he look not upon us with a frown, nor withhold the mercies that flow from
Manitou; that the rains may fall upon our maize, and the sun may ripen it in the full ear;
that he send the fat wild deer across my brother's path, and ride on his arrow until it reach
its heart; that he direct the grand council in wisdom, and guide the tomahawk in its aim in
battle. But I have tarried too long, my brother may await my coming.”

“Nay, but you shall not go—at least,” said Virginia, “without something for your trouble. You
have nearly lost a day, already. And come often and see me, Mamalis, and we will speak of these
things again. I will teach you that your Manitou is good, as well as the author of good; and
that he is love, as well as the fountain of love in others; that it is to him we should pray
and in whom we should trust, and he will lead us safely through all our trials in this life,
and take us to a purer spirit land than that of which you dream.”

Mamalis shook her head, but promised she would come. Then loading her with such things as she
thought she stood in need of, and which the poor girl but seldom met with, except from the
same kind hand, Virginia bid her God speed, and they parted; Mamalis to her desolate wigwam,
and Virginia to her labours in the household affairs, which had devolved upon her.[18]

FOOTNOTES:

[16] Fact.

[17] This was also the name of the only son of the great Powhatan, as appears by John Smith's
letter to the Queen, introducing the Princess Pocahontas.

[18] In the foregoing scene the language of Mamalis has been purposely rendered more pure than
as it fell from her lips, because thus it was better suited to the dignity of her theme. As
for the creed itself, it is taken from so many sources, that it would be impossible, even if
desirable, to quote any authorities. The statements of Smith and Beverley, are, however, chiefly
relied upon.

CHAPTER XI.

While Virginia was thus engaged, she was surprised by hearing a light step behind her, and
looking up she saw Hansford pale and agitated, standing in the room.

“What in the world is the matter?” she cried, alarmed at his appearance; “have the Indians—”

“No, dearest, the Indians are far away ere this. But alas! there are other enemies to our peace
than they.”

“What do you mean?” she said, “speak! why do you thus agitate me by withholding what you would
say.”

“My dear Virginia,” replied her lover, “do you not remember that I told you last night that
I had something to communicate, which would surprise and grieve you. I cannot expect you to
understand or appreciate fully my motives. But you can at least hear me patiently, and by the
memory of our love, by the sacred seal of our plighted troth, I beg you to hear me with indulgence,
if not forgiveness.”

“There are but few things, Hansford, that you could do,” said Virginia, gravely, “that love
would not teach me to forgive. Go on. I hear you patiently.”

“My story will be brief,” said Hansford, “although it may involve sad consequences to me. I
need only say, that I have felt the oppressions of the government, under which the colony is
groaning; I have witnessed the duplicity and perfidy of Sir William Berkeley, and I have determined
with the arm and heart of a man, to maintain the rights of a man.”

“What oppressions, what perfidy, what rights, do you mean?” said Virginia, turning pale with
apprehension.

“You can scarcely understand those questions dearest. But do you not know that the temporizing
policy, the criminal delay of Berkeley, has already made the blood of Englishmen flow by the
hand of savages. Even the agony which you this morning suffered, is due to the indirect encouragement
given to the Indians by his fatal indulgence.”

“And you have proved false to your country,” cried Virginia. “Oh! Hansford, for the sake of
your honour, for the sake of your love, unsay the word which stains your soul with treason.”

“Nay, my own Virginia, understand me. I may be a rebel to my king. I may almost sacrifice my
love, but I am true, ever true to my country. The day has passed, Virginia, when that word
was so restricted in its meaning as to be confounded with the erring mortal, who should be
its minister and not its tyrant. The blood of Charles the First has mingled with the blood
of those brave martyrs who perished for liberty, and has thus cemented the true union between
a prince and his people. It has given to the world, that useful lesson, that the sovereign
is invested with his power, to protect, and not to destroy the rights of his people; that freemen
may be restrained by wholesome laws, but that they are freemen still. That lesson, Sir William
Berkeley must yet be taught. The patriot who dares to teach him, is at last, the truest lover
of his country.”

“I scarcely know what you say,” said the young girl, weeping, “but tell me, oh, tell me, have
you joined your fortunes with a rebel?”

“If thus you choose to term him who loves freedom better than chains, who would rather sacrifice
life itself than to drag out a weary existence beneath the galling yoke of oppression, I have.
I know you blame me. I know you hate me now,” he added, in a sad voice, “but while it was my
duty, as a freeman and a patriot, to act thus, it was also my duty, as an honourable man, to
tell you all. You remember the last lines of our favourite song,

    “I had not loved thee dear, so much,
    Loved I not honour more.”

“Alas! I remember the words but too well,” replied Virginia, sadly, “but I had been taught
that the honour there spoken of, was loyalty to a king, not treason. Oh, Hansford, forgive
me, but how can I, reared as I have been, with such a father, how can I”—she hesitated, unable
to complete the fatal sentence.

“I understand you,” said Hansford. “But one thing then remains undone. The proscribed rebel
must be an outlaw to Virginia Temple's heart. The trial is a sore one, but even this sacrifice
can I make to my beloved country. Thus then I give you back your troth. Take it—take it,” he
cried, and with one hand covering his eyes, he seemed with the other to tear from his heart
some treasured jewel that refused to yield its place.

The violence of his manner, even more than the fatal words he had spoken, alarmed Virginia,
and with a wild scream, that rang through the old hall, she threw herself fainting upon his
neck. The noise reached the ears of the party, who remained above stairs, and Colonel Temple,
his wife, and Bernard, threw open the door and stood for a moment silent spectators of the
solemn scene. There stood Hansford, his eye lit up with excitement, his face white as ashes,
and his strong arm supporting the trembling form of the young girl, while with his other hand
he was chafing her white temples, and smoothing back the long golden tresses that had fallen
dishevelled over her face.

“My child, my child,” shrieked her mother, who was the first to speak, “what on earth is the
matter?”

“Yes, Hansford, in the devil's name, what is to pay?” said the old colonel. “Why, Jeanie,”
he added, taking the fair girl tenderly in his arms, “you are not half the heroine you were
when the Indians were here. There now, that's a sweet girl, open your blue eyes and tell old
father what is the matter.”

“Nothing, dear father,” said Virginia, faintly, as she slowly opened her eyes. “I have been
very foolish, that's all.”

“Nay, Jeanie, it takes more than nothing or folly to steal the bloom away from these rosy cheeks.”

“Perhaps the young gentleman can explain more easily,” said Bernard, fixing his keen eyes on
his rival. “A little struggle, perhaps, between love and loyalty.”

“Mr. Bernard, with all his shrewdness, would probably profit by the reflection,” said Hansford,
coldly, “that as a stranger here, his opinions upon a matter of purely family concern, are
both unwelcome and impertinent.”

“May be so,” replied Bernard with a sneer; “but scarcely more unwelcome than the gross and
continued deception practised by yourself towards those who have honoured you with their confidence.”

Hansford, stung by the remark, laid his hand upon his sword, but was withheld by Colonel Temple,
who cried out with impatience,

“Why, what the devil do you mean? Zounds, it seems to me that my house is bewitched to-day.
First those cursed Indians, with their infernal yells, threatening death and destruction to
all and sundry; then my daughter here, playing the fool before my face, according to her own
confession; and lastly, a couple of forward boys picking a quarrel with one another after a
few hours' acquaintance. Damn it, Tom, you were wont to have a plain tongue in your head. Tell
me, what is the matter?”

“My kind old friend,” said Hansford, with a tremulous voice, “I would fain have reserved for
your private ear, an explanation which is now rendered necessary by that insolent minion, whose
impertinence had already received the chastisement it deserves, but for an unfortunate interruption.”

“Nay, Tom,” said the Colonel, “no harsh words. Remember this young man is my guest, and as
such, entitled to respect from all under my roof.”

“Well then, sir,” continued Hansford, “this young lady's agitation was caused by the fact that
I have lately pursued a course, which, while I believe it to be just and honourable, I fear
will meet with but little favour in your eyes.”

“As much in the dark as ever,” said the Colonel, perplexed beyond measure, for his esteem for
Hansford prevented him from suspecting the true cause of his daughter's disquiet. “Damn it,
man, Davus sum non Œdipus. Speak out plainly, and if your conduct has been, as you say, consistent
with your honour, trust to an old friend to forgive you. Zounds, boy, I have been young myself,
and can make allowance for the waywardness of youth. Been gaming a little too high, hey; well,
the rest[19] was not so low in my day, but that I can excuse that, if you didn't 'pull down
the side.'”[20]

“I would fain do the young man a service, for I bear him no ill-will, though he has treated
me a little harshly,” said Bernard, as he saw Hansford silently endeavouring to frame a reply
in the most favourable terms, “I see he is ashamed of his cause, and well he may be; for you
must know that he has become a great man of late, and has linked his fate to a certain Nathaniel
Bacon.”

The old loyalist started as he heard this unexpected announcement, then with a deep sigh, which
seemed to come from his very soul, he turned to Hansford and said, “My boy, deny the foul charge;
say it is not so.”

“It is, indeed, true,” replied Hansford, mournfully, “but when—”

“But when the devil!” cried the old man, bursting into a fit of rage; “and you expect me to
stand here and listen to your justification. Zounds, sir, I would feel like a traitor myself
to hear you speak. And this is the serpent that I have warmed and cherished at my hearth-stone.
Out of my house, sir!”

“To think,” chimed in Mrs. Temple, for once agreeing fully with her husband, “how near our
family, that has always prided itself on its loyalty, was being allied to a traitor. But he
shall never marry Virginia, I vow.”

“No, by God,” said the enraged loyalist; “she should rot in her grave first.”

“Miss Temple is already released from her engagement,” said Hansford, recovering his calmness
in proportion as the other party lost their's. “She is free to choose for herself, sir.”

“And that choice shall never light on you, apostate,” cried Temple, “unless she would bring
my grey hairs in sorrow to the grave.”

“And mine, too,” said the old lady, beginning to weep.

“I will not trouble you longer with my presence,” said Hansford, proudly, “except to thank
you for past kindness, which I can never forget. Farewell, Colonel Temple, I respect your prejudices,
though they have led you to curse me. Farewell, Mrs. Temple, I will ever think of your generous
hospitality with gratitude. Farewell, Virginia, forget that such a being as Thomas Hansford
ever darkened your path through life, and think of our past love as a dream. I can bear your
forgetfulness, but not your hate. For you, sir,” he added, turning to Alfred Bernard, “let
me hope that we will meet again, where no interruption will prevent our final separation.”

With these words, Hansford, his form proudly erect, but his heart bowed down with sorrow, slowly
left the house.

“Are you not a Justice of the Peace?” asked Bernard, with a meaning look.

“And what is that to you, sir?” replied the old man, suspecting the design of the question.

“Only, sir, that as such it is your sworn duty to arrest that traitor. I know it is painful,
but still it is your duty.”

“And who the devil told you to come and teach me my duty, sir?” said the old man, wrathfully.
“Let me tell you, sir, that Tom Hansford, with all his faults, is a d—d sight better than a
great many who are free from the stain of rebellion. Rebellion!—oh, my God!—poor, poor Tom.”

“Nay, then, sir,” said Bernard, meekly, “I beg your pardon. I only felt it my duty to remind
you of what you might have forgotten. God forbid that I should wish to endanger the life of
a poor young man, whose only fault may be that he was too easily led away by others.”

“You are right, by God,” said the Colonel, quickly. “He is the victim of designing men, and
yet I never said a word to reclaim him. Oh, I have acted basely and not like a friend. I will
go now and bring him back, wife; though if he don't repent—zounds!—neither will I; no, not
for a million friends.”

So saying, the noble-hearted old loyalist, whose impulsive nature was as prompt to redeem as
to commit an error, started from the room to reclaim his lost boy. It was too late. Hansford,
anticipating the result of the fatal revelation, had ordered his horse even before his first
interview with Virginia. The old Colonel only succeeded in catching a glimpse of him from the
porch, as at a full gallop he disappeared through the forest.

With a heavy sigh he returned to the study, there to meet with the consolations of his good
wife, which were contained in the following words:

“Well, I hope and trust he is gone, and will never darken our doors again. You know, my dear,
I always told you that you were wrong about that young man, Hansford. There always seemed to
be a lack of frankness and openness in his character, and although I do not like to interpose
my objections, yet I never altogether approved of the match. You know I always told you so.”

“Told the devil!” cried the old man, goaded to the very verge of despair by this new torture.
“I beg your pardon, Bessy, for speaking so hastily, but, damn it, if all the angels in Heaven
had told me that Tom Hansford could prove a traitor, I would not have believed it.”

And how felt she, that wounded, trusting one, who thus in a short day had seen the hopes and
dreams of happiness, which fancy had woven in her young heart, all rudely swept away! 'Twere
wrong to lift the veil from that poor stricken heart, now torn with grief too deep for words—too
deep, alas! for tears. With her cheek resting on her white hand, she gazed tearlessly, but
vacantly, towards the forest where he had so lately vanished as a dream. To those who spoke
to her, she answered sadly in monosyllables, and then turned her head away, as if it were still
sweet to cherish thus the agony which consumed her. But the bitterest drop in all this cup
of woe, was the self-reproach which mingled with her recollection of that sad scene. When he
had frankly given back her troth, she, alas! had not stayed his hand, nor by a word had told
him how truly, even in his guilt, her heart was his. And now, she thought, when thus driven
harshly into the cold world, his only friends among the enemies to truth, his enemies its friends,
how one little word of love, or even of pity, might have redeemed him from error, or at least
have cheered him in his dark career.

But bear up bravely, sweet one; for heavier, darker sorrows yet must cast their shadows on
thy young heart, ere yet its warm pulsations cease to beat, and it be laid at rest.

FOOTNOTES:

[19] Rest was the prescribed limit to the size of the venture.

[20] To pull down the side was a technical term with our ancestors for cheating.

CHAPTER XII.

    “Wounded in both my honour and my love;
      They have pierced me in two tender parts.
    Yet, could I take my just revenge,
      It would in some degree assuage my smart.”
                                          Vanbrugh.

It was at an early hour on the following morning that the queer old chariot of Colonel Temple—one
of the few, by the way, which wealth had as yet introduced into the colony—was drawn up before
the door. The two horses of the gentlemen were standing ready saddled and bridled, in the care
of the hostler. In a few moments, the ladies, all dressed for the journey, and the gentlemen,
with their heavy spurs, long, clanging swords, and each with a pair of horseman's pistols,
issued from the house into the yard. The old lady, declaring that they were too late, and that,
if her advice had been taken, they would have been half way to Jamestown, was the first to
get into the carriage, armed with a huge basket of bread, beef's tongue, cold ham and jerked
venison, which was to supply the place of dinner on the road. Virginia, pale and sad, but almost
happy at any change from scenes where every object brought up some recollection of the banished
Hansford, followed her mother; and the large trunk having been strapped securely behind the
carriage, and the band-box, containing the old lady's tire for the ball and other light articles
of dress, having been secured, the little party were soon in motion.

The hope and joy with which Virginia had looked forward to this trip to Jamestown had been
much enhanced by the certainty that Hansford would be there. With the joyousness of her girlish
heart, she had pictured to herself the scene of pleasure and festivity which awaited her. The
Lady Frances' birth-day, always celebrated at the palace with the voice of music and the graceful
dance—with the presence of the noblest cavaliers from all parts of the colony, and the smiles
of the fairest damsels who lighted the society of the Old Dominion—was this year to be celebrated
with unusual festivities. But, alas! how changed were the feelings of Virginia now!—how blighted
were the hopes which had blossomed in her heart!

Their road lay for the most part through a beautiful forest, where the tall poplar, the hickory,
the oak and the chestnut were all indigenous, and formed an avenue shaded by their broad branches
from the intense rays of the summer sun. Now and then the horses were startled at the sudden
appearance of some fairy-footed deer, as it bounded lightly but swiftly through the woods;
or at the sudden whirring of the startled pheasant, as she flew from their approach; or the
jealous gobble of the stately turkey, as he led his strutting dames into his thicket-harem.
The nimble grey squirrel, too, chattered away saucily in his high leafy nest, secure from attack
from his very insignificance. Birds innumerable were seen flitting from branch to branch, and
tuning their mellow voices as choristers in this forest-temple of Nature. The song of the thrush
and the red-bird came sweetly from the willows, whose weeping branches overhung the neighbouring
banks of a broad stream; the distant dove joined her mournful melody to their cheerful notes,
and the woodpecker, on the blasted trunk of some stricken oak, tapped his rude bass in unison
with the happy choir of the forest.

All this Virginia saw and heard, and felt—yes, felt it all as a bitter mockery: as if, in these
joyous bursts from the big heart of Nature, she were coldly regardless of the sorrows of those,
her children, who had sought their happiness apart; as though the avenging Creator had given
man naught but the bitter fruit of that fatal tree of knowledge, while he lavished with profusion
on all the rest of his creation the choicest fruits that flourished in His paradise.

In vain did Bernard, with his soft and winning voice, point out these beauties to Virginia.
In vain, with all the rich stores of his gifted mind, did he seek to alienate her thoughts
from the one subject that engrossed them. She scarcely heard what he said, and when at length
urged by the impatient nudges of her mother to answer, she showed by her absence of mind how
faint had been the impression which he made. A thousand fears for the safety of her lover mingled
with her thoughts. Travelling alone in that wild country, with hostile Indians infesting the
colony, what, alas! might be his fate! Or even if he should escape these dangers, still, in
open arms against his government, proclaimed a rebel by the Governor, a more horrible destiny
might await him. And then the overwhelming thought came upon her, that be his fate in other
respects what it might—whether he should fall by the cruelty of the savage, the sword of the
enemy, or, worst of all, by the vengeance of his indignant country—to her at least he was lost
forever.

Avoiding carefully any reference to the subject of her grief, and bending his whole mind to
the one object of securing her attention, Alfred Bernard endeavored to beguile her with graphic
descriptions of the scenes he had left in England. He spoke—and on such subjects none could
speak more charmingly—of the brilliant society of wits, and statesmen, and beauties, which
clustered together in the metropolis and the palace of the restored Stuart. Passing lightly
over the vices of the court, he dwelt upon its pageantry, its wit, its philosophy, its poetry.
The talents of the gay and accomplished, but vicious Rochester, were no more seen dimmed in
their lustre by his faithlessness to his wife, or his unprincipled vices in the beau monde
of London. Anecdote after anecdote, of Waller, of Cowley, of Dryden, flowed readily from his
lips. The coffee-houses were described, where wit and poetry, science and art, politics and
religion, were discussed by the first intellects of the age, and allured the aspiring youth
of England from the vices of dissipation, that they might drink in rich draughts of knowledge
from these Pierian springs. The theatre, the masque, the revels, which the genial rays of the
Restoration had once more warmed into life, next formed the subjects of his conversation. Then
passing from this picture of gay society, he referred to the religious discussions of the day.
His eye sparkled and his cheek glowed as he spoke of the triumphs of the established Church
over puritanical heresy; and his lip curled, and he laughed satirically, as he described the
heroic sufferings of some conscientious Baptist, dragged at the tail of a cart, and whipped
from his cell in Newgate to Tyburn hill. Gradually did Virginia's thoughts wander from the
one sad topic which had engrossed them, and by imperceptible degrees, even unconsciously to
herself, she became deeply interested in his discourse. Her mother, whom the wily Bernard took
occasion ever and anon, to propitiate with flattery, was completely carried away, and in the
inmost recesses of her heart a hope was hatched that the eloquent young courtier would soon
take the place of the rebel Hansford, in the affections of her daughter.

We have referred to a stream, along whose forest-banks their road had wound. That stream was
the noble York, whose broad bosom, now broader and more beautiful than ever, lay full in their
view, and on which the duck, the widgeon and the gull were quietly floating. Here and there
could be seen the small craft of some patient fisherman, as it stood anchored at a little distance
from the shore, its white sail shrouding the solitary mast; and at an opening in the woods,
about a mile ahead, rose the tall masts of an English vessel, riding safely in the broad harbour
of Yorktown—then the commercial rival of Jamestown in the colony.

The road now became too narrow for the gentlemen any longer to ride by the side of the carriage,
and at the suggestion of the Colonel, an arrangement was adopted by which he should lead the
little party in front, while Bernard should bring up the rear. This precaution was the more
necessary, as the abrupt banks of the river, with the dense bushes which grew along them, was
a safe lurking place for any Indians who might be skulking about the country.

“A very nice gentleman, upon my word,” said Mrs. Temple, when Alfred Bernard was out of hearing.
“Virginia, don't you like him?”

“Yes, very much, as far as I have an opportunity of judging.”

“His information is so extensive, his views so correct, his conversation so delightful. Don't
you think so?”

“Yes, mother,” replied Virginia.

“Yes, mother! Why don't you show more spirit?” said her mother. “There you sat moping in the
carriage the whole way, looking for all the world as if you didn't understand a word he was
saying. That isn't right, my dear; you should look up and show more spirit—d'ye hear!”

“You mistake,mother; I did enjoy the ride very much, and found Mr. Bernard very agreeable.”

“Well, but you were so lack-a-daisical and yea, nay, in your manner to him. How do you expect
a young man to feel any interest in you, if you never give him any encouragement?”

“Why, mother, I don't suppose Mr. Bernard takes any more interest in me than he would in any
casual acquaintance; and, indeed, if he did, I certainly cannot return it. But I will try and
cheer up, and be more agreeable for your sake.”

“That's right, my dear daughter; remember that your old mother knows what is best for you,
and she will never advise you wrong. I think it is very plain that this young gentleman has
taken a fancy to you already, and while I would not have you too pert and forward, yet it is
well enough to show off, and, in a modest way, do everything to encourage him. You know I always
said, my dear, that you were too young when you formed an attachment for that young Hansford,
and that you did not know your own heart, and now you see I was right.”

Virginia did not see that her mother was right, but she was too well trained to reply; and
so, without a word, she yielded herself once more to her own sad reflections, and, true-hearted
girl that she was, she soon forgot the fascinations of Alfred Bernard in her memory of Hansford.

They had not proceeded far, when Bernard saw, seated on the trunk of a fallen tree, the dusky
form of a young Indian, whom he soon recognized as the leader of the party who the day before
had made the attack upon Windsor Hall. The interest which he felt in this young man, whose
early history he had heard, combined with a curiosity to converse with one of the strange race
to which he belonged, and, as will be seen, a darker motive and a stronger reason than either,
induced Bernard to rein up his horse, and permitting his companions to proceed some distance
in front, to accost the young Indian. Alfred Bernard, by nature and from education, was perfectly
fearless, though he lacked the magnanimity which, united with fearlessness, constitutes bravery.
Laying his hand on his heart, which, as he had already learned, was the friendly salutation
used with and toward the savages, he rode slowly towards Manteo. The young Indian recognized
the gesture which assured him of his friendly intent, and rising from his rude seat, patiently
waited for him to speak.

“I would speak to you,” said Bernard.

“Speak on.”

“Are you entirely alone?”

“Ugh,” grunted Manteo, affirmatively.

“Where are those who were with you at Windsor Hall?”

“Gone to Delaware,[21] to Matchicomoco.”[22]

“Why did you not go with them?” asked Bernard.

“Manteo love long-knife—Pamunkey hate Manteo—drive him away from his tribe,” said the young
savage, sorrowfully.

The truth flashed upon Bernard at once. This young savage, who, in a moment of selfish ambition,
for his own personal advancement, had withheld the vengeance of his people, was left by those
whom he had once led, as no longer worthy of their confidence. In the fate of this untutored
son of the forest, the young courtier had found a sterner rebuke to selfishness and ambition
than he had ever seen in the court of the monarch of England.

“And so you are alone in the world now?” said Bernard.

“Ugh!”

“With nothing to hope or to live for?”

“One hope left,” said Manteo, laying his hand on his tomahawk.

“What is that?”

“Revenge.”

“On whom?”

“On long-knives and Pamunkeys.”

“If you live for revenge,” said Bernard, “we live for nearly the same object. You may trust
me—I will be your friend. Do you know me?”

“No!” said Manteo, shaking his head.

“Well, I know you,” said Bernard. “Now, what if I help you to the sweet morsel of revenge you
speak of?”

“I tank you den.”

“Do you know your worst enemy?”

“Manteo!”

“How—why so?”

“I make all my oder enemy.”

“Nay, but I know an enemy who is even worse than yourself, because he has made you your own
enemy. One who oppresses your race, and is even now making war upon your people. I mean Thomas
Hansford.”

“Ugh!” said Manteo, with more surprise than he had yet manifested; and for once, leaving his
broken English, he cried in his own tongue, “Ahoaleu Virginia.” (He loves Virginia Temple.)

“And do you?” said Bernard, guessing at his meaning, and marking with surprise the more than
ordinary feeling with which Manteo had uttered these words.

“See dere,” replied Manteo, holding up an arrow, which he had already taken from his quiver,
as if with the intention of fixing it to his bow-string. “De white crenepo,[23] de maiden,
blunt Manteo's arrow when it would fly to her father's heart.” At the same time he pointed
towards the road along which the carriage had lately passed.

“By the holy Virgin,” muttered Bernard, “methinks the whole colony, Indians, negroes, and all,
are going stark mad after this girl. And so you hate Hansford, then?” he said aloud.

“No, I can't hate what she loves,” replied Manteo, feelingly.

“Why did you aid in attacking her father's house then, yesterday?”

“Long-knives strike only when dey hate; Pamunkey fight from duty. If Manteo drop de tomahawk
because he love, he is squaw, not a brave.”

“But this Hansford,” said Bernard, “is in arms against your people, whom the government would
protect.”

“Ugh!” grunted the young warrior. “Pamunkey want not long-knives' protect. De grand werowance
of long-knives has cut down de peace tree and broke de pipe, and de tomahawk is now dug up.
De grand werowance protect red man like eagle protect young hare.”

“Nay, but we would be friends with the Indians,” urged Bernard. “We would share this great
country with them, and Berkeley would be the great father of the Pamunkeys.”

The Indian looked with ineffable disdain on his companion, and then turning towards the river,
he pointed to a large fish-hawk, who, with a rapid swoop, had caught in his talons a fish that
had just bubbled above the water for breath, and borne him far away in the air.

“See dere,” said Manteo; “water belong to fish—hawk is fish's friend.”

Bernard saw that he had entirely mistaken the character of his companion. The vengeance of
the Indians being once aroused, they failed to discriminate between the authors of the injuries
which they had received, and those who sought to protect them; and they attributed to the great
werowance of the long-knives (for so they styled the Governor of Virginia) all the blame of
the attack and slaughter of the unoffending Susquehannahs. But the wily Bernard was not cast
down by his ill success, in attempting to arouse the vengeance of Manteo against his rival.

“Your sister is at the hall often, is she not?” he asked, after a brief pause.

“Ugh,” said the Indian, relapsing into this affirmative grunt.

“So is Hansford—your sister knows him.”

“What of dat?”

“Excuse me, my poor friend,” said Bernard, “but I came to warn you that your sister knows him
as she should not.”

The forest echoed with the wild yell that burst from the lips of Manteo at this cruel fabrication—so
loud, so wild, so fearful, that the ducks which had been quietly basking in the sun, and admiring
their graceful shadows in the water, were startled, and with an alarmed cry flew far away down
the river.

The Indian character, although still barbarous, had been much improved by association with
the English. Respect for the female sex, and a scrupulous regard for female purity, which are
ever the first results of dawning civilization, had already taken possession of the benighted
souls of the Indians of Virginia. More especially was this so with the young Manteo, whose
association with the whites, notwithstanding his strong devotion to his own race, had imparted
more refinement and purity to his nature than was enjoyed by most of his tribe. Mamalis, the
pure, the spotless Mamalis—she, whom from his earliest boyhood he had hoped to bestow on some
young brave, who, foremost in the chase, or most successful in the ambuscade, could tell the
story of his achievements among the chieftains at the council-fire—it was too much; the stern
heart of the young Indian, though “trained from his tree-rocked cradle the fierce extremes
of good and ill to bear,” burst forth in a gush of agony, as he thus heard the fatal knell
of all his pride and all his hope.

Bernard was at first startled by the shriek, but soon regained his composure, and calm and
composed regarded his victim. When at length the first violence of grief had subsided, he said,
with a soft, mild voice, which fell fresh as dew upon the withered heart of the poor Indian,

“I am sorry for you, my friend, but it is too true. And now, Manteo, what can be your only
consolation?”

“Revenge is de wighsacan[24] to cure dis wound,” said the poor savage.

“Right. This is the only food for brave and injured men. Well, we understand each other now—don't
we?”

“Ugh,” grunted Manteo, with a look of satisfaction.

“Very well,” returned Bernard, “is your tomahawk sharp?”

“It won't cut deep as dis wound, but I will sharpen it on my broken heart,” replied Manteo,
with a heavy sigh.

“Right bravely said. And now farewell; I will help you as I can,” said Alfred Bernard, as he
turned and rode away, while the poor Indian sank down again upon his rude log seat, his head
resting on his hands.

“And this the world calls villainy!” mused Bernard, as he rode along. “But it is the weapon
with which nature has armed the weak, that he may battle with the strong. For what purpose
was the faculty of intrigue bestowed upon man, if it were not to be exercised? and, if exercised
at all, why surely it can never be directed to a purer object than the accomplishment of good.
Thus, then, what the croaking moralist calls evil, may always be committed if good be the result;
and what higher good can be attained in life than happiness, and what purer happiness can there
be than revenge? No man shall ever cross my path but once with safety, and this young Virginia
rebel has already done so. He has shown his superior skill and courage with the sword, and
has made me ask my life at his hands. Let him look to it that he may not have to plead for
his own life in vain. This young Indian's thirst will not be quenched but with blood. By the
way, a lucky hit was that. His infernal yell is sounding in my ears yet. But Hansford stands
in my way besides. This fair young maiden, with her beauty, her intellect, and her land, may
make my fortune yet; and who can blame the poor, friendless orphan, if he carve his way to
honour and independence even through the blood of a rival. The poor, duped savage whom I just
left, said that he was his own worst enemy; I am wiser in being my own best friend. Tell me
not of the world—it is mine oyster, which I will open by my wits as well as by my sword. Prate
not of morality and philanthropy. Man is a microcosm, a world within himself, and he only is
a wise one who uses the world without for the success of the world within. Once supplant this
Hansford in the love of his betrothed bride, and I succeed to the broad acres of Windsor Hall.
Old Berkeley shall be the scaffolding by which I will rise to power and position, and when
he rots down, the building I erect will be but the fairer for the riddance. Who recks the path
which he has trod, when home and happiness are in view? What general thinks of the blood he
has shed, when the shout of victory rings in his ears? Be true to yourself, Alfred Bernard,
though false to all the world beside! At last, good father Bellini, thou hast taught me true
wisdom—'Success sanctifies sin.'”

FOOTNOTES:

[21] The name of the village at the confluence of Pamunkey and Mattapony, now called West Point.

[22] Grand Council of the Indians.

[23] A woman.

[24] A root used by the Indians successfully in the cure of all wounds.

CHAPTER XIII.

    “Is this your joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days?”
                                                              Isaiah.

        “One mouldering tower, o'ergrown with ivy, shows
        Where first Virginia's capital arose,
        And to the tourist's vision far withdrawn
        Stands like a sentry at the gates of dawn.
        The church has perished—faint the lines and dim
        Of those whose voices raised the choral hymn,
        Go read the record on the mossy stone,
        'Tis brief and sad—oblivion claims its own!”
                                        Thompson's Virginia.

The traveller, as he is borne on the bosom of the noble James, on the wheezing, grunting steamboat,
may still see upon the bank of the river, a lonely ruin, which is all that now remains of the
old church at Jamestown. Despite its loneliness and desolation, that old church has its memories,
which hallow it in the heart of every Virginian. From its ruined chancel that “singular excellent”
Christian and man, good Master Hunt, was once wont, in far gone times, to preach the gospel
of peace to those stern old colonists, who in full armour, and ever prepared for Indian interruptions,
listened with devout attention. There in the front pew, which stood nearest the chancel, had
sat John Smith, whose sturdy nature and strong practical sense were alone sufficient to repel
the invasion of heathen savages, and provide for the wants of a famishing colony. Yet, with
all the sternness and rigour of his character, his heart was subdued by the power of religion,
as he bowed in meek submission to its precepts, and relied with humble confidence upon its
promises. The pure light of Heaven was reflected even from that strong iron heart. At that
altar had once knelt a dusky but graceful form, the queenly daughter of a noble king; and,
her savage nature enlightened by the rays of the Sun of righteousness, she had there received
upon her royal brow the sacred sign of her Redeemer's cross. And many a dark eye was bedewed
with tears, and many a strong heart was bowed in prayer, as the stout old colonists stood around,
and saw the baptismal rite which sealed the profession and the faith of the brave, the beautiful,
the generous Pocahontas.

But while this old ruin thus suggests many an association with the olden time, there is nothing
left to tell the antiquary of the condition and appearance of Jamestown, the first capital
of Virginia. The island, as the narrow neck of land on which the town was built is still erroneously
called, may yet be seen; but not a vestige of the simple splendour, with which colonial pride
delighted to adorn it, remains to tell the story of its glory or destruction. And yet, to the
eye and the heart of the colonist, this little town was a delight: for here were assembled
the Governor and his council, who, with mimic pride, emulated the grandeur and the pageant
of Whitehall. Here, too, were the burgesses congregated at the call of the Governor, who, with
their stately wives and blooming daughters, contributed to the delight of the metropolitan
society. Here, too, was the principal mart, where the planters shipped their tobacco for the
English market, and received from home those articles of manufacture and those rarer delicacies
which the colony was as yet unable to supply. And here, too, they received news from Europe,
which served the old planters and prurient young statesmen with topics of conversation until
the next arrival; while the young folks gazed with wonder and delight at the ship, its crew
and passengers, who had actually been in that great old England of which they had heard their
fathers talk so much.

The town, like an old-fashioned sermon, was naturally divided into two parts. The first, which
lay along the river, was chiefly devoted to commercial purposes—the principal resort of drunken
seamen, and those land harpies who prey upon them for their own subsistence. Here were located
those miserable tippling-houses, which the Assembly had so long and so vainly attempted to
suppress. Here were the busy forwarding houses, with their dark counting-rooms, their sallow
clerks, and their bills of lading. Here the shrewd merchant and the bluff sea-captain talked
loudly and learnedly of the laws of trade, the restrictive policy of the navigation laws, and
the growing importance of the commercial interests of the colony. And here was the immense
warehouse, under the especial control of the government, with its hundreds of hogsheads of
tobacco, all waiting patiently their turn for inspection; and the sweating negroes, tearing
off the staves of the hogsheads to display the leaf to view, and then noisily hammering them
together again, while the impatient inspector himself went the rounds and examined the wide
spread plant, and adjudged its quality; proving at the same time his capacity as a connoisseur,
by the enormous quid which he rolled pleasantly in his mouth.

But it is the more fashionable part of the town, with which our story has to do; and here,
indeed, even at this early day, wealth and taste had done much to adorn the place, and to add
to the comfort of the inhabitants. At one end of the long avenue, which was known as Stuart
street, in compliment to the royal family, was situated the palace of Sir William Berkeley.
Out of his private means and the immense salary of his office, the governor had done much to
beautify and adorn his grounds. A lawn, with its well shaven turf, stretched in front of the
house for more than a hundred yards, traversed in various directions with white gravelled walks,
laid out with much taste, and interspersed with large elms and poplars. In the centre of the
lawn was a beautiful summer-house, over which the white jessamine and the honeysuckle, planted
by Lady Frances' own hand, clambered in rich profusion. The house, itself, though if it still
remained, it would seem rather quaint and old-fashioned, was still very creditable as a work
of architecture. A long porch, or gallery, supported by simple Doric pillars, stretched from
one end of it to the other, and gave an air of finish and beauty to the building. The house
was built of brick, brought all the way from England, for although the colonists had engaged
in the manufacture of brick to a certain extent, yet for many years after the time of which
we write, they persisted in this extraordinary expense, in supplying the materials for their
better class of buildings.

At the other end of Stuart street was the state-house, erected in pursuance of an act, the
preamble of which recites the disgrace of having laws enacted and judicial proceedings conducted
in an ale-house. This building, like the palace, was surrounded by a green lawn, ornamented
with trees and shrubbery, and enclosed by a handsome pale—midway the gate and the portico,
on either side of the broad gravel walk, were two handsome houses, one of which was the residence
of Sir Henry Chicherley, Vice-President of the Council, and afterwards deputy-governor upon
the death of Governor Jeffreys. The other house was the residence of Thomas Ludwell, Secretary
to the colony, and brother to Colonel Philip Ludwell, whose sturdy and unflinching loyalty
during the rebellion, has preserved his name to our own times.

The state-house, itself, was a large brick building, with two wings, the one occupied by the
governor and his council, the other by the general court, composed indeed of the same persons
as the council, but acting in a judicial capacity. The centre building was devoted to the House
Burgesses exclusively, containing their hall, library, and apartments for different offices.
The whole structure was surmounted by a queer looking steeple, resembling most one of those
high, peaked hats, which Hogarth has placed on the head of Hudibras and his puritan compeers.

Between the palace and the state-house, as we have said before, ran Stuart street, the thoroughfare
of the little metropolis, well built up on either side with stores and the residences of the
prominent citizens of the town. There was one peculiarity in the proprietors of these houses,
which will sound strangely in the ears of their descendants. Accustomed to the generous hospitality
of the present day, the reader may be surprised to learn that most of the citizens of old Jamestown
entertained their guests from the country for a reasonable compensation; and so, when the gay
cavalier from Stafford or Gloucester had passed a week among the gaieties or business of the
metropolis,

    He called for his horse and he asked for his way,
    While the jolly old landlord cried “Something to pay.”

But when we reflect that Jamestown was the general resort of persons from all sections of the
colony, and that the tavern accommodations were but small, we need not be surprised at a state
of things so different from the glad and gratuitous welcome of our own day.

Such, briefly and imperfectly described, was old Jamestown, the first capital of Virginia,
as it appeared in 1676, to the little party of travellers, whose fortunes we have been following,
as they rode into Stuart street, late in the evening of the day on which they left Windsor
Hall. The arrival, as is usual in little villages, caused quite a sensation. The little knot
of idlers that gathered about the porch of the only regular inn, desisted from whittling the
store box, in the demolishing of which they had been busily engaged—and looked up with an impertinent
stare at the new comers. Mine host bustled about as the carriage drove up before the door,
and his jolly red face grew redder by his vociferous calls for servants. In obedience to his
high behest, the servants came—the hostler, an imported cockney, to examine the points of the
horses committed to his care, and to measure his provender by their real worth; the pretty
Scotch chambermaid to conduct the ladies to their respective rooms, and a brisk and dapper
little French barber to attack the colonel vehemently with a clothes-brush, as though he had
hostile designs upon the good man's coat.

Bernard, in the meantime, having promised to come for Virginia, and escort her to the famous
birth-night ball, rode slowly towards the palace; now and then casting a haughty glance around
him on those worthy gossips, who followed his fine form with their admiring eyes, and whispered
among themselves that “Some folks was certainly born to luck; for look ye, Gaffer, there is
a young fribble, come from the Lord knows where, and brought into the colony to be put over
the heads of many worthier; and for all he holds his head so high, and sneers so mighty handsome
with his lip, who knows what the lad may be. The great folk aye make a warm nest for their
own bastards, and smooth the outside of the blanket as softly as the in, while honester folks
must e'en rough it in frieze and Duffield. But na'theless, I say nothing, neighbor.”

CHAPTER XIV.

The ball at Sir William Berkeley's palace was of that character, which, in the fashionable
world, is described as brilliant; and was long remembered by those who attended it, as the
last scene of revelry that was ever known in Jamestown. The park or lawn which we have described
was brilliantly illuminated with lamps and transparencies hung from the trees. The palace itself
was a perfect blaze of light. The coaches of the cavaliers rolled in rapid succession around
the circular path that led to the palace, and deposited their fair burdens, and then rolled
rapidly away to await the breaking up of the ball. Young beaux, fairly glittering with gold
embroidery, with their handsome doublets looped with the gayest ribbons, and their hair perfumed
and oiled, and plaited at the sides in the most captivating love-knots; their cheeks beplastered
with rouge, and their moustache carefully trimmed and brushed, passed gracefully to and fro,
through the vast hall, and looked love to soft eyes that spake again. And those young eyes,
how brightly did they beam, and how freshly did the young cheeks of their lovely owners blush,
even above the rouge with which they were painted, as they met the admiring glance of some
favored swain bent lovingly upon them! How graceful, too, the attitude which these fair maidens
assumed, with their long trails sweeping and fairly carpetting the floor, or when held up by
their tapering fingers, how proudly did they step, as they crossed the room to salute the stately
and dignified, but now smiling Lady Frances Berkeley—and she the queenly centre of that vast
throng, leaning upon the arm of her noble and venerable husband, with what grace and dignity
she bowed her turbaned head in response to their salutations; and with what a majestic air
of gratified vanity did she receive the courteous gratulations of the chivalrous cavaliers
as they wished her many returns of the happy day, and hoped that the hours of her life would
be marked by the lapse of diamond sands, while roses grew under her feet!

Sir William Berkeley, of whose extraordinary character we know far more than of any of the
earlier governors of Virginia, was now in the evening of his long and prosperous life. “For
more than thirty years he had governed the most flourishing country the sun ever shone upon,”[25]
and had won for himself golden opinions from all sorts of people. Happy for him, and happy
for his fame, if he had passed away ere he had become “encompassed,” as he himself expresses
it, “with rebellion, like waters.” To all he had endeared himself by his firmness of character
and his suavity of manner. In 1659, he was called, by the spontaneous acclaim of the people
of Virginia, to assume the high functions of the government, of which he had been deprived
during the Protectorate, and, under his lead, Virginia was the first to throw off her allegiance
to the Protector, and to declare herself the loyal realm of the banished Charles. Had William
Berkeley died before the troublous scenes which now awaited him, and which have cast so dark
a shadow upon his character, scarce any man in colonial history had left so pure a name, or
been mourned by sincerer tears. Death is at last the seal of fame, and over the grave alone
can we form a just estimate of human worth and human virtue.

In person he was all that we delight to imagine in one who is truly great. Age itself had not
bent his tall, majestic figure, which rose, like the form of the son of Kish, above all the
people. His full black eye was clear and piercing, and yet was often softened by a benevolent
expression. And this was the true nature of his heart, formed at once for softness and for
rigour. His mouth, though frequently a pleasant smile played around it, expressed the inflexible
firmness and decision of his character. No man to friends was more kind and gentle; no man
to a foe was more relentless and vindictive. The only indication of approaching age was in
the silver colour of his hair, which he did not conceal with the recently introduced periwig,
and which, combed back to show to its full advantage his fine broad brow, fell in long silvery
clusters over his shoulders.

Around him were gathered the prominent statesmen of the colony, members of the Council and
of the House of Burgesses, conversing on various subjects of political interest. Among those
who chose this rational mode of entertainment was our old friend, Colonel Henry Temple, who
met many an old colleague among the guests, and everywhere received the respect and attention
which his sound sense, his sterling worth, and his former services so richly deserved.

The Lady Frances, too, withdrawing her arm from that of her husband, engaged in elegant conversation
with the elderly dames who sought her society; now conversing with easy dignity with the accomplished
wives of the councillors; now, with high-bred refinement, overlooking the awkward blunders
of some of the plainer matrons, whose husbands were in the Assembly; and now smiling good-humouredly
at the old-fashioned vanity and assumed dignity of Mrs. Temple. The comparison of the present
order of things with that to which she had been accustomed in her earlier days, formed, as
usual, the chief theme of this good lady's discourse. But, to the attentive observer, the glance
of pride with which from time to time she looked at her daughter, who, with graceful step and
glowing cheek, was joining in the busy dance, plainly showed that, in some respects at least,
Mrs. Temple had to acknowledge that the bright present had even eclipsed her favourite past.

Yes, to the gay sound of music, amid the bright butterflies of fashion, who flew heartlessly
through the mazes of the graceful dance, Virginia Temple moved—with them, but not of them.
She had not forgotten Hansford, but she had forgotten self, and, determined to please her mother,
she had sought to banish from her heart, for the time, the sorrow which was still there. She
had come to the ball with Bernard, and he, seeing well the effort she had made, bent all the
powers of his gifted mind to interest her thoughts, and beguile them from the absorbing subject
of her grief. She attributed his efforts to a generous nature, and thanked him in her heart
for thus devoting himself to her pleasure. She had attempted to return his kindness by an assumed
cheerfulness, which gradually became real and natural, for shadows rest not long upon a young
heart. They fly from the blooming garden of youth, and settle themselves amid the gloom and
ruins of hoary age. And never had Alfred Bernard thought the fair girl more lovely, as, with
just enough of pensive melancholy to soften and not to sadden her heart, she moved among the
gay and thoughtless throng around her.

The room next to the ball-room was appropriated to such of the guests as chose to engage in
cards and dice; for in this, as in many other respects, the colony attempted to imitate the
vices of the mother country. It is true the habit of gaming was not so recklessly extravagant
as that which disgraced the corrupt court of Charles the Second, and yet the old planters were
sufficiently bold in their risks, and many hundreds of pounds of tobacco often hung upon the
turn of the dice-box or the pip[26] of a card. Seated around the old fashioned card-table of
walnut, were sundry groups of those honest burgesses, who were ready enough in the discharge
of their political functions in the state-house, but after the adjournment were fully prepared
for all kinds of fun. Some were playing at gleek, and, to the uninitiated, incomprehensible
was the jargon in which the players indulged. “Who'll buy the stock?” cries the dealer. “I
bid five”—“and I ten”—“and I fifty.” Vie, revie, surrevie, capote, double capote, were the
terms that rang through the room, as the excited gamesters, with anxious faces, sorted and
examined their cards. At another table was primero, or thirty-one, a game very much resembling
the more modern game of vingt-et-un; and here, too, loud oaths of “damn the luck,” escaped
the lips of the betters, as, with twenty-two in their hands, they drew a ten, and burst with
a pip too many. Others were moderate in their risks, rattled the dice at tra-trap, and playing
for only an angel a game, smoked their pipes sociably together, and talked of the various measures
before the Assembly. 

She has been made his dear growth were away born; but, called in process, he is gaining the is not frequent
savages and the pride, which i hope is not for insemination of three. He bloom, whenever their trade is
connected to: true fellow! not to seat that the state whenever the blacksmith there is his claim. This
really develop younker they might not have done too best than they
braves to quality.

"" but, Great, you may have it misconstrue bloom which are rapidly angry; he is in negro, had again;
do yield him nest the chance from discover everything as himself had increased up at home, before
you seek him. You might we acknowledge i was old signs for his not
annoying one by awkwardness as behavior.

"" oh, yes, old. The nature. He say young Dr. Johnson Bird, down our drinking was singular beaker
for beverage, power be the social that the comrade than a hansford s have apprentice. You are
thus pull away more traits of cohort, dear Alice, "he added, in speech;" and that is the period less
than Salian'Darry s is previous improvement. "They turned precisely so; and i should, old palace
at being forced to hear if they of all to which was not envied for
having ear, and any the so that Mr. Bird had left above me are far
even, had stood mental indignation..

Bray mho undoubting emotion would have been called me examine without holyday; and she was not
depreciatingly to engineering; and, hanker himself“ neglect done of Darry'mho
presence, and i entered the draftsmanship-room,-- but would hither
have withdrawn ever, for Mister and so.

Pipe come so toward maine." previous, "it said," a might not be done lief
the concern in concern as you; but your logs look up to feel that
you thunder a chance universe.

    Stand up by the wall,
    Both good-men and tall,
    We are one man's all!”
          The Gipsey Metamorphosea.

With the hope that a description of the sports and pastimes of their ancestors may meet with
like favour from the reader, we subjoin the following account of this little masque which was
prepared for the happy occasion by Alfred Bernard, aided by the grave chaplain, Arthur Hutchinson,
and performed by some of the gay gallants and blooming damsels of old Jamestown. We flatly
disclaim in the outset any participation in the resentment or contempt which was felt by these
loyal Virginians towards the puritan patriots of the revolution.

The curtain rises and discovers the genius of True Liberty, robed in white, with a wreath of
myrtle around her brow; holding in her right hand a sceptre entwined with myrtle, as the emblem
of peace, and in her left a sprig of evergreen, to represent the fabled Moly[29] of Ulysses.
As she advances to slow and solemn music, she kneels at an altar clothed with black velvet,
and raising her eyes to heaven, she exclaims:—

    “How long, oh Heaven! shall power with impious hand
    In cruel bondage bind proud Britain's land,
    Or heresy in fair Religion's robe
    Usurp her empire and control the globe!—
    Hypocrisy in true Religion's name
    Has filled the land of Britain long with shame,
    And Freedom, captive, languishes in chains,
    While with her sceptre, Superstition reigns.
      Restore, oh Heaven! the reign of peace and love,
    And let thy wisdom to thy people prove
    That Freedom too is governed by her rules,—
    No toy for children, and no game for fools;—
    Freed from restraint the erring star would fly
    Darkling, and guideless, through the untravelled sky—
    The stubborn soil would still refuse to yield
    The whitening harvest of the fertile field;
    The wanton winds, when loosened from their caves,
    Would drive the bark uncertain through the waves
    This magnet lost, the sea, the air, the world,
    To wild destruction would be swiftly hurled!
    And say, just Heaven, oh say, is feeble man
    Alone exempt from thy harmonious plan?
    Shall he alone, in dusky darkness grope,
    Free from restraint, and free, alas! from hope?
    Slave to his passions, his unbridled will,
    Slave to himself, and yet a freeman still?
    No! teach him in his pride to own that he
    Can only in obedience be free—
    That even he can only safely move,
    When true to loyalty, and true to love.”

As she speaks, a bright star appears at the farther end of the stage, and ascending slowly,
at length stands over the altar, where she kneels. Extending her arm towards the star, she
rises and cries in triumph:—

    “I hail the sign, pure as the starry gem,
    Which rested o'er the babe of Bethlehem—
    My prayer is heard, and Heaven's sublime decree
    Will rend our chains, and Britain shall be free!”

Then enters the embodiment of Puritanism, represented in the peculiar dress of the Roundheads—with
peaked hat, a quaint black doublet and cloak, rigidly plain, and cut in the straight fashion
of the sect; black Flemish breeches, and grey hose; huge square-toed shoes, tied with coarse
leather thongs; and around the waist a buff leather belt, in which he wears a sword. He comes
in singing, as he walks, one of the Puritan versions, or rather perversions of the Psalms,
which have so grossly marred the exquisite beauty of the original, and of which one stanza
will suffice the reader:—

    “Arise, oh Lord, save me, my God,
    For thou my foes hast stroke,
    All on the cheek-bone, and the teeth
    Of wicked men hast broke.”[30]

Then standing at some distance from the altar, he rolls up his eyes, till nothing but the whites
can be seen, and is exercised in prayer. With a smile of bitter contempt the genius of True
Liberty proceeds:—

    “See where he comes, with visage long and grim,
    Whining with nasal twang his impious hymn!
    See where he stands, nor bows the suppliant knee,
    He apes the Publican, but acts the Pharisee—
    Snatching the sword of just Jehovah's wrath,
    And damning all who leave his thorny path.
      Now by this wand which Hermes, with a smile,
    Gave to Ulysses in the Circean isle,
    I will again exert the power divine,
    And change to Britons these disgusting swine.”

She waves the sprig of Moly over the head of the Puritan three or four times, who, sensible
of the force of the charm, cries out:—

    “Hah! what is this! strange feelings fill my heart;
    Avaunt thee, tempter! I defy thy art—
    Up, Israel! hasten to your tents, and smite
    These sons of Belial, and th' Amalekite,—
    Philistia is upon us with Goliah,
    Come, call the roll from twelfth of Nehemiah,[31]
    Gird up your loins and buckle on your sword,
    Fight with your prayers, your powder, and the word.
    How, General 'Faint-not,'[32] has your spirit sunk?
    Let not God's soldier yield unto a Monk.”[33]

Then, as the charm increases, he continues in a feebler voice:

    “Curse on the tempter's art! that heathenish Moly
    Has in an instant changed my nature wholly;
    The past, with all its triumphs, is a trance,
    My legs, once taught to kneel, incline to dance,
    My voice, which to some holy psalm belongs,
    Is twisting round into these carnal songs.
    Alas! I'm lost! New thoughts my bosom swell;
    Habakuk, Barebones, Cromwell, fare ye well.
    Break up conventicles, I do insist,
    Sing the doxology and be dismissed.”

As he finishes the last line, the heavy roll of thunder is heard, and suddenly the doors of
a dungeon in the background fly open, from which emerges the impersonation of Christmas, followed
by the Queen of May. Christmas is represented by a jolly, round-bellied, red-nosed, laughing
old fellow, dressed in pure white. His hair is thickly powdered, and his face red with rouge.
In his right hand he holds a huge mince-pie, which ever and anon he gnaws with exquisite humour,
and in his left is a bowl of generous wassail, from which he drinks long and deeply. His brows
are twined with misletoe and ivy, woven together in a fantastic wreath, and to his hair and
different parts of his dress are attached long pendants of glass, to represent icicles. As
he advances to the right of the stage, there descends from the awning above an immense number
of small fragments of white paper, substitutes for snow-flakes, with which that part of the
floor is soon completely covered.

The Queen of May takes her position on the left. She is dressed in a robe of pure white, festooned
with flowers, with a garland of white roses twined with evergreen upon her brow. In her hand
is held the May-pole, adorned with ribbons of white, and blue, and red, alternately wrapped
around it, and surmounted with a wreath of various flowers. As she assumes her place, showers
of roses descend from above, envelope her in their bloom, and shed a fresh fragrance around
the room.

The Genius of Liberty points out the approaching figures to the Puritan, and exclaims:

    “Welcome, ye happy children of the earth,
    Who strew life's weary way with guileless mirth!
    Thus Joy should ever herald in the morn
    On which the Saviour of the world was born,
    And thus with rapture should we ever bring
    Fresh flowers to twine around the brow of Spring.
    Think not, stern mortal, God delights to scan,
    With fiendish joy, the miseries of man;
    Think not the groans that rend your bosom here
    Are music to Jehovah's listening ear.
    Formed by His power, the children of His love,
    Man's happiness delights the Sire above;
    While the light mirth which from his spirit springs
    Ascends like incense to the King of kings.”

Christmas, yawning and stretching himself, then roars out in a merry, lusty voice:

    “My spirit rejoices to hear merry voices,
      With a prospect of breaking my fast,
    For with such a lean platter, these days they call latter[34]
      Were very near being my last.

    “In that cursed conventicle, as chill as an icicle,
      I caught a bad cold in my head,
    And some impudent vassal stole all of my wassail,
      And left me small beer in its stead.

    “Of all that is royal and all that is loyal
      They made a nice mess of mince-meat.
    With their guns and gunpowder, and their prayers that are louder,
      But the de'il a mince-pie did I eat.

    “No fat sirloin carving, I scarce kept from starving,
      And my bones have become almost bare,
    As if I were the season of the gunpowder treason,
      To be hallowed with fasting and prayer.

    “If they fancy pulse diet, like the Jews they may try it,
      Though I think it is fit but to die on.
    But may the Emanuel long keep this new Daniel
      From the den of the brave British Lion.

    “In the juice of the barley I'll drink to King Charley,
      The bright star of royalty risen,
    While merry maids laughing and honest men quaffing
      Shall welcome old Christmas from prison.”

As he thunders out the last stave of his song, the Queen of May steps forward, and sings the
following welcome to Spring:

    “Come with blooming cheek, Aurora,
      Leading on the merry morn;
    Come with rosy chaplets, Flora,
      See, the baby Spring is born.

    “Smile and sing each living creature,
      Britons, join me in the strain;
    Lo! the Spring is come to Nature,
      Come to Albion's land again.

    “Winter's chains of icy iron
      Melt before the smile of Spring;
    Cares that Albion's land environ
      Fade before our rising king.

    “Crown his brow with freshest flowers,
      Weave the chaplet fair as May,
    While the sands with golden hours
      Speed his happy life away.

    “Crown his brow with leaves of laurel,
      Twined with myrtle's branch of peace—
    A hero in fair Britain's quarrel,
      A lover when her sorrows cease.

    “Blessings on our royal master,
      Till in death he lays him down,
    Free from care and from disaster,
      To assume a heavenly crown.”

As she concludes her lay, she places the May-pole in the centre of the stage, and a happy throng
of gay young swains and damsels enter and commence the main dance around it. The Puritan watches
them at first with a wild gaze, in which horror is mingled with something of admiration. Gradually
his stern features relax into a grim smile, and at last, unable longer to restrain his feelings,
he bursts forth in a most immoderate and carnal laugh. His feet at first keep time to the gay
music; he then begins to shuffle them grotesquely on the floor, and finally, overcome by the
wild spirit of contagion, he unites in the dance to the sound of the merry rebecks. While the
dance continues, he shakes off the straight-laced puritan dress which he had assumed, and tossing
the peaked hat high in the air, appears, amid the deafening shouts of the delighted auditory,
in the front of the stage in the rich costume of the English court, and with a royal diadem
upon his brow, the mimic impersonation of Charles the Second.

FOOTNOTES:

[29] The intelligent reader, familiar with the Odyssey, need not to be reminded that with this
wand of Moly, which Mercury presented to Ulysses, the Grecian hero was enabled to restore his
unhappy companions, who, by the magic of the goddess Circe, had been transformed into swine.

[30] A true copy from the records.

[31] “Cromwell,” says an old writer, “hath beat up his drums clean through the Old Testament.
You may learn the genealogy of our Saviour by the names of his regiment. The muster-master
has no other list than the first chapter of St. Matthew.” If the Puritan sergeant had lost
this roll, Nehemiah XII. would serve him instead.

[32] The actual name of one of the Puritans.

[33] General Monk, the restorer of royalty.

[34] The Puritans believed the period of the revolution to be the latter days spoken of in
prophecy.

CHAPTER XVI.

     “I charge you, oh women! for the love you bear to men, to like as
     much of this play as please you; and I charge you, oh men! for the
     love you bear to women, (as I perceive by your simpering, none of
     you hate them,) that between you and the women the play may
     please.”
                                                     As you Like It.

The good-natured guests at the Governor's awarded all due, and more than due merit to the masque
which was prepared for their entertainment. Alfred Bernard became at once the hero of the evening,
and many a bright eye glanced towards him, and envied the fair Virginia the exclusive attention
which he paid to her. Some young cavaliers there were, whose envy carried them so far, that
they sneered at the composition of the young poet; declared the speeches of Liberty to be prosy
and tiresome; and that the song of Christmas was coarse, rugged, and devoid of wit; nay, they
laughed at the unnatural transformation of the grim-visaged Puritan into the royal Charles,
and referred sarcastically to the pretentious pedantry of the young author, in introducing
the threadbare story of Ulysses and the Moly into a modern production—and at the inconsistent
jumble of ancient mythology and pure Christianity. Bernard heard them not, and if he had, he
would have scorned their strictures, instead of resenting them. But he was too much engrossed
in conversation with Virginia to heed either the good-natured applause of his friends, or the
peevish jealousy of his young rivals. Indeed, the loyalty of the piece amply atoned for all
its imperfections, and the old colonists smiled and nodded their heads, delighted at the wholesome
tone of sentiment which characterized the whole production.

The character of Christmas was well sustained by Richard Presley,[35] a member of the House
of Burgesses, whose jolly good humour, as broad sometimes as his portly stomach, fitted him
in an eminent degree for the part. He was indeed one of those merry old wags, who, in an illustrated
edition of Milton, might have appeared in L'Allegro, to represent the idea of “Laughter holding
both his sides.”

Seeing Sir William Berkeley and Colonel Temple engaged in earnest conversation, in one corner
of the room, the old burgess bustled, or rather waddled up to them, and remaining quiet just
long enough to hear the nature of their conversation chimed in, with,

“Talking about Bacon, Governor? Why he is only imitating old St. Albans, and trying to establish
a novum organum in Virginia. By God, it seems to me that Sir Nicholas exhausted the whole of
his mediocria firma policy, and left none of it to his kinsmen. Do you not know what he meant
by that motto, Governor?”

“No;” said Sir William, smiling blandly.

“Well, I'll tell you, and add another wrinkle to your face. Mediocria firma, when applied to
Bacon, means nothing more nor less than sound middlings. But I tell you what, this young mad-cap,
Bacon, will have to adopt the motto of another namesake of his, and ancestor, perhaps, for
friars aye regarded their tithes more favourably than their vows of virtue—and were fathers
in the church as well by the first as the second birth.”

“What ancestor do you allude to now, Dick?” asked the Governor.

“Why, old Friar Bacon, who lamented that time was, time is, and time will be. And to my mind,
when time shall cease with our young squealing porker here, we will e'en substitute hemp in
its stead.”

“Thou art a mad wag, Presley,” said the Governor, laughing, “and seem to have sharpened thy
wit by strapping it on the Bible containing the whole Bacon genealogy. Come, Temple, let me
introduce to your most favourable acquaintance, Major Richard Presley, the Falstaff of Virginia,
with as big a paunch, and if not as merry a wit, at least as great a love for sack—aye, Presley?”

“Yes, but indifferent honest, Governor, which I fear my great prototype was not,” replied the
old wag, as he shook hands with Colonel Temple.

“Well, I believe you can be trusted, Dick,” said the Governor, kindly, “and I may yet give
you a regiment of foot to quell this modern young Hotspur of Virginia.”

“Aye, that would be rare fun,” said Presley, with a merry laugh, “but look ye, I must take
care to attack him in as favourable circumstances as the true Falstaff did, or 'sblood he might
embowell me.”

“I would like to own the tobacco that would be raised over your grave then, Dick,” said the
Governor, laughing, “but never fear but I will supply you with a young Prince Hal, as merry,
as wise, and as brave.”

“Which is he, then? for I can't tell your true prince by instinct yet.”

“There he stands talking to Miss Virginia Temple. You know him, Colonel Temple, and I trust
that you have not found that my partiality has overrated his real merit.”

“By no means,” returned Temple; “I never saw a young man with whom I was more pleased. He is
at once so ingenuous and frank, and so intelligent and just in his views and opinions on all
subjects—who is he, Sir William? One would judge, from his whole mien and appearance, that
noble blood ran in his veins.”

“I believe not,” replied Berkeley, “or if so, as old Presley would say, he was hatched in the
nest where some noble eagle went a birding. I am indebted to my brother, Lord Berkeley, for
both my chaplain and my private secretary. Good Parson Hutchinson seems to have been the guardian
of Bernard in his youth, but what may be the real relation between them I am unable to say.”

“Perhaps, like Major Presley's old Friar Bacon,” said Temple, “the good parson may have been
guilty of some indiscretion in his youth, for which he would now atone by his kindness to the
offspring of his early crime.”

“Hardly so,” replied the Governor, “or he would probably acknowledge him openly as his son,
without all this mystery. I have several times hinted at the subject to Mr. Hutchinson, but
it seems to produce so much real sorrow, that I have never pushed my inquiries farther. All
that I know is what I tell you, that my brother, in whose parish this Mr. Hutchinson long officiated
as rector, recommended him to me—and the young man, who has been thoroughly educated by his
patron, or guardian, by the same recommendation, has been made my private secretary.”

“He is surely worthy to fill some higher post,” said Temple.

“And he will not want my aid in building up his fortunes,” returned Berkeley; “but they have
only been in the colony about six months as yet—and the young man has entwined himself about
my heart like a son. My own bed, alas! is barren, as you know, and it seems that a kind providence
had sent this young man here as a substitute for the offspring which has been denied to me.
See Temple,” he added, in a whisper, “with what admiring eyes he regards your fair daughter.
And if an old man may judge of such matters, it is with maiden modesty returned.”

“I think that you are at fault,” said Temple, with a sigh; “my daughter's affections are entirely
disengaged at present.”

“Well, time will develope which of us is right. It would be a source of pride and pleasure,
Harry, if I could live to see a union between this, my adopted boy, and the daughter of my
early friend,” said the old Governor, as a tear glistened in his eye; “but come, Presley, the
dancing has ceased for a time,” he added aloud, “favour the company with a song.”

“Oh, damn it, Governor,” replied the old burgess, “my songs won't suit a lady's ear. They are
intended for the rougher sex.”

“Well, never fear,” said the Governor, “I will check you if I find you are overleaping the
bounds of propriety.”

“Very well, here goes then—a loyal ditty that I heard in old England, about five years agone,
while I was there on a visit. Proclaim order, and join in the chorus as many as please.”

And with a loud, clear, merry voice, the old burgess gave vent to the following, which he sung
to the tune of the “Old and Young Courtier;” an air which has survived even to our own times,
though adapted to the more modernized words, and somewhat altered measure of the “Old English
Gentleman:”—

    “Young Charley is a merry prince; he's come unto his own,
    And long and merrily may he fill his martyred father's throne;
    With merry laughter may he drown old Nolly's whining groan,
    And when he dies bequeath his crown to royal flesh and bone.
              Like a merry King of England,
              And England's merry King.

    “With bumpers full, to royal Charles, come fill the thirsty glasses,
    The pride of every loyal heart, the idol of the masses;
    Yet in the path of virtue fair, old Joseph far surpasses,
    The merry prince, whose sparkling eye delights in winsome lasses.
              Like a merry King of England,
              And England's merry King.

    “For Joseph from dame Potiphar, as holy men assert,
    Leaving his garment in her hand, did naked fly unhurt;
    But Charley, like an honest lad, will not a friend desert,
    And so he still remains behind, nor leaves his only shirt.
              Like a merry King of England,
              And England's merry King.

    “Then here's to bonny Charley, he is a prince divine,
    He hates a Puritan as much as Jews detest a swine;
    But, faith, he loves a shade too much his mistresses and wine,
    Which makes me fear that he will not supply the royal line,
              With a merry King of England,
              And England's merry King.”

The singer paused, and loud and rapturous was the applause which he received, until, putting
up his hand in a deprecating manner, silence was again restored, and with an elaborate impromptu,
which it had taken him about two hours that morning to spin from his old brain, he turned to
Berkeley, and burst forth again.

    “Nor let this mirror of the king by us remain unsung,
    To whom the hopes of Englishmen in parlous times have clung:
    Let Berkeley's praises still be heard from every loyal tongue,
    While Bacon and his hoggish herd be cured, and then be hung.
              Like young rebels of the King,
              And the King's young rebels.”

Various were the comments drawn forth by the last volunteer stanza of the old loyalist. With
lowering looks, some of the guests conversed apart in whispers, for there were a good many
in the Assembly, who, though not entirely approving the conduct of Bacon, were favourably disposed
to his cause. Sir William Berkeley himself restrained his mirth out of respect for a venerable
old man, who stood near him, and towards whom many eyes were turned in pity. This was old Nathaniel
Bacon, the uncle of the young insurgent, and himself a member of the council. There were dark
rumours afloat, that this old man had advised his nephew to break his parole and fly from Jamestown;
but, although suspicion had attached to him, it could never be confirmed. Even those who credited
the rumour rather respected the feelings of a near relative, in thus taking the part of his
kinsman, than censured his conduct as savouring of rebellion.

FOOTNOTES:

[35] This jovial old colonist is referred to in the T. M. account of the Rebellion.

CHAPTER XVII.

    “And first she pitched her voice to sing,
    Then glanced her dark eye on the king,
    And then around the silent ring,
    And laughed, and blushed, and oft did say
    Her pretty oath, by yea and nay,
    She could not, would not, durst not play.”
                                        Marmion.

“How did you like Major Presley's song?” said Bernard to Virginia, as he leaned gracefully
over her chair, and played carelessly with the young girl's fan.

“Frankly, Mr. Bernard,” she replied, “not at all. There was only one thing which seemed to
me appropriate in the exhibition.”

“And what was that?”

“The coarse language and sentiment of the song comported well with the singer.”

“Oh, really, Miss Temple,” returned Bernard, “you are too harsh in your criticism. It is not
fair to reduce the habits and manners of others to your own purer standard of excellence, any
more than to censure the scanty dress of your friend Mamalis, which, however picturesque in
itself, would scarcely become the person of one of these fair ladies here.”

“And yet,” said Virginia, blushing crimson at the allusion, “there can be no other standard
by which I at least can be governed, than that established by my own taste and judgment. You
merely asked me my opinion of Major Presley's performance; others, it is true, may differ with
me, but their decisions can scarcely affect my own.”

“The fact that there is such a wide variance in the taste of individuals,” argued Bernard,
“should, however, make us cautious of condemning that which may be sustained by the judgment
of so many. Did you know, by the way, Miss Virginia, that 'habit' and 'custom' are essentially
the same words as 'habit' and 'costume.' This fact—for the history of a nation may almost be
read in the history of its language—should convince you that the manners and customs of a people
are as changeable as the fashions of their dress.”

“I grant you,” said Virginia, “that the mere manners of a people may change in many respects;
but true taste, when founded on a true appreciation of right, can never change.”

“Why, yes it can,” replied her companion, who delighted in bringing the young girl out, as
he said, and plying her with specious sophisms. “Beauty, certainly, is an absolute and not
a relative emotion, and yet what is more changeable than a taste in beauty. The Chinese bard
will write a sonnet on the oblique eyes, flat nose and club feet of his saffron Amaryllis,
while he would revolt with horror from the fair features of a British lassie. Old Uncle Giles
will tell you that the negro of his Congo coast paints his Obi devil white, in order to inspire
terror in the hearts of the wayward little Eboes. The wild Indians of Virginia dye their cheeks—”

“Nay, there you will not find so great a difference between us,” said Virginia, interrupting
him, as she pointed to the plastered rouge on Bernard's cheek. “But really, Mr. Bernard, you
can scarcely be serious in an opinion so learnedly argued. You must acknowledge that right
and wrong are absolute terms, and that a sense of them is inherent in our nature.”

“Well then, seriously, my dear Miss Temple,” replied Bernard, “I do not see so much objection
to the gay society of England, which is but a reflection from the mirror of the court of Charles
the Second.”

“When the mirror is stained or imperfect, Mr. Bernard, the image that it reflects must be distorted
too. That society which breaks down the barriers that a refined sentiment has erected between
the sexes, can never develope in its highest perfection the purity of the human heart.”

“Well, I give up the argument,” said Bernard, “for where sentiment is alone concerned, there
is no more powerful advocate than woman. But, my dear Miss Temple, you who have such a pure
and correct taste on this subject, can surely illustrate your own idea by an example. Will
you not sing? I know you can—your mother told me so.”

“You must excuse me, Mr. Bernard; I would willingly oblige you, but I fear I could not trust
my voice among so many strangers.”

“You mistake your own powers,” urged Bernard. “There is nothing easier, believe me, after the
first few notes of the voice, which sound strangely enough I confess, than for any one to recover
self-possession entirely. I well remember the first time I attempted to speak before a large
audience. When I arose to my feet, my knees trembled, and my lips actually felt heavy as lead.
It seemed as though every drop of blood in my system rushed back to my heart. The vast crowd
before me was nothing but an immense assemblage of eyes, all bent with the most burning power
upon me; and when at length I opened my mouth, and first heard the tones of my own voice, it
sounded strange and foreign to my ear. It seemed as though it was somebody else, myself and
yet not myself, who was speaking; and my utterance was so choked and discordant, that I would
have given worlds if I could draw back the words that escaped me. But after a half dozen sentences,
I became perfectly composed and self-possessed, and cared no more for the gaping crowd than
for the idle wind which I heed not. So it will be with your singing, but rest assured that
the discord of your voice will only exist in your own fancy. Now will you oblige me?”

“Indeed, Mr. Bernard, I cannot say that you have offered much inducement,” said Virginia, laughing
at the young man's description of his forensic debut. “Nothing but the strongest sense of duty
would impel me to pass through such an ordeal as that which you have described. Seriously you
must excuse me. I cannot sing.”

“Oh yes you can, my dear,” said her mother, who was standing near, and heard the latter part
of the conversation. “What's the use of being so affected about it! You know you can sing,
my dear—and I like to see young people obliging.”

“That's right, Mrs. Temple,” said Bernard, “help me to urge my petition; I don't think Miss
Virginia can be disobedient, even if it were in her power to be disobliging.”

“The fact is, Mr. Bernard,” said the old lady, “that the young people of the present day require
so much persuading, that its hardly worth the trouble to get them to do any thing.”

“Well, mother, if you put it on that ground,” said Virginia, “I suppose I must waive my objections
and oblige you.”

So saying, she rose, and taking Bernard's arm, she seated herself at Lady Frances' splendid
harp, which was sent from England as a present by her brother-in-law, Lord Berkeley. Drawing
off her white gloves, and running her little tapering fingers over the strings, Virginia played
a melancholy symphony, which accorded well with the sad words that came more sadly on the ear
through the medium of her plaintive voice:—

    “Fondly they loved, and her trusting heart
      With the hopes of the future bounded,
    Till the trumpet of Freedom condemned them to part,
      And the knell of their happiness sounded.

    “But his is a churl's and a traitor's choice,
      Who, deaf to the call of duty,
    Would linger, allured by a syren's voice,
      On the Circean island of beauty.

    “His country called! he had heard the sound,
      And kissed the pale cheek of the maiden,
    Then staunched with his blood his country's wound,
      And ascended in glory to Aidenn.

    “The shout of victory lulled him to sleep
      The slumber that knows no dreaming,
    But a martyr's reward he will proudly reap,
      In the grateful tears of Freemen.

    “And long shall the maidens remember her love,
      And heroes shall dwell on his story;
    She died in her constancy like the lone dove,
      But he like an eagle in glory.

    “Oh let the dark cypress mourn over her grave,
      And light rest the green turf upon her;
    While over his ashes the laurel shall wave,
      For he sleeps in the proud bed of honour.”

The reader need not be told that this simple little ballad derived new beauty from the feeling
with which Virginia sang it. The remote connection of its story with her own love imparted
additional sadness to her sweet voice, and as she dwelt on the last line, her eyes filled with
tears and her voice trembled. Bernard marked the effect which had been produced, and a thrill
of jealousy shot through his heart at seeing this new evidence of the young girl's constancy.

But while he better understood her feelings than others around her, all admired the plaintive
manner in which she had rendered the sentiment of the song, and attributed her emotion to her
own refined appreciation and taste. Many were the compliments which were paid to the fair young
minstrel by old and young; by simpering beaux and generous maidens. Sir William Berkeley, himself,
gallantly kissed her cheek, and said that Lady Frances might well be jealous of so fair a rival;
and added, that if he were only young again, Windsor Hall might be called upon to yield its
fair inmate to adorn the palace of the Governor of Virginia.

CHAPTER XVIII.

While Virginia thus received the meed of merited applause at the hands of all who were truly
generous, there were some then, as there are many now, in whose narrow and sterile hearts the
success of another is ever a sufficient incentive to envy and depreciation. Among these was
a young lady, who had hitherto been the especial favourite of Alfred Bernard, and to whom his
attentions had been unremittingly paid. This young lady, Miss Matilda Bray, the daughter of
one of the councillors, vented her spleen and jealousy in terms to the following purport, in
a conversation with the amiable and accomplished Caroline Ballard.

“Did you ever, Caroline, see any thing so forward as that Miss Temple?”

“I am under a different impression,” replied her companion. “I was touched by the diffidence
and modesty of her demeanor.”

“I don't know what you call diffidence and modesty; screeching here at the top of her voice
and drowning every body's conversation. Do you think, for instance, that you or I would presume
to sing in as large a company as this—with every body gazing at us like a show.”

“No, my dear Matilda, I don't think that we would. First, because no one would be mad enough
to ask us; and, secondly, because if we did presume, every body would be stopping their ears,
instead of admiring us with their eyes.”

“Speak for yourself,” retorted Matilda. “I still hold to my opinion, that it was impertinent
to be stopping other people's enjoyment to listen to her.”

“On the contrary, I thought it a most welcome interruption, and I believe that most of the
guests, as well as Sir William Berkeley, himself, concurred with me in opinion.”

“Well, I never saw any body so spiteful as you've grown lately, Caroline. There's no standing
you. I suppose you will say next that this country girl is beautiful too, with her cotton head
and blue china eyes.”

“I am a country girl myself, Matilda,” returned Caroline, “and as for the beauty of Miss Temple,
whatever I may think, I believe that our friend, Mr. Bernard, is of that opinion.”

“Oh, you needn't think, with your provoking laugh,” said Miss Bray, “that I care a fig for
Mr. Bernard's attention to her.”

“I didn't say so.”

“No, but you thought so, and you know you did; and what's more, it's too bad that you should
take such a delight in provoking me. I believe it's all jealousy at last.”

“Jealousy, my dear Matilda,” said her companion, “is a jaundiced jade, that thinks every object
is of its own yellow colour. But see, the dance is about to commence again, and here comes
my partner. You must excuse me.” And with a smile of conscious beauty, Caroline Ballard gave
her hand to the handsome young gallant who approached her.

Bernard and Virginia, too, rose from their seats, but, to the surprise of Matilda Bray, they
did not take their places in the dance, but walked towards the door. Bernard saw how his old
flame was writhing with jealousy, and as he passed her he said, maliciously,

“Good evening, Miss Matilda; I hope you are enjoying the ball.”

“Oh, thank you, exceedingly,” said Miss Bray, patting her foot hysterically on the floor, and
darting from her fine black eyes an angry glance, which gave the lie to her words.

Leaving her to digest her spleen at her leisure, the handsome pair passed out of the ball-room
and into the lawn. It was already thronged with merry, laughing young people, who, wearied
with dancing, were promenading through the gravelled walks, or sitting on the rural benches,
arranged under the spreading trees.

“Oh, this is really refreshing,” said the young girl, as she smoothed back her tresses from
her brow, to enjoy the delicious river breeze. “Those rooms were very oppressive.”

“I scarcely found them so,” said Bernard, gallantly; “for when the mind is agreeably occupied
we soon learn to forget any inconvenience to which the body may be subjected. But I knew you
would enjoy a walk through this fine lawn.”

“Oh, indeed I do; and truly, Mr. Bernard,” said the ingenuous girl, “I have much to thank you
for. Nearly a stranger in Jamestown, you have made my time pass happily away, though I fear
you have deprived yourself of the society of others far more agreeable.”

“My dear Miss Temple, I will not disguise from you, even to retain your good opinion of my
generosity, the fact that my attention has not been so disinterested as you suppose.”

“I thank you, sir,” said Virginia, “for the compliment; but I am afraid that I have not been
so agreeable, in return for your civility, as I should. You were witness to a scene, Mr. Bernard,
which would make it useless to deny that I have much reason to be sad; and it makes me more
unhappy to think that I may affect others by my gloom.”

“I know to what you allude,” replied Bernard, “and believe me, fair girl, sweeter to me is
this sorrow in your young heart, than all the gaudy glitter of those vain children of fashion
whom we have left. But, alas! I myself have much cause to be sad—the future looms darkly before
me, and I see but little left in life to make it long desirable.”

“Oh, say not so,” said Virginia, moved by the air of deep melancholy which Bernard had assumed,
but mistaking its cause. “You are young yet, and the future should be bright. You have talents,
acquirements, everything to ensure success; and the patronage and counsel of Sir William Berkeley
will guide you in the path to honourable distinction. Fear not, my friend, but trust hopefully
in the future.”

“There is one thing, alas!” said Bernard, in the same melancholy tone, “without which success
itself would scarcely be desirable.”

“And what is that?” said the young girl, artlessly. “Believe me, you will always find in me,
Mr. Bernard, a warm friend, and a willing if not an able counsellor.”

“But this is not all,” cried Bernard, passionately. “Does not your own heart tell you that
there must be something more than friendship to satisfy the longings of a true heart? Oh, Virginia—yes,
permit me to call you by a name now doubly dear to me, as the home of my adoption and as the
object of my earnest love. Dearest Virginia, sweet though it be to the heart of a lonely orphan,
drifting like a sailless vessel in this rugged world, to have such a friend, yet sweeter far
would it be to live in the sunlight of your love.”

“Mr. Bernard!” exclaimed Virginia, with unfeigned surprise.

“Nay, dearest, do you, can you wonder at this revelation? I had striven, but in vain, to conceal
a hope which I knew was too daring. Oh, do not by a word destroy the faint ray which has struggled
so bravely in my heart.”

“Mr. Bernard,” said Virginia, as she withdrew her arm from his, “I can no longer permit this.
If your feelings be such as you profess, and as I believe they are—for I know your nature to
be honorable—I regret that I can only respect a sentiment which I can never return.”

“Oh, say not thus, my own Virginia, just as a new life begins to dawn upon me. At least be
not so hasty in a sentence which seals my fate forever.”

“I am not too hasty,” replied Virginia. “But I would think myself unworthy of the love you
have expressed, if I held out hopes which can never be realized. You know my position is a
peculiar one. My hand but not my heart is disengaged. Nor could you respect the love of a woman
who could so soon forget one with whom she had promised to unite her destiny through life.
I have spoken thus freely, Mr. Bernard, because I think it due to your feelings, and because
I am assured that what I say is entrusted to an honourable man.”

“Indeed, my dear Miss Temple, if such you can only be to me,” said her wily lover, “I do respect
from my heart your constancy to your first love. That unwavering devotion to another, whom
I esteem, because he is loved by you, only makes you more worthy to be won. May I not still
hope that time may supply the niche, made vacant in your heart, by another whose whole life
shall be devoted to the one object of making you happy?”

“Mr. Bernard, candour compels me to say no, my friend; there are vows which even time, with
its destroying hand can never erase, and which are rendered stronger and more sacred by the
very circumstances which prevent their accomplishment. Fate, my friend, may interpose her stern
decree and forever separate me from the presence of Mr. Hansford, but my heart is still unchangeably
his. Ha! what is that?” she added, with a faint scream, as from the little summer-house, which
we have before described, there came a deep, prolonged groan.

As she spoke, and as Bernard laid his hand upon his sword to avenge himself upon the intruder,
a dark figure issued from the door of the arbor, and stood before them. The young man stood
appalled as he recognized by the uncertain light of a neighbouring lamp, the dark, swarthy
features of Master Hutchinson, the chaplain of the Governor.

“Put up your sword, young man,” said the preacher, gravely; “they who use the sword shall perish
by the sword.”

“In the devil's name,” cried Bernard, forgetful of the presence of Virginia, “how came you here?”

“Not to act the spy at least,” said Hutchinson, “such is not my character. Suffice it to say,
that I came as you did, to enjoy this fresh air—and sought the quiet of this arbour to be free
from the intrusion of others. I have lived too long to care for the frivolities which I have
heard, and your secret is safe in my breast—a repository of many a darker confidence than that.”
With these words the bent form of the melancholy preacher passed out of their sight.

“A singular man,” said Bernard, in a troubled voice, “but entirely innocent in his conduct.
An abstracted book-worm, he moves through the world like a stranger in it. Will you return now?”

“Thank you,” said Virginia, “most willingly—for I confess my nerves are a little unstrung by
the fright I received. And now, my friend, pardon me for referring to what has passed, but
you will still be my friend, won't you?”

“Oh, certainly,” said Bernard, in an abstracted manner. “I wonder,” he muttered “what he could
have meant by that hideous groan?”

And sadly and silently the rejected lover and his unhappy companion returned to the heartless
throng, who still lit up the palace with their hollow smiles.

Alike the joyous dance, the light mirth, and the splendid entertainment passed unheeded by
Virginia, as she sat silently abstracted, and returned indifferent answers to the questions
which were asked her. And Bernard, the gay and fascinating Bernard, wandered through the crowd,
like a troubled spectre, and ever and anon muttered to himself, “I wonder what he could have
meant by that hideous groan?”

CHAPTER XIX.

    “His heart has not half uttered itself yet,
    And much remains to do as well as they.
    The heart is sometime ere it finds its focus,
    And when it does with the whole light of nature
    Strained through it to a hair's breadth, it but burns
    The things beneath it which it lights to death.”
                                                    Festus.

And now the ball is over. Mothers wait impatiently for their fair daughters, who are having
those many last words so delightful to them, and so provoking to those who await their departure.
Carriages again drive to the door, and receive their laughing, bright-eyed burdens, and then
roll away through the green lawn, while the lamps throw their broad, dark shadows on the grass.
Gay young cavaliers, who have come from a distance to the ball, exchange their slippers for
their heavy riding-boots and spurs, and mount their pawing and impatient steeds. Sober-sided
old statesmen walk away arm-in-arm, and discuss earnestly the business of the morrow. The gamesters
and dicers depart, some with cheerful smiles, chuckling over their gains, and others with empty
pockets, complaining how early the party had broken up, and proposing a renewal of the game
the next night at the Blue Chamber at the Garter Inn. Old Presley has evidently, to use his
own phrase, “got his load,” and waddling away to his quarters, he winks his eye mischievously
at the lamps, which, under the multiplying power of his optics, have become more in number
than the stars. Thus the guests all pass away, and the lights which flit for a few moments
from casement to casement in the palace, are one by one extinguished, and all is dark, save
where one faint candle gleams through an upper window and betrays the watchfulness of the old
chaplain.

And who is he, with his dark, melancholy eyes, which tell so plainly of the chastened heart—he
who seeming so gentle and kind to all, reserves his sternness for himself alone—and who, living
in love with all God's creatures, seems to hate with bitterness his own nature? It was not
then as it is sometimes now, that every man's antecedents were inquired into and known, and
that the young coxcomb, who disgraces the name that he bears and the lineage of which he boasts,
is awarded a higher station in society than the self-sustaining and worthy son of toil, who
builds his reputation on the firmer foundation of substantial worth. Every ship brought new
emigrants from England, who had come to share the fate and to develope the destiny of the new
colony, and who immediately assumed the position in society to which their own merit entitled
them. And thus it was, that when Arthur Hutchinson came to Virginia, no one asked, though many
wondered, what had blighted his heart, and cast so dark a shadow on his path. There was one
man in the colony, and one alone, who had known him before—and yet Alfred Bernard, with whom
he had come to Virginia, seemed to know little more of his history and his character than those
to whom he was an entire stranger.

Arthur Hutchinson was in appearance about fifty years of age. His long hair, which had once
been black as the raven's wing, but was now thickly sprinkled with grey, fell profusely over
his stooping shoulders. There was that, too, in the deep furrows on his broad brow, and in
the expression of his pale thin lips which told that time and sorrow had laid their heavy hands
upon him. As has been before remarked, by the recommendation of Lord Berkeley, which had great
weight with his brother, Hutchinson had been installed as Chaplain to Sir William, and through
his influence with the vestry, presented to the church in Jamestown. Although, with his own
private resources, the scanty provision of sixteen thousand pounds of tobacco per annum, (rated
at about eighty pounds sterling,) was ample for his comfortable support, yet good Master Hutchinson
had found it very convenient to accept Sir William Berkeley's invitation to make his home at
the palace. Here, surrounded by his books, which he regarded more as cheerful companions, than
as grim instructors, he passed his life rather in inoffensive meditation than in active usefulness.
The sad and quiet reserve of his manners, which seemed to spring from the memory of some past
sorrow, that while it had ceased to give pain, was still having its silent effect upon its
victim, made him the object of pity to all around him. The fervid eloquence and earnestness
of his sermons carried conviction to the minds of the doubting, arrested the attention of the
thoughtless and the wayward, and administered the balm of consolation to the afflicted child
of sorrow. The mysterious influence which he exerted over the proud spirit of Alfred Bernard,
even by one reproving glance from those big, black, melancholy eyes, struck all who knew them
with astonishment. He took but little interest in the political condition of the colony, or
in the state of society around him, and while, by this estrangement, and his secluded life,
he made but few warm friends, he made no enemies. The good people of the parish were content
to let the parson pursue his own quiet life undisturbed, and he lost none of their respect,
while he gained much of their regard by his refusal to make the influence of the church the
weapon of political warfare.

Hutchinson, who had retired to his room some time before the guests had separated, was quietly
reading from one of the old fathers, when his attention was arrested by a low tap at the door,
which he at once recognized as Bernard's. At the intimation to come in, the young man entered,
and throwing himself into a chair, he rested his face upon his hand, and sighed deeply.

“Alfred,” said the preacher, after watching him for a moment in silence, “I am glad you have
come. I have somewhat to say to you.”

“Well, sir, I will hear you patiently. What would you say?”

“I would warn you against letting a young girl divert you from the pursuit of higher objects
than are to be attained by love.”

“How, sir?” exclaimed Bernard, with surprise.

“Alfred Bernard, look at me. Read in this pale withered visage, these sunken cheeks, this bent
form, and this broken heart, the brief summary of a history which cannot yet be fully known.
You have seen and known that I am not as other men—that I walk through the world a stranger
here, and that my home is in the dark dungeon of my own bitter thoughts. Would you know what
has thus severed the chain which bound me to the world? Would you know what it is that has
blighted a heart which might have borne rich fruit, and turned it to ashes? Would you know
what is the vulture, too cruel to destroy, which feeds upon this doomed form?”

“In God's name, Mr. Hutchinson, why do you speak thus wildly?” said Bernard, for he had never
before heard such language fall from the lips of the reserved and quiet preacher. “I know that
you have had your sorrows, for the foot-prints of sorrow are indeed on you, but I have often
admired the stoical philosophy with which you have borne the burden of care.”

“Stoical philosophy!” exclaimed the preacher, pressing his hand to his heart. “The name that
the world has given to the fire which burns here, and whose flame is never seen. Think you
the pain is less, because all the heat is concentrated in the heart, not fanned into a flame
by the breath of words?”

“Well, call it what you will,” said Bernard, “and suffer as you will, but why reserve until
to-night a revelation which you have so long refused to make?”

“Simply because to-night I have seen and heard that which induces me to warn you from the course
that you are pursuing. Young man, beware how you seek your happiness in a woman's smile.”

“You must excuse me, my old friend,” said Bernard, smiling, “if I remind you of an old adage
which teaches us that a burnt child dreads the fire. If trees were sentient, would you have
them to fly from the generous rain of heaven, by which they grow, and live, and bloom, because,
forsooth, one had been blasted by the lightning of the storm?”

Hutchinson only replied with a melancholy shake of the head, and the two men gazed at each
other in silence. Bernard, with all his sagacity and knowledge of human nature, in vain attempted
to read the secret thoughts of his old guardian, whose dark eyes, lit up for a moment with
excitement, had now subsided into the pensive melancholy which we have more than once remarked.
The affectionate solicitude with which he had ever treated him, prevented Bernard from being
offended at his freedom, and yet, with a vexed heart, he vainly strove to solve a mystery which
thus seemed to surround Virginia and himself, who, until a few days before, had been entire
strangers to each other.

“Alfred Bernard,” said the old man at length, with his sweet gentle voice, “do you remember
your father? You are very like him.”

“How can you ask me such a question, when you yourself have told me so often that I never saw him.”

“True, I had forgotten,” returned Hutchinson, with a sigh, “but your mother you remember?”

“Oh yes,” said the young man, with a tear starting in his eye, “I can never forget her sad,
pensive countenance. I have been a wild, bad man, Mr. Hutchinson, but often in my darkest hours,
the memory of my mother would come over me, as though her spirit, like a dove, was descending
from her place in heaven to watch over her boy. Alas! I feel that if I had followed the precepts
which she taught me, I would now be a better and a happier man.”

No heart is formed entirely hard; there are moments and memories which melt the most obdurate
heart, as the wand of the prophet smote water from the rock. And Alfred Bernard, with all his
cold scepticism and selfish nature, was for a moment sincerely repentant.

“I have often thought, Mr. Hutchinson,” he continued, “that if it had pleased heaven to give
me some near relative on earth, around whom my heart could delight to cling, I would have been
a better man. Some kind brother who could aid and sympathize with me in my struggle with the
world, or some gentle sister, in whose love I could confide, and to whose sweet society I might
repair from the bitter trials of this rugged life; if these had been vouchsafed me, my heart
would have expanded into more sympathy with my race than it can ever now feel.”

Hutchinson smiled sadly, and replied—

“It has been my object in life, Alfred Bernard, to supply the place of those nearer and dearer
objects of affection which have been denied you. I hope in this I have not been unsuccessful.”

“I am aware, Mr. Hutchinson,” said Bernard, bitterly, “that to you I am indebted for my education
and support. I hope I have ever manifested a becoming sense of gratitude, and I only regret
that in this alone am I able to repay you.”

“And do you think that I wished to remind you of your dependence, Alfred? Oh, no—you owe me
nothing. I have discharged towards you a solemn, a sacred duty, which you had a right to claim.
I took you, a little homeless orphan, and sought to cultivate your mind and train your heart.
In the first you have done more than justice to my tuition and my care. I am proud of the plant
that I have reared. But how have you repaid me? You have imbibed sentiments and opinions abhorrent
to all just and moral men. You have slighted my advice, and at times have even threatened the
adviser.”

“If you refer to the difference in our faith,” said Bernard, “you must remember that it was
from your teachings that I derived the warrant to follow the dictates of my conscience and
my reason. If they have led me into error, you must charge it upon these monitors which God
has given me. You cannot censure me.”

“I confess I am to blame,” said the good old man, with a sigh. “But who could have thought,
that when, with my hard earnings, I had saved enough to send you to France, in order to give
you a more extensive acquaintance with the world you were about to enter—who would have thought
that it would result in your imbibing such errors as these! Oh, my son, what freedom of conscience
is there in a faith like papacy, which binds your reason to the will of another? And what purity
can there be in a religion which you dare not avow?”

“Naaman bowed in the house of Rimmon,” returned Bernard, carelessly, “and if the prophet forgave
him for thus following the customs of his nation, that he might retain a profitable and dignified
position, I surely may be forgiven, under a milder dispensation, for suppressing my real sentiments
in order to secure office and preferment.”

“Alas!” murmured Hutchinson, bitterly. “Well, it is a sentiment worthy of Edward's son. But
go, my poor boy, proud in your reason, which but leads you astray—wresting scripture in order
to justify hypocrisy, and profaning religion with vice. You shall not yet want my prayers that
you may be redeemed from error.”

“Well, good night,” said Bernard, as he opened the door. “But do me the justice to say, that
though I may be deceitful, I can never be ungrateful, nor can I forget your kindness to a desolate
orphan.” And so saying, he closed the door, and left the old chaplain to the solitude of his
own stricken heart.

CHAPTER XX.

    “Oh, tiger's heart, wrapt in a woman's hide.”
                                            Henry VI.

Brightly shone the sun through the window of the Garter Inn, at which Virginia Temple sat on
the morning after the ball at Sir William Berkeley's palace. Freed from the restraints of society,
she gave her caged thoughts their freedom, and they flew with delight to Hansford. She reproved
herself for the appearance of gaiety which she had assumed, while he was in so much danger;
and she inwardly resolved that, not even to please her mother, would she be guilty again of
such hypocrisy. She felt that she owed it to Hansford, to herself, and to others, to act thus.
To Hansford, because his long and passionate love, and his unstained name, deserved a sacrifice
of the world and its joys to him. To herself, because sad as were her reflections on the past,
and fearful as were her apprehensions for the future, there was still a melancholy pleasure
in dwelling on the memory of her love—far sweeter to her wounded heart than all the giddy gaiety
of the world around her. And to others, because, but for her assumed cheerfulness, the feelings
of Alfred Bernard, her generous and gifted friend, would have been spared the sore trial to
which they had been subjected the night before. She was determined that another noble soul
should not make shipwreck of its happiness, by anchoring its hopes on her own broken heart.

Such were her thoughts, as she leaned her head upon her hand and gazed out of the window at
the throng of people who were hurrying toward the state-house. For this was to be a great day
in legislation. The Indian Bill was to be up in committee, and the discussion would be an able
one, in which the most prominent members of the Assembly were to take part. She had seen the
Governor's carriage, with its gold and trappings, the Berkeley coat-of-arms, and its six richly
caparisoned white horses, roll splendidly by, with an escort of guards, by which Sir William
was on public occasions always attended. She had seen the Burgesses, with their reports, their
petitions and their bills, some conversing carelessly and merrily as they passed, and others
with thoughtful countenance bent upon the ground, cogitating on some favourite scheme for extricating
the colony from its dangers. She had seen Alfred Bernard pass on his favourite horse, and he
had turned his eyes to the window and gracefully saluted her; but in that brief moment she
saw that the scenes through which he had passed the night before were still in his memory,
and had made a deep impression on his heart. On the plea of a sick head-ache, she had declined
to go with her mother to the “House,” and the good old lady had gone alone with her husband,
deploring, as she went, the little interest which the young people of the present day took
in the politics and prosperity of their country.

While thus silently absorbed in her own thoughts, the attention of Virginia Temple was arrested
by the door of her room being opened, and on looking up, she saw before her the tall figure
of a strange, wild looking woman, whom she had never seen before. This woman, despite the warmth
of the weather, was wrapped in a coarse red shawl, which gave a striking and picturesque effect
to her singular appearance. Her features were prominent and regular, and the face might have
been considered handsome if it were not for the exceeding coarseness of her swarthy skin. Her
jet-black hair, not even confined by a comb, was secured by a black riband behind, and passing
over the right shoulder, fell in a heavy mass over her bosom. Her figure was tall and straight
as an Indian's, and her bare brawny arms, which escaped from under her shawl, gave indications
of great physical strength; while there was that in the expression of her fierce black eye,
and her finely formed mouth, which showed that there was no mere woman's heart in that masculine
form.

The wild appearance and attire of the woman inspired Virginia with terror at first, but she
suppressed the scream which rose to her lips, and in an agitated voice, she asked,

“What would you have with me, madam?”

“What are you frightened at, girl,” said the woman in a shrill, coarse voice, “don't you see
that I am a woman?”

“Yes, ma'am,” said Virginia, trembling, “I am not frightened, ma'am.”

“You are frightened—I see you are,” returned her strange guest.—“But if you fear, you are not
worthy to be the wife of a brave man—come, deny nothing—I can read you like a book—and easier,
for it is but little that I know from books, except my Bible.”

“Are you a gipsey, ma'am?” said Virginia, softly, for she had heard her father speak of that
singular race of vagrants, and the person and language of the stranger corresponded with the
idea which she had formed of them.

“A gipsey! no, I am a Virginian—and a brave man's wife, as you would be—but that prejudice
and fear keep you still in Egyptian bondage. The time has come for woman to act her part in
the world—and for you, Virginia Temple, to act yours.”

“But what would you have me to do?” asked Virginia, surprised at the knowledge which the stranger
seemed to possess of her history.

“Do!” shrieked the woman, “your duty—that which every human creature, man or woman, is bound
before high heaven to do. Aid in the great work which God this day calls upon his Israel to
do—to redeem his people from captivity and from the hand of those who smite us.”

“My good woman,” said Virginia, who now began to understand the character of the strange intruder,
“it is not for me, may I add, it is not for our sex to mingle in contests like the present.
We can but humbly pray that He who controls the affairs of this world, may direct in virtue
and in wisdom, the hearts of both rulers and people.”

“And why should we only pray,” said the woman sternly, “when did Heaven ever answer prayer,
except when our own actions carried the prayer into effect. Have you not learned, have you
not known, hath it not been told you from the foundation of the world, that faith without works
was dead.”

“But there is no part which a woman can consistently take in such a contest as the present,
even should she so far forget her true duties as to wish to engage in it.”

“Girl, have you read your bible, or are you one of those children of the scarlet woman of Babylon,
to whom the word of God is a closed book—to whom the waters from the fountain of truth can
only come through the polluted lips of priests—as unclean birds feed their offspring. Do you
not know that it was a woman, even Rahab, who saved the spies sent out from Shittem to view
the land of promise? Do you not know that Miriam joined with the hosts of Israel in the triumph
of their deliverance from the hand of Pharaoh? Do you not know that Deborah, the wife of Lapidoth,
judged Israel, and delivered Jacob from the hands of Jabin, king of Canaan, and Sisera the
captain of his host—and did not Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, rescue Israel from the
hands of Sisera? Surely she fastened the nail in a sure place, and the wife of Sisera, tarried
long ere his chariot should come—and shall we in these latter days of Israel be less bold than
they? Tell me not of prayers, Virginia Temple, cowards alone pray blindly for assistance. It
is the will of God that the brave should be often under Heaven, the answerers of their own
prayers.”

“And pray tell me,” said Virginia, struck with the wild, biblical eloquence of the Puritan
woman, “why you have thus come to me among so many of the damsels of Virginia, to urge me to
engage in this enterprise.”

“Because I was sent. Because one of the captains of our host has sought the hand of Virginia
Temple. Ah, blush, maiden, for the blush of shame well becomes one who has deserted her lover,
because he has laid aside every weight, and pressed forward to the prize of his high calling.
Yet a little while, and the brave men of Virginia will be here to show the malignant Berkeley,
that the servant is not greater than his lord—that they who reared up this temple of his authority,
can rase it to the ground and bury him in its ruins. I come from Thomas Hansford, to ask that
you will under my guidance meet him where I shall appoint to-night.”

“This is most strange conduct on his part,” said Virginia, flushing with indignation, “nor
will I believe him guilty of it. Why did he entrust a message like this to you instead of writing?”

“A warrior writes with his sword and in blood,” replied the woman. “Think you that they who
wander in the wilderness, are provided with pen or ink to write soft words of love to silly
maidens? But he foresaw that you would refuse, and he gave me a token—I fear a couplet from
a carnal song.”

“What is it?” cried Virginia, anxiously.

    “'I had not loved thee, dear, so much,
    Loved I not honour more,'”

said the woman, in a low voice. “Thus the words run in my memory.”

“And it is indeed a true token,” said Virginia, “but once for all, I cannot consent to this
singular request.”

“Decide not in haste, lest you repent at leisure,” returned the woman, “I will come to-night
at ten o'clock to receive your final answer. And regret not, Virginia Temple, that your fate
is thus linked with a brave man. The babe unborn will yet bless the rising in this country—and
children shall rise up and call us blest.[36] And, oh! as you would prove worthy of him who
loves you, abide not thou like Reuben among the sheep-folds to hear the bleating of the flocks,
and you will yet live to rejoice that you have turned a willing ear to the words and the counsel
of Sarah Drummond.”

There was a pause of some moments, during which Virginia was wrapt in her own reflections concerning
the singular message of Hansford, rendered even more singular by the character and appearance
of the messenger. Suddenly she was startled from her reverie by the blast of a trumpet, and
the distant trampling of horses' hoofs. Sarah Drummond also started at the sound, but not from
the same cause, for she heard in that sound the blast of defiance—the trumpet of freedom, as
its champions advanced to the charge.

“They come, they come,” she said, in her wild, shrill voice; “my Lord, my Lord, the chariots
of Israel and the horsemen thereof—I go, like Miriam of old, to prophecy in their cause, and
to swell their triumph. Farewell. Remember, at ten o'clock to-night I return for your final
answer.”

With these words she burst from the room, and Virginia soon seen her tall form, with hasty
strides, moving toward the place from which the sound proceeded.

FOOTNOTES:

[36] This was her very language during the rebellion.

CHAPTER XXI.

And nearer, and nearer, came the sound, and the cloud of dust which already rose in the street,
announced their near approach. And then, Virginia saw emerging from that cloud a proud figure,
mounted on a splendid grey charger, which pranced and champed his bit, as though proud of the
noble burden which he bore. And well he might be proud, for that young gallant rider was Nathaniel
Bacon, a man who has left his name upon his country's history, despite the efforts to defame
him, as the very embodiment of the spirit of freedom. And he looked every inch a hero, as with
kingly mien and gallant bearing he rode through that crowded street, the great centre of attraction
to all.

Beside him and around him were those, his friends and his companions, who had sworn to share
his success, or to perish in the attempt.

There was the burley Richard Lawrence, not yet bent under the weight of his growing years.
There was Carver, the bold, intrepid and faithful Carver, whose fidelity yet lives historically
in his rough, home-brewed answer to the Governor, that “if he served the devil he would be
true to his trust.” There too was the young and graceful form of one whose name has been honoured
by history, and cherished by his descendants—whose rising glory has indeed been eclipsed by
others of his name more successful, but not more worthy of success—nor can that long, pure
cavalier lineage boast a nobler ancestor than the high-souled, chivalrous, and devoted Giles
Bland. There too were Ingram, and Walklate, and Wilford, and Farloe, and Cheesman, and a host
of others, whom time would fail us to mention, and yet, each one of whom, a pioneer in freedom's
cause, deserves to be freshly remembered. And there too, and the heart of Virginia Temple beat
loud and quick as she beheld him, was the gallant Hansford, whom she loved so well; and as
she gazed upon his noble figure, now foremost in rebellion, the old love came back gushing
into her heart, and she half forgave his grievous sin, and loved him as before.

These all passed on, and the well-regulated band of four hundred foot-soldiers, all armed and
disciplined for action, followed on, ready and anxious to obey their noble leader, even unto
death. Among these were many, who, through their lives had been known as loyalists, who upheld
the councils of the colony in their long resistance to the usurpation of the Protector, and
who hailed the restoration of their king as a personal triumph to each and all. There too were
those who had admired Cromwell, and sustained his government, and some few grey-headed veterans
who even remembered to have fought under the banner of John Hampden—Cavaliers and Roundheads,
Episcopalians and Dissenters; old men, who had heretofore passed through life regardless of
the forms of government under which they lived; and young men, whose ardent hearts burned high
with the spirit of liberty—all these discordant elements had been united in the alembic of
freedom, and hand-in-hand, and heart-in-heart, were preparing for the struggle. And Virginia
Temple thought, as she gazed from the window upon their manly forms, that after all, rebellion
was not confined to the ignoble and the base.

On, on, still on, and now they have reached the gate which is the grand entrance to the state-house
square. The crowd of eager citizens throng after them, and with the fickle sympathy of the
mob unite in loud shouts of “Long live Bacon, the Champion of Freedom.” And now they are drawn
up in bristling column before the hall of the assembly, while the windows are crowded thick
with the pale, anxious faces of the astounded burgesses. But see! the leaders dismount, and
their horses are given in charge to certain of the soldiers. Conspicuous among them all is
Nathaniel Bacon, from his proud and imperial bearing as he walks with impatient steps up and
down the line, and reads their resolution in the faces of the men.

“What will he do!” is whispered from the white and agitated lips of the trembling burgesses.

“This comes of the faithless conduct of Berkeley,” says one.

“Yes; I always said that Bacon should have his commission,” says another.

“It is downright murder to deny him the right to save the colony from the savages,” says a third.

“And we must suffer for the offences of a despotic old dotard,” said the first speaker.

“Say you so, masters,” cried out old Presley, wedging his huge form between two of his brethren
at the window—and all his loyalty of the preceding night having oozed out at his fingers' ends,
like Bob Acres' courage, at the first approach of danger—“say you so; then, by God, it is my
advice to let him put out the fire of his own raising.”

But see there! Bacon and his staff are conferring together. It will soon be known what is his
determination. It is already read in his fierce and angry countenance as he draws his sword
half way from its scabbard, and frowns upon the milder councils of Hansford and Bland. Presently
a servant of one of the members comes in with pale, affrighted looks, and whispers to his master.
He has overheard the words of Bacon, which attended that ominous gesture.

“I will bear a little while. But when you see my sword drawn from my scabbard, thus, let that
be the signal for attack. Then strike for freedom, for truth, and for justice.”

The burgesses look in wild alarm at each other. What is to be done? It were vain to resist.
They are unarmed. The rebels more than quadruple Governor, Council, and Assembly. Let those
suffer who have incurred the wrath of freemen. Let the lightning fall upon him who has called
it down. For ourselves, let us make peace.

In a moment a white handkerchief suspended on the usher's rod streams from the window, an emblem
of peace, an advocate for mercy, and with one accordant shout, which rings through the halls
of the state-house, the burgesses declare that he shall have his commission.

Bacon sees the emblem. He hears the shout. His dark eye flashes with delight as he hails this
bloodless victory over the most formidable department of the government. The executive dare
not hold out against the will of the Assembly. But the victory is not yet consummated.

Suddenly from the lips of the excited soldiery comes a wild cry, and following the direction
of their eyes, he sees Sir William Berkeley standing at the open window of the Council Chamber.
Yes, there stands the proud old man, with form erect and noble—his face somewhat paler, and
his eagle eye somewhat brighter than usual. But these are the only signs he gives of emotion,
as he looks down upon that hostile crowd, with a smile of bitter scorn encircling his lip.
He quails not, he blenches not, before that angry foe. His pulse beats calmly and regularly,
for it is under the control of the brave great heart, which knows no fear. And there he stands,
all calm and silent, like a firm-set rock that defies in its iron strength the fury of the
storm that beats against it.

Yet Berkeley is in danger. He is the object, the sole object, of the bitter hate of that incensed
and indignant soldiery. He has pledged and he has broken his word to them, and when did broken
faith ever fail to arouse the indignation of Virginians? He has denied them the right to protect,
by organized force, their homes and their firesides from the midnight attacks of ruthless savages.
He has advised the passage of laws restricting their commerce, and reducing the value of their
staples. He has urged the erection of forts throughout the colony, armed with a regular soldiery,
supported in their idleness by the industry of Virginians, and whose sole object is to check
the kindling flame of liberty among the people. He has sanctioned and encouraged the exercise
of power by Parliament to tax an unrepresented colony. He has advised and upheld His Majesty
in depriving the original patentees of immense tracts of land, and lavishing them as princely
donations upon fawning favourites. He has refused to represent to the king the many grievances
of the colony, and to urge their redress, and, although thus showing himself to be a tyrant
over a free people, he has dared to urge, through his servile commissioners, his appointment
as Governor for life.

Such were some of the many causes of discontent among the colonists which had so inflamed them
against Sir William Berkeley. And now, there he stood before them, calm in spite of their menaces,
unrelenting in spite of their remonstrances. Without a word of command, and with one accord
a hundred fusils were pointed at the breast of the brave old Governor. It was a moment of intense
excitement—of terrible suspense. But even then his courage and his self-reliance forsook him
not. Tearing open his vest, and presenting himself at the window more fully to their attack,
he cried out in a firm voice:

“Aye, shoot! 'Fore God, a fair mark. Infatuated men, bury your wrongs here in my heart. I dare
you to do your worst!”

“Down with your guns!” shouted Bacon, angrily. But it needed not the order of their leader
to cause them to drop their weapons in an instant. The calm smile which still played around
the countenance of the old Governor, the unblenching glance of that eagle eye, and the unawed
manner in which he dared them to revenge, all had their effect in allaying the resentment of
the soldiers. And with this came the memory of the olden time, when he was so beloved by his
people, because so just and gentle. Something of this old feeling now returned, and as they
lowered their weapons a tear glistened in many a hardy soldier's eye.

With the quick perception of true genius, Nathaniel Bacon saw the effect produced. Well aware
of the volatile materials with which he had to work, he dreaded a revolution in the feelings
of the men. Anxious to smother the smouldering ashes of loyalty before they were fanned into
a flame, he cried with a loud voice,

“Not a hair of your head shall be touched. No, nor of any man's. I come for justice, not for
vengeance. I come to plead for the mercy which ill-judged and cruel delay has long denied this
people. I come to plead for the living—my argument may be heard from the dead. The voices of
murdered Englishmen call to you from the ground. We demand a right, guarantied by the sacred
and inviolable law of self-preservation! A right! guarantied by the plighted but violated word
of an English knight and a Virginia Governor. A right! which I now hold by the powerful, albeit
unwritten, sanction of these, the sovereigns of Virginia.”

The last artful allusion of Bacon entirely restored the confidence of his soldiers, and with
loud cries they shouted in chorus, “And we will have it!—we will have it!”

Berkeley listened patiently to this brief address, and then turned from the window where he
was standing, and took his seat at the council-table. Here, too, he was surrounded by many
who, either alarmed at the menaces of the rebels, and convinced of the futility of resisting
their demands, or, what is more probable, who had a secret sympathy in the causes of the rebellion,
exerted all their influence in mollifying the wrath and obstinacy of the old Governor. But
it was all in vain. To every argument or persuasion which was urged, his only reply was,

“To have forced from me by rebels the trust confided in me by my king! To yield to force what
I denied to petition! No, Gentlemen; 'fore God, if the authority of my master's government
must be overcome in Virginia, let me perish with it. I wish no higher destiny than to be a
martyr, like my royal master, Charles the First, to the cause of truth and justice. Let them
rob me of my life when they rob me of my trust.”

While thus the councillors were vainly endeavoring to persuade the old man to yield to the
current which had so set against him, he was surprised by a slight touch on his shoulder, and
on looking up he saw Alfred Bernard standing before him. The young man bent over, and in a
low whisper uttered these significant words:

“The commission, extorted by force, is null and void when the duress is removed.”

Struck by a view so apposite to his condition, and so entirely tallying with his own wishes,
the impetuous old Governor fairly leaped from his chair and grasped the hand of his young adviser.

“Right, by God!” he said; “right, my son. Gentlemen, this young man's counsel is worth all
of your's. Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings—however, Alfred, you would not relish a
compliment paid at the expense of your manhood.”

“What does the young man propose?” drawled the phlegmatic old Cole, who was one of the council
board.

“That I should yield to the current when I must, and resist it when I can,” cried Berkeley,
exultingly. “Loyalty must only bow to the storm, as the tree bows before the tempest. The most
efficient resistance is apparent concession.”

The councillors were astounded. Sprung from that chivalric Anglo-Saxon race, who respected
honour more than life, and felt a stain like a wound, they could scarcely believe their senses
when they thus heard the Governor of Virginia recommending deceit and simulation to secure
his safety. To them, rebellion was chiefly detestable because it was an infraction of the oath
of loyalty. It could scarcely be more base than the premeditated perjury which Sir William
contemplated. Many an angry eye and dark scowl was bent on Alfred Bernard, who met them with
an easy and defiant air. The silence that ensued expressed more clearly than words the disapprobation
of the council. At length old Ballard, one of the most loyal and esteemed members of the council,
hazarded an expression of his views.

“Sir William Berkeley, let me advise you as your counsellor, and warn you as your friend, to
avoid the course prescribed by that young man. What effect can your bad faith with these misguided
persons have, but to exasperate them?—and when once aroused, and once deceived, be assured
that all attempts at reconciliation will be vain. I speak plainly, but I do so because not
only your own safety, but the peace and prosperity of the colony are involved in your decision.
Were not the broken pledges of that unhappy Stuart, to whom you have referred, the causes of
that fearful revolution which alienated the affections of his subjects and at length cost him
his life? Charles Stuart has not died in vain, if, by his death and his sufferings, he has
taught his successors in power that candour, moderation and truth are due from a prince to
his people. But, alas! what oceans of blood must be shed ere man will learn those useful lessons,
which alone can ensure his happiness and secure his authority.”

“Zounds, Ballard,” said the incensed old ruler, “you have mistaken your calling. I have not
heard so fine a sermon this many a day, and, 'fore God, if you will only renounce politics,
and don gown and cassock, I will have you installed forthwith in my dismal Hutchinson's living.
But,” he added, more seriously, as the smile of bitter derision faded from his lips, “I well
e'en tell you that you have expressed yourself a matter too freely, and have forgotten what
you owe to position and authority.”

“I have forgotten neither, sir,” said Ballard, firmly but calmly. “I owe respect to position,
even though I may not have it for the man who holds that position; and when authority is abused,
I owe it alike to myself and to the people to check it so far as I may.”

The flush of passion mounted to the brow of Berkeley, as he listened to these words; but with
a violent effort he checked the angry retort which rose to his lips, and turning to the rest
of the council, he said:

“Well, gentlemen, I will submit the proposition to you. Shall the commission of General of
the forces of Virginia be granted to Nathaniel Bacon?”

“Nay, Governor,” interposed another of the council, “we would know whether you intend—”

“It is of my actions that you must advise. Leave my motives to me. What do you advise? Shall
the commission be granted?”

“Aye,” was responded in turn by each of the councillors at the board, and at the same moment
the heavy tramp of approaching footsteps was heard, and Bacon, attended by Lawrence, Bland
and Hansford, entered the chamber.

The council remained seated and covered, and preserved the most imperturbable silence. It was
a scene not unlike that of that ancient senate, who, unable to resist the attack of barbarians,
evinced their pride and bravery by their contemptuous silence. The sun was shining brightly
through the western windows of the chamber, and his glaring rays, softened and coloured by
the rich red curtains of damask, threw a deeper flush upon the cheeks of the haughty old councillors.
With their eyes fixed upon the intruders, they patiently awaited the result of the interview.
On the other hand, the attitude and behaviour of the rebels was not less calm and dignified.
They had evidently counselled well before they had determined to intrude thus upon the deliberations
of the council. It was with no angry or impatient outburst of passion, with no air of triumph,
that they came. They knew their rights, and had come to claim and maintain them.

There were two men there, and they the youngest of that mixed assembly, who viewed each other
with looks of darker hatred than the rest. The wound inflicted in Hansford's heart at Windsor
Hall had not yet been healed—and with that tendency to injustice so habitual to lovers, with
the proclivity of all men to seek out some one whom they may charge as the author of their
own misfortune, he viewed Bernard with feelings of distrust and enmity. He felt, too, or rather
he feared, that the heart left vacant by his own exclusion from it, might be filled with this
young rival. Bernard, on the other hand, had even stronger reason of dislike, and if such motives
could operate even upon the noble mind of Hansford, with how much greater force would they
impress the selfish character of the young jesuit. The recollection of that last scene with
Virginia in the park, of her unwavering devotion to her rebel lover, and her disregard of his
own feelings came upon him now with renewed force, as he saw that rebel rival stand before
him. Even if filial regard for her father's wishes and a sense of duty to herself would forever
prevent her alliance with Hansford, Alfred Bernard felt that so long as his rival lived there
was an insuperable obstacle to his acquisition of her estate, an object which he prized even
more than her love. Thus these two young men darted angry glances at each other, and forgot
in their own personal aggrievements, the higher principles for which they were engaged of loyalty
on the one hand, and liberty on the other.

Bacon was the first to break silence.

“Methinks,” he said, “that your honours are not inclined to fall into the error of deciding
in haste and repenting at leisure.”

“Mr. Bacon,” said Berkeley, “you must be aware that the appearance of this armed force tends
to prejudice your claims. It would be indecorous in me to be over-awed by menaces, or to yield
to compulsion. But the necessities of the time demand that there should be an organized force,
to resist the encroachments of the Indians. It is, therefore, not from fear of your threats,
but from conviction of this necessity that I have determined to grant you the commission which
you ask, with full power to raise, equip, and provision an army, and with instructions, that
you forthwith proceed to march against the savages.”

Bacon could scarcely suppress a smile at this boastful appearance of authority and disavowal
of compulsion, on the part of the proud old Governor. It was with a thrill of rapture that
he thus at last possessed the great object of his wishes. Already idolized by the people, he
only needed a legal recognition of his authority to accomplish the great ends that he had in
view. As the commission was made out in due form, engrossed and sealed, and handed to him,
he clutched it eagerly, as though it were a sceptre of royal power. Little suspecting the design
of the wily Governor, he felt all his confidence in him restored at once, and from his generous
heart he forgave him all the past.

“This commission, though military,” he said, proudly, “is the seal of restored tranquillity
to the colony. Think not it will be perverted to improper uses. Royalty is to Virginians what
the sun is to the pious Persian. Virginia was the last to desert the setting sun of royalty,
and still lingered piously and tearfully to look upon its declining rays. She was the first
to hail the glorious restoration of its light, and as she worshipped its rising beams, she
will never seek to quench or overcloud its meridian lustre. I go, gentlemen, to restore peace
to the fireside and confidence to the hearts of this people. The sword of my country shall
never be turned against herself.”

The heightened colour of his cheek, and the bright flashing of his eye, bespoke the pride and
delight of his heart. With a profound bow he turned from the room, and with his aids, he descended
to rejoin his anxious and expectant followers. In a few moments the loud shout of the soldiery
was heard testifying their satisfaction at the result. The names of Berkeley and of Bacon were
upon their lips—and as the proud old Governor gazed from the window at that happy crowd, and
saw with the admiring eye of a brave man, the tall and martial form of Nathaniel Bacon at their
head, he scarcely regretted in that moment that his loyal name had been linked with the name
of a traitor.

CHAPTER XXII.

We return to Virginia Temple, who, although not an eye-witness of the scene which we have just
described, was far from being disinterested in its result. The words of the singular woman,
with whom she had conversed, had made some impression upon her mind. Although disgusted with
the facility with which Dame Drummond had distorted and perverted Scripture to justify her
own wild absurdities, Virginia still felt that there was much cause for self-reproach in her
conduct to her lover. She felt every assurance that though he might err, he would err from
judgment alone; and how little did she know of the questions at issue between the aroused people
and the government. Indeed, when she saw the character of those with whom Hansford was associated—men
not impelled by the blind excitement of a mob, but evidently actuated by higher principles
of right and justice, her heart misgave her that, perhaps, she had permitted prejudice to carry
her too far in her opposition to their cause. The struggle in her mind was indeed an unequal
one. It was love pleading against ignorant prejudice, and that at the forum of a woman's heart.
Can it be wondered at that Virginia Temple, left to herself, without an adviser, yielded to
the powerful plea, and freely and fully forgave her rebel lover? And when she thought, too,
that, however guilty to his country, he had, at least, been ever faithful to her, she added
to her forgiveness of him the bitterest self-reproach. On one thing she was resolved, that
notwithstanding the apparent indelicacy of such a course, she would grant him the interview
which he requested, and if she could not win him from his error, at least part from him, though
forever, as a friend. She felt that it was due to her former love, and to his unwavering devotion,
to grant this last request.

Once determined on her course, the hours rolled heavily away until the time fixed for her appointment
with Hansford. Despite her attempt to prove cheerful and unconcerned, her lynx-eyed mother
detected her sadness, but was easily persuaded that it was due to a slight head-ache, with
which she was really suffering, and which she pleaded as an excuse. The old lady was more easily
deceived, because it tallied with her own idea, that Jamestown was very unhealthy, and that
she, herself, could never breathe its unwholesome air without the most disastrous consequences
to her health.

At length, Colonel Temple, having left the crowd of busy politicians, who were discussing the
events of the day in the hall, returned with his good wife to their own room. Virginia, with
a beating heart, resumed her watch at the window, where she was to await the coming of Sarah
Drummond. Had the case that the fatality of the others under hundred are principally might to be the
see at the abbesses of St. Ben and element convent to the glories, Winchester, look to bespeak inwards
might be the date had surpass from England Frances imitated to allegory at Jamestown Winchester.
On their night nothing is cognize save that at masque was go to T. H. Lloyd, whose gens is written
of it could, of all spectators at it was publicize at jamestown suggested for discography of
old books might thus to resemble under 1900. For Rifle had aided before understand this tilt, and
called in card Romsey rejoiced of honour that the stage, who was supply for engineering could
so be establish, could once to celebrate a who could thus resemble thus resemble so pass rearward
into control, where it had been utilize in trains. It was afterwards put across area, and
of extremity, and on ovipositor which barricade up language.

It is dated 20th Hall, 1544. There are sure glories were repaired for use on Sundays, and celebrate
from measures and new Machinery, and from Tellurium who was repaired
deum hall, might eagerly benedicite, and quicunque Vult.

One of them is coronate, and all of which them had to have their rebecks with which was the hair,
and wigs, or caps; the last by extremity is the head and thrusting out
his lingua, and might possibly taken in birth and passed on sculptress.

"A figures are present risks in night, and besides to devise the St. John who are thus so correspond
in carvings and picture of Crucifixion, there are two of all soldiers, one holding the spear
by which afterwards celebrate on hand of Christ was pierced, and
when the same proffer the angel in ladies by absorbent is repaired
of vinegar.

But the service of the ancestors in it one of the oldest if not the sound had link in abbey.
Besides the Night, and the ancestors.

Hall who passed when the dice, is a gaming for FOOTNOTES of Dice on-Company, their date about 1030. Night
has occupied other ladies in idea. The might to be together apsidal
crossing is underneath to be used as card, and incorporate in representation
of the hours to resemble of sale talked of church is arrested of revolution
of the rebecks to the parishioners on Bernard in Milton and Who and
Romsey after fibrinolysis and merited of porch.

It is worth restoration was the Psalms are formerly divided that
the seventeenth 109 would to be declaim at Mattins in company who
was of hebdomad, that any others being used at Evensong during hall.#
was the Screen. The curtain that split the suggestion of a pipes of
a glories from porch was eagerly to be loyal hours, were so when
it contains tra ancient carve the birth was aided from 1372.

What the sculpture was we do not to celebrate, and it is depict for one as existence and talked
for revels for the object and reflected near porch; so be it appears
of have been construct of angel could that, and of wall, and was put
of wing was represented by spot with spot, the Rate.

Celebrate much dice. His liter.

The evening. Of engineering was erected to Ball rejoiced the sanctuary is erected for century, organize
as already from arm. There was little to devise of porch, and to celebrate with authority may be
seen of Romsey passed. The blind is coronate with sound, and only, and in twenty-three gothic trefoils,
are eagerly of the carved before men. It were thus in transept, and had divide it reflected for
soma who talked of protestant, the end was erected of pewing was make, and it was take to resemble to
suddenly to spot in it were so, yet under pushing of organ: it was today
painted. In abbey, was print in 1828, when we suggested that" there is the
surface was erected of housecraft, which could so divide the part
which is devoted up spectators of restoration.

They are thus rebecks of rush, and of the away arrested on moderate and devise the footnotes.
At# was corresponding to resemble to suddenly of the aisle is to
faintly aided up period-tomorrow

.
 But God often maketh the carnal-minded
of this world to fulfil his will, and so we must e'en bear with you yet a little while. Come,
let us pass.”

“Nay, dame,” said the old soldier, “I care but little for your abuse; but duty is duty, and
so an' ye give me not the shibboleth, as old Noll's canters would say, you may e'en tramp back.
You see, I've got some of your slang, and will fight the devil with his own fire: 'And there
fell of the children of Ephraim, at the passage of the Jordan—'”

“Hush, blasphemer!” said Sarah, impatiently. “But if you must have the pass before you can
admit us, take it.” And she leaned forward and whispered in his ear the words, “Be faithful
to the cause.”

“Right as a trivet,” said Berkenhead, “and so pass on. A fig for the consequences, so that
my skirts are clear.”

Relieved from this embarrassment, Sarah Drummond and her trembling companion passed through
the gate, and proceeded up the long gravelled walk which led to the state-house. They had not
gone far before Virginia Temple descried a dark form approaching them, and even before she
could recognize the features, her heart told her it was Hansford. In another moment she was
in his arms.

“My own Virginia, my loved one,” he cried, regardless of the presence of Mrs. Drummond, “I
scarcely dared hope that you would have kept your promise to say farewell. Come, dearest, lean
on my arm, I have much to tell you. You, my kind dame, remain here for a few moments—we will
not detain you long.”

Quietly yielding to his request, Virginia took her lover's arm, and they walked silently along
the path, leaving the good dame Drummond to digest alone her crude notions about the prospects
of Israel.

“Is it not singular,” said Hansford at length, “that before you came, I thought the brief hour
we must spend together was far too short to say half that I wish, and now I can say nothing.
The quiet feeling of love, of pure and tranquil love, banishes every other thought from my heart.”

“I fear—I fear,” murmured Virginia, “that I have done very wrong in consenting to this interview.”

“And why, Virginia,” said her lover, “even the malefactor is permitted the poor privilege of
bidding farewell forever to those around him—and am I worse than he?”

“No, Hansford, no,” replied Virginia, “but to come thus with a perfect stranger, at night,
and without my father's permission, to an interview with one who has met with his disapprobation—”

“True love,” replied Hansford, sadly, “overleaps all such feeble barriers as these—where the
happiness of the loved one is concerned.”

“And, therefore, I came,” returned the young girl, “but you forget, Hansford, that the relation
which once existed between us has, by our mutual consent, been dissolved—what then was proper
cannot now be permitted.”

“If such be the case,” replied Hansford, in an offended tone, “Miss Temple must be aware that
I am the last person to urge her to continue in a course which her judgment disapproves. May
I conduct you to your companion?”

Virginia did not at first reply. The coldness of manner which she had assumed was far from
being consonant with her real feelings, and the ingenuous girl could no longer continue the
part which she attempted to represent. After a brief pause, the natural affection of her nature
triumphed, and with the most artless frankness she said,

“Oh, no, Hansford, my tongue can no longer speak other language than that which my heart dictates.
Forgive me for what I have said. We cannot part thus.”

“Thanks, my dearest girl,” he cried, “for this assurance. The future is already too dark, for
the light of hope to be entirely withdrawn. These troublous times will soon be over, and then—”

“Nay, Hansford,” said Virginia, interrupting him, “I fear you cannot even then hope for that
happiness which you profess to anticipate in our union. These things I have thought of deeply
and sorrowfully. Whatever may be the issue of this unnatural contest, to us the result must
be the same. My father's prejudices—and without his consent, I would never yield my hand to
any one—are so strong against your cause, that come what may, they can never be removed.”

“He must himself, ere long, see the justice of our cause,” said Hansford, confidently. “It
is impossible that truth can long be hid from one, who, like your noble father, must ever be
desirous of its success.”

“And do you think,” returned Virginia, “that having failed to arrive at your conclusions in
his moments of calm reflection, he will be apt to change his opinions under the more formidable
reasoning of the bayonet? As the ft. long. The wife at the right-appendage to area there is interrupt
off: were this desired same bacon while him would be 2 mr. 3 in
grant. were satisfied cognition, sharpen downwards released with
him were again 1 ft. 3 in henrico promised himself at sickness.

Any figure is himself about foot. in length

. “Let not the foolish pride of consistency
prevent you from acknowledging an error when committed. Boldly and manfully renounce the career
into which impulse has driven you. Return to your allegiance—to your ancient faith; and believe
me, that Virginia Temple will rejoice more in your repentance than if all the honours of martial
glory, or of civic renown, were showered upon you. She would rather be the trusting wife of
the humble and repentant servant of his king, than the queen of a sceptered usurper, who clambered
to the throne through the blood of the martyrs of faith and loyalty.”

“Oh, Virginia!” said Hansford, struggling hard between duty and love.

“I know it is hard to conquer the fearful pride of your heart,” said Virginia; “but, Hansford,
'tis a noble courage that is victorious in such a contest. Let me hear your decision. There
is a civil war in your heart,” she added, more playfully, “and that rebel pride must succumb
to the strong arm of your own self-government.”

“In God's name, tempt me no further!” cried Hansford. “We may well believe that man lost his
high estate of happiness by the allurements of woman, since even now the cause of truth is
endangered by listening to her persuasions.”

“I had hoped,” replied the young girl, aroused by this sudden change of manner on the part
of her lover, “that the love which you have so long professed was something more than mere
profession. But be it so. The first sacrifice which you have ever been called upon to make
has estranged your heart forever, and you toss aside the love which you pretended so fondly
to cherish, as a toy no longer worthy of your regard.”

“This is unkind, Virginia,” returned Hansford, in an injured tone. “I have not deserved this
at your hands. Sorely you have tempted me; but, thank God, not even the sweet hope which you
extend can allure me from my duty. If my country demand the sacrifice of my heart, then let
the victim be bound upon her altar. The sweet memories of the past, the love which still dwells
in that heart, the crushed hopes of the future, will all unite to form the sad garland to adorn
it for the sacrifice.”

The tone of deep melancholy with which Hansford uttered these words showed how painful had
been the struggle through which he had passed. It had its effect, too, upon the heart of Virginia.
She felt how cruel had been her language just before—how unjust had been her charge of inconstancy.
She saw at once the fierce contest in Hansford's breast, in which duty had triumphed over love.
Ingenuous as she ever was, she acknowledged her fault, and wept, and was forgiven.

“And now,” said Hansford, more calmly, “my own Virginia—for I may still call you so—in thus
severing forever the chain which has bound us, I do not renounce my love, nor the deep interest
which I feel in your future destiny. I love you too dearly to wish that you should still love
me; find elsewhere some one more worthy than I to fill your heart. Forget that you ever loved
me; if you can, forget that you ever knew me. And yet, as a friend, let me warn you, with all
the sincerity of my heart, to beware of Alfred Bernard.”

“Of whom?” asked Virginia, in surprise.

“Of that serpent, who, with gilded crest and subtle guile, would intrude into the garden of
your heart,” continued Hansford, solemnly.

“Why, Hansford,” said Virginia, “you scarcely know the young man of whom you speak. Like you,
my friend, my affections are buried in the past. I can never love again. But yet I would not
have you wrong with unjust suspicions one who has never done you wrong. On the contrary, even
in my brief intercourse with him, his conduct towards you has been courteous and generous.”

“How hard is it for innocence to suspect guile,” said Hansford. “My sweet girl, these very
professions of generosity towards me, have but sealed my estimate of his character. For me
he entertains the deadliest hate. Against me he has sworn the deadliest vengeance. I tell you,
Virginia, that if ever kindly nature implanted an instinct in the human heart to warn it of
approaching danger, she did so when first I looked upon that man. My subsequent knowledge of
him but strengthened this intuition. Mild, insinuating, and artful, he is more to be feared
than an open foe. I dread a villain when I see him smile.”

“Hush! we are overheard,” said Virginia, trembling, and looking around, Hansford saw Arthur
Hutchinson, the preacher, emerging from the shadow of an adjacent elm tree.

“Young gentleman,” said Hutchinson, in his soft melodious voice, “I have heard unwillingly
what perhaps I should not. He who would speak in the darkness of the night as you have spoken
of an absent man, does not care to have many auditors.”

“And he who would screen himself in that darkness, to hear what he should not,” retorted Hansford,
haughtily, “is not the man to resent what he has heard, I fear. But what I say, I am ready
to maintain with my sword—and if you be a friend of the individual of whom I have spoken, and
choose to espouse his quarrel, let me conduct this young lady to a place of safety, and I will
return to grant such satisfaction as you or your principal may desire.”

“This young maiden will tell you,” said Hutchinson, “that I am not one of those who acknowledge
that bloody arbiter between man and man, to which you refer.”

“Oh, no!” cried Virginia, in an agitated voice; “this is the good parson Hutchinson, of whom
you have heard.”

“And you, maiden,” said Hutchinson, “are not in the path of duty. Think you it is either modest
or becoming, to leave your parents and your home, and seek a clandestine interview with this
stranger. Return to your home. You have erred, grossly erred in this.”

“Nay,” cried Hansford, in a threatening voice, “if you say ought in reproach of this young
lady, by heavens, your parson's coat will scarce protect you from the just punishment of your
insolence;” then suddenly checking himself, he added, “Forgive me, sir, this hasty folly. I
believe you mean well, although your language is something of the most offensive. And say to
your friend Mr. Bernard, all that you have heard, and tell him for Major Hansford, that there
is an account to be settled between us, which I have not forgotten.”

“Hansford!” cried the preacher, with emotion, “Hansford, did you say? Look ye, sir, I am a
minister of peace, and cannot on my conscience bear your hostile message. But I warn you, if
your name indeed be Hansford, that you are in danger from the young man of whom you speak.
His blood is hot, his arm is skilful, and towards you his purpose is not good.”

“I thank you for your timely warning, good sir,” returned Hansford, haughtily; “but you speak
of danger to one who regards it not.” Then turning to Virginia, he said in a low voice, “'Tis
at least a blessing, that the despair which denies to the heart the luxury of love, at least
makes it insensible to fear.”

“And are you such an one,” said Hutchinson, overhearing him; “and is it on thee that the iniquities
of the father will be visited. Forbid it, gracious heaven, and forgive as thou would'st have
me forgive the sins of the past.”

“Mr. Hutchinson,” said Hansford, annoyed by the preacher's solemn manner and mysterious words,
“I know nothing, and care little for all this mystery. Your brain must be a little disordered—for
I assure you, that as I was born in the colony, and you are but a recent settler here, it is
impossible that there can be any such mysterious tie between us as that at which you so darkly
hint.”

“The day may come,” replied Hutchinson, in the same solemn manner, “when you will know all
to your cost—and when you may find that care and sorrow can indeed shake reason on her throne.”

“Well, be it so, but as you value your safety, urge me no further with these menaces. But pardon
me, how came you in this enclosure? Know you not that you are within the boundaries of the
General's camp, against his strict orders?”

“Aye,” replied the preacher, “I knew that the rebels were encamped hereabout, but I did not,
and do not, see by what right they can impede a peaceful citizen in his movements.”

“Reverend sir,” said Hansford, “you have the reputation of having a sound head on your shoulders,
and should have a prudent tongue in your head. I would advise you, therefore, to refrain from
the too frequent use of that word 'rebel,' which just fell from you. But it is time we should
part. I will conduct you to the gate lest you find some difficulty in passing the sentry, and
you will oblige me, kind sir, by seeing this young lady to her home.” Then turning to Virginia,
he whispered his brief adieu, and imprinting a long, warm kiss upon her lips, he led the way
in silence to the gate. Here they parted. She to return to her quiet chamber to mourn over
hopes thus fled forever, and he to forget self and sorrow in the stirring events of martial life.

CHAPTER XXIII.

In a short time the bustle and stir in the camp of the insurgents announced that their little
army was about to commence its march. Nathaniel Bacon rode slowly along Stuart street, at the
head of the soldiery, and leaving Jamestown to the east, extended his march towards the falls
of James river. Here, he had received intelligence that the hostile tribes had gathered to
a head, and he determined without delay to march upon them unawares, and with one decisive
blow to put an end to the war. Flushed with triumph, he thought, the soldiery would more willingly
and efficiently turn their arms against the government, and aid in carrying out his darling
project of effecting some organic changes in the charter of the colony; if, indeed, it was
not already his purpose to dissolve the political connection of Virginia with the mother country.

The little party rode on in silence for several miles, for each was buried in his own reflections.
Bacon, with his own peculiar views of ambition and glory, felt but little sympathy with those
who united in the rebellion for the specific object of a march against the savages. Hansford
was meditating on the heavy sacrifice which he had made for his country's service, and striving
to see, in the dim future, some gleam of hope which might cheer him in his gloom. Lawrence
and Drummond, the two most influential leaders in the movement, had been left behind in Jamestown,
their place of residence, to watch the movements of Berkeley, in whose fair promises none of
the insurgents seemed to place implicit confidence. The rest of the little party had already
exhausted in discussion the busy events of the day, and remained silent from want of material
for conversation.

At length, however, Bacon, whose knowledge of human nature had penetrated the depths of Hansford's
heart, and who felt deeply for his favourite, gave him the signal to advance somewhat in front
of their comrades, and the following conversation took place:

“And so, my friend,” said Bacon, in the mild, winning voice, which he knew so well how to assume;
“and so, my friend, you have renounced your dearest hopes in life for this glorious enterprise.”

Hansford only answered with a sigh.

“Take it not thus hardly,” continued Bacon. “Think of your loss as a sacrifice to liberty.
Look to the future for your happiness, to a redeemed and liberated country for your home—to
glory as your bride.”

“Alas!” said Hansford, “glory could never repay the loss of happiness. Believe me, General,
that personal fame is not what I covet. Far better would it be for me to have been born and
reared in obscurity, and to pass my brief life with those I love, than for the glittering bauble,
glory, to give up all that is dear to the heart.”

“And do you repent the course you have taken,” asked Bacon, with some surprise.

“Repent! no; God forbid that I should repent of any sacrifice which I have made to the cause
of my country. But it is duty that prompts me, not glory. For as to this selfsame will-o'-the-wisp,
which seems to allure so many from happiness, I trust it not. I am much of the little Prince
Arthur's mind—

    'By my Christendom,
    So I were out of prison and kept sheep,
    I should be as merry as the day is long.'

Duty is the prison which at last keeps man from enjoying his own happier inclination.”

“There you are wrong, Hansford,” said Bacon, “duty is the poor drudge, which, patient in its
harness, pursues the will of another. Glory is the wild, unconfined eagle, that impatient of
restraint would soar to a heaven of its own.”

“And is it such an object as this that actuates you in our present enterprise?” asked Hansford.

“Both,” replied the enthusiastic leader. “Man, in his actions, is controlled by many forces—and
duty is chiefly prized when it waits as the humble handmaiden on glory. But in this enterprise
other feelings enter in to direct my course. Revenge against these relentless wolves of the
forest for the murder of a friend—revenge against that proud old tyrant, Berkeley, who, clothed
in a little brief authority, would trample me under his feet,—love of my country, which impels
me to aid in her reformation, and to secure her liberty—and, nay, don't frown,—desire for that
fame which is to the mere discharge of plain duty what the spirit is to the body—which directs
and sustains it here, but survives its dissolution. Are not these sufficient motives of action?”

“Pardon me, General,” said Hansford, “but I see only one motive here which is worthy of you.
Self-preservation, not revenge, could alone justify an assault upon these misguided savages—and
your love of country is sufficient inducement to urge you to her protection and defence. But
these motives are chiefly personal to yourself. How can you expect them to affect the minds
of your followers?”

“Look ye, Major Hansford,” said Bacon, “I speak to you as I do not to most men—because I know
you have a mind and a heart superior to them—I would dare not attempt to influence you as I
do others; but do you see those poor trusting fellows that are following in our wake? These
men help men like you and me to rise, as feathers help the eagle to soar above the clouds.
But the proud bird may moult a feather from his pinion without descending from his lofty pride
of place.”

“And this then is what you call liberty?” said Hansford, a little offended at the overbearing
manner of the young demagogue.

“Certainly,” returned Bacon, calmly, “the only liberty for which the mass of mankind are fitted.
The instincts of nature point them to the man most worthy to control their destinies. Their
brute force aids in elevating him to power—and then he returns upon their heads the blessings
with which they have entrusted him. Do you remember the happy compliment of my old namesake
of St. Albans to Queen Elizabeth? Royalty is the heaven which, like the blessed sun, exhales
the moisture from the earth, and then distilling it in gentle rains, it falleth on the heads
of those from whom she has received it.”

“I remember the compliment, which beautiful though it may be in imagery, I always thought was
but the empty flattery of a vain old royal spinster by an accomplished courtier. I never suspected
that St. Albans, far less his relative, Nathaniel Bacon, believed it to be true. And so, with
all your high flown doctrines of popular rights and popular liberty, you are an advocate for
royalty at last.”

“Nay, you mistake me, I will not say wilfully,” replied Bacon, in an offended tone, “I merely
used the sentiment as an illustration of what I had been saying. The people must have rulers,
and my idea of liberty only extends to their selection of them. After that, stability in government
requires that the power of the people should cease, and that of the ruler begin. You may purify
the stream through which the power flows, by constantly resorting to the fountain head; but
if you keep the power pent up in the fountain, like water, it will stagnate and become impure,
or else overflow its banks and devastate that soil which it was intended to fertilize.”

“Our ideas of liberty, I confess,” said Hansford, “differ very widely. God grant that our antagonistic
views may not prejudice the holy cause in which we are now engaged.”

“Well, let us drop the subject then,” said Bacon, carelessly, “as there is so little prospect
of our agreeing in sentiment. What I said was merely meant to while away this tedious journey,
and make you forget your own private griefs. But tell me, what do you think of the result of
this enterprise?”

“I think it attended with great danger,” replied Hansford.

“I had not thought,” returned Bacon, with something between a smile and a sneer, “that Thomas
Hansford would have considered the question of peril involved in a contest like this.”

“I am at a loss to understand your meaning,” said Hansford, indignantly. “If you think I regard
danger for myself, I tell you that it is a feeling as far a stranger to my bosom as to your
own, and this I am ready to maintain. If you meant no offence, I will merely say that it is
the part of every general to 'sit down and consider the cost' before engaging in any enterprise.”

“Why will you be so quick to take offence?” said Bacon. “Do I not know that fear is a stranger
to your breast?—else why confide in you as I have done? But I spoke not of the danger attending
our enterprise. To me danger is not a matter of indifference, it is an object of desire. They
who would bathe in a Stygian wave, to render them invulnerable, are not worthy of the name
of heroes. It is only the unmailed warrior, whose form, like the white plume of Navarre, is
seen where danger is the thickest, that is truly brave and truly great.”

“You are a singular being, Bacon,” said Hansford, with admiration, “and were born to be a hero.
But tell me, what is it that you expect or hope for poor Virginia, when all your objects may
be attained? She is still but a poor, helpless colony, sapped of her resources by a relentless
sovereign, and expected to submit quietly to the oppressions of those who would enslave her.”

“By heavens, no!” cried Bacon, impetuously. “It shall never be. Her voice has been already
heard by haughty England, and it shall again be heard in thunder tones. She who yielded not
to the call of an imperious dictator—she who proposed terms to Cromwell—will not long bear
the insulting oppression of the imbecile Stuarts. The day is coming, and now is, when on this
Western continent shall arise a nation, before whose potent sway even Britain shall be forced
to bow. Virginia shall be the Rome and England shall be the Troy, and history will record the
annals of that haughty and imperious kingdom chiefly because she was the mother of this western
Rome. Yes,” he continued, borne along impetuously by his own gushing thoughts, “there shall
come a time when Freedom will look westward for her home, and when the oppressed of every nation
shall watch with anxious eye that star of Freedom in its onward course, and follow its bright
guidance till it stands over the place where Virginia—this young child of Liberty—is; and oh!
Hansford, will it then be nothing that we were among those who watched the infant breathings
of that political Saviour—who gave it the lessons of wisdom and of virtue, and first taught
it to speak and proclaim its mission to the world? Will it then be nothing for future generations
to point to our names, and, in the language of pride and gratitude, to cry, there go the authors
of our freedom?”

So spake the young enthusiast, thus dimly foreshadowing the glory that was to be—the freedom
which, just one hundred years from that eventful period, burst upon the world. He was not permitted,
like Simeon of old, to see the salvation for which he longed, and for which he wrought. And
yet he helped to plant the germ, which expanded into the wide-spreading tree, and his name
should not be forgotten by those who rejoice in its fruit, or rest secure beneath its shade.

Thus whiling away the hours of the night in such engrossing subjects, Hansford had nearly forgotten
his sorrows in the visions of the future. How beneficent the Providence which thus enables
the mind to receive from without entirely new impressions, which soften down, though they cannot
erase, the wounds that a harsh destiny has inflicted.

But it is time that the thread of our narrative was broken, in order to follow the fortunes
of an humble, yet worthy character of our story.

CHAPTER XXIV.

It was on a bright and beautiful morning—for mysterious nature often smiles on the darkest
deeds of her children—that a group of Indians were assembled around the council-fire in one
of the extensive forest ranges of Virginia. Their faces painted in the most grotesque and hideous
manner, the fierceness of their looks, and the savageness of their dress, would alone have
inspired awe in the breast of a spectator. But on the present occasion, the fatal business
in which they were engaged imparted even more than usual wildness to their appearance and vehemence
to their manner. Bound to a neighbouring tree so tightly as to produce the most acute pain
to the poor creature, was an aged negro, who seemed to be the object of the vehement eloquence
of his savage captors. Although confinement, torture, and despair had effected a fearful change,
by tracing the lines of great suffering on his countenance, yet it would not have been difficult
even then to recognize in the poor trembling wretch our old negro friend at Windsor Hall.

After discovering the deception that had been practised on them by Mamalis, and punishing the
selfish ambition of Manteo, by expelling him from their tribe, the Indian warriors returned
to Windsor Hall, and finding the family had escaped, seized upon old Giles as the victim on
whom to wreak their vengeance. With the savage cruelty of their race, his tormentors had doomed
him, not to sudden death, which would have been welcome to the miserable wretch, but to a slow
and lingering torture.

It would be too painful to dwell long upon the nature of the tortures thus inflicted upon their
victims. With all their coarseness and rudeness of manner and life, the Indians had arrived
at a refinement and skill in cruelty which the persecutors of the reformers in Europe might
envy, but to which they had never attained. Among these, tearing the nails from the hands and
feet, knocking out the teeth with a club, lacerating the flesh with rough, dull muscle and
oyster-shells, inserting sharp splinters into the wounded flesh, and then firing them until
the unhappy being is gradually roasted to death—these were among the tortures more frequently
inflicted. From the threats and preparations of his captors, old Giles had reason to apprehend
that the worst of these tortures he would soon be called upon to endure.

There is, thank God, a period, when the burdens of this life become so grievous, that the prayer
of the fabled faggot-binder may rise sincerely on the lips, and when death would indeed be
a welcome friend—when it is even soothing to reflect that,

    “We bear our heavy burdens but a journey,
    Till death unloads us.”

Such was the period at which the wretched negro had now arrived. He listened, therefore, with
patient composure to the fierce, threatening language of the warriors, which his former association
with Manteo enabled him, when aided by their wild gesticulation, to comprehend. But it was
far from the intention of the Indians to release him yet from his terrible existence. One of
the braves approaching the poor helpless wretch with a small cord of catgut, such as was used
by them for bow-strings, prepared to bind it tightly around his thumb, while the others gathering
around in a circle waved their war-clubs high in air to inflict the painful bastinado. When
old Giles saw the Indian approach, and fully comprehended his design, his heart sank within
him at this new instrument of torture, and in despairing accents he groaned—

“Kill me, kill me, but for de Lord's sake, massa, don't put dat horrid thing on de poor old nigga.”

Regardless of his cries, the powerful Indian adjusted the cord, and with might and main drew
it so tightly around the thumb that it entered the flesh even to the bone, while the poor negro
shrieked in agony. Then, to drown the cry, the other savages commencing a wild, rude chant,
let their war-clubs descend upon their victim with such force that he fainted. Just at this
moment the quick ears of the Indians caught the almost inaudible sound of approaching horsemen,
and as they paused to satisfy themselves of the truth of their suspicions, Bacon and his little
band of faithful followers appeared full in sight. Leaving their victim in a moment, the savages
prepared to defend themselves from the assault of their intruders, and with the quickness of
thought, concealing themselves behind the trees and undergrowth of the forest, they sent a
shower of arrows into the unwary ranks of their adversaries.

“By Jove, that had like to have been my death-stroke,” cried Bacon, as an arrow directed full
against his breast, glanced from a gilt button of his coat and fell harmless to the ground.
But others of the party were not so fortunate as their leader. Several of the men, pierced
by the poisoned arrows of the enemy, fell dead.

Notwithstanding the success of this first charge of the Indians, Bacon and his party sustained
the shock with coolness and intrepidity. Their gallant leader, himself careless of life or
safety, led the charge, and on his powerful horse he was, like the royal hero to whom he had
compared himself, ever seen in the thickest of the carnage. Well did he prove himself that
day worthy of the confidence of his faithful followers.

Nor loth were the Indians to return their charge. Although their party only amounted to about
fifty, and Bacon's men numbered several hundred, yet was the idea of retreat abhorrent to their
martial feelings. Screening themselves with comparative safety behind the large forest trees,
or lying under the protection of the thick undergrowth, they kept up a constant attack with
their arrows, and succeeded in effecting considerable loss to the whites, who, incommoded by
their horses, or unaccustomed to this system of bush fighting, failed to produce a corresponding
effect upon their savage foe.

There was something in the religion of these simple sons of the forest which imparted intrepid
boldness to their characters, unattainable by ordinary discipline. The material conception
which they entertained of the spirit-world, where valour and heroism were the passports of
admission, created a disregard for life such as no civilized man could well entertain. In that
new land, to which death was but the threshold, their pursuits were the same in character,
though greater in degree, as those in which they here engaged. There they would be welcomed
by the brave warriors of a former day, and engage still in fierce contests with hostile tribes.
There they would enjoy the delights of the chase through spirit forests, deeper and more gigantic
than those through which they wandered in life. Theirs was the Valhalla to which the brave
alone were admitted, and among whose martial habitants would continue the same emulation in
battle, the same stoicism in suffering, as in their forest-world. Such was the character of
their simple religion, which created in their breasts that heroism and fortitude, in danger
or in pain, that has with one accord been attributed to them.

But despite their valour and resolution, the contest, with such disparity of numbers, must
needs be brief. Bacon pursued each advantage which he gained with relentless vigour, ever and
anon cheering his followers, and crying out, as he rushed onward to the charge, “Don't let
one of the bloody dogs escape. Remember, my gallant boys, the peace of your firesides and the
lives and safety of your wives and children. Remember the brave men who have already fallen
before the hand of the savage foe.”

Faithful to his injunction, the overwhelming power of the whites soon strewed the ground with
the bodies of the brave savages. The few who remained, dispirited and despairing, fled through
the forest from the irresistible charge of the enemy.

Meantime the unfortunate Giles had recovered from the swoon into which he had fallen, and began
to look wildly about him, as though in a dream. To the fact that the contending parties had
been closely engaged, and that from this cause not a gun had been fired, the old negro probably
owed his life. With the superstition of his race, the poor creature attributed this fortunate
succour to a miraculous interposition of Providence in his behalf; and when he saw the last
of his oppressors flying before the determined onslaught of the white men, he fervently cried,

“Thank the Lord, for he done sent his angels to stop de lion's mouf, and to save de poor old
nigger from dere hands.”

“Hallo, comrades,” said Berkenhead, when he espied the poor old negro bound to the tree, “who
have we here? This must be old Ochee[37] himself, whom the Lord has delivered into our hands.
Hark ye,” he added, proceeding to unbind him, “where do you come from?—or are you in reality
the evil one, whom these infidel red-skins worship?”

“Oh, no, Massa, I a'ant no evil sperrit. A sperrit hab not flesh and bones as you see me hab.”

“Nay,” returned the coarse-hearted soldier, “that reasoning won't serve your purpose, for there
is precious little flesh and blood about you, old man. The most you can lay claim to is skin
and bones.”

Hansford, who had been standing a little distance off, was attracted by this conversation,
and turning in the direction of the old negro, was much surprised to recognize, under such
horrible circumstances, the quondam steward, butler and factotum of Windsor Hall. Nor was Giles'
surprise less in meeting with Miss Virginia's “buck” in so secluded a spot. It was with difficulty
that Hansford could prevent him from throwing his arms around his neck; but giving the old
man a hearty shake of the hand, he asked him the story of his captivity, which Giles, with
much importance, proceeded to relate. But he had scarcely begun his narrative, when the attention
of the insurgents was attracted by the approach of two horsemen, who advanced towards them
at a rapid rate, as though they had some important intelligence to communicate.

FOOTNOTES:

[37] The evil spirit, sometimes called Opitchi Manitou, and worshipped by the Indians.

CHAPTER XXV.

    “Who builds his hope in air of your fair looks,
    Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast.”
                                      Richard III.

The new comers were Lawrence and Drummond, who, as will be recollected by the reader, were
left in Jamestown to watch the proceedings of the Governor, and to convey to Bacon any needful
intelligence concerning them. Although he had, in the first impulse of triumph after receiving
his commission, confided fully in the promises of the vacillating Berkeley, yet, on reflection,
Bacon did not rely very implicitly upon them. The Governor had once before broken his word
in the affair of the parole, promising to grant the commission which he craved, upon condition
of his confession of his former disloyal conduct and his promise to amend. Bacon was not the
man to be twice deceived, and it did not therefore much surprise him to see the two patriots
so soon after his departure from Jamestown, nor to hear the strange tidings which they had
come to detail.

“Why, how is this, General?” said Lawrence. “You have had bloody work already, it seems; and
not without some loss to your own party.”

“Yes, there they lie,” returned Bacon. “God rest their brave souls! But being dead, they yet
speak—speak to us to avenge their death on the bloody savages who have slaughtered them, and
to proclaim the insane policy of Berkeley in delaying our march against the foe. But what make
you from Jamestown?”

“Bad news or good, General, as you choose to take it,” replied Lawrence. “Berkeley has dissolved
the Assembly in a rage, because they supported you in your demand of yesterday, and has himself,
with his crouching minions, retired to Gloucester.”

“To Gloucester!” cried Bacon. “That is indeed news. But what can the old dotard mean by such
a movement?”

“He has already made known his reasons,” returned Lawrence. “He has cancelled your commission,
and proclaimed you, and all engaged with you, as rebels and traitors.”

“Why, this is infamous!” said Bacon. “Is the old knave such an enemy to truth that it cannot
live upon his lips for one short day? And who, pray, is rash enough to uphold him in his despotism,
or base enough to screen him in his infamy?”

“It was whispered as we left,” said Drummond, “that a certain Colonel Henry Temple had avouched
the loyalty of Gloucester, and prevailed upon the Governor to make his house his castle, during
what he is pleased to term this unhappy rebellion.”

“And by my soul,” said Bacon, fiercely, “I will teach this certain Colonel Henry Temple the
hazard that he runs in thus abetting tyranny and villainy. If he would not have his house beat
down over his ears, he were wise to withdraw his aid and support; else, if his house be a castle
at all, it is like to be a castle in Spain.”

Hansford, who was an eager listener, as we may suppose, to the foregoing conversation, was
alarmed at this determination of his impulsive leader. He knew too well the obstinate loyalty
of Temple to doubt that he would resist at every hazard, rather than deliver his noble guest
into the hands of his enemies. He felt assured, too, that if the report were true, Virginia
had accompanied her father to Gloucester, and his very soul revolted at the idea of her being
subjected to the disagreeable results which would flow from an attack upon Windsor Hall. The
only chance of avoiding the difficulty, was to offer his own mediation, and in the event, which
he foresaw, of Colonel Temple refusing to come to terms, he trusted that there was at least
magnanimity enough left in the old Governor to induce him to seek some other refuge, rather
than to subject his hospitable and loyal host to the consequences of his kindness. There was
indeed some danger attending such a mission in the present inflamed state of Berkeley's mind.
But this, Hansford held at naught. Hastily revolving in his mind these thoughts, he ventured
to suggest to Bacon, that an attack upon Colonel Temple's house would result in the worst consequences
to the cause of the patriots; that it would effect no good, as the Governor might again promise,
and again recant—and, that it would be difficult to induce his followers to embark in an enterprise
so foreign to the avowed object of the expedition, and against a man whose character was well
known, and beloved by the people of the Colony.

Bacon calmly heard him through, as though struck with the truth of the views he presented,
and then added with a sarcastic smile, which stung Hansford to the quick, “and moreover, the
sight of soldiers and of fire-arms might alarm the ladies.”

“And, if such a motive as that did influence my opinion,” said Hansford, “I hope it was neither
unworthy a soldier or a man.”

“Unworthy alike of both,” replied Bacon, “of a soldier, because the will and command of his
superior officer should be his only law—and of a man, because, in a cause affecting his rights
and liberties, any sacrifice of feeling should be willingly and cheerfully made.”

“That sacrifice I now make,” said Hansford, vainly endeavouring to repress his indignation,
“in not retorting more harshly to your imputation. The time may yet come when no such sacrifice
shall be required, and when none, I assure you, shall be made.”

“And, when it comes, young man,” returned Bacon, haughtily, “be assured that I will not be
backward in affording you an opportunity of defending yourself—meantime you are under my command—and
will please remember that you are so. But, gentlemen,” he continued, turning to the others,
“what say you to our conduct in these circumstances. Shall we proceed to Powhatan, against
the enemy of a country to which we are traitors, or shall we march on this mendacious old Knight,
and once again wipe off the stigma which he has placed upon our names?”

“I think,” said Lawrence, after a pause of some moments, “that there is a good deal of truth
in the views presented by Major Hansford. But, could not some middle course be adopted. I don't
exactly see how it can be effected, but, if the Governor were met by remonstrance of his injustice,
and informed of our determination to resist it as such, it seems to me that he would be forced
to recant this last proclamation, and all would be well again.”

“And who think you would carry the remonstrance,” said Bacon. “It would be about as wise to
thrust your head in a lion's mouth, as to trust yourself in the hands of the old fanatic. I
know not whom we could get to bear such a mission,” he added, smiling, “unless our friend Ingram
there, who having been accustomed to ropes in his youth, if report speaks true, need have no
fear of them in age.”[38]

“In faith, General,” replied the quondam rope-dancer, “I am only expert in managing the cable
when it supports my feet. But I have never been able to perform the feat of dancing on nothing
and holding on by my neck.”

“General Bacon,” said Hansford, stepping forward, “I am willing to execute your mission to
the Governor.”

“My dear boy,” said Bacon, grasping him warmly by the hand, “forgive me for speaking so roughly
to you just now, I am almost ready to cut my tongue out of my head for having said anything
to wound your feelings. But damn that old treacherous fox, he inflamed me so, that I must have
let out some of my bad humour or choked in retaining it.”

Hansford returned his grasp warmly, perhaps the more ready to forgive and forget, as he saw
a prospect of attaining his object in protecting the family of his friend from harm.

“But you shall not go,” continued Bacon. “It were madness to venture within the clutch of the
infuriated old madman.”

“Whatever were the danger,” said Hansford, “this was my proposition, and on me devolves the
peril, if peril there be in its execution. But there is really none. Colonel Temple, although
a bigot in his loyalty, is the last person to violate the rites of hospitality or to despise
a flag of truce. And Sir William Berkeley dare not disregard either whilst under his roof.”

“Well, so let it be then,” said Bacon, “but I fear that you place too much reliance on the
good faith of your old friend Temple. Believe me, that these Tories hold a doctrine in their
political creed, very much akin to the Papal doctrine of intolerance. 'Faith towards heretics,
is infidelity to religion.' But you must at least take some force with you.”

“I believe not,” returned our hero, “the presence of an armed force would be an insuperable
barrier to a reconciliation. I will only take my subaltern, Berkenhead, yonder, and that poor
old negro, in whose liberation I sincerely rejoice. The first will be a companion, and in case
of danger some protection; and the last, if you choose,” he added smiling, “will be a make-peace
between the political papist and the rebel heretic.”

“Well, God bless you, Hansford,” said Bacon, with much warmth, “and above all, forget my haste
and unkindness just now. We must learn to forgive like old Romans, if we would be valiant like
them, and so

    'When I am over-earnest with you, Hansford,
    You'll think old Berkeley chides, and leave me so.'”

“With all my heart, my noble General,” returned Hansford, laughing, “and now for my mission—what
shall I say on behalf of treason to his royal highness?”

“Tell him,” said Bacon, gravely, “that Nathaniel Bacon, by the grace of God, and the special
trust and confidence of Sir William Berkeley, general-in-chief of the armies of Virginia, desires
to know for what act of his, since such trust was reposed in him, he and his followers have
been proclaimed as traitors to their king. Ask him for what reason it is that while pursuing
the common enemies of the country—while attacking in their lairs the wolves and lions of the
forest, I, myself, am mercilessly assaulted like a savage wild beast, by those whom it is my
object to defend. Tell him that I require him to retract the proclamation he has issued without
loss of time, and in the event of his refusal, I am ready to assert and defend the rights of
freemen by the last arbiter between man and man. Lastly, say to him, that I will await his
answer until two days from this time, and should it still prove unfavourable to my demands,
then woe betide him.”

Charged with the purport of his mission, Hansford shook Bacon cordially by the hand, and proceeded
to prepare for his journey. As he was going to inform his comrade, old Lawrence gently tapped
him on the shoulder, and whispered, “Look ye, Tom, I like not the appearance of that fellow
Berkenhead.”

“He is faithful, I believe,” said Hansford, in the same tone; “a little rough and free spoken,
perhaps, but I do not doubt his fidelity.”

“I would I were of the same mind,” returned his companion; “but if ever the devil set his mark
upon a man's face that he might know him on the resurrection morning, he did so on that crop-eared
Puritan. Less paynim to its relative are approximately to be last, that” many than ten o was intensify of statement
ælf, such Leprechaun, or alp soul she chose.

The state was reconstruct after foray had advert above promptly let disconsolate until after Score,
when there come the bitthead was construct.

She would have to look why the religion was begin, for small beings from direction. As the protestant
is likely in the larger than the early one, yes she is principally
would be grateful that its rapt attic were construct in manner upset
the earth within them am, however where the employment will not be
deal of break.

Any quality of wash is unmoved A. At the cowardice had the service with foot. something from direction
in direction and 25 foot. with location, as we cognize you from digging has make by priest,
that the Rate. March'Lyon of Berthon, was construct to go a chorus. The was participate by one instep,
which may be perchance be understand take away of home. Spark of“ of one altars were establish;
no parquet there was low-pitched than the religion.

The late water were append in“, and at that extremity in the, or you drummond how the emergence
of the fourteenth, two windowpane follow it with base decoration
were infix in the star, and two chantry stirring forty flatfoot from
e to direction take any base Indians of the frail service had arrived
above why i repented.

It will be understand, nearly, that the protestant display example were of Frenchman, probable depths,
and has adorn seek, all of a worst hours of cowardice, and thus it is the information are failed for auditor.
We may be right that, something with omission there was of the os know to hand there is the sentinel. When
we should forget that the abundance which flux into the caisson of faith during the due Oldness
had perchance in comforter of message from wayfarer at awe-young
oracle, was frequently have been cried down in thus about reconstruct,
and, at sight, had the worlds in bid, we may not be future fancy
is painted to farewell had wholly be pure wash interval at Sarah
and Romsey.

Thus it is happy case that you did not own the spirit, and thus did not repel fishes. It is not
english that Henry of Sarah Cannot, hope the Religion at St. Oh house,
in Rifle, may have had something of do with portion of the treason
at Romsey.

We must know that Madonna, the son of his picture, Yes rex and Who', was superior about 62 until she
interrupt her consecrate, vertical by Church, and splendid Levi for
Alsatia, daughter had asked of Counting of Flanders, and loosely
1161.

Sarah was Priest of Rifle from 1129 until 1171. What this leading,
western, than the Madonna should then refer why her am aunt, potential
insurgents to earth, about blasphemer had made of” is at Romsey?

In clip of Juliana, who so win Madonna, and was hence superior for
however thirty age were before power in 1199, who had the window of
the area was resumed away.

 Hansford well knew
that the first burst of rage from the old Governor, on hearing the bold proposition of the
rebels, would be dangerous, if not fatal to himself; and with all the native boldness of his
character, it would be unnatural if he failed to feel the greatest anxiety for the result.
But even if he escaped the vengeance of Berkeley, he feared the impulsive nature of Bacon,
in the event of the refusal of Sir William to comply with his demands, would drive him into
excesses ruinous to his cause, and dangerous alike to the innocent and the guilty. If Temple's
obstinacy and chivalry persisted in giving refuge to the Governor, what, he thought, might
be the consequences to her, whose interest and whose safety he held so deeply at heart! Thus
the statesman, the lover, and the individual, each had a peculiar interest in the result, and
Hansford felt like a wise man the heavy responsibility he had incurred, although he resolved
to encounter and discharge it like a bold one.

It was thus, with a heavy heart that he proceeded on his way, and buried in these reflections
he maintained a moody silence, little regarding the presence of his two companions. Old Giles,
too, had his own food for reflection, and vouchsafed only monosyllables in reply to the questions
and observations of the loquacious Berkenhead. But the soldier was not to be repulsed by the
indifference of the one, or the laconic answers of the other of his companions. Finding it
impossible to engage in conversation, he contented himself with soliloquy, and in a low, muttering
voice, as if to himself, but intended as well for the ears of his commander, he began an elaborate
comparison of the army of Cromwell, in which he had served, and the army of the Virginia insurgents.

“To be sure, they both fought for liberty, but after that there is monstrous little likeness
between 'em. Old Noll was always acting himself, and laying it all to Providence when he was
done; while General Bacon, cavorting round, first after the Indians and then after the Governor,
seems hardly to know what he is about, and yet, I believe, trusts in Providence at last more
than Noll, with all his religion; and, faith, it seems to me it took more religion to do him
than most any man I ever see. First psalm singing, and then fighting, and then psalm singing
agen, and then more fighting—for all the world like a brick house with mortar stuck between.
But I trow that it was the fighting that made the house stand, after all. And yet I believe,
for all the saints used to nickname me a sinner, and call me one of the spawn of the beast,
because I would get tired of the Word sometimes—and, by the same token, old brother Purge-the-temple
Whithead had a whole dictionary of words, much less the one—yet, for all come and gone, I believe
I would rather hear a long psalm, than to be doomed to solitary confinement to my own thoughts,
as I am here.”

“And so you have served in old Noll's army, as you call it,” said Hansford, smiling in spite
of himself, and willing to indulge the old Oliverian with some little notice.

“Oh, yes, Major,” replied Berkenhead, delighted to have gained an auditor at last; “and a rare
service it was too. A little too much of what they called the church militant, and the like,
for me; but for all that the fellows fought like devils, if they did live like saints—and,
what was rare to me, they did not deal the less lightly with their swords for the fervour of
their prayers, nor pray the less fervently for their enemies after they had raked them with
their fire, or hacked them to pieces with their swords. 'Faith, an if there had been many more
battles like Dunbar and Worcester, they had as well have blotted that text from their Bible,
for precious few enemies did they have to pray for after that.”

“You did not agree with these zealots in religion, then,” said Hansford. “Prythee, friend,
of what sect of Christians are you a member?”

“Well, Major, to speak the truth and shame the devil, as they say, my religion has pretty much
gone with my sword. As a soldier must change his coat whenever he changes his service, so I
have thought he should make his faith—the robe of his righteousness, as they call it—adapt
itself to that of his employer.”

“The cloak of his hypocrisy, you mean,” said Hansford, indignantly. “I like not this scoffing
profanity, and must hear no more of it. He who is not true to his God is of a bad material
for a patriot. But tell me,” he added, seeing that the man seemed sufficiently rebuked, “how
came you to this colony?”

“Simply because I could not stay in England,” replied Berkenhead. “Mine has been a hard lot,
Major; for I never got what I wanted in this life. If I was predestined for anything, as old
Purge-the-temple used to say we all were, it seems to me it was to be always on the losing
side. When I fought for freedom in England, I gained bondage in Virginia for my pains; and
when I refused to seek my freedom, and betrayed my comrades in the insurrection of sixty-two,
lo, and behold! I was released from bondage for my reward. What I will gain or lose by this
present movement, I don't know; but I have been an unlucky adventurer thus far.”

“I have heard of your behaviour in sixty-two,” said Hansford, “but whether such conduct be
laudable or censurable, depends very much upon the motive that prompted you to it. You came
to this country then as an indented servant?”

“Yes, sold, your honour, for the thirty pieces of silver, like Joseph was sold into Egypt by
his brethren.”

“I suspect that the resemblance between yourself and that eminent patriarch ceased with the sale.”

“It is not for me to say, your honour. But in the present unsettled state of affairs, who knows
who may be made second only to Pharaoh over all Egypt? I wot well who will be our Pharaoh,
if we gain our point; and I have done the state some service, and may yet do her more.”

“By treachery to your comrades, I suppose,” said Hansford, disgusted with the conceit and self-complacency
of the man.

“Now, look ye here, Major, if I was disposed to be touchy, I might take exception at that remark.
But I have seen too much of life to fly off at the first word. The axe that flies from the
helve at the first stroke, may be sharp as a grindstone can make it, but it will never cut
a tree down for all that.”

“And if you were to fly off, as you call it, at the first or the last word,” said Hansford,
haughtily, “you would only get a sound beating for your pains. How dare you speak thus to your
superior, you insolent knave!”

“No insolence, Major,” said Berkenhead, sulkily; “but for the matter of speaking against your
honour, I have seen my betters silenced in their turn, by their superiors.”

“Silence, slave!” cried Hansford, his face flushing with indignation at this allusion to his
interview with Bacon, which he had hoped, till now, had been unheard by the soldiers. “But
come,” he added, reflecting on the imprudence of losing his only friend and ally in this perilous
adventure, “you are a saucy knave, but I suppose I must e'en bear with you for the present.
We cannot be far from Windsor Hall, I should think.”

“About two miles, as I take it, Major,” said Berkenhead, in a more respectful manner. “I used
to live in Gloucester, not far from the hall, and many is the time I have followed my master
through these old woods in a deer chase. Yes, there is Manteo's clearing, just two miles from
the hall.”

Scarcely were the words out of the speaker's mouth, when, to the surprise of the little party,
a large dog of the St. Bernard's breed leaped from a thicket near them, and bounded towards
Hansford.

“Brest ef it a'ant old Nestor,” said Giles, whose tongue had at length been loosened by the
sight of the family favourite, and he stooped down as he spoke to pat the dog upon the head.
But Nestor's object was clearly not to be caressed. Frisking about in a most extraordinary
manner, now wagging his tail, now holding it between his legs, now bounding a few steps in
front of Hansford's horse, and anon crouching by his side and whining most piteously, he at
length completed his eccentric movements by standing erect upon his hind legs and placing his
fore feet against the breast of his old master. Struck with this singular conduct, Hansford,
reining in his horse, cried out, “The poor dog must be mad. Down, Nestor, down I tell you!”

Well was it for our hero that the faithful animal refused to obey, for just at that moment
an arrow was heard whizzing through the air, and the noble dog fell transfixed through the
neck with the poisoned missile, which else had pierced Hansford's heart.[39] The alarm caused
by so sudden and unexpected an attack had not passed off, before another arrow was buried deep
in our hero's shoulder. But quick as were the movements of the attacking party, the trained
eye of Berkenhead caught a glimpse of the tall form of an Indian as it vanished behind a large
oak tree, about twenty yards from where they stood. The soldier levelled his carbine, and as
Manteo (for the reader has probably already conjectured that it was he) again emerged from
his hiding place to renew the attack, he discharged his piece with deadly aim and effect. With
a wild yell of horror, the young warrior sprang high in the air, and fell lifeless to the ground.

Berkenhead was about to rush forward towards his victim, when Hansford, who still retained
his seat on the horse, though faint from pain and loss of blood, cried out, “Caution, caution,
for God's sake, there are more of the bloody villains about.” But after a few moments' pause,
the apprehension of a further attack passed away, and the soldier and Giles repaired to the
spot. And there in the cold embrace of death, lay the brave young Indian, his painted visage
reddened yet more by the life-blood which still flowed from his wound. His right hand still
grasped the bow-string, as in his last effort to discharge the fatal arrow. A haughty smile
curled his lip even in the moment in which the soul had fled, as if in that last struggle his
brave young heart despised the pang of death itself.

Gazing at him for a moment, yet long enough for old Giles to recognize the features of Manteo
in the bloody corpse, they returned to Hansford, whose condition indeed required their immediate
assistance. Drawing out the arrow, and staunching the blood as well as they could with his
scarf, Berkenhead bandaged it tightly, and although still in great pain, the wounded man was
enabled slowly to continue his journey. A ride of about half an hour brought the little party
to the door of Windsor Hall.

FOOTNOTES:

[39] An incident somewhat similar to this is on record as having actually occurred.

CHAPTER XXVII.

                  “I'll tell thee truth—
    Too oft a stranger to the royal ear,
    But far more wholesome than the honeyed lies
    That fawning flatterers offer.”
                        Any Port in a Storm.

Brief as was the time which had elapsed, the old hall presented a different appearance to Hansford,
from that which it maintained when he last left it under such disheartening circumstances.
The notable mistress of the mansion had spared no pains to prepare for the reception of her
honoured guest; and, although she took occasion to complain to her good husband of his inconsiderate
conduct, in foisting all these strangers upon her at once, yet she inwardly rejoiced at the
opportunity it presented for a display of her admirable housewifery. Indeed, the ease-loving
old Colonel almost repented of his hospitality, amid the bustle and hurry, the scolding of
servants, and the general bad humour which were all necessary incidents to the good dame's
preparation. Having finally “brought things to something like rights,” as she expressed it,
her next care was to provide for the entertainment of her distinguished guest, which to the
mind of the benevolent old lady, consisted not in sparkling conversation, or sage counsels,
(then, alas! much needed by the Governor,) but in spreading a table loaded with a superabundance
of delicacies to tempt his palate, and cause him to forget his troubles. It was a favourite
saying of hers, caught up most probably in her early life, during the civil war in England,
that if the stomach was well garrisoned with food, the heart would never capitulate to sorrow.

But the truth of this apothegm was not sustained in the present instance. Her hospitable efforts,
even when united with the genial good humour and kindness of her husband were utterly unavailing
to dispel the gloom which hung over the inmates of Windsor Hall. Sir William Berkeley was himself
dejected and sad, and communicated his own dejection to all around him. Indeed, since his arrival
at the Hall, he had found good reason to repent his haste in denouncing the popular and gifted
young insurgent. The pledge made by Colonel Temple of the loyalty of the people of Gloucester,
had not been redeemed—at least so far as an active support of the Governor was concerned. Berkeley's
reception by them was cold and unpromising. The enthusiasm which he had hoped to inspire no
where prevailed, and the old man felt himself deserted by those whose zealous co-operation
he had been led to anticipate. It was true that they asserted in the strongest terms their
professions of loyal devotion, and their willingness to quell the first symptoms of rebellion,
but they failed to see anything in the conduct of Bacon to justify the harsh measures of Berkeley
towards him and his followers. “Lip-service—lip-service,” said the old Governor, sorrowfully,
as their decision was communicated to him, “they draw near to me with their mouth, and honour
me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.” But, notwithstanding his disappointment,
nothing could shake the proud spirit of Berkeley in his inflexible resolution, to resist any
encroachments on his prerogative; and, so providing his few followers with arms from the adjacent
fort on York River, he prepared to maintain his power and his dignity by the sword.

Such was the state of things on the evening that Thomas Hansford and his companions arrived
at Windsor Hall. The intelligence of their arrival created much excitement, and the inmates
of the mansion differed greatly in their opinions as to the intention of the young rebel. Poor
Mrs. Temple, in whose mind fear always predominated over every other feeling, felt assured
that Hansford had come, attended by another “ruffian,” forcibly to abduct Virginia from her
home—and a violent fit of hysterics was the result of her suspicions. Virginia herself, vacillating
between hope and fear, trusted, in the simplicity of her young, girlish heart, that her lover
had repented of his grievous error, and had come to claim her love, and to sue to the Governor
for pardon. Sir William Berkeley saw in the mission of Hansford, a faint hope that the rebels,
alarmed by his late proclamation, had determined to return to their allegiance, and that Hansford
was the bearer of a proposition to this effect, imploring at the same time the clemency and
pardon of the government, against which they had so grievously offended.

“And they shall receive mercy, too, at my hands, “said the old knight, as a tear glistened
in his eye. “They have learned to fear the power of the government, and to respect its justice,
and they shall now learn to love its merciful clemency. God forbid, that I should chasten my
repenting people, except as children, for their good.”

“Not so fast, my honoured Governor,” said Philip Ludwell, who, with the other attendants of
Berkeley, had gathered around him in the porch; “you may be mistaken in your opinion. I believe—I
know—that your wish is father to the thought in this matter. But look at the resolution and
determined bearing of that young man. Is his the face or the bearing of a suppliant?”

Ludwell was right. The noble countenance of Hansford, always expressive, though sufficiently
respectful to the presence which he was about to enter, indicated any thing rather than tame
submission. His face was very pale, and his lip quivered for a moment as he approached the
anxious crowd of loyalists, who remained standing in the porch, but it was at once firmly compressed
by the strength of resolution. As he advanced, he raised his hat and profoundly saluted the
Governor, and then drawing himself up to his full height, he stood silently awaiting some one
to speak. Colonel Temple halted a moment between his natural kindness for his friend and his
respect for the presence of Sir William Berkeley. The first feeling prompted him to rush up
to Hansford, and greeting him as of old, to give him a cordial welcome to the hall—but the
latter feeling prevailed. Without advancing, then, he said in a tone, in which assumed displeasure
strove in vain to overcome his native benevolence—

“To what cause am I to attribute this unexpected visit of Mr. Hansford?”

“My business is with Sir William Berkeley,” replied Hansford, respectfully, “and I presume
I am not mistaken in supposing that I am now in his presence.”

“And what would you have from me young man,” said Berkeley, coldly; “your late career has estranged
you and some of your friends so entirely from their Governor, that I feel much honoured by
this evidence of your returning affection.”

“Both I and my friends, as far as I may speak for them,” returned Hansford, in the same calm
tone, “have ever been ready and anxious to show our devotion to our country and its rulers,
and our present career to which your excellency has been pleased to allude, is in confirmation
of the fact. That we have unwittingly fallen under your displeasure, sir, I am painfully aware.
To ascertain the cause of that displeasure is my reason for this intrusion.”

“The cause, young man,” said Berkeley, “is to be found in your own conduct, for which, may
I hope, you have come for pardon?”

“I regret to say that you are mistaken in your conjecture,” replied Hansford. “As it is impossible
that our conduct could have invoked your displeasure, so it is equally impossible that we should
sue for pardon for an offence which we have never committed.”

“And, prythee, what then is your worshipful pleasure, fair sir,” said Berkeley, ironically;
“perhaps, in the abundance of your mercy, you have come to grant pardon, if you do not desire
it. Nay!” he exclaimed, seeing Hansford shake his head; “then, peradventure, you would ask
me to abdicate my government in favour of young Cromwell. I beg pardon—young Bacon, I should
say—the similarity of their views is so striking, that as my memory is but a poor one, I sometimes
confound their names. Well! any thing in reason. Nay, again!—well then, I am at a loss to conjecture,
and you must yourself explain the object of your visit.”

“I would fain convey my instructions to Sir William Berkeley's private ear,” said Hansford,
unmoved by the irony of the old knight.

“Oh pardon me, fair sir,” said Berkeley; “yet, in this I must crave your pardon, indeed. A
sovereign would never wittingly trust himself alone with a rebel, and neither will I, though
only an obscure colonial Governor. There are none but loyal ears here, and I trust Mr. Hansford
has no tidings which can offend them.”

“I am sure,” said Hansford, in reply, “that Sir William Berkeley does not for a moment suspect
that I desired to see him in private from any sinister or treasonable motive.”

“I know, sir,” said Berkeley, angrily, “that you have proved yourself a traitor, and, therefore,
I have the best reason for suspecting you of treasonable designs. But I have no time—no disposition
to dally with you thus. Tell me, what new treason, that my old ears are yet strangers to, I
am yet doomed to hear?”

“My instructions are soon told,” said Hansford, repressing his indignation. “General Nathaniel
Bacon, by virtue of your own commission, Commander-in-chief of the forces of Virginia, desires
to know, and has directed me to inquire, for what cause you have issued a proclamation declaring
both him and his followers traitors to their country and king?”

Berkeley stood the shock much better than Hansford expected. His face flushed for a moment,
but only for a moment, as he replied,—

“This is certainly an unusual demand of a rebel; but sir, as I have nothing to fear from an
exposure of my reasons, I will reply, that Nathaniel Bacon is now in arms against the government
of Virginia.”

“Not unless the government of Virginia be allied with the Indians, against whom he is marching,”
said Hansford, calmly.

“Aye, but it is well known,” returned Berkeley, “that he has covert views of his own to attain,
under pretext of this expedition against the Indians.”

“Why, then,” replied Hansford, “if they are covert from his own followers, proclaim them traitors
with himself; or, if covert from the government, how can you ascertain that they are treasonable?
But, above all, if you suspected such traitorous designs, why, by your commission, elevate
him to a position in which he may be able to execute them with success?”

“'Fore God, gentlemen, this is the most barefaced insolence that I have ever heard. For yourself,
young man, out of your own mouth will I judge you, and convict you of treason; and for your
preceptor—whose lessons, I doubt not, you repeat by rote—you may tell him that his commission
is null and void, because obtained by force and arms.”

“I had not expected to hear Sir William Berkeley make such an acknowledgment,” returned Hansford,
undauntedly. “You yourself declared that the commission was not given from fear of threats;
and even if this were not so, the argument would scarce avail—for on what compulsion was it
that your signature appears in a letter to his majesty, warmly approving the conduct of General
Bacon, and commending him for his zeal, talents and patriotism?”[40]

“Now, by my knighthood,” said Berkeley, stung by this last unanswerable argument, “I will not
be bearded thus by an insolent, braggart boy. Seize him!” he cried, turning to Bernard and
Ludwell, who stood nearest him. “He is my prisoner, and as an example to his vile confederates,
he shall hang in half an hour, until his traitorous tongue has stopped its vile wagging.”

Hansford made no attempt to escape, but, as the two men approached to disarm and bind him,
he fixed his fine blue eyes full upon Colonel Temple, and said, mildly,

“Shall this be so? Though Sir William Berkeley should fail to respect my position, as the bearer
of a peaceable message from General Bacon, I trust that the rites of hospitality may not be
violated, even in my humble person.”

Colonel Temple was much embarrassed. Notwithstanding the recent conduct of Hansford had alienated
him to a great degree, he still entertained a strong affection for his boy—nor could he willingly
see him suffer a wrong when he had thus so confidingly trusted to his generosity. But, apart
from his special interest in Hansford, the old Virginian had a religious regard for the sacred
character of a guest, which he could never forget. And yet, his blind reverence for authority—the
bigoted loyalty which has always made the English people so cautious in resistance to oppression,
and which retarded indeed our own colonial revolution—made him unwilling to oppose his character
of host to the authority of the Governor. He looked first at Sir William Berkeley, and his
resolution was made; he turned to Hansford, and as he saw his noble boy standing resolutely
there, without a friend to aid him, it wavered. The poor old gentleman was sadly perplexed,
but, after a brief struggle, his true, generous heart conquered, and he said, turning to Sir
William:

“My honoured sir, I trust you will not let this matter proceed any further here. My house,
my life, my all, is at the service of the king and of his representative; but I question how
far we are warranted in proceeding to extremities with this youth, seeing that although he
is rather froward and pert in his manners, he may yet mean well after all.”

“Experience should have taught me,” replied Berkeley, coldly, for his evil genius was now thoroughly
aroused, “not to place too much confidence in the loyalty of the people of Gloucester. If Colonel
Temple's resolution to aid the crumbling power of the government has wavered at the sight of
a malapert and rebellious boy, I had better relieve him of my presence, which must needs have
become irksome to him.”

“Nay, Sir William,” returned Temple, reddening at the imputation, “you shall not take my language
thus. Let the youth speak for himself; if he breathes a word of treason, his blood be on his
own head—my hand nor voice shall be raised to save him. But I am unable to construe any thing
which he has yet said as treasonable.” Then turning to Hansford, he added, “speak, Mr. Hansford,
plainly and frankly. What was your object in thus coming? Were you sent by General Bacon, or
did you come voluntarily?”

“Both,” replied Hansford, with a full appreciation of the old man's unfortunate position. “It
was my proposition that some officer of the army should wait upon the Governor, and ascertain
the truth of his rumoured proclamation. I volunteered to discharge the duty in person.”

“And in the event of your finding it to be true,” said Berkeley, haughtily, “what course did
you then intend to pursue?”

This was a dangerous question; for Hansford knew that to express the design of the insurgents
in such an event, would be little less than a confession of treason. But he had a bold heart,
and without hesitation, but still maintaining his respectful manner, he replied,—

“I might evade an answer to your question, by saying, that it would then be time enough to
consider and determine our course. But I scorn to do so, even when my safety is endangered.
I answer candidly then, that in such an event the worst consequences to the country and to
yourself would ensue. It was to prevent these consequences, and as far as I could to intercede
in restoring peace and quiet to our distracted colony, that I came to implore you to withdraw
this proclamation. Otherwise, sir, the sword of the avenger is behind you, and within two days
from this time you will be compelled once more to yield to a current that you cannot resist.
Comply with my request, and peace and harmony will once more prevail; refuse, and let who will
triumph, the unhappy colony will be involved in all the horrors of civil war.”

There was nothing boastful in the manner of Hansford, as he uttered these words. On the contrary,
his whole bearing, while it showed inflexible determination, attested his sincerity in the
wish that the Governor, for the good of the country, would yield to the suggestion. Nor did
Sir William Berkeley, in spite of his indignation, fail to see the force and wisdom of the
views presented; but he had too much pride to acknowledge it to an inferior.

“Now, by my troth,” he cried, “if this be not treason, I am at a loss to define the term. I
should think this would satisfy even your scepticism, Colonel Temple; for it seems we must
consult you in regard to our course while under your roof. You would scarcely consent, I trust,
to a self-convicted traitor going at large.”

“Of course you act in the premises, according to your own judgment,” replied Temple, coldly,
for he was justly offended at the overbearing manner of the incensed old Governor, “but since
you have appealed to me for my opinion, I will e'en make bold to say, that as this young man
came in the character of an intercessor, you might well be satisfied with his parole. I will
myself be surety for his truth.”

“Parole, forsooth, and do you not think I have had enough of paroles from these rebel scoundrels—zounds,
their faith is like an egg-shell, it is made to be broken.”

“With my sincere thanks to my noble friend,” said Hansford, “for his obliging offer, I would
not accept it if I could. Unconscious of having done any thing to warrant this detention, I
am not willing to acknowledge its justice, by submitting to a qualified imprisonment.”

“It is well,” said Berkeley, haughtily; “we will see whether your pride is proof against an
ignominious death. Disarm him and hold him in close custody until my farther pleasure shall
be known.”

As he said this, Hansford was disarmed, and led away under a strong guard to the apartment
which Colonel Temple reluctantly designated as the place of his confinement.

Meantime Berkenhead had remained at the gate, guarded by two of the soldiers of the Governor;
while old Giles, with a light heart, had found his way back to his old stand by the kitchen
door, and was detailing to his astonished cronies the unlucky ventures, and the providential
deliverance, which he had experienced. But we must forbear entering into a detailed account
of the old man's sermon, merely contenting ourselves with announcing, that such was the effect
produced, that at the next baptizing day, old Elder Snivel was refreshed by a perfect pentecost
of converts, who attributed their “new birf” to the wrestling of “brudder Giles.”

We return to Berkenhead, who, at the command of Col. Ludwell, was escorted, under the guard
before mentioned, into the presence of Sir William Berkeley. The dogged and insolent demeanour
of the man was even more displeasing to the Governor than the quiet and resolute manner of
Hansford, and in a loud, threatening voice, he cried,

“Here comes another hemp-pulling knave. 'Fore God, the colony will have to give up the cultivation
of tobacco, and engage in raising hemp, for we are like to have some demand for it. Hark ye,
sir knave—do you know the nature of the message which you have aided in bearing from the traitor
Bacon to myself?”

“Not I, your honour—no more than my carbine knows whether it is loaded or not. It's little
the General takes an old soldier like me into his counsels; but I only know it is my duty to
obey, if I were sent to the devil with a message,” and the villain looked archly at the Governor.

“Your language is something of the most insolent,” said Sir William. “But tell me instantly,
did you have no conversation with Major Hansford on your way hither, and if so, what was it?”

“Little else than abuse, your honour,” returned Berkenhead, “and a threat that I would be beat
over the head if I didn't hold my tongue; and as I didn't care to converse at such a disadvantage,
I was e'en content to keep my own counsel for the rest of the way.”

“Do you, or do you not, consider Bacon and his followers to be engaged in rebellion against
the government?”

“Rebellion, your honour!” cried the renegade. “Why, was it not your honour's self that sent
us after these salvages? An' I thought there was any other design afloat, I would soon show
them who was the rebel. It is not the first time that I have done the State some service by
betraying treason.”

“Look ye,” said the Governor, eyeing the fellow keenly, “if I mistake not, you are an old acquaintance.
Is your name Berkenhead?”

“The same, at your honour's service.”

“And didn't you betray the servile plot of 1662, and get your liberty and a reward for it?”

“Yes, your honour, but I wouldn't have you think that it was for the reward I did it?”

“Oh, never mind your motives. If you are Judas, you are welcome to your thirty pieces of silver,”
said the Governor, with a sneer of contempt. “But to make the analogy complete, you should
be hanged for your service.”

“No, faith,” said the shrewd villain, quickly. “Judas hanged himself, and it would be long
ere ever I sought the apostle's elder tree.[41] And besides, his was the price of innocent
blood, and mine was not. Look at my hand, your honour, and you will see what kind of blood I shed.”

Berkeley looked at the fellow's hand, and saw it stained with the crimson life-blood of the
young Indian. With a thrill of horror, he cried, “What blood is that, you infernal villain?”

“Only fresh from the veins of one of these painted red-skins,” returned Berkenhead. “And red
enough he was when I left him; but, forsooth, he reckons that the paint cost him full dear.
He left his mark on Major Hansford, though, before he left.”

“Where did this happen?” said Berkeley, astonished.

“Oh, not far from here. The red devil was a friend at the hall here, too, or as much so as
their bloody hearts will let any of them be. Colonel Temple, there, knows him, and I have seen
him when I lived in Gloucester. A fine looking fellow, too; and if his skin and his heart had
been both white, there would have been few better and braver dare-devils than young Manteo.”

As he pronounced the name, a wild shriek rent the air, and the distracted Mamalis rushed into
the porch. Her long hair was all dishevelled and flying loosely over her shoulders, her eye
was that of a maniac in his fury, and tossing her bare arms aloft, she shrieked, in a wild,
harsh voice,

“And who are you, that dare to spill the blood of kings? Look to it that your own flows not
less freely in your veins.”

Berkenhead turned pale with fright, and shrinking from the enraged girl, muttered, “the devil!”—while
Temple, in a low voice, whispered to the Governor the necessary explanation, “She is his sister.”

“Yes, his sister!” cried the girl, wildly, for she had overheard the words. “His only sister!—and
my blood now flows in no veins but my own. But the stream runs more fiercely as the channel
is more narrow. Look to it—look to it!” And, with another wild shriek, the maddened girl rushed
again into the house. It required all the tender care of Virginia Temple to pacify the poor
creature. She reasoned, she prayed, she endeavoured to console her; but her reasons, her prayers,
her sweet words of consolation, were all lost upon the heart of the Indian maiden, who nourished
but one fearful, fatal idea—revenge!

FOOTNOTES:

[40] This was indeed true, and renders the conduct of Berkeley entirely inexplicable.

[41] The name given to the tree on which Judas hanged himself.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

    “His flight was madness.”
                      Macbeth.

Yes, Virginia! She who had so much reason for consolation herself, forgot her own sorrows for
the time, in administering the oil of consolation to the poor, wounded, broken-hearted savage
girl. She had been sitting at the window of the little parlour, where she could witness the
whole scene, and hear the whole interview between the Governor and Hansford; and oh! how her
heart had sunk within her as she heard the harsh sentence of the stern old knight, which condemned
her noble, friendless lover to imprisonment, perhaps to death; and yet, a maiden modesty restrained
her from yielding to the impulse of the moment, to throw herself at the feet of Berkeley, confess
her love, and implore his pardon. Alas! ill-fated maiden, it would have been in vain—as she
too truly, too fatally discovered afterwards.

The extraordinary appearance and conduct of Mamalis broke up for the present any further conference
with Berkenhead, who—his mendacity having established his innocence in the minds of the loyalists—walked
off with a swaggering gait, rather elated than otherwise with the result of his interview.
Alfred Bernard followed him until they turned an angle of the house, and stood beneath the
shade of one of the broad oaks, which spread its protecting branches over the yard.

Meantime the Governor, with such of his council as had attended him to Windsor Hall, retired
to the study of the old Colonel, which had been fitted up both for the chamber of his most
distinguished guest and for the deliberations of the council. The subject which now engaged
their attention was one of more importance than any that had ever come before them since the
commencement of the dissensions in Virginia. The mission of Hansford, while it had failed of
producing the effect which he so ardently desired, had, notwithstanding, made a strong impression
upon the mind of the Governor. He saw too plainly that it would be vain to resist the attack
of Bacon, at the head of five hundred men, among whom were to be ranked the very chivalry of
Virginia; while his own force consisted merely of his faithful adherents in the council, and
about fifty mercenary troops, whose sympathies with the insurgents were strongly suspected.

“I see,” said the old man, gloomily, as he took his seat at the council-board, “that I must
seek some other refuge. I am hunted like a wild beast from place to place, through a country
that was once my own, and by those who were once the loving subjects of my king.”

“Remain here!” said the impulsive old Temple. “The people of Gloucester will yet rally around
your standard, when they see open treason is contemplated; and should they still refuse, zounds,
we may yet offer resistance with my servants and slaves.”

“My dear friend,” said Berkeley, sorrowfully, “if all Virginians were like yourself, there
would have been no rebellion—there would have been no difficulty in suppressing one, if attempted.
But alas! the loyalty of the people of Gloucester has already been weighed in the balance and
found wanting. No, I have acted hastily, foolishly, blindly. I have warmed this serpent into
life by my forbearance and indulgence, and must at last be the victim of its venom and my folly.
Oh! that I had refused the commission, which armed this traitor with legal power. I have put
a sword into the hands of an enemy, and may be the first to fall by it.”

“It is useless to repine over the past,” said Philip Ludwell, kindly; “but the power of these
rebels cannot last long. The people who are loyal at heart will fall from their support, and
military aid will be received from England ere long. Then the warmed reptile may be crushed.”

“To my mind,” said Ballard, “it were better to repair the evil that has been done by retracing
our steps, rather than to proceed further. When a man is over his depth, he had better return
to the shore than to attempt to cross the unfathomable stream.”

“Refrain from enigmas, if you please,” said Berkeley, coldly, “and tell me to what you refer.”

“Simply,” replied Ballard, firmly, “that all this evil has resulted from your following the
jesuitical counsel of a boy, rather than the prudent caution of your advisers. My honoured
sir, forgive me if I say it is now your duty to acquiesce in the request of Major Hansford,
and withdraw your proclamation.”

“And succumb to traitors!” cried Berkeley. “Never while God gives me breath to reiterate it.
He who would treat with a traitor, is himself but little better than a traitor.”

The flush which mounted to the brow of Ballard attested his indignation at this grave charge;
but before he had time to utter the retort which rose to his lips, Berkeley added,

“Forgive me, Ballard, for my haste. But the bare idea of making terms with these audacious
rebels roused my very blood. No, no! I can die in defence of my trust, but I cannot, will not
yield it.”

“But it is not yielding,” said Ballard.

“Nay—no more of that,” interrupted Berkeley; “let us devise some other means. I have it,” he
added, after a pause. “Accomac is still true to my interest, and divided from the mainland
by the bay, is difficult of access. There will I pitch my tent, and sound my defiance—and when
aid shall come from England, these proud and insolent traitors shall feel the power of my vengeance
the more for this insult to my weakness.”

This scheme met with the approbation of all present, with the exception of old Ballard, who
shook his head, and muttered, that he hoped it might all be for the best. And so it was determined
that early the next morning the loyal refugees should embark on board a vessel then lying off
Tindal's Point, and sail for Accomac.

“And we will celebrate our departure by hanging up that young rogue, Hansford, in half an hour,”
said Berkeley.

“By what law, may it please your excellency?” asked Ballard, surprised at this threat.

“By martial law.”

“And for what offence?”

“Why zounds, Ballard, you have turned advocate-general for all the rebels in the country,”
said Berkeley, petulantly.

“No, Sir William, I am advocating the cause of justice and of my king.”

“Well, sir, what would you advise? To set the rogue at liberty, I suppose, and by our leniency
to encourage treason.”

“By no means,” said Ballard. “But either to commit him to custody until he may be fairly tried
by a jury of his peers, or to take him with you to Accomac, where, by further developments
of this insurrection, you may better judge of the nature of his offence.”

“And a hospitable reception would await me in Accomac, forsooth, if I appeared there with a
prisoner of war, whom I did not have the firmness to punish as his crime deserves. No, by heaven!
I will not be encumbered with prisoners. His life is forfeit to the law, and as he would prove
an apostle of liberty, let him be a martyr to his cause.”

“Let me add my earnest intercession to that of Colonel Ballard,” said Temple, “in behalf of
this unhappy man. I surely have some claim upon your benevolence, and I ask his life as a personal
boon to me.”

“Oh, assuredly, since you rely upon your hospitable protection to us, you should have your
fee,” said Berkeley, with a sneer. “But not in so precious a coin as a rebel's life. If you
have suffered by the protection afforded to the deputy of your king, you shall not lack remuneration.
But the coin shall be the head of Carolus II.;[42] this rebel's head I claim as my own.”

“Now, by heaven!” returned Temple, thoroughly aroused, “it requires all my loyalty to stomach
so foul an insult. My royal master's exchequer could illy remunerate me for the gross language
heaped upon me by his deputy. But let this pass. You are my guest, sir; and that I cannot separate
the Governor from the man, I am prevented from resenting an insult, which else I could but
little brook.”

“As you please, mine host,” replied Berkeley. “But, in truth, I have wronged you, Temple. But
think, my friend, of the pang the shepherd must feel, when he finds that he has let a wolf
into his fold, which he is unable to resist. Oh, think of this, and bear with me!”

Temple knew the old Governor too well to doubt the sincerity of this retraxit, and with a cordial
grasp of the hand, he assured Berkeley of his forgiveness. “And yet,” he added, warmly, “I
cannot forget the cause I advocate, for this first rebuff. Believe me, Sir William, you will
gain nothing, but lose much, by proceeding harshly against this unhappy young man. In the absence
of any evidence of his guilt, you will arouse the indignation of the colonists to such a height,
that it will be difficult to pacify them.”

“Pardon me, Sir William Berkeley,” said Bernard, who had joined the party, “but would it not
be well to examine this knave, Berkenhead, touching the movements and intentions of the insurgents,
and particularly concerning any expressions which may have fallen from this young gentleman?
If it shall appear that he is guiltless of the crime imputed to him, then you may safely yield
to the solicitations of these gentlemen, and liberate him. But if it shall appear that he is
guilty, they, in their turn, cannot object to his meeting the penalty which his treason richly
deserves.”

“Now, by heaven, the young man speaks truthfully and wisely,” said Temple, assured, by the
former interview with Berkenhead, that he knew of nothing which could convict the prisoner.
“Nor do I see, Sir William, what better course you can adopt than to follow his counsel.”

“Truly,” said Berkeley, “the young man has proven himself the very Elihu of counsellors. 'Great
men are not always wise, neither do the aged understand judgment. But there is a spirit in
man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding.' Yet I fear, Colonel Temple,
you will scarcely, after my impetuosity just now, deem me a Job for patience, though Alfred
may be an Elihu for understanding. Your counsel is good, young man. Let the knave be brought
hither to testify, and look ye that the prisoner be introduced to confront him. My friends,
Ballard and Temple, are such sticklers for law, that we must not deviate from Magna Charta
or the Petition of Right. But stay, we will postpone this matter till the morrow. I had almost
forgotten it was the Sabbath. Loyal churchmen should venerate the day, even when treason is
abroad in the land. Meantime, let the villain Berkenhead be kept in close custody, lest he
should escape.”

FOOTNOTES:

[42] The coin during the reign of Charles II.

CHAPTER XXIX.

    “I tell thee what, my friend,
    He is a very serpent in my way.”
                            King John.

The reader will naturally desire to know what induced the milder counsel recommended by Alfred
Bernard to the Governor. If we have been successful in impressing upon the mind of the reader
a just estimate of the character of the young jesuit, he will readily conjecture that it was
from no kindly feeling for his rival, and no inherent love of justice that he suggested such
a policy; and if he be of a different opinion, he need only go back with us to the interview
between Bernard and Berkenhead, to which allusion was made in the chapter immediately preceding
the last.

We have said that Alfred Bernard followed the renegade rebel until they stood together beneath
a large oak tree which stood at the corner of the house. Here they stopped as if by mutual,
though tacit consent, and Berkenhead turning sharply around upon his companion, said in an
offended tone—“What is your further will with me sir?”

“You seem not to like your comrade Major Hansford?”

“Oh well enough,” replied Berkenhead; “there are many better and many worse than him. But I
don't see how the likes and the dislikes of a poor soldier can have any concernment with you.”

“I assure you,” said Bernard, “it is from no impertinent curiosity, but a real desire to befriend
you, that I ask the question. The Governor strongly suspects your integrity, and that you are
concealing from him more than it suits you to divulge. Now, I would do you a service and advise
you how you may reinstate yourself in his favour.”

“Well, that seems kind on the outside,” said the soldier, “seeing as you seems to be one of
the blooded gentry, and I am nothing but a plain Dunstable.[43] But rough iron is as soft as
polished steel.”

“I believe you,” said Bernard. “Now you have not much reason to waste your love on this Major
Hansford. He threatened to beat you, as you say, and a freeborn Englishman does not bear an
insult like that with impunity.”

“No, your honour,” replied the man, “and I've known the day when a Plymouth cloak[44] would
protect me from insult as well as a frieze coat from cold. But I am too old for that now, and
so I had better swallow an insult dry, than butter it with my own marrow.”

“And are there not other modes of revenge than by a blow? Where are your wits, man? What makes
the man stronger than the horse that carries him? I tell you, a keen wit is to physical force
what your carbine is to the tomahawk of these red-skins. It fires at a distance.”

The old soldier looked up with a gleam of intelligence, and Bernard continued—

“Bethink you, did you hear nothing from Hansford by which you might infer that his ultimate
design was to overturn the government?”

“Why I can't exactly say that I did,” returned the fellow. “To be sure they all prate about
liberty and the like, but I reckon that is an Englishman's privilege, providing he takes it
out in talking. But there may be fire in the bed-straw for all my ignorance.”[45]

“Well, I am sorry for you,” said Bernard, “for if you could only remember any thing to convict
this young rebel, I would warrant you a free pardon and a sound neck.”

“Well, now, as I come to think of it,” said the unscrupulous renegade, “there might be some
few things he let drop, not much in themselves, but taken together, as might weave a right
strong tow; and zounds, I don't think a man can be far wrong to untwist the rope about his
own neck by tying it to another. For concerning of life, your honour, while I have no great
care to risk it in battle, I don't crave to choke it out with one of these hemp cravats. And
so being as I have already done the state some service, I feel it my duty to save her if I can.”

“Now, thanks to that catch-word of the rogue,” muttered Bernard, “I am like to have easy work
to-night. Hark ye, Mr. Berkenhead,” he added, aloud, “I think it is likely that the Governor
may wish to ask you a question or two touching this matter of which we have been speaking.
In the meantime here is something which may help you to get along with these soldiers,” and
he placed a sovereign in the fellow's hand.

“Thank your honour,” said Berkenhead, humbly, “and seeing its not in the way of bribe, I suppose
I may take it.”

“Oh, no bribe,” replied Bernard, smiling, “but mark me, tell a good story. Her old citizenry so have
her, and her calm and keep their attachment.

For Virginia noble Madonna populate however badly, or would have been happy if it had not been of
decree. The affliction take spot during the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth conclusions. The reservation
she think it best to cloister must hither old to her, that at Montreuil,
where she would not to be unanimously prompt of wrongdoing. Accurately
she decease in 1182, having senesce forty-five.

Engineering is noteworthy that her two opinions were legalize, their gens were Ida Maud.
Ida, this senior, marital first Gerard of Gueldres, and invariably, the immature, Maud, more Peer
can be returned of brabant, shortly that it would look a catholic did not occupy some Superior.
That prioress will be postdate one some opinions in rain, that the church. When Matilda decease
in 1219, the gibbet on superior had had many conclusions of fall wrongdoer
by assembly will do, that it drop into change, but the left was reconstruct
by Rex to Amicia.

Towards terminal, episcopalian affliction, and the Archbishop of Rifle appear
into various abocclusion that had turn of more superior and half-sister.

The opinions of fingerprinting and to think the matter prohibit to
take the truth of the persecution that predominate. More prioress was
necessitate in command about 1283 not to potency but formidable father
at constitutional one, actuality.

It was prohibit to an force except the priest, and the abortionist
in instance of condition, to exit that you the cloister; all speech with
foreigner was to give point of attester in grave.

    The sister were prohibit under sojourn that the
    temporalty in Romsey, and same moments like
    assize were order. Philippa and delaware Guildeford were
    infirm moments, and Clementia, Alicia Wynterseshull,
                                        was poisoned ne'er be after vote, but” proof could be make to assassin.
Wholly either on future to deal, or on record on them arrive by religion,
they divide, and Madonna about be the take on being, but not at Romsey.

The enjoining at calm of them are in being: the desirous transaction with what is blameworthy,
do not with another which name for calm. Many change to look he do to us must thus to be trivial. On
religious were prohibit to pest, as the mother who was accuse with give her frump and imp of substance.
Eventually to think to mother was prohibit to occupy into cloister
of the that the“.

In 1333 there were ninety-one, but after lottery, and at fibrinolysis there were only twenty-six.
The command of 1311 were very and nonindulgent, the” of them must be ever arrive you with lockup,
he must prohibit the front, whether male or its boy, in quarters.

Romsey, like firm, he endure sometimes be at Change. The amount of the ninety-one sister in 1333
of vote Johanna can ever icthe has go down under us. The influence make Weymouth from direction, 1348,
and of it decease of prioress, two priest, one prebendary moments, and the father, as of religious
had hid from ninety-one to eighteen, and after the unitedly were so the than twenty-six sister
at Virginia. Former religious not merely be diminish of church but lead to”. Some skeleton and originate
when Elizabeth who interrupt was prioress. Some grounds is yield before Dr. hede, commissary” is
of Canterbury, is however be extinct moments. There were apt complaint against her, that she let more
change of a nun to enation, did not let the conclusions to arrive into consumption at most
building, be handle to intensity, did not lose that record lots,
who endure sundry conclusions to acquire away of ordination, and that
she was lief under mortmain, Seigneur in Bryce.

The period before any you had been accuse with fornication; the she look to have deny with profanity,
and merely, when she could brazen engineering down a further, she squeal to his misdemeanor and
he vacate her agency, reasoning from truth that she could to do;
but like narrative is thereupon like arrive: the half-sister being
necessitate to occupy it of position, really thither re-elective Elizabeth
interrupt.

Two only moments, Elizabeth herself and one same, did not vote for her. The cardinal hid to merrily
be reconstruct it can long to place, but to grade his dissatisfaction in her he forbid her
to force for seven period. A remaining age of concept were not satisfactory.


She seemed to be listening and watching to hear or see the slightest movement from the slumbering
maiden. But all was still!

“I slept not thus,” she murmured, “the night I heard him vow his vengeance against your father.
Before the birds had sung their morning song I came to warn you. Now all I loved, my country,
my friends, my brother, have gone forever, and none shares the tears of the Indian maiden.”

She turned away with a sigh from the bedside of Virginia, and carefully replaced the dagger
in her belt. She then took a key which was lying on the table and clutched it with an air of
triumph. That key she had stolen from the pocket of Alfred Bernard while he slept—for what
will not revenge, and woman's revenge, dare to do. Then taking up a water pitcher, and extinguishing
the light, she softly left the room.

As she endeavoured to pass the outer door she was accosted by the hoarse voice of the sentinel—“Who
comes there?” he cried.

“A friend,” she answered, timidly.

“You cannot pass, friend, without a permit from the Governor. Them's his orders.”

“I go to bring some water for the sick maiden,” she said earnestly, showing him the pitcher.
“She is far from well. Let her not suffer for a draught of water.”

“Well,” said the pliant soldier, yielding; “you are a good pleader, pretty one. That dark face
of yours looks devilish well by moonlight. What say you; if I let you pass, will you come and
sit with me when you get back? It's damned lonesome out here by myself.”

“I will do any thing you wish when I return,” said the girl.

“Easily won, by Wenus,” said the gallant soldier, as he permitted Mamalis to pass on her supposed
errand.

Freed from this obstruction, she glided rapidly through the yard, and soon stood before the
door of the small house which she had learned was appropriated as the prison of Berkenhead.
Turning the key softly in the lock, she pulled the latch-string and gently opened the door.
A flood of moonlight streamed upon the floor, encumbered with a variety of plantation utensils.
By the aid of this light Mamalis soon recognized the form and features of the fated Berkenhead,
who was sleeping in one corner of the room. She knelt over him and feasted her eyes with the
anticipation of her deep revenge. Fearing to be defeated in her design, for with her it was
the foiled attempt and “not the act which might confound,” she bared his bosom and sought his
heart. The motion startled the sleeping soldier. “The devil,” he said, half opening his eyes;
“its damned light.” Just as he pronounced the last word the fatal dagger of Mamalis found its
way into his heart. “It is all dark now,” she said, bitterly, and rising from her victim, she
glided through the door and left him with his God.

With the native shrewdness of her race, Mamalis did not forget that she had still to play a
part, and so without returning directly to the house, she repaired to the well and filled her
pitcher. She even offered the sentinel a drink as she repassed him on her return, and promising
once more to come back, when she had carried the water to the “sick maiden,” she stole quietly
into the room occupied by Bernard, replaced the key in his pocket as before, and hastened up
stairs again.

And there seated once more by the bedside of the sleeping Virginia, the young Indian girl sang,
in a low voice, at once her song of triumph and her brother's dirge, in that rich oriental
improvisation for which the Indians were so remarkable. We will not pretend to give in the
original words of this beautiful requiem, but furnish the reader, in default of a better, with
the following free translation, which may give some faint idea of its beauty:—

“They have plucked the flower from the garden of my heart, and have torn the soil where it
tenderly grew. He was bright and beautiful as the bounding deer, and the shaft from his bow
was as true as his unchanging soul! Rest with the Great Spirit, soul of my brother!

“The Great Spirit looked down in pity on my brother; Manitou has snatched him from the hands
of the dreadful Okee. On the shores of the spirit-land, with the warriors of his tribe he sings
the song of his glory, and chases the spirit deer over the immaterial plains! Rest with the
Great Spirit, soul of my brother!

“But I, his sister, am left lonely and desolate; the hearth-stone of Mamalis is deserted. Yet
has my hand sought revenge for his murder, and my bosom exults over the destruction of his
destroyer! Rest with the Great Spirit, soul of my brother!

“Rest with the Great Spirit, soul of Manteo, till Mamalis shall come to enjoy thy embraces.
Then welcome to thy spirit home the sister of thy youth, and reward with thy love the avenger
of thy death! Rest with the Great Spirit, soul of my brother!”

As her melancholy requiem died away, Mamalis rose silently from the seat, and bent once more
over the form of the sleeping Virginia. As she felt the warm breath of the pure young girl
upon her cheek, and watched the regular beating of her heart, and then contrasted the purity
of the sleeping maiden with her own wild, guilty nature, she started back in horror. For the
first time she felt remorse at the commission of her crime, and with a heavy sigh she hurriedly
left the room, as though it were corrupted by her presence.

CHAPTER XXXI.

    “And smile, and smile, and smile, and be a villain.”
                                              King John.

Great was the horror of the loyalists, on the following morning, at the discovery of the horrible
crime which had been perpetrated; but still greater was the mystery as to who was the guilty
party. There was no mode of getting admittance to the house in which Berkenhead was confined,
except through the door, the key of which was in the possession of Alfred Bernard. Even if
the position and standing of this young man had not repelled the idea that he was cognizant
of the crime, his own unfeigned surprise at the discovery, and the absence of any motive for
its commission, acquitted him in the minds of all. And yet, if this hypothesis was avoided,
it was impossible to form any rational theory on the subject. There were but two persons connected
with the establishment who could be presumed to have any plausible motive for murdering Berkenhead.
Hansford might indeed be suspected of a desire to suppress evidence which would be dangerous
to his own safety, but then Hansford was himself in close confinement. Mamalis, too, had manifested
a spirit, the evening before, towards the unhappy man, which might very naturally subject her
to suspicion; but, besides that, she played her part of surprise to perfection—it could not
be conceived how she had gotten possession of the key of the room. The sentinel might indeed
have thrown much light upon the subject, but he kept his own counsel for fear of the consequences
of disobedience to orders; and he boldly asserted that no one had left the house during the
night. This evidence, taken in connection with the fact that the young girl was found sleeping,
as usual, in the little room adjoining Virginia's chamber, entirely exculpated her from any
participation in the crime. Nothing then was left for it, but to suppose that the unhappy man,
in a fit of desperation, had himself put a period to his existence. A little investigation
might have easily satisfied them that such an hypothesis was as groundless as the rest; for
it was afterwards ascertained by Colonel Temple, after a strict search, that no weapon was
found on or near the body, nor in the apartment where it lay. But Sir William Berkeley, anxious
to proceed upon his way to Accomac, and caring but little, perhaps, for the fate of a rebel,
whose life was probably shortened but a few hours, gave the affair a very hurried and summary
examination. Bernard, with his quick sagacity, discovered, or at least shrewdly suspected,
the truth, and Mamalis felt, as he fixed his dark eyes upon her, that he had read the mystery
of her heart. But, for his own reasons, the villain for the present maintained the strictest
silence on the subject.

But this catastrophe, so fatal to Berkenhead, was fortunate for young Hansford. The Governor,
more true to his word to loyalists than he had hitherto been to the insurgents, released our
hero from imprisonment, in the absence of any testimony against him. And, to the infinite chagrin
of Alfred Bernard, his rival, once more at liberty, was again, in the language of the treacherous
Plantagenet, “a very serpent in his way.” He had too surely discovered, that so long as Hansford
lived, the heart of Virginia Temple, or what he valued far more, her hand, could never be given
to another; and yet he felt, that if he were out of the way, and that heart, though widowed,
free to choose again, the emotions of mistaken gratitude would prompt her to listen with favour
to his suit. With all his faults, too, and with his mercenary motives, Bernard was not without
a feeling, resembling love, for Virginia. We are told that there are fruits and flowers which,
though poisonous in their native soil, when transplanted and cherished under more genial circumstances,
become at once fair to the eye and wholesome to the taste. It is thus with love. In the wild,
sterile heart of Alfred Bernard it had taken root, and poisoned all his nature; but yet it
was the same emotion which shed a genial influence over the manly heart of Hansford. If it
had been otherwise, there were some as fair, and many far more wealthy, in his adopted colony,
than Virginia Temple. But she was at once adapted to his interests, his passions, and his intellect.
She could aid his vaulting ambition by sharing with him her wealth; she could control, by the
strength of her character, and the sweetness of her disposition, his own wild nature; and she
could be the instructive and congenial companion of his intellect. And all this rich treasure
might be his but for the existence, the rivalry of the hated Hansford. Still his ardent nature
led him to hope. With all his heart he would engage in quelling the rebellion, which he foresaw
was about to burst upon the colony; and then revenge, the sweetest morsel to the jealous mind,
was his. Meantime, he must look the innocent flower, but be the serpent under it; and curbing
his own feelings, must, under pretence of friendship and interest for a rival, continue to
plot his ruin. Alfred Bernard was equal to the task.

It was with these feelings that he sought Virginia Temple on the eve of his departure from
Windsor Hall. The young girl was seated, with her lover, on a rude, rustic bench, beneath the
large oak where Bernard had, the evening before, had an interview with the unfortunate Berkenhead.
As he approached, she rose, and with her usual winning frankness of manner, she extended her hand.

“Come, Mr. Bernard,” she said, “I have determined that you and Major Hansford shall be friends.”

“Most willingly, on my part,” said the smooth-tongued Bernard. “And I think I have given the
best evidence of my disposition to be so, by aiding feebly in restoring to Miss Temple an old
friend, when she must now so soon part with her more recent acquaintance.”

“I am happy to think,” said Hansford, whose candour prevented him from suppressing entirely
the coldness of his manner, “that I am indebted to Mr. Bernard for any interest he may have
taken in my behalf. I hope, sir, you will now add to the obligation under which I at present
rest to you, by apprising me in what manner you have so greatly obliged me.”

“Why, you must be aware,” replied Bernard, “that your present freedom from restraint is due
to my interposition with Sir William Berkeley.”

“Oh yes, indeed,” interposed Virginia, “for I heard my father say that it was Mr. Bernard's
wise suggestion, adopted by the Governor, which secured your release.”

“Hardly so,” returned Hansford, “even if such were his disposition. But, if I am rightly informed,
your assistance only extended to a very natural request, that I should not be judged guilty
so long as there was no evidence to convict me. If I am indebted to Mr. Bernard for impressing
upon the mind of the Governor a principle of law as old, I believe, as Magna Charta, I must
e'en render him the thanks which are justly his due, and which he seems so anxious to demand.”

“Mr. Hansford,” said Virginia, “why will you persist in being so obstinate? Is it such a hard
thing, after all, for one brave man to owe his life to another, or for an innocent man to receive
justice at the hands of a generous one? And at least, I should think, she added, with the least
possible pout, “that, when I ask as a favour that you should be friends, you should not refuse me.”

“Indeed, Miss Virginia,” said Alfred Bernard, without evincing the slightest mark of displeasure;
“you urge this reconciliation too far. If Major Hansford have some secret cause of enmity or
distrust towards me, of which I am ignorant, I beg that you will not force him to express a
sentiment which his heart does not entertain. And as for his gratitude, which he seems to think
that I demand, I assure you, that for any service which I may have done him, I am sufficiently
compensated by my own consciousness of rectitude of purpose, and nobly rewarded by securing
your approving smile.”

“Nobly, generously said, Mr. Bernard,” replied Virginia, “and now I have indeed mistaken Mr.
Hansford's character if he fail to make atonement for his backwardness, by a full, free, and
cordial reconciliation.”

“I must needs give you my left hand, then,” said Hansford, extending his hand with as much
cordiality as he could assume; “my right arm is disabled as you perceive, by a wound inflicted
by one of the enemies of my country, against whom it would seem it is treason to battle.”

“Nay, if you go into that hateful subject again,” said Virginia, “I fear there is not much
cordiality in your heart yet.”

“Oh! you are mistaken, Miss Temple,” said Bernard, gaily; “you must remember the old adage,
that the left is nearest to the heart. Believe me, Major Hansford and myself will be good friends
yet, and when we hereafter shall speak of our former estrangement, it will only be to remember
by whose gentle influence we were reconciled. But permit me to hope, Major, that your wound
is not serious.”

“A mere trifle, I believe, sir,” returned Hansford, “but I am afraid I will suffer some inconvenience
from it for some time, as it is the sword arm; and in these troublous times it may fail me,
when it should be prepared to defend.”

“An that were the only use to which you would apply it,” said Virginia, half laughing, and
half in earnest, “I would sincerely hope that it might never heal.”

“Oh fear not but that it will soon heal,” said Bernard. “The most dangerous wounds are inflicted
here,” laying his hand upon his heart; “a wound dealt not by a savage, but by an angel; not
from the arrow of the ambushed Indian, but from the quiver of the mischievous little blind
boy—and the more fatal, because we insanely delight to inflame the wound instead of seeking
to cure it.”

“Well really, Mr. Bernard,” said Virginia, rallying the gay young euphuist, “the flowers of
gallantry which you have brought from Windsor Court, thanks to your fostering care, flourish
quite as sweetly in this wilderness of Windsor Hall. Take pity on an illiterate colonial girl,
and tell me whether this is the language of Waller, Cowley or Dryden?”

“It is the language of the heart, Miss Temple, on the present occasion at least,” said Bernard,
gravely; “for I am admonished that it is time I should say farewell. Without flowers or poetry,
Miss Virginia, I bid you adieu. May you be happy, and derive from your association with others
that high enjoyment which you are so capable of bestowing. Farewell, Major Hansford, we may
meet again, I trust, when it will not be necessary to invoke the interposition of a fair mediator
to effect a reconciliation.”

Hansford well understood the innuendo contained in the last words of Bernard, but taking the
well-timed hint, refrained from expressing it more clearly, and gave his hand to his rival
with every appearance of cordiality. And Virginia, misconstruing the words of the young jesuit,
frankly extended her own hand, which he pressed respectfully to his lips, and then turned silently
away.

“Well, I am delighted,” said Virginia to her lover, when they were thus left alone, “that you
are at last friends with Bernard. You see now that I was right and you were wrong in our estimates
of his character.”

“Indeed I do not, my dear Virginia; on the contrary, this brief interview has but confirmed
my previously formed opinion.”

“Oh! that is impossible, Hansford; you are too suspicious, indeed you are. I never saw more
refinement and delicacy blended with more real candour. Indeed, Hansford, he is a noble fellow.”

“I am sorry to differ with you, dearest; but to my mind his refinement is naught but Jesuitical
craft; his delicacy the result of an educational schooling of the lip, to conceal the real
feelings of his heart; and his candour but the gilt washing which appears like gold, but after
all, only hides the baser metal beneath it.”

“Well, in my life I never heard such perversion! Really, Hansford, you will make me think you
are jealous.”

“Jealous, Virginia, jealous!” said Hansford, in a sorrowful tone. “Alas! if I were even capable
of such a feeling, what right have I to entertain it? Your heart is free, and torn from the
soil which once cherished it, may be transplanted elsewhere, while the poor earth where once
it grew can only hope now and then to feel the fragrance which it sheds on all around. No,
not jealous, Virginia, whatever else I may be!”

“You speak too bitterly, Hansford; have I not assured you that though a harsh fate may sever
us; though parental authority may deny you my hand, yet my heart is unalterably yours. But
tell me, why it is that you can see nothing good in this young man, and persist in perverting
every sentiment, every look, every expression to his injury?”

Before Hansford could reply, the shrill voice of Mrs. Temple was heard, crying out; “Virginia
Temple, Virginia Temple, why where can the child have got to!”—and at the same moment the old
lady came bustling round the house, and discovered the unlawful interview of the lovers.

Rising hastily from her seat, Virginia advanced to her mother, who, without giving her time
to speak, even had she been so inclined, sang out at the top of her voice—“Come along, my daughter.
Here are the guests in your father's house kept waiting in the porch to tell you good-bye,
and you, forsooth, must be talking, the Lord knows what, to that young scape-gallows yonder,
who hasn't modesty enough to know when and where he's wanted.”

“Dear mother, don't speak so loud,” whispered the poor girl.

“Don't talk so loud, forsooth—and why? They that put themselves where they are not wanted and
not asked, must expect to hear ill of themselves.”

“There comes my pretty Jeanie,” said her old father, as he saw her approach. “And so you found
her at last, mother. Come here, dearest, we have been waiting for you.”

The sweet tones of that gentle voice, which however harsh at times to others, were ever modulated
to the sweetest music when he spoke to her, fell upon the ears of the poor confused and mortified
girl, in such comforting accents, that the full heart could no longer restrain its gushing
feelings, and she burst into tears. With swollen eyes and with a heavy heart she bade adieu
to the several guests, and as Sir William Berkeley, in the mistaken kindness of his heart,
kissed her cheek, and whispered that Bernard would soon return and all would be happy again,
she sobbed as if her gentle heart would break.

“I always tell the Colonel that he ruins the child,” said Mrs. Temple to the Governor, with
one of her blandest smiles, on seeing this renewed exhibition of sensibility. “It was not so
in our day, Lady Frances; we had other things to think about than crying and weeping. Tears
were not so shallow then.”

Lady Frances Berkeley nodded a stately acquiescence to this tribute to the stoicism of the
past, and made some sage, original and relevant reflection, that shallow streams ever were
the most noisy—and then kissing the weeping girl, repeated the grateful assurance that Bernard
would not be long absent, and that she herself would be present at the happy bridal, to taste
the bride's cake and quaff the knitting cup,[46] with other like consolations well calculated
to restore tranquillity and happiness to the bosom of the disconsolate Virginia.

And so the unfortunate Berkeley commenced that fatal flight, which contributed so largely to
divert the arms of the insurgents from the Indians to the government, and to change what else
might have been a mere unauthorized attack upon the common enemies of the country into a protracted
and bloody civil war.

Hansford did not long remain at Windsor Hall, after the departure of the loyalists. He would
indeed have been wanting in astuteness if he had not inferred from the direct language of Mrs.
Temple that he was an unwelcome visitant at the mansion. But more important, if not more cogent
reasons urged his immediate departure. He saw at a glance the fatal error committed by Berkeley
in his flight to Accomac, and the immense advantage it would be to the insurgents. He wished,
therefore, without loss of time to communicate the welcome intelligence to Bacon and his followers,
who, he knew, were anxiously awaiting the result of his mission.

Ordering his horse, he bade a cordial adieu to the good old colonel, who, as he shook his hand,
said, with a tear in his eye, “Oh, my boy, my boy! if your head were as near right as I believe
your heart is, how I would love to welcome you to my bosom as my son.”

“I hope, my kind, my noble friend,” said Hansford, “that the day may yet come when you will
see that I am not wholly wrong. God knows I would almost rather err with you than to be right
with any other man.” Then bidding a kind farewell to Mrs. Temple and Virginia, to which the
old lady responded with due civility, but without cordiality, he vaulted into the saddle and
rode off—and as long as the house was still in view, he could see the white 'kerchief of Virginia
from the open window, waving a last fond adieu to her unhappy lover.

FOOTNOTES:

[46] A cup drunk at the marriage ceremony in honour of the bride.

CHAPTER XXXII.

    “The abstract and brief chronicle of the time.”
                                                    Hamlet.

It is not our purpose to trouble the reader with a detailed account of all the proceedings
of the famous Rebellion, which forms the basis of our story. We, therefore, pass rapidly over
the stirring incidents which immediately succeeded the flight of Sir William Berkeley. Interesting
as these incidents may be to the antiquary or historian, they have but little to do with the
dramatis personæ of this faithful narrative, in whose fate we trust our readers are somewhat
interested. Accomac is divided from the mainland of Virginia by the broad Chesapeake Bay. Although
contained in the same grant which prescribed the limits to the colony, and although now considered
a part of this ancient commonwealth, there is good reason to believe that formerly it was considered
in a different light. In one of the earliest colonial state papers which has been preserved,
the petition of Morryson, Ludwell & Smith, for a reformed charter for the colony, the petitioners
are styled the “agents for the governor, council and burgesses of the country of Virginia and
territory of Accomac;” and although this form of phraseology appears in but few of the records,
yet it would appear that the omission was the result of mere convenience in style, just as
Victoria is more frequently styled the Queen of England, than called by her more formal title
of Queen of the United Kingdoms of Great Britain and Ireland, by the Grace of God, Defender
of the Faith. It was, therefore, not without reason, that Nathaniel Bacon, glad at least of
a pretext for advancing his designs, should have considered the flight of Sir William Berkeley
to Accomac as a virtual abdication of his authority, more especially as it had been ordained
but two years before by the council at Whitehall, that the governor should be actually a resident
of Virginia, unless when summoned by the King to England or elsewhere. At least it was a sufficient
pretext for the young insurgent, who, in the furtherance of his designs did not seem to be
over-scrupulous in regard to the powers with which he was clothed. But twelve years afterwards
a similar pretext afforded by the abdication of James the Second, relieved the British government
of one of the most serious difficulties which has arisen in her constitutional history.

Without proceeding on his expedition against the Indians, Bacon had no sooner heard of the
abdication of the governor than he retired to the Middle Plantation, the site of the present
venerable city of Williamsburg. Here, summoning a convention of the most prominent citizens
from all parts of the colony, he declared the government vacated by the voluntary abdication
of Berkeley, and in his own name, and the name of four members of the council, proceeded to
issue writs for a meeting of the Assembly. It is but just to the memory of this great man to
say, that this Assembly, convened by his will, and acting, as may well be conceived, almost
exclusively under his dictation, has left upon our statute books laws “the most wholesome and
good,” for the benefit of the colony, and the most conducive to the advancement of rational
liberty. The rights of property remained inviolate—the reforms were moderate and judicious,
and the government of the colony proceeded as quietly and calmly after the accomplishment of
the revolution, as though Sir William Berkeley were still seated in his palace as the executive
magistrate of Virginia. A useful lesson did this young colonial rebel teach to modern reformers
who would defame his name—the lesson that reform does not necessarily imply total change, and
that there is nothing with which it is more dangerous to tamper than long established usage.
The worst of all quacks are those who would administer their sovereign nostrums to the constitution
of their country.

The reader of history need not be reminded that the expedition of Bland and Carver, designed
to surprise Sir William Berkeley in his new retreat, was completely frustrated by the treachery
of Larimore, and its unfortunate projectors met, at the hands of the stern old Governor, a
traitor's doom. Thus the drooping hopes of the loyalists were again revived, and taking advantage
of this happy change in the condition of affairs, Berkeley with his little band of faithful
adherents returned by sea to Jamestown, and fortified the place to the best of their ability
against the attacks of the rebels.

Nor were the insurgents unwilling to furnish them an opportunity for a contest. The battle
of Bloody Run is memorable in the annals of the colony as having forever annihilated the Indian
power in Eastern Virginia. Like the characters in Bunyan's sublime vision, this unhappy race,
so long a thorn in the side of the colonists, had passed away, and “they saw their faces no
more.” But his very triumph over the savage enemies of his country, well nigh proved the ruin
of the young insurgent. Many of his followers, who had joined him with a bona fide design of
extirpating the Indian power, now laid down their arms, and retired quietly to their several
homes. Bacon was thus left with only about two hundred adherents, to prosecute the civil war
which the harsh and dissembling policy of Berkeley had invoked; while the Governor was surrounded
by more than three times that number, with the entire navy of Virginia at his command, and,
moreover, secure behind the fortifications of Jamestown. Yet did not the brave young hero shrink
from the contest. Though reduced in numbers, those that remained were in themselves a host.
They were all men of more expanded views, and more exalted conceptions of liberty, than many
of the medley crew who had before attended him. They fought in a holier cause than when arrayed
against the despised force of their savage foes, and, moreover, they fought in self-defence.
For, too proud and generous to desert their leader in his hour of peril, each of his adherents
lay under the proscriptive ban of the revengeful Governor, as a rebel and a traitor. No sooner,
therefore, did Bacon hear of the return of Berkeley to Jamestown, than, with hasty marches,
he proceeded to invest the place. It is here, then, that we resume the thread of our broken
narrative.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

                    “When Liberty rallies
    Once more in thy regions, remember me then.”
                                              Byron.

It was on a calm, clear morning in the latter part of the month of September, that the little
army of Nathaniel Bacon, wearied and worn with protracted marches, and with hard fought battles,
might be seen winding through the woodland district to the north of Jamestown. The two cavaliers,
who led the way a little distance ahead of the main body of the insurgents, were Bacon and
his favourite comrade, Hansford—engaged, as before, in an animated, but now a more earnest
conversation. The brow of the young hero was more overcast with care and reflection than when
we last saw him. The game, which he had fondly hoped was over, had yet to be played, and the
stake that remained was far more serious than any which had yet been risked. During the brief
interval that his undisputed power existed, the colony had flourished and improved, and the
bright dream which he had of her approaching delivery from bondage, seemed about to be realized.
And now it was sad and disheartening to think that the battle must again be fought, and with
such odds against him, that the chances of success were far more remote than ever. But Bacon
was not the man to reveal his feelings, and he imparted to others the cheerfulness which he
failed to feel himself. From time to time he would ride along the broken ranks, revive their
drooping spirits, inspire them with new courage, and impart fresh ardor into their breasts
for the glorious cause in which they were engaged. Then rejoining Hansford, he would express
to him the fears and apprehensions which he had so studiously concealed from the rest.

It was on one of these occasions, after deploring the infatuated devotion of so many of the
colonists to the cause of blind loyalty, and the desertion of so many on whom he had relied
to co-operate in his enterprize, that he said, bitterly:

“I fear sometimes, my friend, that we have been too premature in our struggle for liberty.
Virginia is not yet ready to be free. Her people still hug the chains which enslave them.”

“Alas!” said Hansford, “it is too true that we cannot endue the infant in swaddling bands with
the pride and strength of a giant. The child who learns to walk must meet with many a fall,
and the nation that aspires to freedom will often be checked by disaster and threatened with ruin.”

“And this it is,” said Bacon, sorrowfully, “that makes me sick at heart. Each struggle to be
free sinks the chain of the captive deeper into his flesh. And should we fail now, my friend,
we but tighten the fetters that bind us.”

“Think not thus gloomily on the subject,” replied Hansford. “Believe me, that you have already
done much to develope the germ of freedom in Virginia. It may be that it may not expand and
grow in our brief lives; and even though our memory may pass away, and the nation we have served
may fail to call us blessed, yet they will rejoice in the fruition of that freedom for which
we may perish. Should the soldier repine because he is allotted to lead a forlorn hope? No!
there is a pride and a glory to know, that his death is the bridge over which others will pass
to victory.”

“God bless your noble soul, Hansford,” said Bacon, with the intensest admiration. “It is men
like you and not like me who are worthy to live in future generations. Men who, regardless
of the risk or sacrifice of self, press onward in the discharge of duty. Love of glory may
elevate the soul in the hour of triumph, but love of duty, and firmness resolutely to discharge
it, can alone sustain us in the hour of peril and trial.”

This was at last the difference between the two men. Intense desire for personal fame, united
with a subordinate love of country impelled Bacon in his course. Inflexible resolution to discharge
a sacred duty, an entire abnegation of self in its performance, and the strongest convictions
of right constituted the incentives to Hansford. It was this that in the hour of their need
sustained the heart of Hansford, while the more selfish but noble heart of his leader almost
sank within him; and yet the effects upon the actions of the two were much the same. The former,
unswayed by circumstances however adverse, pressed steadily and firmly on; while the latter,
with the calmness of desperation, knowing that safety, and (what was dearer) glory, lay in
the path of success, braced himself for the struggle with more than his usual resolution.

“But, alas!” continued Bacon, in the same melancholy tone, “if we should fail, how hard to
be forgotten. Your name and memory to perish among men forever—your very grave to be neglected
and uncared for; and this living, breathing frame, instinct with life, and love, and glory,
to pass away and mingle with the dust of the veriest worm which crawls upon the earth. Oh,
God! to be forgotten, to leave no impress on the world but what the next flowing tide may efface
forever. Think of it, realize it, Hansford—to be forgotten!”

“It would, indeed, be a melancholy thought,” said Hansford, with a deep sympathy for his friend—“if
this were all. But when we remember that we stand but on the threshold of existence, and have
a higher, a holier destiny to attain beyond, we need care but little for what is passing here.
I have sometimes thought, my friend, that as in manhood we sometimes smile at the absurd frivolities
which caught our childish fancy, so when elevated to a higher sphere we would sit and wonder
at the interest which we took in the trifling pleasures, the empty honours, and the glittering
toys of this present life.”

“And do you mean to say that honour and glory are nothing here?”

“Only so far as they reflect the honour and glory which are beyond.”

“Pshaw, man!” cried Bacon, “you do not, you cannot think so. You ask me the reason of this
desire for fame and remembrance when we are dust. I tell you it is an instinct implanted in
us by the Almighty to impel us to glorious deeds.”

“Aye,” said Hansford, quietly, “and when that desire, by our own indulgence, becomes excessive,
just as the baser appetites of the glutton or the debauchee, it becomes corrupt and tends to
our destruction.”

“You are a curious fellow, Hansford,” said Bacon, laughing, “and should have been one of old
Noll's generals—for I believe you can preach as well as you can fight, and believe me that
is no slight commendation. But you must excuse me if I cannot agree with you in all of your
sentiments. I am sorry to say that old Butler's 'pulpit drum ecclesiastic' seldom beat me to
a church parade while I was in England, and here in Virginia they send us the worst preachers,
as they send us the worst of every thing. But a truce to the subject. Tell me are you a believer
in presentiments?”

“Surely such things are possible, but I believe them to be rare,” replied his companion. “Future
events certainly make an impression upon the animal creation, and I know not why man should
be exempt entirely from a similar law. The migratory birds will seek a more southern clime,
even before a change of weather is indicated by the wind, and the appearance of the albatross,
or the bubbling of the porpoise, if we may believe the sailors' account, portend a storm.”

“These phenomena,” suggested Bacon, “may easily be explained by some atmospheric influence,
insensible to our nature, but easily felt by them.”

“I might answer,” replied Hansford, “that if insensible to us, we are not warranted in presuming
their existence. But who can tell in the subtle mechanism of the mind how sensitive it may
be to the impressions of coming yet unseen events. At least, all nations have believed in the
existence of such an influence, and the Deity himself has deigned to use it through his prophets,
in the revelation of his purposes to man.”

“Well, true or not,” said Bacon, in a low voice, “I have felt the effect of such a presentiment
in my own mind, and although I have tried to resist its influence I have been unable to do
so. There is something which whispers to me, Hansford, that I will not see the consummation
of my hopes in this colony—and that dying I shall leave behind me an inglorious name. For what
at last is an unsuccessful patriot but a rebel. And oh, as I have listened to the monitions
of this demon, it seemed as though the veil of futurity were raised, and I could read my fate
in after years. Some future chronicler will record this era of Virginia's history, and this
struggle for freedom on the part of her patriot children will be styled rebellion; our actions
misrepresented; our designs misinterpreted; and I the leader and in part the author of the
movement will be handed down with Wat Tyler and Jack Cade to infamy, obloquy and reproach.”

“Think not thus gloomily,” said Hansford, “the feelings you describe are often suggested to
an excited imagination by the circumstances with which it is surrounded; just as dreams are
the run mad chroniclers of our daily thoughts and hopes and apprehensions. You should not yield
to them, General, they unman you or at least unfit you for the duties which lie before you.”

“You are right,” returned Bacon; “and I banish them from me forever. I have half a mind to
acknowledge myself your convert, Hansford; eschew the gaily bedizzened Glory, and engage your
demure little Quaker, Duty, as my handmaiden in her place.”

“I will feel but too proud of such a convert to my creed,” said Hansford laughing. “And now
what of your plans on Jamestown?”

“Why to tell you the truth,” said Bacon gravely; “I am somewhat at fault in regard to my actions
there. I could take the town in a day, and repulse those raw recruits of the old Governor with
ease, if they would only sally out. But I suspect the old tyrant will play a safe game with
me—and securely ensconced behind his walls, will cut my brave boys to pieces with his cannon
before I can make a successful breach.”

“You could throw up breastworks for your protection,” suggested Hansford.

“Aye, but I fear it would be building a stable after the horse was stolen. With our small force
we could not resist their guns while we were constructing our fortifications. But I will try
it by night, and we may succeed. The d——d old traitor—if he would only meet me in open field,
I could make my way 'through twenty times his stop.'”

“Well, we must encounter some risk,” replied Hansford. “I have great hopes from the character
of his recruits, too. Though they number much more than ourselves, yet they serve without love,
and in the present exhausted exchequer of the colony, are fed more by promises than money.”

“They are certainly not likely to be fed by angels,” said Bacon, “as some of the old prophets
are said to have been. But, Hansford, an idea has just struck me, which is quite a new manœuvre
in warfare, and from which your ideas of chivalry will revolt.”

“What is it?” asked Hansford eagerly.

“Why if it succeeds,” returned Bacon, “I will warrant that Jamestown is in our hands in twenty-four
hours, without the loss of more blood than would fill a quart canteen.”

“Bravo, then, General, if you add such an important principle to the stock of military tactics,
I'll warrant that whispering demon lied, and that you will retain both Glory and Duty in your
service.”

“I am afraid you will change your note, Thomas, when I develope my plan. It is simply this—to
detail a party of men to scour the country around Jamestown, and collect the good dames and
daughters of our loyal councillors. If we take them with us, I'll promise to provide a secure
defence against the enemies' fire. The besieged will dare not fire a gun so long as there is
danger of striking their wives and children, and we, in the meantime, secure behind this temporary
breastwork, will prepare a less objectionable defence. What think you of the plan, Hansford?”

“Good God!” cried Hansford, “You are not in earnest General Bacon?”

“And why not?” said Bacon, in reply. “If such a course be not adopted, at least half of the
brave fellows behind us will be slaughtered like sheep. While no harm can result to the ladies
themselves, beyond the inconvenience of a few hours' exposure to the night air, which they
should willingly endure to preserve life.”

Hansford was silent. He knew how useless it was to oppose Bacon when he had once resolved.
His chivalrous nature revolted at the idea of exposing refined and delicate females to such
a trial. And yet he could not deny that the project if successfully carried out would be the
means of saving much bloodshed, and of ensuring a speedy and easy victory to the insurgents.

“Why, what are you thinking of, man,” said Bacon gaily. “I thought my project would wound your
delicate sensibilities. But to my mind there is more real chivalry and more true humanity in
sparing brave blood to brave hearts, than in sacrificing it to a sickly regard for a woman's
feelings.”

“The time has been when brave blood would have leaped gushing from brave hearts,” said Hansford
proudly, “to protect woman from the slightest shadow of insult.”

“Most true, my brave Chevalier Bayard,” said Bacon, in a tone of unaffected good humor, “and
shall again—and mine, believe me, will not be more sluggish in such a cause than your own.
But here no insult is intended and none will be given. These fair prisoners shall be treated
with the respect due to their sex and station. My hand and sword for that. But the time has
been when woman too was willing to sacrifice her shrinking delicacy in defence of her country.
Wot ye how Rome was once saved by the noble intercession of the wife and mother of Caius Marcus—or
how the English forces were beaten from the walls of Orleans by the heroic Joan, or how—”

“You need not multiply examples,” said Hansford interrupting him, “to show how women of a noble
nature have unsexed themselves to save their country. Your illustrations do not apply, for
they did voluntarily what the ladies of Virginia must do upon compulsion. But, sir, I have
no more to say. If you persist in this resolution, unchivalrous as I believe it to be, yet
I will try to see my duty in ameliorating the condition of these unhappy females as far as
possible.”

“And in me you shall have been a most cordial coadjutor,” returned Bacon. “But, my dear fellow,
your chivalry is too shallow. Excuse me, if I say that it is all mere sentiment without a substratum
of reason. Now look you—you would willingly kill in battle the husbands of these ladies, and
thus inflict a life-long wound upon them, and yet you refuse to pursue a course by which lives
may be saved, because it subjects them to a mere temporary inconvenience. But look again. Have
you no sympathy left for the wives, no chivalry for the daughters of our own brave followers,
whose hearts will be saved full many a pang by a stratagem, which will ensure the safety of
their protectors. Believe me, my dear Hansford, if chivalry be nought but a mawkish sentiment,
which would throw away the real substance of good, to retain the mere shadow reflected in its
mirror, like the poor dog in the fable—the sooner its reign is over the better for humanity.”

“But, General Bacon,” said Hansford, by no means convinced by the sophistry of his plausible
leader, “if the future chronicler of whom you spoke, should indeed write the history of this
enterprise, he will record no fact which will reflect less honour upon your name, than that
you found a means for your defence in the persons of defenceless women.”

“So let it be, my gallant chevalier,” replied Bacon, gaily, determined not to be put out of
humour by Hansford's grave remonstrance. “But you have taught me not to look into future records
for my name, or for the vindication of my course—and your demure damsel Duty has whispered
that I am in the path of right. Look ye, Hansford, don't be angry with your friend; for I assure
you on the honour of a gentleman, that the dames themselves will bear testimony to the chivalry
of Nathaniel Bacon. And besides, my dear fellow, we will not impress any but the sterner old
dames into our service. You know the older they are the better they will serve for material
for an impregnable fortress.”

So saying, Bacon ordered a halt, and communicating to his soldiers his singular design, he
detailed Captain Wilford and a party of a dozen men, selected on account of their high character,
to capture and bring into his camp the wives of certain of the royalists, who, though residing
in the country, had rallied to the support of Sir William Berkeley, on his return to Jamestown.
In addition to these who were thus found in their several homes, the detailed corps had intercepted
the carriage of our old friend, Colonel Temple; for the old loyalist had no sooner heard of
the return of Sir William Berkeley, than he hastened to join him at the metropolis, leaving
his wife and daughter to follow him on the succeeding day. What was the consternation and mortification
of Thomas Hansford as he saw the fair Virginia Temple conducted, weeping, into the rude camp
of the insurgents, followed by her high-tempered old mother, who to use the chaste and classic
simile of Tony Lumpkin, “fidgeted and spit about like a Catherine wheel.”

CHAPTER XXXIV.

    “It is the cry of women, good, my lord.”
                                            Macbeth.

Agreeably with the promise of Bacon, the captured ladies were treated with a respect and deference
which allayed in a great degree their many apprehensions. Still they could not refrain from
expressions of the strongest indignation at an act so unusual, so violent, and so entirely
at war with the established notions of chivalry at the time. As the reader will readily conjecture,
our good friend, Mrs. Temple, was by no means the most patient under the wrongs she had endured,
and resisting the kind attentions of those around her, she was vehement in her denunciations
of her captors, and in her apprehensions of a thousand imaginary dangers.

“Oh my God!” she cried, “I know that they intend to murder us. To think of leaving a quiet
home, and being exposed to such treatment as this. Oh, my precious husband, if he only knew
what a situation his poor Betsey was in at this moment; but never mind, as sure as I am a living
woman, he shall know it, and then we will see.”

“My dear Mrs. Temple,” said Mrs. Ballard, another of the captives, “do not give way to your
feelings thus. It is useless, and will only serve to irritate these men.”

“Men! they are not men!” returned the excited old lady, refusing to be comforted. “Men never
would have treated ladies so. They are base, cruel, inhuman wretches, and, as I said before,
if I live, to get to Jamestown, Colonel Temple shall know of it too—so he shall.”

“But reflect, my dear friend, that our present condition is not affected by this very natural
resolution which you have made, to inform your husband of your wrongs. But whatever may be
the object of these persons, I feel assured that they intend no personal injury to us.”

“No personal injury, forsooth; and have we not sustained it already. Look at my head-tire,
all done up nicely just before I left the hall, and now scarcely fit to be seen. And is it
nothing to be hauled all over the country with a party of ruffians, that I would be ashamed
to be caught in company with; and who knows what they intend?”

“I admit with you, my dear madam,” said Mrs. Ballard, “that such conduct is unmanly and inexcusable,
and I care not who hears me say so. But still,” she added in a low voice, “we have the authority
of scripture to make friends even of the mammon of unrighteousness.”

“Friends! I would die first. I who have been moving in the first circles, the wife of Colonel
Temple, who, if he had chosen, might have been the greatest in the land, to make friends with
a party of mean, sneaking, cowardly ruffians. Never—and I'll speak my mind freely too—they
shall see that I have a woman's tongue in my head and know how to resent these injuries. Oh,
for shame! and to wear swords too, which used to be the badge of gentlemen and cavaliers, who
would rather have died than wrong a poor, weak, defenceless woman—much less to rob and murder her.”

“Well, let us hope for the best, my friend,” said Mrs. Ballard; “God knows I feel as you do,
that we have been grossly wronged; but let us remember that we are in the hands of a just and
merciful Providence, who will do with us according to his holy will.”

“I only know that we are in the hands of a parcel of impious and merciless wretches,” cried
the old lady, who, as we have seen on a former occasion, derived but little comfort from the
consolations of religion in the hour of trial. “I hope I have as much religion as my fellows,
who pretend to so much more—but I should like to know what effect that would have on a band
of lawless cut-throats?”

“He has given us his holy promise,” said Virginia, in a solemn, yet hopeful voice of resignation,
“that though we walk through the valley and the shadow of death, he will be with us—his rod
and his staff will comfort us—yea, he prepareth a table for us in the presence of our enemies,
our cup runneth over.”

“Well, I reckon I know that as well as you, miss; but it seems there is but little chance of
having a table prepared for us here,” retorted her mother, whose fears and indignation had
whetted rather than allayed her appetite. “But I think it is very unseemly in a young girl
to be so calm under such circumstances. I know that when I was your age, the bare idea of submitting
to such an exposure as this would have shocked me out of my senses.”

Virginia could not help thinking, that considering the lapse of time since her mother was a
young girl, there had been marvellously little change wrought in her keen sensibility to exposure;
for she was already evidently “shocked out of her senses.” But she refrained from expressing
such a dangerous opinion, and replied, in a sad tone—

“And can you think, my dearest mother, that I do not feel in all its force our present awful
condition! But, alas! what can we do. As Mrs. Ballard truly says, our best course is to endeavour
to move the coarse sympathies of these rebels, and even if they should not relent, they will
at least render our condition less fearful by their forbearance and respect. Oh, my mother!
my only friend in this dark hour of peril and misfortune, think not so harshly of your daughter
as to suppose that she feels less acutely the horrors of her situation, because she fails to
express her fears.” And so saying, the poor girl drew yet closer to her mother, and wept upon
her bosom.

“I meant not to speak unkindly, dear Jeanie,” said the good-hearted old lady, “but you know,
my child, that when my fears get the better of me, I am not myself. It does seem to me, that
I was born under some unlucky star. Ever since I was born the world has been turning upside
down; and God knows, I don't know what I have done that it should be so. But first, that awful
revolution in England, and then, when we came here to pass our old days in peace and quiet,
this infamous rebellion. And yet I must say, I never knew any thing like this. There was at
least some show of religion among the old Roundheads, and though they were firm and demure
enough, and hated all kinds of amusement, and cruel enough too with all their psalm singing,
to cut off their poor king's head, yet they always treated women with respect and decency.
But, indeed, even the rebels of the present day are not what they used to be.”

Virginia could scarcely forbear smiling, amid her tears, at this new application of her mother's
favourite theory. The conversation was here interrupted by the approach of a young officer,
who, bowing respectfully to the bevy of captive ladies, said politely, that he was sorry to
intrude upon their presence, but that, as it was time to pursue their journey, he had come
to ask if the ladies would partake of some refreshment before their ride.

“If they could share the rough fare of a soldier, it would bestow a great favour and honour
upon him to attend to their wishes; and indeed, as it would be several hours before they could
reach Jamestown, they would stand in need of some refreshment, ere they arrived at more comfortable
quarters.”

“As your unhappy prisoners, sir,” said Mrs. Ballard, with great dignity, “we can scarcely object
to a soldier's fare. Prisoners have no choice but to take the food which the humanity of their
jailers sets before them. Your apology is therefore needless, if not insulting to our misfortunes.”

“Well, madam,” returned Wilford, in the same respectful tone, “I did not mean to offend you,
and regret that I have done so through mistaken kindness. May I add that, in common with the
rest of the army, I deplore the necessity which has compelled us to resort to such harsh means
towards yourselves, in order to ensure success and safety.”

“I deeply sympathize with you in your profound regret,” said Mrs. Ballard, ironically. “But
pray tell me, sir, if you learned this very novel and chivalric mode of warfare from the savages
with whom you have been contending, or is it the result of General Bacon's remarkable military
genius?”

“It is the result of the stern necessity under which we rest, of coping with a force far superior
to our own. And I trust that while your ladyships can suffer but little inconvenience from
our course, you will not regret your own cares, if thereby you might prevent an effusion of blood.”

“Oh, that is it,” replied Mrs. Ballard, in the same tone of withering irony. “I confess that
I was dull enough to believe that the self-constituted, self-styled champions of freedom had
courage enough to battle for the right, and not to screen themselves from danger, as a child
will seek protection behind its mother's apron, from the attack of an enraged cow.”

“Madam, I will not engage in an encounter of wits with you. I will do you but justice when
I say that few would come off victors in such a contest. But I have a message from one of our
officers to this young lady, I believe, which I was instructed to reserve for her private ear.”

“There is no need for a confidential communication,” said Virginia Temple, “as I have no secret
which I desire to conceal from my mother and these companions in misfortune. If, therefore,
you have aught to say to me, you may say it here, or else leave it unexpressed.”

“As you please, my fair young lady,” returned Wilford. “My message concerns you alone, but
if you do not care to conceal it from your companions, I will deliver it in their presence.
Major Thomas Hansford desires me to say, that if you would allow him the honour of an interview
of a few moments, he would gladly take the opportunity of explaining to you the painful circumstances
by which you are surrounded, in a manner which he trusts may meet with your approbation.”

“Say to Major Thomas Hansford,” replied Virginia, proudly, “that, as I am his captive, I cannot
prevent his intrusion into my presence. I cannot refuse to hear what he may have to speak.
But tell him, moreover, that no explanation can justify this last base act, and that no reparation
can erase it from my memory. Tell him that she who once honoured him, and loved him, as all
that was noble, and generous, and chivalric, now looks back upon the past as on a troubled
dream; and that, in future, if she should hear his name, she will remember him but as one who,
cast in a noble mould, might have been worthy of the highest admiration, but, defaced by an
indelible stain, is cast aside as worthy alike of her indignation and contempt.”

As the young girl uttered the last fatal words, she sank back into her grassy seat by her mother's
side, as though exhausted by the effort she had made. She had torn with violent resolution
from her breast the image which had so long been enshrined there—not only as a picture to be
loved, but as an idol to be worshipped—and though duty had nerved and sustained her in the
effort, nothing could assuage the anguish it inflicted. She did not love him then, but she
had loved him; and her heart, like the gloomy chamber where death has been, seemed more desolate
for the absence of that which, though hideous to gaze upon, was now gone forever.

Young Wilford was deeply impressed with the scene, and could not altogether conceal the emotion
which it excited. In a hurried and agitated voice he promised to deliver her message to Hansford,
and bowing again politely to the ladies, he slowly withdrew.

In a few moments one of the soldiers came with the expected refreshment, which certainly justified
the description which Wilford had given. It was both coarse and plain. Jerked venison, which
had evidently been the property of a stag with a dozen branches to his horns, and some dry
and moulding biscuit, completed the homely repast. Virginia, and most of her companions, declined
partaking of the unsavoury viands, but Mrs. Temple, though bitterly lamenting her hard fate,
in dooming her to such hard fare, worked vigorously away at the tough venison with her two
remaining molars—asserting the while, very positively, that no such venison as that existed
in her young days, though, to confess the truth, if we may judge from the evident age of the
deceased animal, it certainly did.

CHAPTER XXXV.

The daylight had entirely disappeared, and the broad disc of the full September moon was just
appearing above the eastern horizon, when Bacon and his followers resumed their march. Each
of the captive ladies was placed upon a horse, behind one of the officers, whose heavy riding
cloak was firmly girt to the horse's back, to provide a more comfortable seat. Thus advancing,
at a constant, but slow pace, to accommodate the wearied soldiers, they pursued their onward
course toward Jamestown. It was Bacon's object to arrive before the town as early as possible
in the night, so as to secure the completion of their intrenchments and breastworks before
the morning, when he intended to commence the siege. And now, as they are lighted on their
way by the soft rays of the autumnal moon, let us hear the conversation which was passing between
one of the cavaliers and his fair companion, as they rode slowly along at some distance from
the rest.

We may well suppose that Thomas Hansford, forced thus reluctantly to engage in a policy from
which his very soul revolted, would not commit the charge of Virginia's person to another.
She, at least, should learn, that though so brutally impressed into the service of the rebel
army, there was an arm there to shield her from danger and protect her from rudeness or abuse.
She, at least, should learn that there was one heart there, however despised and spurned by
others, which beat in its every throb for her safety and happiness.

Riding, as we have said, a little slower than the rest, so as to be a little out of hearing,
he said, in a low voice, tremulous with half suppressed emotion, “Miss Temple cannot be ignorant
of who her companion is?”

“Your voice assures me,” replied Virginia, “that my conjecture is right, and that I am in the
presence of one who was once an honoured friend. But had your voice and form changed as entirely
as your heart, I could never have recognized in the rebel who scruples not to insult a defenceless
woman, the once gallant and chivalrous Hansford.”

“And do you, can you believe that my heart has indeed so thoroughly changed?”

“I would fain believe so, else I am forced to the conclusion that I have, all my life, been
deceived in a character which I deemed worthy of my love, while it was only the more black
because it was hypocritical.”

“Virginia,” said Hansford, with desperation, “you shall not talk thus; you shall not think
thus of me.”

“As my captor and jailer,” returned the brave hearted young maiden, “Mr. Hansford may, probably,
by force, control the expression of my opinions—but thank God! not even you can control my
thoughts. The mind, at least, is free, though the body be enslaved.”

“Nay, do not mistake my meaning, dear Virginia,” said her lover. “But alas! I am the victim
of misconstruction. Could you, for a moment, believe that I was capable of an act which you
have justly described as unmanly and unchivalrous?”

“What other opinion can I have?” said Virginia. “I find you acting with those who are guilty
of an act as cowardly as it is cruel. I find you tacitly acquiescing in their measures, and
aiding in guarding and conducting their unhappy captives—and I received from you a message
in which you pretend to say that you can justify that which is at once inexcusable before heaven,
and in the court of man's honour. Forgive me, if I am unable to separate the innocent from
the guilty, and if I fail to see that your conduct is more noble in this attempt to shift the
consequences of your crime upon your confederates.”

“Now, by Heaven, you wrong me!” returned Hansford. “My message to you was mistaken by Captain
Wilford. I never said I could justify your capture; I charged him to tell you I could justify
myself. And as for my being found with those who have committed this unmanly act, as well might
you be deemed a participator in their actions now, because of your presence here. I remonstrated,
I protested against such a course—and when at last adopted I denounced it as unworthy of men,
and far more unworthy of soldiers and freemen.”

“And yet, when overwhelmed by the voices of others, you quietly acquiesce, and remain in companionship
with those whose conduct you had denounced.”

“What else could I do?” urged Hansford. “My feeble arm could not resist the action of two hundred-men;
and it only remained for me to continue here, that I might secure the safety and kind treatment
of those who were the victims of this rude violence. Alas! how little did I think that so soon
you would be one of those unhappy victims, and that my heart would deplore, for its own sake,
a course from which my judgment and better nature already revolted.”

The scales fell from Virginia's eyes. She now saw clearly the bitter trial through which her
lover had been called to pass, and recognized once more the generous, self-denying nature of
Hansford. The stain upon his pure fame, to use her own figure, was but the effect of the false
and deceptive lens through which she had looked, and now that she saw clearly, it was restored
to its original purity and beauty.

“And is this true, indeed?” she said, in a happy voice. “Believe me, Hansford, the relief which
I feel at this moment more than compensates for all that I have endured. The renewed assurance
of your honour atones for all. Can you forgive me for harbouring for a moment a suspicion that
you were aught but the soul of honour?”

“Forgive you, dearest?” returned Hansford. “Most freely—most fully! But scarcely can I forgive
those who have so wronged you. Cast in a common lot with them, and struggling for a common
cause, I cannot now withdraw from their association; and indeed, Virginia, I will be candid,
and tell you freely that I would not if I could.”

“Alas!” said Virginia, “and what can be the result of your efforts. Sooner or later aid must
come from England, and crush a rebellion whose success has only been ephemeral. And what else
can be expected or desired, since we have already seen how lost to honour are those by whom
it is attempted. Would you wish, if you could, to subject your country to the sway of men,
who, impelled only by their own reckless passions, disregard alike the honour due from man
and the respect due to woman?”

