"Mr. Butler was an ambitious young lawyer, shrewd and full of bold schemes for enriching himself.
When the war with the South broke out, he raised all the money he could and fitted out a fleet
of privateers. With this he sailed for New Orleans, captured the city, and, collecting all
the silver spoons it contained, freighted his vessels with them, and returned to the North.
Thus he laid the foundation for his great fortune, but achieved lasting unpopularity in the
South, which will prevent his election to the Presidency."

I am not joking. That was how the story of the silver spoons looked in Danish a quarter of
a century after the war. Really, now, what would you have done? I laughed and--well! made remarks
by turns, and in the end concluded that there was nothing else that could be done except buckle
to and try again; which I did.

If I could not go to the war, I could at least go electioneering with Roosevelt when he came
back and try to help him out the best I knew how in matters that touched the poor and their
life, once he sat in Cleveland's chair in Albany. I do not think he felt that as an added dignity,
but I did and I told him so, whereat he used to laugh a little.  But there was nothing to laugh
at. They are men of the same stamp, not saints any more than the rest of us, but men with minds
and honest wills, if they have different ways of doing things. I wish some Cleveland would
come along again soon and give me another chance to vote the ticket which Tammany obstructs
with its impudent claim that it is the Democratic party. As for Roosevelt, few were nearer
to him, I fancy, than I, even at Albany. No doubt he made his mistakes like the rest of us,
and when he did there were not wanting critics to make the most of it. I wish they had been
half as ready to lend him a hand. We might have been farther on the road then. I saw how faithfully
he labored.  I was his umpire with the tailors, with the drug clerks, in the enforcement of
the Factory Law against sweaters, and I know that early and late he had no other thought than
how best to serve the people who trusted him. I want no better Governor than that, and I guess
we shall want him a long time before we get one as good.

I found out upon our electioneering tours that I was not a good stump-speaker, especially on
the wing with five-minute stops of the train. It used to pull out with me inwardly raging,
all the good things I meant to say unsaid. The politicians knew that trick better, and I left
the field to them speedily.  Thereafter I went along just for company.  Only two or three times
did I rise to the occasion.  Once when I spoke in the square at Jamestown, N.Y., where I had
worked as a young lad and trapped muskrats in the creek for a living. The old days came back
to me as I looked upon that mighty throng, and the cheers that arose from it told me that I
had "caught on." I was wondering whether by any chance the old ship captain who finished me
as a lecturer once was in it, but he was not; he was dead. Another time was in Flushing, Long
Island. There was not room in the hall, and they sent me out to talk to the crowd in the street.
The sight of it, with the flickering torchlight upon the sea of upturned faces, took me somehow
as nothing ever had, and the speech I made from the steps, propped up by two policemen, took
the crowd, too; it cheered so that Roosevelt within stopped and thought some enemy had captured
the meeting. When he was gone, with the spirit still upon me I talked to the meeting in the
hall till it rose and shouted. My political pet enemy from Richmond Hill was on the platform
and came over to embrace me. We have been friends since. The memory of that evening lingers
yet in Flushing, I am told.

A picture from that day's trip through Long Island will ever abide on my mind. The train was
about to pull out from the station in Greenport, when the public school children came swarming
down to see "Teddy." He leaned out from the rear platform, grasping as many of the little hands
as he could, while the train hands did their best to keep the track clear. Way back in the
jostling, cheering crowd I made out the slim figure of a pale, freckled little girl in a worn
garment, struggling eagerly but hopelessly to get near him. The stronger children pushed her
farther back, and her mournful face was nearly the last of them all when Roosevelt saw her.
Going down the steps even as the train started, he made a quick dash, clearing a path through
the surging tide to the little girl, and taking her hand, gave it the heartiest shake of all,
then sprinted for the departing car and caught it.  The last I saw of Greenport was the poor
little girl holding tight the hand her hero had shaken, with her face all one sunbeam of joy.

I know just how she felt, for I have had the same experience. One of the things I remember
with a pleasure which the years have no power to dim is my meeting with Cardinal Gibbons some
years ago. They had asked me to come to Baltimore to speak for the Fresh Air Fund, and to my
great delight I found that the Cardinal was to preside. I had always admired him at a distance,
but during the fifteen minutes' talk we had before the lecture he won my heart entirely. He
asked me to forgive him if he had to go away before I finished my speech, for he had had a
very exhausting service the day before, "and I am an old man, on the sunny side of sixty,"
he added as if in apology.

"On the shady side, you mean," amended the Presbyterian clergyman who was on the committee.
The Cardinal shook his head, smiling.

"No, doctor! The sunny side--nearer heaven."

The meeting was of a kind to inspire even the dullest speaker. When I finished my plea for
the children and turned around, there sat the Cardinal yet behind me, though it was an hour
past his bedtime.  He came forward and gave me his blessing then and there. I was never so
much touched and moved. Even my mother, stanch old Lutheran that she is, was satisfied when
I told her of it, though, in the nature of things, the idea of her son consorting in that way
with principalities and powers in the enemy's camp must have been a shock to her.

Speaking of which, reminds me of the one brief glimpse into the mysteries of the universe I
had while in Galesburg, Ill., the same year. I had been lecturing at Knox College, of which
my friend John Finley was the President. It rained before the meeting, but when we came out,
the stars shone brightly, and I was fired with a sudden desire to see them through the observatory
telescope. The professor of astronomy took me into the dark dome and pointed the glass at Saturn,
which I knew as a scintillating point of light, said to be a big round ball like our earth,
and had taken on trust as a matter of course. But to see it hanging there, white and big as
an apple, suspended within its broad and shining ring, was a revelation before which I stood
awe-stricken and dumb. I gazed and gazed; between the star and its ring I caught the infinite
depth of black space beyond; I seemed to see almost the whirl, the motion; to hear the morning
stars sing together--and then like a flash it was gone. Crane my neck on my ladder as I might
I could not get sight of it.

"But where did she go?" I said, half to myself.  Far down in the darkness came the old professor's
deep voice:--

"That time you saw the earth move."

And so I did. The clockwork that made the dome keep up with the motion of the stars--of our
world rather--had run down, and when Saturn passed out of my sight, as I thought, it was the
earth instead which I literally saw move.

And now that I am on my travels let me cross the ocean long enough to say that my digging among
the London slums one summer only served to convince me that their problem is the same as ours,
and is to be solved along the same lines. They have their ways, and we have ours, and each
has something to learn from the other. We copied our law that enabled us to tear down slum
tenements from the English statute under which they cleared large areas over yonder long before
we got to work.  And yet in their poor streets--in "Christian Street" of all places--I found
families living in apartments entirely below the sidewalk grade. I found children poisoned
by factory fumes in a charitable fold, and people huddled in sleeping-rooms as I had never
seen it in New York. And when I asked why the police did not interfere, they looked at me,
uncomprehending, and retorted that they were on their own premises--the factory, too--and where
did the police come in? I told them that in New York they came in when and where they saw fit,
and systematically in the middle of the night so that they might get at the exact facts. As
for our cave-dwellers, we had got rid of them a long time since by the simple process of dragging
out those who wouldn't go and shutting the cellar doors against them. It had to be done and
it was done, and it settled the matter.

"I thought yours was a free country," said my policeman conductor.

"So it is," I told him, "freedom to poison yourself and your neighbor excepted." He shook his
head, and we went on.

But these were mere divergences of practice.  The principle is not affected. It was clear enough
that in London, as in New York, it was less a question of transforming human nature in the
tenant than of reforming it in the landlord; At St. Giles I found side by side with the work-house
a church, a big bath and wash-house, and a school. It was the same at Seven Dials. At every
step it recalled the Five Points. To the one as to the other, steeped in poverty and crime,
had come the road-builder, the missionary, the school-teacher, and let light in together. And
in their track was following, rather faster there than here as yet, the housing reformer with
his atoning scheme of philanthropy and five per cent. That holds the key. In the last analysis
it is a question of how we rate the brotherhood, what per cent we will take. My neighbor at
table in my London boarding-house meant that, though he put it in a way all his own. He was
a benevolent enough crank, but no friend of preaching. Being a crank, he condemned preachers
with one fell swoop:--

"The parsons!" he said; "my 'evings, what hare they? In hall me life hi've known only two that
were fit to be in the pulpit."

Returning to my own country, I found the conviction deepening wherever the slum had got a grip,
that it was the problem not only of government but of humanity. In Chicago they are setting
limits to it with parks and playgrounds and the home restored. In Cincinnati, in Cleveland,
in Boston, they are bestirring themselves. Indeed, in Boston they have torn down more foul
tenements than did we in the metropolis, and with less surrender to the slum landlord. In New
York a citizens' movement paved the way for the last Tenement-House Commission, which has just
finished its great work, and the movement is warrant that the fruits of that work will not
be lost. Listen to the arraignment of the tenement by that Commission, appointed by the State:--

"All the conditions which surround childhood, youth, and womanhood in New York's crowded tenement
quarters make for unrighteousness. They also make for disease. ... From the tenements there
comes a stream of sick, helpless people to our hospitals and dispensaries... from them also
comes a host of paupers and charity seekers. Most terrible of all... the fact that, mingled
with the drunken, the dissolute, the improvident, the diseased, dwell the great mass of the
respectable workingmen of the city with their families."

This after all the work of twenty years! Yet the work was not wasted, for at last we see the
truth. Seeing, it is impossible that the monstrous wrong should go unrighted and government
of the people endure, as endure it will, I know. We have only begun to find out what it can
do for mankind in the day when we shall all think enough about the common good, the res publica,
to forget about ourselves.

In that day, too, the boss shall have ceased from troubling. However gross he wax in our sight,
he has no real substance. He is but an ugly dream of political distemper. Sometimes when I
hear him spoken of with bated breath, I think of the Irish teamster who went to the priest
in a fright; he had seen a ghost on the church wall as he passed it in the night.

"And what was it like?" asked the priest.

"It was like nothing so much as a big ass," said Patrick, wide-eyed.

"Go home, Pat! and be easy. You've seen your own shadow."

But I am tired now and want to go home to mother and rest awhile.

CHAPTER XV

WHEN I WENT HOME TO MOTHER

There was a heavy step on the stairs, a rap that sounded much as if an elephant had knocked
against the jamb in passing, and there in the door stood a six-foot giant, calmly surveying
me, as if I were a specimen bug stuck on a pin for inspection, instead of an ordinary man-person
with no more than two legs.

"Well?" I said, groping helplessly among the memories of the past for a clew to the apparition.
Somewhere and sometime I had seen it before; that much I knew and no more.

The shape took a step into the room. "I am Jess," it said simply, "Jess Jepsen from Lustrup."

"Lustrup!" I pushed back papers and pen and strode toward the giant to pull him up to the light.
Lustrup! Talk about seven league boots! that stride of mine was four thousand miles long, if
it was a foot. It spanned the stormy Atlantic and the cold North Sea and set me down in sight
of the little village of straw-thatched farm-houses where I played in the long ago, right by
the dam in the lazy brook where buttercups and forget-me-nots nodded ever over the pool, and
the pewit built its nest in spring. Just beyond, the brook issued forth from the meadows to
make a detour around the sunken walls of the old manse and lose itself in the moor that stretched
toward the western hills.  Lustrup! Oh, yes! I pushed my giant into a chair so that I might
have a look at him.

He was just like the landscape of his native plain; big and calm and honest. Nothing there
to hide; couldn't if it tried. And, like his village, he smelled of the barn-yard. He was a
driver, he told me, earning wages. But he had his evenings to himself; and so he had come to
find, through me, a school where he might go and learn English.  Just so! It was Lustrup all
over. I remembered as though it were yesterday the time I went up to have a look at the dam
I hadn't seen for thirty years, and the sun-fish and the pewit so anxiously solicitous for
her young, and found the brook turned aside and the western earth-wall of the manse, which
it skirted, all gone; and the story the big farmer, Jess Jepsen's father, told me with such
quiet pride, standing there, of how because of trouble made by the Germans at the "line" a
mile away the cattle business had run down and down until the farm didn't pay; how he and "the
boy" unaided, working patiently year by year with spade and shovel, had dug down the nine acres
of dry upland, moved the wall into the bottoms and turned the brook, making green meadow of
the sandy barren, and saving the farm. The toil of twenty years had broken the old man's body,
but his spirit was undaunted as ever. There was a gleam of triumph in his eye as he shook his
fist at the "line" post on the causeway. "We beat them," he said; "we did."

They did. I had heard it told many times how this brave little people, driven out of the German
market, had conquered the English and held it against the world, three times in one man's lifetime
making a new front to changed industrial conditions; turning from grain-raising to cattle on
the hoof, again to slaughtered meat, and once more to dairy-farming, and holding always their
own.  How, robbed of one-third of their country by a faithless foe, they had set about with
indomitable energy to reclaim the arid moor, and in one generation laid under the plough or
planted as woodland as great an area as that which had been stolen from them. Ay, it was a
brave record, a story to make one proud of being of such a people. I, too, heard the pewit's
plaint in my childhood and caught the sun-fish in the brook. I was a boy when they planted
the black post at the line and watered it with the blood of my countrymen. Gray-haired and
with old-time roots in a foreign soil, I dream with them yet of the day that shall see it pulled
up and hurled over the river where my fathers beat back the southern tide a thousand years.

Jess? He went away satisfied. He will be there, when needed. His calm eyes warranted that.
And I--I went back to the old home, to Denmark and to my mother; because I just couldn't stay
away any longer.

We had wandered through Holland, counting the windmills, studying the "explications" set forth
in painfully elaborate English on its old church walls with the information for travellers
that further particulars were to be obtained of the sexton, who might be found with the key
"in the neighborhood No. 5." We had argued with the keeper of the Prinzenhof in Delft that
William the Silent could not possibly have been murdered as he said he was--that he must have
come down the stairs and not gone across the hall when the assassin shot him, as any New York
police reporter could tell from the bullet-hole that is yet in the wall--and thereby wounding
his patriotic pride so deeply that an extra fee was required to soothe it. I caught him looking
after us as we went down the street and shaking his head at those "wild Americans" who accounted
nothing holy, not even the official record of murder done while their ancestors were yet savages
roaming the plains. We had laughed at the coal-heavers on the frontier carrying coal in baskets
up a ladder to the waiting engine and emptying it into the fender. And now, after parting company
with my fellow-traveller at Hamburg, I was nearing the land where once more I should see old
Dannebrog, the flag that fell from heaven with victory to the hard-pressed Danes. Literally
out of the sky it fell in their sight, the historic fact being apparently that the Christian
bishops had put up a job with the Pope to wean the newly converted Danes away from their heathen
pirate flag and found their opportunity in one of the crusades the Danes undertook on their
own hook into what is now Prussia. The Pope had sent a silken banner with the device of a white
cross in red, and at the right moment, when the other was taken, the priest threw it down from
a cliff into the thick of the battle and turned its tide. Ever after, it was the flag of the
Danes, and their German foes had reason to hate it. Here in Slesvig, through which I was travelling,
to display it was good cause for banishment.  But over yonder, behind the black post, it was
waiting, and my heart leaped to meet it. Have I not felt the thrill, when wandering abroad,
at the sight of the stars and stripes suddenly unfolding, the flag of my home, of my manhood's
years and of my pride? Happy he who has a flag to love.  Twice blest he who has two, and such two.

