And the people, when the trumpets made it known that there was no crown and declared the word
of Really-Is, with one voice cried loudly: "Really-Is is King! Really-Is needs no Crown! Long
live Really-Is, our King!"

Thus the True King ascended the throne of Allthetime, and the trumpeters trumpeted loudly many
times: "Long live the king who needs no crown!" and with a great shout the people answered
again many times: "Long live our Uncrowned King! Long live our Uncrowned King!"

"And this, O Hadji," said the glad Voice of the New Day, "is how it came to be that in the
days that now are, there is, in this Royal City Daybyday, in the wonderful Land of Allthetime,
no crown."

And this also you must know, that in the reign of Really-Is the people of Daybyday have more
and more turned from their many gods to worship only the god of their King, until there is
left now of the many deserted temples only ruins, and of the many gods of the many people of
many races, languages and names only one, the god of Really-Is, Things-That-Ought-To-Be. The
mighty Wall that was built, they thought, on the foundations of the world, when there was no
longer a crown to keep, of its own great weight fell. And the Royal City Daybyday, in the reign
of Really-Is, is extending its borders more and more, until there are those who think that
with the City Sometime it will soon be one, and then they say that the promises made by Really-Is
and the Princess of Yettocome will be fulfilled and that the glory and splendor of their reign
will fill the world.

"But of that, O Hadji," said the glad Voice of the New Day, "I cannot tell you now. I have
finished The Tale of The Uncrowned King."

The Voice that was in the Morning ceased. The Quiet Room was filled with light. Quickly the
Pilgrim arose and going to the window saw in all its glory the New Day.

Every leaf of the tall trees, every blade and every inwoven flower in the velvet carpet of
green, wore beads of shining crystal that sparkled and glittered in radiant splendor. Every
tiny ripple that ran on the Beautiful Sea was a line of silver flame. And in the overhead ocean
of pearly light, floated glowing banks of orange, and scarlet and gold, while, to the Pilgrim,
bird and tree and plant and flower and wave and cloud seemed to join in one glad triumphant
shout: "Long live Really-Is! Long live The Uncrowned King!"

Then the Pilgrim who had paid The Price, who had fulfilled The Law of the Pilgrimage, who had
asked of Thyself, the Keeper of the Temple of Truth, "Why," went to lay his offering on the
altar to the god That-Never-Can Change.

And his offering was Himself.

THE END

       *       *       *       *       *

THAT PRINTER OF UDELL'S

"Altogether an estimable story."--New York Sun.

"Done to the life."--Chicago Tribune.

"Well written and decidedly interesting."--New York Times.

"A thoroughly good novel."--Boston Globe.

"Wrings tears and laughter."--Record-Herald, Chicago.

"Absorbing, thoughtful novel."--Kansas City Journal.

"Full of movement and passion."--Standard, Chicago.

"It is human to the very core."--Nashville American.

"Excellent character creation."--St. Louis Republic.

"Wholesome and strengthening."--Albany Press.

"Rich in humor and good sense."--Philadelphia Telegraph.

"Full of thrilling interest and moral heroism."--Pittsburg Dispatch.

"Many well drawn characters."--Washington Post.

"Has not a peer in English fiction."--Providence Telegram.

"It is strong and wholesome."--Chicago Post.

"Not a chapter that is not interesting."--St. Paul News.

"Is a fascinating story."--Portland Telegram.

"It should be read to be understood."--Grand Rapids Herald.

"The reader's interest is stirred to its very depths."--Omaha World-Herald.

"Many strong situations and some delicate ones."--San Francisco Chronicle.

"The Ralph Connor of Kansas."--Brooklyn Eagle.

