A more unalloyed friendship was that with the amiable Gisborne family, settled at Leghorn;
its serene cheerfulness is reflected in Shelley's charming rhymed 'Letter to Maria Gisborne'.
And early in 1821 they were joined by a young couple who proved very congenial. Ned Williams
was a half-pay lieutenant of dragoons, with literary and artistic tastes, and his wife, Jane,
had a sweet, engaging manner, and a good singing voice. Then there was the exciting discovery
of the Countess Emilia Viviani, imprisoned in a convent by a jealous step-mother. All three
of them--Mary, Claire, and Shelley--at once fell in love with the dusky beauty. Impassioned
letters passed between her and Shelley, in which he was her "dear brother" and she his "dearest
sister"; but she was soon found to be a very ordinary creature, and is only remembered as the
instrument chosen by chance to inspire 'Epipsychidion'. Finally there appeared, in January
1822, the truest-hearted and the most lovable of all Shelley's friends. Edward John Trelawny,
a cadet of a Cornish family, "with his knight-errant aspect, dark, handsome, and moustachioed,"
was the true buccaneer of romance, but of honest English grain, and without a trace of pose.
The devotion with which, though he only knew Shelley for a few months, he fed in memory on
their friendship to the last day of his life, brings home to us, as nothing else can, the force
of Shelley's personal attraction; for this man lived until 1881, an almost solitary survivor
from the Byronic age, and his life contained matter enough to swamp recollection of half-a-dozen
poets. It seems that, after serving in the navy and deserting from an East Indiaman at Bombay,
he passed, in the Eastern Archipelago, through the incredible experiences narrated in his 'Adventures
of a Younger Son'; and all this before he was twenty-one, for in 1813 he was in England and
married. Then he disappeared, bored by civilisation; nothing is known of him until 1820, when
he turns up in Switzerland in pursuit of sport and adventure. After Shelley's death he went
to Greece with Byron, joined the rebel chief Odysseus, married his sister Tersitza, and was
nearly killed in defending a cave on Mount Parnassus. Through the subsequent years, which included
wanderings in America, and a narrow escape from drowning in trying to swim Niagara, he kept
pressing Shelley's widow to marry him. Perhaps because he was piqued by Mary's refusal, he
has left a rather unflattering portrait of her. He was indignant at her desire to suppress
parts of 'Queen Mab'; but he might have admired the honesty with which she retained 'Epipsychidion',
although that poem describes her as a "cold chaste moon." The old sea-captain in Sir John Millais'
picture, "The North-West Passage," now in the Tate Gallery in London, is a portrait of Trelawny
in old age.

To return to the Shelleys. It was decided that the summer of 1822 should be spent with the
Williamses, and after some search a house just capable of holding both families was found near
Lerici, on the east side of the Bay of Spezzia. It was a lonely, wind-swept place, with its
feet in the waves. The natives were half-savage; there was no furniture, and no facility for
getting provisions. The omens opened badly. At the moment of moving in, news of Allegra's death
came; Shelley was shaken and saw visions, and Mary disliked the place at first sight. Still,
there was the sea washing their terrace, and Shelley loved the sea (there is scarcely one of
his poems in which a boat does not figure, though it is usually made of moonstone); and, while
Williams fancied himself as a navigator, Trelawny was really at home on the water. A certain
Captain Roberts was commissioned to get a boat built at Genoa, where Byron also was fitting
out a yacht, the 'Bolivar'. When the 'Ariel'--for so they called her--arrived, the friends
were delighted with her speed and handiness. She was a thirty-footer, without a deck, ketch-rigged.
(1) Shelley's health was good, and this June, passed in bathing, sailing, reading, and hearing
Jane sing simple melodies to her guitar in the moonlight, was a gleam of happiness before the
end. It was not so happy for Mary, who was ill and oppressed with housekeeping for two families,
and over whose relations with Shelley a film of querulous jealousy had crept.

      (1 Professor Dowden, 'Life of Shelley', vol. ii., p. 501,
     says "schooner-rigged."  This is a landsman's mistake.)

Leigh Hunt, that amiable, shiftless, Radical man of letters, was coming out from England with
his wife; on July 1st Shelley and Williams sailed in the 'Ariel' to Leghorn to meet them, and
settle them into the ground-floor of Byron's palace at Pisa. His business despatched, Shelley
returned from Pisa to Leghorn, with Hunt's copy of Keats's 'Hyperion' in his pocket to read
on the voyage home. Though the weather looked threatening, he put to sea again on July 8th,
with Williams and an English sailor-boy. Trelawny wanted to convoy them in Byron's yacht, but
was turned back by the authorities because he had no port-clearance. The air was sultry and
still, with a storm brewing, and he went down to his cabin and slept. When he awoke, it was
to see fishing-boats running into harbour under bare poles amid the hubbub of a thunder-squall.
In that squall the 'Ariel' disappeared. It is doubtful whether the unseaworthy craft was merely
swamped, or whether, as there is some reason to suppose, an Italian felucca ran her down with
intent to rob the Englishmen. In any case, the calamity is the crowning example of that combination
of bad management and bad luck which dogged Shelley all his life. It was madness to trust an
open boat, manned only by the inexperienced Williams and a boy (for Shelley was worse than
useless), to the chances of a Mediterranean storm. And destiny turns on trifles; if the 'Bolivar'
had been allowed to sail, Trelawny might have saved them.

He sent out search-parties, and on July 19th sealed the despairing women's certainty of disaster
by the news that the bodies had been washed ashore. Shelley's was identified by a copy of Sophocles
in one coat-pocket and the Keats in another. What Trelawny then did was an action of that perfect
fitness to which only the rarest natures are prompted: he charged himself with the business
of burning the bodies. This required some organisation. There were official formalities to
fulfil, and the materials had to be assembled--the fuel, the improvised furnace, the iron bars,
salt and wine and oil to pour upon the pyre. In his artless 'Records' he describes the last
scene on the seashore. Shelley's body was given to the flames on a day of intense heat, when
the islands lay hazy along the horizon, and in the background the marble-flecked Apennines
gleamed. Byron looked on until he could stand it no longer, and swam off to his yacht. The
heart was the last part to be consumed. By Trelawny's care the ashes were buried in the Protestant
cemetery at Rome.

It is often sought to deepen our sense of this tragedy by speculating on what Shelley would
have done if he had lived. But, if such a question must be asked, there are reasons for thinking
that he might not have added much to his reputation. It may indeed be an accident that his
last two years were less fertile in first-rate work than the years 1819 and 1820, and that
his last unfinished poem, 'The Triumph of Life', is even more incoherent than its predecessors;
yet, when we consider the nature of his talent, the fact is perhaps significant. His song was
entirely an affair of uncontrolled afflatus, and this is a force which dwindles in middle life,
leaving stranded the poet who has no other resource. Some men suffer spiritual upheavals and
eclipses, in which they lose their old selves and emerge with new and different powers; but
we may be fairly sure that this would not have happened to Shelley, that as he grew older he
would always have returned to much the same impressions; for his mind, of one piece through
and through, had that peculiar rigidity which can sometimes be observed in violently unstable
characters. The colour of his emotion would have fluctuated--it took on, as it was, a deepening
shade of melancholy; but there is no indication that the material on which it worked would
have changed.

Chapter II. Principal Writings

The true visionary is often a man of action, and Shelley was a very peculiar combination of
the two. He was a dreamer, but he never dreamed merely for the sake of dreaming; he always
rushed to translate his dreams into acts. The practical side of him was so strong that he might
have been a great statesman or reformer, had not his imagination, stimulated by a torrential
fluency of language, overborne his will. He was like a boat (the comparison would have pleased
him) built for strength and speed, but immensely oversparred. His life was a scene of incessant
bustle. Glancing through his poems, letters, diaries, and pamphlets, his translations from
Greek, Spanish, German, and Italian, and remembering that he died at thirty, and was, besides,
feverishly active in a multitude of affairs, we fancy that his pen can scarcely ever have been
out of his hand. And not only was he perpetually writing; he read gluttonously. He would thread
the London traffic, nourishing his unworldly mind from an open book held in one hand, and his
ascetic body from a hunch of bread held in the other. This fury for literature seized him early.
But the quality of his early work was astonishingly bad. An author while still a schoolboy,
he published in 1810 a novel, written for the most part when he was seventeen years old, called
'Zastrozzi', the mere title of which, with its romantic profusion of sibilants, is eloquent
of its nature. This was soon followed by another like it, 'St. Irvyne, or the Rosicrucian'.
Whether they are adaptations from the German (2) or not, these books are merely bad imitations
of the bad school then in vogue, the flesh-creeping school of skeletons and clanking chains,
of convulsions and ecstasies, which Miss Austen, though no one knew it, had killed with laughter
years before. (3) "Verezzi scarcely now shuddered when the slimy lizard crossed his naked and
motionless limbs. The large earthworms, which twined themselves in his long and matted hair,
almost ceased to excite sensations of horror"--that is the kind of stuff in which the imagination
of the young Shelley rioted. And evidently it is not consciously imagined; life really presented
itself to him as a romance of this kind, with himself as hero--a hero who is a hopeless lover,
blighted by premature decay, or a wanderer doomed to share the sins and sorrows of mankind
to all eternity. This attitude found vent in a mass of sentimental verse and prose, much of
it more or less surreptitiously published, which the researches of specialists have brought
to light, and which need not be dwelt upon here.

     (2 So Mr. H. B. Forman suggests in the introduction to his
     edition of Shelley's Prose Works.  But Hogg says that he did
     not begin learning German until 1815.)

     (3 'Northanger Abbey', satirising Mrs. Radcliffe's novels,
     was written before 1798, but was not published until 1818.)

But very soon another influence began to mingle with this feebly extravagant vein, an influence
which purified and strengthened, though it never quite obliterated it. At school he absorbed,
along with the official tincture of classical education, a violent private dose of the philosophy
of the French Revolution; he discovered that all that was needed to abolish all the evil done
under the sun was to destroy bigotry, intolerance, and persecution as represented by religious
and monarchical institutions. At first this influence combined with his misguided literary
passions only to heighten the whole absurdity, as when he exclaims, in a letter about his first
disappointed love, "I swear, and as I break my oaths, may Infinity, Eternity, blast me--never
will I forgive Intolerance!" The character of the romance is changed indeed; it has become
an epic of human regeneration, and its emotions are dedicated to the service of mankind; but
still it is a romance. The results, however, are momentous; for the hero, being a man of action,
is no longer content to write and pay for the printing: in his capacity of liberator he has
to step into the arena, and, above all, he has to think out a philosophy.

An early manifestation of this impulse was the Irish enterprise already mentioned. Public affairs
always stirred him, but, as time went on, it was more and more to verse and less to practical
intervention, and after 1817 he abandoned argument altogether for song. But one pamphlet, 'A
Proposal for putting Reform to the Vote' (1817), is characteristic of the way in which he was
always labouring to do something, not merely to ventilate existing evils, but to promote some
practical scheme for abolishing them. Let a national referendum, he says, be held on the question
of reform, and let it be agreed that the result shall be binding on Parliament; he himself
will contribute 100 pounds a year (one-tenth of his income) to the expenses of organisation.
He is in favour of annual Parliaments. Though a believer in universal suffrage, he prefers
to advance by degrees; it would not do to abolish aristocracy and monarchy at one stroke, and
to put power into the hands of men rendered brutal and torpid by ages of slavery; and he proposes
that the payment of a small sum in direct taxes should be the qualification for the parliamentary
franchise. The idea, of course, was not in the sphere of practical politics at the time, but
its sobriety shows how far Shelley was from being a vulgar theory-ridden crank to whom the
years bring no wisdom.

Meanwhile it had been revealed to him that "intolerance" was the cause of all evil, and, in
the same flash, that it could be destroyed by clear and simple reasoning. Apply the acid of
enlightened argument, and religious beliefs will melt away, and with them the whole rotten
fabric which they support--crowns and churches, lust and cruelty, war and crime, the inequality
of women to men, and the inequality of one man to another. With Shelley, to embrace the dazzling
vision was to act upon it at once. The first thing, since religion is at the bottom of all
force and fraud, was to proclaim that there is no reason for believing in Christianity. This
was easy enough, and a number of impatient argumentative pamphlets were dashed off. One of
these, 'The Necessity of Atheism', caused, as we saw, a revolution in his life. But, while
Christian dogma was the heart of the enemy's position, there were out-works which might also
be usefully attacked:--there were alcohol and meat, the causes of all disease and devastating
passion; there were despotism and plutocracy, based on commercial greed; and there was marriage,
which irrationally tyrannising over sexual relations, produces unnatural celibacy and prostitution.
These threads, and many others, were all taken up in his first serious poem, 'Queen Mab' (1812-13),
an over-long rhapsody, partly in blank verse, partly in loose metres. The spirit of Ianthe
is rapt by the Fairy Mab in her pellucid car to the confines of the universe, where the past,
present, and future of the earth are unfolded to the spirit's gaze. We see tyrants writhing
upon their thrones; Ahasuerus, "the wandering Jew," is introduced; the consummation on earth
of the age of reason is described.

Though many poets have begun their careers with something better than this, 'Queen Mab' will
always be read, because it gives us, in embryo, the whole of Shelley at a stroke. The melody
of the verse is thin and loose, but it soars from the ground and spins itself into a series
of etherial visions. And these visions, though they look utterly disconnected from reality,
are in fact only an aspect of his passionate interest in science. In this respect the sole
difference between 'Queen Mab' and such poems as 'The West Wind' and 'The Cloud' is that, in
the prose of the notes appended to 'Queen Mab', with their disquisitions on physiology and
astronomy, determinism and utilitarianism, the scientific skeleton is explicit. These notes
are a queer medley. We may laugh at their crudity--their certainty that, once orthodoxy has
been destroyed by argument, the millennium will begin; what is more to the purpose is to recognise
that here is something more than the ordinary dogmatism of youthful ignorance. There is a flow
of vigorous language, vividness of imagination, and, above all, much conscientious reasoning
and a passion for hard facts. His wife was not far wrong when she praised him for a "logical
exactness of reason." The arguments he uses are, indeed, all second-hand, and mostly fallacious;
but he knew instinctively something which is for ever hidden from the mass of mankind--the
difference between an argument and a confused stirring of prejudices. Then, again, he was not
content with abstract generalities: he was always trying to enforce his views by facts industriously
collected from such books of medicine, anatomy, geology, astronomy, chemistry, and history
as he could get hold of. We catch here what is perhaps the fundamental paradox of his character--the
combination of a curious rational hardness with the wildest and most romantic idealism. For
all its airiness, his verse was thrown off by a mind no stranger to thought and research.

We are now on the threshold of Shelley's poetic achievement, and it will be well before going
further to underline the connection, which persists all through his work and is already so
striking in 'Queen Mab', between his poetry and his philosophical and religious ideas.

Like Coleridge, he was a philosophical poet. But his philosophy was much more definite than
Coleridge's; it gave substance to his character and edge to his intellect, and, in the end,
can scarcely be distinguished from the emotion generating his verse. There is, however, no
trace of originality in his speculative writing, and we need not regret that, after hesitating
whether to be a metaphysician or a poet, he decided against philosophy. Before finally settling
to poetry, he at one time projected a complete and systematic account of the operations of
the human mind. It was to be divided into sections--childhood, youth, and so on. One of the
first things to be done was to ascertain the real nature of dreams, and accordingly, with characteristic
passion for a foundation of fact, he turned to the only facts accessible to him, and tried
to describe exactly his own experiences in dreaming. The result showed that, along with the
scientific impulse, there was working in him a more powerful antagonistic force. He got no
further than telling how once, when walking with Hogg near Oxford, he suddenly turned the corner
of a lane, and a scene presented itself which, though commonplace, was yet mysteriously connected
with the obscurer parts of his nature. The manuscript concludes: "I suddenly remembered to
have seen that exact scene in some dream of long--Here I was obliged to leave off, overcome
with thrilling horror." And, apart from such overwhelming surges of emotion from the depths
of sub-consciousness, he does not seem ever to have taken that sort of interest in the problems
of the universe which is distinctive of the philosopher; in so far as he speculated on the
nature and destiny of the world or the soul, it was not from curiosity about the truth, but
rather because correct views on these matters seemed to him especially in early years, an infallible
method of regenerating society. As his expectation of heaven on earth became less confident,
so the speculative impulse waned. Not long before his death he told Trelawny that he was not
inquisitive about the system of the universe, that his mind was tranquil on these high questions.
He seems, for instance, to have oscillated vaguely between belief and disbelief in personal
life after death, and on the whole to have concluded that there was no evidence for it.

At the same time, it is essential to a just appreciation of him, either as man or poet, to
see how all his opinions and feelings were shaped by philosophy, and by the influence of one
particular doctrine. This doctrine was Platonism. He first went through a stage of devotion
to what he calls "the sceptical philosophy," when his writings were full of schoolboy echoes
of Locke and Hume. At this time he avowed himself a materialist. Then he succumbed to Bishop
Berkeley, who convinced him that the nature of everything that exists is spiritual. This "intellectual
system," he rightly sees, leads to the view that nothing whatever exists except a single mind;
and that is the view which he found, or thought that he found, in the dialogues of Plato, and
which gave to his whole being a bent it was never to lose. He liked to call himself an atheist;
and, if pantheism is atheism, an atheist no doubt he was. But, whatever the correct label,
he was eminently religious. In the notes to 'Queen Mab' he announces his belief in "a pervading
Spirit co-eternal with the universe," and religion meant for him a "perception of the relation
in which we stand to the principle of the universe"--a perception which, in his case, was accompanied
by intense emotion. Having thus grasped the notion that the whole universe is one spirit, he
absorbed from Plato a theory which accorded perfectly with his predisposition--the theory that
all the good and beautiful things that we love on earth are partial manifestations of an absolute
beauty or goodness, which exists eternal and unchanging, and from which everything that becomes
and perishes in time derives such reality as it has. Hence our human life is good only in so
far as we participate in the eternal reality; and the communion is effected whenever we adore
beauty, whether in nature, or in passionate love, or in the inspiration of poetry. We shall
have to say something presently about the effects of this Platonic idealism on Shelley's conception
of love; here we need only notice that it inspired him to translate Plato's 'Symposium', a
dialogue occupied almost entirely with theories about love. He was not, however, well equipped
for this task. His version, or rather adaptation (for much is omitted and much is paraphrased),
is fluent, but he had not enough Greek to reproduce the finer shades of the original, or, indeed,
to avoid gross mistakes.

A poet who is also a Platonist is likely to exalt his office; it is his not merely to amuse
or to please, but to lead mankind nearer to the eternal ideal--Shelley called it Intellectual
Beauty--which is the only abiding reality. This is the real theme of his 'Defence of Poetry'
(1821), the best piece of prose he ever wrote. Thomas Love Peacock, scholar, novelist, and
poet, and, in spite of his mellow worldliness, one of Shelley's most admired friends, had published
a wittily perverse and paradoxical article, not without much good sense, on 'The Four Ages
of Poetry'. Peacock maintained that genuine poetry is only possible in half-civilised times,
such as the Homeric or Elizabethan ages, which, after the interval of a learned period, like
that of Pope in England, are inevitably succeeded by a sham return to nature. What he had in
mind was, of course, the movement represented by Wordsworth, Southey, and Coleridge, the romantic
poets of the Lake School, whom he describes as a "modern-antique compound of frippery and barbarism."
He must have greatly enjoyed writing such a paragraph as this: "A poet in our times is a semi-barbarian
in a civilised community. ... The march of his intellect is like that of a crab, backward.
The brighter the light diffused around him by the progress of reason, the thicker is the darkness
of antiquated barbarism in which he buries himself like a mole, to throw up the barren hillocks
of his Cimmerian labours." These gay shafts had at any rate the merit of stinging Shelley to
action. 'The Defence of Poetry' was his reply. People like Peacock treat poetry, and art generally,
as an adventitious seasoning of life--ornamental perhaps, but rather out of place in a progressive
and practical age. Shelley undermines the whole position by asserting that poetry--a name which
includes for him all serious art--is the very stuff out of which all that is valuable and real
in life is made. "A poem is the very image of life expressed in its eternal truth." And it
is on the imagination that poetry works, strengthening it as exercises strengthen a limb. Historically,
he argues, good poetry always coexists with good morals; for instance, when social life decays,
drama decays. Peacock had said that reasoners and mechanical inventors are more useful than
poets. The reply is that, left to themselves, they simply make the world worse, while it is
poets and "poetical philosophers" who produce "true utility," or pleasure in the highest sense.
Without poetry, the progress of science and of the mechanical arts results in mental and moral
indigestion, merely exasperating the inequality of mankind. While the emotions penetrated by
poetry last, "Self appears as what it is, an atom to a universe." It makes the familiar strange,
and creates the universe anew.

Other poets besides Shelley have seen

  "Through all that earthly dress
   Bright shoots of everlastingness,"

and others have felt that the freedom from self, which is attained in the vision, is supremely
good. What is peculiar to him, and distinguishes him from the poets of religious mysticism,
is that he reflected rationally on his vision, brought it more or less into harmony with a
philosophical system, and, in embracing it, always had in view the improvement of mankind.
Not for a moment, though, must it be imagined that he was a didactic poet. It was the theory
of the eighteenth century, and for a brief period, when the first impulse of the Romantic Movement
was spent, it was again to become the theory of the nineteenth century, that the object of
poetry is to inculcate correct principles of morals and religion. Poetry, with its power of
pleasing, was the jam which should make us swallow the powder unawares. This conception was
abhorrent to Shelley, both because poetry ought not to do what can be done better by prose,
and also because, for him, the pleasure and the lesson were indistinguishably one. The poet
is to improve us, not by insinuating a moral, but by communicating to others something of that
ecstasy with which he himself burns in contemplating eternal truth and beauty and goodness.

Hitherto all the writings mentioned have been, except 'The Defence of Poetry', those of a young
and enthusiastic revolutionary, which might have some interest in their proper historical and
biographical setting, but otherwise would only be read as curiosities. We have seen that beneath
Shelley's twofold drift towards practical politics and speculative philosophy a deeper force
was working. Yet it is characteristic of him that he always tended to regard the writing of
verse as a 'pis aller'. In 1819, when he was actually working on 'Prometheus', he wrote to
Peacock, "I consider poetry very subordinate to moral and political science," adding that he
only wrote it because his feeble health made it hopeless to attempt anything more useful. We
need not take this too seriously; he was often wrong about the reasons for his own actions.
From whatever motive, write poetry he did. We will now consider some of the more voluminous,
if not the most valuable, results.

'Alastor, or the Spirit of Solitude,' (4) is a long poem, written in 1815, which seems to shadow
forth the emotional history of a young and beautiful poet.

He wandered through many wildernesses, and visited the ruins of Egypt and the East, where an
Arab maiden fell in love with him and tended him. But he passes on, "through Arabie, and Persia,
and the wild Carmanian waste," and, arrived at the vale of Cashmire, lies down to sleep in
a dell. Here he has a vision. A "veiled maid" sits by him, and, after singing first of knowledge
and truth and virtue, then of love, embraces him. His limbs grow lean, his hair thin and pale.
Does death contain the secret of his happiness? At last he pauses "on the lone Chorasmian shore,"
and sees a frail shallop in which he trusts himself to the waves. Day and night the boat flies
before the storm to the base of the cliffs of Caucasus, where it is engulfed in a cavern. Following
the twists of the cavern, after a narrow escape from a maelstrom, he floats into a calm pool,
and lands.

     (4 "Alastor" is a Greek word meaning "the victim of an
     Avenging Spirit.")

In 'Alastor' he melted with pity over what he felt to be his own destiny; in 'The Revolt of
Islam' (1817) he was "a trumpet that sings to battle." This, the longest of Shelley's poems
(there are 4176 lines of it, exclusive of certain lyrical passages), is a versified novel with
a more or less coherent plot, though the mechanism is cumbrous, and any one who expects from
the title a story of some actual rebellion against the Turks will be disappointed. Its theme,
typified by an introductory vision of an eagle and serpent battling in mid-sky, is the cosmic
struggle between evil and good, or, what for Shelley is the same thing, between the forces
of established authority and of man's aspiration for liberty, the eagle standing for the powerful
oppressor, and the snake for the oppressed.

