SĀDHANĀ

THE REALISATION OF LIFE

By

Rabindranath Tagore

Author of 'Gitanjali'

1916

To

Ernest Rhys

Author's Preface

Perhaps it is well for me to explain that the subject-matter of the papers published in this
book has not been philosophically treated, nor has it been approached from the scholar's point
of view.  The writer has been brought up in a family where texts of the Upanishads are used
in daily worship; and he has had before him the example of his father, who lived his long life
in the closest communion with God, while not neglecting his duties to the world, or allowing
his keen interest in all human affairs to suffer any abatement.  So in these papers, it may
be hoped, western readers will have an opportunity of coming into touch with the ancient spirit
of India as revealed in our sacred texts and manifested in the life of to-day.

All the great utterances of man have to be judged not by the letter but by the spirit--the
spirit which unfolds itself with the growth of life in history.  We get to know the real meaning
of Christianity by observing its living aspect at the present moment--however different that
may be, even in important respects, from the Christianity of earlier periods.

For western scholars the great religious scriptures of India seem to possess merely a retrospective
and archælogical interest; but to us they are of living importance, and we cannot help thinking
that they lose their significance when exhibited in labelled cases--mummied specimens of human
thought and aspiration, preserved for all time in the wrappings of erudition.

The meaning of the living words that come out of the experiences of great hearts can never
be exhausted by any one system of logical interpretation.  They have to be endlessly explained
by the commentaries of individual lives, and they gain an added mystery in each new revelation.
To me the verses of the Upanishads and the teachings of Buddha have ever been things of the
spirit, and therefore endowed with boundless vital growth; and I have used them, both in my
own life and in my preaching, as being instinct with individual meaning for me, as for others,
and awaiting for their confirmation, my own special testimony, which must have its value because
of its individuality.

I should add perhaps that these papers embody in a connected form, suited to this publication,
ideas which have been culled from several of the Bengali discourses which I am in the habit
of giving to my students in my school at Bolpur in Bengal; and I have used here and there translations
of passages from these done by my friends, Babu Satish Chandra Roy and Babu Ajit Kumar Chakravarti.
The last paper of this series, "Realisation in Action," has been translated from my Bengali
discourse on "Karma- yoga" by my nephew, Babu Surendra Nath Tagore.

I take this opportunity of expressing my gratitude to Professor James H. Woods, of Harvard
University, for his generous appreciation which encouraged me to complete this series of papers
and read most of them before the Harvard University.  And I offer my thanks to Mr. Ernest Rhys
for his kindness in helping me with suggestions and revisions, and in going through the proofs.

A word may be added about the pronouncing of Sādhanā: the accent falls decisively on the first
ā, which has the broad sound of the letter.

CONTENTS

I. THE RELATION OF THE INDIVIDUAL TO THE UNIVERSE II. SOUL CONSCIOUSNESS III. THE PROBLEM OF
EVIL IV. THE PROBLEM OF SELF V. REALISATION IN LOVE VI. REALISATION IN ACTION VII. THE REALISATION
OF BEAUTY VIII. THE REALISATION OF THE INFINITE

I

THE RELATION OF THE INDIVIDUAL TO THE UNIVERSE

The civilisation of ancient Greece was nurtured within city walls.  In fact, all the modern
civilisations have their cradles of brick and mortar.

These walls leave their mark deep in the minds of men.  They set up a principle of "divide
and rule" in our mental outlook, which begets in us a habit of securing all our conquests by
fortifying them and separating them from one another.  We divide nation and nation, knowledge
and knowledge, man and nature.  It breeds in us a strong suspicion of whatever is beyond the
barriers we have built, and everything has to fight hard for its entrance into our recognition.

When the first Aryan invaders appeared in India it was a vast land of forests, and the new-comers
rapidly took advantage of them.  These forests afforded them shelter from the fierce heat of
the sun and the ravages of tropical storms, pastures for cattle, fuel for sacrificial fire,
and materials for building cottages.  And the different Aryan clans with their patriarchal
heads settled in the different forest tracts which had some special advantage of natural protection,
and food and water in plenty.

Thus in India it was in the forests that our civilisation had its birth, and it took a distinct
character from this origin and environment.  It was surrounded by the vast life of nature,
was fed and clothed by her, and had the closest and most constant intercourse with her varying
aspects.

Such a life, it may be thought, tends to have the effect of dulling human intelligence and
dwarfing the incentives to progress by lowering the standards of existence.  But in ancient
India we find that the circumstances of forest life did not overcome man's mind, and did not
enfeeble the current of his energies, but only gave to it a particular direction.  Having been
in constant contact with the living growth of nature, his mind was free from the desire to
extend his dominion by erecting boundary walls around his acquisitions.  His aim was not to
acquire but to realise, to enlarge his consciousness by growing with and growing into his surroundings.
He felt that truth is all-comprehensive, that there is no such thing as absolute isolation
in existence, and the only way of attaining truth is through the interpenetration of our being
into all objects.  To realise this great harmony between man's spirit and the spirit of the
world was the endeavour of the forest-dwelling sages of ancient India.

In later days there came a time when these primeval forests gave way to cultivated fields,
and wealthy cities sprang up on all sides.  Mighty kingdoms were established, which had communications
with all the great powers of the world.  But even in the heyday of its material prosperity
the heart of India ever looked back with adoration upon the early ideal of strenuous self-realisation,
and the dignity of the simple life of the forest hermitage, and drew its best inspiration from
the wisdom stored there.

The west seems to take a pride in thinking that it is subduing nature; as if we are living
in a hostile world where we have to wrest everything we want from an unwilling and alien arrangement
of things.  This sentiment is the product of the city-wall habit and training of mind.  For
in the city life man naturally directs the concentrated light of his mental vision upon his
own life and works, and this creates an artificial dissociation between himself and the Universal
Nature within whose bosom he lies.

But in India the point of view was different; it included the world with the man as one great
truth.  India put all her emphasis on the harmony that exists between the individual and the
universal.  She felt we could have no communication whatever with our surroundings if they
were absolutely foreign to us. Man's complaint against nature is that he has to acquire most
of his necessaries by his own efforts.  Yes, but his efforts are not in vain; he is reaping
success every day, and that shows there is a rational connection between him and nature, for
we never can make anything our own except that which is truly related to us.

