  How this seed of conviction first lodged in his mind it would be impossible to say;
in any one of the steps through which we have followed him, it might have taken its root; but
there it was, beginning to occupy his mind very seriously indeed; and he began to look out,
as all men do who wish to act upon faith or conviction which they cannot demonstrate to another
person, for some proofs that his conviction was a sound one.

And now, just at the moment when he needs it most, comes an incident that, to a man of his
religious and superstitious habit, seems like the pointing finger of Providence.  The story
of the shipwrecked pilot has been discredited by nearly all the modern biographers of Columbus,
chiefly because it does not fit in with their theory of his scientific studies and the alleged
bearing of these on his great discovery; but it is given by Las Casas, who says that it was
commonly believed by Columbus's entourage at Hispaniola.  Moreover, amid all the tangles of
theory and argument in which the achievement of Columbus has been involved, this original story
of shipwrecked mariners stands out with a strength and simplicity that cannot be entirely disregarded
by the historian who permits himself some light of imagination by which to work. It is more
true to life and to nature that Columbus should have received his last impulse, the little
push that was to set his accumulated energy and determination in motion, from a thing of pure
chance, than that he should have built his achievement up in a logical superstructure resting
on a basis of profound and elaborate theory.

In the year following Columbus's return from Guinea, then, he, and probably his family, had
gone over to Madeira from Porto Santo, and were staying there.  While they were there a small
ship put in to Madeira, much battered by storms and bad weather, and manned by a crew of five
sick mariners.  Columbus, who was probably never far from the shore at Funchal when a ship
came into the harbour, happened to see them.  Struck by their appearance, and finding them
in a quite destitute and grievously invalid condition, he entertained them in his house until
some other provision could be made for them.  But they were quite worn out.  One by one they
succumbed to weakness and illness, until one only, a pilot from Huelva, was left.  He also
was sinking, and when it was obvious that his end was near at hand, he beckoned his good host
to his bedside, and, in gratitude for all his kindness, imparted to him some singular knowledge
which he had acquired, and with which, if he had lived, he had hoped to win distinction for
himself.

The pilot's story, in so far as it has been preserved, and taking the mean of four contemporary
accounts of it, was as follows.  This man, whose name is doubtful, but is given as Alonso Sanchez,
was sailing on a voyage from one of the Spanish ports to England or Flanders.  He had a crew
of seventeen men.  When they had got well out to sea a severe easterly gale sprung up, which
drove the vessel before it to the westward.  Day after day and week after week, for twenty-eight
days, this gale continued.  The islands were all left far behind, and the ship was carried
into a region far beyond the limits of the ocean marked on the charts.  At last they sighted
some islands, upon one of which they landed and took in wood and water.  The pilot took the
bearings of the island, in so far as he was able, and made some observations, the only one
of which that has remained being that the natives went naked; and, the wind having changed,
set forth on his homeward voyage.  This voyage was long and painful.  The wind did not hold
steady from the west; the pilot and his crew had a very hazy notion of where they were; their
dead reckoning was confused; their provisions fell short; and one by one the crew sickened
and died until they were reduced to five or six--the ones who, worn out by sickness and famine,
and the labours of working the ship short-handed and in their enfeebled condition, at last
made the island of Madeira, and cast anchor in the beautiful bay of Funchal, only to die there.
All these things we may imagine the dying man relating in snatches to his absorbed listener;
who felt himself to be receiving a pearl of knowledge to be guarded and used, now that its
finder must depart upon the last and longest voyage of human discovery.  Such observations
as he had made--probably a few figures giving the bearings of stars, an account of dead reckoning,
and a quite useless and inaccurate chart or map--the pilot gave to his host; then, having delivered
his soul of its secret, he died.  This is the story; not an impossible or improbable one in
its main outlines.  Whether the pilot really landed on one of the Antilles is extremely doubtful,
although it is possible.  Superstitious and storm-tossed sailors in those days were only too
ready to believe that they saw some of the fabled islands of the Atlantic; and it is quite
possible that the pilot simply announced that he had seen land, and that the details as to
his having actually set foot upon it were added later.  That does not seem to me important
in so far as it concerns Columbus.  Whether it were true or not, the man obviously believed
it; and to the mind of Columbus, possessed with an idea and a blind faith in something which
could not be seen, the whole incident would appear in the light of a supernatural sign.  The
bit of paper or parchment with the rude drawing on it, even although it were the drawing of
a thing imagined and not of a thing seen, would still have for him a kind of authority that
he would find it hard to ignore.  It seems unnecessary to disbelieve this story.  It is obviously
absurd to regard it as the sole origin of Columbus's great idea; it probably belongs to that
order of accidents, small and unimportant in themselves, which are so often associated with
the beginnings of mighty events.  Walking on the shore at Madeira or Porto Santo, his mind
brooding on the great and growing idea, Columbus would remember one or two other instances
which, in the light of his growing conviction and know ledge, began to take on a significant
hue.  He remembered that his wife's relative, Pedro Correa, who had come back from Porto Santo
while Columbus was living in Lisbon, had told him about some strange flotsam that came in upon
the shores of the island.  He had seen a piece of wood of a very dark colour curiously carved,
but not with any tool of metal; and some great canes had also come ashore, so big that, every
joint would hold a gallon of wine.  These canes, which were utterly unlike any thing known
in Europe or the islands of the Atlantic, had been looked upon as such curiosities that they
had been sent to the King at Lisbon, where they remained, and where Columbus himself afterwards
saw them.  Two other stories, which he heard also at this time, went to strengthen his convictions.
One was the tale of Martin Vincenti, a pilot in the Portuguese Navy, who had found in the sea,
four hundred and twenty leagues to the west of Cape St. Vincent, another piece of wood, curiously
carved, that had evidently not been laboured with an iron instrument.  Columbus also remembered
that the inhabitants of the Azores had more than once found upon their coasts the trunks of
huge pine-trees, and strangely shaped canoes carved out of single logs; and, most significant
of all, the people of Flares had taken from the water the bodies of two dead men, whose faces
were of a strange broad shape, and whose features differed from those of any known race of
mankind.