On the contrary, it may be conclusively shown that Shakspere is constantly quoting from the
"First Part of Henry VI." and the "Contention," as from himself,--adjectives, figures of speech,
sentences, phrases. The cardinal in "Henry VI." is called a "scarlet hypocrite," in "Henry
VIII." a "scarlet sin." In one play the sentence "I am but shadow of myself" becomes in the
other "I am the shadow of poor Buckingham." "My book of memory" in "Henry" is changed to "the
table of my memory" in "Hamlet." "Who now is girded with a waist of iron" is repeated in "King
John"--"That as a waist do girdle you about." More striking still is the close resemblance
between the line in the "First Part"--"'Tis but the short'ning of my life one day" and the
line in "Henry V."--"Heaven shorten Harry's happy life one day."

In the "First Part of the Contention" the character described "bears a duke's whole revenue
on her back." In "Henry VIII." this is recalled by the line,--they "have broke their backs
with laying manors on them"; and in "King John"--"bearing their birthrights proudly on their
backs." In "Macbeth" the sentence "Infected minds to their deaf pillows will discharge their
secrets" is but a repetition of the line from the "Contention" in which Duke Humphrey's assassin
"whispers to his pillow as to him."

"You have no children, devils," is the language of the "Contention"; "he has no children" of
"Macbeth."

     "Bring forth that fatal screech owl to our house,
      That nothing sung but blood and death"

are the words of the "Contention";

     "Out on you, owls, nothing but songs of death,"

of "Richard III."

Malone suppresses the obvious resemblance between these passages and others like them, and
is guilty of the same uncritical conduct in disregarding the classical allusions in the "Second
and Third Parts of Henry VI." which he admits were added by Shakspere,--allusions as numerous
and striking as those in the "First Part."

Mr. Richard Grant White, after reviewing the argument of Knight, reaches the conclusion that
he "demolished Malone's theory," and this conclusion is a sufficient answer to Professor Wendell's
unsupported assertion that "Henry VI." is "certainly collaborative." We are therefore asked
to believe that Shakspere, in the historical plays bearing his name, imitated them or one of
them. Examination of the record will best show whether this latest critic has discovered any
evidence to support his new charge, that Shakspere "was the most obviously imitative dramatist
of all, following rather than leading superficial fashion."

Malone, in his "Chronological Order," says: "'The First Part of King Henry VI.,' which I imagine
was formerly known by the name of the 'Historical Play of King Henry VI.,' had, I suspect,
been a very popular piece for some years, before 1592, and perhaps was first exhibited in 1588
or 1589." Collier states "that it is merely the old play on the early events of that reign,
which was most likely written in 1589." Knight concludes that "there can be no doubt that the
composition of this play preceded that of the two parts of the 'Contention.'" That these had
been upon the stage before Greene died in 1592 is proven beyond dispute by Greene's savage
attack, at that time Shakspere was twenty-eight years old and for at least three years had
been a shareholder in the Blackfriars Theatre, and, if Mr. Sidney Lee is right, had been in
London six years; if old Aubry was better informed, he had been "acting exceeding well" and
making "essays at dramatic poetry which took well" for ten years.

The theory of "imitation" rests upon the assumption that Shakspere did not begin to write for
the stage before 1592; Collier asserts, without the slightest support from known facts, and
against the hostile testimony of Greene, that he wrote the "tiger's heart lines" before September,
1592, that "the 'History of Henry VI.,' the 'First Part of the Whole Contention,' and the 'True
Tragedy of Richard, Duke of York,' were all three in being before Shakspere began to write
for the stage"; and Mr. Hallam says, more cautiously, that "it seems probable that the old
plays of the 'Contention' ... were in great part by Marlowe."

And so, we find Shakspere in London, from six to ten years connected with its principal theatre,
but writing nothing for its stage, not even as a "hack-writer." We respectfully dissent from
this conclusion because it lacks support either in fact or probability. The man who, from utter
penury, had in 1589 won his way to a lucrative share in the theatre he made illustrious, and
who wrote "Romeo and Juliet," which first appeared, according to Ulrici's investigation, in
1592, was more capable of writing, and more likely to have written, the three original pieces
than Greene or Marlowe, to one of whom, or to some other writer, the authorship is assigned
by mere conjecture, from a fancied but confused and indeterminate likeness of style or metre
or classical quotation.

Marlowe was killed in a brawl with one Francis Archer, at Deptford, on the first day of June,
1593. The only dramas that can be certainly called his are the "Two Parts of Tamburlaine,"
"The Massacre of Paris," "Faustus," the "Jew of Malta" and "Edward II." His merits and his
faults have been discussed by many scholars; his style is characterized as the "mighty line";
he is said by many to have invented and introduced blank verse as the vehicle of the drama,
although "Gorboduc," acted before the Queen in 1561 and published in 1565, Gascogne's "Jocasta,"
played in 1566, and Whetstone's "Promos and Cassandra," printed in 1578, were wholly or partly
in blank verse. But it is admitted by all editors and critics that Marlowe's only historical
plays are "The Massacre" and "the almost masterly Edward II.," as Professor Wendell somewhat
ambiguously calls it. The "Massacre" ends with the death of Henry III. of France, who was assassinated
on the 1st of August, 1589; "it cannot, therefore, have been written earlier than about 1590."
Whatever its true date, it is not claimed to bear any likeness to either part of the "Contention."
On the contrary, "it was a subject in which Marlowe would naturally revel; for in the progress
of the action, blood could be made to flow as freely as water." The resemblance is sought in
his Edward II., which, as all the facts tend to show, was his latest work, written after the
"Massacre" and certainly not published in his lifetime. It was entered at Stationer's Hall
in July, 1593, a little more than a month after Marlowe's death. But here stands the "Contention"
with a fixed date, proved to have been in existence "in or close upon the first half of the
decade commencing in 1585," and the admission of all scholars that it preceded Marlowe's "Edward
II." If, therefore, Marlowe wrote one or both parts of the "Contention," the extravagant assumption
must be made "that his mind was so thoroughly disciplined at the period when he produced 'Tamburlaine,'
'Faustus' and the 'Jew of Malta' that he was able to lay aside every element, whether of thought
or expression, by which those plays are characterized, adopt essentially different principles
for the dramatic conduct of a story, copy his characters from living and breathing models of
actual men; come down from his pomp and extravagance of language, not to reject poetry, but
to ally poetry with familiar and natural thoughts; and delineate crime not with the glaring
and fantastic pencil that makes demons spout forth fire and blood ... but with a severe portraiture
of men who walk in broad daylight upon the common earth, rendering the ordinary passions of
their fellows,--pride, and envy, and ambition, and revenge,--most fearful, from their alliance
with stupendous intellect and unconquerable energy. This was what Marlowe must have done before
he could have conducted a single sustained scene of either part of the 'Contention'; before
he could have depicted the fierce hatreds of Beaufort and Gloster, the never-subdued ambition
of Margaret and York, the patient suffering, amidst taunting friends and reviling enemies,
of Henry, and, above all, the courage, the activity, the tenacity, the self-possession, the
intellectual supremacy and the passionless ferocity of Richard."

Does it need more to show that Marlowe was not the author of the "Contention"? Here is the
proof, and it does not rest upon conjecture, or inference from disputed facts, but upon records
that have survived the waste of three centuries. The "First Part of the Contention" was printed
by Thomas Creed, for Thomas Millington, in 1594; "The True Tragedy of Richard," the old name
of the "Second Part of the Contention," by "P. S." for Thomas Millington, in 1595. The title
page gives the name of no author for either play, and it is claimed by eminent authority that
both were piratical editions; but if Marlowe was the unquestioned author, were not his friends
and associates still living, three years after his death, to claim the honor of creating two
dramas which immeasurably surpassed any other he ever wrote? If it be asked why Shakspere's
friends did not claim the authorship for him, it is answered that as soon as another edition
appeared, they did. In 1619, three years after his death, a new edition of these very plays
appeared, with Shakspere's full name on the title page, and enlarged by additions from the
second and third parts of "Henry VI." And this proof is further supported: In an entry in the
Stationer's Registers under date of April 19, 1602, appears the following remark:--"Thom. Pavier:
By assignment from Th. Millington salvo jure cujuscunque: the First and Second Parts of 'Henry
VI.', two books." This entry refers to the two plays first published in 1594 and 1595, the
first of which is always called "The First Part of the Contention," and both of which in the
edition of 1619 were under the title of "The whole Contention between the two famous Houses
of Lancaster and York," by the same Th. Pavier who had received them "by assignment" from the
original publisher of the editions of 1594 and 1595,--Thomas Millington. Pavier knew in 1619,
and therefore put his name on the title page of his edition, that Shakspere was the author
of the two parts of the "Contention," but instead of giving them the extended titles of the
former editions, briefly and inaccurately designated them as "The First and Second Parts of
Henry VI." It results from these facts, that when Malone was attempting to show that Shakspere
was imitating Marlowe's "Edward II." in the lines--

     "Scorning that the lowly earth
      Should drink his blood, mounts up to the air,"

and--

     "Frown'st thou thereat, aspiring Lancaster?"

he forgot the important and established truth that Marlowe was imitating Shakspere in the "Contention."

For two centuries, until Malone's "Dissertation," nobody had claimed that Marlowe wrote any
portion of the "Contention"; for nearly two centuries, the "Second and Third Parts of Henry
VI." had appeared as the sole work of Shakspere, embodying act for act, scene for scene, event
for event and character for character, the whole "Contention," and nobody had claimed that
he was not the sole author of both. We therefore respectfully submit that Professor Wendell
has no warrant for his assertion that "to his contemporaries he must have seemed deficient
in originality, as least as compared with Lilly or Marlowe." "Henry VI." was not "collaborative."
Marlowe did not develop the type of chronicle history into his "almost masterly Edward II."

But Professor Wendell further asserts that "Greene and Peele were the chief makers of such
plays" before Marlowe, and the implication is that Shakspere, in his historical plays, "followed
the superficial fashion" set by them.

Of Greene's dramas, only two purport to have been his work,--"Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay"
and "The Scottish History of James the Fourth." "Orlando Furioso," generally assigned to him,
has no name on its title page; "Alphonsus, King of Aragon," is probably his, as it bears the
initials "R. G."; "The Looking Glass for London and England" bears the joint names of Lodge
and Greene; "The pleasant conceyted comedy of George-a-Green, the Pinner of Wakefield," sometimes
assigned to him, is of doubtful authorship.

"Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay" is characterized by Knight as "the old story of the Brazen Head.
There is here, unquestionably, more facility in the versification, much less of what we may
distinguish by the name of fustian, and some approach to simplicity and even playfulness. But
whenever Greene gets hold of a king, he invariably makes him talk in the right royal style
which we have already seen; and our Henry III. does not condescend to discourse in a bit more
simple English than the Soldan of Egypt or the King of Nineveh."

This play was first printed in 1594.

The old popular tradition of Friar Bacon and his magic arts is interwoven with the loves of
Prince Edward and Earl Lacy. Legend and love story have nothing in common, and their connection
is merely accidental. The Friar's design fails through the stupidity of his servant, but no
explanation is given of the folly of entrusting such weighty matters to a fool. The love story
turns upon the retirement from the amorous contest in favor of Lacy, but no reason is assigned
for the resulting trials of the successful party. There is no glimpse of history or of historical
chronicle in the piece. Of one thing we may be certain: With all his wonderful power, Shakspere
was incapable of imitating "The honorable Historie of Frier Bacon and Frier Bongay."

"James the Fourth" appeared in print in 1598 under the title "The Scottish Historie of James
the Fourth, slaine at Flodden, intermisted with a pleasant Comedie &c." Of this drama Ulrici
says that "Greene, led astray perhaps by Marlowe, ventured upon a task quite beyond him. He
as yet obviously had no idea of the dignity of history, of an historical spirit, of an historical
conception of the subject, or of an historical form of the drama. History with him resolves
itself into a romance." This opinion is fully sustained by the play itself; James falls in
love with Ida, the daughter of the Countess of Arran, but in spite of his disloyalty, his Queen
is faithful. James repents for the very good reason that Ida spurns him, but not until he has
ordered the Queen to be killed. The murder is unsuccessfully attempted, and after her partial
recovery, she rushes between the armies, disarms the hostility of her father, the English King,
and wins back her husband's love. The chief characters are Oberon, King of Fairies, and Rohan,
a "misanthropic recluse." Rohan has this veracious "history" enacted before Oberon, and so
justifies himself for having withdrawn from a bad world. This is the "pleasant Comedie" which
is connected with the main action by Slipper, Rohan's son, who plays the part of clown. It
is not strange that the impartial critic summed up the review with the remark that "the atmosphere
of history was evidently too pure and cool for Greene's taste." The play is a romance from
beginning to end; it has no pretension to the character of an historical drama. Mr. Dyce says
of it: "From what source our author derived the materials of this strange fiction I have not
been able to discover; nor could Mr. David Laing of Edinburg, who is so profoundly versed in
the ancient literature of his country, point out to me any Scottish chronicle or tract which
might have afforded hints to the poet for its composition."

The play originally called in 1599 "The Chronicle History of Alphonsus, King of Aragon" is
based upon a semi-historical foundation, and yet, as the highest authority has pronounced,
Greene "has erected such a romantic and fantastic structure upon this foundation, that it would
be doing him an injustice to judge his work from the standpoint of an historical drama."

It is plainly an imitation of "Tamburlaine." Alphonsus, singly and alone, conquers the crown
of Aragon and half the world in addition, accompanied by monotonous noise and blood. The ghost
of Mahomet is introduced as if to give variety to the scene, but fails utterly, and, nobody
can guess why, refuses to give the required oracle, but finally, importuned by the attendant
priests, gives a false one. Even the marriage of Alphonsus with Iphigenia fails to enliven
the style of the poet. But the machinery that moves the action is all wonderful and striking
and quite un-historical. Venus and the Muses recite the Prologue and act the dumb shows, representing
at the beginning of each act a retrospection of the Past and a forecast of the Future. And
Venus herself, with the help of Calliope, writes the play, "not with pen and ink, but with
flesh and blood and living action." "This ... indicates the fundamental idea of the piece.
Wherever the all-powerful goddess of love and beauty herself plans the actions and destinies
of mortals, there extraordinary things come to pass with playful readiness and grace."

"The Historie of Orlando Furioso," issued from the London press in 1594, is a light production
hastily sketched for a Court Festival, based upon the great romance of Ariosto, "but the superstructure
presents the most extravagant deviations from Ariosto's plan. The pomposity of the diction
is not amiss in the mouths of such stately personages as the Emperor of Africa, the Soldan
of Egypt, the Prince of Mexico, the King of the Isles and the mad Orlando."

It may not be amiss to quote an example:

     "Discourteous woman, nature's fairest ill,
      The woe of man, that first created curse,
      Base female sex, sprung from black Ate's loins,
      Proud, disdainful, cruel and unjust,
      Whose words are shaded with enchanting wiles,
      Worse than Medusa mateth all our minds;
      And in their hearts sit shameless treachery,
      Turning a truthless vile circumference!
      O, could my fury paint their furies forth!
      For hell's no hell, compared to their hearts,
      Too simple devils to conceal their arts;
      Born to be plagues unto the thoughts of men,
      Brought for eternal pestilence to the world."

It is difficult to think of Shakspere "bombasting out a blank verse" like this.

       *       *       *       *       *

The dramatic characters recite passages from the classic authors; the enchantress Melissa gives
a whole speech in Latin hexameters; Orlando bursts into Italian rhymes to utter his rage against
Angelica,--"a want of taste," says the commentator, "which brings the already unsuccessful
scene, the centre of the whole action, down to the sphere of the ridiculous."

Nobody has been able to determine how much of the "Looking Glass for London and England" was
written by Lodge, how much by Greene. Knight thinks the poetry should be assigned to Greene.
The whole piece is made up of an extraordinary mixture of Kings of Nineveh, Crete, Cicilia,
and Paphlagonia; of usurers, judges, lawyers, clowns, and ruffians; of angels, magi, sailors,
lords, and "one clad in Devil's attire." The Prophet Hosea presides over the whole performance,
with the exception of the first and last scenes,--a silent, invisible observer of the characters,
for the purpose of uttering an exhortation to the people at the end of each scene, that they
should take warning from Nineveh. There is a flash of lightning which kills two of the royal
family, and then another which strikes the parasite, Radagon. Both admonitions are equally
futile. At last an angel prays repeatedly, and in answer Jonah is sent to preach repentance.
His mission is successful, and at last Jehovah himself descends in angelic form and proclaims
mercy. It has been thought that the piece was written to silence the Puritan zealots who claimed
that the secular drama had demoralized the stage, and forgotten the purity of the Moral and
Miracle plays; but it has never been suggested that this was a "chronicle history."

"George-a-Greene, the Pinner of Wakefield," is not generally credited to Greene, but Ulrici,
from the style, assigns it to him. It makes no claim as an historical drama, but is based upon
two popular legends and some events during the reign of King Edward, without specifying which
king of that name, and "without regard to chronological order or historical truth."

Such is a brief and fair summary of the works, whether authentic or doubtful, of Robert Greene.
Let us turn to those of Peele, the friend of Greene and Marlowe.

Dyce assigns to him "The History of the two valiant Knights, Syr Clyomon, Knight of the Golden
Shield, sonne of the King of Denmark, and Syr Clamides the White Knight," printed without the
author's name in 1584.

The subject, a chivalrous romance, with dragons and sorcerers and lost princesses, is more
a narrative in dialogue than a drama. It is full of long speeches without any real action.
It resembles the "Moralities": the clown is called "Subtle Shift," sometimes "Vice." "Rumour"
and "Providence" appear, the one to tell Clyomon what has happened during his absence, the
other to prevent Clyomon's mistress "from committing rash and unnecessary suicide." The clown
calls the piece a "pageant"; it cannot be called "a chronicle history."

Peele's "Arraignment of Paris, a Pastorall" is a court drama in the style of Lilly, intended
to flatter the Queen, "poor in action but all the richer in gallant phrases, provided with
songs, one in Italian, and with all kinds of love scenes between shepherds and shepherdesses,
nymphs and terrestrial gods"; the diction is interesting, because it shows revolt from the
prevailing "euphuism," and therefore Peele must be given the praise of first opposing Lilly's
affected style.

The subject and action are as far removed from history as earth from heaven; Paris is accused
by Juno and Pallas before the assembled gods, for having pronounced an unjust sentence; he
is released without punishment, but as the fair plaintiffs persist in their appeal, the decision
is left to Diana, who then awards the fatal apple, not to any of the three goddesses, but to
the wise nymph Eliza, who is as chaste as she is beautiful and powerful. Juno, Pallas, and
Venus of course agree to this decision and lay all their gifts at the feet of the Queen. At
the end, even the three Fates appear, in order, in a Latin chant, to deliver up the emblems
of their power, and therewith the power itself, to the exalted nymph.

"The Old Wife's Tale, a pleasant conceited Comedie," published in 1595, is a dramatized old
wife's story told to three erring fancies, Frolic, Antic and Fantastic, quite in the style
of a fairy tale, "always wavering in the peculiar twilight, between profound sense and nonsense,
between childish play and matured humor." Two brothers who have lost their sisters appear,
and then an insolent giant, swaggering with a double-edged sword and attended by an enamored
fool, and finally a knight-errant devoting his fortune to pay the stingy sexton for the burial
of a victim of poverty; they are now hunting for the princess, the sisters, and the beloved
lady, and to free them from the sorcerer; none of them succeed in the effort, except the knight,
"and he only by the help of the ghost of the poor Jack whose body he buried."

"The Battel of Alcazar fought in Barbarie" is attributed to Peele and was published in 1586,
soon after Marlowe's "Tamburlaine," after which it is modelled and to which it expressly refers.
The commentator says: "It is a mere battle piece, full of perpetual fighting and noise, of
which the action almost exclusively consists." There is nothing to show that it had any connection
with history or chronicle, or was anything better than a hurriedly written, spectacular drama.

The "Edward I." of Peele bears this title: "The famous Chronicle of King Edward the First,
surnamed Edward Longshanks, with his Return from the Holy Land. Also the life of Llewellen
Rebell in Wales. Lastly, the sinking of Queene Elinor, who sunk at Charing-crosse, and rose
again at Pottershith, now named Queenshith."

The title itself proves that it is not a "chronicle" but an unhistorical fiction. The events
pass by in one straight, continuous line, the dramatic personages are characterized almost
solely by their actions, the language is a mere sketch. The Queen murders the Lady Mayoress,
and on her death-bed confesses a double adultery; she commits perjury by denying the murder
and calls upon Heaven to sink her into the depths of the earth if she had spoken falsely. "That
she 'sunk at Charing-crosse' before it was erected to her memory, is a sufficiently remarkable
circumstance in Peele's play, but it is more remarkable that, assuming to be a 'famous Chronicle,'
and in one or two of the events following the Chronicle, he has represented the Queen altogether
to be a fiend in female shape,--proud, adulterous, cruel, treacherous and bloody." The play
contradicts the Chronicle, and therefore cannot be called a chronicle history. Hollinshed,
the source of all Shakspere's histories, says of Queen Eleanor: "She was a godly and modest
princess, full of pity, and one that showed much favor to the English nation, ready to relieve
every man's grief that sustained wrong, and to make those friends that were at discord, so
far as in her lay."

Mr. Hallam has characterized this violation of historical truth as a "hideous misrepresentation
of the virtuous Eleanor of Castile.... The 'Edward I.' of Peele is a gross tissue of absurdity
with some facility of language, but nothing truly good." Nobody but Professor Wendell has ever
even intimated that Shakspere imitated it.

It is hardly necessary to consider "The Love of King David and Fair Bethsabe," published in
1599, because, in the deliberate opinion of those who have studied the subject most deeply,
it was not written till "Romeo and Juliet" was upon the stage in 1592. In it there are distinct
traces of Shakspere's influence. "The love scenes, and the images and similes describing the
charms of the beauty of nature, remind one of those incomparable pictures in 'Romeo and Juliet.'"
In Peele's other plays he has made but feeble attempts to depict love, beauty, or grace; in
"King David" he has "depicted them with a remarkably high degree of success."

These are all the works of Peele which have come down to our time, and after this review of
his and of Greene's dramas, it does not seem that "Greene and Peele were the chief makers of
such plays," that is, of "chronicle histories," before Marlowe. The truth is, that all the
supporters of Malone's theory have taken Malone's unsupported statement as indisputable fact;
they have not sufficiently examined the works of Greene and Peele, but have assumed, as Malone
assumed, that Greene's charge in his "Groat's Worth of Wit" was conclusive proof that Shakspere
did not write the two parts of the "Contention," and that Greene, or one of the friends he
addresses, was in fact the author.

This assumption has again and again been shown to be without foundation. There was no point
in Greene's dying sarcasm if he merely quoted a line written by himself; if he quoted one written
by Shakspere, the whole argument of Professor Wendell, that "Henry VI." was "certainly collaborative,"
that his early work was "hack-writing," that "he hardly ever did anything first," that "to
his contemporaries he must have seemed deficient in originality," falls to the ground.

Having done what Malone failed to do, and what Professor Wendell seems not to have done,--having
reviewed at some length the works of Shakspere's contemporaries to whom the older chronicle
plays are attributed by Malone,--we invoke, in support of the position we have taken, the opinion
of Mr. Charles Knight in his "Essay on Henry VI. and Richard III."

"The dramatic works of Greene, which were amongst the rarest treasures of the bibliographer,
have been rendered accessible to the general reader by the valuable labors of Mr. Dyce. To
those who are familiar with these works we will appeal, without hesitation, in saying that
the character of Greene's mind, and his habits of composition, rendered him utterly incapable
of producing, not the Two Parts of the 'Contention,' or one Part, but a single sustained scene
of either Part.

"And yet a belief has been long entertained in England, to which some wise and judicious still
cling, that Greene and Peele either wrote the Two Parts of the 'Contention' in conjunction;
or that Greene wrote one Part and Peele the other Part; or that, at any rate, Greene had some
share in these dramas. This was the theory propagated by Malone in his 'Dissertation'; and
it rests not upon the slightest examination of these writers, but solely on the far-famed passage
in Greene's posthumous pamphlet, the 'Groat's Worth of Wit,' in which he points out Shakspere
as 'a crow beautified with our feathers.' The hypothesis seems to us to be little less than
absurd.... He parodies a line from one of the productions of which he had been so plundered,
to carry the point home, to leave no doubt as to the sting of his allusion. But, as has been
most justly observed, the epigram would have wanted its sting if the line parodied had not
been that of the very writer attacked."

"Titus Andronicus" is a "tragedy of blood" written by Shakspere, according to the highest authority,
when he was twenty-three or twenty-four years of age. Ben Johnson says, in his "Bartholomew
Fair" (1614), that it had been on the stage for twenty-five or thirty years. It was doubtless
a very early work, but whether "much in the manner of Kyd," as Professor Wendell asserts, can
be best determined by reference to Kyd's works. The claim has been made by other critics that
"Titus" was "collaborative," but Professor Wendell's is that it was an "imitation."

"The Tragedy of Soliman and Perseda," first printed in 1599, is of doubtful authorship, but
has sometimes been credited to Kyd. "The piece still bears a striking resemblance to the old
Moral Plays and thereby proves its relatively early origin. A chorus consisting of the allegorical
figures Love, Happiness, and Death opens the play and each separate act, and ends it with a
controversy in which all the personified powers boast of their deeds and triumphs over the
others, till at the end of the fifth act Death remains the victor, and the whole concludes
with a eulogy of Queen Elizabeth, the only mortal whom Death does not venture to approach."
"Titus Andronicus" will be searched in vain for "much" or little of this "manner of Kyd."

"The First Part of Jeronimo, with the Warres of Portugal and the Life and Death of Don Andrea,"
not published till 1605, is not an authentic work of Kyd, but is attributed to him by some
because, judging from the subject, it belongs to "The Spanish Tragedy" and is regarded by Henslowe
as the first part of it. A. W. Schlegel says that "both of these parts are full of absurdities,
that the author had ventured upon describing the most forced situations and passions without
being aware of his want of power, that especially the catastrophe of the second part, which
is intended to surpass every conceivable horror, is introduced in a trivial manner, merely
producing a ludicrous effect, and that the whole was like a child's drawings, wholly unmindful
of the laws of proportion."

Ulrici maintains that "Jeronimo" itself may be treated as a play in three parts connected only
externally: first, the war between Portugal and Spain; second, the life and death of Don Andrea,
and third the acts of Jeronimo, who is, however, only a subordinate character. But whether
the play be treated as a whole or as composed of substantially separate parts, its action and
interest are centred in the story of the love of Don Andrea and Bellimperia; Lorenzo, her brother,
persecutes both because he is jealous of Andrea's success. Andrea is finally killed; at his
funeral, his ghost appears for no assigned reason, except to exchange greeting with his friend
Horatio. "Revenge" and Charon also appear, the one "to forbid Andrea's ghost from divulging
the secrets of Hell, the other to accompany him back to the lower regions," and the learned
critic adds that "this allegorical by-play is inserted so arbitrarily, so inappropriately and
so unmeaningly, that it forms the best standpoint for judging the piece as regards its composition
and poetical character. In this respect its value is next to nothing."

If Kyd wrote "Jeronimo," of which there is no satisfactory proof, and if Shakspere wrote "Titus,"
"much in the manner of Kyd," which we venture to think more doubtful than the authorship of
"Jeronimo," then Shakspere's supposed imitation was much "better" than the original "popular
thing."

That Kyd wrote "The Spanish Tragedy, containing the lamentable end of Don Horatio and Bellimperia
with the pitifull Death of Old Hieronimo," first published in 1599, is certified by Heywood
in his "Apology for Actors," and there is good authority for the opinion that it was acted
as early as 1588. We quote the summary of the plot:

"It is not wanting in absurdities, for the play opens and is connected with 'Jeronimo' by a
conversation between Andrea's ghost and 'Revenge'; both remain continually on the stage as
silent, invisible spectators, in order, at the end of every act, to add a few words, in which
Andrea laments over the delay in the revenge of his death upon the Infanta Belthazar, and 'Revenge'
admonishes him to be patient; at the end of the fifth act both return satisfied to the lower
regions. Then Bellimperia suddenly falls in love with Horatio, who now steps into Andrea's
place, and is persecuted by Lorenzo, at first without any cause whatever, and is finally assassinated.
By some means which remain perfectly unexplained and incomprehensible, Lorenzo keeps old Jeronimo
from the Court, so that he cannot bring forward his accusation against the murderers of his
son. Jeronimo is consequently seized with madness, which, however, suddenly turns into a well
calculated and prudent action. The conclusion of the piece is a general massacre, in which
Jeronimo, after having killed Lorenzo, bites off his own tongue, stabs the Duke of Castile,
and then himself with a penknife."

It can hardly seem strange that the critic should add: "This at once explains why no piece
was more generally ridiculed by contemporary and younger poets, than "The Spanish Tragedy.""

If Shakspere imitated Kyd in "Titus," from such stuff as this, he was surely wise in his "sluggish
avoidance of needless invention."

We are tempted to suggest, however, that "The Spanish Tragedy" affords a rich and ample field
to modern critics who are solicitous to save the life and work of "the gentle William" from
the imputation of being "superhuman": Is it not clear that "Hamlet" was only an imitation of
"The Spanish Tragedy"? Did not Hamlet have a friend whose name was Horatio? Was not Hamlet,
like Jeronimo, "essentially mad," and did not his madness "turn into a well calculated and
prudent action"?

Kyd was the undoubted author of another work, under the following title: "Pompey the Great,
his fair Cornelia's Tragedie: effected by her Father's and Husband's downe-cast Death and fortune,
written in French by that excellent Poet, R. Garnier, and translated into English by Thomas
Kyd." This translation was printed in 1595. The play is thus summarized: It is "a piece which
is constructed upon a misunderstood model of the ancients; it is altogether devoid of dramatic
action, in reality merely lyrics and rhetoric in dialogue. The whole of the first act consists
of one emphatic jeremiad by Cicero, about the desperate condition of Rome as it then was, its
factiousness, its servility,--a jeremiad which is continued at the end of the act, by the chorus,
in rhymed stanzas. In this tone it proceeds without a trace of action through the whole of
the succeeding act, till maledictions and outbursts of grief on the part of Cornelia conclude
the piece at the same point at which it had commenced."

It has never been claimed that "Cornelia" was the model for "Titus." "Cornelia" and "The Spanish
Tragedy" are the only dramas that can be certainly called Kyd's. Comparison between these,
or either of the others doubtfully attributed to him, and "Titus Andronicus," shows beyond
question that the only similarity between the most similar is that both are "tragedies of blood."
There is no likeness of plot, characterization, action or diction. There is in "Titus" none
of Kyd's "huffing, bragging, puft" language. A ghost concludes "Jeronimo" whose "hopes have
end in their effects" "when blood and sorrow finish my desires," "these were spectacles to
please my soul." In "Titus," even the Satanic Aaron, "in the whirlwind of passion," "acquires
and begets a temperance" that "gives it smoothness."

When Tamora proposes crimes to her sons, that fiends would refuse to execute, Lavinia does
not shriek, nor rant, nor call upon the gods, but speaks what nobody but Shakspere could have
uttered,--

     "O Tamora! thou bear'st a woman's face."

It is not necessary to consider the claim sometimes made, that Kyd wrote an old "Taming of
the Shrew" or an old "Hamlet." "It is a mere arbitrary conjecture" that he was the author of
either.

There is therefore no proof that Shakspere imitated Kyd, and Professor Wendell's assertion
that "Titus Andronicus" is "much" in his manner is utterly without support.

"The Comedy of Errors" was unquestionably suggested by the "Twins" of Plautus. Is it therefore
an imitation?

What is literary imitation? Did Dante imitate Virgil because Virgil's ghost was the guide through
the "Inferno"? Did Milton imitate Dante in "Paradise Lost" because he describes the same scenes
in different words? Did he imitate the author of Genesis because he reproduces the Garden of
Eden in majestic poetry? "Paradise Lost" seems to Professor Wendell "almost superhuman," but
when any suggestion of transcendent power is applied to Shakspere, it assumes an "unnecessary
miracle." Shakspere, whom ten generations of great men have failed to imitate, is in the opinion
of Professor Wendell but an imitator, because while, as he says, "he could not help wakening
to life the stiffly conventional characters which he found, as little more than names, in the
tales and the fictions he adapted for the stage," he wrote chronicle plays, comedies, romances,
tragedies, after others had worked in the same fields.

Milton was born in 1608. "That was the year," says Professor Wendell, "when Shakspere probably
came to the end of his tragic period, and, with the imitativeness which never forsook him,
was about to follow the newly popular manner of Beaumont and Fletcher."

