Proof.- We call a thing good or evil, when it is of service or the  reverse in preserving our
being (IV:Def.i.&.ii.), that is (III:vii.),  when it increases or diminishes, helps or hinders,
our power of activity.  Thus, in so far as we perceive that a thing affects us with pleasure
or  pain, we call it good or evil; wherefore the knowledge of good and evil  is nothing else
but the idea of the pleasure or pain, which necessarily  follows from that pleasurable or painful
emotion (II:xxii.). But this idea  is united to the emotion in the same way as mind is united
to body  (II:xxi.); that is, there is no real distinction between this idea and  the emotion
or idea of the modification of the body, save in conception  only. Therefore the knowledge
of good and evil is nothing else but the  emotion, in so far as we are conscious thereof. Q.E.D.

Prop. IX. An emotion, whereof we conceive  the cause to be with us at the present time,  is
stronger than if we did not conceive the  cause to be with us. But a conception (by II:xvii.)
is stronger,  so long as we conceive nothing which excludes the present existence  of the external
object; wherefore an emotion is also stronger or more  intense, when we conceive the cause
to be with us at the present time,  than when we do not conceive the cause to be with us. Q.E.D.

Note.- When I said above in III:xviii. that we are affected by the image  of what is past or
future with the same emotion as if the thing conceived  were present, I expressly stated, that
this is only true in so far as we  look solely to the image of the thing in question itself
; for the thing's  nature is unchanged, whether we have conceived it or not; I did not deny
that the image becomes weaker, when we regard as present to us other  things which exclude
the present existence of the future object: I did  not expressly call attention to the fact,
because I purposed to treat  of the strength of the emotions in this part of my work.

Corollary.- The image of something past or future, that is, of a thing  which we regard as
in relation to time past or time future, to the  exclusion of time present, is, when other
conditions are equal, weaker  than the image of something present; consequently an emotion
felt towards  what is past or future is less intense, other conditions being equal,  than an
emotion felt towards something present.

Prop. X. Towards something future, which we  conceive as close at hand, we are affected  more
intensely, than if we conceive that  its time for existence is separated from  the present
by a longer interval; so too  by the remembrance of what we conceive to  have not long passed
away we are affected  more intensely, than if we conceive that  it has long passed away. 

Proof.- In so far as we conceive a thing as close at hand, or not long  passed away, we conceive
that which excludes the presence of the object  less, than if its period of future existence
were more distant from the  present, or if it had long passed away (this is obvious) therefore
(by the  foregoing Prop.) we are, so far, more intensely affected towards it. Q.E.D.

Corollary.- From the remarks made in IV:Def.vi. of this part it follows  that, if objects are
separated from the present by a longer period than  we can define in conception, though their
dates of occurrence be widely  separated one from the other, they all affect us equally faintly.

Prop. XI. An emotion towards that which  we conceive as necessary is, when other  conditions
are equal, more intense than  an emotion towards that which impossible,  or contingent, or
non-necessary.

Proof.- In so far as we conceive a thing to be necessary, we, to that  extent, affirm its existence;
on the other hand we deny a thing's  existence, in so far as we conceive it not to be necessary
:xxxiii.note.i.);  wherefore (IV.ix.) an emotion towards that which is necessary is, other
conditions being equal, more intense than an emotion that which is  non-necessary. Q.E.D.

Prop. XII. An emotion towards a thing,  which we know not to exist at the present  time, and
which we conceive as possible,  is more intense, other conditions being  equal, than an emotion
towards a thing  contingent.

Proof.- In so far as we conceive a thing as contingent, we are affected  by the conception
of some further thing, which would assert the existence  of the former (IV:Def.iii.); but,
on the other hand, we (by hypothesis)  conceive certain things, which exclude its present existence.
But, in  so far as we conceive a thing to be possible in the future, we there by  conceive
things which assert its existence (IV:iv.), that is (III:xviii.),  things which promote hope
or fear: wherefore an emotion towards something  possible is more vehement. Q.E.D.

Corollary.- An emotion towards a thing, which we know not to exist in the  present, and which
we conceive as contingent, is far fainter, than if we  conceive the thing to be present with us.

Proof.- Emotion towards a thing, which we conceive to exist, is more  intense than it would
be, if we conceived the thing as future V:ix.Coroll.),  and is much more vehement, than if
the future time be conceived as far  distant from the present (IV:x.). Therefore an emotion
towards a thing,  whose period of existence we conceive to be far distant from the present,
is far fainter, than if we conceive the thing as present; it is,  nevertheless, more intense,
than if we conceived the thing as contingent,  wherefore an emotion towards a thing, which
we regard as contingent,  will be far fainter, than if we conceived the thing to be present
with us.  Q.E.D.

Prop. XIII. Emotion towards a thing contingent,  which we know not to exist in the present,
is,  other conditions being equal, fainter than an  emotion towards a thing past.

Proof.- In so far as we conceive a thing as contingent, we are not  affected by the image of
any other thing, which asserts the existence  of the said thing (IV:Def.iii.), but, on the
other hand (by hypothesis),  we conceive certain things excluding its present existence. But,
in so  far as we conceive it in relation to time past, we are assumed to  conceive something,
which recalls the thing to memory, or excites the  image thereof (II:xviii.&Note), which is
so far the same as regarding  it as present (II:xvii.Coroll.). Therefore (IV:ix.) an emotion
towards a  thing contingent, which we know does not exist in the present, is fainter,  other
conditions being equal, than an emotion towards a thing past. Q.E.D.

Prop. XIV. A true knowledge of good and evil  cannot check any emotion by virtue of being true,
but only in so far as it is considered as an emotion.

Proof.- An emotion is an idea, whereby the mind affirms of its body a  greater or less force
of existing than before (by the general Definition  of the Emotions); therefore it has no positive
quality, which can be  destroyed by the presence of what is true; consequently the knowledge
of good and evil cannot, by virtue oi being true, restrain any emotion.   But, in so far as
such knowledge is an emotion (IV:viii.) if it have  more strength for restraining emotion,
it will to that extent be able  to restrain the given emotion. Q.E.D.

Prop. XV. Desire arising from the  knowledge of good and bad can be  quenched or checked by
many of the  other desires arising from the  emotions whereby we are assailed. But, inasmuch
as this desire arises (by hypothesis) from the  fact of our truly understanding anything, it
follows that it is also  present with us, in so far as we are active (III:i.), and must therefore
be understood through our essence only (III:Def.ii.); consequently  (III:vii.) its force and
increase can be defined solely by human power.  Again, the desires arising from the emotions
whereby we are assailed are  stronger, in proportion as the said emotions are more vehement;
wherefore  their force and increase must be defined solely by the power of external  causes,
which, when compared with our own power, indefinitely surpass it  (IV:iii.); hence the desires
arising from like emotions may be more  vehement, than the desire which arises from a true
knowledge of good and  evil, and may, consequently, control or quench it. Q.E.D.

Prop. XVI. Desire arising from the knowledge  of good and evil, in so far as such knowledge
regards what is future, may be more easily  controlled or quenched, than the desire for  what
is agreeable at the present moment.

Proof.- Emotion towards a thing, which we conceive as future, is fainter  than emotion towards
a thing that is present (IV:ix.Coroll.). But desire,  which arises from the true knowledge
of good and evil, though it be  concerned with things which are good at the moment, can be
quenched  or controlled by any headstrong desire (by the last Prop., the proof  whereof is
of universal application). Wherefore desire arising from  such knowledge, when concerned with
the future, can be more easily  controlled or quenched, &c. Q.E.D.

Prop. XVII. Desire arising from the true  knowledge of good and evil, in so far as  such knowledge
is concerned with what is  contingent, can be controlled far more  easily still, than desire
for things  that are present.

Proof.- This Prop. is proved in the same way as the last Prop. from  IV:xii.Coroll.

Note.- I think I have now shown the reason, why men are moved by opinion  more readily than
by true reason, why it is that the true knowledge of good  and evil stirs up conflicts in the
soul, and often yields to every kind of  passion. This state of things gave rise to the exclamation
of the poet:  (Ov. Met. vii.20, "Video meliora proboque, Deteriora sequor.")

    The better path I gaze at and approve, 

   The worse - I follow."
Ecclesiastes seems to have had the same thought in his mind, when he says, 
"He who increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow." I have not written the 
above with the object of drawing the conclusion, that ignorance is more 
excellent than knowledge, or that a wise man is on a par with a fool in 
controlling his emotions, but because it is necessary to know the power 
and the infirmity of our nature, before we can determine what reason can 
do in restraining the emotions, and what is beyond her power. I have said, 
that in the present part I shall merely treat of human infirmity. The 
power of reason over the emotions I have settled to treat separately.

Prop. XVIII. Desire arising from pleasure is,  other conditions being equal, stronger than
desire arising from pain.

Proof.- Desire is the essence of a man (Def. of the Emotions, i.),  that is, the endeavour
whereby a man endeavours to persist in his own  being. Wherefore desire arising from pleasure
is, by the fact of  pleasure being felt, increased or helped; on the contrary, desire  arising
from pain is, by the fact of pain being felt, diminished or  hindered; hence the force of desire
arising from pleasure must be  defined by human power together with the power of an external
cause,  whereas desire arising from pain must be defined by human power only.  Thus the former
is the stronger of the two. Q.E.D.

Note.- In these few remarks I have explained the causes of human infirmity  and inconstancy,
and shown why men do not abide by the precepts of reason.  It now remains for me to show what
course is marked out for us by reason,  which of the emotions are in harmony with the rules
of human reason, and  which of them are contrary thereto.

But, before I begin to prove my Propositions in detailed geometrical  fashion, it is advisable
to sketch them briefly in advance, so that  everyone may more readily grasp my meaning.

As reason makes no demands contrary to nature, it demands, that every  man should love himself,
should seek that which is useful to him - I mean,  that which is really useful to him, should
desire everything which really  brings man to greater perfection, and should, each for himself,
endeavour  as far as he can to preserve his own being. This is as necessarily true,  as that
a whole is greater than its part. (Cf. III:iv.)

Again, as virtue is nothing else but action in accordance with the  laws of one's own nature
(IV:Def.viii.), and as no one endeavours to  preserve his own being, except in accordance with
the laws of his own  nature, it follows, first, that the foundation of virtue is the endeavour
to preserve one's own being, and that happiness consists in man's power  of preserving, his
own being; secondly, that virtue is to be desired for  its own sake, and that there is nothing
more excellent or more useful to  us, for the sake of which we should desire it; thirdly and
lastly that  suicides are weak-minded, and are overcome by external causes repugnant to  their
nature. Further, it follows from Postulate iv. Part.II., that we can  never arrive at doing
without all external things for the preservation of  our being or living, so as to have no
relations with things  which are outside ourselves. Again, if we consider our mind, we see
that  our intellect would be more imperfect, if mind were alone, and could  understand nothing
besides itself. There are, then, many things outside  ourselves, which are useful to us, and
are, therefore, to be desired.  Of such none can be discerned more excellent, than those which
are in  entire agreement with our nature. For if, for example, two individuals  of entirely
the same nature are united, they form a combination twice  as powerful as either of them singly.

Therefore, to man there is nothing more useful than man - nothing,  I repeat, more excellent
for preserving their being can be wished for  by men, than that all should so in all points
agree, that the minds and  bodies of all should form, as it were, one single mind and one single
body, and that all should, with one consent, as far as they are able,  endeavour to preserve
their being, and all with one consent seek what is  useful to them all. Hence, men who are
governed by reason - that is, who  seek what is useful to them in accordance with reason, desire
for  themselves nothing, which they do not also desire for the rest of mankind,  and, consequently,
are just, faithful, and honourable in their conduct.

Such are the dictates of reason, which I purposed thus briefly to  indicate, before beginning
to prove them in greater detail. I have taken  this course, in order, if possible, to gain
the attention of those who  believe, that the principle that every man is bound to seek what
is useful  for himself is the foundation of impiety, rather than of piety and virtue. 

Therefore, after briefly showing that the contrary is the case, I go  on to prove it by, the
same method, as that whereby I have hitherto  proceeded.

Prop. XIX. Every man, by the laws of his  nature, necessarily desires or shrinks  from that
which he deems to be good or bad.

Proof.- The knowledge of good and evil is (IV:viii.) the emotion of  pleasure or pain, in so
far as we are conscious thereof; therefore,  every man necessarily desires what he thinks good,
and shrinks from  what he thinks bad. Now this appetite is nothing else but man's nature  or
essence (Cf. the Definition of Appetite, III.ix.note, and Def. of  the Emotions, i.). Therefore,
every man, solely by the laws of his  nature, desires the one, and shrinks from the other,
&c. Q.E.D. 

Prop. XX. The more every man endeavours,  and is able to seek what is useful to him -  in other
words, to preserve his own being -  the more is he endowed with virtue; on the  contrary, in
proportion as a man neglects  to seek what is useful to him, that is, to  preserve his own
being, he is wanting in power.

Proof.- Virtue is human power, which is defined solely by man's essence  (IV:Def.viii.), that
is, which is defined solely by the endeavour made by  man to persist in his own being. Wherefore,
the more a man endeavours,  and is able to preserve his own being, the more is he endowed with
virtue,  and, consequently (III:iv.&,vi.), in so far as a man neglects to  preserve his own
being, he is wanting in power. Q.E.D. 

Note.- No one, therefore, neglects seeking his own good, or preserving his  own being, unless
he be overcome by causes external and foreign to his  nature. No one, I say, from the necessity
of his own nature, or otherwise  than under compulsion from external causes, shrinks from food,
or kills  himself: which latter may be done in a variety of ways. A man, for  instance, kills
himself under the compulsion of another man, who twists  round his right hand, wherewith he
happened to have taken up a sword, and  forces him to turn the blade against his own heart;
or, again, he may be  compelled, like Seneca, by a tyrant's command, to open his own veins
-  that is, to escape a greater evil by incurring, a lesser; or, lastly,  latent external causes
may so disorder his imagination, and so affect his  body, that it may assume a nature contrary
to its former one, and whereof  the idea cannot exist in the mind (III:x.) But that a man,
from the  necessity of his own nature, should endeavour to become non-existent, is  as impossible
as that something should be made out of nothing, as everyone  will see for himself, after a
little reflection.

Prop. XXI. No one can desire to be blessed,  to act rightly, and to live rightly, without 
at the same time wishing to be, act, and to  live - in other words, to actually exist.

Proof.- The proof of this proposition, or rather the proposition itself,  is self-evident,
and is also plain from the definition of desire. For the  desire of living, acting, &C., blessedly
or rightly, is (Def. of the  Emotions, i.) the essence of man - that is (III:vii.), the endeavour
made by everyone to preserve his own being. Therefore, no one can  desire, &c. Q.E.D.

Prop. XXII. No virtue can be conceived  as prior to this endeavour to preserve  one's own being.

Proof.- The effort for self-preservation is the essence of a thing  (III:vii.); therefore,
if any virtue could be conceived as prior  thereto, the essence of a thing would have to be
conceived as  prior to itself, which is obviously absurd. Therefore no virtue, &c.  Q.E.D.

Corollary.- The effort for self-preservation is the first and only  foundation of virtue. For
prior to this principle nothing can be  conceived, and without it no virtue can be conceived.

Prop. XXIII. Man, in so far as he is  determined to a particular action  because he has inadequate
ideas,  cannot be absolutely said to act in  obedience to virtue; he can only be  so described,
in so far as he is  determined for the action because  he understands.

Proof.- In so far as a man is determined to an action through having  inadequate ideas, he
is passive (III:i.), that is (III:Def.i., &iii.),  he does something, which cannot be perceived
solely through his essence,  that is (by IV:Def.viii.), which does not follow from his virtue.
But,  in so far as he is determined for an action because he understands, he  is active; that
is, he does something, which is perceived through his  essence alone, or which adequately follows
from his virtue. Q.E.D.

Prop. XXIV. To act absolutely in obedience  to virtue is in us the same thing as to act,  to
live, or to preserve one's being (these  three terms are identical in meaning) in  accordance
with the dictates of reason on the  basis of seeking what is useful to one's self.

