Numerous other callers followed, and by all it was agreed that the family was a decided acquisition;
a pity perhaps that there was not a Mrs Dawson and a few more young people to fill the roomy
old house and add liveliness to the various parties and social gatherings among the gentry.
A younger man than the colonel would undoubtedly have been more to the general taste, especially
as it was soon found that the family at Park House neither accepted nor gave dinner invitations,
nor indeed invitations to any gatherings except quiet afternoon friendly meetings, where intercourse
with a few neighbours could be enjoyed without mixing with the gaieties of the fashionable world.

So good society shrugged its shoulders, and raised its eyebrows, and regretted that the colonel,
who doubtless was a good man, should have taken up such strict and strange notions.  However,
people must please themselves; and so it came to pass that the family at Riverton Park was
soon left pretty much to itself, just exchanging civil calls now and then with the principal
neighbours, and being left out of the circle of fashionable intimacy.

Three families, however, kept up a closer acquaintance, which ripened, more or less, into friendship.
About a mile and a half from the Park, on the side that was farthest from Franchope, lived
Mr Arthur Wilder, a gentleman of independent means, with a wife, a grown-up son, and three
daughters.  Horace Jackson was soon on the most intimate terms with young Wilder, and with
his sisters, who had the reputation of being the most earnest workers in all good and benevolent
schemes, so that in them the clergyman of their parish had the benefit of three additional
right hands; while their parents and brother gave time, money, and influence to many a good
cause and useful institution.

Adjoining the Riverton estate, in the direction of Franchope, was, as has been already stated,
the property of the elderly Miss Stansfield, whose niece, Mary, has been introduced to our
readers.  The old lady was an early caller on the colonel's family, having made a special effort
to rouse herself to pay the call, as she rarely left her own grounds.  She at once took to
Colonel Dawson; and, whether or no the liking was returned on his part, he frequently visited
his infirm neighbour, and would spend many a quiet hour with her, to her great satisfaction.
The old lady was one who wished to do good, and did it, but not graciously. So she had won
respect and a good name among her dependants, but not love.  The world called her selfish,
but the world was wrong.  She was self-absorbed, but not selfish in the ordinary sense of the
term.  She acted upon principle of the highest kind; her religion was a reality, but she had
been used ever to have her own way, and could not brook thwarting or contradiction; while her
ailments and infirmities had clustered her thoughts too much round herself, and had generated
a bitterness in her manner and speech, which made the lot of her niece, who was her constant
companion, a very trying one.

To the north of Riverton Park was the estate of Lady Willerly.  Her ladyship was one of those
impetuous characters who are never content unless they are taking castles by storm; she must
use a hatchet where a penknife would answer equally well or better.  She was a widow, and dwelt
with her only child Grace, a grown-up daughter, in her fine old family mansion, in the midst
of her tenants and the poor, who lived in a state of chronic alarm lest she should be coming
down upon them with some new and vigorous alteration or improvement.  Her daughter was in some
respects like her mother, as full of energy, but with a little more discretion; bright as a
sunbeam, and honest as the day; abounding also in good works.  Such were the three families
who maintained an intimacy with Colonel Dawson, when the rest of the neighbouring gentry dropped
off into ordinary acquaintances.

CHAPTER THREE.

"THE NEW SCHOOL."

When the family had occupied Park House about four months, a great deal of curiosity and excitement
was felt by the inhabitants of Bridgepath, the little hamlet of five hundred persons in the
rear of Riverton Park, in consequence of sundry cart-loads of bricks, stone, and lime being
deposited on a field which was situated a few yards from the principal beer-shop.  The colonel
was going to build, it seemed,--but what? Possibly a full-grown public-house.  Well, that would
be a very questionable improvement.  Was it to be a school, or a reading-room?

There was a school already, held in the parlour of the blacksmith's cottage, where a master
attended on week-days, weather permitting, and imparted as much of the three R's as the children,
whose parents thought it worth while to send them, could be induced to acquire under the pressure
of a moderate amount of persuasion and an immoderate amount of castigation.

The master came in a pony-cart from Franchope, and returned in the same the moment the afternoon
school broke up, so that his scholars had ample opportunity, when he was fairly gone, to settle
any little disputes which might have arisen during school hours by vigorous fights on the open
green, the combatants being usually encouraged to prolong their encounters to the utmost by
the cheers of the men who gathered round them out of the neighbouring beer-shops.

As for religious instruction, the master, it is true, made his scholars read a portion of the
Scriptures twice a week, and learn a few verses. But they would have been almost better without
this; for the hard, matter-of-fact way in which he dealt with the Holy Book and its teachings
would make the children rather hate than love their Bible lesson.

And what was done for the improvement, mental or spiritual, of the grown-up people?  Nothing.
Neither church nor chapel existed in the place.  A few old and middle-aged people walked occasionally
to the nearest place of worship, some two miles off; but nine-tenths of the villagers went
nowhere on a Sunday--that is to say, nowhere where they could hear anything to do them good,
though they were ready enough to leave their homes on the Sabbath to congregate where they
could drink and game together, and sing profane and immoral songs.

So Bridgepath was rightly called "a lost place;" and indeed it had been "lost" for so many
years, that there seemed scarcely the remotest prospect of its being "found" by any one disposed
to do it good. However, even in this dark spot there was a corner from which there shone a
little flickering light.  John Price and his family tenanted a tolerably roomy cottage at the
entrance to the village, close to the horse-pond.  The poor man had seen better days, having
acted as steward to the young squire from the time he came into the property till he disappeared
with his infant son and an old nurse who had lived for nearly two generations on the Riverton
estate.  Poor John had served the squire's father also as steward, and loved the young master
as if he had been his own child; and it was known that, when ruin fell on the young man, the
poor steward was dragged down also to poverty, having been somehow or other involved in his
employer's ruin.  But never did John Price utter a word that would throw light on this subject
to anyone outside his own family.  All he would let people know was, that the squire had left
him his cottage rent-free for his life,--which was, indeed, all that the master had to leave
his faithful servant.

The worthy man had struggled hard to keep himself and his family; but now he was bed-ridden,
and had been so for some five or six years past. However, he had a patient wife, who made the
most and best of a very little, and loving children, some of them in service, who helped him
through.  And he found a measure of peace in studying his old, well-worn Bible, though he read
it as yet but ignorantly.  Still, what light he had he strove to impart to those of the villagers
who came to sit and condole with him; while his wife, and an unmarried daughter who lived at
home, both deploring the wickedness of Bridgepath, tried to throw in a word of scriptural truth
now and then, for the sake of instructing and improving their heathenish neighbours.

It may be well imagined, then, with what interest all the villagers, but especially the Prices,
including John himself, as he was propped up in bed and gazed through the casement, marked
the numerous carts bringing building materials of all kinds to the village.  All doubts on
the subject, however, were soon brought to an end by a call from the colonel at John's house
in the early part of November.  After a few kind inquiries about his health and family, Colonel
Dawson informed him that he was going to build at once a school and master's house in Bridgepath,
with a reading-room attached to it, and to place there a married man of thorough Christian
principles; one who would not only look after the ordinary teaching of the children, but would
also, under the superintendence of the vicar, conduct a simple religious service on Sundays
for the instruction of the villagers.

Bridgepath had from time immemorial been under the special supervision of the proprietors of
Riverton Park, the whole hamlet being a portion of the property.  The parish to which it belonged
was extensive, and the parish church some five miles distant, Bridgepath being just on the
borders of the next parish, in which parish the Park itself was situated.  So, in former days,
the chaplain at the house used to look after the people of the hamlet in a good-natured sort
of way, by taking food and clothing to the sick and destitute, and saying a kind word, and
giving a little wholesome advice, where he thought they were needed. But being himself unhappily
possessed of but little light, he was unable to impart much to others, and the spiritual destitution
of poor Bridgepath never seemed to occur to his mind at all.  But now, for the last twenty
years, neither squire nor chaplain had resided at Riverton; so that a very occasional visit
from the vicar--who had more on his hands nearer home than he could well accomplish, and who,
with others, was living in constant expectation of some one coming to the property and bringing
about a change--was all that had been done directly for the scriptural instruction and eternal
welfare of the benighted inhabitants of Bridgepath.

Now, however, a mighty change was coming, and the dwellers in the hamlet were supposed to be
highly delighted, as a matter of course, with the prospect.  And, certainly, the hearts of
old John Price and his wife and daughter did rejoice; but not so the hearts of most of the
inhabitants, for they were thoroughly conscious that much of the goings on in their village
would not bear looking into by those who feared God and respected human law.  Bridgepath had
been now for a good many years a privileged place in the eyes of poachers, gamblers, and Sabbath-
breakers, where the devil's active servants could hold their festivals, especially on the Lord's
day, without fear of interruption from policeman or preacher.  And the women were as bad as
the men; they "loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil."  So the new
school and reading-room arose amidst the sneers and loudly- expressed disgust of the majority
of the population; the proprietors of the beer-shops being specially bitter in their denunciations
of this uncalled-for innovation on the good old times and habits, so long the favoured lot
of a primitive and unsophisticated people, who had been quite content when left to their own
devices, and could do perfectly well without these new-fashioned schemes, if only good people
would just let them alone.  The good people, however, saw the matter in a different light;
and so, spite of all the grumbling and outspoken dissatisfaction, the buildings were completed
in the spring, and the new schoolmaster and his wife took up their abode in Bridgepath.

Colonel Dawson had chosen his man carefully, and duly warned him that he would find his post
at first no bed of roses.  To which the master replied that he was not afraid of encountering
his share of thorns; and that he doubted not but that with prayer, patience, and perseverance,
there would be both flowers and fruit in Bridgepath in due time.  As for opposition, he rather
enjoyed a little of it, and trusted to be enabled to live it down.  The colonel was satisfied,
for he knew that he had chosen a man who had already proved himself to be no mere talker. 
So Bridgepath looked on in sulky wonder; but soon was constrained to acknowledge that, in their
new schoolmaster, the right man had been put into the right place.

And now the colonel was very anxious to get the help of some earnest- hearted Christian lady,
who would visit the sick and needy in the neglected hamlet, carrying with her Christ in her
heart and on her lips; for his sister was too old to undertake such a work.  His thoughts turned
to Mary Stansfield.  He would go and have a talk with the old lady her aunt about it.

CHAPTER FOUR.

WHAT IS UNSELFISHNESS?

Colonel Dawson took a deep interest both in Miss Stansfield and her niece.  He understood them
both, and pitied them both, but for very different reasons.  He pitied the old lady because
she was throwing away her own happiness and crippling her own usefulness.  He pitied her because
she was not what she might so easily have been; because she was storing up vinegar where she
might have gathered honey; and was one of those of whom Dr South says that "they tell the truth,
but tell it with the tongue of a viper."  He pitied Mary Stansfield, but with a pity mingled
with profound respect and admiration.  He pitied her that she should have to bear those daily
raspings of the spirit which her aunt, half unconsciously, perpetually inflicted on her.  And
yet he could not altogether regret the discipline, when he marked how the trial was daily burnishing
the fine gold of her character.  Still, he pitied both, and was a frequent visitor at Morewood
Court, partly because he marked how few were the friends who cared to stay at the house, and,
more still, because he hoped to be of use in lightening the burden of both aunt and niece.

Colonel Dawson was one of those who love "working in the shade."  Not that he was ashamed or
afraid of working in the light, but he was content to pursue the less attractive and less ornamental
paths of usefulness, which few comparatively cared to follow.  And so he had set himself resolutely
and prayerfully to the task of rearranging the character of one who, he was persuaded, was
capable and desirous of doing good and great things, could she only be got to hold herself
at arm's-length from herself for a little while, and see herself in the glass of God's Word,
and as others saw her.  He felt sure that there was good, practical sense enough in her mind,
and grace enough in her heart, to make her yield to conviction when he should draw her on to
see and acknowledge a better way; and then he knew that, when she should have been drawn out
of the old self into a better self, she would duly appreciate and love her long-suffering niece.
But he was well aware that the old self would not surrender its throne without a severe struggle,
and he was therefore not surprised to find the old lady's bitterness rather increase than diminish
as through their conversations she was learning to become more and more dissatisfied with herself.

Her poor niece had to bear in consequence the burden of an increased irritability in her aunt's
addresses to her.  But she was greatly cheered when the colonel took an opportunity of seeing
her alone, and assuring her that, spite of appearances to the contrary, the clouds were beginning
to break, and that light and peace would shortly follow.

It was now the month of June; the school and reading-room at Bridgepath had got fairly established;
the growlers and grumblers had nearly all of them subsided; and many long-benighted souls were
receiving light with gladness.

"Pray excuse my calling so early," said the colonel, as he took his seat beside the elder Miss
Stansfield, on a bright sunny morning.  The drawing-room window was open, and the ladies were
seated on either side of it--the aunt half reclining on an easy-chair, the other occupying
a low stool, with the open Bible from which she had been reading aloud on her lap.

Miss Stansfield received her visitor very cordially, but it was plain that the reading of the
Holy Book had not imparted any sunshine to her spirit, and there were traces of recent tears
in her niece's eyes.

The colonel saw this, but made no remark on it.  For a few moments he gazed on the lovely garden,
visible through the open window, without speaking; then he said abruptly, "I was thinking how
selfish we naturally are; those beautiful flowers reminded me of it, and seemed to reproach
me.  God gives us such a profusion of colour, and harmonises it so marvellously to delight
us; and yet how ready we are to pick out, as it were, the sombrest tints in his dealings with
us, and to keep our eyes fixed on them."

Miss Stansfield coloured slightly, and then said, after a pause, during which her niece did
not look up, but nervously moved the leaves of her Bible, "Yes, I quite agree with you, Colonel
Dawson; there is abundance of selfishness in our days, especially among young people.  They
seem to think of nothing but having their own way, and seldom condescend to admit that those
who have been brought up in less enlightened days can have gained any wisdom by experience."

"Ah!  I dare say," replied the other; "I've no doubt that young people, many of them at least,
have a large share of this very unlovable quality.  Perhaps we have all of us more of it than
we should like to admit to ourselves.  But now, to tell the truth, I am on the look-out for
one or two unselfish people;--can either of you, my dear friends, help me to find them?"

"I think you will search in vain in this neighbourhood," said the old lady dryly.

"Nay, my dear Miss Stansfield, are you not a little uncharitable? Surely you can point me to
some who love doing good, and forget themselves in doing it."

"I can say `Yes' to the first but not to the last part of your question," was the reply.  "There
are plenty who love doing good, according to the popular estimate of goodness; but they love
still more to be known and praised as the doer of it."

"Well," rejoined her visitor, "granting this in a measure, I should still like to know of some
of these popular good-doers.  We must make considerable allowance for human frailty.  Perhaps
I shall be able to pick out a real jewel, where you have believed them to be only coloured
glass and tinsel."

"I fear not, Colonel Dawson.  However, I will mention a few of what I believe to be but counterfeit
gems.  There are the Wilders, for instance.  Those girls are always doing good, and their brother
too. You have only to look into the local papers to see what a broad stream of good works is
perpetually flowing from that family.  What with ecclesiastical decorations, Sunday-school
and day-school fetes, dancing at charity balls, managing coal and clothing clubs, and a hundred
other things in which the world and the Church get their alternate share pretty evenly, that
family is a perfect pattern of good deeds for everybody to look at,--like the children's samplers,
which their mothers point to with so much pride, as they hang up framed in their cottages."

The colonel looked grave, and said, "Then you do not consider that there are likely to be any
unselfish workers in the Wilder family?"

"You had better ask my niece, colonel.  She will give you an unprejudiced opinion."

The other looked towards the younger lady, and said, "I am asking now in confidence, and with
an object, not from mere idle curiosity, far less from any wish to pick holes in the characters
and conduct of any of my neighbours.  So, Miss Mary, kindly give me your opinion."

Thus appealed to, the younger lady replied, but evidently with much reluctance, "I fear that
my aunt is right in her judgment of the Wilders.  I dare not recommend them to you as likely
to prove, in the truest sense, unselfish workers.  They are very kind and good-natured, and
no one can help liking them; but--" and she hesitated.

"I understand you," said the colonel; "they would not come up to my standard, you think?"

"I fear not; but then I should be sorry to judge them harshly, only you asked my honest opinion."

"Oh, speak out, my dear, speak out," said her aunt; "they are but afflicted with the epidemic
which has attacked all ranks in our day. Thus, where will you find a really unselfish servant
nowadays?  The old- fashioned domestics who would live a generation in a family, mourn over
an accidental breakage committed once in a quarter of a century, and count their employer's
interest as their own, are creatures entirely of the past.  And as with maid and man, so with
mistress and master, old or young.  `What am I to get as an equivalent if I do this or that?'
seems the prevailing thought now with workers of every kind."

"Ah yes," said the colonel thoughtfully, "there is too much truth in what you say; only, in
the darkest night we may detect a few stars, and some very bright ones too, if we will only
look for them.  And I am looking for stars now, but I shall be quite content to get one or
two of the second or third magnitude."

"I'm afraid you'll hardly be able to find any in this neighbourhood, for the clouds," said
the old lady, with a smile, in which the bitter prevailed over the sweet.

"Nay, nay, my dear friend," cried the colonel cheerily, "don't let us talk about clouds this
lovely June morning.  I fear, however, that I must not look for what I want among the Wilders.
I can readily understand that they might be unwilling to work in the shade, where there would
be nothing to repay them except the smile of Him who will not let even the cup of cold water
rightly given go unrewarded.  What do you say to Lady Willerly's daughter?  I have heard great
things of her. They tell me she is one of the most unselfish creatures under the sun."

"Ay," said the old lady dryly, "when the sun shines on her; but you want workers in the shade.
Grace Willerly will not do for that."

"You think not?  Well, let me tell you what I have heard of her.  Those who know her well say
that she never seems so happy as when she is doing good and making others happy.  Her mother
calls her `my sunbeam.'  She seems to take a pleasure in thwarting herself in order to gratify
others.  If she wants to go out for a walk, and some tiresome visitor comes in, she will laugh,
and say, `I was just wanting some one to come and keep me in, for I dare say I should have
caught cold if I had gone out just now.'  Or it may be quite the other way.  She is just sitting
down to draw or play, and some one calls and asks her to take a walk, and she at once leaves
her occupation, jumps up, and says, `Ah, how nice this is!  I ought to take exercise, but felt
disinclined; and you've come at the very right time, to entice me out.'  In fact, her greatest
pleasure seems to be to cross her own will and inclinations, that she may do what will give
pleasure to others.  Such is the picture that intimate friends have drawn of her; and certainly
it is a very charming one.  What say you to it, Miss Mary?"

"It is very beautiful, Colonel Dawson--" and she hesitated.

"Ah, then, too highly coloured, I suppose you would say.  Give me your candid opinion."

"It is very difficult to say what I feel," replied Mary Stansfield, "without seeming to lay
myself open to the charge of censoriousness or captiousness; and yet I cannot help seeing a
shade of unreality, and even insincerity, on that bright and beautiful character,--that it
wants, in fact, one essential element of genuine unselfishness."

"Of course it does," broke in the elder lady; "you mean that it is not free from self-consciousness
and, more or less, of parade."

"I fear so, dear aunt.  I cannot help thinking that, as some one has said of faith, so it may
be said of true unselfishness, that `it is colourless like water,'--it makes no show nor assertion
of itself.  But dear Grace Willerly is a sterling character for all that."

"So then," said the colonel, after a pause, "I must give up in despair, must I?  No, that will
never do.  Now, I am wanting a quiet worker in the shade for poor Bridgepath,--some young lady
friend who has a little leisure time, and will go now and then and read in the cottages there
the Word of God, and give some loving counsel to those who need it so much.  I have the good
vicar's full consent and approbation; he will gladly welcome any such helper as I may find
for the post.  It will be a true labour of love; and, without any more words I am come to ask
Miss Stansfield if she will spare her niece for the good work, and Miss Mary if she will be
willing to undertake it."

The reply of the two ladies, who were equally taken by surprise, was in each case made in a
single word, and that word very characteristic. "Impossible!" cried the old lady.  "Me!" exclaimed
the younger one.

"Nay, not impossible, dear friend," said the colonel gently.  "I want this service of love
only once a week for an hour or two, and I am sure you can spare my young friend for that time.--And
as for yourself, Miss Mary, I believe, from what I have seen of you, that you are just fitted
for the work; and I am sure that you are too sincere to excuse yourself on the ground of an
unfitness which you do not really feel."

"And what am I to do?" asked the old lady bitterly.

"Exercise a little of this true unselfishness, dear friend.  You see there are many ways in
which you too can show true unselfishness in the cause of that Master whom I know you truly
love, though he has laid you aside from much active work for him."

Miss Stansfield did not answer for a time; she looked pained, but the bitterness had passed
away from her countenance.  Evading an immediate reply, she said, "I don't understand these
many ways in which I can show unselfishness, Colonel Dawson."

"Do you not?  May I mention some?"

"Yes, do," she replied earnestly.

"Well, bear with me then, while I make one or two suggestions which our late conversations
have been leading up to.  I will imagine myself in your place, and looking out to see where
I may best put the stamp of the Cross on my life.  I am wishing to do good, I am trying to
do good: but may it not be that my benevolence is sometimes rendered so ungraciously that it
gives more pain than pleasure to those who receive it?  Ah, then, I will put the stamp of the
Cross here.  I will try, not only to do good, but to do it graciously.  Perhaps, again, I am
looking upon suffering and natural infirmity of temper as an excuse for harshness and hard
judgment, and not as a call to exercise charity, patience, and forbearance.  Then let me put
the stamp of the Cross here also.  Or, once more, perhaps I am in the habit of looking for
the weeds rather than the flowers, for the shadows rather than the sunshine, in my lot. Well,
then, here again I may place the stamp of the Cross, by exercising quiet, unostentatious self-denial
and unselfishness before the loving eyes of him who has made us for himself, and redeemed us
that we might in all things glorify him.  Might I not thus, dear friend, exhibit true unselfishness,
and at the same time brighten my own heart, and also the hearts of others?"

No one spoke for a few moments, but the old lady bowed her head upon her hands and wept silently.
Then she stretched out a hand to the colonel, without raising her head, and said in a half-stifled
whisper, "Thank you, thank you, faithful friend.  Mary shall undertake the post if she will."

Ah yes!  Light had shone into that clouded spirit; the shadows were passing away.  Mary Stansfield
knelt her down by the old lady's side, and in one loving, tearful embrace, such as they had
never known before, the icy barrier that had so long chilled that young and loving heart was
melted, and there was peace.

The colonel was more than satisfied.  He knew, as he quietly stole out of the room without
a further word, that he had been privileged to gain that morning two like-minded workers in
the shade, instead of one.

CHAPTER FIVE.

THE STAMP OF THE CROSS.

A few days after Colonel Dawson's happy interview with Miss Stansfield and her niece, a fete
was given by the Wilders at their residence, Holly House, partly for the entertainment of the
children who belonged to the Sunday-school classes taught by the Misses Wilder, and partly
also as a means of gathering together as many neighbouring friends and acquaintances as might
be at leisure to come.

Colonel Dawson and his nephew had received a pressing invitation; and also Lady Willerly and
her daughter, though the latter was hardly expected, as it was known how many engagements she
had to tie her at home.  The invitation, however, decided Grace Willerly to write at once and
say that, although she had a very pressing engagement, she would arrange to put it off, as
she felt that a good game of play with the dear children on the lawn at Holly House would be
just the very thing she wanted to do her good and freshen her up.

So a large party assembled on the day appointed, and among them the colonel and his nephew--the
former because he wished to keep on friendly terms with his neighbours, though he anticipated
but little pleasure from this particular gathering.  Besides this, he was a little anxious
to see to what extent the intimacy between the young Wilders and his nephew had gone; for he
had something of a misgiving that the young man might be getting entangled in the attractions
of one of the young ladies, and this was the last thing he would have desired for him.  As
for Horace Jackson himself, his impression concerning the younger members of the Wilder family
was that they were decidedly "jolly."  He had not yet consciously arrived at a warmer stage
of feeling in regard to any one of them, and his estimate was tolerably correct.  Somebody
had characterised the young ladies of Holly House as "dashing girls," and such they certainly were.

The eldest was now about one and twenty, a fine manly young woman, with a loud voice, and very
demonstrative manners, who seemed inclined to do good in the spirit of a prize-fighter, by
attacking the evils which she sought to remedy with a masculine vigour, such as would drive
them in terror off the field.  The second daughter, Clara, was of a rather less commanding
appearance than her elder sister, but dressed and talked pretty much in the same fashion. 
The third, Millicent, would naturally have been quiet and retiring, but had constrained herself
to imitate her sisters.  She had, however, only so far succeeded as to acquire an abrupt and
off-hand style of speaking, which was calculated to shut up old-fashioned people, who had been
brought up under the impression that young ladies should belong to the feminine gender. Indeed,
when the three Misses Wilder were met on the public road in their walking attire, with natty
little hats on their heads, ulsters down to their feet, turn-down collars round their necks,
and riding- whips or walking-sticks in their hands, it would have been very difficult for an
unpractised observer to determine to what particular sex they belonged.

Their brother was proud of his sisters, and matched them admirably.  He was a kind-hearted,
outspoken, generous young man, up to anything, from a midnight spree to a special religious
service; hating everything like cant as decidedly "low," and going in for sincerity, truth,
and free- thought.  Moreover, he spent his money, or, more strictly speaking, his father's
money as well as his own, on horses, dogs, and guns, and left sundry little bills to stand
over till the poor creditors had lost both hope and patience.

It was now four o'clock, and the children were assembling for tea, after a series of games,
in which they had been joined by Grace Willerly with an unflagging energy, and been occasionally
encouraged by a kind word from Mr and Mrs Wilder and their daughters.

"What a charming sight, isn't it?" said Mrs Wilder to Colonel Dawson, as they strolled up to
the tea-tables, which had been set out under the shade of some huge elms.  "How happy the dear
children seem!"

"Yes," replied her guest; "it is indeed a pleasant sight, and I am sure we may well learn a
lesson of contentment with simple pleasures from the hearty enjoyment of these young ones.
What a pity that the world and its attractions should ever get a place in the hearts of these
or of any of us, since God has made us for purer and higher things!"

"Ah!  Very true, colonel;--but won't you come into the house?  I see our friends are gathering
in the drawing-room.  We shall find tea there; and Clara and Millicent, with Grace Willerly,
will see that their little friends want for nothing.  Oh!  Here is your nephew.--Pray, Mr Jackson,
come in with us; I am sure you will be glad of a little refreshment."

So the elder guests assembled in the drawing-room, and got through an hour of miscellaneous
gossip very creditably; at the end of which all adjourned to the garden again, and strolled
about in twos and threes till the school children were dismissed and it was time for the visitors
to take their leave.

"What a relief!" exclaimed the colonel to his nephew, as they trotted on side by side on their
ride homewards.

"Well, it was dull work, uncle, I allow," said the young man, laughing. "But these gatherings
are, I suppose, useful and necessary, if people are to keep up friendly acquaintance with one
another, and do what is civil and neighbourly."

"Yes, perhaps so," replied his uncle; "but such an afternoon is little better than bondage
and lost time--at any rate to a man of my colonial habits.  However, it has given me an opportunity
of seeing more of the young ladies at Holly House."

"And I am afraid, uncle, that you do not find them improve upon acquaintance."

"Just so, Horace; they don't suit my taste at all."

"And yet, dear uncle, with all their dash, and brusquerie, and fastness, they really are most
kind-hearted and unselfish girls."

"Kind-hearted, I allow, but I doubt their unselfishness."

"But why, uncle?  What would you have more?  They certainly don't spare themselves.  They are
here, there, and everywhere, when any good is to be done, and think nothing of spending any
amount of time and money in making other people happy."

"True, Horace, but there is a pleasurable excitement in all this which more than overbalances
any trouble it may cost, especially when the world's applause for their good deeds is thrown
into the same scale."

"But," remonstrated the young man, in rather a disturbed and anxious tone, "is not this dealing
them a little hard measure?  Where shall we find anything that will deserve the name of unselfishness,
if we weigh people's actions too rigorously?"

"Ah!  You think me severe and uncharitable, Horace.  But now, it just comes to this.  What
do the Misses Wilder and their brother (for I suppose we must take him into consideration too),
really forsake or give up in order to do good?  I don't pretend to know the private affairs
of the family generally, but certainly there are strong rumours afloat that the maxim, `Be
just before you are generous,' is not acted upon by the young people in their money concerns.
I allowed just now that they are good-natured, but good-nature is a very different thing from
unselfishness.  What personal gratification do they surrender in order to do good?  What worldly
pleasure or amusement do they deny themselves? What extravagance do they curtail?"

"I can't say much for them in that respect, certainly," replied the young man thoughtfully;
"indeed, I must frankly confess that I have heard more than once from the eldest Miss Wilder
the expression of her hope and conviction that the united good deeds of the family would be
accepted, by the world at any rate, as a sort of atonement for follies and excesses which clearly
could not be justified in themselves."

"I can well believe it, my dear nephew: but I have something much weightier to say on the subject,
and it is this.  There is manifestly one great want in all the doings of these kind-hearted
people at Holly House, which would make me at once deny the character of unselfishness to their
best deeds."

"And what is that, dear uncle?"

"The stamp of the Cross, Horace.  I know that there are plenty of crosses about them,--crosses
on their prayer-books, crosses round their necks, crosses on their writing-cases and on their
furniture; but the Cross is wanting.  In a word, they are not denying self, and seeking to
do good to others from love to that Saviour who gave up so much for them.  I know that they
are not without religion in the eyes of the world; but I cannot, I dare not believe that they
are really actuated by love to the great Master in what they may do to make others happy. 
Am I wrong, Horace?"

"No, uncle, I cannot say that you are.  Much as I like the girls on many accounts, I should
not be speaking my honest sentiments were I to say that I believed them to be doing good to
others from real Christian motives.  And yet--"

"Ah, my dear nephew, I know what you would say.  I know that the world would embrace such as
these within its elastic band as among genuine unselfish workers, though avowedly on a lower
level than that adopted by the true Christian.  But, after all, can God, the searcher of hearts,
approve of anything as being truly unselfish which does not bear the stamp of the Cross?  And
can anything of which he does not approve be a reality?"

"I suppose not," said the other reluctantly.  "Still, it is difficult not to be dazzled by
what looks like a reflection from the true Light; and difficult, too, to detect a sham where
we are willing to see a reality."

"Very difficult," replied Colonel Dawson: "and yet the world abounds in shams, and cant, and
hypocrisy.  The world commonly lays these things at the door of religious professors; but the
truth all the while is that the sham, and the cant, and the hypocrisy are really in those who
take or gain credit for a character--unselfishness, for example--which is only to be found
in true Christians, and hold themselves back from that genuine devotion, and self-sacrifice,
and coming out to Christ, without which their boasted and lauded excellences are nothing better
than a delusion and an empty name."

The young man did not reply, and the subject was dropped for the remainder of the ride home.

CHAPTER SIX.