Finally these peculiar customs brought about the punishment of a noted doctress of the Rogue
River tribe, a woman who was constantly working in this professional way, and who had found
a victim of such prominence among the Rogue Rivers that his unlooked for death brought down
on her the wrath of all.  She had made him so ill, they believed, as to bring him to death's
door notwithstanding the many ponies that had been given her to cease the incantations, and
it was the conviction of all that she had finally caused the man's death from some ulterior
and indiscernible motive.  His relatives and friends then immediately set about requiting her
with the just penalties of a perfidious breach of contract.  Their threats induced her instant
flight toward my house for the usual protection, but the enraged friends of the dead man gave
hot chase, and overtook the witch just inside the limits of the garrison, where, on the parade-ground,
in sight of the officers' quarters, and before any one could interfere, they killed her.  There
were sixteen men in pursuit of the doctress, and sixteen gun-shot wounds were found in her
body when examined by the surgeon of the post.  The killing of the woman was a flagrant and
defiant outrage committed in the teeth of the military authority, yet done so quickly that
we could not prevent it. This necessitated severe measures, both to allay the prevailing excitement
and to preclude the recurrence of such acts.  The body was cared for, and delivered to the
relatives the next day for burial, after which Captain Russell directed me to take such steps
as would put a stop to the fanatical usages that had brought about this murderous occurrence,
for it was now seen that if timely measures were not taken to repress them, similar tragedies
would surely follow.

Knowing all the men of the Rogue River tribe, and speaking fluently the Chinook tongue, which
they all understood, I went down to their village the following day, after having sent word
to the tribe that I wished to have a council with them.  The Indians all met me in council,
as I had desired, and I then told them that the men who had taken part in shooting the woman
would have to be delivered up for punishment.  They were very stiff with me at the interview,
and with all that talent for circumlocution and diplomacy with which the Indian is lifted,
endeavored to evade my demands and delay any conclusion.  But I was very positive, would hear
of no compromise whatever, and demanded that my terms be at once complied with.  No one was
with me but a sergeant of my company, named Miller, who held my horse, and as the chances of
an agreement began to grow remote, I became anxious for our safety.  The conversation waxing
hot and the Indians gathering close in around me, I unbuttoned the flap of my pistol holster,
to be ready for any emergency.  When the altercation became most bitter I put my hand to my
hip to draw my pistol, but discovered it was gone--stolen by one of the rascals surrounding
me. Finding myself unarmed, I modified my tone and manner to correspond with my helpless condition,
thus myself assuming the diplomatic side in the parley, in order to gain time.  As soon as
an opportunity offered, and I could, without too much loss of self-respect, and without damaging
my reputation among the Indians, I moved out to where the sergeant held my horse, mounted,
and crossing the Yamhill River close by, called back in Chinook from the farther bank that
"the sixteen men who killed the woman must be delivered up, and my six-shooter also." This
was responded to by contemptuous laughter, so I went back to the military post somewhat crestfallen,
and made my report of the turn affairs had taken, inwardly longing for another chance to bring
the rascally Rogue Rivers to terms.

When I had explained the situation to Captain Russell, he thought that we could not, under
any circumstances, overlook this defiant conduct of the Indians, since, unless summarily punished,
it would lead to even more serious trouble in the future.  I heartily seconded this proposition,
and gladly embracing the opportunity it offered, suggested that if he would give me another
chance, and let me have the effective force of the garrison, consisting of about fifty men,
I would chastise the Rogue Rivers without fail, and that the next day was all the time I required
to complete arrangements.  He gave me the necessary authority, and I at once set to work to
bring about a better state of discipline on the reservation, and to put an end to the practices
of the medicine men (having also in view the recovery of my six-shooter and self-respect),
by marching to the village and taking the rebellious Indians by force.

In the tribe there was an excellent woman called Tighee Mary (Tighee in Chinook means chief),
who by right of inheritance was a kind of queen of the Rogue Rivers.  Fearing that the insubordinate
conduct of the Indians would precipitate further trouble, she came early the following morning
to see me and tell me of the situation Mary informed me that she had done all in her power
to bring the Indians to reason, but without avail, and that they were determined to fight rather
than deliver up the sixteen men who had engaged in the shooting.  She also apprised me of the
fact that they had taken up a position on the Yamhill River, on the direct road between the
post and village, where, painted and armed for war, they were awaiting attack.

On this information I concluded it would be best to march to the village by a circuitous route
instead of directly, as at first intended, so I had the ferry-boat belonging to the post floated
about a mile and a half down the Yamhill River and there anchored.  At 11 o'clock that night
I marched my fifty men, out of the garrison, in a direction opposite to that of the point held
by the Indians, and soon reached the river at the ferryboat.  Here I ferried the party over
with little delay, and marched them along the side of the mountain, through underbrush and
fallen timber, until, just before daylight, I found that we were immediately in rear of the
village, and thence in rear, also, of the line occupied by the refractory Indians, who were
expecting to meet me on the direct road from the post.  Just at break of day we made a sudden
descent upon the village and took its occupants completely by surprise, even capturing the
chief of the tribe, "Sam," who was dressed in all his war toggery, fully armed and equipped,
in anticipation of a fight on the road where his comrades were in position.  I at once put
Sam under guard, giving orders to kill him instantly if the Indians fired a shot; then forming
my line on the road beyond the edge of the village, in rear of the force lying in wait for
a front attack, we moved forward.  When the hostile party realized that they were completely
cut off from the village, they came out from their stronghold on the river and took up a line
in my front, distant about sixty yards with the apparent intention of resisting to the last.

As is usual with Indians when expecting a fight, they were nearly naked, fantastically painted
with blue clay, and hideously arrayed in war bonnets.  They seemed very belligerent, brandishing
their muskets in the air, dancing on one foot, calling us ugly names, and making such other
demonstrations of hostility, that it seemed at first that nothing short of the total destruction
of the party could bring about the definite settlement that we were bent on.  Still, as it
was my desire to bring them under subjection without loss of life, if possible, I determined
to see what result would follow when they learned that their chief was at our mercy.  So, sending
Sam under guard to the front, where he could be seen, informing them that he would be immediately
shot if they fired upon us, and aided by the cries and lamentations of the women of the village,
who deprecated any hostile action by either party, I soon procured a parley.

The insubordinate Indians were under command of "Joe," Sam's brother, who at last sent me word
that he wanted to see me, and we met between our, respective lines.  I talked kindly to him,
but was firm in my demand that the men who killed the woman must be given up and my six-shooter
returned.  His reply was he did not think it could be done, but he would consult his people.
After the consultation, he returned and notified me that fifteen would surrender and the six-shooter
would be restored, and further, that we could kill the sixteenth man, since the tribe wished
to get rid of him anyhow, adding that he was a bad Indian, whose bullet no doubt had given
the woman her death wound.  He said that if I assented to this arrangement, he would require
all of his people except the objectionable man to run to the right of his line at a preconcerted
signal.  The bad Indian would be ordered to stand fast on the extreme left, and we could open
fire on him as his comrades fell away to the right.  I agreed to the proposition, and gave
Joe fifteen minutes to execute his part of it. We then returned to our respective forces, and
a few minutes later the fifteen ran to the right flank as agreed upon, and we opened fire on
the one Indian left standing alone, bringing him down in his tracks severely wounded by a shot
through the shoulder.

While all this was going on, the other bands of the reservation, several thousand strong, had
occupied the surrounding hills for the purpose of witnessing the fight, for as the Rogue Rivers
had been bragging for some time that they could whip the soldiers, these other Indians had
come out to see it done.  The result, however, disappointed the spectators, and the Rogue Rivers
naturally lost caste.  The fifteen men now came in and laid down their arms (including my six-shooter)
in front of us as agreed, but I compelled them to take the surrendered guns up again and carry
them to the post, where they were deposited in the block-house for future security.  The prisoners
were ironed with ball and chain, and made to work at the post until their rebellious spirit
was broken; and the wounded man was correspondingly punished after he had fully recovered.
An investigation as to why this man had been selected as the offering by which Joe and his
companions expected to gain immunity, showed that the fellow was really a most worthless character,
whose death even would have been a benefit to the tribe. Thus it seemed that they had two purposes
in view--the one to propitiate me and get good terms, the other to rid themselves of a vagabond
member of the tribe.

The punishment of these sixteen Indians by ball and chain ended all trouble with the Rogue
River tribe.  The, disturbances arising from the incantations of the doctors and doctresses,
and the practice of killing horses and burning all worldly property on the graves of those
who died, were completely suppressed, and we made with little effort a great stride toward
the civilization of these crude and superstitious people, for they now began to recognize the
power of the Government.  In their management afterward a course of justice and mild force
was adopted, and unvaryingly applied.  They were compelled to cultivate their land, to attend
church, and to send their children to school.  When I saw them, fifteen years later, transformed
into industrious and substantial farmers, with neat houses, fine cattle, wagons and horses,
carrying their grain, eggs, and butter to market and bringing home flour, coffee, sugar, and
calico in return, I found abundant confirmation of my early opinion that the most effectual
measures for lifting them from a state of barbarism would be a practical supervision at the
outset, coupled with a firm control and mild discipline.

In all that was done for these Indians Captain Russell's judgment and sound, practical ideas
were the inspiration.  His true manliness, honest and just methods, together with the warm-hearted
interest he took in all that pertained to matters of duty to his Government, could not have
produced other than the best results, in what position soever he might have been placed.  As
all the lovable traits of his character were constantly manifested, I became most deeply attached
to him, and until the day of his death in 1864, on the battle-field of Opequan, in front of
Winchester, while gallantly leading his division under my command, my esteem and affection
were sustained and intensified by the same strong bonds that drew me to him in these early
days in Oregon.

After the events just narrated I continued on duty at the post of Yamhill, experiencing the
usual routine of garrison life without any incidents of much interest, down to the breaking
out of the war of the rebellion in April, 1861.  The news of the firing on Fort Sumter brought
us an excitement which overshadowed all else, and though we had no officers at the post who
sympathized with the rebellion, there were several in our regiment--the Fourth Infantry--who
did, and we were considerably exercised as to the course they might pursue, but naturally far
more so concerning the disposition that would be made of the regiment during the conflict.

In due time orders came for the regiment to go East, and my company went off, leaving me, however--a
second lieutenant--in command of the post until I should be relieved by Captain James J. Archer,
of the Ninth Infantry, whose company was to take the place of the old garrison.  Captain Archer,
with his company of the Ninth, arrived shortly after, but I had been notified that he intended
to go South, and his conduct was such after reaching the post that I would not turn over the
command to him for fear he might commit some rebellious act.  Thus a more prolonged detention
occurred than I had at first anticipated.  Finally the news came that he had tendered his resignation
and been granted a leave of absence for sixty days.  On July 17 he took his departure, but
I continued in command till September 1, when Captain Philip A. Owen, of the Ninth Infantry,
arrived and, taking charge, gave me my release.

From the day we received the news of the firing on Sumter until I started East, about the first
of September, 1861, I was deeply solicitous as to the course of events, and though I felt confident
that in the end the just cause of the Government must triumph, yet the thoroughly crystallized
organization which the Southern Confederacy quickly exhibited disquieted me very much, for
it alone was evidence that the Southern leaders had long anticipated the struggle and prepared
for it.  It was very difficult to obtain direct intelligence of the progress of the war.  Most
of the time we were in the depths of ignorance as to the true condition of affairs, and this
tended to increase our anxiety.  Then, too, the accounts of the conflicts that had taken place
were greatly exaggerated by the Eastern papers, and lost nothing in transition.  The news came
by the pony express across the Plains to San Francisco, where it was still further magnified
in republishing, and gained somewhat in Southern bias.  I remember well that when the first
reports reached us of, the battle of Bull Run--that sanguinary engagement--it was stated that
each side had lost forty thousand men in killed and wounded, and none were reported missing
nor as having run away.  Week by week these losses grew less, until they finally shrunk into
the hundreds, but the vivid descriptions of the gory conflict were not toned down during the
whole summer.

We received our mail at Yamhill only once a week, and then had to bring it from Portland, Oregon,
by express.  On the day of the week that our courier, or messenger, was expected back from
Portland, I would go out early in the morning to a commanding point above the post, from which
I could see a long distance down the road as it ran through the valley of the Yamhill, and
there I would watch with anxiety for his coming, longing for good news; for, isolated as I
had been through years spent in the wilderness, my patriotism was untainted by politics, nor
had it been disturbed by any discussion of the questions out of which the war grew, and I hoped
for the success of the Government above all other considerations.  I believe I was also uninfluenced
by any thoughts of the promotion that might result to me from the conflict, but, out of a sincere
desire to contribute as much as I could to the preservation of the Union, I earnestly wished
to be at the seat of war, and feared it might end before I could get East.  In no sense did
I anticipate what was to happen to me afterward, nor that I was to gain any distinction from
it.  I was ready to do my duty to the best of my ability wherever I might be called, and I
was young, healthy, insensible to fatigue, and desired opportunity, but high rank was so distant
in our service that not a dream of its attainment had flitted through my brain.

During the period running from January to September, 1861, in consequence of resignations and
the addition of some new regiments to the regular army, I had passed through the grade of first
lieutenant and reached that of captain in the Thirteenth United States Infantry, of which General
W. T. Sherman had recently been made the colonel. When relieved from further duty at Yamhill
by Captain Owen, I left for the Atlantic coast to join my new regiment.  A two days' ride brought
me down to Portland, whence I sailed to San Franciso, and at that city took passage by steamer
for New York via the Isthmus of Panama, in company with a number of officers who were coming
East under circumstances like my own.

At this time California was much agitated--on the question of secession, and the secession
element was so strong that considerable apprehension was felt by the Union people lest the
State might be carried into the Confederacy.  As a consequence great distrust existed in all
quarters, and the loyal passengers on the steamer, not knowing what might occur during our
voyage, prepared to meet emergencies by thoroughly organizing to frustrate any attempt that
might possibly be made to carry us into some Southern port after we should leave Aspinwall.
However, our fears proved groundless; at all events, no such attempt was made, and we reached
New York in safety in November, 1861.  A day or two in New York sufficed to replenish a most
meagre wardrobe, and I then started West to join my new regiment, stopping a day and a night
at the home of my parents in Ohio, where I had not been since I journeyed from Texas for the
Pacific coast.  The headquarters of my regiment were at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri, to which
point I proceeded with no further delay except a stay in the city of St. Louis long enough
to pay my respects to General H. W. Halleck.

CHAPTER VIII.

AUDITING ACCOUNTS--CHIEF QUARTERMASTER AND COMMISSARY OF THE ARMY OF SOUTHWEST MISSOURI--PREPARING
FOR THE PEA RIDGE CAMPAIGN--A DIFFERENCE WITH GENERAL CURTIS--ORDERED TO THE FRONT--APPOINTED
A COLONEL.

Some days after I had reached the headquarters of my regiment near St. Louis, General Halleck
sent for me, and when I reported he informed me that there existed a great deal of confusion
regarding the accounts of some of the disbursing officers in his department, whose management
of its fiscal affairs under his predecessor, General John C. Fremont, had been very loose;
and as the chaotic condition of things could be relieved only by auditing these accounts, he
therefore had determined to create a board of officers for the purpose, and intended to make
me president of it.  The various transactions in question covered a wide field, for the department
embraced the States of Missouri, Iowa, Minnesota, Illinois, Arkansas, and all of Kentucky west
of the Cumberland River.

The duty was not distasteful, and I felt that I was qualified to undertake it, for the accounts
to be audited belonged exclusively to the Quartermaster and Subsistence departments, and by
recent experience I had become familiar with the class of papers that pertained to those branches
of the army.  Indeed, it was my familiarity with such transactions, returns, etc., that probably
caused my selection as president of the board.

I entered upon the work forthwith, and continued at it until the 26th of December, 1861.  At
that date I was relieved from the auditing board and assigned to duty as Chief Commissary of
the Army of Southwest Missouri, commanded by General Samuel R. Curtis.  This army was then
organizing at Rolla, Missouri, for the Pea Ridge campaign, its strength throughout the campaign
being in the aggregate about fifteen thousand men.

As soon as I received information of my selection for this position, I went to General Halleck
and requested him to assign me as Chief Quartermaster also.  He was reluctant to do so, saying
that I could not perform both duties, but I soon convinced him that I could do both better
than the one, for I reminded him that as Chief Quartermaster I should control the transportation,
and thus obviate all possible chances of discord between the two staff departments; a condition
which I deemed essential to success, especially as it was intended that Curtis's army should
mainly subsist on the country. This argument impressed Halleck, and becoming convinced, he
promptly issued the order making me Chief Quartermaster and Chief Commissary of Subsistence
of the Army of Southwest Missouri, and I started for Rolla to enter upon the work assigned me.

Having reported to General Curtis, I quickly learned that his system of supply was very defective,
and the transportation without proper organization, some of the regiments having forty to fifty
wagon each, and others only three or four.  I labored day and night to remedy these and other
defects, and with the help of Captain Michael P. Small, of the Subsistence Department, who
was an invaluable assistant, soon brought things into shape, putting the transportation in
good working order, giving each regiment its proper quota of wagons, and turning the surplus
into the general supply trains of the army.  In accomplishing this I was several times on the
verge of personal conflict with irate regimental commanders, but Colonel G. M. Dodge so greatly
sustained me with General Curtis by strong moral support, and by such efficient details from
his regiment--the Fourth Iowa Volunteer Infantry--that I still bear him and it great affection
and lasting gratitude.

On January 26, 1862, General Curtis's army began its march from Rolla to Springfield, Missouri,
by way of Lebanon.  The roads were deep with mud, and so badly cut up that the supply trains
in moving labored under the most serious difficulties, and were greatly embarrassed by swollen
streams.  Under these circumstances many delays occurred, and when we arrived at Lebanon nearly
all the supplies with which we had started had been consumed, and the work of feeding the troops
off the country had to begin at that point.  To get flour, wheat had to be taken from the stacks,
threshed, and sent to the mills to be ground.  Wheat being scarce in this region, corn as a
substitute had to be converted into meal by the same laborious process.  In addition, beef
cattle had to be secured for the meat ration.

The army set out in pursuit of Price, but I was left at Springfield to gather supplies from
the surrounding country, by the same means that had been used at Lebanon, and send them forward.
To succeed in this useful and necessary duty required much hard work.  To procure the grain
and to run the mills in the country, replacing the machinery where parts had been carried away,
or changing the principle and running the mills on some different plan when necessary, and
finally forward the product to the army, made a task that taxed the energy of all engaged in
it.  Yet, having at command a very skillful corps of millwrights, machinists, and millers,
detailed principally from the Fourth Iowa and Thirty-sixth Illinois volunteer regiments, we
soon got matters in shape, and were able to send such large quantities of flour and meal to
the front, that only the bacon and small parts of the ration had to be brought forward from
our depot at Rolla.  When things were well systematized, I went forward myself to expedite
the delivery of supplies, and joined the army at Cross Hollows, just south of Pea Ridge.

Finding everything working well at Cross Hollows, I returned to Springfield in a few days to
continue the labor of collecting supplies.  On my way back I put the mills at Cassville in
good order to grind the grain in that vicinity, and perfected there a plan for the general
supply from the neighboring district of both the men and animals of the army, so that there
should, be no chance of a failure of the campaign from bad roads or disaster to my trains.
Springfield thus became the centre of the entire supply section.

Just after my return to Springfield the battle of Pea Ridge was fought.  The success of the
Union troops in this battle was considerable, and while not of sufficient magnitude to affect
the general cause materially, it was decisive as to that particular campaign, and resulted
in driving all organized Confederate forces out of the State of Missouri.  After Pea Ridge
was won, certain efforts were made to deprive Curtis of the credit due him for the victory;
but, no matter what merit belonged to individual commanders, I was always convinced that Curtis
was deserving of the highest commendation, not only for the skill displayed on the field, but
for a zeal and daring in campaign which was not often exhibited at that early period of the
war.  Especially should this credit be awarded him, when we consider the difficulties under
which he labored, how he was hampered in having to depend on a sparsely settled country for
the subsistence of his troops.  In the reports of the battle that came to Springfield, much
glory was claimed for some other general officers, but as I had control of the telegraph line
from Springfield east, I detained all despatches until General Curtis had sent in his official
report.  He thus had the opportunity of communicating with his superior in advance of some
of his vain subordinates, who would have laid claim to the credit of the battle had I not thwarted
them by this summary means.

Not long afterward came the culmination of a little difference that had arisen between General
Curtis and me, brought about, I have since sometimes thought, by an assistant quartermaster
from Iowa, whom I had on duty with me at Springfield.  He coveted my place, and finally succeeded
in getting it.  He had been an unsuccessful banker in Iowa, and early in the war obtained an
appointment as assistant quartermaster of volunteers with the rank of captain.  As chief quartermaster
of the army in Missouri, there would be opportunities for the recuperation of his fortunes
which would not offer to one in a subordinate place; so to gain this position he doubtless
intrigued for it while under my eye, and Curtis was induced to give it to him as soon as I
was relieved.  His career as my successor, as well as in other capacities in which he was permitted
to act during the war, was to say the least not savory.  The war over he turned up in Chicago
as president of a bank, which he wrecked; and he finally landed in the penitentiary for stealing
a large sum of money from the United States Treasury at Washington while employed there as
a clerk.  The chances that this man's rascality would be discovered were much less when chief
of the departments of transportation and supply of an army than they afterward proved to be
in the Treasury.  I had in my possession at all times large sums of money for the needs of
the army, and among other purposes for which these funds were to be disbursed was the purchase
of horses and mules.  Certain officers and men more devoted to gain than to the performance
of duty (a few such are always to be found in armies) quickly learned this, and determined
to profit by it.  Consequently they began a regular system of stealing horses from the people
of the country and proffering them to me for purchase.  It took but a little time to discover
this roguery, and when I became satisfied of their knavery I brought it to a sudden close by
seizing the horses as captured property, branding them U. S., and refusing to pay for them.
General Curtis, misled by the misrepresentations that had been made, and without fully knowing
the circumstances, or realizing to what a base and demoralizing state of things this course
was inevitably tending, practically ordered me to make the Payments, and I refused.  The immediate
result of this disobedience was a court-martial to try me; and knowing that my usefulness in
that army was gone, no matter what the outcome of the trial might be, I asked General Halleck
to relieve me from duty with General Curtis and order me to St. Louis.  This was promptly done,
and as my connection with the Army of Southwest Missouri was thus severed before the court
could be convened, my case never came to trial.  The man referred to as being the cause of
this condition of affairs was appointed by General Curtis to succeed me.  I turned over to
the former all the funds and property for which I was responsible, also the branded horses
and mules stolen from the people of the country, requiring receipts for everything.  I heard
afterward that some of the blooded stock of southwest Missouri made its way to Iowa in an unaccountable
manner, but whether the administration of my successor was responsible for it or not I am unable
to say.

On my arrival at St. Louis I felt somewhat forlorn and disheartened at the turn affairs had
taken.  I did not know where I should be assigned, nor what I should be required to do, but
these uncertainties were dispelled in a few days by General Halleck, who, being much pressed
by the Governors of some of the Western States to disburse money in their sections, sent me
out into the Northwest with a sort of roving commission to purchase horses for the use of the
army.  I went to Madison and Racine, Wis., at which places I bought two hundred horses, which
were shipped to St. Louis.  At Chicago I bought two hundred more, and as the prices paid at
the latter point showed that Illinois was the cheapest market--it at that time producing a
surplus over home demands--I determined to make Chicago the centre of my operations.

While occupied in this way at Chicago the battle of Shiloh took place, and the desire for active
service with troops became uppermost in my thoughts, so I returned to St. Louis to see if I
could not get into the field.  General Halleck having gone down to the Shiloh battle-field,
I reported to his Assistant Adjutant-General, Colonel John C. Kelton, and told him of my anxiety
to take a hand in active field-service, adding that I did not wish to join my regiment, which
was still organizing and recruiting at Jefferson Barracks, for I felt confident I could be
more useful elsewhere.  Kelton knew that the purchasing duty was but temporary, and that on
its completion, probably at no distant date, I should have to join my company at the barracks;
so, realizing the inactivity to which that situation of affairs would subject me, he decided
to assume the responsibility of sending me to report to General Halleck at Shiloh, and gave
me an order to that effect.

This I consider the turning-point in my military career, and shall always feel grateful to
Colonel Kelton for his kindly act which so greatly influenced my future.  My desire to join
the army at Shiloh had now taken possession of me, and I was bent on getting there by the first
means available.  Learning that a hospital-boat under charge of Dr. Hough was preparing to
start for Pittsburg Landing, I obtained the Doctor's consent to take passage on it, and on
the evening of April 15, I left St. Louis for the scene of military operations in northeastern
Mississippi.

At Pittsburg Landing I reported to General Halleck, who, after some slight delay, assigned
me to duty as an assistant to Colonel George Thom, of the topographical engineers.  Colonel
Thom put me at the work of getting the trains up from the landing, which involved the repair
of roads for that purpose by corduroying the marshy places. This was rough, hard work, without
much chance of reward, but it, was near the field of active operations, and I determined to
do the best I could at it till opportunity for something better might arise.

General Halleck did not know much about taking care of himself in the field.  His camp arrangements
were wholly inadequate, and in consequence he and all the officers about him were subjected
to much unnecessary discomfort and annoyance.  Someone suggested to him to appoint me quartermaster
for his headquarters, with a view to systematizing the establishment and remedying the defects
complained of, and I was consequently assigned to this duty.  Shortly after this assignment
I had the satisfaction of knowing that General Halleck was delighted with the improvements
made at headquarters, both in camp outfit and transportation, and in administration generally.
My popularity grew as the improvements increased, but one trifling incident came near marring
it.  There was some hitch about getting fresh beef for General Halleck's mess, and as by this
time everybody had come to look to me for anything and everything in the way of comfort, Colonel
Joe McKibben brought an order from the General for me to get fresh beef for the headquarters
mess.  I was not caterer for this mess, nor did I belong to it even, so I refused point-blank.
McKibben, disliking to report my disobedience, undertook persuasion, and brought Colonel Thom
to see me to aid in his negotiations, but I would not give in, so McKibben in the kindness
of his heart rode several miles in order to procure the beef himself, and thus save me from
the dire results which be thought would follow should Halleck get wind of such downright insubordination.
The next day I was made Commissary of Subsistence for the headquarters in addition to my other
duties, and as this brought me into the line of fresh beef, General Halleck had no cause thereafter
to complain of a scarcity of that article in his mess.

