A few years later, i.e. in 1836, the French naturalist Alcide d'Orbigny, who had won celebrity
at a very early age, was appointed by the governing body of the Museum to the command of an
expedition to South America, the special object of which was the study of the natural history
of the country. For eight consecutive years D'Orbigny wandered about Brazil, Uruguay, the Argentine
Republic, Patagonia, Chili, Bolivia, and Peru.

"Such a journey," says Dumour in his funeral oration on D'Orbigny, "in countries so different
in their productions, climate, the character of their soil, and the manners and customs of
their inhabitants, was necessarily full of ever fresh perils. D'Orbigny, endowed with a strong
constitution and untiring energy, overcame obstacles which would have daunted most travellers.
On his arrival in the cold regions of Patagonia, amongst savage races constantly at war with
each other, he found himself compelled to take part, and to fight in the ranks of a tribe which
had received him hospitably. Fortunately for the intrepid student his side was victorious,
and he was left free to proceed on his journey."

It took thirteen years of the hardest work to put together the results of D'Orbigny's extensive
researches. His book, which embraces nearly every branch of science, leaves far behind it all
that had ever before been published on South America. History, archæology, zoology, and botany
all hold honoured positions in it; but the most important part of this encyclopædic work is
that relating to American man. In it the author embodies all the documents he himself collected,
and analyzes and criticizes those which came to him at second hand, on physiological types,
and on the manners, languages, and religions of South America. A work of such value ought to
immortalize the name of the French scholar, and reflect the greatest honour on the nation which
gave him birth.

END OF THE FIRST PART.

PART II.

At the beginning of the nineteenth century, the Russians for the first time took part in voyages
round the world, Until that time their explorations had been almost entirely confined to Asia,
and their only mariners of note were Behring, Tchirikoff, Spangberg, Laxman, Krenitzin, and
Saryscheff. The last-named took an important part in the voyage of the Englishman Billings,
a voyage by the way which was far from achieving all that might have been fairly expected from
the ten years it occupied and the vast sums it cost.

Adam John von Kruzenstern was the first Russian to whom is due the honour of having made a
voyage round the world under government auspices and with a scientific purpose.

Born in 1770, Kruzenstern entered the English navy in 1793. After six years' training in the
stern school which then numbered amongst its leaders the most skilful sailors of the world,
he returned to his native land with a profound knowledge of his profession, and with his ideas
of the part Russia might play in Eastern Asia very considerably widened.

During a stay of two years at Canton, in 1798 and 1799, Kruzenstern had been witness of the
extraordinary results achieved by some English fur traders, who brought their merchandise from
the northwest coasts of Russian America. This trade had not come into existence until after
Cook's third voyage, and the English had already realized immense sums, at the cost of the
Russians, who had hitherto sent their furs to the Chinese markets overland.

In 1785, however, a Russian named Chelikoff founded a fur-trading colony on Kodiak Island,
at about an equal distance from Kamtchatka and the Aleutian Islands, which rapidly became a
flourishing community. The Russian government now recognized the resources of districts it
had hitherto considered barren, and reinforcements, provisions, and stores were sent to Kamtchatka
via Siberia.

Kruzenstern quickly realized how inadequate to the new state of things was help such as this,
the ignorance of the pilots and the errors in the maps leading to the loss of several vessels
every year, not to speak of the injury to trade involved in a two years' voyage for the transport
of furs, first to Okhotsk, and thence to Kiakhta.

As the best plans are always the simplest they are sure to be the last to be thought of, and
Kruzenstern was the first to point out the imperative necessity of going direct by sea from
the Aleutian Islands to Canton, the most frequented market.

On his return to Russia, Kruzenstern tried to win over to his views Count Kuscheleff, the Minister
of Marine, but the answer he received destroyed all hope. Not until the accession of Alexander
I., when Admiral Mordinoff became head of the naval department, did he receive any encouragement.

Acting on Count Romanoff's advice, the Russian Emperor soon commissioned Kruzenstern to carry
out the plan he had himself proposed; and on the 7th August, 1802, he was appointed to the
command of two vessels for the exploration of the north-west coast of America.

Although the leader of the expedition was named, the officers and seamen were still to be selected,
and the vessels to be manned were not to be had in either the Russian empire or at Hamburg.
In London alone were Lisianskoï, afterwards second in command to Kruzenstern, and the builder
Kasoumoff, able to obtain two vessels at all suitable to the service in which they were to
be employed. These two vessels received the names of the Nadiejeda and the Neva.

In the meantime, the Russian government decided to avail itself of this opportunity to send
M. de Besanoff to Japan as ambassador, with a numerous suite, and magnificent presents for
the sovereign of the country.

On the 4th August, 1803, the two vessels, completely equipped, and carrying 134 persons, left
the roadstead of Cronstadt. Flying visits were paid to Copenhagen and Falmouth, with a view
to replacing some of the salt provisions bought at Hamburg, and to caulk the Nadiejeda, the
seams of which had started in a violent storm encountered in the North Sea.

After a short stay at the Canary Islands, Kruzenstern hunted in vain, as La Pérouse had done
before him, for the Island of Ascension, as to the existence of which opinion had been divided
for some three hundred years. He then rounded Cape Frio, the position of which he was unable
exactly to determine although he was most anxious to do so, the accounts of earlier travellers
and the maps hitherto laid down varying from 23 degrees 6 minutes to 22 degrees 34 minutes.
A reconnaissance of the coast of Brazil was succeeded by a sail through the passage between
the islands of Gal and Alvaredo, unjustly characterized as dangerous by La Pérouse, and on
the 21st December, 1803, St. Catherine was reached.

The necessity for replacing the main and mizzen masts of the Neva detained Kruzenstern for
five weeks on this island, where he was most cordially received by the Portuguese authorities.

On the 4th February, the two vessels were able to resume their voyage, prepared to face all
the dangers of the South Sea, and to double Cape Horn, that bugbear of all navigators. As far
as Staten Island the weather was uniformly fine, but beyond it the explorers had to contend
with extremely violent gales, storms of hail and snow, dense fogs, huge waves, and a swell
in which the vessels laboured heavily. On the 24th March, the ships lost sight of each other
in a dense fog a little above the western entrance to the Straits of Magellan. They did not
meet again until both reached Noukha-Hiva.

Kruzenstern having given up all idea of touching at Easter Island, now made for the Marquesas,
or Mendoza Archipelago, and determined the position of Fatongou and Udhugu Islands, called
Washington by the American Captain Ingraham, who discovered them in 1791, a few weeks before
Captain Marchand, who named them Revolution Islands. Kruzenstern also saw Hiva-Hoa, the Dominica
of Mendaña, and at Noukha-Hiva met an Englishman named Roberts, and a Frenchman named Cabritt,
whose knowledge of the language was of great service to him.

The incidents of the stay in the Marquesas Archipelago are of little interest, they were much
the same as those related in Cook's Voyages. The total, but at the same time utterly unconscious
immodesty of the women, the extensive agricultural knowledge of the natives, and their greed
of iron instruments, are commented upon in both narratives.

Nothing is noticed in the later which is not to be found in the earlier narrative, if we except
some remarks on the existence of numerous societies of which the king or his relations, priests,
or celebrated warriors, are the chiefs, and the aim of which is the providing of the people
with food in times of scarcity. In our opinion these societies resemble the clans of Scotland
or the Indian tribes of America. Kruzenstern, however, does not agree with us, as the following
quotation will show.

"The members of these clubs are distinguished by different tattooed marks upon their bodies;
those of the king's club, consisting of twenty-six members, have a square one on their breasts
about six inches long and four wide, and to this company Roberts belonged. The companions of
the Frenchman, Joseph Cabritt, were marked with a tattooed eye, &c. Roberts assured me that
he never would have entered this association, had he not been driven to it by extreme hunger.
There was an apparent want of consistency in this dislike, as the members of these companies
are not only relieved from all care as to their subsistence, but, even by his own account,
the admittance into them is a distinction that many seek to obtain. I am therefore inclined
to believe that it must be attended with the loss of some part of liberty."

A reconnaissance of the neighbourhood of Anna Maria led to the discovery of Port Tchitchagoff,
which, though the entrance is difficult, is so shut in by land that its waters are unruffled
by the most violent storm.

At the time of Kruzenstern's visit to Noukha-Hiva, cannibalism was still largely practised,
but the traveller had no tangible proof of the prevalence of the custom. In fact Kruzenstern
was very affably received by the king of the cannibals, who appeared to exercise but little
authority over his people, a race addicted to the most revolting vices, and our hero owns that
but for the intelligent and disinterested testimony of the two Europeans mentioned above he
should have carried away a very favourable opinion of the natives.

"In their intercourse with us," he says, "they always showed the best possible disposition,
and in bartering an extraordinary degree of honesty, always delivering their cocoa-nuts before
they received the piece of iron that was to be paid for them. At all times they appeared ready
to assist in cutting wood and filling water; and the help they afforded us in the performance
of these laborious tasks was by no means trifling. Theft, the crime so common to all the islanders
of this ocean, we very seldom met with among them; they always appeared cheerful and happy,
and the greatest good humour was depicted in their countenances.... The two Europeans whom
we found here, and who had both resided with them several years, agreed in their assertions
that the natives of Nukahiva were a cruel, intractable people, and, without even the exceptions
of the female sex, very much addicted to cannibalism; that the appearance of content and good-humour,
with which they had so much deceived us, was not their true character; and that nothing but
the fear of punishment and the hopes of reward, deterred them from giving a loose to their
savage passions. These Europeans described, as eye-witnesses, the barbarous scenes that are
acted, particularly in times of war--the desperate rage with which they fall upon their victims,
immediately tear off their head, and sip their blood out of the skull,[1] with the most disgusting
readiness, completing in this manner their horrible repast. For a long time I would not give
credit to these accounts, considering them as exaggerated; but they rest upon the authority
of two different persons, who had not only been witnesses for several years to these atrocities,
but had also borne a share in them: of two persons who lived in a state of mortal enmity, and
took particular pains by their mutual recriminations to obtain with us credit for themselves,
but yet on this point never contradicted each other. The very fact of Roberts doing his enemy
the justice to allow, that he never devoured his prey, but always exchanged it for hogs, gives
the circumstance a great degree of probability, and these reports concur with several appearances
we remarked during our stay here, skulls being brought to us every day for sale. Their weapons
are invariably adorned with human hair, and human bones are used as ornaments in almost all
their household furniture; they also often gave us to understand by pantomimic gestures that
human flesh was regarded by them as a delicacy."

[Footnote 1: "All the skulls which we purchased of them," says Kruzenstern, "had a hole perforated
through one end of them for this purpose."]

There are grounds for looking upon this account as exaggerated. The truth, probably, lies between
the dogmatic assertions of Cook and Forster and those of the two Europeans of Kruzenstern's
time, one of whom at least was not much to be relied upon, as he was a deserter.

And we must remember that we ourselves did not attain to the high state of civilization we
now enjoy without climbing up from the bottom of the ladder. In the stone age our manners were
probably not superior to those of the natives of Oceania.

We must not, therefore, blame these representatives of humanity for not having risen higher.
They have never been a nation. Scattered as their homes are on the wide ocean, and divided
as they are into small tribes, without agricultural or mineral resources, without connexions,
and with a climate which makes them strangers to want, they could but remain stationary or
cultivate none but the most rudimentary arts and industries. Yet in spite of all this, how
often have their instruments, their canoes, and their nets, excited the admiration of travellers.

On the 18th May, 1804, the Nadiejeda and the Neva left Noukha-Hiva for the Sandwich Islands,
where Kruzenstern had decided to stop and lay in a store of fresh provisions, which he had
been unable to do at his last anchorage, where seven pigs were all he could get.

This plan fell through, however. The natives of Owhyhee, or Hawaii, brought but a very few
provisions to the vessels lying off their south-west coast, and even these they would only
exchange for cloth, which Kruzenstern could not give them. He therefore set sail for Kamtchatka
and Japan, leaving the Neva off the island of Karakakoua, where Captain Lisianskoï relied upon
being able to revictual.

On the 11th July, the Nadiejeda arrived off Petropaulovski, the capital of Kamtchatka, where
the crew obtained the rest and fresh provisions they had so well earned. On the 30th August,
the Russians put to sea again.

Overtaken by thick fogs and violent storms, Kruzenstern now hunted in vain for some islands
marked on a map found on a Spanish gallion captured by Anson, and the existence of which had
been alternately accepted and rejected by different cartographers, though they appear in La
Billardière's map of his voyage.

The navigator now passed between the large island of Kiushiu and Tanega-Sima, by way of Van
Diemen Strait, till then very inaccurately defined, rectified the position of the Liu-Kiu archipelago,
which the English had placed north of the strait, and the French too far south, and sailed
down, surveyed and named the coast of the province of Satsuma.

"This part of Satsuma," says Kruzenstern, "is particularly beautiful: and as we sailed along
at a very trifling distance from the land, we had a distinct and perfect view of the various
picturesque situations that rapidly succeed each other. The whole country consists of high
pointed hills, at one time appearing in the form of pyramids, at others of a globular or conical
form, and seeming as it were under the protection of some neighbouring mountain, such as Peak
Homer, or another lying north-by-west of it, and even a third farther inland. Liberal as nature
has been in the adornment of these parts, the industry of the Japanese seems not a little to
have contributed to their beauty; for nothing indeed can equal the extraordinary degree of
cultivation everywhere apparent. That all the valleys upon this coast should be most carefully
cultivated would not so much have surprised us, as in the countries of Europe, where agriculture
is not despised, it is seldom that any piece of land is left neglected; but we here saw not
only the mountains even to their summits, but the very tops of the rocks which skirted the
edge of the coast, adorned with the most beautiful fields and plantations, forming a striking
as well as singular contrast, by the opposition of their dark grey and blue colour to that
of the most lively verdure. Another object that excited our astonishment was an alley of high
trees, stretching over hill and dale along the coast, as far as the eye could reach, with arbours
at certain distances, probably for the weary traveller--for whom these alleys must have been
constructed,--to rest himself in, an attention which cannot well be exceeded. These alleys
are not uncommon in Japan, for we saw a similar one in the vicinity of Nangasaky, and another
in the island of Meac-Sima."

The Nadiejeda had hardly anchored at the entrance to Nagasaki harbour before Kruzenstern saw
several daïmios climb on board, who had come to forbid him to advance further.

Now, although the Russians were aware of the policy of isolation practised by the Japanese
government, they had hoped that their reception would have been less forbidding, as they had
on board an ambassador from the powerful neighbouring state of Russia. They had relied on enjoying
comparative liberty, of which they would have availed themselves to collect information on
a country hitherto so little known and about which the only people admitted to it had taken
a vow of silence.

They were, however, disappointed in their expectations. Instead of enjoying the same latitude
as the Dutch, they were throughout their stay harassed by a perpetual surveillance, as unceasing
as it was annoying. In a word, they were little better than prisoners.

Although the ambassador did obtain permission to land with his escort "under arms," a favour
never before accorded to any one, the sailors were not allowed to get out of their boat, or
when they did land the restricted place where they were permitted to walk was surrounded by
a lofty palisading, and guarded by two companies of soldiers.

It was forbidden to write to Europe by way of Batavia, it was forbidden to talk to the Dutch
captains, the ambassador was forbidden to leave his house--the word forbidden may be said to
sum up the anything but cordial reception given to their visitors by the Japanese.

Kruzenstern turned his long stay here to account by completely overhauling and repairing his
vessel. He had nearly finished this operation when the approach was announced of an envoy from
the Emperor, of dignity so exalted that, in the words of the interpreter, "he dared to look
at the feet of his Imperial Majesty."

This personage began by refusing the Czar's presents, under pretence that if they were accepted
the Emperor would have to send back others with an embassy, which would be contrary to the
customs of the country; and he then went on to speak of the law against the entry of any vessels
into the ports of Japan, and absolutely forbade the Russians to buy anything, adding, however,
at the same time, that the materials already supplied for the refitting and revictualling the
vessel would be paid for out of the treasury of the Emperor of Japan. He further inquired whether
the repairs of the Nadiejeda would soon be finished. Kruzenstern understood what was meant
as soon as his visitor began to speak, and hurried on the preparations for his own departure.

Truly he had not much reason to congratulate himself on having waited from October to April
for such an answer as this. So little were the chief results hoped for by his government achieved,
that no Russian vessel could ever again enter a Japanese port. A short-sighted, jealous policy,
resulting in the putting back for half a century the progress of Japan.

On the 17th April the Nadiejeda weighed anchor, and began a hydrographic survey, which had
the best results. La Pérouse had been the only navigator to traverse before Kruzenstern the
seas between Japan and the continent. The Russian explorer was therefore anxious to connect
his work with that of his predecessor, and to fill up the gaps the latter had been compelled
for want of time to leave in his charts of these parts.

"To explore the north-west and south-west coasts of Japan," says Kruzenstern, "to ascertain
the situation of the Straits of Sangar, the width of which in the best charts--Arrowsmith's
'South Sea Pilot' for instance, and the atlas subjoined to La Pérouse's Voyage--is laid down
as more than a hundred miles, while the Japanese merely estimated it to be a Dutch mile; to
examine the west coast of Yezo; to find out the island of Karafuto, which in some new charts,
compiled after a Japanese one, is placed between Yezo and Sachalin, and the existence of which
appeared to me very probable; to explore this new strait and take an accurate plan of the island
of Sachalin, from Cape Crillon to the north-west coast, from whence, if a good harbour were
to be found there, I could send out my long boat to examine the supposed passage which divides
Tartary from Sachalin; and, finally, to attempt a return through a new passage between the
Kuriles, north of the Canal de la Boussole; all this came into my plan, and I have had the
good fortune to execute part of it."

Kruzenstern was destined almost entirely to carry out this detailed plan, only the survey of
the western coast of Japan and of the Strait of Sangar, with that of the channel closing the
Farakaï Strait, could not be accomplished by the Russian navigator, who had, sorely against
his will, to leave the completion of this important task to his successors.

Kruzenstern now entered the Corea Channel, and determined the longitude of Tsusima, obtaining
a difference of thirty-six minutes from the position assigned to that island by La Pérouse.
This difference was subsequently confirmed by Dagelet, who can be fully relied upon.

The Russian explorer noticed, as La Pérouse had done before him, that the deviation of the
magnetic needle is but little noticeable in these latitudes.

The position of Sangar Strait, between Yezo and Niphon, being very uncertain, Kruzenstern resolved
to determine it. The mouth, situated between Cape Sangar (N. lat. 41 degrees 16 minutes 30
seconds and W. long. 219 degrees 46 minutes) and Cape Nadiejeda (N. lat. 41 degrees 25 minutes
10 seconds, W. long. 219 degrees 50 minutes 30 seconds), is only nine miles wide; whereas La
Pérouse, who had relied, not upon personal observation but upon the map of the Dutchman Vries,
speaks of it as ten miles across. Kruzenstern's was therefore an important rectification.

Kruzenstern did not actually enter this strait. He was anxious to verify the existence of a
certain island, Karafonto, Tchoka, or Chicha by name, set down as between Yezo and Saghalien
in a map which appeared at St. Petersburg in 1802, and was based on one brought to Russia by
the Japanese Koday. He then surveyed a small portion of the coast of Yezo, naming the chief
irregularities, and cast anchor near the southernmost promontory of the island, at the entrance
to the Straits of La Pérouse.

Here he learnt from the Japanese that Saghalien and Karafonto were one and the same island.

On the 10th May, 1805, Kruzenstern landed at Yezo, and was surprised to find the season but
little advanced. The trees were not yet in leaf, the snow still lay thick here and there, and
the explorer had supposed that it was only at Archangel that the temperature would be so severe
at this time of year. This phenomenon was to be explained later, when more was known as to
the direction taken by the polar current, which, issuing from Behring Strait, washes the shores
of Kamtchatka, the Kurile Islands, and Yezo.

During his short stay here and at Saghalien, Kruzenstern was able to make some observations
on the Ainos, a race which probably occupied the whole of Yezo before the advent of the Japanese,
from whom--at least from those who have been influenced by intercourse with China--they differ
entirely.

"Their figure," says Kruzenstern, "dress, appearance, and their language, prove that they are
the same people, as those of Saghalien; and the captain of the Castricum, when he missed the
Straits of La Pérouse, might imagine, as well in Aniwa as in Alkys, that he was but in one
island.... The Ainos are rather below the middle stature, being at the most five feet two or
four inches high, of a dark, nearly black complexion, with a thick bushy beard, black rough
hair, hanging straight down; and excepting in the beard they have the appearance of the Kamtschadales,
only that their countenance is much more regular. The women are sufficiently ugly; their colour,
which is equally dark, their coal black hair combed over their faces, blue painted lips, and
tattooed hands, added to no remarkable cleanliness in their clothing, do not give them any
great pretensions to loveliness.... However, I must do them the justice to say, that they are
modest in the highest degree, and in this point form the completest contrast with the women
of Nukahiva and of Otaheite.... The characteristic quality of an Aino is goodness of heart,
which is expressed in the strongest manner in his countenance; and so far as we were enabled
to observe their actions, they fully answered this expression.... The dress of the Ainos consists
chiefly of the skins of tame dogs and seals; but I have seen some in a very different attire,
which resembled the Parkis of the Kamtschadales, and is, properly speaking a white shirt worn
over their other clothes. In Aniwa Bay they were all clad in furs; their boots were made of
seal-skins, and in these likewise the women were invariably clothed."

After passing through the Straits of La Pérouse, Kruzenstern cast anchor in Aniwa Bay, off
the island of Saghalien. Here fish was then so plentiful, that two Japanese firms alone employed
400 Ainos to catch and dry it. It is never taken in nets, but buckets are used at ebb-tide.

After having surveyed Patience Gulf, which had only been partially examined by the Dutchman
Vries, and at the bottom of which flows a stream now named the Neva, Kruzenstern broke off
his examination of Saghalien to determine the position of the Kurile Islands, never yet accurately
laid down; and on the 5th June, 1805 he returned to Petropaulovski, where he put on shore the
ambassador and his suite.

In July, after crossing Nadiejeda Strait, between Matona and Rachona, two of the Kurile Islands,
Kruzenstern surveyed the eastern coast of Saghalien, in the neighbourhood of Cape Patience,
which presented a very picturesque appearance, with the hills clothed with grass and stunted
trees and the shores with bushes. The scenery of the interior, however, was somewhat monotonous,
with its unbroken line of lofty mountains.

The navigator skirted along the whole of this deserted and harbourless coast to Capes Maria
and Elizabeth, between which is a deep bay, with a little village of thirty-seven houses nestling
at the end, the only one the Russians had seen since they left Providence Bay. It was not inhabited
by Ainos, but by Tartars, of which very decided proof was obtained a few days later.

Kruzenstern next entered the channel separating Saghalien from Tartary, but he was hardly six
miles from the middle of the passage when his soundings gave six fathoms only. It was useless
to hope to penetrate further. Orders were given to "'bout ship," whilst a boat was sent to
trace the coast-line on either side, and to explore the middle of the strait until the soundings
should give three fathoms only. A very strong current had to be contended with, rendering this
row very difficult, and this current was rightly supposed to be due to the River Amoor, the
mouth of which was not far distant.

The advice given to Kruzenstern by the Governor of Kamtchatka, not to approach the coast of
Chinese Tartary, lest the jealous suspicions of the Celestial Government should be aroused,
prevented the explorer from further prosecuting the work of surveying; and once more passing
the Kurile group, the Nadiejeda returned to Petropaulovsky.

The Commander availed himself of his stay in this port to make some necessary repairs in his
vessel, and to confirm the statements of Captain Clerke, who had succeeded Cook in the command
of his last expedition, and those of Delisle de la Croyère, the French astronomer, who had
been Behring's companion in 1741.

During this last sojourn at Petropaulovsky, Kruzenstern received an autograph letter from the
Emperor of Russia, enclosing the order of St. Anne as a proof of his Majesty's satisfaction
with the work done.

On the 4th October, 1805, the Nadiejeda set sail for Europe; exploring en route the latitudes
in which, according to the maps of the day, were situated the islands of Rica-de-Plata, Guadalupas,
Malabrigos, St. Sebastian de Lobos, and San Juan.

Kruzenstern next identified the Farellon Islands of Anson's map, now known as St. Alexander,
St. Augustine, and Volcanos, and situated south of the Bonin-Sima group. Then crossing the
Formosa Channel, he arrived at Macao on the 21st November.

He was a good deal surprised not to find the Neva there, as he had given instructions for it
to bring a cargo of furs, the price of which he proposed expending on Chinese merchandise.
He decided to wait for the arrival of the Neva.

Macao seemed to him to be falling rapidly into decay.

"Many fine buildings," he says, "are ranged in large squares, surrounded by courtyards and
gardens; but most of them uninhabited, the number of Portuguese residents there having greatly
decreased. The chief private houses belong to the members of the Dutch and English factories....
Twelve or fifteen thousand is said to be the number of the inhabitants of Macao, most of whom,
however, are Chinese, who have so completely taken possession of the town, that it is rare
to meet any European in the streets, with the exception of priests and nuns. One of the inhabitants
said to me, 'We have more priests here than soldiers;' a piece of raillery that was literally
true, the number of soldiers amounting only to 150, not one of whom is a European, the whole
being mulattos of Macao and Goa. Even the officers are not all Europeans. With so small a garrison
it is difficult to defend four large fortresses; and the natural insolence of the Chinese finds
a sufficient motive in the weakness of the military, to heap insult upon insult."

Just as the Nadiejeda was about to weigh anchor, the Neva at last appeared. It was now the
3rd November, and Kruzenstern went up the coast in the newly arrived vessel as far as Whampoa,
where he sold to advantage his cargo of furs, after many prolonged discussions which his firm
but conciliating attitude, together with the intervention of English merchants, brought to
a successful issue.

On the 9th February, the two vessels once more together weighed anchor, and resumed their voyage
by way of the Sunda Isles. Beyond Christmas Island they were again separated in cloudy weather,
and did not meet until the end of the trip. On the 4th May, the Nadiejeda cast anchor in St.
Helena Bay, sixty days' voyage from the Sunda Isles and seventy-nine from Macao.

"I know of no better place," says Kruzenstern, "to get supplies after a long voyage than St.
Helena. The road is perfectly safe, and at all times more convenient than Table Bay or Simon's
Bay, at the Cape. The entrance, with the precaution of first getting near the land, is perfectly
easy; and on quitting the island nothing more is necessary than to weigh anchor and stand out
to sea. Every kind of provision may be obtained here, particularly the best kinds of garden
stuffs, and in two or three days a ship may be provided with everything."

On the 21st April, Kruzenstern passed between the Shetland and Orkney Islands, in order to
avoid the English Channel, where he might have met some French pirates, and after a good voyage
he arrived at Cronstadt on the 7th August, 1806.

Without taking first rank, like the expedition of Cook or that of La Pérouse, Kruzenstern's
trip was not without interest. We owe no great discovery to the Russian explorer, but he verified
and rectified the work of his predecessors. This was in fact what most of the navigators of
the nineteenth century had to do, the progress of science enabling them to complete what had
been begun by others.

Kruzenstern had taken with him in his voyage round the world the son of the well-known dramatic
author Kotzebue. The young Otto Kotzebue, who was then a cadet, soon gained his promotion,
and he was a naval lieutenant when, in 1815 the command was given to him of the Rurik, a new
brig, with two guns, and a crew of no more than twenty-seven men, equipped at the expense of
Count Romantzoff. His task was to explore the less-known parts of Oceania, and to cut a passage
for his vessel across the Frozen Ocean. Kotzebue left the port of Cronstadt on the 15th July,
1815, put in first at Copenhagen and Plymouth, and after a very trying trip doubled Cape Horn,
and entered the Pacific Ocean on the 22nd January, 1816. After a halt at Talcahuano, on the
coast of Chili, he resumed his voyage; sighted the desert island of Salas of Gomez, on the
26th March, and steered towards Easter Island, where he hoped to meet with the same friendly
reception as Cook and Pérouse had done before him.

The Russians had, however, hardly disembarked before they were surrounded by a crowd eager
to offer them fruit and roots, by whom they were so shamelessly robbed that they were compelled
to use their arms in self-defence, and to re-embark as quickly as possible to avoid the shower
of stones flung at them by the natives.

The only observation they had time to make during this short visit, was the overthrow of the
numerous huge stone statues described, measured, and drawn, by Cook and La Pérouse.

On the 16th April, the Russian captain arrived at the Dog Island of Schouten, which he called
Doubtful Island, to mark the difference in his estimate of its position and that attributed
to it by earlier navigators. Kotzebue gives it S. lat. 44 degrees 50 minutes and W. long. 138
degrees 47 minutes.

During the ensuing days were discovered the desert island of Romantzoff, so named in honour
of the promoter of the expedition; Spiridoff Island, with a lagoon in the centre; the Island
Oura of the Pomautou group, the Vliegen chain of islets, and the no less extended group of
the Kruzenstern Islands.

On the 28th April, the Rurik was near the supposed site of Bauman's Islands, but not a sign
of them could be seen, and it appeared probable that the group had in fact been one of those
already visited.

As soon as he was safely out of the dangerous Pomautou archipelago Kotzebue steered towards
the group of islands sighted in 1788 by Sever, who, without touching at them, gave them the
name of Penrhyn. The Russian explorer determined the position of the central group of islets
as S. lat. 9 degrees 1 minute 35 seconds and W. long. 157 degrees 44 minutes 32 seconds, characterizing
them as very low, like those of the Pomautou group, but inhabited for all that.

At the sight of the vessel a considerable fleet of canoes put off from the shore, and the natives,
palm branches in their hands, advanced with the rhythmic sound of the paddles serving as a
kind of solemn and melancholy accompaniment to numerous singers. To guard against surprise,
Kotzebue made all the canoes draw up on one side of the vessel, and bartering was done with
a rope as the means of communication. The natives had nothing to trade with but bits of iron
and fish-hooks made of mother-of-pearl. They were well made and martial-looking, but wore no
clothes beyond a kind of apron.

At first only noisy and very lively, the natives soon became threatening. They thieved openly,
and answered remonstrances with undisguised taunts. Brandishing their spears above their heads,
they seemed to be urging each other on to an attack.

When Kotzebue felt that the moment had come to put an end to these hostile demonstrations,
he had one gun fired. In the twinkling of an eye the canoes were empty, their terrified crews
unpremeditatingly flinging themselves into the water with one accord. Presently the heads of
the divers reappeared, and, a little calmed down by the warning received, the natives returned
to their canoes and their bartering. Nails and pieces of iron were much sought after by these
people, whom Kotzebue likens to the natives of Noukha-Hiva. They do not exactly tatoo themselves,
but cover their bodies with large scars.

A curious fashion not before noticed amongst the islanders of Oceania prevails amongst them.
Most of them wear the nails very long, and those of the chief men in the canoes extended three
inches beyond the end of the finger.

Thirty-six boats, manned by 360 men, now surrounded the vessel, and Kotzebue, judging that
with his feeble resources and the small crew of the Rurik any attempt to land would be imprudent,
set sail again without being able to collect any more information on these wild and warlike
islanders.

Continuing his voyage towards Kamtchatka, the navigator sighted on the 21st May two groups
of islands connected by a chain of coral reefs. He named them Kutusoff and Suwaroff, determined
their position, and made up his mind to come back and examine them again. The natives in fleet
canoes approached the Rurik, but, in spite of the pressing invitation of the Russians, would
not trust themselves on board. They gazed at the vessel in astonishment, talked to each other
with a vivacity which showed their intelligence, and flung on deck the fruit of the pandanus-tree
and cocoa-nuts.

Their lank black hair, with flowers fastened in it here and there, the ornaments hung round
their necks, their clothing of "two curiously-woven coloured mats tied to the waist" and reaching
below the knee, but above all their frank and friendly countenances, distinguished the natives
of the Marshall archipelago from those of Penrhyn.

On the 19th June the Rurik put in at New Archangel, and for twenty-eight days her crew were
occupied in repairing her.

On the 15th July Kotzebue set sail again, and five days later disembarked on Behring Island,
the southern promontory of which he laid down in N. lat. 55 degrees 17 minutes 18 seconds and
W. long. 194 degrees 6 minutes 37 seconds.

The natives Kotzebue met with on this island, like those of the North American coast, wore
clothes made of seal-skin and the intestines of the walrus. The lances used by them were pointed
with the teeth of these amphibious animals. Their food consisted of the flesh of whales and
seals, which they store in deep cellars dug in the earth. Their boats were made of leather,
and they had sledges drawn by dogs.

Their mode of salutation is strange enough, they first rub each other's noses and then pass
their hands over their own stomachs as if rejoicing over the swallowing of some tid-bit. Lastly,
when they want to be very friendly indeed, they spit in their own palms and rub their friends'
faces with the spittle.

The captain, still keeping his northerly course along the American coast, discovered Schichmareff
Bay, Saritschiff Island, and lastly, an extensive gulf, the existence of which was not previously
known. At the end of this gulf Kotzebue hoped to find a channel through which he could reach
the Arctic Ocean, but he was disappointed. He gave his own name to the gulf, and that of Kruzenstern
to the cape at the entrance.

Driven back by bad weather, the Rurik reached Ounalashka on the 6th September, halted for a
few days at San Francisco, and reached the Sandwich Islands, where some important surveys were
made and some very curious information collected.

On leaving the Sandwich Islands, Kotzebue steered for Suwaroff and Kutusoff Islands, which
he had discovered a few months before. On the 1st January, 1817, he sighted Miadi Island, to
which he gave the name of New Year's Island. Four days later he discovered a chain of little
low wooded islands set in a framework of reefs, through which the vessel could scarcely make
its way.

Just at first the natives ran away at the sight of Lieutenant Schischmaroff, but they soon
came back with branches in their hands, shouting out the word aidara (friend). The officer
repeated this word and gave them a few nails in return, for which the Russians received the
collars and flowers worn as neck-ornaments by the natives.

This exchange of courtesies emboldened the rest of the islanders to appear, and throughout
the stay of the Russians in this archipelago these friendly demonstrations and enthusiastic
but guarded greetings were continued. One native, Rarik by name, was particularly cordial to
the Russians, whom he informed that the name of his island and of the chain of islets and attolls[2]
connected with it was Otdia. In acknowledgment of the cordial reception of the natives, Kotzebue
left with them a cock and hen, and planted in a garden laid out under his orders a quantity
of seeds, in the hope that they would thrive; but in this he did not make allowance for the
number of rats which swarmed upon these islands and wrought havoc in his plantations.

[Footnote 2: Attolls are coral islands like circular belts surrounding a smooth lagoon.--Trans.]

On the 6th February, after ascertaining from what he was told by a chief named Languediak,
that these sparsely populated islands were of recent formation, Kotzebue put to sea again,
having first christened the archipelago Romantzoff.

The next day a group of islets, on which only three inhabitants were found, had its name of
Eregup changed to that of Tchitschakoff, and then an enthusiastic reception was given to Kotzebue
on the Kawen Islands by the tamon or chief. Every native here fêted the new-comers, some by
their silence--like the queen forbidden by etiquette to answer the speeches made to her--some
by their dances, cries, and songs, in which the name of Totabou (Kotzebue) was constantly repeated.
The chief himself came to fetch Kotzebue in a canoe, and carried him on his shoulders through
the breakers to the beach.

In the Aur group the navigator noticed amongst a crowd of natives who climbed on to the vessel,
two natives whose faces and tattooing seemed to mark them as of alien race. One of them, Kadu
by name, especially pleased the commander, who gave him some bits of iron, and Kotzebue was
surprised that he did not receive them with the same pleasure as his companions. This was explained
the same evening. When all the natives were leaving the vessel, Kadu earnestly begged to be
allowed to remain on the Rurik, and never again to leave it. The commander only yielded to
his wishes after a great deal of persuasion.

"Kadu," says Kotzebue, "had scarcely obtained permission, when he turned quickly to his comrades,
who were waiting for him, declared to them his intention of remaining on board the ship, and
distributed his iron among the chiefs. The astonishment in the boats was beyond description:
they tried in vain to shake his resolution; he was immovable. At last his friend Edock came
back, spoke long and seriously to him, and when he found that his persuasion was of no avail,
he attempted to drag him by force; but Kadu now used the right of the strongest, he pushed
his friend from him, and the boats sailed off. His resolution being inexplicable to me, I conceived
a notion that he perhaps intended to steal during the night, and privately to leave the ship,
and therefore had the night-watch doubled, and his bed made up close to mine on the deck, where
I slept, on account of the heat. Kadu felt greatly honoured to sleep close to the tamon of
the ship."

Born at Ulle, one of the Caroline Islands, more than 300 miles from the group where he was
now living, Kadu, with Edok and two other fellow-countrymen, had been overtaken, when fishing,
by a violent storm. For eight months the poor fellows were at the mercy of the winds and currents
on a sea now smooth, now rough. They had never throughout this time been without fish, but
they had suffered the cruelest tortures from thirst. When their stock of rain-water, which
they had used very sparingly, was exhausted, there was nothing left to them to do but to fling
themselves into the sea and try to obtain at the bottom of the ocean some water less impregnated
with salt, which they brought to the surface in cocoa-nut shells pierced with a small opening.
When they reached the Aur Islands, even the sight of land and the immediate prospect of safety
did not rouse them from the state of prostration into which they had sunk.

The sight of the iron instruments in the canoe of the strangers led the people of Aur to decide
on their massacre for the sake of their treasures; but the tamon, Tigedien by name, took them
under his protection.

Three years had passed since this event, and the men from the Caroline Islands, thanks to their
more extended knowledge, soon acquired a certain ascendancy over their hosts.

When the Rurik appeared, Kadu was in the woods a long way from the coast. He was sent for at
once, as he was looked upon as a great traveller, and he might perhaps be able to say what
the great monster approaching the island was. Now Kadu had more than once seen European vessels,
and he persuaded his friends to go and meet the strangers, and to receive them kindly.

Such had been Kadu's adventures. He now remained on the Rurik, identified the other islands
of the Archipelago, and lost no time in facilitating intercourse between the Russians and the
natives. Dressed in a yellow mantle, and wearing a red cap like a convict, Kadu looked down
upon his old friends, and seemed not to recognize them. When a fine old man with a flowing
beard, named Tigedien, came on board, Kadu undertook to explain to him and his companions the
working of the vessel and the use of everything about the ship. Like many Europeans, he made
up for his ignorance by imperturbable assurance, and had an answer ready for every question.

Interrogated on the subject of a little box from which a sailor took a black powder and applied
it to his nostrils, Kadu glibly told some most extraordinary stories, and wound up with a practical
illustration by putting the box against his own nose. He then flung it from him, sneezing violently
and screaming so loud that his terrified friends fled away on every side; but when the crisis
was over he managed to turn the incident to his own advantage.

Kadu gave Kotzebue some general information about the group of islands then under examination,
and the Russians spent a month in taking surveys, &c. All these islands, which the natives
call Radack, were under the control of one tamon, a man named Lamary. A few years later Dumont
d'Urville gave the name of Marshall to the group. According to Kadu, another chain of islets,
attolls, and reefs was situated some little distance off on the west.

Kotzebue had not time to identify them, and steering in a northerly direction he reached Ounalashka
on the 24th April, where he had to repair the serious damage sustained by the Rurik in two
violent storms. This done, he took on board some baidares (boats cased in skins to make them
water-tight), with fifteen natives of the Aleutian Islands, who were used to the navigation
of the Polar seas, and resumed his exploration of Behring Strait.

Kotzebue had suffered very much from pain in his chest ever since when, doubling Cape Horn,
he had been knocked down by a huge wave and flung overboard, an accident which would have cost
him his life had he not clung to some rope. The consequences were so serious to his health
that when, on the 10th July, he landed on the island of St. Lawrence, he was obliged to give
up the further prosecution of his researches.

On the 1st October the Rurik made a second short halt at the Sandwich Islands where seeds and
animals were landed, and at the end of the month the explorers landed at Otdia in the midst
of the enthusiastic acclamations of the natives. The cats brought by the visitors were welcomed
with special enthusiasm, for the island was infested with immense numbers of rats, who worked
havoc on the plantations. Great also was the rejoicing over the return of Kadu, with whom the
Russians left an assortment of tools and weapons, which made their owner the wealthiest inhabitant
of the archipelago.

On the 4th November the Rurik left the Radak Islands, after identifying the Legiep group, and
cast anchor off Guam, one of the Marianne islands, where she remained until the end of the
month. A halt of some weeks at Manilla enabled the commander to collect some curious information
about the Philippine Islands, to which he would have to return later.

After escaping from the violent storms encountered in doubling the Cape of Good Hope, the Rurik
cast anchor on the 3rd August, 1818, in the Neva, opposite Count Romantzoff's palace.

These three years of absence had been turned to good account by the hardy navigators. In spite
of the smallness of their number and the poverty of their equipments, they had not been afraid
to face the terrors of the deep, to venture amongst all but unknown archipelagoes, or to brave
the rigours of the Arctic and Torrid zones. Important as were their actual discoveries, their
rectification of the errors of their predecessors were of yet greater value. Two thousand five
hundred species of plants, one third of which were quite new, with numerous details respecting
the language, ethnography, religion, and customs of the tribes visited, formed a rich harvest
attesting the zeal, skill, and knowledge of the captain as well as the intrepidity and endurance
of his crew.

When, therefore, the Russian government decided, in 1823, to send reinforcements to Kamtchatka
to put an end to the contraband trade carried on in Russian America, the command of the expedition
was given to Kotzebue. A frigate called the Predpriatie was placed at his disposal, and he
was left free to choose his own route both going and returning.

Kotzebue had gone round the world as a midshipman with Kruzenstern, and that explorer now entrusted
to him his eldest son, as did also Möller, the Minister of Marine, a proof of the great confidence
both fathers placed in him.

The expedition left Cronstadt on the 15th August, 1823, reached Rio Janeiro in safety, doubled
Cape Horn on the 15th January, 1824, and steered for the Pomautou Archipelago, where Predpriatie
Island was discovered and the islands of Araktschejews, Romantzoff, Carlshoff, and Palliser
were identified. On the 14th March anchor was cast in the harbour of Matavar, Otaheite.

Since Cook's stay in this archipelago a complete transformation had taken place in the manners
and customs of the inhabitants.

In 1799 some missionaries settled in Otaheite, where they remained for ten years, unfortunately
without making a single conversion, and we add with regret without even winning the esteem
or respect of the natives. Compelled at the end of these ten years, in consequence of the revolutions
which convulsed Otaheite, to take refuge at Eimeo and other islands of the same group, their
efforts were there crowned with more success. In 1817, Pomaré, king of Otaheite, recalled the
missionaries, made them a grant of land, and declared himself a convert to Christianity. His
example was soon followed by a considerable number of natives.

Kotzebue had heard of this change, but he was not prepared to find European customs generally
adopted.

At the sound of the discharge announcing the arrival of the Russians, a boat, bearing the Otaheitian
flag, put off from shore, bringing a pilot to guide the Predpriatie to its anchorage.

The next day, which happened to be Sunday, the Russians were surprised at the religious silence
which prevailed throughout the island when they landed. This silence was only broken by the
sound of canticles and psalms sung by the natives in their huts.

The church, a plain, clean building of rectangular form, roofed with reeds and approached by
a long avenue of palms, was well filled with an attentive, orderly congregation, the men sitting
on one side, the women on the other, all with prayer-books in their hands. The voices of the
neophytes often joined in the chant of the missionaries, unfortunately with better will than
correctness or appropriateness.

If the piety of the islanders was edifying, the costumes worn by these strange converts were
such as somewhat to distract the attention of the visitors. A black coat or the waistcoat of
an English uniform was the only garment worn by some, whilst others contented themselves with
a jacket, a shirt, or a pair of trousers. The most fortunate were wrapped in cloth mantles,
and rich and poor alike dispensed with shoes and stockings.

The women were no less grotesquely clad. Some wore men's shirts, white or striped as the case
might be, others a mere piece of cloth; but all had European hats. The wives of the Areois[3]
wore coloured robes, a piece of great extravagance, but with them the dress formed the whole
costume.

[Footnote 3: The Areois are a curious vagrant set of people, who have been found in these regions,
who practise the singular and fatal custom of killing their children at birth, because of a
traditional law binding them to do so.--Trans.]

On the Monday a most imposing ceremony took place. This was the visit to Kotzebue of the queen-mother
and the royal family. These great people were preceded by a master of ceremonies, who was a
sort of court fool wearing nothing but a red waistcoat, and with his legs tattooed to represent
striped trousers, whilst on the lower portion of his back was described a quadrant divided
into minute sections. He performed his absurd capers, contortions, and grimaces with a gravity
infinitely amusing.

The queen regent carried the little king Pomaré III. in her arms, and beside her walked his
sister, a pretty child of ten years old. The royal infant was dressed in European style, like
his subjects, and like them, he wore nothing on his feet. At the request of the ministers and
great people of Otaheite, Kotzebue had a pair of boots made for him, which he was to wear on
the day of his coronation.

Great were the shouts of joy, the gestures of delight, and the envious exclamations over the
trifles distributed amongst the ladies of the court, and fierce were the struggles for the
smallest shreds of the imitation gold lace given away.

What important matter could have brought so many men on to the deck of the frigate, bearing
with them quantities of fruits and figs? These eager messengers were the husbands of the disappointed
ladies of Otaheite who had not been present at the division of the gold lace more valuable
in their eyes than rivers of diamonds in those of Europeans.

At the end of ten days, Kotzebue decided to leave this strange country, where civilization
and barbarism flourished side by side in a manner so fraternal, and steered for the Samoa Archipelago,
notorious for the massacre of the companions of La Pérouse.

How great was the difference between the Samoans and the Otaheitians! Wild and fierce, suspicious
and threatening, the natives of Rose Island could scarcely be kept off the deck of the Predpriatie,
and one of them at the sight of the bare arm of a sailor made a savage and eloquent gesture
showing with what pleasure he could devour the firm and doubtless savoury flesh displayed to view.

The insolence of the natives increased with the arrival of more canoes from the shore, and
they had to be beaten back with boathooks before the Predpriatie could get away from amongst
the frail boats of the ferocious islanders.

Upolu or Oyalava, Platte and Pola or Savai Islands, which with Rose Island form part of the
Navigator or Samoan group, were passed almost as soon as they were sighted; and Kotzebue steered
for the Radak Islands, where he had been so kindly received on his first voyage. This time,
however, the natives were terrified at sight of the huge vessel, and piled up their canoes
or fled into the interior, whilst on the beach a procession was formed, a number of islanders
with palm branches in their hands advancing to meet the intruders and beg for peace.

At this sight, Kotzebue flung himself into a boat with the surgeon Eschscholtz, and rowing
rapidly towards the shore, shouted: "Totabou aïdara" (Kotzebue, friend). An immediate change
was the result; the petitions the natives were going to address to the Russians were converted
into shouts and enthusiastic demonstrations of delight, some rushing forwards to welcome their
friend, others running over to announce his arrival to their fellow-countrymen.

The commander was very pleased to find that Kadu was still living at Aur, under the protection
of Lamary, whose countenance he had secured at the price of half his wealth.

Of all the animals left here by Kotzebue, the cats, now become wild alone, had survived, and
thus far they had not destroyed the legions of rats with which the island was overrun.

The explorer remained several days with his friends, whom he entertained with dramatic representations;
and on the 6th May he made for the Legiep group, the examination of which he had left uncompleted
on his last voyage. After surveying it, he intended to resume his exploration of the Radak
Islands, but bad weather prevented this, and he had to set sail for Kamtchatka.

The crew here enjoyed the rest so fully earned, from the 7th June to the 20th July, when Kotzebue
set sail for New Archangel on the American coast, where he cast anchor on the 7th August.

The frigate, which was here to take the place of the Predpriatie, was not however ready for
sea until the 1st March of the following year, and Kotzebue turned the delay to account by
visiting the Sandwich Islands, where he cast anchor off Waihou in December, 1824.

The harbour of Hono-kourou or Honolulu is the safest of the archipelago; a good many vessels
therefore put in there even at this early date, and the island of Waihou bid fair to become
the most important of the group, supplanting Hawaii or Owhyee. The appearance of the town was
already semi-European, stone houses replaced the primitive native huts, regular streets with
shops, café, public-houses, much patronized by the sailors of whalers and fur-traders, together
with a fortress provided with cannon, were the most noteworthy signs of the rapid transformation
of the manners and customs of the natives.

Fifty years had now elapsed since the discovery of most of the islands of Oceania, and everywhere
changes had taken place as sudden as those in the Sandwich Islands.

"The fur trade," says Desborough Cooley, carried on with the north-west coast of America, "has
effected a wonderful revolution in the Sandwich Islands, which from their situation offered
an advantageous shelter for ships engaged in it. Among these islands the fur-traders wintered,
refitted their vessels, and replenished their stock of fresh provisions; and, as summer approached,
returned to complete their cargo on the coast of America. Iron tools and, above all, guns were
eagerly sought for by the islanders in exchange for their provisions; and the mercenery traders,
regardless of consequences, readily gratified their desires. Fire-arms and ammunition being
the most profitable stock to traffic with were supplied them in abundance. Hence the Sandwich
islanders soon became formidable to their visitors; they seized on several small vessels, and
displayed an energy tinctured at first with barbarity, but indicating great capabilities of
social improvement. At this period, one of those extraordinary characters which seldom fail
to come forth when fate is charged with great events, completed the revolution, which had its
origin in the impulse of Europeans. Tame-tame-hah, a chief, who had made himself conspicuous
during the last and unfortunate visit of Cook to those islands, usurped the authority of king,
subdued the neighbouring islands with an army of 16,000 men, and made his conquests subservient
to his grand schemes of improvement. He knew the superiority of Europeans, and was proud to
imitate them. Already, in 1796, when Captain Broughton visited those islands, the usurper sent
to ask him whether he should salute him with great guns. He always kept Englishmen about him
as ministers and advisers. In 1817, he is said to have had an army of 7000 men, armed with
muskets, among whom were at least fifty Europeans. Tame-tame-hah, who began his career in blood
and usurpation, lived to gain the sincere love and admiration of his subjects, who regarded
him as more than human, and mourned his death with tears of warmer affection than often bedew
the ashes of royalty."

Such was the state of things when the Russian expedition put in at Waihou. The young king Rio-Rio
was in England with his wife, and the government of the archipelago was in the hands of the
queen-mother, Kaahou Manou.

Kotzebue took advantage of the latter and of the first minister both being absent on a neighbouring
island, to pay a visit to another wife of Kamea-Mea.

"The apartment," says the traveller, "was furnished in the European fashion, with chairs, tables,
and looking-glasses. In one corner stood an immensely large bed with silk curtains; the floor
was covered with fine mats, and on these, in the middle of the room, lay Nomahanna, extended
on her stomach, her head turned towards the door, and her arms supported on a silk pillow....
Nomahanna, who appeared at the utmost not more than forty years old, was exactly six feet two
inches high, and rather more than two ells in circumference.... Her coal-black hair was neatly
plaited, at the top of a head as round as a ball; her flat nose and thick projecting lips were
certainly not very handsome, yet was her countenance on the whole prepossessing and agreeable."

The "good lady" remembered having seen Kotzebue ten years before. She, therefore, received
him graciously, but she could not speak of her husband without tears in her eyes, and her grief
did not appear to be assumed. In order that the date of his death should be ever-present to
her mind she had had the inscription 6th May, 1819, branded on her arm.

A zealous Christian, like most of the population, the queen took Kotzebue to the church, a
vast but simple building, not nearly so crowded as that at Otaheite. Nomahanna seemed to be
very intelligent, she knew how to read and was specially enthusiastic about writing, that art
which connects us with the absent. Being anxious to give the commander a proof alike of her
affection and of her acquirements she sent him a letter by hand which it had taken her several
weeks to concoct.

The other ladies did not like to be outdone, and Kotzebue found himself overwhelmed with documents.
The only means to check this epistolatory inundation was to weigh anchor, which the captain
did without loss of time.

Before his departure he received queen Nomahanna on board. Her Majesty appeared in her robes
of ceremony, consisting of a magnificent peach-coloured silk dress embroidered with black,
evidently originally made for a European, and consequently too tight and too short for its
wearer. People could, therefore, see not only the feet, beside which those of Charlemagne would
have looked like a Chinaman's, and which were cased in huge men's boots, but also a pair of
fat, brown, naked legs resembling the balustrades of a terrace. A collar of red and yellow
feathers, a garland of natural flowers, serving as a gorget, and a hat of Leghorn straw, trimmed
with artificial flowers, completed this fine but absurd costume.

Nomahanna went over the ship, asking questions about everything, and at last, worn out with
seeing so many wonders, betook herself to the captain's cabin, where a good collation was spread
for her. The queen flung herself upon a couch, but the fragile article of furniture was unable
to sustain so much majesty, and gave way beneath the weight of a princess, whose embonpoint
had doubtless had a good deal to do with her elevation to such high rank.

After this halt Kotzebue returned to New Archangel, where he remained until the 30th July,
1825. He then paid another visit to the Sandwich Islands a short time after Admiral Byron had
brought back the remains of the king and queen. The archipelago was then at peace, its prosperity
was continually on the increase, the influence of the missionaries was confirmed, and the education
of the young monarch was in the hands of Missionary Bingham. The inhabitants were deeply touched
by the honours accorded by the English to the remains of their sovereigns, and the day seemed
to be not far distant when European customs would completely supersede those of the natives.

Some provisions having been embarked at Waihou, the explorer made for Radak Islands, identified
the Pescadores, forming the southern extremity of that chain, discovered the Eschscholtz group,
a short distance off, and touched at Guam on the 15th October. On the 23rd January, 1826, he
left Manilla after a stay of some months, during which constant intercourse with the natives
had enabled him to add greatly to our knowledge of the geography and natural history of the
Philippine islands. A new Spanish governor had arrived with a large reinforcement of troops,
and had so completely crushed all agitation that the colonists had quite given up their scheme
of separating themselves from Spain.

On the 10th July, 1826, the Predpriatie returned to Cronstadt, after a voyage extending over
three years, during which she had visited the north-west coast of America, the Aleutian Islands,
Kamtchatka, and the Sea of Oktoksh; surveyed minutely a great part of the Radak Islands, and
obtained fresh information on the changes through which the people of Oceania were passing.
Thanks to the ardour of Chamisso and Professor Eschscholtz, many specimens of natural history
had been collected, and the latter published a description of more than 2000 animals, as well
as some curious details on the mode of formation of the Coral islands in the South Seas.

The English government had now resumed with eagerness the study of the tantalizing problem,
the solution of which had been sought so long in vain. We allude to the finding of the north-west
passage. When Parry by sea and Franklin by land were trying to reach Behring Strait, Captain
Frederick William Beechey received instructions to penetrate as far north as possible by way
of the same strait so as to meet the other explorers, who would doubtless arrive in a state
of exhaustion from fatigue and privation.

The Blossom, Captain Beechey commander, set sail from Spithead on the 19th May, 1825, and after
doubling Cape Horn on the 26th December, entered the Pacific Ocean. After a short stay off
the coast of Chili, Beechey visited Easter Island, where the same incidents which had marked
Kotzebue's visit were repeated. The same eager reception on the part of the natives, who swam
to the Blossom or brought their paltry merchandise to it in canoes, and the same shower of
stones and blows from clubs when the English landed, repulsed, as in the Russian explorer's
time, with a rapid discharge of shot.

On the 4th December, Captain Beechey sighted an island completely overgrown with vegetation.
This was the spot famous for the discovery on it of the descendants of the mutineers of the
Bounty, who landed on it after the enactment of a tragedy, which at the end of last century
had excited intense public interest in England.

In 1781 Lieutenant Bligh, one of the officers who had distinguished himself under Cook, was
appointed to the command of the Bounty, and received orders to go to Otaheite, there to obtain
specimens of the breadfruit-tree and other of its vegetable productions for transportation
to the Antilles, then generally known amongst the English as the Western Indies. After doubling
Cape Horn, Bligh cast anchor in the Bay of Matavai, where he shipped a cargo of breadfruit-trees,
proceeding thence to Ramouka, one of the Tonga Isles, for more of the same valuable growth.
Thus far no special incident marked the course of the voyage, which seemed likely to end happily.
But the haughty character and stern, despotic manners of the commander had alienated from him
the affections of nearly the whole of his crew. A plot was formed against him which was carried
out before sunrise on the 28th April, off Tofona.

Surprised by the mutineers whilst still in bed, Bligh was bound and gagged before he could
defend himself, and dragged on deck in his night-shirt, and after a mock trial, presided over
by Lieutenant Christian Fletcher, he, with eighteen men who remained faithful to him, was lowered
into a boat containing a few provisions, and abandoned in the open sea.

After enduring agonies of hunger and thirst, and escaping from terrible storms and from the
teeth of the savage natives of Tofona, Bligh succeeded in reaching Timor Island, where he received
an enthusiastic welcome.

Perilous, indeed, for it had lasted no less than forty-one days in latitudes but little known,
in an open boat, with insufficient food, want and exposure causing infinite suffering. Yet
in this voyage of more than 1500 leagues but one man was lost, a sailor who fell a victim at
the beginning of the journey to the natives of Tofona.

The fate of the mutineers was strange, and more than one lesson may be learnt from it.

They made for Otaheite, where provisions were obtained, and those who had been least active
in the mutiny were abandoned, and thence Christian set sail with eight sailors, who elected
to remain with him, and some twenty-two natives, men and women from Otaheite and Toubonai.
Nothing more was heard of them!

As for those who remained at Otaheite, they were taken prisoners in 1791 by Captain Edwards
of the Pandora, sent out by the English Government in search of them and the other mutineers,
with orders to bring them to England. Of the ten who were brought home by the Pandora, only
three were condemned to death.

Twenty years passed by before the slightest light was thrown on the fate of Christian and those
he took with him.

In 1808 an American trading-vessel touched at Pitcairn, there to complete her cargo of seal-skins.
The captain imagined the island to be uninhabited, but to his very great surprise a canoe presently
approached his ship manned by three young men of colour, who spoke English very well. Greatly
astonished, the commander questioned them, and learnt that their father had served under Bligh.

The fate of the latter was now known to the whole world, and its discussion had lightened the
tedious hours in the forecastles of vessels of every nationality, and the American captain,
reminded by the singular incident related above of the disappearance of so many of the mutineers
of the Bounty, landed on the island, where he met an Englishman named Smith, who had belonged
to the crew of that vessel, and who made the following confession.

When he left Otaheite, Christian made direct for Pitcairn, attracted to it by its lonely situation,
south of the Pomautou Islands, and out of the general track of vessels. After landing the provisions
of the Bounty and taking away all the fittings which could be of any use, the mutineers burnt
the vessel not only with a view to removing all trace of their whereabouts, but also to prevent
the escape of any of their number.

From the first the sight of the extensive marshes led them to believe the island to be uninhabited,
and they were soon convinced of the justice of this opinion. Huts were built and land was cleared;
but the English charitably assigned to the natives, whom they had carried off or who had elected
to join them, the position of slaves. Two years passed by without any serious dissensions arising,
but at the end of that time the natives laid a plot against the whites, of which, however,
the latter were informed by an Otaheitan woman, and the two leaders paid for their abortive
attempt with their lives.

Two more years of peace and tranquillity ensued, and then another plot was laid, this time
resulting in the massacre of Christian and five of his comrades. The murder, however, was avenged
by the native women, who mourned for their English lovers and killed the surviving men of Otaheite.

A little later the discovery of a plant, from which a kind of brandy could be made, caused
the death of one of the four Englishmen still remaining, another was murdered by his companions,
a third died a natural death, and the last one, Smith, took the name of Adams and lived on
at the head of a community, consisting of ten women and nineteen children, the eldest of whom
were but seven or eight years old.

This man, who had reflected on his errors and repented of them, now led a new life, fulfilling
the duties of father, priest, and sovereign, his combined firmness and justice acquiring for
him an all-powerful influence over his motley subjects.

This strange teacher of morality, who in his youth had set all laws at defiance, and to whom
no obligation was sacred, now preached pity, love, and sympathy, arranged regular marriages
between the children of different parents, his little community thriving lustily under the
mild yet firm control of one who had but lately turned from his own evil ways.

Such at the time of Beechey's arrival was the state of the colony at Pitcairn. The navigator,
well received by the inhabitants, whose virtuous conduct recalled the golden age, remained
amongst them eighteen days. The village consisted of clean, well-built huts, surrounded by
pandanus and cocoa-palms; the fields were well cultivated, and under Adams' tuition the young
people had made implements of agriculture of really extraordinary excellence. The faces of
these half breeds were good-looking and pleasant in expression, and their figures were well-proportioned,
showing unusual muscular development.

After leaving Pitcairn, Beechey visited Crescent, Gambier, Hood, Clermont, Tonnerre, Serles,
Whitsunday, Queen-Charlotte, Tehaï, and the Lancer Islands, all in the Pomautou group, and
an islet to which he gave the name of Byam-Martin.

Here the explorer met a native named Ton-Wari, who had been shipwrecked in a storm. Having
left Anaa with 500 fellow-countrymen in three canoes to render homage to Pomaré III., who had
just ascended the throne, Ton-Wari had been driven out of his course by westerly winds. These
were succeeded by variable breezes, and provisions were soon so completely exhausted that the
survivors had to feed on the bodies of those who were the first to succumb. Finally Ton-Wari
arrived at Barrow Island in the centre of the Dangerous Archipelago, where he obtained a small
stock of provisions, and after a long delay, his canoe having been stove in off Byam-Martin,
once more put to sea.

Beechey yielded under considerable persuasion to Ton-Wari's entreaty to be received on board
with his wife and children and taken to Otaheite. The next day, by one of those strange chances
seldom occurring except in fiction, Beechey stopped at Heïon, where Ton-Wari met his brother,
who had supposed him to be long since dead. After the first transports of delight and surprise
the two natives sat down side by side, and holding each others hands related their several
adventures.

Beechey left Heïon on the 10th February, sighted Melville and Croker Islands, and cast anchor
on the 18th off Otaheite, where he had some difficulty in obtaining provisions. The natives
now demanded good Chilian dollars and European clothing, both of which were altogether wanting
on the Blossom.

After receiving a visit from the queen-mother, Beechey was invited to a soirée given in his
honour in the palace at Papeïti. When the English arrived, however, they found everybody sound
asleep, the hostess having forgotten all about her invitation, and gone to bed earlier than
usual. She received her guests none the less cordially however, and organized a little dance
in spite of the remonstrances of the missionaries; only the fête had to be conducted so to
speak in silence, that the noise might not reach the ears of the police on duty on the beach.
From this incident we can guess the amount of liberty the missionary Pritchard allowed to the
most exalted personages of Otaheite. What must the discipline then have been for the common
herd of the natives!

On the 3rd April the young king paid a visit to Beechey, who gave him, on behalf of the Admiralty,
a fine fowling-piece. Very friendly was the intercourse which ensued, and the good influence
the English missionaries had obtained was strengthened by the cordiality and tact of the ship's
officers.

Leaving Otaheite on the 26th April, Beechey reached the Sandwich Islands, where he remained
some ten days, and then set sail for Behring Strait and the Arctic Ocean. His instructions
were to skirt along the North American coast as far as the state of the ice would permit. The
Blossom made a halt in Kotzebue Bay, a desolate, forbidding, and inhospitable spot, where the
English had several interviews with the natives without obtaining any information about Franklin
and his people. At last Beechey sent forward one of the ship's boats, under command of Lieutenant
Elson, to seek the intrepid explorer. Elson was, however, unable to pass Point Barrow (N. lat.
71 degrees 23 minutes) and was compelled to return to the Blossom, which in her turn was driven
back to the entrance of the strait by the ice on the 13th October, the weather being clear
and the frost of extreme severity.

In order to turn to account the winter season, Beechey visited San Francisco and cast anchor
yet again off Honolulu in the Sandwich Islands. Thanks to the liberal and enlightened policy
of the government, this archipelago was now rapidly growing in prosperity. The number of houses
had increased, the town was gradually acquiring a European appearance, the harbour was frequented
by numerous English and American vessels, and a national navy numbering five brigs and eight
schooners had sprung into being. Agriculture was in a flourishing condition; coffee, tea, spices,
were cultivated in extensive plantations, and efforts were being made to utilize the luxuriant
sugar-cane forests native to the archipelago.

After a stay in April at the mouth of the Canton River, the explorers surveyed the Liu-Kiu
archipelago, a chain of islands connecting Japan with Formosa, and the Bonin-Sima group, districts
in which no animals were seen but big green turtles.

This exploration over, the Blossom resumed her northerly course, but the atmospheric conditions
were less favourable than before, and it was impossible this time to penetrate further than
N. lat. 70 degrees 40 minutes. Beechey left provisions, clothes, and instructions on the coast
in this neighbourhood in case Parry or Franklin should get as far. The explorer then cruised
about until the 6th October, when he decided with the greatest regret to return to England.
He touched at Monterey, San Francisco, San-Blas, and Valparaiso, doubled Cape Horn, cast anchor
at Rio de Janeiro, and finally arrived off Spithead on the 21st October.

We must now give an account of the expedition of the Russian Captain Lütke, which was fruitful
of most important results. The explorer's own relation of his adventures is written in a most
amusing and spirited style, and from it we shall therefore quote largely.

The Seniavine and the Möller were two transport ships built in Russia, both of which were good
sea-going boats. The latter, however, was a very slow sailer, which unfortunately kept the
two vessels apart for the greater part of the voyage. Lütke commanded the Seniavine, and Stanioukowitch
the Möller.

The two vessels set sail from Cronstadt on the 1st September, 1828, and touched at Copenhagen
and Plymouth, where scientific instruments were purchased. Hardly had they left the Channel
before they were separated. The Seniavine, whose movements we shall most particularly follow,
touched at Teneriffe, where Lütke hoped to meet his consort.

From the 4th to the 8th November, Teneriffe had been devastated by a terrific storm such as
had not been seen since the Conquest. Three vessels had perished in the very roadstead of Santa
Cruz, and two others thrown upon the coast had gone to pieces. Torrents swollen by a tremendous
downpour had destroyed gardens, walls, and buildings, laid waste plantations, all but demolished
one fort, swept down a number of houses in the town, and rendered several streets impassable.
Three or four hundred persons had met their deaths in this convulsion of nature, and the damage
done was estimated at several millions of piastres.

In January the two vessels met again at Rio de Janeiro, and kept together as far as Cape Horn,
where they encountered the usual storms and fogs, and were again separated. The Seniavine then
made for Conception.

"On the 15th May," says Lütke, "we were not more than eight miles from the nearest coast, but
a dense fog hid it from us. In the night this fog lifted, and at daybreak a scene of indescribable
grandeur and magnificence met our eyes. The serrated chain of the Andes, with its pointed peaks,
stood out against an azure blue sky lit up by the first rays of the morning sun. I will not
add to the number of those who have exhausted themselves in vain efforts to transmit to others
their own sensations at the first sight of such scenes. They are as indescribable as the majesty
of the scene itself. The variety of the colours, the light, which as the sun rose gradually
spread over the sky, and the clouds were alike of inimitable beauty. To our great regret this
spectacle, like everything most sublime in nature, did not last long. As the atmosphere became
flooded with light the huge masses of clouds seemed with one accord to plunge into the deep,
and the sun, appearing above the horizon, removed every trace of them."

Lütke's opinion of Conception does not agree with that of some of his predecessors. He had
not yet forgotten the exuberant richness of the vegetation of the Bay of Rio de Janeiro, so
that he found this new coast poor. As far as he could judge, during a very short stay, the
inhabitants were more affable and civilized than the people of the same class in many other
countries.

When he reached Valparaiso, Lütke met the Möller setting sail for Kamtchatka. The crews bid
each other good-bye, and thenceforth the two vessels took different directions.

The first excursion of the officers and naturalists of Lütke's party was to the celebrated
"quebradas."

"These," says the explorer, "are ravines in the mountains, crowded so to speak with the little
huts containing the greater part of the people of Valparaiso. The most densely populated of
these 'quebradas' is that rising at the south-west corner of the town. The granite, which is
there laid bare, serves as a strong foundation for the buildings, and protects them from the
destructive effects of earthquakes. Communication between the town and the different houses
is carried on by means of narrow paths without supports or steps, which are carried along the
slopes of the rocks, and on which the children play and run about like chamois. The few houses
here belong to foreigners. Little paths lead up to them, and some have steps, which the Chilians
look upon as a superfluous and altogether useless luxury. A staircase of tiled or palm-branch
roofs below and above an amphitheatre of gates and gardens present a curious spectacle. At
first I kept up with the naturalists, but they presently brought me to a place where I could
not advance or retire a step, which decided me to return with one of my officers, and to leave
them there with a hearty wish that they might bring their heads back safely to our lodgings.
As for myself I expected to lose mine a thousand times before I got down again."

On their return from an arduous excursion, a few leagues from Valparaiso, the marines were
astonished at being arrested as they rode into the town, by a patrol, who in spite of their
remonstrances compelled them to dismount.

"It was Holy Thursday," says Lütke, "and from that day to Holy Saturday no one is here permitted
under pain of a severe penalty either to ride, sing, dance, play on any instrument, or wear
a hat. All business, work, and amusement are strictly forbidden during that time. The hill
in the centre of the town with the theatre upon it is converted for the time being into a Golgotha.
In the centre of a railed-in space rises a crucifix with numerous tapers and flowers about
it and female figures kneeling on either side representing the witnesses of the Passion of
our Lord. Pious souls come here to obtain absolution from their sins by loud prayers. I saw
none but female penitents, not a single man was there amongst them. Most of them were doubtless
very certain of obtaining the divine favour, for they came up playing and laughing, only assuming
a contrite air when close to the object of their devotion, before which they knelt for a few
minutes, resuming their pranks and laughter again directly they turned away."

The intolerance and superstition met with by the visitors at every turn made the explorer reflect
deeply. He regretted seeing so much force and so many resources which might have promoted the
intellectual progress and material prosperity of the country wasted on perpetual revolutions.

To Lütke nothing less resembled a valley of Paradise than Valparaiso and its environs: rugged
mountains, broken by deep quebradas, a sandy plain, in the centre of which rises the town,
with the lofty heights of the Andes in the background, do not, strictly speaking, form an Eden.

The traces of the terrible earthquake of 1823 were not yet entirely effaced, and here and there
large spaces covered with ruins were still to be seen.

On the 15th April, the Seniavine set sail for New Archangel, where she arrived on the 24th
June, after a voyage unmarked by any special incident. The necessity for repairing the effects
of the wear and tear of a voyage of ten months, and of disembarking the provisions for the
company of which the Seniavine was the bearer, detained Captain Lütke in the Bay of Sitka for
five weeks.

This part of the coast of North America presents a wild but picturesque appearance. Lofty mountains
clothed to their very peaks with dense and gloomy forests form the background of the picture.
At the entrance of the bay rises Mount Edgecumbe, an extinct volcano 2800 feet above the sea-level.
On entering the bay the visitor finds himself in a labyrinth of islands, behind which rise
the fortress, towers, and church of New Archangel, which consists of but one row of houses
with gardens, a hospital, a timber-yard, and outside the palisades a large village of Kaloche
Indians. At this time the population consisted of a mixture of Russians, Creoles, and Aleutians,
numbering some 800 altogether, of whom three-eighths were in the service of the company. This
population, however, fluctuates very much according to the season. In the summer almost every
one is away at the chase, and no sooner does autumn bring the people before they are all off
again fishing.

New Archangel does not offer too many attractions in the way of amusements. Truth to tell,
it is one of the dullest places imaginable, inexpressibly gloomy, where autumn seems to reign
all through the year except for three months, when snow falls continuously. All this, however,
does not of course affect the passing visitor, and for the resident there is nothing to keep
up his spirits but a good stock of philosophy or a stern determination not to die of hunger.
There is a good deal of remunerative trade with California, the natives, and foreign vessels.

The chief furs obtained by Aleutians who hunt for the Company are those of the otter, the beaver,
the fox, and the souslic. The natives also hunt the walrus, seal, and whale, not to speak of
the herring, the cod, salmon, turbot, lote, perch, and tsouklis, a shell fish found in Queen
Charlotte's Islands, used by the Company as a medium of exchange with the Americans.

As for these Americans they seem to be all of one race between the 46th and 60th degrees of
N. lat., such at least is the conclusion to which we are led by the study of their manners,
customs, and languages.

The Kaloches of Sitka claim a man of the name of Elkh as the founder of their race, favoured
by the protection of the raven, first cause of all things.[4] Strange to say, this bird also
plays an important part amongst the Kadiaks, who are Esquimaux. According to Lütke, the Kaloches
have a tradition of a deluge and some fables which recall those of the Greek mythology.

[Footnote 4: The raven was regarded by these races with superstitious dread, as having the
power of healing diseases, &c.--Trans.]

Their religion is nothing more than a kind of Chamanism or belief in the power of the Chamans
or magicians to ward off diseases, &c. They do not recognize a supreme God, but they believe
in evil spirits, and in sorcerers who foretell the future, heal the sick, and transmit their
office from father to son.

They believe the soul to be immortal, and that the spirits of their chieftains do not mix with
those of the common people. Slaves are slaves still after death; the far from consolatory nature
of this creed is obvious. The government is patriarchal; the natives are divided into tribes,
the members of which have the figures of animals as signs, after which they are also sometimes
named. We meet for instance with the wolf, the raven, the bear, the eagle, &c.

The slaves of the Kaloches are prisoners taken in war, and very miserable is their lot. Their
masters hold the power of life and death over them. In some ceremonies, that on the death of
a chief, for instance, the slaves who are no longer of use are sacrificed, or else their liberty
is given to them.[5]

[Footnote 5: The aim being to give up the slaves as property, it was a matter of indifference
whether they were killed or set at liberty.--Trans.]

Suspicious and crafty, cruel and vindictive, the Kaloches are neither better nor worse than
the neighbouring tribes. Hardened to fatigue, brave but idle, they leave all the housework
to their wives, of whom they have many, polygamy being an institution amongst them.

On leaving Sitka, Lütke made for Ounalashka. Ilioluk is the chief trading establishment on
that island, but it only contains some twelve Russians and ten Aleutians of both sexes.

This island has a good many productions which tend to make life pass pleasantly. It is rich
in good pastures, and cattle-breeding is largely carried on, but it is almost entirely wanting
in timber, the inhabitants being obliged to pick up the débris flung up by the sea, which sometimes
includes whole trunks of cypress, camphor-trees, and a kind of wood which smells like roses.

At the time of Lütke's visit the people of the Fox Islands had adopted to a great extent Russian
manners and costumes. They were all Christians. The Aleutians are a hardy, kind-hearted, agile
race, almost living on the sea.

Since 1826 several eruptions of lava have caused terrible devastation in these islands. In
May, 1827, the Shishaldin volcano opened a new crater, and vomited forth flames.

Lütke's instructions obliged him to explore St. Matthew's Island, which Cook had called Gore
Island. The hydrographical survey was successful beyond the highest expectations, but the Russians
could do nothing towards learning anything of the natural history of the island, for they were
not allowed to land at all.

In the meantime the winter with its usual storms and fogs was rapidly drawing on. It was of
no use hoping to get to Behring Strait, and Lütke therefore made for Kamtchatka after touching
at Behring Island. He remained three weeks at Petropaulovsky, which he employed in landing
his cargo and preparing for his winter campaign.

Lütke's instructions were now to spend the winter in the exploration of the Caroline Islands.
He decided to go first to Ualan Island, which had been discovered by the French navigator Duperrey.
Here a safe harbour enabled him to make some experiments with the pendulum.

On his way Lütke sought in vain for Colonnas Island in N. lat. 26 degrees 9 minutes, W. long.
128 degrees. He was equally unsuccessful in his search for Dexter and St. Bartholomew Islands,
though he identified the Brown coral group discovered by Butler in 1794 and arrived safely
off Ualan on the 4th December.

From the first the relations between the natives of this island and the Russians were extremely
satisfactory. Many of the former came on board, and showed so much confidence in their visitors
as to remain all night, though the vessel was still in motion.

It was only with great difficulty that the Seniavine entered Coquille harbour. Following the
example of Duperrey, who had set up his observatory on the islet of Matanial, Lütke landed
there and took his observations, whilst his people traded with the natives, who were, throughout
his stay, peaceful, friendly, and civil. To check their thieving propensities, however, a chief
was kept as a hostage for a couple of days, and one canoe was burnt, these new measures being
completely successful.

"We are glad to be able to declare in the face of the world," says Lütke, "that our stay of
three weeks at Ualan cost not a drop of human blood, but that we were able to leave these friendly
islanders without enlightening them further on the use of our fire-arms, which they looked
upon as suitable only for the killing of birds. I don't think there is another instance of
the kind in the records of any previous voyages in the South Seas."

After leaving Ualan, Lütke had a vain search for the Musgrave Islands, marked on Kruzenstern's
map, and soon discovered a large island, surrounded by a coral reef, which had escaped the
notice of Duperrey, and is known as Puinipet, or Pornabi. Some very large and fine canoes,
each manned by fourteen men, and some smaller ones, worked by two natives only, soon surrounded
the vessel. Their inmates, with fierce faces and blood-shot eyes, were noisy and blustering,
and did a good deal of shouting, gesticulating, and dancing before they could make up their
minds to trust themselves on board the Seniavine.

It would have been impossible to land, except by force, as the native canoes completely surrounded
the vessel, and when an attempt at disembarkation was made, the savages surrounded the ship's
boat, only retiring before the warlike attitude of the sailors and a volley from the guns of
the Seniavine.

Lütke had not time to examine thoroughly his discovery, to which he gave the name of the Seniavine
Archipelago. The information he collected on the people of the Puinipet Islands is, therefore,
not very trustworthy. According to him they do not belong to the same race as those of Ualan,
but resemble rather the Papuans, the nearest of whom are those of New Ireland, seven hundred
miles away.

After another vain search, this time for Saint Augustine's Island, he sighted the Cora of Los
Vaherites, also called Seven, or Raven Island, discovered in 1773 by the Spaniard Felipe Tompson.

The navigator next saw the Mortlock Archipelago, the old Lugunor group, known to Torrés as
the Lugullos, the people of which resemble those of Ualan. He landed on the principal of these
islands, which he found to be one huge garden of cocoa palms and breadfruit-trees.

The natives enjoy a centre degree of civilization. They weave and dye the fibres of the banana
and cocoa-nut palms, as do those of Ualan and Puinipet. Their fishing-tackle does credit to
their inventive faculties, especially a sort of case constructed of small sticks and split
bamboo-canes, which the fish cannot get out of when once in. They also use nets of the shape
of large wallets, lines, and harpoons.

Their canoes, in which they spend more than half their lives, are wonderfully adapted to their
requirements. The large ones, which are a very great trouble to build, and which are kept in
sheds constructed specially for them, are twenty-six feet long, two and a half wide, and four
deep. They are furnished with gimbals, the cross-pieces being connected by a rafter. On the
other side there is a small platform, four feet square, and furnished with a roof, under which
they are accustomed to keep their provisions. These pirogues have a triangular sail, which
is made of matting woven from bandanus leaves, and is attached to two yards. In tacking about
they drop the sail, and turn the mast towards the other end of the canoe, to which, at the
same time, they have passed the fastening of the sail, so that the pirogue moves forward by
its other extremity.

Lütke next sighted the Namuluk group, the inhabitants of which do not differ at all from the
people of Lugunor, and he proved the identity of Hogolu Island--already described by Duperrey--with
Quirosa. He then visited the Namnuïto group, the first stratum of a number of islands, or of
one large island which will some day exist in this part of the world.

Lütke, who was in want of biscuits and other articles, which he hoped to obtain at Guam, or
from vessels at anchor in that port, now set sail for the Marianne Islands, where he counted
upon being able to repeat some new experiments with the pendulum, in which Freycinet had found
an important anomaly of gravitation.[6]

[Footnote 6: "From numerous experiments," says Freycinet, "with the pendulum, collected at
our observatory at Agagna, in lat. 13 degrees 27 minutes 511 seconds 5 N. ... at the level
of the sea, and with the thermometer at +20 degrees centig., we were shown that the pendulum
which, in the same circumstances, would make at Paris 86,400 oscillations in 24 mean solar
hours would here make 86,295 ^osc .013 in the same time."--Trans.]

Great, however, was his surprise when he arrived to find not a sign of life at Guam. No flags
waved above the two ports, the silence of death reigned everywhere, and but for the presence
of a schooner at anchor in the inner harbour, it might have been a desert island. There was
hardly anybody about on shore, and the few people there were were half savage, from whom it
was all but impossible to obtain the slightest information. Fortunately, an English deserter
came and offered his services to Lütke, who sent him to the governor with a letter, which elicited
a satisfactory reply.

The governor was the same Medinella whose hospitality had been lauded by Kotzebue and Freycinet.
There was, therefore, no difficulty in obtaining permission to set up an observatory, and to
take to it the necessary provisions. The stay at Guam was, however, saddened by an accident
to Lütke, who wounded himself severely in the thumb with his own gun when hunting.

The repairing and refitting of the Seniavine, with the taking in of wood and water, delayed
the explorer at Guam until the 19th March. During this time Lütke was able to verify the information
collected ten years ago by Freycinet in his stay of two months in the Governor's own house.
Things had not changed at all since the French traveller's visit.

As it was not yet time to go north, Lütke made for the Caroline Islands, viâ the Swedes Islands.
The inhabitants seemed to him to be better made than their neighbours on the west, from whom,
however, they differ in no other particulars. The Faraulep, Ulie, Ifuluk, and Euripeg Islands
were successively examined, and on the 27th April the explorer started for the Bonin Islands,
where he learnt that his exploration of that group had been anticipated by Beechey. He, therefore,
took no hydrographical surveys. Two of the crew of a whaling-vessel, which had been shipwrecked
on the coast, were still living at Bonin Sima.

Since the rise of the great fisheries, this Archipelago has been frequented by numerous whalemen,
who here find a safe port at all seasons, plenty of wood and water, turtles for six months
of the year, fish, and immense quantities of anti-scorbutic plants, including the delicious
savoy cabbage.

"The majestic height and the vigour of the trees," says Lütke, "the productions of the tropical
and temperate zones, alternating with each other, bear witness at once to the fertility of
the soil and the salubrity of the climate. Most of our vegetables and pot-herbs, perhaps, indeed,
all of them would certainly flourish well, as would also wheat, rice, and maize, nor could
a better climate be desired for the cultivation of the vine. Domestic animals of every kind
and bees would multiply rapidly. In a word, a small and industrious colony would shortly convert
this little group into a fertile and flourishing settlement."

On the 9th June, after a week's delay for want of wind, the Seniavine entered Petropaulovsky,
where it was retained taking in provisions until the 26th. A whole series of surveys were taken
during this interval, of the coasts of Kamtchatka, and of the Kodiak and Tchouktchi districts,
interrupted, however, by visits to Karaghinsk Island, the bay of St. Lawrence, and the gulf
of Santa Cruz.

During one of these visits, the captain met with a strange adventure. He had been for several
days on a friendly footing with the Tchouktchis, whose knowledge of the people and customs
of Russia he endeavoured to increase.

"These natives," he says, "were friendly and polite, and endeavoured to pay back our jokes
and tricks in our own coin. I softly patted the cheek of a sturdy Tchouktchi as a sign of kindly
feeling, and suddenly received in return a box on the ear which knocked me down. Recovered
from my astonishment, there I saw my Tchouktchi with a laughing face, looking like a man who
has just given proof of his politeness and tact. He too had meant to give me merely a gentle
tap, but it was with a hand only accustomed to deal with reindeer."

The travellers were also witnesses of some proofs of the skill of a Tchouktchi conjurer, or
chaman, who went behind a curtain, from which his audience soon heard a voice like the howl
of a wild beast, accompanied by blows on a tambourine with a whale-bone. The curtain then rose,
revealing the sorcerer balancing himself, and accompanying his own voice with blows on his
drum, which he held close to his ear. Presently he flung off his jacket, leaving himself naked
to the waist, took a polished stone, which he gave to Lütke to hold, took it away again, and
as he passed one hand over the other the stone disappeared. Then showing a tumour on his shoulder,
he pretended that the stone was in it; turned over the tumour, extracted the stone from it,
and prophesied a favourable issue of the journey of the Russians.

The conjuror was congratulated on his skill, and a knife was given to him as a token of gratitude.
Taking this knife in his hand, he put out his tongue, and began to cut it. His mouth became
full of blood, and he finally cut a piece of his tongue off, and held the piece out in his
hand. Here the curtain fell, probably because the skill of the professor of legerdemain could
go no further.

The people inhabiting the north-east corner of Asia are known under the general name of Tchouktchis.
This includes two races, one nomad, like the Samoyedes, called the Reindeer Tchouktchis; the
other, living in fixed habitations, called the sedentary Tchouktchis. The mode of life, the
physiognomy, and the very language of these two races differ. The idiom spoken by the sedentary
Tchouktchis has great affinity with that of the Esquimaux, whom they also resemble in their
mode of building their huts and leather boats, and in the instruments they use.

Lütke did not see many Reindeer Tchouktchis, so that he could add nothing to the information
obtained by his predecessors. He was of opinion, however, that they had been painted in unfairly
gloomy colours, and that their turbulence and wildness had been grossly exaggerated.

The sedentary Tchouktchis, generally called Namollos, spend the winter in sheds, and the summer
in huts covered with skins. The latter usually each serve for several families.

"The sons and their wives, the daughters and their husbands," says the narrative, "live together
with their parents, and vice versâ. Each family occupies one division of the back part of the
hut, curtained off from the others. The curtains are made of reindeer-skins, sewn into the
shape of a bell. They are fastened to the beams of the ceiling, and reach to the ground. With
the aid of the grease they burn in cold weather, two, three, and sometimes more persons so
warm the air with their breath in these hermetically sealed positions that all clothing is
superfluous, even with the severest frost, but only Tchouktchi lungs are fitted to respire
in such an atmosphere. In the outer part of the hut cooking-utensils, pottery, baskets, seal-skin
trunks, &c., are kept. Here too is the hearth, if we can so call the spot where burn a few
sticks of brushwood, painfully collected in the marsh, or when they are not to be obtained,
whale-bones floating in grease. Round about the hut on wooden dryers, black and disgusting
looking pieces of seal's flesh are exposed to view." These people lead a miserable life. They
feed upon the half-raw flesh of seals and walruses hunted by themselves, or on that of whales
flung up by the waves on the beach. The dog is the only domestic animal they possess, and they
treat it badly enough, although the poor creatures are very affectionate and render them great
services, now towing along their canoes, now dragging their sledges over the snow.

After a second stay of five weeks at Petropaulovski, the Seniavine left Kamtchatka, on the
10th of November, on its way back to Europe. Before reaching Manilla, Lütke made a cruise in
the northern part of the Caroline Archipelago, which he had not had time to visit during the
preceding winter. He saw in succession the islands of Marileu, Falulu, Faïu, Namuniuto, Magur,
Faraulep, Eap, Mogmog, and found at Manilla the sloop, the Möller which was waiting his arrival.

The Caroline Archipelago embraces an immense space, and the Marianne Islands, as well as the
Radak group, might fitly be included in it, as containing a population perfectly identical
in race. For a long time the old geographers had had for their guidance only the charts of
missionaries who, lacking alike the education and the appliances necessary to estimate accurately
the size, position, and relative distance of all these archipelagoes, had attached notable
importance to them, and often fixed at a considerable number of degrees the extent of a group
which covered only a few miles.

Thus navigators accepted their guidance with wise caution. Freycinet was the first to infuse
a little order into this chaos, and, thanks to his meeting with Kadu and Don Louis Torrès,
he was able to identify later with earlier discoveries. Lütke did his part--and that not a
small part--in the settling of an accurate and scientific chart of an archipelago which had
long been the terror of navigators.

The learned Russian explorer is not of the same opinion as Lesson, one of his predecessors,
who connected all the inhabitants of the Caroline group with the Mongolian race, under the
name of the "Mongolo-Pelagian" branch. He rather sees in them, as did Chamisso and Balbi, a
branch of the Malay family, which has peopled Eastern Polynesia. Whilst Lesson compares the
people of the Carolines with the Chinese and Japanese, Lütke, on the other hand, finds in their
great, projecting eyes, thick lips, and retroussé nose, a family likeness to the people of
the Sandwich and Tonga Islands. The language does not suggest the slightest comparison with
Japanese, whilst it shows a great resemblance to that of the Tonga Islands.

Lütke spent the time of his sojourn at Manilla in laying in stores, and repairing the sloop,
and, on the 30th of January, he left that Spanish possession for Russia, which he reached on
the 6th of September, 1829, casting anchor in the roads of Cronstadt.

It remains now to tell how it had fared with the sloop, the Möller, after the separation at
Valparaiso. Arriving at Kamtchatka from Otaheite, she had left part of her cargo at Petropaulovski,
and thereafter--in August, 1827--had set sail for Ounalashka, where she had remained for a
month. After an examination of the west coast of America, which was cut short by unfavourable
weather, and a stay at Honolulu, which extended to February, 1828, she had discovered the island
Möller, noted the Necker, Gardner, and Lisiansky Islands, and marked, at a distance of six
miles southwards, a very dangerous reef.

The sloop had then coasted the island of Curè, the French Frigate Shoal the reef Maro, Pearl
Island, and the Isle of Hermes; and, after having made search for several islands marked upon
Arrowsmith's charts, had at length reached Kamtchatka. At the end of April, she had set sail
for Ounalashka and taken observations of the north coast of the Alaska peninsula. In September
the Möller rejoined the Seniavine, and, from that period until their return to Russia, they
were no more separated, save for brief intervals.

As one may judge from the sufficiently detailed account which has just been given, this expedition
did not fail to bring about results of importance to geographical science. We must add that
the different branches of natural history, physics, and astronomy, owe to it equally numerous
and important additions.

The expedition under the command of Louis Claude de Saulces de Freycinet was the result of
the leisure which the Peace of 1815 brought to the French navy. The idea was started by one
of its most adventurous officers, the same who had accompanied Baudin in his survey of the
Australian coasts, and to him was entrusted the task of carrying it out. It was the first voyage
which had not hydrography alone for its object. Its chief aim was to survey the shape of the
land in the southern hemisphere, and to make observations in terrestrial magnetism, without,
at the same time, omitting to give attention to all natural phenomena, and to the manners,
customs, and languages of indigenous races. Purely geographical inquiries, though not altogether
omitted from the programme, had the least prominent place in it.

Among the medical officers of the navy, Freycinet found MM. Quoy, Gaimard, and Gaudichaud,
whose attainments in natural history qualified them for being valuable coadjutors; and he also
chose to accompany him several distinguished officers who had risen to high rank in the navy,
the best known being Duperrey, Lamarche, Berard, and Odet-Pellion, who subsequently became,
one a member of the Institute, the others superior officers or admirals.

No less care was exercised by Freycinet in composing his crew chiefly of sailors who were also
skilled in some trade; so that out of the 120 men who manned the corvette Uranie, no less than
fifty could serve on occasion as carpenters, ropemakers, sailmakers, blacksmiths, or other
mechanics.

The Uranie, amply supplied with stores for two years, and provided with all sorts of apparatus
of proved utility, iron cisterns for fresh water, machines for distilling salt water, preserved
provisions, remedies for scurvy, &c. At last, on the 17th of September, 1817, she set sail
from Toulon. On board, disguised as a sailor, was the commander's wife, who was not to be deterred
from joining her husband by the dangers and hardships of so protracted a voyage.

Together with all these provisions for bodily comfort, Freycinet took with him a stock of the
best scientific instruments, together with minute instructions from the Institute intended
to direct his researches, and to suggest the experiments best adapted to promote the progress
of science.

The Uranie reached Rio de Janeiro on the 6th of December, having put in at Gibraltar, and made
a short stay at Teneriffe, one of the Canaries, which, as Freycinet wittily observes, were
not Fortunate Islands for his crew, all communication with the land being forbidden by the
governors.

During their stay at Rio de Janeiro the officers took a great many magnetical observations
and made experiments with the pendulum, whilst the naturalists scoured the country for new
specimens and curiosities, making large and important collections.

The original records of the voyage contain a long narrative of the discovery and colonization
of Brazil, and detailed information on the customs and manners of the people, on the temperature
and the climate, as well as a minute description of the principal buildings and the suburbs
of Rio de Janeiro itself. The most curious part of this account is that which touches upon
the gipsies, who, at that time, were to be met with at Rio de Janeiro.

"Worthy descendants of the Pariahs of India, whence these gipsies without doubt originally
came," says Freycinet, "they are noted like their ancestors for every vicious practice and
criminal propensity. Most of them, possessing immense wealth, make a great display in dress
and in horses, especially at their weddings, which are celebrated with much expense; and they
find their chief pleasure either in riotous debauchery or in sheer idleness. Knaves and liars,
they cheat as much as they can in trade, and are also clever smugglers. Here, as elsewhere,
these detestable people intermarry only among their own race. They speak a jargon of their
own with a peculiar accent. The government most unaccountably tolerates the nuisance of their
presence, and goes so far as to appropriate to their exclusive use two streets in the neighbourhood
of the Campo de Santa Anna."

A little further on the traveller remarks,--

"Any one who saw Rio de Janeiro only by day would come to the conclusion that the population
consisted entirely of negroes. The respectable classes never go out except in the evening,
unless compelled by some pressing circumstance or for the performance of religious duties;
and it is in the evening that the ladies especially show themselves. During the day all remain
indoors, and pass the time between their couches and their looking-glasses. The only places
where a man can enjoy the society of the ladies are the theatres and the churches."

During the sail from Brazil to the Cape of Good Hope nothing occurred deserving special mention.
On the 7th March the Uranie anchored in Table Bay. After a quarantine of three days, the travellers
obtained permission to land, and were received with a hearty welcome by Governor Somerset.
As soon as a place suitable for their reception had been found, the scientific instruments
were brought on shore, and the usual experiments were made with the pendulum, and the variations
of the magnetic needle observed.

MM. Quoy and Gaimard, the naturalists, in company with several officers of the staff, made
scientific excursions to Table Mountain and to the famous vineyards of Constantia. M. Gaimard
observes, "The vines that we rode amongst are in the midst of alleys of oak and of pine; and
the vine-stems, planted at the distance of four feet from one another, are not supported by
props. Every year the vines are pruned, and the earth about them, which is of a sandy nature,
is turned up. We noticed here and there plenty of peaches, apricots, apples, pears, citrons,
as well as small plots cultivated as kitchen-gardens. On our return, M. Colyn insisted on our
tasting the several sorts of wine which he produces,--Constantia properly so-called, both red
and white, Pontac, Pierre, and Frontignac. The wine produced in other localities, which is
called Cape wine par excellence, is manufactured from a muscatel grape of a dark straw colour,
which seemed to me in flavour preferable to the grape of Provence. We have just said that there
are two sorts of Constantia, the red and the white; they are both produced from muscatel grapes
of different colours. People at the Cape generally prefer Frontignac to all the other wines
produced from the vintages of Constantia."

Exactly a month after quitting the southern extremity of Africa, the Uranie cast anchor off
Port Louis in the Isle of France, which, since the Treaties of 1815, has been in the hands
of the English. The necessity for careening the ship, that it might be thoroughly examined,
and the copper sheathing repaired, led to a much longer stay in this port than Freycinet had
calculated upon; but our travellers found no cause to regret the delay, for the society of
Port Louis fully sustained its old reputation for generous hospitality. The time passed quickly
in excursions, receptions, dinners, balls, horse-races, and all sorts of festivities. It was,
therefore, not without some regret that the French guests bade adieu to a place where they
had been received with so much kindness both by their old compatriots and by those who had
so lately been their bitter enemies.

The stay of the Uranie at the Isle of France had not, however, been sufficiently long to allow
Freycinet to investigate many subjects of much interest, but this omission was remedied by
the polite readiness shown by some of the leading residents in supplying him with valuable
papers on the agriculture of the island, its commerce, its financial position, the industrial
pursuits, and the social condition of the people, the correct appreciation of which demanded
a more careful and minute examination than a mere passing traveller could possibly give to
them. Since the island had come under English administration, it appeared that a number of
new roads had been planned out, and a policy of reform had supplanted a benumbing system of
routine fatal to all activity and progress.

Bourbon was the next place touched at by the Uranie, where the supplies of which the travellers
stood in need were to be procured from the government stores. She cast anchor off St. Denis
on the 19th July, 1818, remaining in the roadstead of St. Paul until the 2nd August, when she
set sail for the Bay of Sharks, on the western shores of Australia. There is little of interest
to be noted in connexion with the stay at Bourbon beyond the steady increase of the population
and of trade which had taken place during the century preceding the arrival of the French expedition
in 1717. According to Gentil de Barbinais, there were living in the island only 900 free people,
amongst whom were no more than six white families, and 1100 slaves. At the last census taken
in 1817, these numbers had risen to 14,790 whites, 4342 free blacks, 49,759 slaves, making
a total of 68,898 inhabitants. This large and rapid increase must be attributed partly to the
salubrity of the climate, but chiefly to the freedom of trade, of which the island had for
some time enjoyed the advantage.

After a fortunate voyage of forty days, the Uranie cast anchor at the entrance of the Bay of
Sharks on the 12th September. A party was at once despatched to Dirk Hartog, in order to determine
the latitude and longitude of Cape Levaillant, and to bring on board the corvette a certain
metal plate which had been left there by the Dutch at a remote period, and had been seen by
Freycinet in 1801. Whilst this party were away, the two alembics were set to work to distil
sea-water, which was effected so successfully that as long as the vessel stayed there, no other
water was drunk but that obtained by this process, and all on board were satisfied with it.

On landing, the party sent to Dirk Hartog, got a view of the natives, who were armed with javelins
and clubs, but had not a vestige of clothing. They, however, refused to have any close communications
with the white strangers, keeping themselves at a respectful distance, and not handling any
of the presents offered them without a previous careful inspection.

Although the Bay of Sharks had been minutely explored at the time of the expedition under Baudin,
there still remained a hydrographical gap to be filled up on the eastern side of Hamelin Bay.
Accordingly Duperrey proceeded there to complete the survey of that part of the coast. At the
same time Gaimard, the naturalist, not disposed to rest satisfied with the interviews which
as yet he had been able to obtain with the natives of the country, whom the sound of the fire-arms
had summarily dispersed, decided upon penetrating into the interior, to gain some information
respecting their mode of life. His companion and himself lost their way, as also did Riche
in 1792 upon Nuyt's Land, where for three days they underwent severe sufferings from thirst,
not being able to find a single rivulet or spring in the country.

The Expedition were well pleased when the inhospitable shores of Endracht disappeared from
view. They had a pleasant passage in lovely weather, and over an unruffled sea, to the island
of Timor, where on the 9th October the Uranie cast anchor in the roadstead of Coupang, and
the travellers met with a cordial reception from the Portuguese authorities. But they found
that the prosperity which had made the colony an object of wonder and admiration to the French
travellers who had visited it with Baudin, had passed away. The Rajah of Amanoubang, the district
where the sandal-tree grows in such abundance, who was formerly a tributary prince, was carrying
on war to gain independence. The hostilities which were proceeding were not only detrimental
to the interests of the colony, but also made it very difficult for Freycinet to purchase the
commodities of which he stood in need. Some of the staff set off to pay a visit to the Rajah
Peters de Banacassi, whose residence was not more than three-quarters of a league from Coupang.
Peters, then eighty years of age, must have been a remarkably fine man. He gave them an audience
surrounded by his attendants, who treated him with profound respect, and among whom were conspicuous
several warriors of gigantic stature. The dwelling that served for the royal palace was rudely
constructed, yet the French travellers saw with lively surprise that articles of luxury were
plentiful, and they observed also some muskets of good manufacture and great value.

Notwithstanding the excessive heat of the climate, the thermometer rising in the open air to
45 degrees, and in the shade to 33 degrees, and even to 35 degrees, the commander and his officers
carried on with unremitting zeal the observations and surveys which it was the object of the
Expedition to make. A few fell victims to their own imprudence, for in defiance of the earnest
warnings of Freycinet, some of the young officers and the seamen chose to sally forth in the
middle of the day, and with the view of fortifying themselves against the injurious effects
of their dangerous freak, drank and ate plentifully of cold water and sour fruits. The result
was that in a short time five of the most imprudent were confined to their hammocks with dysentery.
This necessitated a departure from Timor; so the Uranie weighed anchor and set sail on the
23rd October.

At first the corvette sailed rapidly along the north coast of Timor, for the purpose of making
a survey, but when she had reached the narrowest part of the Channel of Ombay, she encountered
such violent currents that--the winds being slight and contrary--it was only with great difficulty
she was able to regain the course which she had lost during the calm. No less than nineteen
days were wasted in this trying situation; though certain of the officers took advantage of
the delay to land on the nearest point of the island of Ombay, where the coast had a very inviting
appearance. They went on shore near a village called Bitouka, and advanced to meet a body of
the natives, armed with shields and cuirasses made of buffalo-skin, and carrying bows, arrows,
and daggers. Savages though they were, they had quite the air of warriors, and were not at
all afraid of fire-arms; on the contrary, they argued that the loading of the gun caused loss
of time, for while that operation was going on, they could fire off a great number of arrows.

Gaimard writes, "The points of the arrows were of hard wood, or of bone, and some of iron.
The arrows themselves, displayed fan-wise, were fastened on the left side of the warrior to
the belt of his sword or dagger. Most of these people wore bundles of palm-leaves, slit so
as to allow red or black coloured strips of the same to be passed through to hold them together,
which were attached to the belt or the right thigh. The rustling sound produced with every
movement of the wearers of this singular ornament, increased by knocking against the cuirass
or the buckler, with the addition of the tinkling of little bells, which also formed part of
the warrior's equipment, altogether made such a jumble of discordant sounds that we could not
refrain from laughing. Far from taking offence, our Ombayan friends joined heartily in our
merriment. M. Arago[1] greatly excited their astonishment by performing some sleight-of-hand
tricks. We then took our way straight to the village of Bitouka, which was situated on a rising
ground. In passing one of their cottages we happened to see about a score of human jawbones
suspended from the roof, and anxious to get possession of one or two, I offered the most valuable
articles I had about me in exchange. The answer was, 'palami,' they are sacred. We ascertained
afterwards that these were the jawbones of their enemies, preserved as trophies of victory."

[Footnote 1: Jacques Arago, brother of the illustrious astronomer.]

This excursion derived greater interest from the circumstance of the island of Ombay having
been up to that time rarely visited by Europeans; and the few vessels that had effected any
landing brought mournful accounts of the warlike and ferocious temper of the natives, and even
in some instances of their cannibal propensities. Thus in 1802 the merchant-ship Rose had her
small boat carried off, and the crew were detained as prisoners by the savages. Ten years later,
the captain of the ship Inacho, who landed by himself, received several arrow wounds. Again,
in 1817, an English frigate sent the cutter ashore for the purpose of getting wood, when a
scrimmage took place between the crew and the natives, which ended in the former being killed
and eaten. The day after, an armed sloop was despatched in quest of the missing crew; but nothing
was found save some fragments of the cutter and the bloody remains of the unfortunate men.

In view of these facts the French travellers must be congratulated on having escaped being
entrapped by the savage cannibals, which would undoubtedly have been attempted had the Uranie
stayed long enough at Ombay.

On the 17th of November the anchor was let go at Dili.

After the customary interchange of compliments with the Portuguese governor, Freycinet made
known the requirements of the expedition, and received a friendly assurance that the necessary
provisions should be instantly forthcoming. The reception given to all the members of the expedition
was both hearty and liberal, and when Freycinet took his leave, the governor, wishing that
he should carry away some souvenir of his visit, presented him with two boys and two girls,
of the ages of six and seven, natives of Failacor, a kingdom in the interior of Timor. To insure
the acceptance of this present, the governor, D. José Pinto Alcofarado d'Azevado e Souza, stated
that the race to which the children belonged was quite unknown in Europe. In spite of all the
strong and conclusive reasons that Freycinet gave to explain why he felt compelled to decline
the present, he was obliged to take charge of one of the little boys, who subsequently received
the name of Joseph Antonio in baptism, but when sixteen years old died of some scrofulous disease
at Paris.

On a first examination it would appear that the population of Timor belonged altogether to
the Asiatic race; but so far as any reliance can be placed upon somewhat extended researches,
there is reason to think that in the unfrequented mountains in the centre of the island there
exists a race of negroes with woolly hair, and savage manners, of the type of the indigenous
races of New Guinea and New Ireland, whom one is led to consider the primitive population.
This line of research, commenced at the close of the eighteenth century by an Englishman of
the name of Crawford, has been in our time carried forward with striking results by the labours
of the learned Doctors Broca and E. Hamy, to the latter of whom the reading public are indebted
for the pleasing and instructive papers on primitive populations which have appeared in Nature
and in the journals of the Royal Geographical Society.

After leaving Timor the Uranie proceeded towards the Strait of Bourou, and in passing between
the islands of Wetter and Roma got sight of the picturesque island of Gasses, clothed in the
brightest and thickest verdure imaginable. The corvette was then drifted by currents almost
as far as the island of Pisang, near which she fell in with three dhows, manned by natives
of the island of Gueby. These people have an olive complexion, broad flat noses, and thick
lips; some are strong, looking robust and athletic, others are slender and weakly in appearance;
and others, again, thickset and repulsive-looking. The only clothing worn by the majority at
this time was a pair of drawers fastened with a handkerchief round the waist.

A landing was effected on the little island of Pisang. It was found to be of volcanic origin,
and the soil, formed from the decomposition of trachytic lava, was evidently very fertile.
From Pisang the corvette made her way among islands, till then scarcely known, to Rawak, where
she cast anchor at noon on the 16th of December. This island, though small, is inhabited; but
though our navigators were often visited by the natives of Waigiou, opportunities for studying
this species of the human family have been rare. Moreover, it ought to be mentioned that through
ignorance of the language of the indigenous tribes, and the difficulty of making them understand
through the medium of Malayan, of which they know only a few words, even those few opportunities
have not been turned to much account. As soon as a suitable position was found, the instruments
were set up, and the usual physical and astronomical observations were made in conjunction
with geographical researches.

The islands which Freycinet calls the islands of the Papuans are Rawak, Boni, Waigiou, and
Manouran, which are situated almost immediately below the equator. The largest of these, Waigiou,
is not less than seventy-two miles from one side to the other; the low shorage consists mainly
of swamp and morass, while the banks, which run up steeply, are surrounded by coral reefs,
and are full of small caves hollowed out by the waves. All the islets are clothed with vegetation
of surprising beauty. They abound with magnificent trees, amongst which the "Barringtonia"
may be recognized, with its voluminous trunk always leaning towards the sea, allowing the tips
of the branches to touch the water; the "scoevola lobelia," fig-trees, mangroves, the casuarinæ,
with their straight and slender stems shooting up to the height of forty feet, the rima, the
takanahaka, with its trunk more than twenty feet in circumference; the cynometer, belonging
to the family of leguminous plants, bright from its topmost to its lowest branches with pale
red flowers and golden fruits; and besides these rarer trees, palms, nutmeg-trees, roseapple-trees,
banana-trees, flourish in the low and moist ground.

The fauna, however, has not attained to the same exceptionally fine development as the flora.
At Rawak the phalanger and the sheepdog in a wild state were the only quadrupeds met with.
In Waigiou, the boar called barberossa, and a diminutive of the same race were found. But as
to the feathered tribe, they were not so numerous as one might have supposed; the plants yielding
grain necessary for the sustenance of birds not being able to thrive in the dense shade of
the forests. Hornbills are here met with, whose wings, furnished with long feathers separated
at the tips, make a very loud noise when they fly; great quantities of parrots, kingfishers,
turtle-doves, piping-crows, brown hawks, crested pigeons, and possibly also birds of paradise,
though the travellers did not see any specimens.

The Papuans themselves are positively repulsively ugly. To quote the words of Odet-Pellion,
"a flat skull, a facial angle of 75 degrees, a large mouth, eyes small and sunken, a thick
nose, flat at the end and pressed down on the upper lip, a scanty beard, a peculiarity of the
people of those regions already noticed, shoulders of a moderate size, a prominent belly, and
slight lower limbs; these are the chief characteristics of the Papuans. Their hair both in
its nature and mode of arrangement varies a good deal. Most commonly it is dressed with great
pains into a matted structure not less than eight inches in height; composed of a mass of soft
downy hair curling naturally; or it is frizzed up, till it positively bristles, and with the
assistance of a coating of grease, is plastered round the skull in the shape of a globe. A
long wooden comb of six or seven teeth is also often stuck in, not so much to aid in keeping
the mass together as to give a finishing touch of ornament."

These unfortunate people are afflicted with the terrible scourge of leprosy, which is so prevalent
that at least a tenth part of the population are infested with the disease. The cause of this
dreadful malady must be sought in the insalubrity of the climate, the miasma from the marshes,
which are overflowed with sea-water every flood tide, the neighbourhood of the burial-places,
which are badly kept, and perhaps also to the consumption of shell-fish which these natives
devour greedily.

All the houses, whether inland or on the coast, are built on piles. Many of these dwellings
are erected in places extremely difficult of access. They are made by thrusting stakes into
the earth, to which transverse beams are fastened with ropes made of fibre, and on these a
flooring is laid of palm-leaves, trimmed and strongly intertwined one with another. These leaves,
made to lap over in an artistic fashion, are also used for the roof of the house, which has
only one door. Should the dwellings be built over the water, communication is carried on between
them and the shore by means of a kind of bridge resting upon trestles, the movable flooring
of which can be quickly taken up. Every house is also surrounded by a kind of balcony furnished
with a balustrade.

The travellers could not obtain any information as to the friendly disposition of these natives.
Whether the whole tribe consists of large communities united under one chief or several, whether
each community obeys only its own proper head, whether the population is numerous or not, are
all points which could not be ascertained. The name by which they call themselves is Alfourous.
They appeared to talk in several distinct dialects, which differ remarkably from Papuan or Malay.

The inhabitants of this group seem to be a very industrious race. They manufacture all sorts
of fishing apparatus very cleverly; they are expert in finding their way through the forests;
they know how to prepare the pith of the sago-plant, and to make ovens for the cooking of the
sago; they can turn pottery ware, weave mats, carpets, baskets, and can also carve idols and
figures. In the harbour of Boni on the coast of Waigiou, MM. Quoy and Gaimard noticed a statue
moulded in white clay, under a sort of canopy close to a tomb. It represented a man standing
upright, of the natural height, with his hands raised towards heaven. The head was of wood,
with the cheeks and eyes inlaid with small pieces of white shell.

On the 6th of January, 1819, having taken in supplies at Rawak, the Uranie proceeded on her
voyage, and soon came in sight of the Ayou islands, mere sand-banks surrounded by breakers,
of which few geographical details had been known up to that time. There was much to be done
in the way of accurate survey, but unfortunately the hydrographers were sorely hindered in
their work by the fever which they and some forty of the crew had contracted at Rawak. Sailing
on, the Anchoret Islands came in sight on the 12th of February, and on the day following the
Amirantes, but the Uranie did not attempt to make for the land. Shortly after passing the Amirantes,
the corvette sighted St. Bartholomew, which the inhabitants call Poulousouk. It belongs to
the Caroline archipelago. A busy trade, always attended with much uproar, was soon set on foot
with the indigenous people, who resisted all persuasion to come on board, conducting all their
transactions, nevertheless, with admirable good faith, in no instance showing any dishonest
tendencies. One after another Poulouhat, Alet, Tamatam, Allap, Tanadik, all islands belonging
to this archipelago, passed before the admiring gaze of the French navigators. At length, on
the 17th of March, 1819, just eighteen months from the time of quitting France, Freycinet got
sight of the Marianne Islands, and cast anchor in the roads of Umata on the coast of Guam.
Just as the officers of the expedition were ready to go on shore, the governor of the island,
D. Medinilla y Pineda, accompanied by his lieutenant, Major D. Luis de Torrès, came on board
to bid them welcome. These gentlemen showed a polite anxiety to learn what the explorers stood
in need of, and engaged that all their wants should be supplied with the least possible delay.

No time was lost in looking for a place suited for conversion into a temporary hospital, and
one being found, the sick on board, to the number of twenty, were removed to it for treatment
the very next day.

A dinner to the staff of the expedition was given by the governor, and all the officers assembled
in his house at the appointed hour. They found a table covered with light cakes and fruits,
in the midst of which were two bowls of hot punch. Some surprise escaped the guests, in private
remarks to one another, at this singular kind of banquet. Could it be a fast-day? Why did no
one sit down? But as there was no interpreter to clear up these points, and as it would have
been unbecoming to ask for an explanation, they kept their difficulties for solution among
themselves, and paid attention to the good things before them. Soon a fresh surprise came;
the table was cleared and covered with various sorts of prepared dishes--in short, a substantial
and sumptuous dinner was served. The collation which had been taken at the commencement, called
in the language of the country "Refresco," had been intended only to whet the appetites of
the guests for what was to follow.

After this, luxurious dinners became quite the rage at Guam. Two days subsequent to the governor's
banquet, the officers found themselves at a dinner-party of fifty guests, where no less than
forty-four separate dishes were served at each of the three courses of which the dinner consisted.
Freycinet, from information he had received, relates that "this dinner cost the lives of two
oxen and three fat pigs, to say nothing of poultry, game, and fish. Such a slaughter, I should
think, has not been known since the marriage-feast of Gamache. No doubt our host considered
that persons who had undergone so many privations during a protracted voyage ought to be compensated
with an unusually profuse entertainment. The dessert showed no falling off either in abundance
or in variety; it was succeeded by tea, coffee, creams, liqueurs of every description; and
as the 'Refresco' had been served as usual an hour previous to dinner, it will be admitted
without question that at Guam the most intrepid gourmand could find no other cause for disappointment
but the limited capacity of the human stomach."

However, the objects of the mission were not interfered with by all this dining and festivity.
Natural history excursions, magnetical observations, the geographical survey of the island
of Guam, entrusted to Duperrey, were all being pushed forward simultaneously. But in the meantime
the corvette had got to moorings in the deep water off the port of St. Louis, while the chief
of the Staff, as well as the sick, were housed at Agagna, the capital of the island and the
seat of government. At that place, in honour of the French visitors, cock-fights took place,
a kind of sport very popular in all the Spanish possessions in Oceania; dances also were given,
the figures in which, it was said, contained allusions to events in the history of Mexico.
The dancers, students of the Agagna college, were dressed in rich silks, imported a long time
previously by the Jesuits from New Spain. Then came combats with sticks in which the Carolins
took part; which again were succeeded, almost uninterruptedly by other amusements. But what
Freycinet considered of most value was the mass of information concerning the customs and manners
of the former inhabitants of the islands, which he obtained through Major D. Luis Torrès; who,
himself born in the country, had made a constant study of this subject. Of this interesting
information use will be made when the subject is presently resumed, but first some notice must
be taken of an excursion to the islands Rota and Tinian, the latter of which had already become
known to us through the narratives of former travellers.

On the 22nd April a small fleet of eight proas conveyed MM. Berard, Gaudichaud, and Jacques
Arago to Rota, where their arrival occasioned great surprise and alarm, explained by the fact
that a report had gained currency in the island that the corvette was manned with rebels from
America.

Beyond Rota the proas reached Tinian, where the arid plains recalled to the travellers the
desolate coasts of the land of Endracht, testifying to the considerable changes that must have
taken place there since the time when Lord Anson described the place as a terrestrial Paradise.

The Marianne archipelago was discovered by Magellan on the 6th March, 1521, and at first received
the name of Islas de las velas latinas, the Isles of the lateen sails, but subsequently that
of the Ladrones, or the Robbers. If one may trust Pigafetta, the illustrious admiral saw no
islands but Tinian, Saypan, and Agoignan. Five years later they were visited by the Spaniard
Loyasa, whose cordial reception was quite a contrast to that of Magellan; and in 1565 the islands
were declared to be Spanish territory by Miguel Lopez de Legaspi. It was not, however, until
1669 that they were colonized and evangelized by Father Sanvitores. It will be understood that
we should not follow Freycinet's narrative of past events in the history of this archipelago,
were it not that the manuscripts and works of every kind which he was permitted to consult
enabled him to treat the subject de novo, and throw upon it the light of real knowledge.

The admiration, still lingering in the minds of the travellers, which had been aroused by the
incredible fertility of the Papuan Islands and the Moluccas was no doubt calculated to weaken
the impression produced by any of the Marianne Islands. The forests of Guam, though well stocked,
did not present the gigantic appearance common to forest scenery in the tropics. They extended
over a large part of the island, yet there were also immense spaces devoted to pasturage, where
not a breadfruit-tree nor a cocoa-nut palm was to be seen. In the depths of the forests, moreover,
the conquerors of the islands had created artificial glades, in order that the herds of horned
cattle which they had introduced might find food and also enjoy shelter from the sun.

Agoignan, an island with a very rocky coast, presented from a distance an arid and barren appearance,
but is in reality thickly clothed with trees even to the summit of its highest mountains.

Rota is a regular jungle, an almost impenetrable mass of brushwood, above which rise thickets
of rimas, tamarind, fig, and palm trees. Tinian, too, presents anything but an agreeable appearance.
The French explorers altogether missed the charming scenes described in such glowing colours
by their predecessors, but the appearance of the soil, and the immense number of dead trees,
led them to the conclusion that old accounts were not altogether exaggerated, especially as
the southern portion of the island is now rendered quite inaccessible by its dense forests.

At the time of Freycinet's visit the population of these islands was of a very mixed character,
the aborigines being quite in the minority. The more highly born of the natives were formerly
bigger, stronger, and better made than Europeans, but the race is degenerating, and the primitive
type in its purity is now only to be met with in Rota.

Capital swimmers and divers, able to walk immense distances without fatigue, every man of them
had to prove his proficiency in these exercises on his marriage; but although this proficiency
has been in some measure kept up, the leading characteristic of the people of the Marianne
group is idleness, or perhaps to be more strictly accurate, indifference.

Marriages are contracted at a very early age, the bridegroom being generally between fifteen
and eighteen, the bride between twelve and fifteen. A numerous progeny is the result of these
unions; instances being on record of twenty-two children born of one mother.

Not only do the people of Guam suffer from many diseases, such as lung complaints, smallpox,
&c., introduced by Europeans; but also from some which seem to be endemic, or in any case to
have assumed a type peculiar to the place and altogether abnormal. Such are elephantiasis and
leprosy, three varieties of which are met with at Guam, differing from each other alike in
their symptoms and their effects.

Before the conquest, the people of the Mariannes lived on the fruit of the rima or bread-tree,
rice, sago, and other farinaceous plants. Their mode of cooking these articles was extremely
simple, though not so much so as their style of dress, for they went about in a state of nature,
unrelieved even by the traditional fig-leaf.

At the present time children still wear no clothing till they are about ten years old. Alluding
to this peculiar custom, Captain Pages, writing at the close of last century, says, "I found
myself near a house, in front of which an Indian girl, about eleven years old, was squatted
on her heels in the full blaze of the sun, without a vestige of clothing on. Her chemise lay
folded on the ground in front of her. When she saw me approaching, she got up quickly and put
it on again. Although still far from decently clothed, for only her shoulders were covered
by it, she now considered herself properly dressed, and stood before me quite unembarrassed."

Judging from the remains nearly everywhere to be met with, such as the ruins of dwellings originally
supported by masonry pillars, it is plain that the population was formerly considerable. The
earliest traveller who has made any reference to this subject is Lord Anson. He has given a
somewhat fanciful description, which, however, the explorers in the Uranie were able to corroborate,
as will be seen from the following extract.

"The description found in the narrative of Lord Anson's voyage is correct; but the ruins and
the branches of the trees that have in some way twined themselves about the masonry pillars,
wear now a very different aspect from what they did in his time. The sharp edges of the pillars
have got rubbed away, and the half-globes that surmounted them have no longer their former
roundness."

Of the structures of more recent date only a sixth part are of stone. At Agagna may be counted
several buildings possessing some interest on account of their size, if not on that of their
elegance, grandeur, or the fineness of their proportions. These are the College of St. John
Lateran, the church, the clergy-house, the governor's palace, and the taverns.

Before the Spaniards established their sway in these islands, the natives were divided into
three classes, the nobility, the inferior nobility, and the commonalty. These last, the Pariahs
of the country, Freycinet remarks, though without citing his authority, were of a more diminutive
stature than the other inhabitants. This difference of height is, however, scarcely a sufficient
reason for pronouncing them to be of a different race from the other two classes; is it not
more reasonable to conclude it to be the result of the degrading servitude to which they have
been subjected? These plebeians could under no circumstances raise themselves to a higher class;
and a seafaring life was forbidden to them. Each of the three castes had its own sorceresses
and priestesses, or medicine-women, who each devoted her attention to the treatment of some
one disorder; only no reason, however, for crediting them with any special skill in its cure.

The business of canoe-building was monopolized by the nobles; who, however, allowed the inferior
nobles to assist in their construction. The making of canoes was to them a work of the utmost
importance, and the nobles maintained it as one of their most valuable privileges. The language
spoken in the Philippine group, though it has some affinity with the Malay and Tagala dialects,
has all the same a distinctive character of its own. Freycinet's narrative also contains much
information on the extremely singular customs of the former population of the Mariannes, which
are beyond our province, though well worthy of the attention of the philosopher and historian.

The Uranie had been now more than two months at anchor. It was full time to resume the work
of exploration. Freycinet and his staff, therefore, devoted the few remaining days of their
stay to the task of paying farewell visits and expressing their gratitude for the hearty kindness
which had been so profusely shown to them. The governor, however, not only declined to admit
his claim to thanks from the French travellers for the hospitable attentions heaped upon them
for upwards of two months; but also refused to accept any payment for the supplies which had
been furnished for the refitting of the corvette. He even went so far as to write a letter
of apology for the scantiness of the provisions, the result of the drought which had desolated
Guam for the previous six months, and which had prevented him from doing things as he could
have wished. The final farewell took place off Agagna. "It was impossible," says Freycinet,
"to take leave of the amiable man, who had loaded us with so many proofs of his friendly disposition,
without being deeply affected. I was too much moved to be able to find expression for the feelings
with which my heart was filled; but the tears which filled my eyes must have been to him a
surer evidence than any words could have been of my gratitude and my regret."

From the 5th to the 16th June the Uranie occupied in an exploring cruise round the north of
the Marianne Islands, in the course of which were made the observations of which the substance
has been given above. The commander, wishing to make a quick passage to the Sandwich Islands,
then took advantage of a breeze to gain a higher latitude, where he hoped to meet with favourable
winds. But as the explorers penetrated further and further into this part of the Pacific Ocean,
cold and dense fogs wrapped them round, permeating the whole vessel with damp, equally unpleasant
and injurious to health. However, the crew suffered no worse inconvenience than slight colds;
in fact, the change had rather a bracing effect than otherwise on men now for some time accustomed
to the enervating heat of the tropics.

On the 6th August the south point of Hawaï was doubled, and Freycinet made for the western
side of the island, where he hoped to find a safe and convenient anchorage. A dead calm prevailing,
the first and second days were spent in opening relations with the natives. The women came
off in crowds immediately on the arrival of the ship, with the view of carrying on their usual
trade, but the commander laid an interdict on their coming on board.

The first piece of news given to the captain by one of the Areois[2] was that King Kamahamaha
was dead, and that his young son Rio Rio had succeeded him. Taking advantage of a change of
wind the Uranie sailed on to the Bay of Karakakoa, and Freycinet was about to send an officer
in advance to take soundings, when a canoe put off from the shore, having on board the governor
of the island, Prince Kouakini, otherwise John Adams,[3] who promised the captain that he would
find boats suitable for the taking of the necessary supplies to the corvette. This young man,
about nine and twenty years of age, almost a giant in stature, but well proportioned, surprised
Freycinet by the extent of his information. On being informed that the corvette was on a voyage
of discovery, he inquired, "Have you doubled Cape Horn or did you come round the Cape of Good
Hope?" He then asked for the latest information about Napoleon, and wished to know whether
it was true that the island of St. Helena had been swallowed up with all its inhabitants! A
story he had evidently heard from some facetious whalemen, but had not entirely believed.

[Footnote 2: See Part II, Chapter 1, footnote 3 on the Areois.]

[Footnote 3: It was the custom for the chiefs in these parts to assume new names, often for
the most trifling reasons.--Trans.]

Kouakini next apprised Freycinet that though actual disturbances had not broken out on the
death of Kamahamaha, yet that some of the chiefs having asserted claims to independence, the
stability of the monarchy was in some danger. As a result the political situation was strained
and the government was in some perplexity, a state of things which probably would soon terminate,
especially if the commandant would consent to make some declaration in favour of the youthful
sovereign. Freycinet landed with the prince, to pay him a return visit; and, on entering his
house, was introduced to his wife, a very corpulent woman, who was lying on a European bedstead
covered with matting. After this visit, the captain and his host went to visit the widows of
Kamahamaha, the prince's sisters, but not being able to see them, they proceeded to the yards
and workshops of the deceased king. Here were four sheds sacred to the building of large war-canoes,
and others containing European boats. Farther on were seen wood for building purposes, bars
of copper, quantities of fishing-nets, a forge, a cooper's workshop, and lastly, some cases
belonging to the prime minister, Kraimokou, filled with all necessary appliances for navigation,
such as compasses, sextants, thermometers, watches, and even a chronometer. Strangers were
not allowed to inspect two other magazines in which were stored powder and other war-materials,
strong liquors, iron, &c. All these places were for the present abandoned by the new sovereign,
who held his court at Koaihai Bay.

Freycinet, on receiving an invitation from the king, made ready to visit him there, under the
guidance of a native pilot who showed himself most attentive, and was very skilful in forecasting
the weather. "The monarch," writes Freycinet, "was waiting for me on the beach, dressed in
the full uniform of an English captain, and surrounded by the whole of his suite. In spite
of the terrible barrenness of this side of the island, the spectacle of the grotesque assemblage
of men and women was not without grandeur and beauty. The king himself stood in front with
his principal officers a little distance behind him; some wearing splendid mantles made of
red or yellow feathers, or of scarlet cloth; others in short tippets of the same kind, but
in which the two glaring colours were relieved with black; a few had helmets on their heads.
This striking picture was further diversified by a number of soldiers grouped here and there,
and clad in various and strange costumes."

The sovereign now under notice was the same, who, with his young and charming wife, undertook
at a later period a voyage to England, where they both died. Their remains were brought back
to Hawaï by Captain Byron in the frigate La Blonde.

Freycinet seized this opportunity to repeat his request for supplies of fresh provisions, and
the king promised that two days should not pass before his wishes should be fully complied
with. However, although the good faith of the young monarch was above suspicion, the commander
soon discovered that most of the chiefs had no intention of obeying their sovereign's orders.

Some little time after this, the principal officers of the staff went to pay a visit to the
widows of Kamahamaha. The following amusing description of their lively reception is given
by M. Quoy:--"A strange spectacle," he says, "met our view on our entrance into an apartment
of narrow dimensions, where eight lumps of half naked humanity lay on the ground with their
faces downwards. It was not an easy task to find space to lay ourselves down according to custom
in the same manner. The attendants were constantly on the move, some carrying fans made of
feathers to whisk away the flies; another a lighted pipe, which was passed from one prostrate
figure to another, each taking a whiff or two, while the rest were engaged in shampooing the
royal personages.... Conversation, it may readily be imagined, was not well maintained under
these trying circumstances, and had it not been for some excellent watermelons which were handed
to us, the tedium of the interview would have been insupportable."

Freycinet next went to pay a visit to the famous John Young, who had been for so long a time
the faithful friend and sagacious adviser of King Kamahamaha. Although he was then old and
in bad health, he was not the less able to supply Freycinet with some valuable information
about the Sandwich Islands, where he had lived for thirty years, and in the history of which
he had played a prominent part.

Kraimokou, the minister, during a visit which he was paying on board the Uranie, had caught
sight of the Abbé de Quelen, the chaplain, whose costume puzzled him a good deal. As soon as
he had learned that the strangely dressed person was a priest, he expressed to the commandant
a desire to receive baptism. His mother, he said, had been admitted to that sacrament upon
her deathbed, and she had obtained from him a promise to submit himself to the same ceremony
as soon as he met with a convenient opportunity. Freycinet gave his consent, and endeavoured
to make the proceeding as solemn as possible, all the more because Rio Rio requested permission
to be present at it with all his suite. Every one behaved with the utmost decorum and reverence
while the ceremony was taking place; but immediately on its close there was a general rush
to the collation which the commandant had ordered to be prepared. It was wonderful to see how
rapidly the bottles of wine and the flasks of rum and of brandy were emptied, and to witness
the speedy disappearance of the viands with which the table had been covered. Fortunately the
day was coming to a close, or Rio Rio and the majority of his officers and courtiers would
not have been in a condition to reach the shore. In spite of this, however, it was necessary
to comply with his request for two additional bottles of brandy, that he might, as he said,
drink the health of the commander and success to his voyage, a request which all his attendants
felt bound in politeness to make likewise.

"It is not an over-statement," observes Freycinet, "to say that in the short space of two hours
our distinguished guests drank and carried away what would have been sufficient to supply the
wants of ten ordinary persons for three months." Several presents had been exchanged between
the royal pair and the commander. Among those made by the young queen was a cloak of feathers,
a kind of garment which had become exceedingly scarce in the Sandwich Islands.

Freycinet was about to set sail again, when he learnt from an American captain that a merchant-vessel
was lying off the island of Miow, having a large quantity of biscuit and rice on board, which
there was no doubt might be purchased. This information determined Freycinet to anchor first
off Raheina, among other reasons, because it was there that Kraimokou had undertaken to deliver
a number of pigs, which were required for the use of the crew. But the minister displayed signal
bad faith in the transaction; he tendered miserably poor pigs, and demanded an extravagantly
high price; so that it was necessary to have recourse to threats before the business could
be satisfactorily arranged. In this matter Kraimokou was under the misguidance of an English
runaway convict from Port Jackson, and most probably had the native been left to obey the promptings
of his own nature he would have acted on this occasion with the good faith and the sense of
honour which were his usual characteristics.

On reaching the island of Waihou, Freycinet dropped anchor off Honolulu. The hearty welcome
he received from the European residents made him regret that he had not come here direct to
begin with; for he was able without any delay to procure all the supplies which he had found
so much difficulty in getting together at the two other islands. Boki, the governor of Waihou,
received baptism from the chaplain of the Uranie. He was prompted apparently by no other motive
than a wish to do as his brother had done, who had previously received this sacrament. He was
far from having the air of intelligence common to the other natives of the various islands
of the Sandwich group hitherto visited.

Many observations on these natives are made in the narrative of the expedition, which are too
interesting to be passed over without a brief summary here. All navigators are agreed in considering
that the class of chiefs belong to a race excelling the other inhabitants, both in intelligence
and in stature. It is very unusual to find one who is less than six feet in height. Obesity
is very common, but chiefly among the women, who while still quite young often become enormously
corpulent. The Sandwich type is strongly marked and distinct. Pretty women are numerous; but
the blessing of length of days is seldom enjoyed. An old man of seventy is a rare phenomenon.
This early decline and premature death must be ascribed to the persistent dissipation in which
the people pass their lives.

On leaving the Sandwich Islands, Freycinet found it necessary to notice carefully the curves
of the magnetic equator in low latitudes.[4] Accordingly, he crowded all sail in an easterly
direction. On the 7th October the Uranie entered the southern hemisphere, and on the 19th of
the same month the Dangerous Islands came in sight. To the eastward of the Navigators' archipelago,
an island was discovered, not marked on the charts, which was named "Rose," after Madame Freycinet.
This was the only actual discovery of the voyage.

[Footnote 4: This refers to the line made up of the succession of points at which the magnetic
needle ceases to indicate.--Trans.]

The position of the islands of Pylstaart and Howe was next rectified, and on the 13th November
the lights of Port Jackson, or Sydney, were at last sighted.

Freycinet had fully expected to find the town enlarged during the sixteen years that had passed
since his last visit; but his astonishment was great indeed at the sight of a large and prosperous
European city, set down in the midst of scenery which might almost be called wild. But as the
travellers made excursions in various directions, fresh signs of the progress which the colony
had made were forced on their attention. Fine roads carefully kept, bordered with the eucalyptus,
styled by Pérou "the giant of the Australian forests," well constructed bridges, distances
marked by milestones, proved the existence of a well organized local administration; whilst
the charming cottages, the numerous herds of cattle, and the carefully cultivated fields, bore
testimony to the industry and perseverance of the new colonists.

Governor Macquarie, and the principal authorities of the province vied with each other in showing
attention to the French travellers, who, however, persisted in declining all but a single invitation,
lest the work of the mission should not receive its fair share of attention. The entertainment
given by the governor took place at his country house at Paramatta, whither the officers of
the expedition proceeded by water, accompanied by a military band. Several of them also visited
the little town of Liverpool, built in a pleasant situation on the banks of the river George.
Excursions too were made to the little villages of Richmond and Windsor, which were growing
up near Hawkesbury river. At the same time a party of the staff joined in a kangaroo hunt,
and crossing the Blue Mountains penetrated the Bathurst settlement.

Through the friendly relations which Freycinet had established with the residents during his
two visits, he was able to collect numerous interesting details respecting the Australian colony.
Therefore the chapter that he devotes to New South Wales, recording the marvellous and rapid
advance of this effort at colonization, excited a lively interest in France, where the development
and growing prosperity of Australia were very imperfectly known. Freycinet's narrative was
there quite a new revelation, well calculated to excite inquiry, and which had, moreover, the
advantage of showing the exact condition of the colony so late as the year 1825.

The chain of mountains at some distance from the coast, known by the name of the Australian
Alps, separates New South Wales from the interior of the Australian continent. For twenty-five
years this chain formed a barrier against all communication with the country beyond; but now,
thanks to the energy of Governor Macquarie, the barrier has been removed. A zigzag road has
been cut in the rock, thus opening the way to the colonization of wide spreading plains watered
by important rivers. The loftiest summits of this chain, nearly 10,000 feet in height, are
covered with snow even in the middle of summer. Whilst the elevation of the principal peaks,
Mount Exmouth, Mount Cunningham, and others was being taken, it was discovered that so far
from Australia possessing only one large watercourse, the Swan River, it had several, the chief
being Hawkesbury River, formed by the confluence of the Nepean, the Grose, and the Brisbane;
the river Murray not being yet known. At the period under notice a commencement had been made
in the working of coal-mines, slate quarries, layers of solid carbonate of iron, sandstone,
chalk, porphyry and jasper; but the presence of gold, the metal that was to effect so rapid
a development of the young colony, had not as yet been established.

The nature of the soil varies. On the sea-coast it is barren, able only to support the growth
of a few stunted trees; but inland the traveller meets with fields clothed with a rich vegetation,
vast pasturages in which here and there rise a few tall shrubs, and forests where giant trees
entwined with an inextricable growth of underwood, defy all attempts to penetrate to their
recesses.

One circumstance which much surprised travellers was the apparent homogeneity of race throughout
the whole of this immense continent. Take the aborigines at the Bay of Sharks, or in the land
of Endracht, or by the Swan River, or at Port Jackson, and the same complexion, and the same
kind of hair, the same features, the same physique, all prove indisputably that they have sprung
from one common origin. Those dwelling by the rivers or on the sea coast subsist chiefly on
shell or other fish, but those living in the interior trust to hunting for their food, and
will eat indiscriminately the flesh of the opossum or the kangaroo, not rejecting even lizards,
snakes, worms, or ants, the last named of which they manufacture into a sort of paste with
the addition of their eggs and the roots of ferns. All over the continent the practice of the
aborigines is to go completely naked; though they have no objection to put on any articles
of European clothing that they can get possession of. It is said that in 1820 at Port Jackson
there was a laughable caricature of the European style of dress to be seen in the person of
an ancient negress who went about clothed in some pieces of an old woollen blanket, wearing
on her head a bonnet of green silk. A few of the aborigines, however, make themselves cloaks
of opossum or kangaroo skin, stitching the pieces together with the nerve-fibres of the cassowary;
but this kind of garment is of rare occurrence.

Though their hair is smooth, they plaster it with grease and arrange it in curls. Then inserting
in the middle a tuft of grass, they raise a strange and comical superstructure, surmounted
by a few cockatoo feathers; or failing these, they fasten on, with the aid of a resinous gum,
a few human teeth, or some bits of bone, a dog's tail, or one or two fish bones. Although the
practice of tattooing is not much in favour among the natives of New Holland, some are occasionally
to be seen who have succeeded by means of sharp shells in cutting symmetrical figures upon
their skins. A more general custom is that of painting on their bodies monstrous designs in
red and white colours which, on their dark skins, give them an almost diabolical aspect.

These savages formerly believed that after death they would take the form of children, and
be transported to the clouds or to the summits of lofty trees, where, in a sort of aërial paradise,
they would be regaled with plentiful repasts. But since the arrival of the Europeans their
faith on this point has undergone some change, their present belief being, that metamorphosed
into whites they will go to inhabit some far-off land. It is also an article of their creed
that the whites themselves are no other than their own ancestors, who, having been killed in
battle, have assumed the form of Europeans.

The census of 1819--one of the strictest hitherto instituted--gives the number of the colonists
at 25,425; this return, it must be understood, does not take in the soldiers. The women being
very much in the minority, the mother-country had made efforts to remedy the inconvenience
resulting from this great disparity of the sexes, by promoting the immigration of young women,
who soon married and founded families of a higher tone of morality than that of the convicts.

Freycinet devotes a very long chapter in his narrative to all matters connected with political
economy. The various soils and the crops suited to them; industrial pursuits; the breeding
of cattle; farming economy; manufactures; foreign trade; means of communication; government;--all
these subjects are treated comprehensively on the authority of documents then newly compiled,
and with an ability that could scarcely have been expected from a man who had not given special
attention to questions of this nature. He has, moreover, added a close inquiry into the regimen
which the convicts were subjected to from the time of their arrival in the colony, the punishments
they had to undergo, as also the encouragements and rewards which were readily granted to them,
when earned by good behaviour. The chapter concludes with reflections full of learning and
sound judgment on the probable development and future prosperity of the Australian colony.

After this long and fruitful stay in New Holland, the Uranie put to sea on the 25th December,
1819, and steered so as to pass to the south of New Zealand and Campbell Island, with the view
of doubling Cape Horn. A few days afterwards ten fugitive convicts were discovered on board;
but the corvette had left the shores of Australia too far behind to allow of their restoration.
The coast of Tierra del Fuego was reached without anything worthy of special notice having
occurred during a very prosperous voyage, with a prevailing west wind. On the 5th February,
Cape Desolation was sighted. Having doubled Cape Horn without any difficulty, the Uranie let
go her anchor in the Bay of Good Success, where the shores, lined with grand forest-trees and
echoing to the sound of waterfalls, presented a scene totally different from the sterile desolation
generally characterizing this quarter of the globe. No long stay was, however, made there;
the corvette resuming her voyage, lost no time in entering the Strait of Le Maire, notwithstanding
a dense haze. Here she met with a heavy swell, a strong gale, and a mist so thick that land,
sea, and sky were confounded in one general obscurity. The rain and the heavy spray raised
by the storm, and the coming on of night, made it necessary to put the Uranie under a close-reefed
topsail and jib, under which pressure of sail she behaved splendidly. The only available course
was to run before the wind, and the travellers had just begun to feel thankful for their good
fortune in being driven by the storm far away from the land, when the cry was heard, "Land
close ahead!"

All hearts sunk with despair; shipwreck and death seemed inevitable. Freycinet alone, after
a brief instant of hesitation, recovered his self-command. It was impossible that land could
be ahead. He, therefore, kept on his northerly course, bearing a little east, and the correctness
of his calculations was soon verified. On the next day but one the weather grew calmer; observations
were taken, and as they proved the vessel to have run a great distance from the Bay of Good
Success, the commander had to choose between a detention off the coast of South America, or
off the Falkland Islands. The island of Conti, the Bay of Marville, and Cape Duras, were successively
observed through the haze, whilst a favourable breeze speeded the corvette on her course to
Berkeley Sound, fixed on as the best place for the next halt.

Mutual congratulations were already being exchanged on the happy termination of the dangerous
struggle, and on the fortunate escape from any serious accident during so hazardous a trip.
The sailors all rejoiced, to use the words of Byron, that--

  "The worst was over, and the rest seemed sure."

But a severe trial was still in store for them!

On entering Berkeley Sound, every man was at his post, ready to let go the anchor. The look-outs
were on the watch, men were stationed in the main-shrouds to heave the lead. Then first at
twenty, after at eighteen fathoms, the presence of rocks was reported. The ship was now about
half a league off shore, and Freycinet thought it prudent to put her off about two points.
This precaution proved fatal, for the corvette suddenly struck violently on a hidden rock.
As she struck, the soundings gave fifteen fathoms to starboard, and twelve to larboard. The
reef against which the corvette had run, was, therefore, not so wide as the vessel itself;
in fact, it was but the pointed summit of a rock.

The immediate rising of pieces of wood to the surface of the water at once gave reason for
fears that the injury was serious. There was a rush to the pumps. Water was pouring into the
hold. Freycinet had sent for a sail, and had it passed under the vessel in such a manner that
the pressure of the water forcing it into the leak in a measure stopped it up. But it was of
no avail. Although the whole ship's company, officers and sailors alike, worked at the pumps,
no more could be done than just keep the water from gaining on the vessel. There was nothing
for it but to run her ashore. This decision, painful as it was, had to be carried out, and
it was indeed no easy task. On every side the land was girded with rocks, and only at the very
bottom of the bay was there a strip of sandy beach favourable for running the ship aground.
Meanwhile the wind had become contrary, night was approaching, the vessel was already half
full of water. The distress of the commander can be imagined. But there was no alternative,
so the vessel was stranded on Penguin Island.

"This effected," to quote Freycinet, "the men were so exhausted that it was necessary to cease
further work of every kind, and to allow the crew an interval of rest, all the more indispensable
on account of the hardships and dangers which our present disastrous situation must entail
upon all. As for myself, repose was out of the question. Tormented by a thousand harassing
reflections, I could scarcely credit my own existence. The sudden transition from a position
where all things seemed to smile on me, to that in which I found myself at that moment, weighed
on my spirits like a horrible nightmare. It was difficult to regain the composure necessary
to face fairly the painful trial. All my companions had done their duty in the frightful accident,
which had all but lost us our lives, and I am glad to be able to do justice to their admirable
conduct.

"As soon as daylight revealed the nature of the country, a mournful gloomy look settled upon
every countenance. Not a tree, not so much as a blade of grass was to be seen, not a sound
was to be heard, and the silent desolation around reminded us of the Bay of Sharks."

But there was no time to be lost in vain lamentations. Was the sea to be allowed to swallow
up the journals and observations, the precious results of so much labour and so many hardships?

All the papers were saved. The same good fortune did not, unfortunately, attend the collections.
Several cases of specimens which were at the bottom of the hold were entirely lost; others
were damaged by the sea water. The collections that sustained the chief injury were those of
natural history, and the herbarium that had been put together with infinite trouble by Gaudichaud.
The merino sheep, generously presented to the expedition by Mr. MacArthur, of Sydney, which
it was hoped could be acclimatized in France, were brought on shore, as also were all the animals
still alive.

A few tents were pitched, first for the sick, happily not very numerous, and then for the officers
and the crew. The provisions and ammunition taken out of the ship were carefully deposited
in a place where they would be sheltered from the inclemency of the weather. The alcoholic
liquors were allowed to remain on board until the time arrived for quitting the scene of the
shipwreck, and during the three months of the expedition's stay here, not a single theft of
rum or of brandy came to light, although no one had anything to drink but pure water.

The efforts of the whole of the expedition were steadily applied to the task of trying to repair
the main injuries sustained by the Uranie, with the exception of a few sailors told off to
provide, by hunting and fishing, for the subsistence of the community. The lakes were frequented
by numbers of sea-lions, geese, ducks, teal, and snipe, but it was no easy matter to procure,
at one time, a sufficient quantity of these animals to serve for the food of the entire crew;
at the same time, the expenditure of powder was necessarily considerable. As good luck would
have it, gulls abounded in sufficient numbers to furnish a hundred and twenty men with food
for four or five months, and these creatures were so stupid as to allow themselves to be knocked
on the head with a stick. A few horses were also killed which had relapsed into a wild state
since the departure of the colony founded by Bougainville.

By the 28th February the painful conclusion was come to, that with the slender resources available,
it was impracticable to repair the damage done to the Uranie, especially as the original injury
had been aggravated by the repeated shocks occasioned by thumping on the beach. "What was to
be done?" Should the explorers calmly wait until some vessel chanced to put in at Berkeley
Sound? This would be to leave the sailors with nothing to do, and this enforced idleness would
open the door to disorder and insubordination. Would it not be better to build a small vessel
out of the wreckage of the Uranie? As it happened, there was a large sloop belonging to the
ship; if the sides were raised, and a deck added, it might be possible to reach Monte Video,
and there obtain the assistance of a vessel capable of bringing off in safety the members of
the expedition and all the cargo worth preserving. This latter plan met with the approval of
Freycinet, and a decision once come to, not a moment was wasted.

The sailors, animated with fresh energy, rapidly pushed on the work. Now was proved the sound
judgment of the commander when manning the corvette at Toulon, in selecting sailors who were
also skilled in some mechanical employment. Blacksmiths, sail-makers, rope-makers, sawyers,
all worked with zeal at the different tasks assigned to them.

No doubts were entertained of the success of the voyage before them. Monte Video was separated
from the Falkland Islands by but three hundred and fifty nautical miles, and with the winds
prevailing in these latitudes at this time of year, this distance could be traversed in a few
days by the Esperance--for so the transformed sloop was named. To provide, at the same time,
against the possible contingency of the frail vessel failing to reach the Rio de la Plata,
Freycinet determined to commence the construction of a schooner of a hundred tons, as soon
as the sloop had taken her departure. Notwithstanding the incessant demands on the energies
of all made by the arduous and varied tasks involved in reconstruction and refitting of the
new vessel, the usual astronomical and physical observations, the natural history researches
and the hydrographical surveys, were not neglected. No one could have imagined that the stay
in Berkeley Sound was anything more than an ordinary halt for exploring purposes.

At last the sloop was finished and safely launched. The instructions for Captain Duperrey,
appointed to take command, were all drawn up; the crew was selected; the provisions were on
board; in two days the adventurers were to sail, when on the 19th March, 1820, the cry was
raised, "A sail! a sail!" A sloop under full sail was seen entering the bay.

A cannon was fired several times to attract attention, and in a short time the master of the
new arrival was on shore. In a few words Freycinet explained to him the misadventure which
had led to the residence of the explorers upon this desolate coast. The master stated in reply
that he was under the orders of the captain of an American ship, the General Knox, engaged
in the seal-fishery at West Island, to the west of the Falklands. An officer was at once deputed
to go and ascertain from the captain what succour he could render to the French travellers.
The result of the interview was a demand for 135,750 francs for the conveyance of the shipwrecked
strangers to Rio--an unworthy advantage to take of the necessities of the unfortunate. To such
a bargain the French officer was unwilling to agree without the consent of his commander; so
he begged the American captain to sail for Berkeley Sound. While these negotiations were going
on, however, another ship, the Mercury, under command of Captain Galvin, had made its appearance
in the bay. The Mercury was bound from Buenos Ayres to Valparaiso with cannon, but just before
doubling Cape Horn she had sprung a leak, and was compelled to put in at the Falkland Islands
to make the necessary repairs. It was a fortunate incident for the Frenchmen, who knew they
could turn to account the competition which must result from the arrival of two ships.

Freycinet at once made an offer to Captain Galvin to repair the damage the Mercury had sustained,
with the materials and the labour at his command, asking in return for this service a free
passage for himself and his companions to Rio de Janeiro.

At the end of fifteen days the repairs of the Mercury were completed. While they were going
on, the negotiation with the General Knox was terminated by a positive refusal on the part
of Freycinet to agree to the extravagant terms proposed by the American captain. It took several
days to come to a settlement with Captain Galvin, who finally made the following agreement.

1. Captain Galvin engaged to convey to Rio the wrecked persons, their papers, collections,
and instruments, as well as all the cargo saved out of the Uranie that could be got on board.

2. Freycinet and his people were during the passage to subsist entirely on the provisions set
apart for them.

3. That the captain was to receive the sum of 97,740 francs within ten days of their arrival
at Rio. By the acceptance of these truly extortionate conditions a bargain, which had cost
much dispute, was finally settled.

Before leaving the Falklands, however, the naturalist, Gaudichaud, planted its destitute shores
with several sorts of vegetables, which he thought likely to be of service to future voyagers
who might be detained there.

A few particulars regarding this archipelago will not be without interest. The group, lying
between 50 degrees 57 minutes, and 52 degrees 45 minutes S. latitude, and 60 degrees 4 minutes,
63 degrees 48 minutes west of the meridian of Paris, consists of several islets and two principal
islands, named Conti and Maidenland. Berkeley Sound, situated in the extreme east of the Conti
Island, is a wide opening, rather deep than extensive, with a shelving rocky coast. The temperature
of the islands is milder than one would expect from the high latitude. Snow does not fall in
any great quantity, and does not remain even on the summits of the highest hills longer than
for about two months. The streams are never frozen, and the lakes and marshes are never covered
with ice hard enough to bear the weight of a man, for more than twenty-four hours consecutively.
From the observations of Weddell, who visited these parts between 1822 and 1824, the temperature
must have risen considerably during the last forty years in consequence of a change in the
direction taken by the icebergs which melt away in the mid-Atlantic. M. Quoy, the naturalist,
judging from the shallowness of the sea between the Falkland Islands and South America, as
well as the resemblance of their grassy plains to the pampas of Buenos Ayres, is of opinion
that they once formed part of the continent. These plains are low, marshy, covered with tall
grass and shrubs, and are inundated in the winter. Peat is abundant and makes excellent fuel.
The character of the soil has proved an obstacle to the growth of the trees which Bougainville
endeavoured to acclimatize, of which scarce a vestige remained at the time of Freycinet's visit.
The plant which reaches the greatest height and grows most plentifully is a species of sword-grass,
excellent food for cattle, and serving also as a place of shelter to numbers of seals and multitudes
of gulls. It is this high grass which sailors have taken from a distance for bushes. The only
vegetables growing on these islands of any use to man are celery, scurvy-grass, watercress,
dandelion, raspberries, sorrel, and pimpernel.

Both French and Spanish colonists had at different times imported into these islands oxen,
horses, and pigs, which had multiplied to a singular extent in the island of Conti; but the
persistent hunting of them by the crews of the whaling ships must tend to considerably reduce
their numbers. The only quadruped indigenous to the Falkland Islands is the Antarctic dog,
the muzzle of which strikingly resembles that of the fox. It has therefore had the name dog-fox,
or wolf-fox, given to it by whalers. These animals are so fierce that they rushed into the
water to attack Byron's sailors. They, however, find rabbits enough, whose reproductive powers
are limitless, to satisfy them; but the seals, which the dogs attack without any fear, manage
to escape from them.

The Mercury set sail on the 28th of April, 1821, to convey Freycinet and his crew to the port
of Rio de Janeiro. But one point Captain Galvin had failed to take into his reckoning,--his
ship, equipped under the flag of the Independent State of Buenos Ayres, then at war with the
Portuguese, would be seized on entering the harbour of Rio, and he himself with all his crew
would be made prisoners. On this he endeavoured to make Freycinet cancel the engagement between
them, hoping to prevail on him to land at Monte Video. But as Freycinet would not agree to
this proposal on any ground, a new contract had to be substituted for the original one. According
to the latter arrangement Freycinet became proprietor of the Mercury on behalf of the French
navy by payment of the sum stipulated under the first contract. The ship was renamed the Physicienne,
and reached Monte Video on the 8th of May, where the command was taken over by Freycinet. The
stay at Monte Video was made use of for arming the vessel, arranging its trim, repairing the
rigging, taking on board the supply of water and provisions requisite for the trip to Rio de
Janeiro; before reaching which port, however, several serious defects in the ship had been
discovered. The appearance of the Physicienne was so distinctly mercantile that on entering
the port of Rio, though the flag of a man-of-war was flying at the masthead, the customs officers
were deceived and proposed to inspect her as a merchant-vessel. Extensive repairs were absolutely
necessary, and the making of them compelled Freycinet to remain at Rio until the 18th of September.
He was then able to take his departure direct for France; and on the 13th of November, 1820,
he cast anchor in the port of Havre, after an absence of three years and two months, during
which time he had sailed over 18,862 nautical miles.

A few days after his return, Freycinet proceeded to Paris, suffering from a severe illness,
and forwarded to the secretary of the Academy of Sciences the scientific records of the voyage,
which made no less than thirty-one quarto volumes. At the same time, the naturalists attached
to the expedition, MM. Quoy, Gaimard, and Gaudichaud, submitted the specimens which they had
collected. Among these were four previously unknown species of mammiferous animals, forty-five
of fishes, thirty of reptiles, besides rare kinds of molluscs, polypes, annelides, &c., &c.

The rules of the French service required that Freycinet should be summoned before a council
of war to answer for the loss of his ship. The trial terminated in a unanimous verdict of acquittal
from all blame, the council expressing at the same time their hearty acknowledgment of the
energy and ability displayed by the commander, approving, moreover, the skilful and careful
measures he had taken to remedy the disastrous results of his shipwreck. A few days after,
being received by the king, Louis XVIII., his Majesty, accompanying him to the door, said,
"You entered here the captain of a frigate, you depart the captain of a ship of the line. Offer
me no thanks; reply in the words used by Jean Bart to Louis XIV., 'Sire, you have done well!'"

From that time Freycinet devoted himself entirely to the task of publishing the notes of his
travels. The meagre account which has been given here will serve to show how extensive these
notes were. But the extreme conscientiousness of the explorer prevented him from publishing
anything which was not complete, and he was bent on placing his work in advance of the recognized
boundaries of knowledge at that date. Even the mere classification of the vast quantity of
material which he had collected during his voyage demanded a large expenditure of time. Thus
it was that when surprised by death on the 18th of August, 1842, he had not put the last finishing
touch to one of the most curious and novel divisions of his work, that relating to the languages
of Oceania with special reference to that of the Marianne Islands.

At the close of the year 1821 the Marquis de Clermont Tonnerre, then Minister of Marine, received
the scheme of a new voyage from two young officers, MM. Duperrey and Dumont d'Urville. The
former, second in command to Freycinet on board the Uranie, after having rendered valuable
assistance to the expedition by his scientific researches and surveys, had within the year
returned to France; the other, the colleague of Captain Garnier, had brought himself into notice
during the hydrographical cruises in the Mediterranean and Black Seas, which it had fallen
to Captain Garnier to complete. He had a fine taste for botany and art, and had been one of
the first to draw attention to the artistic value of the Venus of Milos which had just been
discovered. These two young savants proposed in the plan submitted by them to make special
researches into three departments of natural science--magnetism, meteorology, and the configuration
of the globe. "In the geographical department," said Duperrey, "we would propose to verify
or to rectify, either by direct, or by chronometrical observations, the position of a great
number of points in different parts of the globe, especially among the numerous island groups
of the Pacific Ocean, notorious for shipwrecks, and so remarkable for the character and the
form of the shoals, sandbanks, and reefs, of which they in part consist; also to trace new
routes through the Dangerous Archipelago and the Society Islands, side by side with those taken
by Quiros, Wallis, Bougainville, and Cook; to carry on hydrographical surveys in continuation
of those made in the voyages of D'Entrecasteaux and of Freycinet in Polynesia, New Holland,
and the Molucca Islands; and particularly to visit the Caroline Islands, discovered by Magellan,
about which, with the exception of the eastern side, examined in our own time by Captain Kotzebue,
we have only very vague information, communicated by the missionaries, and by them learnt from
stories told by savages who had lost their way and were driven in their canoes upon the Marianne
Islands. The languages, character, and customs of these islanders must also receive special
and careful attention."

The naval doctors, Garnon and Lesson, were placed in charge of the natural history department,
whilst the staff was composed of officers most remarkable for their scientific attainments,
among whom may be mentioned MM. Lesage, Jacquinot, Bérard, Lottin, De Blois, and De Blosseville.

The Academy of Sciences took up the plan of research submitted by the originators of this expedition
with much enthusiasm, and furnished them with minute instructions, in which were set forth
with care the points on which accurate scientific information was especially desirable. At
the same time the instruments supplied to the explorers were the most finished and complete
of their kind.

The vessel chosen for the expedition was the Coquille, a small ship, not drawing more than
from twelve to thirteen feet of water, which was lying in ordinary at Toulon. The time spent
in refitting, stowing the cargo, arming the ship, prevented the expedition from starting earlier
than the 11th of August, 1822. The island of Teneriffe was reached on the 28th of the same
month, and there the officers hoped to be able to make a few gleanings after the rich harvest
of knowledge which their predecessors had reaped; but the Council of Health in the island,
having received information of an outbreak of yellow fever on the shores of the Mediterranean,
imposed on the Coquille a quarantine of fifteen days. It happened, however, that at that period
political opinion was in a state of fervid excitement at Teneriffe, and party spirit ran so
high in society that the inhabitants found it hard to come together without also coming to
blows. Under these circumstances it is easy to imagine that the French officers did not indulge
in violent regrets over the privations which they had to sustain. The eight days during which
their stay at Teneriffe lasted were given up exclusively to the revictualling of the ship,
and to magnetic and astronomical observations.

Towards the end of September anchor was weighed, and on the 6th of October the work of surveying
the islands of Martin-Vaz and of Trinidad was commenced. The former are nothing more than bare
rocks rising out of the sea, of a most forbidding aspect. The island of Trinidad is high land,
rugged and barren, with a few trees crowning the southern point. This island is none other
than the famous Ascençao--now called Ascension--which for three centuries had been the object
of exploring research. In 1700 it was taken possession of by the celebrated Halley in the name
of the English Government, but it had to be ceded to the Portuguese, who formed a settlement
there. La Pérouse found it still in existence at the same place in 1785. The settlement, which
turned out expensive and useless, was abandoned a short time after the visit just referred
to, and the island was left in the occupation of the dogs, pigs, and goats, whose progenitors
had entered the island in company with the early colonists.

When he left the island of Trinidad, Duperrey purposed to steer a direct course for the Falkland
Islands; but an accidental damage, in the repair of which no time was to be lost, compelled
him to alter his course for the island of St. Catherine, where only he could obtain without
any delay the wood required for new yards and masts, as well as provisions, which from their
abundance could there be bought very cheap. As he drew near to the island he was delighted
with the grand and picturesque scene presented by its dense forests, where laurel-trees, sassafras,
cedars, orange-trees, and mangroves intermingled with banana and other palms, with their feathery
foliage waving gracefully in the breeze. Just four days before the corvette anchored off St.
Catherine, Brazil had cast off the authority of the mother-country, and declared its independence
by the proclamation of Prince Don Pedro d'Alcantara as Emperor. This led the commander to despatch
a mission consisting of MM. d'Urville, de Blosseville, Gabert, and Garnot to the capital of
the island, Nossa-Senhora-del-Desterro, to make inquiries about the political change, and learn
how far it might modify the friendly relations of the country with France. It appeared that
the administration of the province was in the hands of a Junto, but orders were at once given
to allow the French travellers to cut what wood they might stand in need of, and the Governor
of the Fort of Santa Cruz was requested to further the scientific inquiries of the Expedition
by all the means at his command. As to provisions, however, there was considerable difficulty,
for the merchants had transferred their funds to Rio, in apprehension of what the political
change might result in. It is probable that this circumstance accounts for the commander of
the Coquille finding the course of business not run smooth in a port which had received the
warm recommendations of Captains Kruzenstern and Kotzebue.

The narrative of the travellers states that "the inhabitants were living in expectation of
the island being shortly attacked with the view to recolonization, which they considered would
be tantamount to their enslavement. The decree issued on the 1st August, 1822, calling on all
Brazilians to arm themselves for the defence of their shores and proclaiming under all circumstances
a war of partisans had given rise to these fears. The measures which Prince Don Pedro propounded
were equally generous and vigorous, and had created a favourable opinion of his character and
of his desire to promote freedom. Full of confidence in his purposes, the strong party in favour
of independence were filled with enthusiasm expressing itself all the more boisterously as
for so long a time their fervid aspirations had been kept under restraint. They now gave open
demonstration of their joy by making the towns of Nossa-Senhora-del-Desterro, Laguna, and San
Francisco one blaze of light with their illuminations, and marching through the streets singing
verses in honour of Don Pedro."

But the excitement which had been thus strikingly manifested in the towns was not shared by
the quiet peace-loving dwellers in the rural districts, to whose breasts political passion
was an entire stranger. And there cannot be a doubt that, if Portugal had been in a position
to enforce her decrees by the despatch of a fleet, the province would have been easily reconquered.

The Coquille set sail again on the 30th October. When to the east of Rio de la Plata she was
caught in one of those formidable gales, there called pampero, but had the good fortune to
weather it without sustaining any damage.

While in this part of the ocean Duperrey made some interesting observations on the current
of the Plate River. Freycinet had already established the fact of its flowing at the rate of
two miles and a half an hour, at a distance of a hundred leagues to the east of Monte Video.
It was reserved to the commander of the Coquille to ascertain that the current is sensibly
felt at a much greater distance; he proved moreover that the water of the river resisted by
that of the ocean is forcibly divided into two branches running in the direction of the two
banks of the river at its mouth; and finally he accounts for the comparative shallowness of
the sea down to the shores of the Magellan Strait by the immense residuum of earth held in
suspension by the waters of the La Plata and deposited daily along the coast of South America.

Before entering Berkeley Sound the Coquille, driven by a favourable breeze, passed immense
shoals of whales and dolphins, flocks of gulls and numerous flying fish, the ordinary tenants
of those tempestuous regions. The Falkland Isles were reached, and Duperrey with a few of his
fellow-travellers felt a lively pleasure at revisiting the land which had been to them a place
of refuge for three months after their shipwreck in the Uranie. They paid a visit to the spot
where the camp had been pitched. The remains of the corvette were almost entirely imbedded
in sand, and what was visible of it bore marks of the appropriations which had been made by
the whalers who had followed them in that place. On all sides were scattered miscellaneous
fragments, carronades with the knobs broken off, pieces of the rigging, tattered clothes, shreds
of sails, unrecognizable rags, mingled with the bones of the animals which the castaways had
killed for food. "This scene of our recent calamity," Duperrey observes, "wore an aspect of
desolation which was rendered still gloomier by the barrenness of the land and the dark rainy
weather prevailing at the time of our visit. Nevertheless, it had for us an inexplicable sort
of attraction and left a melancholy impression on our minds, which was not effaced till long
after we had left the Falkland Islands well behind us."

The stay of Duperrey at the Falklands was prolonged to the 17th December. He took up his residence
in the midst of the ruins of the settlement founded by Bougainville, in order to execute certain
repairs which the condition of his vessel required. The crew provided themselves by fishing
and hunting with an ample supply of food; everything necessary was found in abundance, except
fruit and vegetables; and having laid in abundant stores, all prepared to confront the dangers
of the passage round Cape Horn.

At first the Coquille had to struggle against strong winds from the south-west and violent
currents; these were succeeded by squalls and hazy weather until the island of Mocha was reached
on the 19th January, 1823. Of this island a brief mention has already been made. Duperrey places
it in 38 degrees 20 minutes 30 seconds S. lat., and 76 degrees 21 minutes 55 seconds W. long.,
and reckons it to be about twenty-four miles in circumference. Consisting of a chain of mountains
of moderate elevation, sloping down towards the sea, it was the rendezvous of the early explorers
of the Pacific. It furnished the ships touching there, now a merchantman, now a pirate, with
horses and with wild pigs, the flesh of which had a well-known reputation for delicacy of flavour.
Here was also a good supply of pure fresh water, as well as of some European fruits, such as
apples, peaches, and cherries, the growth of trees planted here by those who first took possession
of the island. In 1823, however, these resources had all but disappeared, through the wasteful
practices of improvident whalers. At no great distance might be seen the two round eminences
which mark the mouth of the river Bio-Bio, the small island of Quebra-Ollas, and that of Quiriquina,
and, these passed, the Bay of Conception opened to view, where was a solitary English whaler
about to double the Cape, to which was entrusted the correspondence for home, as well as the
notes of the work that had already been accomplished.

On the day after the arrival of the Coquille, as soon as the morning sun had lit up the bay,
the melancholy and desolate appearance of the place, which had taken every one by surprise
on the previous evening, became still more depressing. The name of the town was Talcahuano;
and the picture it presented was one of houses in ruins and silent streets. A few wretched
canoes, ready to fall to pieces, were on the beach; near them loitered a few poorly clad fishermen;
while in front of the tumble-down cottages and roofless huts sat women in rags employed in
combing one another's hair. In contrast with this human squalor, the surrounding hills and
woods, the gardens and the orchards, were clothed in the most splendid foliage; on every side
flowers displayed their gorgeous colours, and fruits proclaimed their ripeness in tints of gold.

Overhead a glowing sun, a sky without a cloud, completed the bitter irony of the spectacle.
All this ruin, desolation, and wretchedness were the outward and visible signs of a series
of revolutions. At St. Catherine the French travellers had been witnesses of the declaration
of Brazilian independence; on the opposite side of the continent they were spectators of the
downfall of Director O'Higgins. This official had evaded the summons of the Congress, had sacrificed
the interests of the agricultural community to those of the traders and merchants, by the imposition
of direct taxes and the lowering of customs duties; was openly accused, as well as his ministers,
of peculation; and as the result of all this malversation the greater part of the population
had risen in revolt. The movement against O'Higgins was led by a General D. Ramon Freire y
Serrano, who gave formal assurances to the explorers that the political disturbance should
be no impediment to the revictualling of the Coquille.

On the 26th January two corvettes arrived at Conception. They brought a regiment under the
command of a French official, Colonel Beauchef, who came to assist General Freire. The regiment,
which had been organized by the exertions of Colonel Beauchef, was in point of steadiness,
discipline, and knowledge of drill, one of the smartest in the Chilian army.

On the 2nd February the officers of the Coquille proceeded to Conception, to pay a visit to
General Freire. The nearer they approached the city the more fields were lying waste, the more
ruined houses were seen, the fewer people were visible, while their clothing had almost reached
the vanishing-point. At the entrance of the town itself stood a mast, with the head of a notorious
bandit affixed to the top, one Benavidez, a ferocious savage, more wild beast than man, whose
name was long execrated in Chili for the horrible atrocities he had committed.

The interior of the town was found as desolate in appearance as the approach to it. Having
been set fire to by each party that had successively been victorious, Conception was nothing
more than a heap of ruins, amongst which loitered a little remnant of scantily clothed inhabitants,
the wretched residuum of a once flourishing population. Grass was growing in the streets, the
bishop's palace and the cathedral were the only buildings still standing, and these, roofless
and gutted, would not be able much longer to resist the dilapidating influence of the climate.

General Freire, before placing himself in opposition to O'Higgins, had arranged a peace with
the Araucanians, an indigenous tribe distinguished for their bravery, who had not only maintained
their own independence but were always ready, when opportunity offered, to encroach on the
Spanish territory. Some of these natives were employed as auxiliary troops in the Chilian army.
Duperrey saw them, and, having obtained from General Freire and Colonel Beauchef trustworthy
information, has given a not very flattering description of them, of which the substance shall
be here given.

The Araucanians are of an ordinary stature, in complexion copper-coloured, with small, black,
vivacious eyes, a rather flat nose, and thick lips; the result of which is an expression of
brutal ferocity. Divided into tribes, each one jealous of another, all animated by an unbridled
lust of plunder, and ever on the move, their lives are spent in perpetual warfare. The mounted
Araucanian is armed with a long lance, a long cutlass, sabre-shaped, called a "Machete,"[5]
and the lasso, in the use of which they are extremely expert, while the horse he rides is usually
swift.

[Footnote 5: This is a weapon shorter than a sword and longer than a dagger.--Trans.]

"Sometimes they are known," says Duperrey, "to receive under their protection vanquished enemies
and become their defenders; but the motive prompting them to this seemingly generous conduct
is always one of special vindictiveness; the fact being that their real object is the total
extermination of some tribe allied with the opposite party. Among themselves hatred is the
ruling passion; it is the only enduring bond of fidelity. All display undoubted courage, spirit,
recklessness, implacability towards their enemies, whom they massacre with a shocking insensibility.
Haughty in manner and revengeful in disposition, they treat all strangers with unqualified
suspicion, but they are hospitable and generous to all whom they take as friends. All their
passions are easily excited, but they are inordinately sensitive with regard to their liberty
and their rights, which they are ever ready to defend sword in hand. Never forgetting an injury,
they know not how to forgive; nothing less than the life-blood of their enemies can quench
their thirst for vengeance."

Duperrey pledges himself to the truth of the picture which he has here drawn of these savage
children of the Andes, who at least deserve the credit of having from the sixteenth century
to the present day managed to preserve their independence against the attacks of all invaders.

After the departure of General Freire, and the troops he led away with him, Duperrey took advantage
of the opportunity to get his vessel provisioned as quickly as possible. The water and the
biscuits were soon on board; but longer time was necessary to procure supplies of coal, which,
however, was to be got without any other expense save that of paying the muleteers, who transported
it to the beach from a mine scarcely beneath the level of the earth, where it was to be picked
up for nothing.

Although the events happening at Conception during the detention there of the Coquille were
far from being cheerful, the prevailing depression could not hold out against the traditional
festivities of the Carnival. Dinners, receptions, and balls recommenced, and the departure
of the troops made itself felt only in the paucity of cavaliers. The French officers, in acknowledgment
of the hospitable welcome offered to them, gave two balls at Talcahuano, and several families
came from Conception for the sole purpose of being present at them.

Unfortunately, Duperrey's narrative breaks off at the date of his quitting Chili, and there
is no longer any official record from which to gather the details of a voyage so interesting
and successful. Far from being able to trace step by step from original documents the course
of the expedition, as has been done in the case of other travellers, we are obliged in our
turn to epitomize other epitomes now lying before us. It is an unpleasing task; as little agreeable
to the reader as it is difficult for the writer, who, while bound to respect facts, is no longer
able to enliven his narrative with personal observations, and the generally lively stories
of the travellers themselves. However, some few of the letters of the navigator to the Minister
of Marine have been published, from which have been extracted the following details.

On the 15th February, 1823, the Coquille set sail from Conception for Payta, the place where,
in 1595, Alvarez de Mendana and Fernandez de Quiros took ship on the voyage of discovery that
has made their names famous; but after a fortnight's sail the corvette was becalmed in the
vicinity of the island of Laurenzo, and Duperrey resolved to put in at Callao to obtain fresh
provisions. It need not be said that Callao is the port of Lima; so the officers could not
lose the opportunity of paying a visit to the capital of Peru. They were not fortunate in the
time of their visit. The ladies were away for sea-bathing at Miraflores, and the men of most
distinction in the place had gone with them. The travellers were thus compelled to rest content
with an inspection of the chief residences and public buildings of the city, returning to Callao
on the 4th March. On the 9th of the same month the Coquille anchored at Payta.

The situation of this place between the terrestrial and magnetic equators was most favourable
for conducting observations on the variations of the magnetic needle. The naturalists also
made excursions to the desert of Pierra, where they collected specimens of petrified shells
imbedded in a tertiary stratum precisely similar to that in the suburbs of Paris. As soon as
all the sources of scientific interest at Payta had been exhausted the Coquille resumed her
voyage, setting sail for Otaheite. During the sail thither a circumstance occurred which might
have materially delayed the progress of the expedition, if not have led to its total destruction.
On the night of the 22nd April, the Coquille being in the waters of the Dangerous Archipelago,
the officer of the watch all at once heard the sound of breakers dashing over reefs. He immediately
made the ship lie to, and at daybreak the peril which had been escaped became manifest. At
the distance of barely a mile and a half from the corvette lay a low island, well wooded, and
fringed with rocks along its entire extent. A few people lived on it, some of whom approached
the vessel in a canoe, but none of them would venture on board. Duperrey had to give up all
thoughts of visiting the island, which received the name of Clermont-Tonnerre. On all sides
the waves broke violently on the rocks, and he could do no more than coast it from end to end
at a little distance.

The next and following days some small islands of no note were discovered, to which were given
the names of Augier, Freycinet, and Lostanges.

At length, as the sun rose on the 3rd May, the verdant shores and woody mountains of Otaheite
came in sight. Duperrey, like preceding visitors, could not help noticing the thorough change
which had been effected in the manners and practices of the natives. Not a canoe came alongside
the Coquille. It was the hour of Divine worship when the corvette entered the Bay of Matavai,
and the missionaries had collected the whole population of the island, to the number of seven
thousand, inside the principal church of Papahoa to discuss the articles of a new code of laws.
The Otaheitan orators, it seems, would not yield the palm to those of Europe. There were not
a few of them gifted with the valuable talent of being able to talk for several hours without
saying anything, and to make an end of the most promising undertakings with the flowers of
their rhetoric. A description of one of these meetings is given by D'Urville.

"M. Lejeune, the draughtsman of the expedition, went by himself to be present at the meeting
held the next day, when certain political questions were submitted to the popular assembly.
It lasted for several hours, during which the chiefs took it in turn to speak. The most brilliant
speaker of the gathering was a chief called Tati. The chief point of discussion was the imposition
of an annual poll-tax at the rate of five measures of oil per man. Then came a question as
to the taxes which were to be levied, whether they should be on behalf of the king, or on behalf
of the missionaries. After some time, we arrived at the conclusion that the first question
had been answered in the affirmative; but that the second, the one relating to the missionaries,
had been postponed by themselves from a forecast of its probable failure. About four thousand
persons were present at this kind of national congress."

Two months before, Otaheite had renounced the English flag, in order to adopt one of its own,
but that pacific revolution in no wise diminished the confidence which the people placed in
their missionaries. The latter received the French travellers in a friendly manner, and supplied
them at the usual prices with the stores of which they stood in need.

But what seemed especially curious in the reforms effected by the missionaries was the total
change in the behaviour of the women. From being, according to the statements of Cook, Bougainville,
and contemporary explorers, compliant to an unheard of degree, they had become most modest,
reserved, and decently conducted; so that the whole island wore the air of a convent, a revolution
as amusing as it was unnatural.

From Otaheite the Coquille proceeded to the adjacent island of Borabora, belonging to the same
group, where European customs had been adopted to the same extent; and on the 9th June, steering
a westerly course, made a survey in turn of the islands Salvage, Coa, Santa Cruz, Bougainville,
and Bouka; finally coming to an anchor in the harbour of Praslin, on the coast of New Ireland,
famous for its beautiful waterfall. "The friendly relations which were established with the
natives there were the means of extending our knowledge of the human race by the observation
of some peculiarities which had not fallen under the notice of preceding travellers." The sentence
just quoted from an abridged account appearing in the "Annals of Voyages," which merely excites
curiosity without satisfying it, causes us here to express our regret that the original narrative
of the voyage has not been published in its entirety.

The student Porel de Blossville--the same who afterwards lost his life with the Lilloise in
the Polar regions--undertook a journey to the village of Praslin, in spite of all the means
adopted by the savages to deter him. When there he was shown a kind of temple, where several
ill-shaped, grotesque idols had been set up on a platform surrounded by walls.

Great pains were taken to prepare a chart of St. George's Channel, after which Duperrey paid
a visit to the islands previously surveyed by Schouten to the north-east of New Guinea. Three
days--the 26th, 27th, and 28th--were devoted to a survey of them. The explorer, after this,
searched ineffectually for the islands Stephen and De Carteret, and after comparing his own
route with that taken by D'Entrecasteaux in 1792, he came to the conclusion that this group
must be identical with that of Providence, discovered long since by Dampier.

On the 3rd of September the north cape of New Guinea was recognized. Three days later the Coquille
entered the narrow and rocky harbour of Offak on the north-west coast of Waigiou, one of the
Papuan islands. The only navigator who has mentioned this harbour is Forest. Duperrey therefore
felt unusual satisfaction at having explored a corner of the earth all but untrodden by the
foot of the European. It was also an interesting fact for geographers that the existence of
a southern bay, separated from Offak by a very narrow isthmus, was established.

Two officers, MM. d'Urville and de Blossville, were employed in this work, which MM. Berard,
Lottin, and de Blois de la Calande connected with that accomplished by Duperrey on the coast
during the cruise of the Uranie. This land was found to be particularly rich in vegetable products,
and D'Urville was able there to form the nucleus of a collection as valuable for the novelty
as the beauty of its specimens.

D'Urville and Lesson, full of curiosity to study the inhabitants, who belonged to the Papuan
race, started for the shore immediately after the corvette arrived at the island in a boat
manned with seven sailors. They had already walked some distance in a deluge of rain, when
all at once they found themselves opposite a cottage built upon piles, and covered over with
leaves of the plane-tree.

Cowering amongst the bushes, at a little distance, was a young female savage, who seemed to
be watching them. A few paces nearer was a heap of about a dozen cocoa-nuts freshly gathered,
placed well in sight, apparently intended for the refreshment of the visitors. The Frenchmen
came to understand that this was a present offered by the youthful savage of whom they had
caught a glimpse, and proceeded to feast on the fruits so opportunely placed at their disposal.
The native girl, soon gathering confidence from the quiet behaviour of the strangers, came
forward, crying, "Bongous!" (good!), making signs to show that the cocoa-nuts had been presented
by herself. Her delicate attention was rewarded by the gift of a necklace and earrings.

When D'Urville regained the boat he found a dozen Papuans playing, eating, and seeming on the
best possible terms with the boatmen. "In a short time," he says, "they had surrounded me,
repeating, 'Captain, bongous,' and offering various tokens of good will. These people are,
in general, of diminutive stature, their constitution is slight and feeble; leprosy is a common
disease among them; their voice is soft, their behaviour grave, polite, and even marked with
a certain air of melancholy that is habitually characteristic of them."

Among the antique statues of which the Louvre is full, there is one of Polyhymnia, which is
celebrated above the rest for an expression of melancholy pensiveness not usually found among
the ancients. It is a singular circumstance that D'Urville should have observed among the Papuans
the very expression of countenance distinguishing this antique statue. On board the corvette
another company of natives were conducting themselves with a calmness and reserve, offering
a marked contrast to the usual manner of the greater part of the inhabitants of the lands of
Oceania.

The same impression was made on the French travellers during a visit paid to the rajah of the
island, as also during his return visit on board the Coquille. In one of the villages on this
southern bay was observed a kind of temple, in which were to be seen several rudely carved
statues, painted over with various colours, and ornamented with feathers and matting. It was
quite impossible to obtain the slightest information on the subject of the worship which the
natives paid to these idols.

The Coquille set sail again on the 16th September, coasting along the north side of the islands
lying between Een and Yang, and after a brief stay at Cayeli reached Amboyna, where the remarkably
kind reception given by M. Merkus, the governor of the Molucca Island, afforded the staff an
interval of rest from the continual labours of this troublesome voyage. The 27th October saw
the corvette again on its course, steering towards Timor and westward of the Turtle and Lucepara
Islands. Duperrey next determined the position of the island of Vulcan; sighted the islands
of Wetter, Baba, Dog, Cambing, and finally, entering the channel of Ombay, surveyed a large
number of points in the chain of islands stretching from Pantee and Ombay in the direction
of Java. After having made a chart of Java, and an ineffectual search for the Trial Islands
in the place usually assigned to them, Duperrey steered for New Holland, but through contrary
winds was not able to sail along the western coast of the island. On the 10th January he at
length rounded Van Diemen's Island, and six days after that sighted the lights of Port Jackson,
coming to an anchor off Sydney the following day.

The governor, Sir Thomas Brisbane, who had received previous intimation of the arrival of the
Expedition, gave the officers a cordial welcome, forwarded with all the means at his command
the revictualling of the corvette, and rendered friendly assistance in the repairs which the
somewhat shattered condition of the ship rendered necessary. He also provided means to enable
MM. d'Urville and Lesson to make an excursion, full of interest, beyond the Blue Mountains
into the plain of Bathurst, the resources of which were as yet but imperfectly known to Europeans.

Duperrey did not leave Australia until the 20th of March. On this occasion he directed his
course towards New Zealand, which had been rather overlooked in former voyages. The vessel
came to an anchor in the Bay of Manawa, forming the southern part of the grand Bay of Islands.
Here the officers occupied their leisure in scientific and geographical observations, and in
making researches in natural history. At the same time, the frequent intercourse of the explorers
with the natives threw quite a new light upon their manners, their religious notions, their
language, and on their attitude of hostility up to that time to the teaching of the missionaries.
What these savages most appreciated in European civilization was well-finished weapons--of
which at that time they possessed a great quantity--for by their help they were the better
able to indulge their sanguinary instincts.

The stay of the Coquille at New Zealand terminated on the 17th of April, when a détour was
made northwards as far as Rotuma, discovered, but not visited, by Captain Wilson in 1797. The
inhabitants, gentle and hospitable, took great pains to furnish the navigators with the provisions
they required. But it was not long before the Frenchmen discovered that these gentle islanders,
taking advantage of the confidence which they had known how to create, had carried off a number
of articles that it afterwards cost much trouble to make them restore. Stringent orders were
given, and all thieves caught in the act were flogged in the presence of their fellow-countrymen,
who, however, as well as the culprits themselves, treated the affair only as a joke.

Among these savages four Europeans were observed, who had a long time before deserted from
the whale-ship Rochester. They were no better clothed than the natives, and were tatooed and
smeared with a yellow powder after the native fashion; so that it would have been hard to recognize
them but for their white skins and more intelligent looks. They were quite content with their
lot, having married wives and reared families at Rotuma, where, escaping the cares, the troubles,
and the difficulties of civilized life, they reckoned on ending their days in comfort. One
among them asked to be allowed to remain on board the Coquille, a favour which Duperrey was
ready to grant, but the chief of the island was unwilling, until he learned that two convicts
from Port Jackson asked permission to stay on shore.

Although these people, hitherto little known, offered a most interesting subject of study to
the naturalists, it was necessary to depart, so the Coquille proceeded to survey the Coral
Isles and St. Augustin, discovered by Maurelle in 1781. Then came Drummond Island, where the
inhabitants, dark complexioned, with slight limbs, and unintelligent faces, offered to exchange
some triangular shells, commonly called holy water cups, for knives and fishhooks; next the
islands of Sydenham and Henderville, where the inhabitants go entirely naked; after them, Woolde,
Hupper, Hall, Knox, Charlotte, Mathews, which form the Gilbert Archipelago; and finally the
Marshall and Mulgrave groups.

On the 3rd of June Duperrey came in sight of the island of Ualan, which had been discovered
in 1804 by an American, Captain Croser. As it was not marked upon any chart, the commander
decided upon making an exact and particular survey of it. No sooner had the anchor touched
the bottom than Duperrey, accompanied by some of his officers, made for the shore. The inhabitants
turned out to be a mild and obliging race, who made their visitors presents of cocoa-nuts and
the fruit of the bread-tree, conducting them through most picturesque scenery to the dwelling
of their principal chief, or "Uross-ton," as he was called. Dumont d'Urville has given the
following sketch of the country through which the travellers passed on their way to the residence
of the chief.

"We glided calmly across a magnificent basin girdled in by a well-wooded shore, the foliage
a bright green. Behind us rose the lofty hill-tops, carpeted with verdure, from which shot
up the light and graceful stems of the cocoa palms. Out of the sea to the front rose the little
island of Leilei, covered with the pretty cottages of the islanders, and crowned with a verdant
mound. If this pleasant prospect be further brightened by a magnificent day, in a delicious
climate, some notion may be formed of the sensations we experienced as we proceeded in a sort
of triumphal procession, surrounded by a crowd of simple, gentle, kind attendants."

The number of persons accompanying the boats D'Urville estimated at about 800. On arriving
before a neat and charming village, with well paved streets, they divided themselves, the men
standing on one side, the women on the other, maintaining an impressive silence. Two chiefs
advanced, and taking the travellers by the hand, conducted them to the dwelling of the "Uross-ton."
The crowd, still silent, remained outside while the Frenchmen entered the chief's house. The
"Uross-ton" shortly made his appearance, a pale and shrivelled old man, bowed down under the
weight of fourscore years. The Frenchmen politely rose on his entering the room, but they were
apprised by a whisper of disapproval from those standing about that this was a violation of
the local etiquette. The crowd in front prostrated themselves on the ground. The chiefs themselves
could not withhold that mark of respect. The old man, recovering from a momentary surprise
at the boldness of the strangers, called upon his subjects to keep silence, then seated himself
near the travellers. In return for the trifling presents which were made to him and his wife,
he vouchsafed marks of goodwill in the shape of slight pats on the cheek, the shoulder, or
the thigh. But the gratitude of these sovereigns was expressed only by the gift of seven so-called
"tots"--probably pieces of cloth--four of which were of very fine tissue.

After the audience was over the travellers proceeded to look round the village, where they
were astonished to find two immense walls made of coral, some blocks of which were of immense
size and weight.

Notwithstanding a few acts of petty theft committed by the chiefs, the ten days during which
the expedition remained at the island passed without disturbance; the good understanding on
which the intercourse between the Frenchmen and the Ualanese was based never suffered a moment's
interruption. Duperrey remarks that "it is easy to predict that this island of Ualan will one
day become of considerable importance. It is situated in the midst of the Caroline group, in
the course of ships sailing from New Holland to China, and presents good ports for careening
vessels, ample supplies of water, and provisions of various kinds. The inhabitants are generous
and peaceably disposed, and they will soon be in a position to supply a kind of food most essential
to sailors, from the progeny of the sows that we left with them, a gift which excited a very
lively gratitude."

Subsequent events, however, have not verified the forecast made by Duperrey. Although a route
from Europe to China, by the south of Van Diemen's Island, passes near the coast of Ualan,
the island is of little more value now than it was fifty years ago. Steam has completely revolutionized
the conditions of navigation. Sailors at the commencement of the century could not possibly
foresee the radical changes which the introduction of this agent would produce.

The Coquille had not gone more than two days' sail from Ualan, when on the 17th, 18th, and
23rd June were discovered several new islands, which by the native inhabitants were called
Pelelap, Takai, Aoura, Ougai, and Mongoul. These are the groups usually called Mac-Askyll and
Duperrey, the people resembling those of Ualan, who, as well as those of the Radak Islands,
give to their chiefs the title of "Tamon."

On the 24th of the same month the Coquille found herself in the middle of the Hogoleu group,
which Kotzebue had looked for in too high a latitude, the commander recognizing their bearings
by means of certain names given by the natives, which were found entered in the chart of Father
Cantova. The hydrographical survey of this group, contained within a circumference of at least
thirty leagues, was executed by M. Blois from the 24th to the 27th June. The islands are for
the most part high, terminating in volcanic peaks; but some are of opinion, judging from the
arrangement of the lagoon, that they are of madreporic formation. They are tenanted by a race
of diminutive, badly-shaped people, subject moreover to repulsive complaints. If ever the converse
of the phrase mens sana in corpore sano can find a just application, it must be here, for these
natives are low in the scale of intelligence, and inferior by many degrees to the people of
Ualan. Even at that time foreign styles of dress appeared to have found their way into the
islands. Some of the people were wearing conical-shaped hats, after the Chinese fashion; others
had on garments of plaited straw, with a hole in the middle to allow the head to pass through,
reminding one of the "Poncho" of the South American; but they held in contempt such trumpery
as looking-glasses, necklaces, or bells, asking rather for axes and steel weapons, evidences
of frequent intercourse with Europeans.

The islands of Tamatan, Fanendik, and Ollap, called "The Martyrs" on old maps, were next surveyed;
afterwards an ineffectual search was made for the islands of Namoureck and Ifelouk about the
position assigned to them by Arrowsmith and Malaspina; and then, by way of continuing the exploration
of the north side of New Guinea, the Coquille put in at the port of Doreï, on the south-east
coast of the island, where a stay was made until the 9th August.

Whether estimated by the addition made to natural history, or to geography, or to astronomy,
or to science in general, no more profitable a sojourn could have been made than this. The
indigenous inhabitants of New Guinea belong to the purest race of Papuans. Their dwellings
are huts built upon piles, the entrance to them being made by means of a piece of wood with
notches cut in it to serve for steps; this is drawn up into the interior every night. The natives
dwelling on the coast are always at war with those in the interior, the Harfous or Arfakis negroes.

Guided by a young Papuan, D'Urville succeeded in making his way to the place where these last-mentioned
dwelt. He found them gentle, hospitable, courteous creatures, not in the least like the portrait
drawn of them by their enemies.

After the stay at New Guinea, the Coquille again sailed through the Moluccas, put in for a
short time at Sourabaya, upon the coast of Java, and on the 30th October reached the islands
of Bourbon and Mauritius. At length, having on the way stopped at St. Helena, where the officers
paid a visit to the tomb of Napoleon, and at Ascension, where an English colony had been established
since 1815, the corvette entered Marseilles on the 24th April, 1825, concluding a voyage that
had occupied thirty-one months and three days, over 24,894 nautical miles, without the loss
of a single life, or any cases of sickness, and without any damage being sustained by the ship.
A success in every way so distinguished covered with glory the young commander of the expedition
and all its officers, who had manifested such untiring energy in the prosecution of scientific
inquiries, yielding a rich harvest of valuable results.

Fifty-two charts and plans carefully drawn up; collections of natural specimens of all kinds,
both numerous and curious; copious vocabularies, by the help of which it may be possible to
throw new light on the migrations of the Oceanic peoples; interesting intelligence regarding
the productions of the places visited; the condition of commerce and industrial pursuits; observations
relating to the shape of the globe; magnetical, meteorological, and botanical researches; such
formed the bulk of the valuable freight of knowledge brought home by the Coquille. The scientific
world waited eagerly for the time when this store of information should be thrown open to the
public.

The expedition, the command of which was entrusted to Baron de Bougainville, was, strictly
speaking, neither a scientific voyage nor a campaign of discovery. Its chief purpose was to
unfurl the French flag in the extreme East, and to impress upon the governments of that region
the intention of France to protect her nationalities and her interests, everywhere and at all
times. The chief instructions given to the commander were that he was to convey to the sovereign
of Cochin-China a letter from the king, together with some presents, to be placed on board
the frigate Thetis.

M. de Bougainville was also, whenever possible, without such delays as would prejudice the
main object of the expedition, to take hydrographic surveys, and to collect information upon
the commerce, productions, and means of exchange, of the countries visited.

Two vessels were placed under the orders of M. de Bougainville. One, the Thetis, was an entirely
new frigate, carrying forty-four cannons and three hundred sailors, no French frigate of this
strength, except the Boudeuse, having ever before accomplished the voyage round the world;
the other, the sloop Espérance, had twenty carronades upon the deck, and carried a hundred
and twenty seamen.

The first of these vessels was under the direct orders of Baron de Bougainville, and his staff
consisted of picked officers, amongst whom we may mention Longueville, Lapierre, and Baudin,
afterwards captain, vice-admiral, and rear-admiral. The Espérance was commanded by Frigate-Captain
De Nourquer du Camper, who, as second in command of the frigate Cleopatra, had already explored
a great part of the course of the new expedition. It numbered among its officers, Turpin, afterwards
vice-admiral, deputy, and aide-de-camp of Louis Philippe; Eugène Penaud, afterwards general
officer, and Médéric Malavois, the future governor of Senegal.

Not one notable scientific man, such as those who had been billeted in such numbers on the
Naturalist and other circumnavigating vessels, had embarked upon those of Baron de Bougainville,
to whom it was a constant matter of regret, a regret intensified by the fact that the medical
officers, with so many under their care, could not be long absent from the vessels when in
port. M. de Bougainville's journal of the voyage opens with this judicious remark:--

"It was not many years ago a dangerous enterprise to make a voyage round the world, and scarce
half a century has elapsed since the time when an expedition of this kind would have sufficed
to reflect glory upon the man who directed it. This was 'the good old time,' the golden age
of the circumnavigator, and the dangers and privations against which he had to struggle were
repaid a hundredfold, when, rich in valuable discoveries, he hailed on his return the shores
of his native land. But this is all over now; the prestige has gone, and we make our tour of
the globe nowadays as we should then have made that of France."

What would Baron Yves-Hyacinth Potentien de Bougainville, the son of the vice-admiral, senator,
and member of the Institut, say to-day to our admirable steamships of perfect form, and charts
of such minute exactitude that distant voyages appear a mere joke.

On the 2nd March, 1824, the Thetis quitted the roads at Brest to take up at Bourbon her companion,
the Espérance, which, having started some time before, had set sail for Rio de Janeiro. A short
stay at Teneriffe, where the Thetis was only able to purchase some poor wine and a very small
quantity of the provisions needed; a view of the Cape Verd Islands and the Cape of Good Hope
in the distance, and a hunt for the fabulous island of Saxemberg, and some rocks no less fictitious,
were the only incidents of the voyage to Bourbon, where the Espérance had already arrived.

Bourbon was at this time so familiar a point with the navigators that there was little to be
said about it, when its two open roads of St. Denis and St. Paul had been mentioned. St. Denis,
the capital, situated on the north of Bourbon, and at the extremity of a sloping table-land,
was, properly speaking, merely a large town, without enclosure or walls, and each house in
it was surrounded by a garden. There were no public buildings or places of interest worth mentioning
except the governor's palace, situated in such a position as to command a view of the whole
road; the botanic garden and the "Jardin de Naturalisation," which dates from 1817. The former,
which is in the centre of the town, contains some beautiful walks, unfortunately but little
frequented, and it is admirably kept. The eucalyptus, the giant of the Australian forests,
the Phormium tenax, the New Zealand hemp-plant, the casuarina (the pine of Madagascar), the
baobab, with its trunk of prodigious size, the carambolas, the sapota, the vanilla, combined
to beautify this garden, which was refreshed by streams of sparkling water. The second, upon
the brow of a hill, formed of terraces rising one above the other, to which several brooklets
give life and fertility, was specially devoted to the acclimatisation of European trees and
plants. The apple, peach, apricot, cherry, and pear-trees, which have thriven well, have already
supplied the colony with valuable shoots. The vine was also grown in this garden, together
with the tea-plant, and several rarer species, amongst which Bougainville noted with delight
the "Laurea argentea," with its bright leaves.

On the 9th June the two vessels left the roads of St. Denis. After having doubled the shoals
of La Fortune and Saya de Malha, and passed off the Seychelles, whilst among the atolls to
the south of the Maldive Islands, which are level with the surface of the water and covered
with bushy trees ending in a cluster of cocoas, they sighted the island of Ceylon and the Coromandel
coast, and cast anchor before Pondicherry.

This part of India is far from answering to the "enchantress" idea which the dithyrambic descriptions
of writers who have celebrated its marvels have led Europeans to form. The number of public
buildings and monuments at Pondicherry will scarcely bear counting, and when one has visited
the more curious of the pagodas, and the "boilers," whose only recommendation is their utility,
there is nothing very interesting, except the novelty of the scenes met with at every turn.
The town is divided into two well-defined quarters. The one called the "white town," dull and
deserted in spite of its coquettish-looking buildings, and the far more interesting "black
town," with its bazaars, its jugglers, its massive pagodas, and the attractive dances of the
bayadères.

"The Indian population upon the coast of Coromandel," says the narrative, "is divided into
two classes,--the 'right-hand' and the 'left.' This division originated under the government
of a nabob against whom the people revolted; those who remained faithful to the prince being
distinguished by the designation of 'right-hand,' and the rest by that of 'left-hand.' These
two great tribes, which divide between them almost equally the entire population, are in a
chronic state of hostility against the holders of the ranks and prerogatives obtained by the
friends of the prince. The latter, however, retain the offices in the gift of the government,
whilst the others are engaged in commerce. To maintain peace amongst them it was necessary
to allow them to retain their ancient processions and ceremonies.... The 'right-hand' and 'left-hand'
are subdivided into eighteen castes or guilds, full of pretensions and prejudices, not diminished
even by the constant intercourse with Europeans which has now for centuries been maintained.
Hence have arisen feelings of rivalry and contempt, which would be the source of sanguinary
wars, were it not that the Hindus have a horror of bloodshed, and that their temperament renders
them averse to conflict. These two facts, i.e. the gentleness of the native disposition and
the constant presence of an element of discord amongst the various tribes, must ever be borne
in mind if we would understand the political phenomenon of more than fifty millions of men
submitting to the yoke of some five and twenty or thirty thousand foreigners."

The Thetis and the Espérance quitted the roadstead of Pondicherry on the 30th July, crossed
the Sea of Bengal, sighted the islands of Nicobar and Pulo-Penang, with its free port capable
of holding 300 ships at a time. They then entered the Straits of Malacca, and remained in the
Dutch port of that name from the 24th to the 26th July, to repair damages sustained by the
Espérance, so that she might hold out as far as Manilla. The intercourse of the explorers with
the Resident and the inhabitants generally were all the more pleasant that it was confirmed
by banquets given on land and on board the Thetis in honour of the kings of France and the
Netherlands. The Dutch were expecting soon to cede this station to the English, and this cession
took place shortly afterwards. It must be added, with regard to Malacca, that in point of fertility
of soil, pleasantness of situation and facilities for obtaining all really necessary supplies,
it was superior to its rivals.

Bougainville set out again on August 26th, and was tossed about by head-winds, and troubled
alike by calms and storms during the remainder of his passage through the straits. As these
latitudes were more frequented than any others by Malay pirates, the commandant placed sentries
on the watch and took all precautions against surprise, although his force was strong enough
to be above fearing any enemy. It was no uncommon thing to see fly-boats manned by a hundred
seamen, and more than one merchant-ship had recently fallen a prey to these unmolested and
incorrigible corsairs. The squadron, however, saw nothing to awake any suspicions, and continued
its course to Singapore.

The population of this town is a curious mixture of races, and our travellers met with Europeans
engaged in the chief branches of commerce; Armenian and Arabian merchants, and Chinese; some
planters, others following the various trades demanded by the requirements of the population.
The Malays, who seemed out of place in an advancing civilization, either led a life of servitude,
or slept away their time in indolence and misery whilst the Hindus, expelled from their country
for crime, practised the indescribable trades which in all great cities alone save the scum
from dying of starvation. It was only in 1819 that the English procured from the Malayan sultan
of Johore the right to settle in the town of Singapore; and the little village in which they
established themselves then numbered but 150 inhabitants, although, thanks to Sir Stamford
Raffles, a town soon rose on the site of the unpretending cabins of the natives. By a wise
stroke of policy all customs-duties were abolished; and the natural advantages of the new city,
with its extensive and secure port, were supplemented and perfected by the hand of man.

The garrison numbered only 300 sepoys and thirty gunners; there were as yet no fortifications,
and the artillery equipment consisted merely of one battery of twenty cannons, and as many
bronze field-pieces. Indeed, Singapore was simply one large warehouse, to which Madras sent
cotton cloth; Calcutta, opium; Sumatra, pepper; Java, arrack and spices; Manilla, sugar and
arrack; all forthwith despatched to Europe, China, Siam, &c. Of public buildings there appeared
to be none. There were no stores, no careening-wharves, no building-yards, no barracks, and
the visitors noticed but one small church for native converts.

The squadron resumed its voyage on the 2nd September, and reached the harbour of Cavité without
any mishap. Meanwhile, M. du Camper, commander of the Espérance who had, during a residence
of some years, become acquainted with the principal inhabitants, was ordered to go to Manilla,
that he might inform the Governor-General of the Philippines of the arrival of the frigates,
the reasons of their visit, &c., and at the same time gauge his feelings towards them, and
form some idea of the reception the French might expect. The recent intervention of France
in the affairs of Spain placed them indeed in a very delicate position with the then governor,
Don Juan Antonio Martinez, who had been nominated to his post by the very Cortés which had
just been overthrown by their government. The fears of the commandant, however, were not confirmed,
for he met with the warmest kindness and most cordial co-operation from the Spanish authorities.

Cavité Bay, where the vessels cast anchor, was constantly encumbered with mud, but it was the
chief port in the Philippine Islands, and there the Spaniards owned a very well supplied arsenal
in which worked Indians from the surrounding districts, who though skilful and intelligent
were excessively lazy. Whilst the Thetis was being sheathed, and the extensive repairs necessary
to the Espérance were being carried out, the clerks and officers were at Manilla, seeing about
the supply of provisions and cordage. The latter, which was made of "abaca," the fibre of a
banana, vulgarly called "Manilla hemp," although recommended on account of its great elasticity,
was not of much use on board ship. The delay at Manilla was rendered very disagreeable by earthquakes
and typhoons, which are always of constant occurrence there. On October 24th there was an earthquake
of such violence that the governor, troops, and a portion of the people were compelled hastily
to leave the town, and the loss was estimated at 120,000l. Many houses were thrown down, eight
people were buried in the ruins, and many others injured. Scarcely had the inhabitants begun
to breathe freely again, when a frightful typhoon came to complete the panic. It lasted only
part of the night of the 31st October, and the next day, when the sun rose, it might have been
looked upon as a mere nightmare had not the melancholy sight of fields laid waste, and of the
harbour with six ships lying on their sides, and all the others at anchor, almost entirely
disabled, testified to the reality of the disaster. All around the town the country was devastated,
the crops were ruined, the trees--even the largest of them--violently shaken, the village destroyed.
It was a heart-rending spectacle! The Espérance had its main-mast and mizen-mast lifted several
feet above deck, and its barricadings were carried off; the Thetis, more fortunate than its
companion, escaped almost uninjured in the dreadful tempest.

The laziness of the workpeople, and the great number of holidays in which they indulge, early
decided Bougainville to part for a time from his convoy, and on December 12th he set sail for
Cochin-China. Before following the French to the little-frequented shores of that country,
however, we must survey with them Manilla and its environs. The Bay of Manilla is one of the
most extensive and beautiful in the world; numerous fleets might find anchorage in it; and
its two channels were not yet closed to foreign vessels, and in 1798 two English frigates had
been allowed to pass through them and carry off numerous vessels under the very guns of the
town. The horizon is shut in by a barrier of mountains, ending on the south of the Taal, a
volcano now almost extinct, but the eruptions of which have often caused frightful calamities.
In the plains, framed in rice plantations, several hamlets and solitary houses give animation
to the scene. Opposite to the mouth of the bay rises the town, containing 60,000 inhabitants,
with its lighthouse and far-extending suburbs. It is watered by the Passig, a river issuing
from Bay Lake, and its exceptionally good situation secures to it advantages which more than
one capital might envy. The garrison, without including the militia, consisted at that time
of 2200 soldiers; and, in addition to the military navy, always represented by some vessel
at anchor, a marine service had been organized for the exclusive use of the colony, to which
the name of "sutil" had been given, either on account of the small size, or the fleetness of
the vessels employed. This service, all appointments in which are in the gift of the governor-general,
is composed of schooners and gun-sloops, intended to protect the coasts and the trading-vessels
against the pirates of Sulu. But it cannot be said that the organization, imposing as it is,
has achieved any great results. Of this Bougainville gives the following curious illustration:--In
1828 the Suluans seized 3000 of the inhabitants upon the coast of Luzon, and an expedition
sent against them cost 140,000 piastres, and resulted in the killing of six men!

Great uneasiness prevailed in the Philippines at the time of the visit of the Thetis and the
Espérance, and a political reaction which had steeped the metropolis in blood had thrown a
gloom over every one. On December 20th, 1820, a massacre of the whites by the Indians; in 1824,
the mutiny of a regiment, and the assassination of an ex-governor, Senor de Folgueras, had
been the first horrors which had endangered the supremacy of the Spanish.

The Creoles, who, with the Tagalas, were alike the richest and most industrious classes of
the true native population, at this time gave just cause for uneasiness to the government,
because they were known to desire the expulsion of all who were not natives of the Philippines;
and when it is borne in mind that they commanded the native regiments, and held the greater
part of the public offices, it is easy to see how great must have been their influence. Well
might people ask whether they were not on the eve of one of those revolutions which lost to
Spain her fairest colonies.

Until the Thetis reached Macao, she was much harassed by squalls, gales, heavy showers, and
an intensity of cold, felt all the more keenly by the navigators after their experience for
several months of a temperature of 75-3/4 degrees Fahrenheit. Scarcely was anchor cast in the
Canton river before a great number of native vessels came to examine the frigate, offering
for sale vegetables, fish, oranges, and a multitude of trifles, once so rare, now so common,
but always costly.

"The town of Macao," says the narrative, "shut in between bare hills, can be seen from afar;
the whiteness of its buildings rendering it very conspicuous. It partly faces the coast, and
the houses, which are elegantly built, line the beach, following the natural contour of the
shore. The parade is also the finest part of the town, and is much frequented by foreigners;
behind it, the ground rises abruptly, and the façades of the buildings, such as convents, noticeable
for their size and peculiar architecture, rise, so to speak, from the second stage; the whole
being crowned by the embattled walls of the forts, over which floated the white flag of Portugal.

"At the northern and southern extremities of the town, facing the sea, are batteries built
in three stages; and near the first, but a little further inland, rises a church with a very
effective portico and fine external decorations. Numerous sampangs, junks, and fishing-boats
anchored close in shore, give animation to the scene, the setting of which would be much brightened
if the heights overlooking the town were not so totally wanting in verdure."

Situated as it is in the high road, between China and the rest of the world, Macao, once one
of the chief relics of Portuguese colonial prosperity, long enjoyed exceptional privileges,
all of which were, however, gone by 1825, when its one industry was a contraband trade in opium.

The Thetis only touched at Macao to leave some missionaries, and to hoist the French flag,
and Bougainville set sail again on January 8th.

Nothing worthy of notice occurred on the voyage from Macao to Touron Bay. Arrived there, Bougainville
learned that the French agent, M. Chaigneu, had left Hué for Saigon, with the intention of
there chartering a barque for Singapore, and in the absence of the only person who could further
his schemes he did not know with whom to open relations. Fearing failure as an inevitable result
of this contretemps he at once despatched a letter to Hué, explaining the object of his mission,
and expressing a wish to go with some of his officers to Saigon. The time which necessarily
elapsed before an answer was received was turned to account by the French, who minutely surveyed
the bay and its surroundings, together with the famous marble rocks, the objects of the curious
interest of all travellers. Touron Bay has been described by various authors, notably by Horsburgh,
as one of the most beautiful and vast in the universe; but such is not the opinion of Bougainville,
who thinks these statements are to be taken with a great deal of reservation. The village of
Touron is situated upon the sea-coast, at the entrance of the channel of Faifoh, from the right
bank of which rises a fort with glacis, bastions, and a dry moat, built by French engineers.

The French being looked upon as old allies were always received with kindness and without suspicion.
It had not, apparently, been so with the English, who had not been permitted to land, whilst
the sailors on board the Thetis were at once allowed to fish and hunt, and to go and come as
they chose, every facility for obtaining fresh provisions being also accorded to them. Thanks
to this latitude, the officers were able to scour the country and make interesting observations.
One of them, M. de la Touanne, gives the following description of the natives:--"They are rather
under than over middle height, and in this respect they closely resemble the Chinese of Macao.
Their skin is of a yellowish-brown, and their heads are flat and round; their faces are without
expression, their eyes are as melancholy, but their eyebrows are not so strongly marked as
those of the Chinese. They have flat noses and large mouths, and their lips bulge out in a
way rendered the more disagreeable as they are always black and dirty from the habit indulged
in, by men and women alike, of chewing areca nut mixed with betel and lime. The women, who
are almost as tall as the men, have not a more pleasant appearance; and the repulsive filthiness,
common to both sexes, is enough without anything else to deprive them of all attractiveness."

What strikes one most is the wretchedness of the inhabitants as compared with the fertility
of the soil, and this shocking contrast betrays alike the selfishness and carelessness of the
government and the insatiable greed of the mandarins. The plains produce maize, yams, manioc,
tobacco, and rice, the flourishing appearance of which testifies to the care bestowed upon
them; the sea yields large quantities of delicious fish, and the forests give shelter to numerous
birds, as well as tigers, rhinoceroses, buffaloes, and elephants, and troops of monkeys are
to be met with everywhere, some of them four feet high, with bodies of a pearl-grey colour,
black thighs, and red legs. They wear red collars and white girdles, which make them look just
as if they were clothed. Their muscular strength is extraordinary, and they clear enormous
distances in leaping from branch to branch. Nothing can be odder than to see some dozen of
these creatures upon one tree indulging in the most fantastic grimaces and contortions. "One
day," says Bougainville, "when I was at the edge of the forest, I wounded a monkey who had
ventured forth for a stroll in the sunshine. He hid his face in his hands and sent forth such
piteous groans that more than thirty of his tribe were about him in a moment. I lost no time
in reloading my gun not knowing what I might have to expect, for some monkeys are not afraid
of attacking men; but the troop only took up their wounded comrade, and once more plunged into
the wood."

Another excursion was made to the marble rocks of the Faifoh River, where are several curious
caves, one containing an enormous pillar suspended from the roof and ending abruptly some distance
from the ground; stalactites were seen, but the sound of a water-fall was heard from the further
end. The French also visited the ruins of an ancient building near a grotto, containing an
idol, and with a passage opening out of one corner. This passage Bougainville followed. It
led him into an "immense rotunda lighted from the top, and ending in an arched vault, at least
sixty feet high. Imagine the effect of a series of marble pillars of various colours, some
from their greenish colour, the result of old age and damp, looking as if cast in bronze, whilst
from the roof hung down creepers, now in festoons, now in bunches, looking for all the world
like candelabra without the lights. Above our heads were groups of stalactites resembling great
organ-pipes, altars, mutilated statues, hideous monsters carved in stone, and even a complete
pagoda, which, however, occupied but a very small space in the vast enclosure. Fancy such a
scene in an appropriate setting, the whole lit up with a dim and wavering light, and you can
perhaps form some idea how it struck me when it first burst upon me."

On the 20th of January, 1825, the Espérance at last rejoined the frigate; and, two days later,
two envoys arrived from the court at Hué, with orders to ask Bougainville for the letter of
which he was the bearer. But, as the latter had received orders to deliver it to the Emperor
in person, this request involved a long series of puerile negotiations. The formalities by
which the Cochin-Chinese envoys were, so to speak, hemmed in, reminded Bougainville of the
anecdote of the envoy and the governor of Java, who, rivalling each other in their gravity
and diplomatic prudence, remained together for twenty-four hours without exchanging a word.
The commander was not the man to endure such trial of patience as this, but he could not obtain
the necessary authorization of his explorations, and the negotiations ended in an exchange
of presents, securing nothing in fact but an assurance from the Emperor that he would receive
with pleasure a visit of the French vessels to his ports, if their captain and officers would
conform to the laws of the Empire. Since 1817 the French had been pretty well the only people
who had done any satisfactory business with the people of Cochin-China, a state of things resulting
from the presence of French residents at the court of Hué, on whom alone of course depended
the maintenance of the exceptionally cordial relations so long established between them and
the government to which they were accredited.

The two ships left Touron Bay on the 17th February for the Anambas Archipelago, which had not
as yet been explored; and, on the 3rd of March, they came in sight of it, and found it to bear
no resemblance whatever to the islands of the same name, marked upon the English map of the
China Sea. Bougainville was agreeably surprised to see a large number of islands and islets,
the bays, &c., of which were sure to afford excellent anchorage during the monsoons. The explorers
penetrated to the very heart of the archipelago, and made a hydrographic survey of it. Whilst
the small boats were engaged upon this task, two prettily built canoes approached, from one
of which a man of about fifty came on board the Thetis, whose breast was seamed with scars,
and from whose right-hand two fingers were missing. The sight of the rows of guns and ammunition,
however, so terrified him that he beat a hasty retreat to his canoe, though he had already
got as far as the orlop-deck. Next day two more canoes approached, manned by fierce-looking
Malays, bringing bananas, cocoa-nuts, and pineapples, which they bartered for biscuits, a handkerchief,
and two small axes. Several other interviews took place with islanders, armed with the kriss,
and short two-edged iron pikes, who were very evidently pirates by profession.

Although the French explored but a part of the Anamba group, the information they collected
was extremely interesting on account of its novelty. The first requisite of a large population
is plenty of fresh water, and there is apparently very little of it in the Anambas. Moreover,
the cultivable soil is not very deep, and the mountains are separated by narrow ravines, not
by plains, so that agriculture is all but out of the question. Even the native trees, with
the exception of the cocoa-palm, are very stunted. The population was estimated by a native
at not more than 2000, but Bougainville thought even that too high a figure. The fortunate
position of the Anambas--they are passed by all vessels trading with China, whichever route
may be taken--long since brought them to the notice of navigators; and we must attribute to
their lack of resources the neglect to which they have been abandoned. The small amount of
cordiality and confidence met with by Bougainville from the inhabitants, the high price of
provisions, and the destructive nature of the monsoons in the Sunda waters, determined him
to cut short his survey and to make with all speed for Java, where his instructions compelled
him to touch. The 8th of March was fixed for the departure of the two vessels, which sighted
Victory, Barren, Saddle, and Camel Islands, passed through the Gasper Straits--the passage
of which did not occupy more than two hours, although it often takes several days with an unfavourable
wind--and cast anchor at Surabaya, where the explorers were met with the news of the death
of Louis XVIII. and the accession of Charles X. As the cholera, which had claimed 300,000 victims
in Java in 1822, was still raging, Bougainville took the precaution of keeping his crew on
board under shelter from the sun, and expressly forbade any intercourse with vessels laden
with fruit, the use of which is so dangerous to Europeans, especially during the rainy season
then setting in. In spite of these wise orders, however, dysentery attacked the crew of the
Thetis, and too many fell victims to it.

The town of Surabaya is situated one league from the mouth of the river, and it can only be
reached by towing up the stream. Its approaches are lively, and everything bears witness to
the presence of an active commercial population. An expedition to the island of Celebes having
exhausted the resources of the government and the magazines being empty, Bougainville had to
deal direct with the Chinese merchants, who are the most bare-faced robbers on the face of
the globe, and now resorted to all manner of cunning and knavery to get the better of their
visitors. The stay at Surabaya, therefore, left a very disagreeable impression on all. It was
quite different, however, with regard to the reception met with from the chief personages of
the colony, for there was every reason to be satisfied with the conduct of all connected with
the government.

To go to Surabaya without paying a visit to the Sultan of Madura, whose reputation for hospitality
had crossed the seas, would have been as impossible as it is to visit Paris without going to
see Versailles and Trianon. After a comfortable lunch on shore, therefore, the staff of the
two vessels set out in open carriages and four; but the roads were so bad and the horses so
worn out that they would many a time have stuck in the mud if men stationed at the dangerous
places had not energetically shoved at the wheels. At last they arrived at Bankalan, and the
carriages drew up in the third court of the palace at the foot of a staircase, at the top of
which the hereditary prince and the prime minister awaited the arrival of the travellers. Prince
Adden Engrate belonged to the most illustrious family of the Indian Archipelago. He wore the
undress uniform of a Java chief, consisting of a long flowered petticoat of Indian make, scarcely
allowing the Chinese slippers to be seen, a white vest with gold buttons, and a small skirted
waistcoat of brown cloth, with diamond buttons. A handkerchief was tied about his head, on
which he wore a visor-cap, his ease and dignity of bearing alone saving him from looking like
the grotesque figure of a carnival amazon. The palace or "kraton" consisted of a series of
buildings with galleries, kept delightfully cool by awnings and curtains, whilst lustres, tasty
European furniture, pretty hangings, glass and crystal ornaments decorated the vast halls and
rooms. A suite of private apartments, with no opening to the court, but with a view of the
gardens, is reserved for the "Ratu" (sovereign) and the harem.

The reception was cordial, and the repast, served in European style, was delicious. "The conversation,"
says Bougainville, "was conducted in English, and many toasts were proposed, the prince drinking
our healths in tea poured from a bottle, and to which he helped himself as if it had been Madeira.
Being head of the church as well as of the state, he strictly obeys the precepts of the Koran,
never drinking wine, and spending a great part of his time at the mosque; but he is not the
less sociable, and his talk bears no trace of the austerity to be expected in that of one who
leads so regular a life. This life is not, however, all spent in prayer, and the scenes witnessed
by us would give a very false impression if we did not know that great latitude is allowed
on this point to the followers of the prophet."

In the afternoon the Frenchmen visited several coach-houses, containing very handsome carriages,
some of which, built on the island, were so well-made that it was absolutely impossible to
distinguish them from those which had been imported. Some archery was then witnessed, and joined
in, after which, on the return to the palace, the visitors were welcomed by the sound of melancholy
music, speedily interrupted, however, by the barking and fantastical dancing of the prince's
fool, who showed wonderful agility and suppleness. To this dance, or rather to these postures
of a bayadère, succeeded the excitement of vingt-et-un, followed by well-earned repose. Next
day there were new entertainments and new exercises; beginning with wrestling-matches for grown
men and for youths, and proceeding with quail-fights, and feats performed by a camel and an
elephant. After lunch Bougainville and his party had a drive and some archery, and witnessed
sack-races, basket-balancing, &c. In this way, they were told, the sultan passed all his time.
Most striking is the respect and submission shown by all to this sovereign. No one ever stands
upright before him, but all prostrate themselves before addressing him. All his subjects do
but "wait at his feet," and even his own little child of four years clasps his tiny hands when
he speaks to his father.

While at Surabaya, Bougainville took the opportunity of visiting the volcano of Brumo, in the
Tengger Mountains; and this excursion, in which he explored the island for a hundred miles,
from east to west, was one of the most interesting undertaken by him. Surabaya contains some
curious buildings and monuments, most of them the work of a former governor, General Daendels;
such are the "Builder's Workshop," the "Hôtel de la Monnaie" (the only establishment of the
kind in Java), and the hospital, which is built on a well-chosen site, and contains 400 beds.
The island of Madura, opposite to Surabaya, is at least 100 miles in length, by fifteen or
twenty in breadth, and does not yield produce sufficient to maintain the population, sparse
as it is. The sovereignty of this island is divided between the sultans of Bankalan and Sumanap,
who furnish annually six hundred recruits to the Dutch, without counting extraordinary levies.

On the 20th April, symptoms of dysentery showed themselves amongst the crews. Two days later
therefore the vessel set sail, and it took seven good days to get beyond the straits of Madura.
They returned along the north coast of Lombok, and passed through the Allas Straits, between
Lombok and Sumbawa. The first of these islands, from the foot of the mountains to the sea,
presents the appearance of a green carpet, adorned with groups of trees of elegant appearance,
and upon its coast there is no lack of good anchorage, whilst fresh water and wood are plentiful.
On the other side, however, there are numerous peaks of barren aspect, rising from a lofty
table-land, the approach to which is barred by a series of rugged and inaccessible islands,
known as Lombok, the coral-beds and treacherous currents about which must be carefully avoided.
Two stoppages at the villages of Baly and Peejow, with a view to taking in fresh provisions,
enabled the officers to make a hydrographical chart of this part of the coast of Lombok. Upon
leaving the strait, Bougainville made an unsuccessful search for Cloates Island. That he did
not find it is not very wonderful, as during the last eight years many ships have passed over
the spot assigned to it upon the maps. The "Triads," on the other hand, i.e. the rocks seen
in 1777 by the Freudensberg Castle, are, in Captain King's opinion, the Montepello Islands,
which correspond perfectly with the description of the Danes.

Bougainville had instructions to survey the neighbourhood of the Swan River, where the French
Government hoped to find a place suitable for the reception of the wretches then huddled together
in their convict-prisons; but the flag of England had just been unfurled on the shores of Nuyts
and Leuwin, in King George's Sound, Géographe Bay, the little Leschenault inlet, and on the
Swan River, so that there was no longer any reason for a new exploration. Everything in fact
had combined to prevent it; the delays to which the expedition had been subjected had indeed
been so serious that instead of arriving in these latitudes in April, they did not reach them
until the middle of May, there the very heart of winter. Moreover, the coast offers no shelter,
for so soon as the wind begins to blow, the waves swell tremendously, and the memory of the
trials which the Géographe had undergone at the same season of the year was still fresh in
the minds of the French. The Thetis and the Espérance were pursued by the bad weather as far
as Hobart Town, the chief English station upon the coast of Tasmania, where the commander was
very anxious to put in. He was, however, driven back by storms to Port Jackson, which is marked
by a very handsome lighthouse, a granite tower seventy-six feet high, with a lantern lit by
gas, visible at a distance of nine leagues.

Sir Thomas Brisbane, the governor, gave a cordial reception to the expedition, and at once
took the necessary steps to furnish it with provisions. This was done by contract at low prices,
and the greatest good faith was shown in carrying out all bargains. The sloop had to be run
ashore to have its sheathing repaired, but this, with some work of less importance necessary
to the Thetis, did not take long. The delay was also turned to account by the whole staff,
who were greatly interested in the marvellous progress of this penal colony. While Bougainville
was eagerly reading all the works which had as yet appeared upon New South Wales, the officers
wandered about the town, and were struck dumb with amazement at the numberless public buildings
erected by Governor Macquarie, such as the barracks, hospital, market, orphanages, almshouses
for the aged and infirm, the prison, the fort, the churches, government-house, the fountains,
the town gates, and last but not least, the government-stables, which are always at first sight
taken for the palace itself. There was, however, a dark side to the picture. The main thoroughfares,
though well-planned, were neither paved nor lighted, and were so unsafe at night, that several
people had been seized and robbed in the very middle of George Street, the best quarter of
Sydney. If the streets in the town were unsafe, those in the suburbs were still more so. Vagrant
convicts overran the country in the form of bands of "bushrangers," who had become so formidable
that the government had recently organized a company of fifty dragoons for the express purpose
of hunting them down. All this did not, however, hinder the officers from making many interesting
excursions, such as those to Paramatta, on the banks of the Nepean, a river very deeply embanked,
where they visited the Regent Ville district; and to the "plains of Emu," a government agricultural-station,
and a sort of model farm. They went to the theatre, where a grand performance was given in
their honour. The delight sailors take in riding is proverbial, and it was on horseback that
the French crossed the Emu plains. The noble animals, imported from England, had not degenerated
in New South Wales; they were still full of spirit as one of the young officers found to his
cost, when, as he was saying in English to Sir John Cox, acting as cicerone to the party, "I
do love this riding exercise," he was suddenly thrown over his horse's head and deposited on
the grass before he knew where he was. The laugh against him was all the more hearty as the
skilful horseman was not injured.

Beyond Sir John Cox's plantations extends the unbroken "open forest," as the English call it,
which can be crossed on horseback, and consists chiefly of the eucalyptus, acacias of various
kinds, and the dark-leaved casuarinas. The next day, an excursion was made up the river Nepean,
a tributary of the Hawkesbury, on which trip many valuable facts of natural history were obtained,
Bougainville enriching his collection with canaries, waterfowl, and a very pretty species of
kingfisher and cockatoos. In the neighbouring woods was heard the unpleasant cry of the lyre-pheasant
and of two other birds, which feebly imitate the tinkling of a hand-bell and the jarring noise
of the saw. These are not, however, the only feathered fowl remarkable for the peculiarity
of their notes; we must also mention the "whistling-bird," the "knife-grinder," the "mocking-bird,"
the "coachman," which mimics the crack of the whip, and the "laughing jackass," with its continual
bursts of laughter, which have a strange effect upon the nerves. Sir John Cox presented the
commander with two specimens of the water-mole, also called the ornithorhynchus, a curious
amphibious creature, the habits of which are still little known to European naturalists, many
museums not possessing a single specimen.

Another excursion was made in the Blue Mountains, where the famous "King's Table-land" was
visited, from which a magnificent view was obtained. The explorers gained with great difficulty
the top of an eminence, and an abyss of 1600 feet at once opened beneath them; a vast green
carpet stretching away to a distance of some twenty miles, whilst on the right and left were
the distorted sides of the mountain, which had been rudely rent asunder by some earthquake,
the irregularities corresponding exactly with each other. Close at hand foams a roaring, rushing
torrent, flinging itself in a series of cascades into the valley beneath, the whole passing
under the name of "Apsley's Waterfall." This trip was succeeded by a kangaroo hunt in the cow-pastures
with Mr. Macarthur, one of the chief promoters of the prosperity of New South Wales. Bougainville
also turned his stay at Sydney to account by laying the foundation-stone of a monument to the
memory of La Pérouse. This cenotaph was erected in Botany Bay, upon the spot where the navigator
had pitched his camp.

On September 21st the Thetis and the Espérance at last set sail; passing off Pitcairn Island,
Easter Island, and Juan Fernandez, now a convict settlement for criminals from Chili, after
having been occupied for a half-century by Spanish vine-growers.

On the 23rd November the Thetis, which had been separated from the Espérance during a heavy
storm, anchored off Valparaiso, where it met Admiral de Rosamel's division. Great excitement
prevailed in the roadstead, for an expedition against the island of Chiloë, which still belonged
to Spain, was being organized by the chief director, General Ramon Freire y Serrano, of whom
we have already spoken.

Bougainville, like the Russian navigator Lütke, is of opinion that the position of Valparaiso
does not justify its reputation. The streets are dirty and narrow, and so steep that walking
in them is very fatiguing. The only pleasant part is the suburb of Almendral, which, with its
gardens and orchards, would be still more agreeable but for the sand-storms prevalent throughout
nearly the whole of the year. In 1811, Valparaiso numbered only from four to five thousand
inhabitants; but in 1825 the population had already tripled itself, and the increase showed
no sign of ceasing. When the Thetis touched at Valparaiso, the English frigate, the Blonde,
commanded by Lord Byron, grandson of the explorer of the same name, whose discoveries are narrated
above, was also at anchor there. By a singular coincidence Byron had raised a monument to the
memory of Cook in the island of Hawaii, at the very time when Bougainville, the son of the
circumnavigator, met by Byron in the Straits of Magellan, was laying the foundation-stone of
the monument to the memory of La Pérouse in New South Wales.

Bougainville turned the delay necessary for the revictualling of his division to account by
paying a visit to Santiago, the capital of Chili, thirty-three leagues inland. The environs
of Chili are terribly bare, without houses or any signs of cultivation. Its steeples alone
mark the approach to it, and one may fancy oneself still in the outskirts when the heart of
the city is reached. There is, however, no lack of public buildings, such as the Hôtel de la
Monnaie, the university, the archbishop's palace, the cathedral, the church of the Jesuits,
the palace, and the theatre, the last of which is so badly lighted that it is impossible to
distinguish the faces of the audience. The promenade, known as La Cañada, has now supplanted
that of L'Alameda on the banks of the river Mapocha, once the evening rendezvous. The objects
of interest in the town exhausted, the Frenchmen examined those in the neighbourhood, visiting
the Salto de Agua, a waterfall of 1200 feet in height, the ascent to which is rather arduous,
and the Cerito de Santa-Lucia, from which rises a fortress, the sole defence of the town.

The season was now advancing, and no time was to be lost if the explorers wished to take advantage
of the best season for doubling Cape Horn. On the 8th January, 1826, therefore, the two vessels
once more put to sea, and rounded the Cape without any mishap, though landing at the Falklands
was rendered impossible by fog and contrary winds. Anchor was cast on the 28th March in the
roadstead of Rio Janeiro, and, as it turned out, at a time most favourable for the French to
form an accurate opinion alike on the city and the court.

"The emperor," says Bougainville, "was upon a journey at the time of our arrival, and his return
was the occasion of fêtes and receptions which roused the population to activity, and broke
for a time the monotony of ordinary life in Rio, that dullest and dreariest of towns to the
foreigner. Its environs, however, are charming; nature has in them been lavish of her riches;
and the vast harbour, the Atlantic, rendezvous of the commercial world, presents a most animated
scene. Innumerable ships, either standing in or getting under weigh, small craft cruising about,
a ceaseless roar of cannon from the forts and men-of-war, exchanging signals on the occasion
of some anniversary or the celebration of some festival of the church, whilst visits were constantly
being exchanged between the officers of the various foreign vessels and the diplomatic agents
of foreign powers at the court of Rio."

The division set sail again on the 11th April, and arrived at Brest on the 24th June, 1826,
without having put into port since it left Rio Janeiro. We must remember that if Bougainville
did not make any discoveries on this voyage, he had no formal instructions to do so, his mission
being merely to unfurl the flag of France where it had as yet been rarely seen. None the less
do we owe to this general officer some very interesting, and in some cases new information
on the countries visited by him. Some of the surveys made by his expedition may be of service
to navigators, and it must be owned that the hydrographical researches which alone could be
undertaken in the absence of scientific men were carefully made, and resulted in the obtaining
of numerous and accurate data. We can but sympathize with the commander of the Thetis, in his
expression of regret, in the preface to his journal, that neither the Government nor the Académie
des Sciences had seen fit to turn his expedition to account to obtain new results supplementary
of the rich harvest gleaned by his predecessors.

The expedition next sent out under the command of Captain Dumont d'Urville was merely intended
by the minister to supplement and consolidate the mass of scientific data collected by Captain
Duperrey in his voyage from 1822 to 1824. As second in command to Duperrey, and the originator
and organizer of the new exploring expedition, D'Urville had the very first claim to be appointed
to its command. The portions of Oceania he proposed to visit were New Zealand, the Fiji Islands,
the Loyalty Islands, New Britain, and New Guinea, all of which he considered urgently to demand
the consideration alike of the geographer and the traveller. What he effected in this direction
we shall ascertain by following him step by step. An interest of another character also attaches
to this trip, but it will be well to quote on this point the instructions given to the navigator.

"An American captain," writes the Minister of Marine, "said that he saw in the hands of the
natives of an isle situated between New Caledonia and the Louisiade Archipelago a cross of
St. Louis and some medals, which he imagined to be relics of the wrecked vessel of the celebrated
La Pérouse, whose loss is so deeply and justly regretted. This is, of course, but a feeble
reason for hoping that some of the victims of the disaster still survive; but you, sir, will
give great satisfaction to his Majesty, if you are the means of restoring any one of the poor
shipwrecked mariners to their native land after so many years of misery and exile."

The aims of the expedition were therefore manifold, and by the greatest chance it was able
to achieve them nearly all. D'Urville received his appointment in December, 1825, and was permitted
himself to choose all who were to accompany him. He named as second in command Lieutenant Jacquinot,
and as scientific colloborateurs Messrs. Quoy and Gaimard, who had been on board the Uranie,
and as surgeon Primevère Lesson. The Coquille, the excellent qualities of which were well known
to D'Urville, was the vessel selected; and the commander having named her the Astrolabe in
memory of La Pérouse, embarked in her a crew of twenty-four men. Anchor was weighed on the
25th April, and the mountains of Toulon with the coast of France were soon out of sight.

After touching at Gibraltar, the Astrolabe stopped at Teneriffe to take in fresh provisions
before crossing the Atlantic, and D'Urville took advantage of this delay to ascend the peak,
accompanied by Messrs. Quoy, Gaimard, and several officers, a bad road, very arduous for pedestrians,
leading the first part of the way over fields of scoria, though as Laguna is approached the
scenery improves. This town, of a considerable size, contains but a small, indolent, and miserable
population.

Between Matunza and Orotara the vegetation is magnificent, and the luxuriant foliage of the
vine enhances the beauty of the view. Orotara is a small seaboard town, with a port affording
but little shelter. It is well-built and laid out, and would be comfortable enough if the streets
were not so steep as to make traffic all but impossible. After three-quarters of an hour's
climb through well-cultivated fields, the Frenchmen reached the chestnut-tree region, beyond
which begin the clouds, taking the form of a thick moist fog, very disagreeable to the traveller.
Further on comes the furze region, beyond which the atmosphere again becomes clear, vegetation
disappears, the ground becomes poorer and more barren. Here are met with decomposed lava, scoria,
and pumice-stones in great abundance, whilst below stretches away the boundless sea of clouds.

Thus far hidden by clouds or by the lofty mountains surrounding it, the peak at last stands
forth distinctly, the incline becomes less steep, and those vast plains of intensely melancholy
appearance, called Cañadas by the Spanish, on account of their bareness, are crossed. A halt
is made for lunch at the Pine grotto before climbing the huge blocks of basalt ranged in a
circle about the crater, now filled in with ashes from the peak, and forming its enceinte.
The peak itself is next attached, the ascent of which is broken one-third of the way up by
a sort of esplanade called the Estancia de los Ingleses. Here our travellers passed the night,
not perhaps quite so comfortably as they would have done in their berths, but without suffering
too much from the feeling of suffocation experienced by other explorers. The fleas, however,
were very troublesome, and their unremitting attacks kept the commander awake all night.

At four a.m. the ascent was resumed, and a second esplanade, called the Alta Vista, was soon
reached, beyond which all trace of a path disappears, the rest of the ascent being over rough
lava as far as the Chahorra Cone, with here and there, in the shade, patches of unmelted snow.
The peak itself is very steep, and its ascent is rendered yet more arduous by the pumice-stone
which rolls away beneath the feet.

"At thirty-five minutes past six," says M. Dumont d'Urville, "we arrived at the summit of the
Chahorra, which is evidently a half-extinct crater. Its sides are thin and sloping, it is from
sixty to eighty feet deep, and the whole surface is strewn with fragments of obsidian, pumice-stones,
and lava. Sulphureous vapour, forming a kind of crown of smoke, is emitted from it, whilst
the atmosphere at the bottom is perfectly cool. At the summit of the peak the thermometer marked
11 degrees, but in my opinion it was affected by the presence of the fumerolles, for when at
the bottom of the crater it fell rapidly from 19 degrees in the sun to 9 degrees 5' in the shade."

The descent was accomplished without accident by another route, enabling our travellers to
examine the Cueva de la Nieve, and to visit the forest of Aqua Garcia, watered by a limpid
stream, and in which D'Urville made a rich collection of botanical specimens.

In Major Megliorini's rooms at Santa Cruz the commander was shown, together with a number of
weapons, shells, animals, fish, &c., a complete mummy of a Guanche, said to be that of a woman.
The corpse was sewn up in skins, and seemed to be that of a woman five feet four high, with
regular features and large hands. The sepulchral caves of the Guanches also contained earthenware,
wooden vases, triangular seals of baked clay, and a great number of small discs of the same
material, strung together like chaplets, which may have been used by this extinct race for
the same purposes as the "quipos" of the Peruvians.

On the 21st June the Astrolabe once more set sail and touched at La Praya, and at the Cape
Verd Islands, where D'Urville had hoped to meet Captain King, who would have been able to give
him some valuable hints on the navigation of the coast of New Guinea. King, however, had left
La Praya thirty-six hours previously, and the Astrolabe therefore resumed her voyage the next
day, i.e. on the 30th June.

On the last day of July the rocks of Martin-Vaz and Trinity Island were sighted, and the latter
appearing perfectly barren, a little dried-up grass and a few groups of stunted trees, dotted
about amongst the rocks, being the only signs of vegetation.

D'Urville had been very anxious to make some botanical researches on this desert island, but
the surf was so rough that he was afraid to risk a boat in it.

On the 4th August the Astrolabe sailed over the spot laid down as "Saxembourg" Island, which
ought to be finally erased from French as it has been from English charts; and after a succession
of squalls, which tried her sorely, she arrived off St. Paul and Amsterdam Islands, finally
anchoring on the 7th October in King George's Sound, on the coast of Australia. In spite of
the roughness of the sea, and constant bad weather throughout his voyage of 108 days, D'Urville
had carried on all his usual observations on the height of the waves, which he estimated at
80 and occasionally as much as 100 feet, off Needle Bank; the temperature of the sea at various
depths, &c.

Captain Jacquinot having found a capital supply of fresh water on the right bank of Princess
Royal Harbour, and at a little distance a site suitable for the erection of an observatory,
the tents were soon pitched by the sailors, and several officers made a complete tour of the
bay, whilst others opened relations with the aborigines, one of whom was induced to go on board,
though it was only with the greatest difficulty that he was persuaded to throw away his Banksia,
a cone used to retain heat, and to keep the stomach and the front part of the body warm. He
remained quietly enough on board for two days, however, eating and drinking in front of the
kitchen fire. In the meantime his fellow-countrymen on land were peaceable and well-disposed,
even bringing three of their children into the camp.

During this halt a boat arrived manned by eight Englishmen, who asked to be taken on board
as passengers, and told such a very improbable story of having been deserted by their captain,
that D'Urville suspected them of being escaped convicts; a suspicion which became a conviction,
when he saw the wry faces they made at his proposal to send them back to Port Jackson. The
next day, however, one took a berth as sailor, and two were received as passengers; whilst
the other five decided to remain on land and drag out a miserable existence amongst the natives.

All this time hydrographical and astronomical observations were being made, and the hunters
and naturalists were trying to obtain specimens of new varieties of fauna and flora. The delays
extending to October 24th enabled the explorers to regain their strength, after their trying
voyage, to make the necessary repairs, take in wood and water, draw up a map of the whole neighbourhood,
and to collect numerous botanical and zoological specimens. His observations of various kinds
made D'Urville wonder that the English had not yet founded a colony on King George's Sound,
admirably situated as it is, not only for vessels coming direct from Europe, but for those
trading between the Cape and China, or bound for the Sunda Islands, and delayed by the monsoons.
The coast was explored as far as West Port, preferred by D'Urville to Port Dalrymple, the latter
being a harbour always difficult and often dangerous either to enter or to leave. West Port
moreover, was as yet only known from the reports of Baudin and Flinders, and it was therefore
better worth exploring than a more frequented district. The observations made in King George's
Sound were therefore repeated at West Port, resulting in the following conclusions:--

"It affords," says D'Urville, "an anchorage alike easy to reach and to leave, the bottom is
firm, and wood is abundant and easily procurable. In a word, when a good supply of fresh water
is found, and that will probably be soon, West Port will rise to a position of great importance
in a channel such as Bass's Straits, when the winds often blow strongly from one quarter for
several days together, the currents at the same time rendering navigation difficult."

From November 19th to December 2nd the Astrolabe cruised along the coast, touching only at
Jervis Bay, remarkable for its magnificent eucalyptus forests.

The reception given to the French at Port Jackson, by Governor Darling and the colonial authorities,
was none the less cordial for the fact that the visits made by D'Urville to various parts of
New Holland had greatly amazed the English Government.

During the last three years Port Jackson had increased greatly in size and improved in appearance;
though the population of the whole colony only amounted to 50,000, and that in spite of the
constant foundation of new English settlements. The commander took advantage of his stay in
Sydney to forward his despatches to France, together with several cases of natural history
specimens. This done and a fresh stock of provisions having been laid in, he resumed his voyage.

It would be useless to linger with Dumont d'Urville at New South Wales, to the history of which,
and its condition in 1826, he devotes a whole volume of his narrative. We have already given
a detailed account of it, and it will be better to leave Sydney with our traveller, on the
19th December, and follow him to Tasman Bay, through calms, head-winds, currents, and tempests,
which prevented his reaching New Zealand before the 14th January, 1827. Tasman Bay, first seen
by Cook on his second voyage, had never yet been explored by any expedition, and on the arrival
of the Astrolabe a number of canoes, containing some score of natives, most of them chiefs,
approached. These natives were not afraid to climb on board, some remaining several days, whilst
later arrivals drew up within reach, and a brisk trade was opened. Meanwhile several officers
climbed through the thick furze clothing the hills overlooking the bay, and the following is
D'Urville's verdict on the desolate scene which met their view.

"Not a bird, not an insect, not even a reptile to be seen, the solemn, melancholy silence is
unbroken by the voice of any living creature." From the summit of these hills the commander
saw New Bay, that known as Admiralty, which communicates by a current with that in which the
Astrolabe was anchored; and he was anxious to explore it, as it seemed safer than that of Tasman,
but the currents several times brought his vessel to the very verge of destruction; and had
the Astrolabe been driven upon the rocky coast, the whole crew would have perished, and not
so much as a trace of the wreck would have been left. At last, however, D'Urville succeeded
in clearing the passage with no further loss than that of a few bits of the ship's keel.

"To celebrate," says the narrative, "the memory of the passage of the Astrolabe, I conferred
upon this dangerous strait the name of the 'Passe des Français'" (French Pass), "but, unless
in a case of great necessity, I should not advise any one else to attempt it. We could now
look calmly at the beautiful basin in which we found ourselves; and which certainly deserves
all the praise given to it by Cook. I would specially recommend a fine little harbour, some
miles to the south of the place, where the captain cast anchor. Our navigation of the 'Passe
des Français' had definitively settled the insular character of the whole of the district terminating
in the 'Cape Stephens' of Cook. It is divided from the mainland of Te-Wahi-Punamub[1] by the
Current Basin. The comparison of our chart with that of the strait as laid down by Cook will
suffice to show how much he left to be done."

[Footnote 1: Now "South Island."--Trans.]

The Astrolabe soon entered Cook's Strait, and sailing outside Queen Charlotte's Bay, doubled
Cape Palliser, a headland formed of some low hills. D'Urville was greatly surprised to find
that a good many inaccuracies had crept into the work of the great English navigator, and in
that part of the account of his voyage which relates to hydrography, he quotes instances of
errors of a fourth, or even third of a degree.

The commander then resolved to make a survey of the eastern side of the northern island Ika-Na-Mawi.
On this island pigs were to be found, but no "pounamon" the green jade which the New Zealanders
use in the manufacture of their most valuable tools; strange to say, however, jade is to be
found on the southern island, but there are no pigs.

Two natives of the island, who had expressed a wish to remain on board the corvette, became
quite low-spirited as they watched the coast of the district where they lived disappear below
the horizon. They then began to repent, but too late, the intrepidity which had prompted them
to leave their native shores; for intrepid they justly deserve to be called, seeing that again
and again they asked the French sailors if they were not to be eaten, and it took several days
of kind treatment to dispel this fear from their minds.

D'Urville continued to sail northward up the coast until the capes, named by Cook Turn-again
and Kidnappers, had been doubled, and Sterile Island with its "Ipah" came in sight. In the
Bay of Tolaga, as Cook called it, the natives brought alongside the corvette pigs and potatoes,
which they readily exchanged for articles of little value. On other canoes approaching, the
New Zealanders who were on board the vessel urged the commander to fire upon and kill their
fellow-countrymen in the boats; but as soon as the latter climbed up to the deck, the first
arrivals advanced to greet them with earnest assurances of friendship. Conduct so strangely
inconsistent is the outcome of the compound of hatred and jealousy mutually entertained for
each other by these tribes. "They all desire to appropriate to themselves exclusively whatever
advantage may be obtained from the visits of foreigners, and they are distressed at the prospect
of their neighbours getting any share." Proof was soon afforded that this explanation is the
right key to their behaviour.

Upon the Astrolabe were several New Zealanders, but among them was a certain "Shaki" who was
recognized as a chief by his tall stature, his elaborate tattooing, and the respectful manner
in which he was addressed by his fellow-islanders. Seeing a canoe manned by not more than seven
or eight men approaching the corvette, this "Shaki" and the rest came to entreat D'Urville
most earnestly to kill the new arrivals, going so far as to ask for muskets that they might
themselves fire upon them. However, no sooner had the last comers arrived on board than all
those who were there already overwhelmed them with courtesies, while the "Shaki" himself, although
he had been one of the most sanguinary, completely changed his tone and made them a present
of some axes he had just obtained. After the chief men of a warlike and fierce appearance,
with faces tattooed all over, had been a few minutes on board, D'Urville was preparing to ask
them some questions, with the aid of a vocabulary published by the missionaries, when all at
once they turned away from him, leaped into their canoes and pushed out into the open sea.
This sudden move was brought about by their countrymen, who, for the purpose of getting rid
of them, slily hinted that their lives were in danger, as the Frenchmen had formed a plot to
kill them.

It was in the Bay of Tolaga, the right name of which is Houa-Houa, that D'Urville found the
first opportunity of gaining some information about the "kiwi," by means of a mat decorated
with the feathers of that bird, such mats being articles of luxury among these islanders. The
"kiwi" is about the size of a small turkey, and, like the ostrich, has not the power of flying.
It is hunted at night by the light of torches and with the assistance of dogs. It is this bird
which is also known under the name of the "apteryx." What the natives told D'Urville about
it was in the main accurate. The apteryx, with the tail of a fowl and a plumage of a reddish-brown,
has an affinity to the ostrich; it inhabits damp and gloomy woods, and never comes out even
in search of food except in the evening. The incessant hunting of the natives has considerably
diminished the numbers of this curious species, and it is now very rare.

D'Urville made no pause in the hydrographical survey of the northern island of New Zealand,
keeping up daily communication with the natives, who brought him supplies of pigs and potatoes.
According to their own statements, the tribes were perpetually at war with one another, and
this was the true cause of the decrease in the population of these islands. Their constant
demand was for fire-arms; failing to obtain these, they were satisfied if they could get powder
in exchange for their own commodities.

On the 10th February, when not far from Cape Runaway, the corvette was caught in a violent
storm, which lasted for thirty-six hours, and she was more than once on the point of foundering.
After this, she made her way into the Bay of Plenty, at the bottom of which rises Mount Edgecumbe;
then keeping along the coast, the islands of Haute and Major were sighted; but during this
exploration of the bay, the weather was so severe that the chart of it then laid down cannot
be considered very trustworthy. After leaving this bay, the corvette reached the Bay of Mercury;
surveyed Barrier Island, entered Shouraki or Hauraki Bay, identified the Hen and Chickens and
the Poor Knights Islands, finally arriving at the Bay of Islands. The native tribes met with
by D'Urville in this part of the island were busy with an expedition against those of Shouraki
and Waikato Bays. For the purpose of exploring the former bay, which had been imperfectly surveyed
by Cook, D'Urville sailed back to it, and discovered that that part of New Zealand is indented
with a number of harbours and gulfs of great depth, each one being safer, if possible, than
the other. Having been informed that by following the direction of the Wai Magoia, a place
would be reached distant only a very short journey from the large port of Manukau, he despatched
some of his officers by that route, and they verified the correctness of the information he
had received. This discovery, observes Dumont d'Urville, may become of great value to future
settlements of Shouraki Bay; and this value will be still farther increased should the new
surveys prove that the port of Manukau is accessible to vessels of a certain size, for such
a settlement would command two seas, one on the east and the other on the west.

One of the "Rangatiras," as the chiefs of that quarter of the island are called, Rangui by
name, had again and again begged the commander to give him some lead to make bullets with;
a request which was always refused. Just before setting sail, D'Urville was informed that the
deep-sea lead had been carried off; and he at once reproached Rangui in severe terms, telling
him that such petty larcenies were unworthy of a man in a respectable position. The chief appeared
to be deeply moved by the reproach, and excused himself by saying that he had no knowledge
of the theft, which must have been committed by some stranger. "A short time afterwards," the
narrative goes on to say, "my attention was drawn to the side of the ship by the sound of blows
given with great force, and piteous cries proceeding from the canoe of Rangui. There I saw
Rangui and Tawiti striking blow after blow with their paddles upon an object resembling the
figure of a man covered with a cloak. It was easy to perceive that the two wily chiefs were
simply beating one of the benches of the canoe. After this farce had been played for some little
time, Rangui's paddle broke in his hands. The sham man was made to appear to fall down, when
Rangui, addressing me, said that he had just killed the thief, and wished to know whether that
would satisfy me. I assured him that it would, laughing to myself at the artifice of these
savages; an artifice, for that matter, such as is often to be met with among people more advanced
in civilization."

D'Urville next surveyed the lovely island of Wai-hiki, and thus terminated the survey of the
Astrolabe Channel and Hauraki Bay. He then resumed his voyage in a northerly direction towards
the Bay of Islands, sailing as far as Cape Maria Van Diemen, the most northerly point of New
Zealand, where, say the Waïdonas, "the souls of the departed gather from all parts of Ika-Na-Mawi,
to take their final flight to the realms of light or to those of eternal darkness."

The Bay of Islands, at the time when the Coquille put in there, was alive with a pretty considerable
population, with whom the visitors soon became on friendly terms. Now, however, the animation
of former days had given place to the silence of desolation. The Ipah, or rather the Pah of
Kahou Wera, once the abode of an energetic tribe, was deserted, war had done its customary
destructive work in the place. The Songhui tribe had stolen the possessions, and dispersed
the members of the tribe of Paroa.

The Bay of Islands was the place chosen for their field of effort by the English missionaries,
who, notwithstanding their devotion to their work had not made any progress among the natives.
The unproductiveness of their labours was only too apparent.

The survey of the eastern side of New Zealand, a hydrographical work of the utmost importance,
terminated at this point. Since the days of Cook no exploration of anything like such a vast
extent of the coast of this country had been conducted in so careful a manner, in the face
of so many perils. The sciences of geography and navigation were both signally benefited by
the skilful and detailed work of D'Urville, who had to give proof of exceptional qualities
in the midst of sudden and terrible dangers. However, on his return to France, no notice was
taken of the hardships he had undergone, or the devotion to duty he had shown; he was left
without recognition, and duties were assigned to him, the performance of which could bring
no distinction, for they could have been equally well discharged by any ordinary ship's captain.

Leaving New Zealand on the 18th of March, 1827, D'Urville steered for Tonga Tabou, identified
to begin with the islands Curtis, Macaulay, and Sunday; endeavoured, but without success, to
find the island of Vasquez de Mauzelle, and arrived off Namouka on the 16th of April. Two days
later he made out Eoa; but before reaching Tonga Tabou he encountered a terrible storm which
all but proved fatal to the Astrolabe. At Tonga Tabou he found some Europeans, who had been
for many years settled on the island; from them he received much help in getting to understand
the character of the natives. The government was in the hands of three chiefs, called Equis,
who had shared all authority between them since the banishment of the Tonï Tonga, or spiritual
chief, who had enjoyed immense influence. A Wesleyan mission was in existence at Tonga; but
it could be seen at a glance that the Methodist clergy had not succeeded in acquiring any influence
over the natives. Such converts as had been made were held in general contempt for their apostasy.

When the Astrolabe had reached the anchorage, after her fortunate escape from the perils from
contrary winds, currents, and rocks, which had beset her course, she was at once positively
overwhelmed with the offer of an incredible quantity of stores, fruits, vegetables, fowls,
and pigs, which the natives were ready to dispose of for next to nothing. For equally low prices
D'Urville was able to purchase, for the museum, specimens of the arms and native productions
of the savages. Amongst them were some clubs, most of them made of casuarina wood, skilfully
carved, or embossed in an artistic manner with mother-of-pearl or with whalebone. The custom
of amputating a joint or two of the fingers or toes, to propitiate the Deity, was still observed,
in the case of a near relative being dangerously ill.

