"He stood his ground without flinching. 'I'm as much of a gentleman as you are a lady,' he
said. 'I have let you alone, but you have been tormenting me for weeks. You liked to try how
far you could go, and thought yourself virtuous because you felt no temptation. You didn't
care how you tempted me, or the other boys. You have tried your powers in public. O, yes, you
are too good to be sly! And so I determined to give you a public lesson, and everybody here,
I am sure, is thankful to me for it. Now, perhaps, you will let us alone. We want to be good,
we want to treat all women with respect; yet, when you pretty pink-and-white creatures smile
and smirk and set us on fire, then you say we are bad, we are not gentlemen. Maybe not. But
we are men, and we should find in you the true womanhood which is our salvation.'

"I can see him now, as he stood up so proudly, forgetting his bashfulness in his righteous
indignation,--and we all applauded him, I am glad to say. The girl was offended with us all,
and left the house and sought another boarding place. In her stead came a real, true, womanly
girl. Full of fun, a real comrade, ready to join our sports, to help us in every way possible,
but always making us feel that we were in honor bound to protect her from even a flirtatious
thought. Every man in the house was her friend, some of them, I am sure, her adorers, but none
ever ventured to approach her with familiarity. If she should meet any of us to-day, she would
not have to blush in the presence of her husband and children at the memory of any happening
of those days.

"This is the kind of a woman I want you to be, my daughter dear, a woman realizing a woman's
true place and power, as Ruskin says, 'Power to heal, to redeem, to guide, to guard!' Just
hand me the book and let me read you a few words from his essay on War. 'Believe me!' he says,
'the whole course and character of your lovers' lives is in your hand.

Helen sighed. "It is so much to ask," she said. "Has nothing been written to the men, how they
must help and protect women?"

Mr. Wayne smiled, as he kissed his little daughter and said, "Whatever has been written for
men I will keep to tell my son, and I trust it will help him to reverence all womanhood."

CHAPTER III.

As Mrs. Wayne and her daughter sat at their window they saw a carriage dash by containing a
handsomely dressed woman. Shortly after a very pretty girl passed the house, talking busily
with a boy of her own age.

"How funny some mothers are," said Helen. "That was Mrs. Eversman who rode by just now, and
that's Corrinne, her daughter. Mrs. Eversman pays no attention to Corrinne except to buy her
pretty clothes, and scold her for carelessness. Corrinne goes where she pleases. She has lots
of beaux, and when they call she won't let her mother come into the parlor,--she says she doesn't
want her 'snooping' around, and Mrs. Eversman only laughs. She seems to think it smart. And,
mother, Corrinne has such lovely presents from boys and young men. And when she goes to the
theatre with a young man, she insists on having a carriage and flowers and a supper afterward.
She says no fellow need come around her unless he has 'the spondulics,' she calls money."

"Poor child!" said Mrs. Wayne thoughtfully. "How little she understands the purpose of life!"

"But she says she wants to have a good time," urged Helen.

"Surely," was Mrs. Wayne's reply. "Every girl is entitled to a good time, but that does not
of necessity consist of spending money. I should think she wouldn't like to be under such obligations
to young men."

"O, I guess she doesn't think she is under obligations. She thinks they are under obligation
to her for condescending to go with them. But, mother, ought a girl let a young man spend money
on her?"

