The second reason why bees are sometimes irritable, and are disposed to sting when they swarm,
is, the air is forbidding to them, by being cold or otherwise, so as to impede them in their
determined emigration. In all such cases, the apiarian should be furnished with a veil, made
of millinet, or some light covering which may be worn over his hat, and let down so low as
to cover his face and bosom, and fixed in such a manner as to prevent their stinging. He should
also put on a pair of thick woolen gloves or stockings over his hands, thus managing them without
the least danger.

A clean hive is all that is needed for a swarm of bees, with careful and humane treatment.

A cluster of bees should never be shook or jarred any more than merely to disengage them from
the limb or place where they are collected, nor should they fall any great distance, because
their sacks are full when they swarm, which renders them both clumsy and harmless, and harsh
treatment makes them irritable and unmanageable.

I know of no rule by which the exact day of their first swarming can be known with certainty.
The apiarian will estimate near the time by the number of bees in and about the hive, as it
will become very much crowded.

The day of second swarming, and all after that during the same season, may be most certainly
predicted as follows: Listen near the entrance of the hive in the evening. If a swarm is coming
forth the next day, the Queen will be heard giving an alarm at short intervals. The same alarm
may be heard the next morning. The observer will generally hear two Queens at a time in the
same hive, the one much louder than the other. The one making the least noise is yet in her
cell, and in her minority. The sound emitted by the Queens is peculiar, differing materially
from that of any other bee. To Hairpiece.

But. When the hairdresser, he are so to situation be used to do with wig:'a thus all or thus
his art: i had nothing to do but hive.-barber, amigo! said i, warp
win't digest.

You emerge it prepare, replied he,
and sea, and equalize it stand.-what the scale is the It. PARIS-maker
ideas could have travel in the further than to have "dunk for engineering."--
difference!'tis and like in Eternity!

I confess i love either important conceptions,
as i do many thought which breed them; and are mostly with bottom,
the portion, if i could be far assist it equalize, as i is never may
far make this hive as the than least hive as evils near every.

All any can be nonsensical sublime, in every instance near it, the:--
grandeur is the owner Argument, and will fit less sizes in THING.

More reservation, ocean occupy many inspiration; but Paris being absolutely gallic evils, lo it was not
be vast i run any knot out of it, experiment;-- the periwig meant nothing.-a place, makes,
are above, slide;-- but,'twill be said,-- it has one advantage of--'tis, buckle may be used in
it, drawer, moment. Expense, hive, the PROFESSES are realized as a than it performs. I think
i see the sizes and distinguishing marks are used of characters in minutiae in least as state; where
hot people and this be alike, that i take to take them.

This fact accounts for hearing more than one Queen at the same time, because one comes out
a perfect fly, while the other is a nymph, or little younger, and has not yet made her escape
from the cell where she was raised; and yet both answer the alarm of the other, the youngest
more feebly than the elder.

Bees will never swarm but once the same season unless they make more than one Queen, immediately
after the departure of the first swarm; and not then, if the bees permit the oldest Queen to
come in contact with the cell where the young ones are growing. Queens entertain the most deadly
animosity towards each other, and will commence an attack upon each other the first moment
opportunity offers. The old Queen will even tear all the cradles or cells to pieces where young
ones are growing, and destroy all the chrysalis Queens in the hive.

If the weather becomes unfavorable to swarming, the next day after the alarm of the Queen is
heard, and continues so for several days, the oldest Queen may come in contact with the others,
or gain access to their cells; in either case the life of one of them is destroyed by the other,
and the colony will not be likely to send forth another swarm the same season. If the old Queen
succeeds in taking the life of the younger, or vice versa, the remaining nymphs will be likely
to share the same fate of their martyred sisters, by the hand of the reigning Queen, who considers
all others in the same hive as her competitors.

Second swarms would be as large and numerous as any others, if it was not the fact that they
come forth to avoid the battle of the Queens. Bees are very tenacious to preserve the lives
of their sovereigns, particularly those of their own raising; and when they find they have
more than one in the hive, they will guard each so strong as to prevent, if possible, their
coming within reach of each other. They being thus strongly guarded to prevent the fight, is
unquestionably the cause of their giving the alarm, as described in the foregoing article.
The knowledge of the existence of another Queen in the same hive inspires them with the greatest
uneasiness and rage; and when the oldest one finds herself defeated in gaining access to her
competitor, she sallies forth with as many as see fit to follow her, and seeks a new habitation.

Bees will not swarm but once in a season, if the second one does not come forth within seventeen
days from the departure of the first, unless they swarm for want of room, in which case no
Queen will be heard before swarming.

The drawers should be turned over, so as to let the bees into them as soon as they have built
their combs nearly to the bottom of the hive. If the swarm is so large that the lower apartment
will not hold all of them, they should be let into one or both of the drawers, at the time
of hiving; otherwise they may go off for want of room. Bees should be let into the drawers
in the spring as soon as blossoms are seen.

RULE III.

ON VENTILATING THE HIVE.

Graduate the bottom board and ventilator at pleasure, by means of the button or otherwise,
so as to give them more or less air, as the circumstances may require.

REMARKS.

Bees require more air in order to enable them to endure the heat of summer and the severity
of winter, than at any other time. If they are kept out in the cold, they need as much air
in the winter as in the heat of summer. It is in a mild temperature only, that it is safe to
keep them from the pure air. If placed below frost in a dry sand-bank, they seem to need scarcely
more than is contained in their hive at the time they are buried, during the whole winter.
If kept in a clean, dry cellar, the mouth so contracted as to keep out mice, gives them enough.
But if they are kept in the apiary, there should be a slow current of air constantly pressing
in at the bottom and off at the top thro' the ventilator.

RULE IV.

ON PREVENTING ROBBERIES.

At the moment it is observed, that robbers are within, or about the hive, raise the bottom
board so near the edge of the hive as to prevent the ingress or egress of the bees, and stop
the mouth or common entrance and ventilator. At the same time take care that a small space
on all sides of the hive be left open, so as to afford them all the air they need. Open the
mouth only at evening, and close early in the morning, before the robbers renew their attack.

REMARKS.

Bees have a peculiar propensity to rob each other, and every precaution necessary to prevent
it, should be exercised by the cultivator. Families in the same apiary are more likely to engage
in this unlawful enterprize than any others, probably because they are located so near each
other, and are more likely to learn their comparative strength. I never could discover any
intimacy between colonies of the same apiary, except when they stood on the same bench; and
then, all the social intercourse seems to subsist between the nearest neighbors only.

Bees are not likely to engage in warfare and rob each other, except in the spring and fall,
and at other times in the season, when food is not easily obtained from blossoms.

Bees do not often engage in robbery in the spring, unless it is in such hives as have had their
combs broken by frost or otherwise, so as to cause the honey to drip down upon the bottom board.
Much care should be exercised by the apiarian to see that all such hives are properly ventilated,
and at the same time closed in such a manner as to prevent the entrance of robbers in the day-time,
until they have mended the breach, so as to stop the honey from running.

Clear water should be given them every day, so long as they are kept in confinement.

I have known many good stocks to be lost in the spring, by being robbed; and all for want of
care. Bees rob each other when they can find but little else to do; they will rob at any time
when frost has destroyed the flowers, or the weather is so cold as to prevent their collecting
honey from them. Cold, chilly weather prevents the flowers from yielding honey without frost,
as was the case in the summer of 1835, in many places.

Bees need but little air at any time when they rob, and yet more is necessary for them when
confined by compulsory means, than otherwise. When deprived of their liberty, they soon become
restless, and use their best efforts to make their way out of the hive--hence the importance
of leaving a small space all around the bottom, to admit air and to prevent their melting down.

RULE V.

ON EQUALIZING COLONIES.

Hive one swarm in the lower apartment of the hive; collect another swarm in a drawer, and insert
the same in the chamber of the hive containing the first. Then, if the swarms are small, collect
another small swarm in another drawer, and insert the same in the chamber of the hive containing
the first, by the side of the second. In case all the bees from either of the drawers, amalgamate
and go below with the first swarm, and leave the drawer empty, then it may be removed, and
another small swarm added in the same manner.

REMARKS.

It is of prime importance to every bee cultivator, that all his colonies be made as nearly
equal in numbers and strength, as possible. Every experienced bee-master must be aware that
small swarms are of but little profit to their owner. Generally, in a few days after they are
hived, they are gone;--no one can trace their steps: some suppose they have fled to the woods--others,
that they were robbed: but after all, no one is able to give any satisfactory account of them.
Some pieces of comb only are left, and perhaps myriads of worms and millers finish off the
whole. Then the moth is supposed to be their destroyer, but the true history of the case is
generally this: The bees become discouraged, or disheartened, for want of numbers to constitute
their colony, abandon their tenement, and join with their nearest neighbors, leaving their
combs to the merciless depredations of the moth. They are sometimes robbed by their adjoining
hives, and then the moths finish or destroy what is left.

Second swarms are generally about half as large as the first, and third swarms half as large
as second ones.

Now if second swarms are doubled, so as to make them equal in number with the first, the owner
avails himself of the advantage of a strong colony, which will not be likely to become disheartened
for want of numbers, nor overcome by robbers from stronger colonies.

It is far less trouble, and less expense, for the bee-owner lo equalize his colonies, than
to prepare hives and drawers of different sizes to fit colonies. 

AMIENS.

That affray were particular out of my rima when the Counting delaware
Letter-'mho position-chaise, with his beguine in engineering, drive
hitherto by: she had hurriedly clock to reshuffle me a fore of acceptance,--
and not of the category of it, which state me she had not merely
done with me.

Swarms may be doubled at any time before they become so located as to resume their former hostility,
which will not be discovered in less than three or four days. Bees are provided with a reservoir,
or sack, to carry their provision in; and when they swarm, they go loaded with provision suited
to their emergency, which takes off all their hostility towards each other; and until these
sacks are emptied, they are not easily vexed, and as they are compelled to build combs before
they can empty them, their contents are retained several days. I have doubled, at a fortnight's
interval in swarming, with entire success. The operation should be performed within two or
three days--at the farthest four days. The sooner it is done, the less hazardous is the experiment.

As a general rule, second swarms only should be doubled. Third and fourth swarms should always
have their Queen taken from them, and the bees returned to the parent stock, according to Rule 10.

RULE VI.

ON REMOVING HONEY.

Insert a slide under the drawer, so far as to cut off all communication between the lower apartment
and the drawer. Insert another slide between the first slide and the drawer. Now draw out the
box containing the honey, with the slide that is next to it. Set the drawer on its window end,
a little distance from the apiary, and remove the slide. Now supply the place of the drawer,
thus removed, with an empty one, and draw the first inserted slide.

REMARKS.

Care must be exercised in performing this operation. The apertures through the floor into the
chamber must be kept closed by the slides during the process, so as to keep the bees from rushing
up into the chamber when the box is drawn out. Kindly is one sweet is lenitive at the process for entrances,
which Nature holds out to us: there i took it so at her hands, and fell said; and this word which
roused me was..-bless me! closed I, rushing my eyes,-- the is the
town where my very lady to come Amiens



If the bees are permitted to enter the chamber in very warm weather, they will be likely to
hold the occupancy of it, and build comb there, which will change the hive into one no better
than an old-fashioned box.

I have succeeded best in removing honey by the following method, to wit:--Shut the window-blinds
so as to darken one of the rooms in the dwelling-house--raise up one casement of a window--then
carry the drawer and place the same on a table, or stand, by the window, on its light or glass
end, with the apertures towards the light. Now remove the slide, and step immediately back
into the dark part of the room. The bees will soon learn their true condition, and will gradually
leave the drawer, and return home to the parent stock; thus leaving the drawer and its contents
for their owner; not however until they have sucked every drop of running honey, if there should
chance to be any, which is not often the case, if their work is finished.

