By means of a well-equipped fleet of grabs and gallivats he made himself master  of place after
place along the coast, including the Maratha fortress at Suwarndrug and the Portuguese fort
of Gheria. His successors, who adopted in turn the dynastic name of Angria, followed up Kunaji's
conquest, until by the year 1750 the ruling Angria was in possession of a strip of territory
on the mainland a hundred and eighty miles long and about forty broad, together with many small
adjacent islands.

For  the  defense  of this little piratical state Angria's Marathas constructed  a  number
of  forts, choosing admirable positions and displaying no small measure of engineering skill.
From these strongholds they  made depredations by sea and land, not only upon their native
neighbors,  but also upon the European traders, English, Dutch, and Portuguese;  swooping down
on unprotected merchant vessels and even presuming to attack warships. Several expeditions
had been directed against them, but always in vain; and when in 1754 the chief of that date,
Tulaji Angria, known to Europeans as the Pirate, burnt two large Dutch vessels of fifty and
thirty-six guns respectively, and captured a smaller one of eighteen guns, he boasted in his
elation that he would soon be master of the Indian seas.

But a term was about to be put to his insolence and his depredations. On March twenty-second,
1755, Commodore William James, commander of the East India Company's marine force, set sail
from Bombay in the Protector of forty-four guns, with the Swallow of sixteen guns, and two
bomb vessels. With  the  assistance of a Maratha fleet he had attacked the island fortress
of Suwarndrug, and captured it, as Hybati had related. A few days  afterwards  another of the
Pirate's fortresses, the island of Bancoote, six miles north of Suwarndrug, surrendered. The
Maratha rajah, Ramaji Punt, delighted with these successes against fortified places which had
for nearly fifty years been deemed impregnable, offered the English commodore an immense sum
of money to proceed against others of Angria's forts; but the monsoon approaching, the commodore
was recalled to Bombay.

The spot at which the Good Intent had fallen in with the sinking grab was about eighty miles
from the Indian coast, and Captain Barker expected to sight land next day. No one was more
delighted at the prospect than Desmond. Leaving out of account the miseries of the long voyage,
he felt that now he was within reach of the goal of his hopes. The future was all uncertain;
he was no longer inclined to trust his fortunes to Diggle, for though he could not believe
that the man had deliberately practised against his life, he had with good reason lost confidence
in him, and what he had learned from Bulger threw a new light on his past career.

One thing puzzled him. If the Pirate was such a terror to unprotected ships, and strong enough
to attack several armed vessels at once, why was Captain Barker running into the very jaws
of the enemy? In her palmy days as an East Indiaman the Good Intent had carried a dozen nine-pounders
on her upper deck and six on the quarterdeck; and Bulger had said that under a  stout  captain
she  had once beaten off near Surat half a dozen three-masted grabs and a score of gallivats
from the pirate stronghold at Gheria. But now she had only half a dozen guns all told, and
even had she possessed the full armament there were not men enough to work them, for her complement
of forty men was only half what it had been when she sailed under the Company's flag.

Desmond confided his puzzlement to Bulger. The seaman laughed.

"Why, bless 'ee, we en't a-goin' to run into no danger. Trust Cap'n Barker for that. You en't
supercargo, to be sure; but who do you think them guns and round shots in the hold be for?
Why, the Pirate himself. And he'll pay a good price for 'em, too."

"Do you mean to say that English merchants supply Angria with weapons to fight against their
own countrymen?"

"Well, blest if you en't a innocent. In course they do. The guns en't always fust-class metal,
to be sure; but what's the odds? The interlopers ha' got to live."

"I don't call that right. It's not patriotic."

"Patry what?"

"Patriotic--a right way of thinking of one's own country. An Englishman isn't worth the name
who helps England's enemies."

Bulger looked at him in amazement. The idea of patriotism was evidently new to him.

"I'll have to put that there notion in my pipe and smoke it," he said. "I'd fight any mounseer,
or Dutchman, or Portuguee as soon as look at him, 'tis on'y natural; but if a mounseer likes
to give me twopence for a thing  that's  worth  a  penny--why,  I'll  say  thank  'ee and axe
him--leastways  if  there's any matey by as knows the lingo--to buy another."

Shortly after dawn next morning the lookout reported four vessels to windward. From their appearance
Captain Barker at once concluded that two were Company's ships, with an escort of a couple
of grabs. As he was still scanning them he was joined by Diggle, with whom he entered into
conversation.

"They're making for Bombay, I reckon," said the captain.

"I take it we don't wish to come to close quarters with them, Barker?"

"By thunder, no! But if we hold our present course we're bound to pass within hailing distance.
Better put 'em off the scent."

He altered the vessel's course a point or two with the object of passing to windward of the
strangers, as if steering for the Portuguese port of Goa.

"They are running up their colors," remarked Diggle, half an hour later.

"British, as I thought. We'll hoist Portuguese."

A minute or two later a puff of smoke was observed to sally from the larger of the two grabs,
followed in a few seconds by the boom of a gun.

"A call to us to heave to," said Bulger, in answer to Desmond's inquiry. "The unbelievin' critters
thinks that Portuguee rag is all my eye."

But the Good Intent was by this time to windward of the vessels, and Captain Barker, standing
on the quarterdeck, paid no heed to the signal. After a short interval another puff came from
the deck of the grab, and a round shot plunged into the sea a cable's length from the Good
Intent's bows, the grab at the same time hauling her wind and preparing to alter her course
in pursuit. This movement was at once copied by the other three vessels, but being at least
half a mile ahead of the grab that had fired, they were a long distance astern when the chase--for
chase it was to be--began.

Captain Barker watched the grab with the eyes of a lynx. The Good Intent had run out of range
while the grab was being put about; but the captain knew very well that the pursuer could sail
much closer to the wind than his own vessel, and that his only chance was to beat off the leading
boat before the others had time to come up.

It required very little at any time to put Captain Barker into a rage, and his demeanor was
watched now with different feelings by different members of the crew. Diggle alone appeared
unconcerned; he was smiling as he lolled against the mast.

"They'll fire at me, will they?" growled the captain with a curse. "And chase me, will they?
By jimmy, they shall sink me before I surrender!"

"Degeneres animos timor arguit," quoted Diggle, smiling.

"Argue it? I'll be hanged if I argue it! They're not king's ships to take it on 'emselves to
stop me on the high seas! If the Company wants to prevent me from honest trading in these waters
let 'em go to law, and be hanged to 'em! Talk of arguing! Lawyer's work. Humph!"

"You mistake, Barker. The Roman fellow whose words slipped out of my mouth almost unawares
said nothing of arguing. 'Fear is the mark of only base minds': so it runs in English, captain;
which is as much as to say that Captain Ben Barker is not the man to haul down his colors in
a hurry."

"You're right there. Another shot! That's their argument: well, Ben Barker can talk that way
as well as another."

He called up the boatswain. Shortly afterwards the order was piped, "Up all hammocks!" The
men quickly stowed their bedding, secured it with lashings, and carried it to the appointed
places on the quarterdeck, poop, or forecastle. Meanwhile the boatswain and his mates secured
the yards; the ship's carpenter brought up shot plugs for repairing any breeches made under
the waterline; and the gunners looked to the cannon and prepared charges for them and the small
arms.

Bulger was in charge of the twelve-pounder aft, and Mr. Toley had tolled off Desmond to assist
him. They stood side by side watching the progress of the grab, which gained steadily in spite
of the plunging due to its curious build. Presently another shot came from her; it shattered
the belfry on the forecastle of the Good Intent, and splashed into the sea a hundred yards ahead.

"They make good practice, for sartin," remarked Bulger. "I may be wrong, but I'll lay my life
there be old man-o'-war's men aboard. I mind me when I was with Captain Golightly on the Minotaur--"

But Bulger's yarn was intercepted. At that moment the boatswain piped, "All hands to quarters!"
In a surprisingly short time all timber was cleared away, the galley fire was extinguished,
the yards slung, the deck strewn with wet sand, and sails, booms, and boats liberally drenched
with water. The gun captains, each with his crew, cast loose the lashings of their weapons
and struck open the ports. The tompions was taken out; the sponge, rammer, crows and handspikes
placed in readiness, and all awaited eagerly the word for the action to begin.

"'Tis about time we opened our mouths at 'em," said Bulger. "The next bolus they send us as
like as not will bring the spars a-rattlin' about our  ears.  To  be  sure it goes against
my stummick to fire on old messmates; but it en't in Englishmen to hold their noses and swallow
pills o' that there size. We'll load up all ready, mateys."

He stripped to the waist, and tied a handkerchief over his ears. Desmond and the men followed
his example. Then one of them sponged the bore, another inserted the cartridge, containing
three pounds of powder, by means of a long ladle, a third shoved in a wad of rope yarn. This
having been driven home by the rammer, the round shot was inserted, and covered like the cartridge
with a wad. Then Bulger took his priming iron, an instrument like a long thin corkscrew, and
thrust it into the touch hole to clear the vent and make an incision in the cartridge. Removing
the priming iron, he replaced it by the priming tube--a thin tapering tube with very narrow
bore. Into this he poured a quantity of fine mealed powder; then he laid a train of the same
powder in the little groove cut in the gun from the touch hole towards the breech. With the
end of his powder horn he slightly bruised the train, and the gun only awaited a spark from
the match.

Everything was done very quickly, and Desmond watched the seamen with admiration. He himself
had charge of the linstock, about which was wound several matches, consisting of lengths of
twisted cotton wick steeped in lye. They had already been lighted, for they burnt so slowly
that they would last for several hours.

"Now, we're shipshape," said Bulger. "Mind you, Burke, don't come to far for'ard with your
linstock. I don't want the train fired with no sparks afore I'm ready. And 'ware o' the breech;
she'll kick like a jumping jackass when the shot flies out of her, an'll knock your teeth out
afore you can say Jack Robinson--

"Ah! there's the word at last; now, mateys, here goes!"

He laid the gun, waited for the ship to rise from a roll, and then took one of the matches,
gently blew its smoldering end, and applied the glowing wick to the bruised part of the priming.
There was a flash, a roar, and before Desmond could see the effect of the shot Bulger had closed
the vent, the gun was run in, and the sponger was at work cleaning the chamber.

As the black smoke cleared away it was apparent that the seaman had not forgotten his cunning.
The shot had struck the grab on the deck of the prow and smashed into the forecastle. But the
bow chasers were apparently uninjured, for they replied a few seconds later.

"Ah! There's a wunner!" said Bulger admiringly.

A  shot  had carried away a yard of the gunwale of the Good Intent, scattering splinters far
and wide, which inflicted nasty wounds on the second mate and a seaman on the quarterdeck.
A jagged end of the wood flying high struck Diggle on the left cheek. He wiped away the blood
imperturbably; it was evident that lack of courage was not among his defects.

Captain Barker's ire was now at white heat. Shouting an order to Bulger and the next man to
make rapid practice with the two stern chasers, he prepared to fall off and bring the Good
Intent's broadside to bear on the enemy.

But the next shot was decisive. Diggle had quietly strolled down to the gun next to Bulger's.
It had just been reloaded. He bade the gun captain, in a low tone, to move aside. Then, with
a glance to see that the priming was in order, he took careful sight, and waiting until the
grab's main, mizzen and foremasts opened to view altogether, he applied the match. The shot
sped true, and a second later the grab's mainmast, with sails and rigging, went by the board.

A wild cheer from the crew of the Good Intent acclaimed the excellent shot.

"By  thunder!" said Bulger to Desmond. "Diggle may be a rogue and a vagabond, but he knows
how to train a gun."

Captain Barker signified his approval by a tremendous mouth-filling oath. But he was not yet
safe. The second grab was following hard in the wake of the first; and it was plain that the
two Indiamen were both somewhat faster than the Good Intent; for during the running fight that
had just ended so disastrously for the grab, they had considerably lessened the gap between
them and their quarry. Captain Barker watched them with an expression of fierce determination,
but not without anxiety. If they should come within striking distance it was impossible to
withstand successfully their heavier armament and larger crews. The firing had ceased: each
vessel had crowded on all sail; and the brisk breeze must soon bring pursuer and pursued to
a close engagement which could have only one result.

"I may be wrong, but seems to me we'd better say our prayers," Bulger remarked grimly to his
gun crew.

But Desmond, gazing up at the shrouds, said suddenly:

"The wind's dropping. Look!"

It was true. Before the monsoon sets in in earnest it not unfrequently happens  that the wind
veers fitfully; a squall is succeeded almost instantaneously by a calm. So it was now. In less
than an hour all five vessels were becalmed; and when night fell three miles separated the
Good Intent from the second grab; the Indiamen lay a mile farther astern; and the damaged vessel
was out of sight.

Captain Barker took counsel with his officers. He expected to be attacked during the night
by the united boats of the pursuing fleet. Under cover of darkness they would be able to creep
up close and board the vessel, and the captain knew well that if taken he would be treated
as a pirate. His papers were made out for Philadelphia; he had hoisted Portuguese colors, but
the enemy at close quarters could easily see that the Good Intent was British built; he had
disabled one of the Company's vessels; there would be no mercy for him.

He saw no chance of beating off the enemy; they would outnumber him by at least five to one.
Even if the wind sprang up again there was small likelihood of escape. One or other of the
pursuing vessels would almost certainly overhaul him, and hold him until the others came up.

"'Tis a 'tarnal fix," he said.

"Methinks 'tis a case of actum est de nobis," remarked Diggle pleasantly.

"Confound you!" said the captain with a burst of anger. "What could I expect with a gallows
bird like you aboard? 'Tis enough to sink a vessel without shot."

Diggle's face darkened. But in a moment his smile returned.

"You are overwrought, captain," he said; "you are unstrung. 'Twould be ridiculous to take amiss
words said in haste. In cold blood--well, you know me, Captain Barker. I will leave you to
recover from your brief madness."

He  went  below.  The captain was left with Mr. Toley and the other officers. Barker and Toley
always got on well together, for the simple reason that the mate never thwarted his superior,
never resented his abuse, but went quietly his own way. He listened now for a quarter of an
hour, with fixed sadness of expression, while Captain Barker poured the vials of his wrath
upon everything under the sun. When the captain had come to an end, and sunk into an estate
of lowering dudgeon, Mr. Toley said quietly:

"'Tis all you say, sir, and more. I guess I've never seen a harder case. But while you was
speaking, something you said struck a sort of idea into my brain."

"That don't happen often. What is it?"

"Why, the sort of idea that came to me out o' what you was saying was just this. How would
it be to take soundings?"

"So, that's your notion, is it? Hang me, are you a fool like the rest of 'em? You're always
taking soundings! What in the name of thunder do you want to take soundings for?"

"Nothing particular, cap'n. That was the kind o' notion that come of what you was saying. Of
course it depends on the depths hereabouts."

"Deep enough to sink you and your notions and all that's like to come of 'em. Darned if I ain't
got the most lubberly company ever mortal man was plagued with. Officers and men, there en't
one of you as is worth your salt, and you with your long face and your notions--why, hang me,
you're no more good than the dirtiest waister afloat."

Mr. Toley smiled sadly, and ventured on no rejoinder. After the captain's outburst none of
the group dared to utter a word. This pleased him no better; he cursed them all for standing
mum; and spent ten minutes in reviling them in turn. Then his passion appeared to have burnt
itself out. Turning suddenly to the melancholy mate, he said roughly:

"Go and heave your lead, then, and be hanged to it."

Mr.  Toley  walked away aft and ordered one of the men to heave the deep-sea  lead. The plummet,
shaped like the frustum of a cone, and weighing thirty pounds, was thrown out from the side
in the line of the vessel's drift.

"By the mark sixty, less five," sang out the man when the lead touched the bottom.

"I guess that'll do," said the first mate, returning to the quarterdeck.

"Well, what about your notion?" said the captain scornfully. But he listened quietly and with
an intent look upon his weatherbeaten face as Mr. Toley explained.

"You see, sir," he said, "while you was talking just now, I sort o' saw that if they attack
us, 'twon't be for at least two hours after dark. The boats won't put off while there's light
enough to see 'em; and won't hurry anyhow, 'cos if they did the men 'ud have nary much strength
left to 'em. Well, they'll take our bearings, of course. Thinks I, owing to what you said,
sir, what if we could shift 'em by half a mile or so? The boats 'ud miss us in the darkness."

"That's so," ejaculated the captain; "and what then?"

"Well, sir, 'tis there my idea of taking soundings comes in. The Good Intent can't be towed,
not with our handful of men; but why shouldn't she be kedged? That's the notion, sir; and I
guess you'll think it over."

"By jimmy, Toley, you en't come out o' Salem, Massachusetts, for nothing. 'Tis a notion, a
rare one; Ben Barker en't the man to bear a grudge, and I take back them words o' mine--leastways
some on 'em.

"Bo'sun, get ready to lower the longboat."

The longboat was lowered, out of sight of the enemy. A kedge anchor, fastened to a stout hawser,
was put on board, and as soon as it was sufficiently dark to make so comparatively small an
object as a boat invisible to the hostile craft, she put off at right angles to the Good Intent's
previous course, the hawser attached to the kedge being paid out as the boat drew away. When
it had gone about a fifth of a mile from the vessel the kedge was dropped, and a signal was
given by hauling on the rope.

"Clap on, men!" cried Captain Barker. "Get a good purchase, and none of your singsong; avast
all jabber."

The crew manned the windlass and began with a will to haul on the cable in  dead silence. The
vessel was slowly warped ahead. Meanwhile the longboat was returning; when she reached the
side of the Good Intent, a second kedge was lowered into her, and again she put off, to drop
the anchor two cables' length beyond the first, so that when the ship had tripped that, the
second was ready to be hauled on.

When the Good Intent had been thus warped a mile from her position at nightfall, Captain Parker
ordered the operation to be stopped. To avoid noise the boat was not hoisted in. No lights
were shown, and the sky being  somewhat  overcast,  the boat's crew found that the ship was
invisible at the distance of a fourth of a cable's length.

"I may be wrong," said Bulger to Desmond, "but I don't believe kedgin' was  ever done so far
from harbor afore. I allers thought there was something in that long head of Mr. Toley, though,
to be sure, there en't no call for him to pull a long face, too."

An hour passed after the loading had been stopped. All on board the Good Intent remained silent,
speaking, if they spoke at all, in whispers. There had been no signs of the expected attack.
Desmond was leaning on the gunwale, straining his eyes for a glimpse of the enemy. But his
ears gave  him  the first intimation of their approach. He heard a faint creaking, as of oars
in rowlocks, and stepped back to where Bulger was leaning against the mast.

"There they come," he said.

The  sound had already reached Captain Barker's ears. It was faint; doubtless the oars were
muffled. The ship was rolling lazily; save for the creaking nothing was heard but the lapping
of the ripples against the hull. So still was the night that the slightest sound must travel
far, and the captain remarked in a whisper to Mr. Toley that he guessed the approaching boats
to be at least six cables' lengths distant.

Officers and men listened intently. The creaking grew no louder; on the contrary, it gradually
became fainter, and at last died away. There was a long  silence,  broken  only  by  what sounded
like a low hail some considerable distance away.

"They're musterin' the boats," said Bulger, with a chuckle. "I may be wrong, but I'll bet my
breeches they find they've overshot the mark. Now they'll scatter and try to nose us out."

Another hour of anxious suspense slowly passed, and still nothing had happened. Then suddenly
a blue light flashed for a few moments on the blackness of the sea, answered almost instantaneously
by a rocket from another quarter. It was clear that the boats, having signaled that the search
had failed, had been recalled by the rocket to the fleet.

"By thunder, Mr. Toley, you've done the trick!" said the captain.

"I  guess we don't get our living by making mistakes--not in Salem, Massachusetts," returned
the first mate with his sad smile.

Through the night the watch was kept with more than ordinary vigilance, but nothing occurred
to give Captain Barker anxiety. With morning light the enemy could be seen far astern.

About  midday  a light breeze sprang up from the northwest. The two Indiamen and the uninjured
grab, being the first to catch it, gained a full mile before the Good Intent, under topgallant
sails, studding sails, royal and driver, began to slip through the water at her best speed.
But, as the previous day's experience had proved, she was no match in sailing capacity for
the pursuers. They gained on her steadily, and the grab had come almost within cannon range
when the man at the masthead shouted:

"Sail ho! About a dozen sail ahead, sir!"

The captain spluttered out a round dozen oaths, and his dark face grew still darker. So many
vessels in company must surely mean the king's ships with a convoy. The French, so far as Captain
Barker knew, had no such fleet in Indian waters, nor had the Dutch or Portuguese. If they were
indeed British men-o'-war he would be caught between two fires, for there was not a doubt that
they would support the Company's vessels.

"We  ought to be within twenty miles of the coast, Mr. Toley," said Captain Barker.

"Ay, sir, and somewhere in the latitude of Gheria."

"Odds bobs, and now I come to think of it, those there vessels may be sailing  to attack Gheria,
seeing as how, as these niggers told us, they've bust up Suwarndrug."

"Guess I'll get to the foretop myself and take a look, sir," said Mr. Toley.

He mounted, carrying the only perspective glass the vessel possessed. The captain watched him
anxiously as he took a long look.

"What do you make of 'em?" he shouted.

The mate shut up the telescope and came leisurely down.

"I count fifteen in all, sir."

"I don't care how many. What are they?"

"I calculate they're grabs and gallivats, sir."

The captain gave a hoarse chuckle.

"By thunder, then, we'll soon turn the tables! Angria's gallivats--eh, Mr. Toley? We'll make
a haul yet."

But Captain Barker was to be disappointed. The fleet had been descried also by the pursuers.
A few minutes later the grab threw out a signal, hauled her wind and stood away to the northward,
followed closely by the two larger vessels. The captain growled his disappointment. Nearly
a dozen of the coast craft, as they were now clearly seen to be, went in pursuit,  but  with
little chance of coming up with the chase. The remaining vessels of the newly-arrived fleet
stood out to meet the Good Intent.

"Fetch us that Maratha fellow," cried the captain, "and hoist a white flag."

When the Maratha appeared, a pitiable object, emaciated for want of food, Captain  Barker bade
him shout as soon as the newcomers came within hailing distance. The white flag at the masthead,
and a loud, long-drawn hail from Hybati, apprised the grab that the Good Intent was no enemy,
and averted hostilities. And thus it was, amid a convoy of Angria's own fleet, that Captain
Barker's vessel, a few hours later, sailed peacefully into the harbor of Gheria.

Desmond looked with curious eyes on the famous fort and harbor. On the right, as the Good Intent
entered, he saw a long, narrow promontory, at the end of which was a fortress, constructed,
as it appeared, of solid rock. The promontory was joined to the mainland by a narrow isthmus
of sand, beyond which lay an open town of some size. The shore was fringed with palmyras, mangoes
and other tropical trees, and behind the straw huts and stone buildings of the town leafy groves
clothed the sides of a gentle hill.

The harbor, which forms the mouth of a river, was studded with Angria's vessels,  large and
small, and from the docks situated on the sandy isthmus came the busy sound of shipwrights
at work. The rocky walls of the fort were fifty feet high, with round towers, long curtains,
and some fifty embrasures. The left shore of the harbor was flat, but to the south of the fort
rose a hill of the same height as the walls of rock. Such was the headquarters of the notorious
pirate Tulaji Angria, the last of the line which had for fifty years been the terror of the
Malabar coast.

The Good Intent dropped anchor off the jetty running out from the docks north of the fort.
Captain Barker had already given orders that no shore leave was to be allowed to the crew,
and as soon as he had stepped into the longboat, accompanied by Diggle, the men's discontent
broke forth in angry imprecations, which Mr. Toley wisely affected not to hear.

No time was lost in unloading the portion of the cargo intended for Angria. The goods were
carried along the jetty by stalwart Marathas clad only in loincloths, and stored in rude cabins
with penthouse roofs. As Desmond knew, the heavy chests that taxed the strength of the bearers
contained for the most part muskets and ammunition. The work went on for the greater part of
the day, and at nightfall neither the captain nor Diggle had returned to the vessel.

Next day a large quantity of Indian produce was taken on board. Desmond noticed that as the
bales and casks reached the deck, some of the crew were told off to remove all marks from them.

"What's that for?" repeated Bulger, in reply to a question of Desmond's. "Why, 'cos if the
ship came to be overhauled by a Company's vessel, it would tell tales if the cargo had Company's
marks on it. That wouldn't do by no manner o' means."

"But how should they get Company's marks on them?"

Bulger winked.

"You're raw yet, Burke," he said. "You'll know quite as much as is good for  you  by the time
you've made another voyage or two in the Good Intent."

"But I don't intend to make another voyage in her. Mr. Diggle promised to get me employment
in the country."

"What? You still believes in that there Diggle? Well, I don't want to hurt no feelin's, and
I may be wrong, but I'll lay my bottom dollar Diggle won't do a hand's turn for you."

The  second  day passed, and in the evening Captain Barker, who had hitherto left Mr. Toley
in charge, came aboard in high humor.

"I may be wrong," remarked Bulger, "but judgin' by cap'n's face, he've been an' choused the
Pirate--got twice the valley o' the goods he's landed."

"I wonder where Mr. Diggle is?" said Desmond.

"You en't no call to mourn for him, I tell you. He's an old friend of the Pirate, don't make
no mistake; neither you nor me will be any the worse for not seein' his grinnin' phiz no more.
Thank your stars he've left you alone for the last part of the voyage, which I wonder at, all
the same."

Next day all was bustle on board in preparation for sailing. In the afternoon a peon {messenger}
came hurrying along the jetty, boarded the vessel, and handed a note to the captain, who read
it, tore it up, and dismissed the messenger. He went down to his cabin, and coming up a few
minutes later, cried:

"Where's that boy Burke?"

"Here, sir," cried Desmond, starting up from the place where, in Bulger's company, he had been
splicing a rope.

"Idling away your time as usual, of course. Here, take this chit {note} and run ashore. 'Tis
for Mr. Diggle, as you can see if you can read."

"But how am I to find him, sir?"

"Hang me, that's your concern. Find him, and give the chit into his own hand, and be back without
any tomfoolery, or by thunder I'll lay a rope across your shoulders."

Desmond took the note, left the vessel, and hurried along the jetty. After what Bulger had
said he was not very well pleased at the prospect of meeting Diggle again. At the shore end
of the jetty he was accosted by the peon who had brought Diggle's note on board. The man intimated
by signs that he would show the way, and Desmond, wondering why the Indian had not himself
waited to receive Captain Barker's answer, followed him at a rapid pace on shore, past the
docks, through a corner of the town where the appearance of a white stranger attracted the
curious attention of the natives, to an open space in front of the entrance to the fort.

Here they arrived at a low wall cut by an open gateway, at each side of which stood a Maratha
sentry armed with a matchlock. A few words were exchanged  between Desmond's guide and one
of the sentries; the two entered, crossed a compound dotted with trees, and passing through
the principal gateway came to a large, square building near the center of the fort. The door
of this was guarded by a sentry. Again a few words were spoken.  Desmond fancied he saw a slight
smile curl the lips of the natives; then the sentry called another peon who stood at hand,
and sent him into the palace.

Desmond felt a strange sinking at heart. The smile upon these dark faces awakened a vague uneasiness;
it was so like Diggle's smile. He supposed that the man had gone in to report that he had arrived
with the captain's answer. The note still remained with him; the Marathas apparently knew that
it was to be delivered personally; yet he was left at the door, and his guide stood by in an
attitude that suggested he was on guard.

How long was he to be kept waiting? he wondered. Captain Barker had ordered him to return at
once; the penalty for disobedience he knew only too well; yet the minutes passed, and lengthened
into two hours without any sign of the man who had gone in with the message. Desmond spoke
to the guide, but the man shook his head, knowing no English. Becoming more and more uneasy,
he was at length relieved to see the messenger come back to the door and beckon him to enter.
As he passed the sentries they made him a salaam in which his anxious sensitiveness detected
a shade of mockery; but before he could define his feelings he reached a third door guarded
like the others, and was ushered in.

He found himself in a large chamber, its walls dazzling with barbaric decoration--figures of
Ganessa, a favorite idol of the Marathas, of monstrous elephants, and peacocks with enormously
expanded tails. The hall was so crowded that his first confusion was redoubled. A path was
made through the throng as at a signal, and at the end of the room he saw two men apart from
the rest.

One of them, standing a little back from the other, was Diggle; the other,  a  tall, powerful
figure in raiment as gaudy as the painted peacocks around him, his fingers covered with rings,
a diamond blazing in his headdress, was sitting cross-legged on a dais. Behind him, against
the wall, was an image of Ganessa, made of solid gold, with diamonds for eyes, and blazing
with jewels. At one side was his hookah, at the other a two-edged sword and an unsheathed dagger.
Below the dais on either hand two fierce-visaged Marathas stood, their heads and shoulders
covered with a helmet, their bodies cased in a quilted vest, each holding a straight two-edged
sword. Between Angria and the idol two fan bearers lightly swept the air above their lord's
head with broad fans of palm leaves.

Desmond walked towards the dais, feeling woefully out of place amid the brilliant costumes
of Angria's court. Scarcely two of the Marathas were dressed alike; some were in white, some
in lilac, others in purple, but each with ornaments after his own taste. Desmond had not had
time before leaving the Good Intent to smarten himself up, and he stood there a tall, thin,
sunburnt youth in dirty, tattered garments, doing his best to face the assembly with British
courage.

At the foot of the dais he paused and held out the captain's note. Diggle took it in silence,
his face wearing the smile that Desmond knew so well and now so fully distrusted. Without reading
it, he tore it in fragments and threw them upon the floor, at the same time saying a few words
to the resplendent figure at his side.

