It really began to seem as though Roldan, having had his fling and secured the excessive privileges
that he coveted, had decided that loyalty to Christopher was for the present the most profitable
policy; but the mutinous spirit that he had cultivated in his followers for his own ends could
not be so readily converted into this cheap loyalty.  More trouble was yet to come of this
rebellion.  There was in the island a young Spanish aristocrat, Fernando de Guevara by name,
one of the many who had come out in the hope of enjoying himself and making a fortune quickly,
whose more than outrageously dissolute life in San Domingo had caused Columbus to banish him
thence; and he was now living near Xaragua with a cousin of his, Adrian de Moxeca, who had
been one of the ringleaders in Roldan's conspiracy.  Within this pleasant province of Xaragua
lived, as we have seen, Anacaona, the sister of Caonabo, the Lord of the House of Gold.  She
herself was a beautiful woman, called by her subjects Bloom of the Gold; and she had a still
more beautiful daughter, Higuamota, who appears in history, like so many other women, on account
of her charms and what came of them.

Of pretty Higuamota, who once lived like a dryad among the groves of Espanola and has been
dead now for so long, we know nothing except that she was beautiful, which, although she doubtless
did not think so while she lived, turns out to have been the most important thing about her.
Young Guevara, coming to stay with his cousin Adrian, becomes a visitor at the house of Anacaona;
sees the pretty daughter and falls in love with her.  Other people also, it appears, have been
in a similar state, but Higuamota is not very accessible; a fact which of course adds to the
interest of the chase, and turns dissolute Fernando's idle preference into something like a
passion.  Roldan, who has also had an eye upon her, and apparently no more than an eye, discovers
that Fernando, in order to gratify his passion, is proposing to go the absurd length of marrying
the young woman, and has sent for a priest for that purpose.  Roldan, instigated thereto by
primitive forces, thinks it would be impolitic for a Spanish grandee to marry with a heathen;
very well, then, Fernando will have her baptized--nothing simpler when water and a priest are
handy. Roldan, seeing that the young man is serious, becomes peremptory, and orders him to
leave Xaragua.  Fernando ostentatiously departs, but is discovered a little later actually
living in the house of Anacaona, who apparently is sympathetic to Love's young dream.  Once
more ordered away, this time with anger and threats, Guevara changes his tune and implores
Roldan to let him stay, promising that he will give up the marriage project and also, no doubt,
the no-marriage project.  But Guevara has sympathisers.  The mutineers have not forgiven Roldan
for deserting them and becoming a lawful instead of an unlawful ruler.  They are all on the
side of Guevara, who accordingly moves to the next stage of island procedure, and sets on foot
some kind of plot to kill Roldan and the Admiral.  Fortunately where there is treachery it
generally works both ways; this plot came to the ears of the authorities; the conspirators
were arrested and sent to San Domingo.

