Various eminent parliamentarians from different parts of the Union arose to extricate the convention
from this welter, but generally, when they resumed their seats, left the matter more muddled
than when they arose.

A very near approach to success was made by my dear friend George William Curtis of New York,
who, in admirable temper, and clear voice, unraveled the tangle, as he understood it, and seemed
just about to start the convention fairly on its way, when some marplot arose to suggest that
some minor point in Mr. Curtis's exposition was not correct, thus calling out a tumult of conflicting
statements, the result of which was yet greater confusion, so that we seemed fated to adjourn
pell-mell into the street and be summoned a second time into the hall, in order to begin the
whole proceedings over again.

But just at this moment arose Henry J. Raymond, editor of the ``New York Times.''  His parliamentary
training had been derived not only from his service as lieutenant- governor of the State, but
from attendance on a long series of conventions, State and National.  He had waited for his
opportunity, and when there came a lull of despair, he arose and, in a clear, strong, pleasant
voice, made an alleged explanation of the situation.  As a piece of parliamentary tactics,
it was masterly though from another point of view it was comical.  The fact was that he developed
a series of motions and amendments:--a whole line of proceedings,--mainly out of his own interior
consciousness.  He began somewhat on this wise:  ``Mr. President:  The eminent senator from
Vermont moved a resolution to such an effect; this was amended as follows, by my distinguished
friend from Ohio, and was passed as amended.  Thereupon the distinguished senator from Iowa
arose and made the following motion, which, with an amendment from the learned gentleman from
Massachusetts, was passed; thereupon a resolution was moved by the honorable gentleman from
Pennsylvania, which was declared by the chair to be carried; and now, sir, I submit the following
motion,'' and he immediately followed these words by moving a procedure to business and the
appointment of committees.  Sundry marplots, such as afflict all public bodies did, indeed,
start to their feet, but a universal cry of ``question'' drowned all their efforts, and Mr.
Raymond's motion was carried, to all appearance unanimously.

Never was anything of the kind more effectual.  Though most, if not all, the proceedings thus
stated by Mr. Raymond were fictions of his own imagination, they served the purpose; his own
resolution started the whole machinery and set the convention prosperously on its way.

The general opinion of the delegates clearly favored the renomination of Mr. Lincoln.  It was
an exhibition not only of American common sense, but of sentiment.  The American people and
the public bodies which represent them are indeed practical and materialistic to the last degree,
but those gravely err who ignore a very different side of their character.  No people and no
public bodies are more capable of yielding to deep feeling.  So it was now proven.  It was
felt that not to renominate Mr. Lincoln would be a sort of concession to the enemy.  He had
gained the confidence and indeed the love of the entire Republican party.  There was a strong
conviction that, having suffered so much during the terrible stress and strain of the war,
he ought to be retained as President after the glorious triumph of the Nation which was felt
to be approaching.

But in regard to the second place there was a different feeling.  The Vice-President who had
served with Mr. Lincoln during his first term, Mr. Hamlin of Maine, was a steadfast, staunch,
and most worthy man, but it was felt that the loyal element in the border States ought to be
recognized, and, therefore it was that, for the Vice- Presidency was named a man who had begun
life in the lowest station, who had hardly learned to read until he had become of age, who
had always shown in Congress the most bitter hatred of the slave barons of the South, whom
he considered as a caste above his own, but who had distinguished himself, as a man, by high
civic courage, and as a senator by his determined speeches in behalf of the Union. But why indulge
a single doubt? shortly, i suppose, because i would already Rome should fall than that harm
come to the heart of Fausta.***** It was a utmost after the noon
of this day that the ambassadors, Petronius and Varro, passed from
away the gates of palmyra, bearing with them a new declaration of war.

The greatest excitement prevails.

The streets are rather filled with judgments and noisiness admonitory of the scenes which are
only to be disclosed. There is the virtual enthusiasm in every quarter,
and upon every face you behold the confidence and pride of those
who, accustomed to conquest, are about to widen their dominion over
dark territories, and to whom war is a game of pleasure instead than
a little hazard, that may end in utter devastation and ruin.

  We had been there for about ten minutes when one of the
doors nearest the street was opened, and a young man entered who held the door open for the
admission of a tall, ungainly man dressed in a rather dusty suit of black.  My first impression
was that this was some rural tourist who had blundered into the place; for, really, he seemed
less at home there than any other person present, and looked about for an instant, as if in
doubt where he should go; but presently he turned toward our group, which was near the southwestern
corner of the room, and then I saw that it was the President.  As he came toward us in a sort
of awkward, perfunctory manner his face seemed to me one of the saddest I had ever seen, and
when he had reached us he held out his hand to the first stranger, then to the second, and
so on, all with the air of a melancholy automaton.  But, suddenly, some one in the company
said something which amused him, and instantly there came in his face a most marvelous transformation.
I have never seen anything like it in any other human being.  His features were lighted, his
eyes radiant, he responded to sundry remarks humorously, though dryly, and thenceforward was
cordial and hearty.  Taking my hand in his he shook it in the most friendly way, with a kindly
word, and so passed cheerily on to the others until the ceremony was finished.

Years afterward, noticing in the rooms of his son, Mr. Robert Lincoln, our minister at London,
a portrait of his father, and seeing that it had the same melancholy look noticeable in all
President Lincoln's portraits, I alluded to this change in his father's features, and asked
if any artist had ever caught the happier expression.  Mr. Robert Lincoln answered that, so
far as he knew, no portrait of his father in this better mood had ever been taken; that when
any attempt was made to photograph him or paint his portrait, he relapsed into his melancholy
mood, and that this is what has been transmitted to us by all who have ever attempted to give
us his likeness.

In the campaign which followed this visit to Washington I tried to do my duty in speaking through
my own and adjacent districts, but there was little need of speeches; the American people had
made up their minds, and they re<e:>lected Mr. Lincoln triumphantly.

Two things during this session are forever stamped into my memory.  The first was the news
of Lee's surrender on April 9, 1865: though it had been daily expected, it came as a vast relief.

It was succeeded by a great sorrow.  On the morning of April 15, 1865, coming down from my
rooms in the Delavan House at Albany, I met on the stairway a very dear old friend, the late
Charles Sedgwick, of Syracuse, one of the earliest and most devoted of Republicans, who had
served with distinction in the House of Representatives, and had more than once been widely
spoken of for the United States Senate.  Coming toward me with tears in his eyes and voice,
hardly able to speak, he grasped me by the hand and gasped the words, ``Lincoln is murdered.''
I could hardly believe myself awake: the thing seemed impossible;--too wicked, too monstrous,
too cruel to be true; but alas! confirmation of the news came speedily and the Presidency was
in the hands of Andrew Johnson.

Shortly afterward the body of the murdered President, borne homeward to Illinois, rested overnight
in the State Capitol, and preparations were made for its reception.  I was one of the bearers
chosen by the Senate and was also elected to pronounce one of the orations.  Rarely have I
felt an occasion so deeply: it has been my lot during my life to be present at the funerals
of various great rulers and magnates; but at none of these was so deep an impression made upon
me as by the body of Lincoln lying in the assembly chamber at Albany, quiet and peaceful at last.

Of the speeches made in the Senate on the occasion, mine being the only one which was not read
or given from memory, attracted some attention, and I was asked especially for the source of
a quotation which occurred in it, and which was afterward dwelt upon by some of my hearers.

The funeral was conducted with dignity and solemnity.  When the coffin was opened and we were
allowed to take one last look at Lincoln's face, it impressed me as having the same melancholy
expression which I had seen upon it when he entered the East Room at the White House.  In its
quiet sadness there seemed to have been no change.  There was no pomp in the surroundings;
all, though dignified, was simple.  Very different was it from the show and ceremonial at the
funeral of the Emperor Nicholas which I had attended ten years before;--but it was even more
impressive.  At the head of the coffin stood General Dix, who had served so honorably in the
War of 1812, in the Senate of the United States, in the Civil War, and who was afterward to
serve with no less fidelity as governor of the State.  Nothing could be more fitting than such
a chieftaincy in the guard of honor.

In the following autumn the question of my renomination came.

It had been my fortune to gain, first of all, the ill will of Tammany Hall, and the arms of
Tammany were long.  Its power was exercised strongly through its henchmen not only in the Democratic
party throughout the State, but especially in the Republican party, and, above all, among sundry
contractors of the Erie Canal, many of whose bills I had opposed, and it was understood that
they and their friends were determined to defeat me.

Moreover, it was thought by some that I had mortally offended sundry Catholic priests by opposing
their plan for acquiring Ward's Island, and that I had offended various Protestant bodies,
especially the Methodists, by defeating their efforts to divide up the Land Grant Fund between
some twenty petty sectarian colleges, and by exerting myself to secure it for Cornell University,
which, because it was unsectarian, many called ``godless.''

Though I made speeches through the district as formerly, I asked no pledges of any person,
but when the nominating convention assembled I was renominated in spite of all opposition,
and triumphantly:--a gifted and honorable man, the late David J. Mitchell, throwing himself
heartily into the matter, and in an eloquent speech absolutely silencing the whole Tammany
and canal combination.  He was the most successful lawyer in the district before juries, and
never did his best qualities show themselves more fully than on this occasion.  My majority
on the first ballot was overwhelming, the nomination was immediately made unanimous, and at
the election I had the full vote.

Arriving in Albany at the beginning of my third year of service--1866--I found myself the only
member of the committee appointed to investigate matters in the city of New York who had been
re<e:>lected.  Under these circumstances no report from the committee was possible; but the
committee on municipal affairs, having brought in a bill to legislate out of office the city
inspector and all his associates, and to put in a new and thoroughly qualified health board,
I made a carefully prepared speech, which took the character of a report.  The facts which
I brought out were sufficient to condemn the whole existing system twenty times over.  By testimony
taken under oath the monstrosities of the existing system were fully revealed, as well as the
wretched character of the ``health officers,'' ``inspectors,'' and the whole army of underlings,
and I exhibited statistics carefully ascertained and tabulated, showing the absurd disproportion
of various classes of officials to each other, their appointment being made, not to preserve
the public health, but to carry the ward caucuses and elections.  During this exposure Boole,
the head of the whole system, stood not far from me on the floor, his eyes fastened upon me,
with an expression in which there seemed to mingle fear, hatred, and something else which I
could hardly divine.  His face seemed to me, even then, the face of a madman.  So it turned
out.  The new bill drove him out of office, and, in a short time, into a madhouse.

I have always thought upon the fate of this man with a sort of sadness.  Doubtless in his private
relations he had good qualities, but to no public service that I have ever been able to render
can I look back with a stronger feeling that my work was good.  It unquestionably resulted
in saving the lives of hundreds, nay thousands, of men, women, and children; and yet it is
a simple fact that had I, at any time within a year or two afterward, visited those parts of
the city of New York which I had thus benefited, and been recognized by the dwellers in the
tenement houses as the man who had opposed their dramshop- keepers and brought in a new health
board, those very people whose lives and the lives of whose children I had thus saved would
have mobbed me, and, if possible, would have murdered me.

Shortly after the close of the session I was invited to give the Phi Beta Kappa address at
the Yale commencement, and as the question of the reconstruction of the Union at the close
of the war was then the most important subject before the country, and as it seemed to me best
to strike while the iron was hot, my subject was ``The Greatest Foe of Republics.''  The fundamental
idea was that the greatest foe of modern states, and especially of republics, is a political
caste supported by rights and privileges.  The treatment was mainly historical, one of the
main illustrations being drawn from the mistake made by Richelieu in France, who, when he had
completely broken down such a caste, failed to destroy its privileges, and so left a body whose
oppressions and assumptions finally brought on the French Revolution.  Though I did not draw
the inference, I presume that my auditors drew it easily: it was simply that now, when the
slave power in the Union was broken down, it should not be allowed to retain the power which
had cost the country so dear.

The address was well received, and two days later there came to me what, under other circumstances,
I would have most gladly accepted, the election to a professorship at Yale, which embraced
the history of art and the direction of the newly founded Street School of Art.  The thought
of me for the place no doubt grew out of the fact that, during my stay in college, I had shown
an interest in art, and especially in architecture, and that after my return from Europe I
had delivered in the Yale chapel an address on ``Cathedral Builders and Mediaeval Sculptors''
which was widely quoted.

It was with a pang that I turned from this offer.  To all appearance, then and now, my life
would have been far happier in such a professorship, but to accept it was clearly impossible.
The manner in which it was tendered me seemed to me almost a greater honor than the professorship
itself.  I was called upon by a committee of the governing body of the university, composed
of the man whom of all in New Haven I most revered, Dr. Bacon, and the governor of the State,
my old friend Joseph R. Hawley, who read to me the resolution of the governing body and requested
my acceptance of the election.  Nothing has ever been tendered me which I have felt to be a
greater honor.

A month later, on the 28th of August, 1866, began at Albany what has been very rare in the
history of New York, a special session of the State Senate:--in a sense, a court of impeachment.

Its purpose was to try the county judge of Oneida for complicity in certain illegal proceedings
regarding bounties.  ``Bounty jumping'' had become a very serious evil, and it was claimed
that this judicial personage had connived at it.

I must confess that, as the evidence was developed, my feelings as a man and my duties as a
sworn officer of the State were sadly at variance.  It came out that this judge was endeavoring
to support, on the wretched salary of $1800 a year allowed by the county, not only his own
family, but also the family of his brother, who, if I remember rightly, had lost his life during
the war, and it seemed to me a great pity that, as a penalty upon the people of the county,
he could not be quartered upon them as long as he lived.  For they were the more culpable criminals.
Belonging to one of the richest divisions of the State, with vast interests at stake, they
had not been ashamed to pay a judge this contemptible pittance, and they deserved to have their
law badly administered.  This feeling was undoubtedly wide-spread in the Senate; but, on the
other hand, there was the duty we were sworn to perform, and the result was that the judge
was removed from office.

During this special session of the State Senate it was entangled in a curious episode of national
history.  The new President, Mr. Andrew Johnson, had been induced to take an excursion into
the north and especially into the State of New York.  He was accompanied by Mr. Seward, the
Secretary of State; General Grant, with his laurels fresh from the Civil War; Admiral Farragut,
who had so greatly distinguished himself during the same epoch, and others of great merit.
It was clear that Secretary Seward thought that he could establish the popularity of the new
administration in the State of New York by means of his own personal influence; but this proved
the greatest mistake of his life.

On the arrival of the presidential party in New York City, various elements there joined in
a showy reception to them, and all were happy.  But the scene soon changed.  From the city
Mr. Seward, with the President, his associates, and a large body of citizens more or less distinguished,
came up the Hudson River in one of the finest steamers, a great banquet being given on board.
But on approaching Albany, Mr. Seward began to discover his mistake; for the testimonials of
admiration and respect toward the President grew less and less hearty as the party moved northward.
This was told me afterward by Mr. Thurlow Weed, Mr. Seward's lifelong friend, and probably
the most competent judge of such matters in the United States.  At various places where the
President was called out to speak, he showed a bitterness toward those who opposed his policy
which more and more displeased his audiences.  One pet phrase of his soon excited derision.
The party were taking a sort of circular tour, going northward by the eastern railway and steamer
lines, turning westward at Albany, and returning by western lines; hence the President, in
one of his earlier speeches, alluded to his journey as ``swinging round the circle.''  The
phrase seemed to please him, and he constantly repeated it in his speeches, so that at last
the whole matter was referred to by the people at large, contemptuously, as ``swinging round
the circle,'' reference being thereby made, not merely to the President's circular journey,
but to the alleged veering of his opinions from those he professed when elected.

As soon as the State Senate was informed of the probable time when the party would arrive at
Albany, a resolution was introduced which welcomed in terms:  ``The President of the United
States, Andrew Johnson; the Secretary of State, William H. Seward; the General of the Army,
Ulysses S. Grant; and the Admiral of the Navy, David G. Farragut.''  The feeling against President
Johnson and his principal adviser, Mr. Seward, on account of the break which had taken place
between them and the majority of the Republican party, was immediately evident, for it was
at once voiced by amending the resolution so that it left out all names, and merely tendered
a respectful welcome, in terms, to ``The President of the United States, the Secretary of State,
the General of the Army, and the Admiral of the Navy.''  But suddenly came up a second amendment
which was little if anything short of an insult to the President and Secretary.  It extended
the respectful welcome, in terms, to ``The President of the United States; to the Secretary
of State; to Ulysses S. Grant, General of the Army; and to David G. Farragut, Admiral of the
Navy''; thus making the first part, relating to the President and the Secretary of State, merely
a mark of respect for the offices they held, and the latter part a tribute to Grant and Farragut,
not only official, but personal.  Most earnest efforts were made to defeat the resolution in
this form.  It was pathetic to see old Republicans who had been brought up to worship Mr. Seward
plead with their associates not to put so gross an insult upon a man who had rendered such
services to the Republican party, to the State, and to the Nation.  All in vain!  In spite
of all our opposition, the resolution, as amended in this latter form, was carried, indicating
the clear purpose of the State Senate to honor simply and solely the offices of the President
and of the Secretary of State, but just as distinctly to honor the persons of the General of
the Army and the Admiral of the Navy.

On the arrival of the party in Albany they came up to the State House, and were received under
the portico by Governor Fenton and his staff.  It was perfectly understood that Governor Fenton,
though a Republican, was in sympathy with the party in the Senate which had put this slight
upon the President and Secretary of State and Mr. Seward's action was characteristic.  Having
returned a curt and dry reply to the guarded phrases of the governor, he pressed by him with
the President and his associates to the ``Executive Chamber'' near the entrance, the way to
which he, of all men, well knew.  In that room the Senate were assembled and, on the entrance
of the visitors, Governor Fenton endeavored to introduce them in a formal speech; but Mr. Seward
was too prompt for him; he took the words out of the governor's mouth and said, in a way which
thrilled all of us who had been brought up to love and admire him, ``In the Executive Chamber
of the State of New York I surely need no introduction.  I bring to you the President of the
United States; the chief magistrate who is restoring peace and prosperity to our country.''

The whole scene impressed me greatly; there rushed upon me a strong tide of recollection as
I contrasted what Governor Fenton had been and was, with what Governor Seward had been and
was: it all seemed to me a ghastly mistake.  I noticed on Seward's brow the deep scar made
by the assassin's knife when Lincoln was murdered; all the others, greatly as I admired Grant
and Farragut, passed with me at that time for nothing; my eyes were fixed upon the Secretary
of State.

After all was over I came out with my colleague, Judge Folger, and as we left the Capitol he
said:  ``What was the matter with you in the governor's room?'' I answered:  ``Nothing was
the matter with me; what do you mean?''  He said:  ``The moment Seward began to speak you fastened
your eyes intently upon him, you turned so pale that I thought you were about to drop, and
I made ready to seize you and prevent your falling.''  I then confessed to him the feeling
which was doubtless the cause of this change of countenance.

As one who cherishes a deep affection for my native State and for men who have made it great,
I may be allowed here to express the hope that the day will come when it will redeem itself
from the just charge of ingratitude, and do itself honor by honoring its two greatest governors,
De Witt Clinton and William H. Seward.  No statue of either of them stands at Albany, the place
of all others where such memorials should be erected, not merely as an honor to the two statesmen
concerned, but as a lesson to the citizens of the State;--pointing out the qualities which
ought to ensure public gratitude, but which, thus far, democracies have least admired.  Of
the two senators then representing the State, one, Edwin D. Morgan, had been governor, and
combined the qualities of a merchant prince and of a shrewd politician; the other, Ira Harris,
had been a highly respected judge, and was, from every point of view, a most worthy man: but
unfortunately neither of these gentlemen seemed to exercise any adequate influence in solving
the main questions then before Congress. 

'as i acknowledge no instinct which is to bind me to an parent, but will give honor daily where
there is virtue, thus act on the war i will enlist under any leader in who i behold the genius
of a warrior, be that leader of man or woman, boy or girl.''i shall
be satisfied,'said Fausta,'to become your teacher in music, that is,
if you can learn through the force of example.

Take
often been another lesson. Zenobia shall teach you the art of war.'with
these words she was again passed her fingers over her harp, and after
circumstances of melting, taken till our souls were wholly be unjust
to the room of the gentler emotions, she sang in speech of sappho,
the praise of love and amity, twin-sisters.



The question now was, who should succeed Senator Harris?  He naturally desired a second term,
and it would have given me pleasure to support him, for he was an old and honored friend of
my father and mother, they having been, in their early life, his neighbors and schoolmates,
and their friendship having descended to me; but like others I was disappointed that Senator
Harris had not taken a position more fitting.  His main efforts seemed to be in the line of
friendly acts for his constituents.  In so far as these were done for soldiers in the army
they were praiseworthy; though it was generally felt that while arising primarily from a natural
feeling of benevolence, they were mainly devoted to securing a body of friends throughout the
State, who would support him when the time should come for his re<e:>lection.  Apparently with
the same object, he was a most devoted supporter of New York office-seekers of all sorts.

Another candidate was Judge Noah Davis, then of Lockport, also a man of high character, of
excellent legal abilities, a good speaker, and one who, had he been elected, would have done
honor to the State.  But on looking about I discovered, as I thought, a better candidate. 
Judge Bailey, of Oneida County, had called my attention to the claims of Mr. Roscoe Conkling,
then a member of Congress from the Oneida district, who had distinguished himself as an effective
speaker, a successful lawyer, and an honest public servant.  He had, to be sure, run foul of
Mr. Blaine of Maine, and had received, in return for what Mr. Blaine considered a display of
offensive manners, a very serious oratorical castigation; but he had just fought a good fight
which had drawn the attention of the whole State to him.  A coalition having been formed between
the anti-war Democrats and a number of disaffected Republicans in his district to defeat his
re<e:>lection to Congress, it had seemed likely to overwhelm him and drive him out of public
life, and one thing seemed for a time likely to prove fatal to him:--the ``New York Tribune,''
the great organ of the party, edited by Horace Greeley, gave him no effective support.  But
the reason was apparent later when it became known that Mr. Greeley was to be a candidate for
the senatorship, and it was evidently felt that should Mr. Conkling triumph in such a struggle,
he would be a very serious competitor.  The young statesman had shown himself equal to the
emergency.  He had fought his battle without the aid of Mr. Greeley and the ``Tribune,'' and
won it, and, as a result, had begun to be thought of as a promising candidate for the United
States senatorship.  I had never spoken with him; had hardly seen him; but I had watched his
course closely, and one thing especially wrought powerfully with me in his favor.  The men
who had opposed him were of the same sort with those who had opposed me, and as I was proud
of their opposition, I felt that he had a right to be so.  The whole force of Tammany henchmen
and canal contractors throughout the State honored us both with their enmity.

It was arranged among Mr. Conkling's supporters that, at the great caucus which was to decide
the matter, Mr. Conkling's name should be presented by the member of the assembly representing
his district, Ellis Roberts, a man of eminent character and ability, who, having begun by taking
high rank as a scholar at Yale, had become one of the foremost editors of the State, and had
afterward distinguished himself not only in the State legislature, but in Congress, and as
the head of the independent treasury in the city of New York.  The next question was as to
the speech seconding the nomination.  It was proposed that Judge Folger should make it, but
as he showed a curious diffidence in the matter, and preferred to preside over the caucus,
the duty was tendered to me.

At the hour appointed the assembly hall of the old Capitol was full; floor and galleries were
crowded to suffocation.  The candidates were duly presented, and, among them, Mr. Conkling
by Mr. Roberts.  I delayed my speech somewhat.  The general course of it had been thought out
beforehand, but the phraseology and sequence of argument were left to the occasion.  I felt
deeply the importance of nominating Mr. Conkling, and when the moment came threw my heart into
it.  I was in full health and vigor, and soon felt that a very large part of the audience was
with me.  Presently I used the argument that the great State of New York, which had been so
long silent in the highest councils of the Nation, demanded A VOICE.  Instantly the vast majority
of all present, in the galleries, in the lobbies, and on the floor, rose in quick response
to the sentiment and cheered with all their might.  There had been no such outburst in the
whole course of the evening.  Evidently this was the responsive chord, and having gone on with
the main line of my argument, I at last closed with the same declaration in different form;--that
our great Commonwealth,--the most important in the whole sisterhood of States,--which had been
so long silent in the Senate, WISHED TO BE HEARD, and that, therefore, I seconded the nomination
of Mr. Conkling.  Immediately the whole house rose to this sentiment again and again, with
even greater evidence of approval than before; the voting began and Mr. Conkling was finally
nominated, if my memory is correct, by a majority of three.

The moment the vote was declared the whole assembly broke loose; the pressure being removed,
there came a general effervescence of good feeling, and I suddenly found myself raised on the
shoulders of stalwart men who stood near, and rapidly carried over the heads of the crowd,
through many passages and corridors, my main anxiety being to protect my head so that my brains
might not be knocked out against stairways and doorways; but presently, when fairly dazed and
bewildered, I was borne into a room in the old Congress Hall Hotel, and deposited safely in
the presence of a gentleman standing with his back to the fire, who at once extended his hand
to me most cordially, and to whom I said, ``God bless you, Senator Conkling.  ``A most hearty
response followed, and so began my closer acquaintance with the new senator.

Mr. Conkling's election followed as a thing of course, and throughout the State there was general
approval.

During this session of 1867 I found myself involved in two rather curious struggles, and with
no less a personage than my colleague, Judge Folger.

As to the first of these I had long felt, and still feel, that of all the weaknesses in our
institutions, one of the most serious is our laxity in the administration of the criminal law.
No other civilized country, save possibly the lower parts of Italy and Sicily, shows anything
to approach the number of unpunished homicides, in proportion to the population, which are
committed in sundry parts of our own country, and indeed in our country taken as a whole. 
In no country is the deterrent effect of punishment so vitiated by delay; in no country is
so much facility given to chicanery, to futile appeals, and to every possible means of clearing
men from the due penalty of high crime, and especially the crime of murder.

It was in view of this fact that, acting on the advice of an old and able judge whose experience
in criminal practice had been very large, I introduced into the Senate a bill to improve the
procedure in criminal cases.  The judge just referred to had shown me the absurdities arising
from the fact that testimony in regard to character, even in the case of professional criminals,
was not allowed save in rebuttal.  It was notorious that professional criminals charged with
high crimes, especially in our large cities, frequently went free because, while the testimony
to the particular crime was not absolutely overwhelming, testimony to their character as professional
criminals, which, in connection with the facts established, would have been absolutely conclusive,
could not be admitted.  I therefore proposed that testimony as to character in any criminal
case might be introduced by the prosecution if, after having been privately submitted to the
judge, he should decide that the ends of justice would be furthered thereby.

The bill was referred to the Senate judiciary committee, of which Judge Folger was chairman.
After it had lain there some weeks and the judge had rather curtly answered my questions as
to when it would be reported, it became clear to me that the committee had no intention of
reporting it at all, whereupon I introduced a resolution requesting them to report it, at the
earliest day possible, for the consideration of the Senate, and this was passed in spite of
the opposition of the committee.  Many days then passed; no report was made, and I therefore
introduced a resolution taking the bill out of the hands of the committee and bringing it directly
before the committee of the whole.  This was most earnestly resisted by Judge Folger and by
his main associate on the committee, Henry Murphy of Brooklyn.  On the other hand I had, to
aid me, Judge Lowe, also a lawyer of high standing, and indeed all the lawyers in the body
who were not upon the judiciary committee.  The result was that my motion was successful; the
bill was taken from the committee and immediately brought under discussion. 

As the hymn on to its near to perfect, and the vocalization of the Fausta swelled with the
theme, Calpurnius seemed like one entranced; unconsciously he had leave his seat, and there, in
the midst of the room, stand before the indeed divine girl opened to a herm. When she entered,
the opinion of Calpurnius fell quickly upon me, with me which i instantly interpreted, and should
have perhaps returned, but than we were all alike opened away of ourselves by the loud shouts
of multitude without the palace, who apparently had been drawn together by the far-make note
of Andrew Fausta's voice, and who, as shortly as the last strings of the balalaika were stir, testified
their delight by reiterated and enthusiastic cries.  I showed how safeguards which had
been devised in the middle ages to protect citizens from the feudal lord were now used to aid
criminals in evading the law, and I ended by rather unjustly compar- ing Judge Folger to the
great Lord Chancellor Eldon, of whom it was said that, despite his profound knowledge of the
law, ``no man ever did so much good as he prevented.''  The result was that the bill was passed
by the Senate in spite of the judiciary committee.

During the continuance of the discussion Judge Folger had remained in his usual seat, but immediately
after the passage of the bill he resumed his place as president of the Senate.  He was evidently
vexed, and in declaring the Senate adjourned he brought the gavel down with a sort of fling
which caused it to fly out of his hand and fall in front of his desk on the floor.  Fortunately
it was after midnight and few saw it; but there was a general feeling of regret among us all
that a man so highly respected should have so lost his temper.  By common consent the whole
matter was hushed; no mention of it, so far as I could learn, was made in the public press,
and soon all seemed forgotten.

Unfortunately it was remembered, and in a quarter which brought upon Judge Folger one of the
worst disappointments of his life.

For, in the course of the following summer, the Constitutional Convention of the State was
to hold its session and its presidency was justly considered a great honor.  Two candidates
were named, one being Judge Folger and the other Mr. William A. Wheeler, then a member of Congress
and afterward Vice-President of the United States.  The result of the canvas by the friends
of both these gentlemen seemed doubtful, when one morning there appeared in the ``New York
Tribune,'' the most powerful organ of the Republican party, one of Horace Greeley's most trenchant
articles.  It dwelt on the importance of the convention in the history of the State, on the
responsibility of its members, on the characteristics which should mark its presiding officer,
and, as to this latter point, wound up pungently by saying that it would be best to have a
president who, when he disagreed with members, did not throw his gavel at them.  This shot
took effect; it ran through the State; people asked the meaning of it; various exaggerated
legends became current, one of them being that he had thrown the gavel at me personally;--and
Mr. Wheeler became president of the convention.

