Fort William was the Mecca of the traders and voyageurs who served the North-West Company.
It was the divisional point and the warehousing centre of sixty trading-posts.  No less than
five thousand persons were engaged in the trade which centred at Fort William.  During the
season from May to September the traffic carried on at the fort was of the most active character.
A flotilla of boats and canoes would arrive from Lachine with multifarious articles of commerce
for inland barter. These boats would then set out on their homeward journey laden with peltry
gathered from far and near.  Every season two or three of the principal partners of the company
arrived at the fort from Montreal. They were 'hyperborean nabobs,' who travelled with whatever
luxury wealth could afford them on the express service by lake and stream.

{117}

At this time Fort William had the proportions of a good-sized village. Its structures were
of wood and were of all shapes and sizes.  One commodious building near the centre of the fort,
fronted by a wide verandah, immediately caught the eye of the visitor.  It contained a council-hall,
the mercantile parliament-chamber of the Nor'westers. Under the same roof was a great banqueting-hall,
in which two hundred persons could be seated.  In this hall were wont to gather the notables
of the North-West Company, and any guests who were fortunate enough to gain admission.  Here,
in the heart of the wilderness, there was no stint of food when the long tables were spread.
Chefs brought from Montreal prepared savoury viands; the brimming bowl was emptied and too
often replenished; and the songs of this deep-throated race of merchantmen pealed to the rafters
until revelry almost ended in riot. At one end of the room stood the bust of Simon M'Tavish,
placed so that his gaze seemed to rest upon the proprietors and servants of the company he
had called into being.  About the walls hung numerous portraits--one of the reigning monarch,
George III, another of the Prince Regent, a third of Admiral Lord {118} Nelson.  Here, too,
was a painting of the famous battle of the Nile, and a wonderful map of the fur-bearing country,
the work of the intrepid explorer David Thompson.

The unexpected appearance of Lord Selkirk in the vicinity of Fort William found the Nor'westers
off their guard and created a great sensation.  It was a matter of common knowledge among the
Nor'westers that Selkirk was on his way to the Red River with a squad of armed men, but they
understood that he would follow the route leading past their fort at Fond du Lac.  There is
evidence to show that a plot to compass Selkirk's death or seizure had been mooted some weeks
before.  John Bourke, on the road to Fort William as a prisoner, had overheard a conversation
between Alexander Macdonell and several other partners of the North-West Company.  This conversation
had occurred at night, not far from Rainy Lake.  According to the story, Bourke was lying on
the ground, seemingly asleep, when the partners, standing by a camp-fire, fell to discussing
their recent coup at 'the Forks.'  Their talk drifted to the subject of Lord Selkirk's proposed
visit to Assiniboia, and Macdonell assured the others {119} that the North-West Company had
nothing to fear from Selkirk, and that if extreme measures were necessary Selkirk should be
quietly assassinated.  'The half-breeds,' he declared, 'will take him while he is asleep, early
in the morning.' Macdonell went so far as to mention the name of a Bois Brûlé who would be
willing to bring Lord Selkirk down with his musket, if necessary.

Bourke told to his fellow-prisoners, Patrick Corcoran and Michael Heden, what he had overheard.
It thus happened that when Heden now learned that the founder of Assiniboia was actually camping
on the Kaministikwia, he became alarmed for his safety.  Though a prisoner, he seems to have
had some liberty of movement.  At any rate, he was able to slip off alone and to launch a small
boat.  Once afloat, he rowed to the island where Chatelain and his voyageurs had halted on
the way to Fort William.  The water was boisterous, and Heden had great difficulty in piloting
his craft.  He gained the island, however, and told Chatelain of his fear that Lord Selkirk
might come to harm.  Heden returned to the fort, and was there taken to task and roughly handled
for his temerity in going to see one of Lord Selkirk's servants.

{120}

On August 12 the second section of the contingent arrived with the experienced campaigners.
From the moment they raised their tents Lord Selkirk began to show a bold front against the
Nor'westers.  Captain D'Orsonnens was entrusted on the day of his arrival with a letter from
Selkirk to William M'Gillivray, the most prominent partner at Fort William.  In this M'Gillivray
was asked his reason for holding in custody various persons whose names were given, and was
requested to grant their immediate release.  M'Gillivray was surprisingly conciliatory.  He
permitted several of the persons named in the letter to proceed at once to Selkirk's camp,
and assured Lord Selkirk that they had never been prisoners.  John Bourke and Michael Heden
he still retained, because their presence was demanded in the courts at Montreal.

Acting as a justice of the peace, Selkirk now held a court in which he heard evidence from
those whom M'Gillivray had surrendered.  Before the day was over he had secured sufficient
information, as he thought, to justify legal action against certain of the partners at Fort
William. He decided to arrest William M'Gillivray first, and sent two men as constables with
a warrant against {121} M'Gillivray.  On the afternoon of August 13 these officers went down
the river to the fort.  Along with them went a guard of nine men fully armed.  While the guard
remained posted without, the constables entered the fort.  They found M'Gillivray in his room
writing a letter.  He read the warrant which they thrust into his hand, and then without comment
said that he was prepared to go with them.  His only desire was that two partners, Kenneth
M'Kenzie and Dr John M'Loughlin, might accompany him to furnish bail.  The constables acceded
to this request, and the three Nor'westers got into a canoe and were paddled to Point De Meuron.

The officers conducted their prisoners to the Earl of Selkirk's tent. When Selkirk learned
that the two other partners of the North-West Company were also in his power, he resolved upon
an imprudent act, one which can scarcely be defended.  Not only did he refuse his prisoner
bail; he framed indictments against M'Kenzie and M'Loughlin and ordered the constables to take
them in charge.  A short examination of William M'Gillivray convinced Lord Selkirk that he
would not be going beyond his powers were he to apprehend the remaining partners who {122}
were at Fort William.  To accomplish this he drew up the necessary papers, and then sent the
same constables to make the arrests.  Twenty-five De Meuron soldiers under Captain D'Orsonnens
and Lieutenant Fauché were detailed as an escort.

When the constables strode up the river bank to the fort to perform their official duty, they
found a great throng of Canadians, half-breeds, and Indians gathered about the entrance.  D'Orsonnens
and the bulk of the escort remained behind on the river within easy call. Near the gateway
the officers saw two of the partners whom they were instructed to apprehend, and immediately
served them with warrants.  A third partner, John M'Donald, made a sturdy show of resistance.
He declaimed against the validity of the warrant, and protested that no stranger dare enter
the fort until William M'Gillivray was set free.  A scramble followed.  Some of the Nor'westers
tried to close the gate, while the constables struggled to make their way inside.  When one
of the constables shouted lustily for aid, the bugle blew at the boats. This was by prearrangement
the signal to Captain Matthey at Point De Meuron that the constables had met with opposition.
The signal, {123} however, proved unnecessary.  In spite of the angry crowd at the entrance,
Selkirk's men pushed open the gate of the fort.  They seized M'Donald, who struggled fiercely,
and bore him away towards the boats. The soldiers marched up from the boats, and, in a moment,
Fort William was in their possession.  Before further help arrived, in response to the bugle-call,
the struggle was over.  Six partners of the North-West Company were taken to the boats and
carried to Lord Selkirk's encampment.  These were John M'Donald, Daniel M'Kenzie, Allan M'Donald,
Hugh M'Gillis, Alexander M'Kenzie, and Simon Fraser, the last named being the noted explorer.
Captain D'Orsonnens stationed a guard within the fort, and himself remained behind to search
the papers of those who had been arrested.

By the time Lord Selkirk had finished the examination of his fresh group of prisoners the hour
was late.  He did not wish to keep any of the partners in confinement, and so he arranged that
they should go back to their quarters at the fort for the night.  The prisoners promised that
they would behave in seemly fashion, and do nothing of a hostile nature.  There is evidence
to show that before {124} morning many papers were burned in the mess-room kitchen at the fort.
Word was also brought to Lord Selkirk that a quantity of firearms and ammunition had been removed
from Fort William during the night.  In consequence of this information he issued another warrant,
authorizing a 'search for arms.'  When the search was made fifty or more guns and fowling-pieces
were found hidden among some hay in a barn.  Eight barrels of gunpowder were also found lying
in a swampy place not far from the fort, and the manner in which the grass was trampled down
indicated that the barrels had been deposited there very recently.  When Selkirk learned of
this attempt to remove arms and ammunition, he felt justified in adopting stringent measures.
He ordered what was practically an occupation of Fort William.  Most of the Canadians, Bois
Brûlés, and Indians in the service of the North-West Company were commanded to leave the fort
and to cross to the other side of the river.  Their canoes were confiscated.  The nine partners
were held as prisoners and closely watched.  Selkirk's force abandoned Point De Meuron and
erected their tents on ground near Fort William.  The hearing was continued, and it {125} was
finally decided that the accused should be committed for trial at York and conducted thither
under a strong guard.

Selkirk had not exceeded his authority as a justice of the peace in holding the investigations
and in sending the partners for trial to the judicial headquarters of the province.  But he
had also seized the property of the North-West Company and driven its servants from their fort,
and this was straining his legal powers.  The task of taking the nine partners to York was
entrusted to Lieutenant Fauché.  Three canoes were provisioned for the journey.  Indians regularly
employed by the North-West Company were engaged as canoemen and guides.  On August 18 the party
set out from Fort William.  At first the journey went tranquilly enough.  On the eighth day,
about one o'clock in the afternoon, the party drew up their canoes on Isle au Parisien, in
Whitefish Bay, to take dinner.  A heavy westerly breeze sprang up, but they were on the leeward
side of the island and did not notice its full strength.  Lieutenant Fauché had misgivings,
however, and before he would resume the journey he consulted his prisoner, William M'Gillivray,
who was an expert canoeman.  M'Gillivray was confident that {126} the 'traverse' to Sault Ste
Marie could be made in safety if the Indian guides exercised great caution.  The guides, on
the other hand, objected to leaving the island.  Their advice was not heeded, and the three
canoes put out.  Very soon they were running before a squall and shipping water.  The first
canoe turned its prow in the direction of Isle aux Erables, lying to the left, and the other
two followed this example.  Near Isle aux Erables there were some shoals destined now to cause
tragic disaster.  In attempting to pass these shoals the leading canoe was capsized.  The others,
so heavily laden that they could do nothing to rescue their companions, paddled hurriedly to
shore, unloaded part of their cargoes, and then hastened to the spot where their comrades were
struggling in the stormy waters.  But it was too late.  In spite of the most heroic efforts
nine of the twenty-one persons belonging to the wrecked canoe were drowned.  Kenneth M'Kenzie,
of the North-West Company, was one of those who perished; six of the others were Indians; the
remaining two were discharged soldiers. Another canoe was procured at Sault Ste Marie.  The
party continued its journey and reached York on September 3.  Fauché at once sought the {127}
attorney-general, in order to take proper legal steps, but found that he was absent.  The prisoners
meanwhile applied for a writ of habeas corpus, and Fauché was instructed to take them to Montreal.
This was to take them to the home of the Nor'westers, where they would be supported by powerful
influences.  On September 10, when the partners arrived in Montreal, they were at once admitted
to bail.

Meanwhile, Lord Selkirk continued to exercise full sway over Fort William and its environs.
He had himself no misgivings whatever with regard to the legality of his treatment of the Nor'westers.
In his view he had taken possession of a place which had served, to quote his own words, 'the
last of any in the British dominions, as an asylum for banditti and murderers, and the receptacle
for their plunder.'  During the ensuing winter he sent out expeditions to capture the posts
belonging to the North-West Company at Michipicoten, Rainy Lake, and Fond du Lac.  In March
he commissioned a part of his followers to advance into the territory of Assiniboia to restore
order.  The veterans whom he sent artfully arranged their journey so that they should approach
'the Forks' from {128} the south.  The Nor'westers in Fort Douglas were wholly unaware that
a foe was advancing against them. On a blustering night, amid storm and darkness, Selkirk's
men crept up to the walls, carrying ladders.  In a trice they had scaled the ramparts, and
the fort was in their possession.

On the first day of May 1817 Lord Selkirk himself went forward to the west from Fort William,
taking with him the bodyguard which he had procured at Drummond Island.  He followed the fur
traders' route up the Kaministikwia to Dog Lake, thence, by way of the waters which connect
with Rainy Lake, on to the Lake of the Woods, and down the rushing Winnipeg.  After a journey
of seven weeks he emerged from the forest-clad wilderness and saw for the first time the little
row of farms which the toil of his long-suffering colonists had brought into being on the open
plains.

{129}

CHAPTER XII

THE PIPE OF PEACE

'The parish shall be Kildonan.'

As Lord Selkirk spoke, he was standing in what is to-day the northern part of the city of Winnipeg.
A large gathering of settlers listened to his words.  The refugees of the year before, who
were encamped on the Jack river, had returned to their homes, and now, in instituting a parish
for them and creating the first local division in Assiniboia, Lord Selkirk was giving it a
name reminiscent of the vales of Sutherlandshire.  'Here you shall build your church,' continued
his lordship.  The Earl of Selkirk's religion was deep-seated, and he was resolved to make
adequate provision for public worship.  'And that lot,' he said, indicating a piece of ground
across a rivulet known as Parsonage Creek, 'is for a school.'  For his time he held what was
advanced radical doctrine in regard to education, for he believed that there should be a common
school in every parish.

{130}

Selkirk's genial presence and his magnanimity of character quickly banished any prejudices
which the colonists had formed against him.  In view of the hardships they had endured, he
divided among them, free of all dues, some additional land.  To the discharged soldiers he
gave land on both sides of the river.  They were to live not far removed from Fort Douglas,
in order that they might give speedy aid in case of trouble.  The settlers were enjoined to
open roads, construct bridges, and build flour-mills at convenient places.

Meanwhile, the disturbances in the fur country were being considered in the motherland.  When
news of the Seven Oaks affair and of other acts of violence reached Great Britain, Lord Bathurst
thought that the home government should take action.  He sent an official note to Sir John
Sherbrooke, the governor of Canada, instructing him to deal with the situation.  Sherbrooke
was to see that the forts, buildings, and property involved in the unhappy conflict should
be restored to their rightful owners, and that illegal restrictions on trade should be removed.
When Sherbrooke received this dispatch, in February 1817, he selected two military {131} officers,
Lieutenant-Colonel Coltman and Major Fletcher, to go to the Indian Territories in order to
arbitrate upon the questions causing dissension.  The two commissioners left Montreal in May,
escorted by forty men of the 37th regiment.  From Sault Ste Marie, Coltman journeyed on ahead,
and arrived at 'the Forks' on July 5.  In Montreal he had formed the opinion that Lord Selkirk
was a domineering autocrat.  Now, however, he concluded after inquiry that Selkirk was neither
irrational nor self-seeking, and advised that the accusations against him should not be brought
into the courts.  At the same time he bound Selkirk under bail of £10,000 to appear in Canada
for trial.  When Coltman returned to Lower Canada in the autumn of 1817, Sherbrooke was able
to write the Colonial Office that 'a degree of tranquility' had been restored to the Indian
Territories.

