THE BRIDGE OF THE GODS

THE BRIDGE OF THE GODS

A Romance of Indian Oregon

by

F. H. BALCH

With eight full-page illustrations by L. Maynard Dixon

NINETEENTH EDITION

Chicago . A. C. McClurg & Co. Nineteen Hundred & Fifteen

Copyright A. C. McClurg & Co. 1890 and 1902

W. F. Hall Printing Company, Chicago

PUBLISHERS' NOTE

Encouraged by the steady demand for Mr. Balch's "The Bridge of the Gods," since its publication
twelve years ago, the publishers have decided to issue a new edition beautified with drawings
from the pencil of Mr. L. Maynard Dixon. This tale of the Indians of the far West has fairly
earned its lasting popularity, not only by the intense interest of the story, but by its faithful
delineations of Indian character.

In his boyhood Mr. Balch enjoyed exceptional opportunities to inform himself regarding the
character and manners of the Indians: he visited them in their homes, watched their industries,
heard their legends, saw their gambling games, listened to their conversation; he questioned
the Indians and the white pioneers, and he read many books for information on Indian history,
traditions, and legends. By personal inquiry among old natives he learned that the Bridge which
suggested the title of his romance was no fabric of the imagination, but was a great natural
bridge that in early days spanned the Columbia, and later, according to tradition, was destroyed
by an earthquake.

Before his death the author had the satisfaction of knowing that his work was stamped with
the approval of the press and the public; his satisfaction would have been more complete could
he have foreseen that that approval would be so lasting.

   JULY 1, 1902.

PREFACE.

In attempting to present with romantic setting a truthful and realistic picture of the powerful
and picturesque Indian tribes that inhabited the Oregon country two centuries ago, the author
could not be indifferent to the many serious difficulties inseparable from such an enterprise.
Of the literary success with which his work has been accomplished, he must of course leave
others to judge; but he may without immodesty speak briefly of his preparation for his task,
and of the foundation of some of the facts and legends which form the framework of his story.
Indian life and character have long been a favorite study with him, and in these pages he has
attempted to describe them, not from an ideal standpoint, but as he knew them in his own boyhood
on the Upper Columbia. Many of the incidents related in the story have come under his personal
observation; others have been told him by aged pioneers, or gleaned from old books of Northwestern
travel. The every-day life of the Indians, their food, their dress, their methods of making
their mats, of building their houses, of shaping their canoes, their gambling games, their
religious beliefs, their legends, their subjects of conversation, the sports and pastimes of
their children,--all these have been studied at first hand, and with the advantages of familiar
and friendly intercourse with these people in their own homes. By constant questioning, many
facts have been gained regarding their ancestry, and the fragments of history, tradition, and
legend that have come down from them. Indian antiquities have been studied through every available
source of information. All the antiquarian collections in Oregon and California have been consulted,
old trading-posts visited, and old pioneers and early missionaries conversed with. Nothing
has been discarded as trivial or insignificant that could aid in the slightest degree in affording
an insight into Indian character and customs of a by-gone age.

As to the great Confederacy of the Wauna, it may be said that Gray's "History of Oregon" tells
us of an alliance of several tribes on the Upper Columbia for mutual protection and defence;
and students of Northwestern history will recall the great confederacy that the Yakima war-chief
Kamyakin formed against the whites in the war of 1856, when the Indian tribes were in revolt
from the British Possessions to the California line. Signal-fires announcing war against the
whites leaped from hill to hill, flashing out in the night, till the line of fire beginning
at the wild Okanogan ended a thousand miles south, on the foot-hills of Mount Shasta. Knowing
such a confederacy as this to be an historical fact, there seems nothing improbable in that
part of the legend which tells us that in ancient times the Indian tribes on either side of
the Cascade Range united under the great war-chief Multnomah against their hereditary foes
the Shoshones. Even this would not be so extensive a confederacy as that which Kamyakin formed
a hundred and fifty years later.

It may be asked if there was ever a great natural bridge over the Columbia,--a "Bridge of the
Gods," such as the legend describes. The answer is emphatically, "Yes." Everywhere along the
mid-Columbia the Indians tell of a great bridge that once spanned the river where the cascades
now are, but where at that time the placid current flowed under an arch of stone; that this
bridge was tomanowos, built by the gods; that the Great Spirit shook the earth, and the bridge
crashed down into the river, forming the present obstruction of the cascades. All of the Columbian
tribes tell this story, in different versions and in different dialects, but all agreeing upon
its essential features as one of the great facts of their past history.

"Ancutta (long time back)," say the Tumwater Indians, "the salmon he no pass Tumwater falls.
It too much big leap. Snake Indian he no catch um fish above falls. By and by great tomanowos
bridge at cascades he fall in, dam up water, make river higher all way up to Tumwater; then
salmon he get over. Then Snake Indian all time catch um plenty."

"My father talk one time," said an old Klickitat to a pioneer at White Salmon, Washington;
"long time ago liddle boy, him in canoe, his mother paddle, paddle up Columbia, then come to
tomanowos bridge. Squaw paddle canoe under; all dark under bridge. He look up, all like one
big roof, shut out sky, no see um sun. Indian afraid, paddle quick, get past soon, no good.
Liddle boy no forget how bridge look."

Local proof also is not wanting. In the fall, when the freshets are over and the waters of
the Columbia are clear, one going out in a small boat just above the cascades and looking down
into the transparent depths can see submerged forest trees beneath him, still standing upright
as they stood before the bridge fell in and the river was raised above them. It is a strange,
weird sight, this forest beneath the river; the waters wash over the broken tree-tops, fish
swim among the leafless branches: it is desolate, spectre-like, beyond all words. Scientific
men who have examined the field with a view to determining the credibility of the legend about
the bridge are convinced that it is essentially true. Believed in by many tribes, attested
by the appearance of the locality, and confirmed by geological investigation, it is surely
entitled to be received as a historic fact.

The shipwreck of an Oriental vessel on the Oregon coast, which furnishes one of the most romantic
elements in our story, is an altogether probable historic incident, as explained more fully
in a foot-note on page 75.

The spelling of Indian names, in which authorities differ so widely, has been made as accurate
as possible; and, as in the name "Wallulah," the oldest and most Indian-like form has been
chosen. An exception has been made in the case of the modernized and corrupted "Willamette,"
which is used instead of the original Indian name, "Wallamet." But the meaningless "Willamette"
has unfortunately passed into such general use that one is almost compelled to accept it. Another
verbal irregularity should be noticed: Wauna, the name given by all the Indians in the story
to the Columbia, was only the Klickitat name for it. The Indians had no general name for the
Columbia, but each tribe had a special name, if any, for it. Some had no name for it at all.
It was simply "the big water," "the river," "the big salmon water." What Wauna, the Klickitat
name, or Wemath, the Wasco name, signifies, the author has been unable to learn, even from
the Indians who gave him the names. They do not know; they say their fathers knew, but it is
forgotten now.

A rich and splendid treasure of legend and lore has passed away with the old pioneers and the
Indians of the earlier generation. All that may be found interesting in this or any other book
on the Indians, compared to what has been lost, is like "a torn leaf from some old romance."

  F. H. B.

  OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA,
    September, 1890.

CONTENTS.

  Book I.

  THE APOSTLE TO THE INDIANS.

  CHAPTER                                     PAGE

       I.  THE NEW ENGLAND MEETING              13
      II.  THE MINISTER'S HOME                  21
     III.  A DARKENED FIRESIDE                  31
      IV.  THE COUNCIL OF ORDINATION            39
       V.  INTO TRACKLESS WILDS                 47

  Book II.

  THE OPENING OF THE DRAMA.

       I.  SHALL THE GREAT COUNCIL BE HELD?     53
      II.  THE WAR-CHIEF AND THE SEER           69
     III.  WALLULAH                             74
      IV.  SENDING OUT THE RUNNERS              87

  Book III.

  THE GATHERING OF THE TRIBES.

       I.  THE BROKEN PEACE-PIPE                91
      II.  ON THE WAY TO THE COUNCIL           103
     III.  THE GREAT CAMP ON THE ISLAND        120
      IV.  AN INDIAN TRIAL                     131
       V.  SENTENCED TO THE WOLF-DEATH         142

  Book IV.

  THE LOVE TALE.

       I.  THE INDIAN TOWN                     151
      II.  THE WHITE WOMAN IN THE WOOD         159
     III.  CECIL AND THE WAR-CHIEF             169
      IV.  ARCHERY AND GAMBLING                176
       V.  A DEAD QUEEN'S JEWELS               181
      VI.  THE TWILIGHT TALE                   191
     VII.  ORATOR AGAINST ORATOR               200
    VIII.  IN THE DARK                         210
      IX.  QUESTIONING THE DEAD                217

  Book V.

  THE SHADOW OF THE END.

       I.  THE HAND OF THE GREAT SPIRIT        227
      II.  THE MARRIAGE AND THE BREAKING UP    241
     III.  AT THE CASCADES                     248
      IV.  MULTNOMAH'S DEATH-CANOE             260
       V.  AS WAS WRIT IN THE BOOK OF FATE     268

ILLUSTRATIONS.

  "'What think you now, Tohomish?'"                    Frontispiece
  "'I have spoken; I will not turn back from
       my words'"                                   Facing page  50
  "'The Earth hears us, the Sun sees us'"           Facing page  88
  The Great "Witch Mountain" of the Indians         Facing page 108
  "'I Will kill him!'"                              Facing page 168
  "It was the Death-song of the Willamettes"        Facing page 204
  "'Come back! Come back!'"                         Facing page 224
  Multnomah's Death-canoe                           Facing page 264

                 What tall and tawny men were these,
                 As sombre, silent, as the trees
                 They moved among! and sad some way
                 With tempered sadness, ever they,
                 Yet not with sorrow born of fear,
                 The shadows of their destinies
                 They saw approaching year by year,
                 And murmured not.

                      .     .     .     .     .

                 They turned to death as to a sleep,
                 And died with eager hands held out
                 To reaching hands beyond the deep;
                 And died with choicest bow at hand,
                 And quiver full and arrow drawn
                 For use, when sweet to-morrow's dawn
                 Should wake them in the Spirit Land.

                                    JOAQUIN MILLER.

THE BRIDGE OF THE GODS.

BOOK I.

THE APOSTLE TO THE INDIANS.

CHAPTER I.

THE NEW ENGLAND MEETING.

   Such as sit in darkness and the shadow of death.--Bible.

One Sabbath morning more than two hundred years ago, the dawn broke clear and beautiful over
New England. It was one of those lovely mornings that seem like a benediction, a smile of God
upon the earth, so calm are they, so full of unutterable rest and quiet. Over the sea, with
its endless line of beach and promontory washed softly by the ocean swells; over the towns
of the coast,--Boston and Salem,--already large, giving splendid promise of the future; over
the farms and hamlets of the interior, and into the rude clearings where the outer limits of
civilization mingled with the primeval forest, came a flood of light as the sun rose above
the blue line of eastern sea. And still beyond, across the Alleghanies, into the depth of the
wilderness, passed the sweet, calm radiance, as if bearing a gleam of gospel sunshine to the
Indians of the forest.

Nowhere did the Sunday seem more peaceful than in a sheltered valley in Massachusetts. Beautiful
indeed were the thrifty orchards, the rustic farmhouses, the meadows where the charred stumps
that marked the last clearing were festooned with running vines, the fields green with Indian
corn, and around all the sweep of hills dark with the ancient wood. Even the grim unpainted
meeting-house on the hill, which was wont to look the very personification of the rigid Calvinistic
theology preached within it, seemed a little less bare and forbidding on that sweet June Sabbath.

As the hour for morning service drew near, the drummer took his accustomed stand before the
church and began to thunder forth his summons,--a summons not unfitting those stern Puritans
whose idea of religion was that of a life-long warfare against the world, the flesh, and the devil.

Soon the people began to gather,--grave men and women, dressed in the sober-colored garb of
the day, and little children, clad in their "Sunday best," undergoing the awful process of
"going to meeting," yet some of them, at least, looking at the cool shadowed wood as they passed,
and thinking how pleasant it would be to hunt berries or birds' nests in those sylvan retreats
instead of listening to a two hours' sermon, under imminent danger of perdition if they went
to sleep,--for in such seductive guise did the Evil One tempt the souls of these youthful Puritans.
Solemn of visage and garb were the groups, although here and there the gleam of a bit of ribbon
at the throat of some young maiden, or a bonnet tastefully adorned, showed that "the world,
the flesh, and the devil" were not yet wholly subdued among them.

As the audience filed through the open door, the men and women divided, the former taking one
side of the house, the latter the other,--the aisle forming a dividing line between them. The
floor was uncarpeted, the walls bare, the pulpit undraped, and upon it the hour-glass stood
beside the open Bible. Anything more stiff and barren than the interior of the meeting-house
it would be difficult to find.

An unwonted stir breaks the silence and solemnity of the waiting congregation, as an official
party enters. It is the Governor of the colony and his staff, who are making a tour of the
province, and have stopped over Sunday in the little frontier settlement,--for although the
Governor is an august man, even he may not presume to travel on the Sabbath in this land of
the Puritans. The new-comers are richly dressed. There is something heavy, massive, and splendid
in their garb, especially in the Governor's. He is a stately military-looking man, and wears
his ample vestments, his embroidered gloves, his lace and ruffles, with a magisterial air.

A rustle goes through the audience as the distinguished visitors pass up the aisle to the front
seats assigned, as the custom was, to dignitaries. Young people steal curious glances at them;
children turn around in their seats to stare, provoking divers shakes of the head from their
elders, and in one instance the boxing of an ear, at which the culprit sets up a smothered
howl, is ignominiously shaken, and sits swelling and choking with indignant grief during the
remainder of the service.

At length the drum ceased, indicating both the arrival of the minister and the time for service
to begin.

The minister took his place in the pulpit. He was a young man, of delicate mould, with a pale
and intellectual face. Exquisite sensitiveness was in the large gray eyes, the white brow,
the delicate lips, the long slender fingers; yet will and energy and command were in them all.
His was that rare union of extreme sensibility with strong resolution that has given the world
its religious leaders,--its Savonarolas and Chrysostoms; men whose nerves shrank at a discord
in music, but when inspired by some grand cause, were like steel to suffer and endure.

Something of this was in the minister's aspect, as he stood before the people that morning.
His eyes shone and dilated, and his slight figure gathered dignity as his gaze met that of
the assembly. There was no organ, that instrument being deemed a device of the Prince of Darkness
to lead the hearts of the unwary off to popery; but the opening hymn was heartily sung. Then
came the Scripture reading,--usually a very monotonous performance on the part of Puritan divines;
but as given in the young minister's thoughtfully modulated voice, nothing could have been
more expressive. Every word had its meaning, every metaphor was a picture; the whole psalm
seemed to breathe with life and power: "Lord, thou hast been our dwelling-place in all generations."

Majestic, mournful, yet thrilling with deathless hope, was the minister's voice; and the people
were deeply moved. The prayer followed,--not the endless monologue of the average Puritan clergyman,
but pointed, significant, full of meaning. Again his face was lifted before them as he rose
to announce the text. It was paler now; the eyes were glowing and luminous; the long, expressive
fingers were tremulous with excitement. It was evident to all that no common subject was to
be introduced, no common effort to be made. Always composed, the audience grew more quiet still.
The very children felt the hush of expectation, and gazed wonderingly at the minister. Even
that great man, the Governor, lost his air of unbending grandeur, and leaned expectantly forward.

The subject was Paul's vision of the man in Macedonia crying for help. The speaker portrayed
in burning words the condition of Macedonia, the heathen gloom and utter hopelessness of her
people, the vision that came to Paul, and his going to preach to them. Then, passing to England
under the Druids, he described the dark paganism, the blood-stained altars, the brutal priesthood
of the age; and told of the cry that went forth for light,--a cry that touched the heart of
the Roman Gregory into sending missionaries to show them the better way.

Like some royal poem was the discourse, as it showed how, through the storms and perils of
more than a thousand years, amid the persecution of popes, the wars of barons, and the tyranny
of kings, England had kept the torch burning, till in these latter times it had filled the
world with light. Beautiful was the tribute he paid to the more recent defenders of the faith,
and most intense the interest of the listeners; for men sat there who had come over the seas
because of their loyalty to the faith,--old and grizzled men, whose youth had known Cromwell
and Charles Stuart, and who had in more recent years fought for "King Monmouth" and shared
the dark fortunes of Argyle.

The old Governor was roused like a veteran war-horse at the sound of the trumpet; many faces
were flushed with martial ardor. The young minister paused reflectively at the enthusiasm he
had kindled. A sorrowful smile flitted around his lips, though the glow of inspiration was
still burning in his eyes. Would they be as enthusiastic when he made the application of his
discourse?

And yet England, yea, even New England, was false, disloyal. She had but half kept the faith.
When the cry of pagan England had gone forth for light, it had been heard; the light had been
given. But now in her day of illumination, when the Macedonian cry came to her, she closed
her ears and listened not. On her skirts was the blood of the souls of men; and at the last
day the wail of the heathen as they went down into the gulf of flame would bear witness against
her.

Grave and impassioned, with an undertone of warning and sorrow, rang the voice of the minister,
and the hearts of the people were shaken as though a prophet were speaking.

"Out from the forests around us come the cry of heathen folk, and ye will not listen. Ye have
the light, and they perish in darkness and go down to the pit. Generation after generation
has grown up here in forest and mountain, and has lived and died without God and without hope.
Generation has followed generation, stumbling blindly downward to the dust like the brutes
that perish. And now their children, bound in iron and sitting under the shadow of death, reach
out their hands from the wilderness with a blind cry to you for help. Will ye hear?"

He lifted his hands to them as he spoke; there was infinite pathos in his voice; for a moment
it seemed as if all the wild people of the wilderness were pleading through him for light.
Tears were in many eyes; yet in spite of the wonderful power of his oratory, there were faces
that grew stern as he spoke,--for only a few years had passed since the Pequod war, and the
feeling against the Indians was bitter. The Governor now sat erect and indignant.

Strong and vehement was the minister's plea for missionaries to be sent to the Indians; fearlessly
was the colonial government arraigned for its deficiencies in this regard; and the sands in
the hour-glass were almost run out when the sermon was concluded and the minister sank flushed
and exhausted into his seat.

The closing psalm was sung, and the audience was dismissed. Slow and lingering were the words
of the benediction, as if the preacher were conscious of defeat and longed to plead still further
with his people. Then the gathering broke up, the congregation filing out with the same solemnity
that had marked the entrance. But when the open air was reached, the pent-up excitement burst
forth in a general murmur of comment.

"A good man," remarked the Governor to his staff, "but young, quite young." And they smiled
approvingly at the grim irony of the tone.

"Our pastor is a fine speaker," said another, "but why will he bring such unpleasant things
into the pulpit? A good doctrinal sermon, now, would have strengthened our faith and edified
us all."

"Ay, a sermon on the errors of Episcopacy, for instance."

"Such talk makes me angry," growled a third. "Missionaries for the Indians! when the bones
of the good folk they have killed are yet bleaching amid the ashes of their cabins! Missionaries
for those red demons! an' had it been powder and shot for them it had been a righteous sermon."

So the murmur of disapprobation went on among those slowly dispersing groups who dreaded and
hated the Indian with an intensity such as we now can hardly realize. And among them came the
minister, pale and downcast, realizing that he had dashed himself in vain against the stern
prejudice of his people and his age.

CHAPTER II.

THE MINISTER'S HOME.

               Sore have I panted at the sun's decline,
               To pass with him into the crimson West,
               And see the peoples of the evening.

                                          EDWIN ARNOLD.

The Reverend Cecil Grey,--for such was our young minister's name,--proceeded immediately after
the service to his home. Before we cross its threshold with him, let us pause for a moment
to look back over his past life.

Born in New England, he first received from his father, who was a fine scholar, a careful home
training, and was then sent to England to complete his education. At Magdalen College, Oxford,
he spent six years. Time passed very happily with him in the quiet cloisters of that most beautiful
of English colleges, with its memories of Pole and Rupert, and the more courtly traditions
of the state that Richard and Edward had held there. But when, in 1687, James II. attempted
to trample on the privileges of the Fellows and force upon them a popish president, Cecil was
one of those who made the famous protest against it; and when protests availed nothing, he
left Oxford, as also did a number of others. Returning to America, he was appointed pastor
of a New England church, becoming one of the many who carried the flower of scholarship and
eloquence into the bleak wilds of the New World.

Restless, sensitive, ardent, he was a man to whom a settled pastorate was impossible. Daring
enterprises, great undertakings of a religious nature yet full of peril, were the things for
which he was naturally fitted; and amid the monotonous routine of parish duties he longed for
a greater activity. Two centuries later he might have become distinguished as a revivalist
or as a champion of new and startling views of theology; earlier, he might have been a reformer,
a follower of Luther or Loyola; as it was, he was out of his sphere.

But for a time the Reverend Mr. Grey tried hard to mould himself to his new work. He went with
anxious fidelity through all the labors of the country pastorate. He visited and prayed with
the sick, he read the Bible to the old and dim-sighted, he tried to reconcile petty quarrels,
he wrestled with his own discontent, and strove hard to grind down all the aspirations of his
nature and shut out the larger horizon of life.

And for a time he was successful; but during it he was induced to take a very fatal step. He
was young, handsome, a clergyman, and unmarried. Now a young unmarried minister is pre-eminently
one of sorrows and acquainted with grief. For that large body of well-meaning people who are
by nature incapacitated from attending to their own business take him in hand without mercy.
Innumerable are the ways in which he is informed that he ought to be married. Subtle and past
finding out are the plots laid by all the old ladies and match-makers of his church to promote
that desired event. He is told that he can never succeed in the ministry till he is married.
The praises of Matilda Jane Tompkins or Lucinda Brown are sounded in his ears till he almost
wishes that both were in a better world,--a world more worthy their virtues. At length, wearily
capitulating, he marries some wooden-faced or angular saint, and is unhappy for life.

Now there was in Mr. Grey's church a good, gentle girl, narrow but not wooden-faced, famous
for her neatness and her housekeeping abilities, who was supposed to be the pattern for a minister's
wife. In time gone by she had set her heart on a graceless sailor lad who was drowned at sea,
much to the relief of her parents. Ruth Anderson had mourned for him quietly, shutting up her
sorrow in her own breast and going about her work as before; for hers was one of those subdued,
practical natures that seek relief from trouble in hard work.

She seemed in the judgment of all the old women in the church the "very one" for Mr. Grey;
and it likewise seemed that Mr. Grey was the "very one" for her. So divers hints were dropped
and divers things were said, until each began to wonder if marriage were not a duty. The Reverend
Cecil Grey began to take unusual pains with his toilet, and wended his way up the hill to Mr.
Anderson's with very much the aspect of a man who is going to be hanged. And his attempts at
conversation with the maiden were not at all what might have been expected from the young minister
whose graceful presence and fluent eloquence had been the boast of Magdalen. It is this that helps pay for the room ... Drunkard, sinvergüenzonaza ...
But do not lose time, son, give me the suit, which I will take ... and with the help of God,
I will take even two eighty. Go get me thinking about what is missing. The Blessed Virgin to
you will, and I shall pray for you to give it folded, as I certainly do not want me any thing.
"

Taking Charge of the impatience of his friend, the blind man picked a nail the suit he called
again for a convention very common in business combinations and gave it to her friend, who in
four Zanchetta was placed on the patio and in the round, then pulling to the call Campillo de
Manuela. The beggar, meanwhile, uttering angry words, it is not easy to play narrator, being in
Arabic, felt the bulk of women intoxicated, which as a dead body lying in the middle of the
cubicle. A angry expressions the blind, only answered with harsh growling, and turned away, sprawled
and stretching arms to fall back into deep slumber and more brutal
inertia.

Almudena put his hand in between the black robes, the folds, scrambled with shawl, formed an inextricable
mess, and accompanying registration of furious exclamations, explored also the flaccid bosom,
as if you love skins with cloth. I was so nervous man I found what should be covered, and hid what
they like to see the light of day. There took rosaries, scapulars, a bundle of papers wrapped in
a hard piece of paper, horseshoe pieces gathered in the streets, teeth of animals or people, and
other trinkets. Following registration, entered the Benina, back and diligence, which had sent
so quickly, as if it had been brought on wings and the angels of heaven. The poor woman came
sofocadísima the fast run through the streets, I could hardly breathe,
and Fire dismissed his sweaty face, her eyes joy.

"I have been three - he said, showing the coins - a quarter.

I have not had much luck in Valeriano be there, you get to be the mistress, Reimund, labor
cost get two-plus. "

Responding to the old happy, Almudena, with a face of joy and triumph,
showed him between his fingers a quarter.

'Is here in the Piech of this ... Tigo catch.

- Oh, what luck! Did not have more? Looking good, son.

- I had more. My regolver Piech things. "

Benina shook the drunk's clothes waiting to see a coin jump. But it jumped more two forks, and
some bits of coal.

"I had more."

She rattled the blind, and by the explanations given of the nature and behavior the big woman, could
understand that if they had found this in a state of normal clearance,
peseta would have given the asking.

With a short sentence summed up his partner Almudena Hosting: "Being Bueno, be bad ... Take
it tudo, tudo give it. "

Continuous act lifted the mattress and digging into the ground, pulled out a dirty old suitcase,
who carefully hid in rags and cardboard, and put his fingers in her, like someone pulls out
a cigarette, took a papelejo, which unfolded was a penny of two realities, new and shiny. Benina
took it while he drew from his pocket Almudena, where he had many tools, scissors, needle spliff,
knife, etc.., another envelope with two shillings.

He said to them he had received from D. Carlos, and gave everything to the poor old woman, saying:
'Amri, and arriglar tigo.

- Yes, yes ... I put mine today, and the absence so little that I will not bother you anymore.
Thanks God! I can not believe. Oh, son, how good you are! You deserve to drop the lottery, and
if you do not like, it's because there is no justice on earth or in heaven ... Goodbye, son,
I can not stop another moment ... God bless you ... I'm on tenterhooks. I'm flying home ... Stay
in yours ... and this poor wretch, when you wake, do not hit, son, poor thing! Each one, for the
sake of not suffering, get drunk so you can: this with the aguardentazo, others with something
else. I also lame, but not well: mine are deeper thing ... I'll tell you, I'll tell you. "

And
shot out, the coins stuck in the heart, afraid that someone removed
from the Along the way, or that he flew away, dragged from their tumultuous
thoughts.

Al Left alone, Almudena went to the kitchen, where, among other junk, had a palanganita tin
and a jar of water. He washed his hands and eyes, then took a pot in which ashes and coals
were off, and going to a neighboring house, he returned a little while with fire, over which
poured a handful of some substance in an envelope of paper beside his bed. Fire rose very dense
smoke and a pungent odor. Was the incense of benzoin, the only remembrance of the native soil
material that allowed Almudena wandering in exile. The special aroma, characteristic of Moorish
house was his comfort, keenest pleasure, religious practice and home
together, then wrapped in smoke that things began to pray that no
Christian could understand.

With the smog, the snarling drunk again, and cleared his throat, and coughing, as if trying
to remember yes. The blind did not make him more attention than a dog, attentive only to their
prayers in that language know whether it was Arabic or Hebrew, covering one eye in each hand,
and lowering them later on mouth to kiss. Median time spent in meditation, and when finished,
was sitting before him with eyes slut lloricones elusive and, because
of the itching caused by the thick incense, looked at him.

Seriously presenting palms, Almudena I let these words:

"Great pick,
not having more than one God ... b'rracha, b'rrachona not be more
than one God ... a God, a God alone, alone.

"

He dropped another hearty laugh, and touching his chest, he wanted
to clean up the mess concerned that the hand of his roommate had caused
in that part interesting of person.

Clumsy sleep out alcoholic who could not quite put everything in its site or to cover the modesty
seeks and ever sought to be covered. "Jai, you I've arregistrao.

- Yes ... Not have more than one God, one God alone.

- And to me, what? For me who have already two or forty, all that they themselves want to have
... But tell me, sponger, I've removed the peseta. I do not care. Pa ti era.

- A God alone!

".

And seeing him take the stick, put women on guard, saying, "Hey, do not hit, Jai. Enough and
of incense, and get to make dinner. How much money do you have? What do you bring? ...

- B'rrachona! diniero failing ... Take the Embaixador, you sleep.

- What do you bring? - Murmured the black woman staggered and closing his eyes -. Aguárdate a little
bit. I have dream, Jai. "

He fell back into deep sleep, and Almudena, which had required the club with intentions using
it as an infallible remedy for drunkenness, took pity and sighed hard, muttering these or
similar words: "Paste you another day."

VI

Almost is not hyperbole to say that the Sena Benina, after leaving Santa Casilda, possessing
incomplete hard that calmed his mortal anguish, going in rounds, and street crossings as an
arrow.

With sixty years back, kept his agility and alertness, coupled with perseverance inexhaustible.
He had spent the best of life in an eager rush, which required much
activity as a prank, crazy efforts of the mind and muscles, and that
teaching was fortified in body and spirit, it formed the special temple
woman will know who read this timely story of his life.

With amazing alacrity entered in a drugstore in the Calle de Toledo, collected medicines had ordered
early in the morning, then did stop at the butcher shop and grocery store, carrying her shopping
distinct wrapping paper, and finally entered a house in Imperial Street, near the Rinconada that
is the True almotacén and Contrast. Glided along the narrow portal, blocked and almost impassable
by the flaps of a trade of rope that is in it, rose stairs, walk to the main rapids with moderate
step up to the second, came panting to the third, which was the last, with honors attic. Turned a
large patio Gallery of leaded glass, uneven ground due to uneven subsidence and the old factory,
and finally came to a paneled door, unpainted, called ... It was his house, the house of his
wife, which, in person, groping the walls, came the noise of the
bell, or rather hoarse jangling, and opened, not without the precaution
of asking for sight, square, defended by an iron cross.

"Thank God, woman ...-- told at the door -. Go a few hours! I thought
that I caught a car, or you had an accident.

"

Without saying a word to his wife continued Benina gabinetillo up
next, and both sat down.

Apologized Maid's explanations for his delay was to give them fear,
and began to defensive, waiting to see where it came from Dona Paca,
and what positions he took in his irascible genius.

Something reassuring tone of the first words with which it was received;
expected a sharp rebuke, words complacent.

But the lady seemed to be of good, trained, indeed, the harsh nature of the intensity of suffering.
Benina proposed, as always, accommodate is that you play the other, and soon to be with her,
changed the first phrases, he calmed down. "Ay, ma'am, what a day!

I was undone, but would not let me, I let out of that blessed home.

- I do not explain it - said the lady, whose Andalusian acentillo
persisted, although highly attenuated, after forty years of residence
in Madrid -.

I'm aware. On hearing the twelve, one, two, I said to myself: 'But, Lord, why take so long Nina?'.
Until I remembered ...

- Right.

- I thought ... as I have in my head all the calendar ... that today is San Romualdo, confessor and
Bishop of Pharsalia ...

- Cabal.

- And are the days of Mr. priest
in whose house you're an assistant.

- If I thought you had to guess,
would have been more quiet - said the maid, in his extraordinary ability
to build and expose lies, took advantage of the solid cable threw
her mistress -.

And it was not loose the job!

- You've had to take a long lunch.

That's what I reckon. And do not be short of swallows the San Sebastian curánganos, colleagues and
friends in your D. Romualdo!

- Everything you say is not enough.

- Tell me, what are you wearing? - Nervously asked the lady, who liked
to know what ate in the homes of others -.

I'm aware. I would mayonnaise.

- First rice, which was very close to me. Oh, Lord, how much praise! That if it was I first
cook the whole Europe ... that if shame is not sucking her fingers
...

- What next?

- A fricassee that they wanted for themselves and
the angels of heaven.

Then, squid in ink ... then ...

- For though I have you told me not to bring any leftovers home, they prefer misery God sent me to
suck the bones of other tables ... as you know, you've no doubt brought
something.

Where's your basket? ".

Seeing fuck, Benina hesitated a moment, but no woman was undaunted by any danger and mastery of
the trick suggested working soon remove: "Well, ma'am, I left the
basket bringing suit in Mademoiselle Obdulia, who needs it more than
us.

- You did well.

I praise the idea, Nina.

Tell me more.

And a good steak, not wearing?

- Go, go!

Two and a half kilos, ma'am. Sotero Rico gave me the higher.

- What desserts, drinks ...?

- Up Champagne of the Widow.

Priests are the devil, and nothing is private ... But let's go inside, it's too late, and will
be the lady fainted.

- I was, but ... I do not know: it seems that
I've eaten all that you've spoken ... Finally, give me lunch.

- What
have you taken?

Is it cooked little turned away last night?

- Daughter, I could not pass.

Here I am with half an ounce of raw chocolate.

- Come on, let's go. The worst thing is you have to light a fire. But soon release ... Ah! also I bring
medicines. That comes first.

- Did you do all that I commanded you? - Asked the lady, launched the two into the kitchen -. "Grasp
my two petticoats?

- Why not?

With two pesetas I took, and two others who gave me D. Romualdo for
his holy, I could attend to everything.

- Did you pay the oil yesterday?

-
Well, no!

- And the lime and bloody?

- All, everything ... And I
still have left over after the purchase, for tomorrow.

- God Will
you bring us a good day tomorrow? - Said with great sorrow the lady
sitting in the kitchen, while the maid, with nervous promptly gathered
chips and coals.

- Ay! Yes, sir, keep it at that.

- Why did I tell
you, Nina?

- Because I know.

Heart tells me. Tomorrow we have a good day, I say that a great day.

- When you see him tell you if you hit ... I do not trust your hunches.

You're always with you tomorrow, tomorrow ...

- God is good.

- Me no think so. No shots were tired of me: I beatings, will not let me breathe. After bad
day, is a worse.

Spend years waiting for the remedy, and no illusion that I was not become disillusioned. I get
tired of suffering, I also tired of waiting. My hope is treacherous, and as always fool me, I
do not want to expect good things and bad I hope to come ... even regular.

- For me that Mrs. - said Benina giving the bellows - have trust in God, and would happy ...
You see, I'm ... Did I not see? I always think that when we least expect it We come the stroke
of luck, and we so richly, remembering the days of trouble, and retribution of them with the
great life that we're going to give.

- I do not aspire to the good
life, Nina - said almost crying Mrs. -: I aspire only to rest.

-
Who do you think about death?

That does not: I feel very comfortable in this world fandanguero,
and until I have him for odd jobs law happened. Not die.

- Would
you settle for this life?

- I'm satisfied because it is not in my
power to give me another. Come all before death, and we suffer provided
they do not miss a piece of bread and can eat with two sauces a very
good: hunger and hope.

- And support, and of misery, shame, humiliation
so, due to worldwide not pay anyone to live a thousand tangles, traps
and tricks, not to find who you rely value two real keepers ourselves
persecuted and sellers?

- Go if you take it! ... Everyone in this
life, as can be defended. It would be good We starve, while the shops
so full of things of substance! That does not: God does not want no
one would cool the roof of the mouth by not eating, and when it gives
us money, assume, gives us the subtlety of caletre to invent ways
of gathering what he does fail, without stealing ... not that. Because
I promise to pay, and pay when we have it. You know we are poor ...
formality at home there as haiga no more. It would be good afflict
us because the shopkeepers do not charge these miseries, knowing,
as we know, which are rich! ...

- Is that you have no shame, Nina,
I mean, decency, I mean dignity.

"She is getting better, she is coming out of her sufferings," he whispered to the doctor.

"She will be out of her sufferings very soon," he replied sadly; and then Cecil knew that the
end was at hand. Was it because the peace, the profound serenity which sometimes is the prelude
of death, filling her being, penetrated his, that he grew so strangely calm? An inexpressible
solemnity came to him as he looked at her, and all his agitation left him.

Her face grew very sweet and calm, and full of peace. Her eyes met Cecil's, and there was in
them something that seemed to thank him for all his goodness and patience,--something that
was both benediction and farewell. Her lips moved, but she was past the power of speech, and
only her eyes thanked him in a tender, grateful glance.

The sun's edge flashed above the horizon, and its first rays fell through the uncurtained window
full upon her face. She turned toward them, smiling faintly, and her face grew tenderly, radiantly
beautiful, as if on that beam of sunshine the spirit of her dead lover had come to greet her
from the sea. Then the sparkle died out of her eyes and the smile faded from her lips. It was
only a white, dead face that lay there bathed in golden light.

A moment after, Cecil left the house with swift footsteps and plunged into the adjacent wood.
There under a spreading oak he flung himself prone upon the earth, and buried his face in his
hands. A seething turmoil of thoughts swept his mind. The past rose before him like a panorama.
All his married life rushed back upon him, and every memory was regret and accusation.

"I might have been kinder to her, I might have been better," he murmured, while the hot tears
gushed from his eyes. "I might have been so much better to her," he repeated over and over,--he,
whose whole thought had been to shut up his sorrow in his own heart and show her only tenderness
and consideration.

By and by he grew calmer and sat up, leaning against the tree and looking out into vacancy
with dim eyes that saw nothing. His heart was desolate, emptied of everything. What was he
to do? What was he to set before himself? He had not loved her, but still she had been a part
of his life; with what was he to fill it now?

As he sat there depressed and troubled, a strange thing happened.

He was looking, as has been said, blindly into vacancy. It may have been an optical illusion,
it may have been a mere vagary born of an over-wrought brain; but a picture formed before him.
In the distance, toward the west, he saw something that looked like a great arch of stone,
a natural bridge, rugged with crags and dark with pine. Beneath it swept a wide blue river,
and on it wild horsemen were crossing and recrossing, with plumed hair and rude lances. Their
faces were Indian, yet of a type different from any he had ever seen. The bridge was in the
heart of a mighty mountain-range. On either side rose sharp and lofty peaks, their sides worn
by the action of water in some remote age.

These details he noted as in a dream; then the strangeness of it all burst upon him. Even as
it did so, the vision dissolved; the bridge wavered and passed away, the mountain-peaks sank
in shadow. He leaped to his feet and gazed eagerly. A fine mist seemed passing before his sight;
then he saw only the reach of hill and woodland, with the morning light resting upon it.

While the vision faded, he felt springing up within him an irrepressible desire to follow it.
A mysterious fascination seized him, a wild desire to seek the phantom bridge. His whole being
was swayed as by a supernatural power toward the west whence the vision had passed. He started
forward eagerly, then checked himself in bewilderment. What could it mean?

In the nineteenth century, one similarly affected would think it meant a fevered, a disordered
brain; but in the seventeenth, when statesmen like Cromwell believed in dreams and omens, and
roués like Monmouth carried charms in their pockets, these things were differently regarded.

The Puritan ministry, whose minds were imbued with the gloomy supernaturalism of the Old Testament
on which they fed, were especially men to whom anything resembling an apparition had a prophetic
significance. And Cecil Grey, though liberal beyond most New England clergymen, was liable
by the keenness of his susceptibilities and the extreme sensitiveness of his organization to
be influenced by such delusions,--if delusions they be. So he stood awed and trembling, questioning
within himself, like some seer to whom a dark and uncertain revelation has been made.

Suddenly the answer came.

"The Lord hath revealed his will unto me and shown me the path wherein I am to walk," he murmured
in a hushed and stricken tone. "Ruth was taken from me that I might be free to go where he
should send me. The vision of the Indians and the bridge which faded into the west, and the
strange desire that was given me to follow it, show that the Lord has another work for me to
do. And when I find the land of the bridge and of the wild people I saw upon it, then will
I find the mission that God has given me to do. 'Lord God of Israel, I thank Thee. Thou hast
shown me the way, and I will walk in it, though all its stones be fire and its end be death.'"

He stood a moment with bowed head, communing with his God. Then he returned to his lonely home.

The friends whose kindly sympathies had brought them to the house of mourning wondered at the
erect carriage, the rapt, exalted manner of the man. His face was pale, almost as pale as that
within the darkened room; but his eyes shone, and his lips were closely, resolutely set.

A little while, and that determined face was all sorrowful and pitying again, as he bent over
the still, cold body of his dead.

CHAPTER IV.

THE COUNCIL OF ORDINATION.

   Friends were assembled together; the Elder and Magistrate also
   Graced the scene with their presence, and stood like the Law and
        the Gospel....
   After the Puritan way and the laudable custom of Holland.

                                 The Courtship of Miles Standish.

A few days after the funeral, letters missive from the little society went out to all the neighboring
churches, calling a council to ordain the Reverend Cecil Grey a missionary to the Indians.

It was a novel thing, in spite of the noble example that Roger Williams had set not many years
before; and the summons met with a general response.

All the churches, far and near, sent delegates. If one could only have taken a peep, the day
before the council, into the households of that part of New England, what a glimpse he would
have gotten of Puritan domestic life! What a brushing up there was of black coats, what a careful
starching and ironing of bands; and above all, in Cecil's own neighborhood, what a mighty cookery
for the ordination dinner the next day! For verily the capacity of the clerical stomach is
marvellous, and is in fact the one thing in theology that does not change. New departures alter
doctrines, creeds are modified, but the appetite of the clergy is not subject to such mutations.

The morrow came, and with it the expected guests. The meeting house was crowded. There were
many ministers and lay delegates in the council. In the chair sat a venerable preacher, not
unknown in the records of those days,--a portly man, with a shrewd and kindly face. Sterner
faces were there also. The council wore a grave aspect, more like a court of judges before
whom a criminal is cited to appear than an assembly of clergymen about to ordain a missionary.

After some preliminaries, Cecil was called on to give a statement of his reasons for wishing
to go as an evangelist to the Indians. He rose before them. There was a singular contrast between
his slight form and expressive features and the stout frames and grim countenances of the others.
But the graceful presence of the man had in it a quiet dignity that commanded the respect of all.

In obedience to the command, he told how he had thought of the unknown tribes beyond the Alleghanies,
living in the gloom of paganism and perishing in darkness, till an intangible sympathy inclined
him toward them,--till, as it seemed to him, their great desire for light had entered into
and possessed him, drawing him toward them by a mysterious and irresistible attraction. He
felt called of God to go and minister to their spiritual needs, and that it was his duty to
leave everything and obey the call.

"Is this all?" he was asked.

He hesitated a moment, and then described his vision in the wood the morning of his wife's
death. It made a deep impression on his hearers. There was scarcely a man in the assembly who
was not tinged with the superstition of the age; and all listened, not lightly or sceptically,
but in awe, as if it brought them to the threshold of the supernatural.

When the narration was ended, the chairman requested him to retire, pending the decision of
the council; but first he was asked,--

"Are you willing to abide by the decision of this council, whatever it may be?"

He raised his head confidently, and his reply came frank and fearless.

"I shall respect the opinions of my brethren, no matter how they may decide; but I shall abide
by the will of God and my own convictions of duty."

The grave Puritan bent his head, half in acknowledgment of the reply, half in involuntary admiration
of its brave manhood; then Cecil left the room, the silent, watchful crowd that filled the
aisles parting respectfully to let him pass.

"Now, brethren," said the chairman, "the matter is before you. Let us hear from each his judgment
upon it."

Solemn and weighty were the opinions delivered. One brother thought that Mr. Grey had plenty
of work to do at home without going off on a wild-goose chase after the heathen folk of the
wilderness. His church needed him; to leave it thus would be a shameful neglect of duty.

Another thought that the Indians were descendants of the ten lost tribes of Israel, and as
such should be left in the hands of God. To attempt to evangelize them was to fly in the face
of Providence.

Another thought the same; but then, how about that vision of Mr. Grey? He couldn't get around
that vision.

"I don't know, brethren, I don't know!" he concluded, shaking his head.

Still another declared positively for Mr. Grey. The good people of the colonies owed it to
the savages to do something for their religious enlightenment. It was wrong that so little
had been done. They had taken their land from them, they had pushed them back into the wilds
at the point of the sword; now let them try to save their souls. This man had been plainly
called of God to be an apostle to the Indians; the least that they could do was to bid him
Godspeed and let him go.

So it went on. At length the venerable chairman, who had twice turned the hour-glass upon the
table before him, rose to close the discussion. His speech was a singular mixture of shrewdness,
benevolence, and superstition.

He said that, as Christians, they certainly owed a duty to the Indians,--a duty that had not
been performed. Mr. Grey wished to help fulfil that neglected obligation, and would go at his
own expense. It would not cost the church a shilling. His vision was certainly a revelation
of the will of the Lord, and he dared not stand in the way.

A vote was taken, and the majority were found to be in favor of ordination. The chairman pronounced
himself pleased, and Mr. Grey was recalled and informed of the result.

"I thank you," he said simply, with a glad and grateful smile.

"Now, brethren," said the worthy chairman with much unction, "the hour of dinner is nigh at
hand, and the good people of this place have prepared entertainment for us; so we will e'en
put off the ceremony of ordination till the afternoon. Let us look to the Lord for his blessing,
and be dismissed."

And so with a murmur of talk and comment the council broke up, its members going to the places
where they were to be entertained. Happy was the man who returned to his home accompanied by
a minister, while those not so fortunate were fain to be content with a lay delegate. Indeed,
the hospitality of the settlement was so bounteous that the supply exceeded the demand. There
were not enough visitors to go around; and more than one good housewife who had baked, boiled,
and roasted all the day before was moved to righteous indignation at the sight of the good
man of the house returning guestless from the meeting.

Early in the afternoon entertainers and entertained gathered again at the meeting-house. Almost
the entire country side was there,--old and young alike. The house was packed, for never before
had that part of New England seen a man ordained to carry the gospel to the Indians. It occurred,
too, in that dreary interval between the persecution of the Quakers and the persecution of
the witches, and was therefore doubly welcome.

When Cecil arrived, the throng made way reverently for him. Was he not going, perchance like
the martyrs of old, to the fagot and the stake? To those who had long known him he seemed hardly
like the same man. He was lifted to a higher plane, surrounded by an atmosphere of sanctity
and heroism, and made sacred by the high mission given him of God, to which was now to be added
the sanction of holy men.

So they made way for him, as the Florentines had made way for "il Frate" and as the people
of God had made way for Francis Xavier when he left them to stir the heart of the East with
his eloquence, and, alas! to die on the bleak sea-coast of China, clasping the crucifix to
his breast and praying for those who had cast him out.

Cecil's face, though pale, was calm and noble. All his nature responded to the moral grandeur
of the occasion. It would be difficult to put into words the reverent and tender exaltation
of feeling that animated him that day. Perhaps only those upon whose own heads the hands of
ordination have been laid can enter into or understand it.

The charge was earnest, but it was not needed, for Cecil's ardent enthusiasm went far beyond
all that the speaker urged upon him. As he listened, pausing as it were on the threshold of
an unknown future, he wondered if he should ever hear a sermon again,--he, so soon to be swallowed
by darkness, swept, self-yielded, into the abyss of savagery.

Heartfelt and touching was the prayer of ordination,--that God might accept and bless Cecil's
consecration, that the divine presence might always abide with him, that savage hearts might
be touched and softened, that savage lives might be lighted up through his instrumentality,
and that seed might be sown in the wilderness which would spring up and cause the waste places
to be glad and the desert to blossom as the rose.

"And so," said the old minister, his voice faltering and his hands trembling as they rested
on Cecil's bowed head, "so we give him into Thine own hand and send him forth into the wilderness.
Thou only knowest what is before him, whether it be a harvest of souls, or torture and death.
But we know that, for the Christian, persecutions and trials are but stepping-stones leading
to God; yea, and that death itself is victory. And if he is faithful, we know that whatever
his lot may be it will be glorious; that whatever the end may be, it will be but a door opening
into the presence of the Most High."

Strong and triumphant rang the old man's tones, as he closed his prayer committing Cecil into
the hands of God. To him, as he listened, it seemed as if the last tie that bound him to New
England was severed, and he stood consecrated and anointed for his mission. When he raised
his face, more than one of the onlookers thought of those words of the Book where it speaks
of Stephen,--"And they saw his face as it had been the face of an angel."

A psalm was sung, the benediction given, and the solemn service was over. It was long, however,
before the people left the house. They lingered around Cecil, bidding him farewell, for he
was to go forth at dawn the next day upon his mission. They pressed his hand, some with warm
words of sympathy, some silently and with wet eyes. Many affectionate words were said, for
they had never known before how much they loved their pastor; and now he seemed no longer a
pastor, but a martyr and a saint. More than one mother brought him her child to bless;--others
strangers from a distance--lifted their children up, so that they could see him above the press,
while they whispered to them that they must always remember that they had seen the good Mr.
Grey, who was going far off into the west to tell the Indians about God.

Long afterward, when nearly all that generation had passed away and the storm of the Revolution
was beginning to gather over the colonies, there were a few aged men still living who sometimes
told how, when they were children, they had seen Cecil Grey bidding the people farewell at
the old meeting-house; and through all the lapse of years they remembered what a wonderful
brightness was on his face, and how sweet and kind were his words to each as he bade them good-by
forever.

CHAPTER V.

INTO TRACKLESS WILDS.

             "I will depart," he said, "the hour is come,
              And in the silence of yon sky I read
              My fated message flashing."

                                            EDWIN ARNOLD.

The next morning Cecil rose early after a sleepless night. On that day he was to go out from
all that was sweet and precious in life and take the path into the wilderness. At first his
heart sank within him; then his strength of purpose revived, and he was resolute again.

He must go, and soon. The briefer the parting the briefer the pang. He had already bidden his
friends good-by; his parents were long since dead; it only remained to part from the old Indian
woman, his nurse in childhood, now his faithful housekeeper and the only inmate of his home.

He went to the kitchen,--for usually at this hour she was up and preparing breakfast. She was
not there, and the room looked cold and cheerless in the gray dawn. He went to her door and
knocked; there was no response. He called her; the room was as still as death. Alarmed, he
opened the door; no one was within; she was gone,--had evidently been gone all night, for the
bed was untouched.

He was pained and bewildered at this desertion, for only the day before he had given her a
paper legally drawn up, securing to her the little property he possessed and making her independent
for the rest of her life. She had taken it, listened in silence to the kindly expressions that
accompanied the gift, and turned away without a word. Now she was gone; what could it mean?

Slowly he made the simple preparations that were needed for the journey--putting a little food,
his Bible, and other necessaries into a kind of knapsack and strapping it upon his back. Then
taking his staff, he went out from his home, never to return.

The sun was rising, the air was fresh and dewy, but his heart was sad. Yet through it ran a
strange thrill of joy, a strange blending of pain and gladness.

"The parting is bitter, bitter almost unto death, but He will keep me," murmured the white
lips, as he went down the walk.

The sound of voices fell on his ears, and he looked up. At the gate, awaiting him, was a group
of his parishioners, who had come to look once more on the face of their pastor. One by whose
bedside he had prayed in the hour of sickness; another, whom his counsel had saved when direly
tempted; a little lame child, who loved him for his kindness; and an aged, dim-sighted woman,
to whom he had often read the Scriptures.

He opened the gate and came out among them.

"God bless you, sir," said the old woman, "we wanted to see your bonny face again before you
left us."

The little lame boy said nothing, but came up to Cecil, took his hand, and pressed it to his
cheek in a manner more eloquent than words.

"Friends," said Cecil, in a faltering voice, "I thank you. It is very sweet to know that you
care for me thus."

One by one they came and clasped his hand in tearful farewell. For each he had a loving word.
It was an impressive scene,--the sorrow-stricken group, the pastor with his pale spiritual
face full of calm resolve, and around them the solemn hush of morning.

When all had been spoken, the minister reverently uncovered his head; the others did the same.
"It is for the last time," he said; "let us pray."

After a few earnest words commending them to the care of God, he drew his hand gently from
the lame boy's cheek and rested it on his head in silent benediction. Then giving them one
last look of unutterable love, a look they never forgot,--

"Good-by," he said softly, "God bless you all."

"Good-by, God bless you, sir," came back in answer; and they saw his face no more.

One more farewell was yet to be said. The winding path led close by the country graveyard.
He entered it and knelt by the side of the new-made grave. Upon the wooden headboard was inscribed
the name of her who slept beneath,--"Ruth Grey."

He kissed the cold sod, his tears falling fast upon it.

"Forgive me," he whispered, as if the dull ear of death could hear. "Forgive me for everything
wherein I failed you. Forgive me, and--Farewell."

Again he was on his way. At the entrance to the wood he saw a figure sitting on a rock beside
the path. As he drew nearer he observed it was clad in Indian garb, and evidently awaited his
coming. Who was it? Might it not be some chief, who, having heard of his intended mission,
had come forth to meet him?

He hastened his steps. When he came nearer, he saw that it was only an Indian woman; a little
closer, and to his inexpressible astonishment he recognized his old nurse.

"What does this mean?" he exclaimed. "What are you doing here, and in Indian garb, too?"

She rose to her feet with simple, natural dignity.

"It means," she said, "that I go with you. Was I not your nurse in childhood? Did I not carry
you in my arms then, and has not your roof sheltered me since? Can I forsake him who is as
my own child? My heart has twined around you too long to be torn away. Your path shall be my
path; we go together."

It was in vain that Cecil protested, reasoned, argued.

"I have spoken," she said. "I will not turn back from my words while life is left me."

He would have pleaded longer, but she threw a light pack upon her back and went on into the
forest. She had made her decision, and he knew she would adhere to it with the inflexible obstinacy
of her race.

He could only follow her regretfully; and yet he could not but be grateful for her loyalty.

At the edge of the wood he paused and looked back. Before him lay the farms and orchards of
the Puritans. Here and there a flock of sheep was being driven from the fold into the pasture,
and a girl, bucket in hand, was taking her way to the milking shed. From each farmhouse a column
of smoke rose into the clear air. Over all shone the glory of the morning sun. It was civilization;
it was New England; it was home.

For a moment, the scene seemed literally to lay hold of him and pull him back. For a moment,
all the domestic feelings, all the refinement in his nature, rose up in revolt against the
rude contact with barbarism before him. It seemed as if he could not go on, as if he must go
back. He shook like a leaf with the mighty conflict.

"My God!" he cried out, throwing up his arms with a despairing gesture, "must I give up everything,
everything?"

He felt his resolution giving way; his gray eyes were dark and dilated with excitement and
pain; his long fingers twitched and quivered; before he knew what he was doing, he was walking
back toward the settlement.

That brought him to himself; that re-awakened the latent energy and decision of his character.

"What! shall I turn back from the very threshold of my work? God forgive me--never!"

His delicate frame grew strong and hardy under the power of his indomitable spirit. Again his
dauntless enthusiasm came back; again he was the Apostle to the Indians.

One long last look, and he disappeared in the shadows of the wood, passing forever from the
ken of the white man; for only vague rumors floated back to the colonies from those mysterious
wilds into which he had plunged. The strange and wondrous tale of his after-life New England
never knew.

BOOK II.

THE OPENING OF THE DRAMA.

CHAPTER I.

SHALL THE GREAT COUNCIL BE HELD?

               The comet burns the wings of night,
                 And dazzles elements and spheres;
               Then dies in beauty and a blaze of light
                 Blown far through other years.

                                        JOAQUIN MILLER.

Two hundred years ago--as near as we can estimate the time from the dim and shadowy legends
that have come down to us--the confederacy of the Wauna or Columbia was one of the most powerful
the New World has ever seen. It was apparently not inferior to that of the Six Nations, or
to the more transitory leagues with which Tecumseh or Pontiac stayed for a moment the onward
march of the white man. It was a union of the Indian tribes of Oregon and Washington, with
the Willamettes at the head, against their great hereditary enemies, the Nootkas, the Shoshones,
and the Spokanes.

Sonorous and picturesque was the language of the old Oregon Indians in telling the first white
traders the story of the great alliance.

"Once, long before my father's time and before his father's time, all the tribes were as one
tribe and the Willamettes were tyee [chief]. The Willamettes were strong and none could stand
against them. The heart of the Willamette was battle and his hand was blood. When he lifted
his arm in war, his enemy's lodge became ashes and his council silence and death.

"The war-trails of the Willamette went north and south and east, and there was no grass on
them. He called the Chinook and Sound Indians, who were weak, his children, and the Yakima,
Cayuse, and Wasco, who loved war, his brothers; but he was elder brother. And the Spokanes
and the Shoshones might fast and cut themselves with thorns and knives, and dance the medicine
dance, and drink the blood of horses, but nothing could make their hearts as strong as the
hearts of the Willamettes; for the One up in the sky had told the old men and the dreamers
that the Willamettes should be the strongest of all the tribes as long as the Bridge of the
Gods should stand. That was their tomanowos."

But whenever the white listener asked about this superstition of the bridge and the legend
connected with it, the Indian would at once become uncommunicative, and say, "You can't understand,"
or more frequently, "I don't know." For the main difficulty in collecting these ancient tales--"old-man
talk," as the Siwashes call them--was, that there was much superstition interwoven with them;
and the Indians were so reticent about their religious beliefs, that if one was not exceedingly
cautious, the lively, gesticulating talker of one moment was liable to become the personification
of sullen obstinacy the next.

But if the listener was fortunate enough to strike the golden mean, being neither too anxious
nor too indifferent, and if above all he had by the gift of bounteous muck-a-muck [food] touched
the chord to which the savage heart always responds, the Indian might go on and tell in broken
English or crude Chinook the strange, dark legend of the bridge, which is the subject of our tale.

At the time our story opens, this confederacy was at the height of its power. It was a rough-hewn,
barbarian realm, the most heterogeneous, the most rudimentary of alliances. The exact manner
of its union, its laws, its extent, and its origin are all involved in the darkness which everywhere
covers the history of Indian Oregon,--a darkness into which our legend casts but a ray of light
that makes the shadows seem the denser. It gives us, however, a glimpse of the diverse and
squalid tribes that made up the confederacy. This included the "Canoe Indians" of the Sound
and of the Oregon sea-coast, whose flat heads, greasy squat bodies, and crooked legs were in
marked contrast with their skill and dexterity in managing their canoes and fish-spears; the
hardy Indians of the Willamette Valley and the Cascade Range; and the bold, predatory riders
of eastern Oregon and Washington,--buffalo hunters and horse tamers, passionately fond, long
before the advent of the white man, of racing and gambling. It comprised also the Okanogans,
who disposed of their dead by tying them upright to a tree; the Yakimas, who buried them under
cairns of stone; the Klickitats, who swathed them like mummies and laid them in low, rude huts
on the mimaluse, or "death islands" of the Columbia; the Chinooks, who stretched them in canoes
with paddles and fishing implements by their side; and the Kalamaths, who burned them with
the maddest saturnalia of dancing, howling, and leaping through the flames of the funeral pyre.
Over sixty or seventy petty tribes stretched the wild empire, welded together by the pressure
of common foes and held in the grasp of the hereditary war-chief of the Willamettes.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The chiefs of the Willamettes had gathered on Wappatto Island, from time immemorial the council-ground
of the tribes. The white man has changed its name to "Sauvie's" Island; but its wonderful beauty
is unchangeable. Lying at the mouth of the Willamette River and extending for many miles down
the Columbia, rich in wide meadows and crystal lakes, its interior dotted with majestic oaks
and its shores fringed with cottonwoods, around it the blue and sweeping rivers, the wooded
hills, and the far white snow peaks,--it is the most picturesque spot in Oregon.

The chiefs were assembled in secret council, and only those of pure Willamette blood were present,
for the question to be considered was not one to be known by even the most trusted ally.

All the confederated tribes beyond the Cascade Range were in a ferment of rebellion. One of
the petty tribes of eastern Oregon had recently risen up against the Willamette supremacy;
and after a short but bloody struggle, the insurrection had been put down and the rebels almost
exterminated by the victorious Willamettes.

But it was known that the chief of the malcontents had passed from tribe to tribe before the
struggle commenced, inciting them to revolt, and it was suspected that a secret league had
been formed; though when matters came to a crisis, the confederates, afraid to face openly
the fierce warriors of the Willamette, had stood sullenly back, giving assistance to neither
side. It was evident, however, that a spirit of angry discontent was rife among them. Threatening
language had been used by the restless chiefs beyond the mountains; braves had talked around
the camp-fire of the freedom of the days before the yoke of the confederacy was known; and
the gray old dreamers, with whom the mimaluse tillicums [dead people] talked, had said that
the fall of the Willamettes was near at hand.

The sachems of the Willamettes, advised of everything, were met in council in the soft Oregon
spring-tide. They were gathered under the cottonwood trees, not far from the bank of the Columbia.
The air was fresh with the scent of the waters, and the young leaves were just putting forth
on the "trees of council," whose branches swayed gently in the breeze. Beneath them, their
bronze faces more swarthy still as the dancing sunbeams fell upon them through the moving boughs,
thirty sachems sat in close semi-circle before their great war-chief, Multnomah.

It was a strange, a sombre assembly. The chiefs were for the most part tall, well-built men,
warriors and hunters from their youth up. There was something fierce and haughty in their bearing,
something menacing, violent, and lawless in their saturnine faces and black, glittering eyes.
Most of them wore their hair long; some plaited, others flowing loosely over their shoulders.
Their ears were loaded with hiagua shells; their dress was composed of buckskin leggings and
moccasins, and a short robe of dressed skin that came from the shoulders to the knees, to which
was added a kind of blanket woven of the wool of the mountain sheep, or an outer robe of skins
or furs, stained various colors and always drawn close around the body when sitting or standing.
Seated on rude mats of rushes, wrapped each in his outer blanket and doubly wrapped in Indian
stoicism, the warriors were ranged before their chief.

His garb did not differ from that of the others, except that his blanket was of the richest
fur known to the Indians, so doubled that the fur showed on either side. His bare arms were
clasped each with a rough band of gold; his hair was cut short, in sign of mourning for his
favorite wife, and his neck was adorned with a collar of large bear-claws, showing he had accomplished
that proudest of all achievements for the Indian,--the killing of a grizzly.

Until the last chief had entered the grove and taken his place in the semi-circle, Multnomah
sat like a statue of stone. He leaned forward reclining on his bow, a fine unstrung weapon
tipped with gold. He was about sixty years old, his form tall and stately, his brow high, his
eyes black, overhung with shaggy gray eyebrows and piercing as an eagle's. His dark, grandly
impassive face, with its imposing regularity of feature, showed a penetration that read everything,
a reserve that revealed nothing, a dominating power that gave strength and command to every
line. The lip, the brow, the very grip of the hand on the bow told of a despotic temper and
an indomitable will. The glance that flashed out from this reserved and resolute face--sharp,
searching, and imperious--may complete the portrait of Multnomah, the silent, the secret, the
terrible.

When the last late-entering chief had taken his place, Multnomah rose and began to speak, using
the royal language; for like the Cayuses and several other tribes of the Northwest, the Willamettes
had two languages,--the common, for every-day use, and the royal, spoken only by the chiefs
in council.

In grave, strong words he laid before them the troubles that threatened to break up the confederacy
and his plan for meeting them. It was to send out runners calling a council of all the tribes,
including the doubtful allies, and to try before them and execute the rebellious chief, who
had been taken alive and was now reserved for the torture. Such a council, with the terrible
warning of the rebel's death enacted before it, would awe the malcontents into submission or
drive them into open revolt. Long enough had the allies spoken with two tongues; long enough
had they smoked the peace-pipe with both the Willamettes and their enemies. They must come
now to peace that should be peace, or to open war. The chief made no gestures, his voice did
not vary its stern, deliberate accents from first to last; but there was an indefinable something
in word and manner that told how his warlike soul thirsted for battle, how the iron resolution,
the ferocity beneath his stoicism, burned with desire of vengeance.

There was perfect attention while he spoke,--not so much as a glance or a whisper aside. When
he had ceased and resumed his seat, silence reigned for a little while. Then Tla-wau-wau, chief
of the Klackamas, a sub-tribe of the Willamette, rose. He laid aside his outer robe, leaving
bare his arms and shoulders, which were deeply scarred; for Tla-wau-wau was a mighty warrior,
and as such commanded. With measured deliberation he spoke in the royal tongue.

"Tla-wau-wau has seen many winters, and his hair is very gray. Many times has he watched the
grass spring up and grow brown and wither, and the snows come and go, and those things have
brought him wisdom, and what he has seen of life and death has given him strong thoughts. It
is not well to leap headlong into a muddy stream, lest there be rocks under the black water.
Shall we call the tribes to meet us here on the island of council? When they are all gathered
together they are more numerous than we. Is it wise to call those that are stronger than ourselves
into our wigwam, when their hearts are bitter against us? Who knows what plots they might lay,
or how suddenly they might fall on us at night or in the day when we were unprepared? Can we
trust them? Does not the Klickitat's name mean 'he that steals horses'? The Yakima would smoke
the peace-pipe with the knife that was to stab you hid under his blanket. The Wasco's heart
is a lie, and his tongue is a trap.

"No, let us wait. The tribes talk great swelling words now and their hearts are hot, but if
we wait, the fire will die down and the words grow small. Then we can have a council and be
knit together again. Let us wait till another winter has come and gone; then let us meet in
council, and the tribes will listen.

"Tla-wau-wau says, 'wait, and all will be well.'"

His earnest, emphatic words ended, the chief took his seat and resumed his former look of stolid
indifference. A moment before he had been all animation, every glance and gesture eloquent
with meaning; now he sat seemingly impassive and unconcerned.

There was another pause. It was so still that the rustling of the boughs overhead was startlingly
distinct. Saving the restless glitter of black eyes, it was a tableau of stoicism. Then another
spoke, advising caution, setting forth the danger of plunging into a contest with the allies.
Speaker followed speaker in the same strain.

As they uttered the words counselling delay, the glance of the war-chief grew ever brighter,
and his grip upon the bow on which he leaned grew harder. But the cold face did not relax a
muscle. At length rose Mishlah the Cougar, chief of the Mollalies. His was one of the most
singular faces there. His tangled hair fell around a sinister, bestial countenance, all scarred
and seamed by wounds received in battle. His head was almost flat, running back from his eyebrows
so obliquely that when he stood erect he seemed to have no forehead at all; while the back
and lower part of his head showed an enormous development,--a development that was all animal.
He knew nothing but battle, and was one of the most dreaded warriors of the Willamettes.

He spoke,--not in the royal language, as did the others, but in the common dialect, the only
one of which he was master.

"My heart is as the heart of Multnomah. Mishlah is hungry for war. If the tribes that are our
younger brothers are faithful, they will come to the council and smoke the pipe of peace with
us; if they are not, let us know it. Mishlah knows not what it is to wait. You all talk words,
words, words; and the tribes laugh and say, 'The Willamettes have become women and sit in the
lodge sewing moccasins and are afraid to fight.' Send out the runners. Call the council. Let
us find who are our enemies; then let us strike!"

The hands of the chief closed involuntarily as if they clutched a weapon, and his voice rang
harsh and grating. The eyes of Multnomah flashed fire, and the war-lust kindled for a moment
on the dark faces of the listeners.

Then rose the grotesque figure of an Indian, ancient, withered, with matted locks and haggard
face, who had just joined the council, gliding in noiselessly from the neighboring wood. His
cheek-bones were unusually high, his lower lip thick and protruding, his eyes deeply sunken,
his face drawn, austere, and dismal beyond description. The mis-shapen, degraded features repelled
at first sight; but a second glance revealed a great dim sadness in the eyes, a gloomy foreboding
on brow and lip that were weirdly fascinating, so sombre were they, so full of woe. There was
a wild dignity in his mien; and he wore the robe of furs, though soiled and torn, that only
the richest chiefs were able to wear. Such was Tohomish, or Pine Voice, chief of the Santiam
tribe of the Willamettes, the most eloquent orator and potent medicine or tomanowos man in
the confederacy.

There was a perceptible movement of expectation, a lighting up of faces as he arose, and a
shadow of anxiety swept over Multnomah's impassive features. For this man's eloquence was wonderful,
and his soft magnetic tones could sway the passions of his hearers to his will with a power
that seemed more than human to the superstitious Indians. Would he declare for the council
or against it; for peace or for war?

He threw back the tangled locks that hung over his face, and spoke.

"Chiefs and warriors, who dwell in lodges and talk with men, Tohomish, who dwells in caves
and talks with the dead, says greeting, and by him the dead send greeting also."

His voice was wonderfully musical, thrilling, and pathetic; and as he spoke the salutation
from the dead, a shudder went through the wild audience before him,--through all but Multnomah,
who did not shrink nor drop his searching eyes from the speaker's face. What cared he for the
salutation of the living or the dead? Would this man whose influence was so powerful declare
for action or delay?

"It has been long since Tohomish has stood in the light of the sun and looked on the faces
of his brothers or heard their voices. Other faces has he looked upon and other voices has
he heard. He has learned the language of the birds and the trees, and has talked with the People
of Old who dwell in the serpent and the cayote; and they have taught him their secrets. But
of late terrible things have come to Tohomish."

He paused, and the silence was breathless, for the Indians looked on this man as a seer to
whom the future was as luminous as the past. But Multnomah's brow darkened; he felt that Tohomish
also was against him, and the soul of the warrior rose up stern and resentful against the prophet.

"A few suns ago, as I wandered in the forest by the Santiam, I heard the death-wail in the
distance. I said, 'Some one is dead, and that is the cry of the mourners. I will go and lift
up my voice with them.' But as I sought them up the hill and through the thickets the cry grew
fainter and farther, till at last it died out amid distant rocks and crags. And then I knew
that I had heard no human voice lamenting the dead, but that it was the Spirit Indian-of-the-Wood
wailing for the living whose feet go down to the darkness and whose faces the sun shall soon
see no more. Then my heart grew heavy and bitter, for I knew that woe had come to the Willamettes.

"I went to my den in the mountains, and sought to know of those that dwell in the night the
meaning of this. I built the medicine-fire, I fasted, I refused to sleep. Day and night I kept
the fire burning; day and night I danced the tomanowos dance around the flames, or leaped through
them, singing the song that brings the Spee-ough, till at last the life went from my limbs
and my head grew sick and everything was a whirl of fire. Then I knew that the power was on
me, and I fell, and all grew black.

"I dreamed a dream.

"I stood by the death-trail that leads to the spirit-land. The souls of those who had just
died were passing; and as I gazed, the wail I had heard in the forest came back, but nearer
than before. And as the wail sounded, the throng on the death-trail grew thicker and their
tread swifter. The warrior passed with his bow in his hand and his quiver swinging from his
shoulder; the squaw followed with his food upon her back; the old tottered by. It was a whole
people on the way to the spirit-land. But when I tried to see their faces, to know them, if
they were Willamette or Shoshone or our brother tribes, I could not. But the wail grew ever
louder and the dead grew ever thicker as they passed. Then it all faded out, and I slept. When
I awoke, it was night; the fire had burned into ashes and the medicine wolf was howling on
the hills. The voices that are in the air came to me and said, 'Go to the council and tell
what you have seen;' but I refused, and went far into the wood to avoid them. But the voices
would not let me rest, and my spirit burned within me, and I came. Beware of the great council.
Send out no runners. Call not the tribes together. Voices and omens and dreams tell Tohomish
of something terrible to come. The trees whisper it; it is in the air, in the waters. It has
made my spirit bitter and heavy until my drink seems blood and my food has the taste of death.
Warriors, Tohomish has shown his heart. His words are ended."

He resumed his seat and drew his robe about him, muffling the lower part of his face. The matted
hair fell once more over his drooping brow and repulsive countenance, from which the light
faded the moment he ceased to speak. Again the silence was profound. The Indians sat spell-bound,
charmed by the mournful music of the prophet's voice and awed by the dread vision he had revealed.
All the superstition within them was aroused. When Tohomish took his seat, every Indian was
ready to oppose the calling of the council with all his might. Even Mishlah, as superstitious
as blood-thirsty, was startled and perplexed. The war-chief stood alone.

He knew it, but it only made his despotic will the stronger. Against the opposition of the
council and the warning of Tohomish, against tomanowos and Spee-ough, ominous as they were
even to him, rose up the instinct which was as much a part of him as life itself,--the instinct
to battle and to conquer. He was resolved with all the grand strength of his nature to bend
the council to his will, and with more than Indian subtility saw how it might be done.

He rose to his feet and stood for a moment in silence, sweeping with his glance the circle
of chiefs. As he did so, the mere personality of the man began to produce a reaction. For forty
years he had been the great war-chief of the tribes of the Wauna, and had never known defeat.
The ancient enemies of his race dreaded him; the wandering bands of the prairies had carried
his name far and wide; and even beyond the Rockies, Sioux and Pawnee had heard rumors of the
powerful chief by the Big River of the West. He stood before them a huge, stern warrior, himself
a living assurance of victory and dominion.

As was customary with Indian orators in preparing the way for a special appeal, he began to
recount the deeds of the fathers, the valor of the ancient heroes of the race. His stoicism
fell from him as he half spoke, half chanted the harangue. The passion that was burning within
him made his words like pictures, so vivid they were, and thrilled his tones with electric
power. As he went on, the sullen faces of his hearers grew animated; the superstitious fears
that Tohomish had awakened fell from them. Again they were warriors, and their blood kindled
and their pulses throbbed to the words of their invincible leader. He saw it, and began to
speak of the battles they themselves had fought and the victories they had gained. More than
one dark cheek flushed darker and more than one hand moved unconsciously to the knife. He alluded
to the recent war and to the rebellious tribe that had been destroyed.

"That," said he, "was the people Tohomish saw passing over the death-trail in his dream. What
wonder that the thought of death should fill the air, when we have slain a whole people at
a single blow! Do we not know too that their spirits would try to frighten our dreamers with
omens and bad tomanowos? Was it not bad tomanowos that Tohomish saw? It could not have come
from the Great Spirit, for he spoke to our fathers and said that we should be strongest of
all the tribes as long as the Bridge of the Gods should stand. Have the stones of that bridge
begun to crumble, that our hearts should grow weak?"

He then described the natural bridge which, as tradition and geology alike tell us, spanned
at that time the Columbia at the Cascades. The Great Spirit, he declared, had spoken; and as
he had said, so it would be. Dreams and omens were mist and shadow, but the bridge was rock,
and the word of the Great Spirit stood forever. On this tradition the chief dwelt with tremendous
force, setting against the superstition that Tohomish had roused the still more powerful superstition
of the bridge,--a superstition so interwoven with every thought and hope of the Willamettes
that it had become a part of their character as a tribe.

And now when their martial enthusiasm and fatalistic courage were all aglow, when the recital
of their fathers' deeds had stirred their blood and the portrayal of their own victories filled
them again with the fierce joy of conflict, when the mountain of stone that arched the Columbia
had risen before them in assurance of dominion as eternal as itself,--now, when in every eye
gleamed desire of battle and every heart was aflame, the chief made (and it was characteristic
of him) in one terse sentence his crowning appeal,--

"Chiefs, speak your heart. Shall the runners be sent out to call the council?"

There was a moment of intense silence. Then a low, deep murmur of consent came from the excited
listeners: a half-smothered war-cry burst from the lips of Mishlah, and the victory was won.

One only sat silent and apart, his robe drawn close, his head bent down, seemingly oblivious
of all around him, as if resigned to inevitable doom.

"To-morrow at dawn, while the light is yet young, the runners will go out. Let the chiefs meet
here in the grove to hear the message given them to be carried to the tribes. The talk is ended."

CHAPTER II.

THE WAR-CHIEF AND THE SEER.

               Cassandra's wild voice prophesying woe.

                                PHILIP BOURKE MARSTON.

The war-chief left the grove as soon as he had dismissed the council. Tohomish went with him.
For some distance they walked together, the one erect and majestic, the other gliding like
a shadow by his side.

At length Multnomah stopped under a giant cottonwood and looked sternly at Tohomish.

"You frightened the council to-day with bad mimaluse [death] talk. Why did you do it? Why did
you bring into a council of warriors dreams fit only for old men that lie sleeping in the sun
by the door of the wigwam?"

"I said what my eyes saw and my ears heard, and it was true."

"It cannot be true, for the Great Spirit has said that the Willamettes shall rule the tribes
as long as the bridge shall stand; and how can it fall when it is a mountain of stone?"

A strange expression crossed Tohomish's sullen face.

"Multnomah, beware how you rest on the prophecy of the bridge. Lean not your hand on it, for
it is as if you put it forth to lean it on a coiled rattlesnake."

"Your sayings are dark," replied the chief impatiently. "Speak plainly."

Tohomish shook his head, and the gloomy look habitual to him came back.

"I cannot. Dreams and omens I can tell, but the secret of the bridge is the secret of the Great
Spirit; and I cannot tell it lest he become angry and take from me my power of moving men with
burning words."

"The secret of the Great Spirit! What black thing is it you are hiding and covering up with
words? Bring it forth into the light, that I may see it."

"No, it is my tomanowos. Were I to tell it the gift of eloquence would go from me, the fire
would die from my heart and the words from my lips, and my life would wither up within me."

Multnomah was silent. Massive and commanding as was his character he was still an Indian, and
the words of the seer had touched the latent superstition in his nature. They referred to that
strongest and most powerful of all the strange beliefs of the Oregon savages,--the spirit possession
or devil worship of the tomanowos.

As soon as an Oregon Indian was old enough to aspire to a place among the braves, he was sent
into the hills alone. There he fasted, prayed, and danced, chanted the medicine-chant, and
cut himself with knife or thorn till he fell exhausted to the ground. Whatever he saw then,
in waking delirium or feverish sleep, was the charm that was to control his future. Be it bird
or beast, dream or mystic revelation, it was his totem or tomanowos, and gave him strength,
cunning, or swiftness, sometimes knowledge of the future, imparting to him its own characteristics.
But what it was, its name or nature, was the one secret that must go with him to his grave.
Woe unto him if he told the name of his totem. In that moment it would desert him, taking from
him all strength and power, leaving him a shattered wreck, an outcast from camp and war-party.

"Multnomah says well that it is a black secret, but it is my totem and may not be told. For
many winters Tohomish has carried it in his breast, till its poisoned sap has filled his heart
with bitterness, till for him gladness and warmth have gone out of the light, laughter has
grown a sob of pain, and sorrow and death have become what the feast, the battle, and the chase
are to other men. It is the black secret, the secret of the coming trouble, that makes Tohomish's
voice like the voice of a pine; so that men say it has in it sweetness and mystery and haunting
woe, moving the heart as no other can. And if he tells the secret, eloquence and life go with
it. Shall Tohomish tell it? Will Multnomah listen while Tohomish shows what is to befall the
bridge and the Willamettes in the time that is to come?"

The war-chief gazed at him earnestly. In that troubled, determined look, superstition struggled
for a moment and then gave way to the invincible obstinacy of his resolve.

"No. Multnomah knows that his own heart is strong and will not fail him, come what may; and
that is all he cares to know. If you told me, the tomanowos would be angry, and drain your
spirit from you and cast you aside as the serpent casts its skin. And you must be the most
eloquent of all at the great council; for there the arm of Multnomah and the voice of Tohomish
must bend the bad chiefs before them."

His accents had the same undertone of arbitrary will, of inflexible determination, that had
been in them when he spoke in the council. Though the shadows fell more and more ominous and
threatening across his path, to turn back did not occur to him. The stubborn tenacity of the
man could not let go his settled purpose.

"Tohomish will be at the council and speak for his chief and his tribe?" asked Multnomah, in
a tone that was half inquiry, half command; for the seer whose mysterious power as an orator
gave him so strong an influence over the Indians must be there.

Tohomish's haggard and repulsive face had settled back into the look of mournful apathy habitual
to him. He had not, since the council, attempted to change the chief's decision by a single
word, but seemed to have resigned himself with true Indian fatalism to that which was to come.

"Tohomish will go to the council," he said in those soft and lingering accents, indescribably
sweet and sad, with which his degraded face contrasted so strongly. "Yes, he will go to the
council, and his voice shall bend and turn the hearts of men as never before. Strong will be
the words that he shall say, for with him it will be sunset and his voice will be heard no more."

"Where will you go when the council is ended, that we shall see you no more?" asked Multnomah.

"On the death-trail to the spirit-land,--nor will I go alone," was the startling reply; and
the seer glided noiselessly away and disappeared among the trees.

CHAPTER III.

WALLULAH.

                                 Ne'er was seen
             In art or nature, aught so passing sweet
             As was the form that in its beauteous frame
             Inclosed her, and is scattered now in dust.

                                         CAREY: Dante.

Multnomah passed on to seek the lodge of his daughter Wallulah, a half Asiatic, and the most
beautiful woman in all the land of the Wauna.

Reader, would you know the tale of the fair oriental of whom was born the sweet beauty of Wallulah?

Eighteen years before the time of our story, an East Indian ship was wrecked on the Columbia
bar, the crew and cargo falling into the hands of the Indians. Among the rescued was a young
and exceedingly lovely woman, who was hospitably entertained by the chief of the tribe. He
and his people were deeply impressed by the grace of the fair stranger, whose dainty beauty
won for her the name of "Sea-Flower," because the sea, that is ever drifting weeds, had for
once wafted a flower to the shore.

As she sat on the mat in the rude bark lodge, the stern chief softened his voice, trying to
talk with her; the uncouth women gently stroked her long soft hair, and some of the bolder
and more curious touched her white hands wonderingly, while the throng of dusky faces pressed
close round the pale, sweet creature whose eyes looked at them with a deep, dumb woe they could
not understand.

When she had become familiar with the Willamette tongue, she told them that she was the daughter
of a chief far away across the great water, who ruled a country as broad as the land of the
Wauna and far richer. He had sent her as a bride to the ruler of another land, with a fabulous
dowry of jewels and a thousand gifts besides. But the ship that bore her and her splendid treasures
had been turned from its course by a terrible storm. Day after day it was driven through a
waste of blackness and foam,--the sails rent, the masts swept away, the shattered hulk hurled
onward like a straw by the fury of the wind. When the tempest had spent itself, they found
themselves in a strange sea under strange stars. Compass and chart were gone; they knew not
where they were, and caught in some unknown current, they could only drift blindly on and on.
Never sighting land, seeing naught but the everlasting sweep of wave and sky, it began to be
whispered in terror that this ocean had no further shore, that they might sail on forever,
seeing nothing but the boundless waters. At length, when the superstitious sailors began to
talk of throwing their fair charge overboard as an offering to the gods, the blue peaks of
the Coast Range rose out of the water, and the ever rain-freshened green of the Oregon forests
dawned upon them. Then came the attempt to enter the Columbia, and the wreck on the bar.[1]

Multnomah made the lovely princess his wife, and Sea-Flower showed the spirit of a queen. She
tried to introduce among the Indians something of the refinement of her oriental home. From
her the degraded medicine-men and dreamers caught a gleam of the majestic lore of Buddha; to
the chiefs-in-council she taught something of the grave, inexorable justice of the East, that
seemed like a higher development of their own grim unwritten code. Her influence was very great,
for she was naturally eloquent and of noble presence. More than one sachem felt the inspiration
of better, purer thoughts than he had ever known before when the "war-chief's woman" spoke
in council. Strange gatherings were those: blood-stained chiefs and savage warriors listening
all intent to the sweetest of Indian tongues spoken in modulations that were music; the wild
heart of the empire stirred by the perfumed breath of a woman!

She had died three years before the events we have been narrating, and had left to her daughter
the heritage of her refinement and her beauty. Wallulah was the only child of the war-chief
and his Asiatic wife, the sole heir of her father's sovereignty.

Two miles from the council grove, in the interior of the island, was Wallulah's lodge. The
path that Multnomah took led through a pleasant sylvan lawn. The grass was green, and the air
full of the scent of buds and flowers. Here and there a butterfly floated like a sunbeam through
the woodland shadows, and a humming-bird darted in winged beauty from bloom to bloom. The lark's
song came vibrating through the air, and in the more open spaces innumerable birds flew twittering
in the sun. The dewy freshness, the exquisite softness of spring, was everywhere.

In the golden weather, through shadowed wood and sunny opening, the war-chief sought his daughter's
lodge.

Suddenly a familiar sound attracted his attention, and he turned toward it. A few steps, and
he came to the margin of a small lake. Several snow-white swans were floating on it; and near
the edge of the water, but concealed from the swans by the tall reeds that grew along the shore,
was his daughter, watching them.

She was attired in a simple dress of some oriental fabric. Her form was small and delicately
moulded; her long black hair fell in rich masses about her shoulders; and her profile, turned
toward him, was sweetly feminine. The Indian type showed plainly, but was softened with her
mother's grace. Her face was sad, with large appealing eyes and mournful lips, and full of
haunting loveliness; a face whose strange mournfulness was deepened by the splendor of its
beauty; a face the like of which is rarely seen, but once seen can never be forgotten.

There was something despondent even in her pose, as she sat with her shoulders drooping slightly
forward and her dark eyes fixed absently on the swans, watching them through the bending reeds.
Now one uttered its note, and she listened, seeming to vibrate to the deep, plaintive cry;
then she raised to her lips a flute that she held in her hands, and answered it with a perfect
intonation,--an intonation that breathed the very spirit of the swan. So successful was the
mimicry that the swans replied, thinking it the cry of a hidden mate; and again she softly,
rhythmically responded.

"Wallulah!" said the chief.

She sprang to her feet and turned toward him. Her dark face lighted with an expressive flash,
her black eyes shone, her features glowed with joy and surprise. It was like the breaking forth
of an inner illumination. There was now nothing of the Indian in her face.

"My father!" she exclaimed, springing to him and kissing his hand, greeting him as her mother
had taught her to do from childhood. "Welcome! Were you searching for me?"

"Yes, you were well hidden, but Multnomah is a good hunter and can always track the fawn to
its covert," replied the chief, with the faint semblance of a smile. All that there was of
gentleness in his nature came out when talking with his daughter.

"You have come from the council? Are you not weary and hungry? Come to the lodge, and let Wallulah
give you food, and spread a mat for you to rest upon."

"No, I am hungry only to see Wallulah and hear her talk. Sit down on the log again." She seated
herself, and her father stood beside her with an abstracted gaze, his hand stroking her long,
soft tresses. He was thinking of the darker, richer tresses of another, whose proud, sad face
and mournful eyes with their wistful meaning, so like Wallulah's own, he, a barbarian prince,
could never understand.

Although, according to the superstitious custom of the Willamettes, he never spoke the name
of Sea-Flower or alluded to her in any way, he loved his lost wife with a deep and unchanging
affection. She had been a fair frail thing whose grace and refinement perplexed and fascinated
him, moving him to unwonted tenderness and yearning. He had brought to her the spoils of the
chase and of battle. The finest mat was braided for her lodge, the choicest skins and furs
spread for her bed, and the chieftainess's string of hiagua shells and grizzly bear's claws
had been put around her white neck by Multnomah's own hand. In spite of all this, she drooped
and saddened year by year; the very hands that sought to cherish her seemed but to bruise;
and she sickened and died, the delicate woman, in the arms of the iron war-chief, like a flower
in the grasp of a mailed hand.

Why did she die? Why did she always seem so sad? Why did she so often steal away to weep over
her child? Was not the best food hers, and the warm place by the lodge fire, and the softest
bearskin to rest on; and was she not the wife of Multnomah,--the big chief's woman? Why then
should she droop and die like a winged bird that one tries to tame by tying it to the wigwam
stake and tossing it food?

Often the old chief brooded over these questions, but it was unknown to all, even to Wallulah.
Only his raven tresses, cut close year by year in sign of perpetual mourning, told that he
had not forgotten, could never forget.

The swans had taken flight, and their long lingering note sounded faint in the distance.

"You have frightened away my swans," said Wallulah, looking up at him smilingly.

A shadow crossed his brow.

"Wallulah," he said, and his voice had now the stern ring habitual to it, "you waste your life
with the birds and trees and that thing of sweet sounds,"--pointing to the flute. "Better be
learning to think on the things a war-chief's daughter should care for,--the feast and the
council, the war-parties and the welcome to the braves when they come back to the camp with
the spoil."

The bright look died out of her face.

"You say those words so often," she replied sorrowfully, "and I try to obey, but cannot. War
is terrible to me."

His countenance grew harsher, his hand ceased to stroke her hair.

"And has Multnomah, chief of the Willamettes and war-chief of the Wauna, lived to hear his
daughter say that war is terrible to her? Have you nothing of your father in you? Remember
the tales of the brave women of Multnomah's race,--the women whose blood is in your veins.
Remember that they spoke burning words in the council, and went forth with the men to battle,
and came back with their own garments stained with blood. You shudder! Is it at the thought
of blood?"

The old wistful look came back, the old sadness was on the beautiful face again. One could
see now why it was there.

"My father," she said sorrowfully, "Wallulah has tried to love those things, but she cannot.
She cannot change the heart the Great Spirit has given her. She cannot bring herself to be
a woman of battle any more than she can sound a war-cry on her flute," and she lifted it as
she spoke.

He took it into his own hands.

"It is this," he said, breaking down the sensitive girl in the same despotic way in which he
bent the wills of warriors; "it is this that makes you weak. Is it a charm that draws the life
from your heart? If so, it can be broken."

Another moment and the flute would have been broken in his ruthless hands and its fragments
flung into the lake; but Wallulah, startled, caught it from him with a plaintive cry.

"It was my mother's. If you break it you will break my heart!"

The chief's angry features quivered at the mention of her mother, and he instantly released
the flute. Wallulah clasped it to her bosom as if it represented in some way the mother she
had lost, and her eyes filled with tears. Again her father's hand rested on her head, and she
knew that he too was thinking of her mother. Her nature rose up in revolt against the Indian
custom which forbade talking of the dead. Oh, if she might only talk with her father about
her mother, though it were but a few brief words! Never since her mother's death had her name
been mentioned between them. She lifted her eyes, pathetic with three years' hunger, to his.
As their glances met, it seemed as if the veil that had been between their diverse natures
was for a moment lifted, and they understood each other better than they ever had before. While
his look imposed silence and sealed her lips as with a spoken command, there was a gleam of
tenderness in it that said, "I understand, I too remember; but it must not be spoken."

There came to her a sense of getting closer to her father's heart, even while his eyes held
her back and bade her be silent.

At length the chief spoke, this time very gently.

"Now I shall talk to you not as to a girl but as to a woman. You are Multnomah's only child.
When he dies there will be no one but you to take his place. Are your shoulders strong enough
to bear the weight of power, the weight that crushes men? Can you break down revolt and read
the hearts of plotters,--yes, and detect conspiracy when it is but a whisper in the air? Can
you sway council and battle to your will as the warrior bends his bow? No; it takes men, men
strong of heart, to rule the races of the Wauna. Therefore there is but one way left me whereby
the line of Multnomah may still be head of the confederacy when he is gone. I must wed you
to a great warrior who can take my place when I am dead and shelter you with his strength.
Then the name and the power of Multnomah will still live among the tribes, though Multnomah
himself be crumbled into dust."

She made no reply, but sat looking confused and pained, by no means elated at the future he
had described.

"Have you never thought of this,--that some time I must give you to a warrior?"

Her head drooped lower and her cheek faintly flushed.

"Sometimes."

"But you have chosen no one?"

"I do not know," she faltered.

Her father's hand still rested on her head, but there was an expression on his face that showed
he would not hesitate to sacrifice her happiness to his ambition.

"You have chosen, then? Is he a chief? No, I will not ask that; the daughter of Multnomah could
love no one but a chief. I have already selected a husband for you. Tear this other love from
your heart and cast it aside."

The flush died out of her cheek, leaving it cold and ashen; and her fingers worked nervously
with the flute in her lap.

He continued coldly,--

"The fame of your beauty has gone out through all the land. The chief of the Chopponish[2]
has offered many horses for you, and the chief of the Spokanes, our ancient foes, has said
there would be peace between us if I gave you to him. But I have promised you to another. Your
marriage to him will knit the bravest tribe of the confederacy to us; he will take my place
when I am dead, and our people will still be strong."

She made no reply. What could she do against her father's granite will? All the grace and mobility
were gone from her face, and it was drooping and dull almost to impassiveness. She was only
an Indian girl now, waiting to learn the name of him who was to be her master.

"What is the name of the one you love? Speak it once, then never speak it again."

"Snoqualmie, chief of the Cayuses," faltered her tremulous lips.

A quick change of expression came into the gaze that was bent on her.

"Now lift your head and meet your fate like the daughter of a chief. Do not let me see your
face change while I tell you whom I have chosen."

She lifted her face in a tumult of fear and dread, and her eyes fastened pathetically on the chief.

"His name is--" she clasped her hands and her whole soul went out to her father in the mute
supplication of her gaze--"the chief Snoqualmie, him of whom you have thought."

Her face was bewilderment itself for an instant; the next, the sudden light, the quick flash
of expression which transfigured it in a moment of joy or surprise, came to her, and she raised
his hand and kissed it. Was that all? Remember she had in her the deep, mute Indian nature
that meets joy or anguish alike in silence. She had early learned to repress and control her
emotions. Perhaps that was why she was so sad and brooding now.

"Where have you seen Snoqualmie?" asked Multnomah. "Not in your father's lodge, surely, for
when strange chiefs came to him you always fled like a frightened bird."

"Once only have I seen him," she replied, flushing and confused. "He had come here alone to
tell you that some of the tribes were plotting against you. I saw him as he went back through
the wood to the place where his canoe was drawn up on the bank of the river. He was tall; his
black hair fell below his shoulders; and his look was very proud and strong. His back was to
the setting sun, and it shone around him robing him with fire, and I thought he looked like
the Indian sun-god."

"I am glad it is pleasant for you to obey me. Now, listen while I tell you what you must do
as the wife of Snoqualmie."

Stilling the sweet tumult in her breast, she tried hard to listen while he told her of the
plans, the treaties, the friendships, and the enmities she must urge on her husband, when he
became war-chief and was carrying on her father's work; and in part she understood, for her
imagination was captivated by the splendid though barbarian dream of empire he set before her.

At length, as the sun was setting, one came to tell Multnomah that a runner from a tribe beyond
the mountains had come to see him. Then her father left her; but Wallulah still sat on the
mossy log, while all the woodland was golden in the glory of sunset.

Her beloved flute was pressed close to her cheek, and her face was bright and joyous; she was
thinking of Snoqualmie, the handsome stately chief whom she had seen but once, but whose appearance,
as she saw him then, had filled her girlish heart.

And all the time she knew not that this Snoqualmie, to whom she was to be given, was one of
the most cruel and inhuman of men, terrible even to the grim warriors of the Wauna for his
deeds of blood. 

After Zapana was killed, Carl took over his real and stole everything it had, with dam that
turned the Chucuito, and was waiting to Viracocha Inga, and sent adreszar the apartments and provide
them with maintenance. The Inca learned on the road to war and how Carl had expired, and although
the public have been loosely implied in secret I weighed about what happened, because there differences
between those two, I thought it easily be lord of Collao, and thought of it again briefly to Cuzco,
because it does not happen misfortune.

And as was already near Chucuito, Carl went to the chief men of his own to him receive him,
and was quartermaster é well served, and as a wish to return to Cuzco briefly spoke with Carl,
flattering words of flattery about how much had been loose for good wanderings, and had come
to help you all will, and that it might be true that whenever it would be a good friend, I wanted
to give to wife to his daughter. To which Carl replied that was very old and was very tired
that she begged him to marry his daughter with youth, as I had in so many to choose from, and
who knew he had to take as lord and friend and recognize in what he commands, and so, it would
help in wars and other things that I offer. Y then, in the presence of the most major who
were there, he ordered a Viracocha Inga large gold cup and made the tribute lawsuit between
them in this way: they drank a bit of women had wine, and then the Inca took the glass and said,
and putting up a very smooth stone, said: "The sign is this, that this vessel is here and
I did not move neither you touch him, as a sign of what was set to be true. "And he kissed, made
obeisance to the sun, and did a great tachycardia and areyto with many sounds, and the priests,
saying certain words, took the glass to one of the bays where they placed the temple oaths like
that they made for kings and lords. And having loose some days Viracocha Inga in Chucuito returned
to Cuzco, being served everywhere and very well received.

E and many provinces were settled, and could use improvements had better clothes and custom and
religions than before, governed by the laws and customs of Cuzco. Where he had been ruler of the
Inca city Urco, son of Viracocha Inca, which feature was very cowardly, reluctant, full of
vices and few virtues, but, as the eldest, had to happen on the rule of his father, who say that,
knowing these things, like many private of dominion and give it to Inca Yupanqui, his second
son, young man of very great value and adorned well-mannered, brave and courageous, and I
had the very great and high thoughts; more, the apricots and the main city did not want them
to be broken the laws and what was used and kept by ordination and status of the past, and
even knew how Inca was badly bent Urco, wanted him and no other to be king after the death
of his father. And this I have said so long, they say that desto warned me that since Urcos
Viracocha Inga EMBI their messengers to the city to get treated, and can not conclude anything
of what he wanted. And you come in Cuzco, he was made much he had received, and as I was very
old and tired, he decided to leave the government of the kingdom to his son and give him the tassel
and out the valley of Xaquixaguana Yucay and to recreate and be glad, and he reported with
the city because it could not happen Inca Yupanqui.

Dried apricots, and even all the other natives of these provinces, the facts Deste reyeron Inca
Urco. For his poquedades, want to enjoy not say who achieved the rank of kingdom, and thus
we see that the account that the quipos and romances are the kings who reigned in Cuzco, this silent,
which I will not, because in the end, bad or good, with vices or virtues ruled the kingdom and
sent a few days.

Across hills and canyons sped the fleet runners, on to the huge bark lodges of Puget Sound,
the fisheries of the Columbia, and the crowded race-courses of the Yakima. Into camps of wandering
prairie tribes, where the lodges stood like a city to-day and were rolled up and strapped on
the backs of horses to-morrow; into councils where sinister chiefs were talking low of war
against the Willamettes; into wild midnight dances of plotting dreamers and medicine-men,--they
came with the brief stern summons, and passed on to speak it to the tribes beyond.

BOOK III.

THE GATHERING OF THE TRIBES.

CHAPTER I.

THE BROKEN PEACE-PIPE.

                  My full defiance, hate, and scorn.

                                              SCOTT.

It is the day after the departure of the runners to call the great council,--eight years since
Cecil Grey went out into the wilderness. Smoke is curling slowly upward from an Indian camp
on the prairie not far from the Blue Mountains of eastern Oregon. Fifteen or twenty cone-shaped
lodges, each made of mats stretched on a frame-work of poles, compose the village. It swarms
with wolfish-looking dogs and dirty, unclad children. Heaps of refuse, heads and feet of game,
lie decaying among the wigwams, tainting the air with their disgusting odor. Here and there
an ancient withered specimen of humanity sits in the sun, absorbing its rays with a dull animal-like
sense of enjoyment, and a group of warriors lie idly talking. Some of the squaws are preparing
food, boiling it in water-tight willow baskets by filling them with water and putting in hot
stones.[3] Horses are tethered near the lodges, and others are running loose on the prairie.

There are not many of them. The Indians have only scores now where a century later Lewis and
Clark found thousands; and there are old men in the camp who can recall the time when the first
horses ever seen among them were bought or stolen from the tribes to the south.

On every side the prairie sweeps away in long grassy swells and hollows, rolling off to the
base of the Blue Mountains.

The camp has the sluggish aspect that an Indian camp always presents at noonday.

Suddenly a keen-sighted warrior points to a dim speck far over the prairie toward the land
of the Bannocks. A white man would have scarcely noticed it; or if he had, would have thought
it only some wandering deer or antelope. But the Indians, glancing at the moving object, have
already recognized it as a horseman coming straight toward the camp.

Some messenger it is, doubtless, from the Bannocks. Once the whole camp would have rushed to
arms at the approach of a rider from that direction, for the two tribes had been at bitter
enmity; but of late the peace-pipe has been smoked between them, and the old feud is at an
end. Still, the sight arouses considerable curiosity and much speculation as to the object
of the visitor.

He is a good rider, his horse is fleet, and in less time than would have been thought possible
reaches the camp. He gallops up, stops near the lodges that are farthest out, and springs lightly
to the ground. He does not go on into the camp, but stands beside his horse till advances are
made on the other side.

The dogs bark at him; his steed, a fiery black, tosses its head and paws the ground; he stands
beside it immovably, and to all appearance is ready so to stand till sunset. Some of the warriors
recognize him as one of the bravest of the Bannocks. He looks like a daring, resolute man,
yet wary and self-contained.

After a while one of the Cayuse warriors (for this was a camp of the Cayuses) advanced toward
him, and a grave salutation was exchanged. Then the Bannock said that he wanted to see the
Cayuse chief, Snoqualmie, in the council-lodge, for the chief of the Bannocks had sent a "talk"
to the Cayuses.

The warrior left him to speak with Snoqualmie. In a short time he returned, saying that the
chief and the warriors had gone to the council-lodge and were ready to hear the "talk" that
their brother, the chief of the Bannocks, had sent them. The messenger tied his horse by its
lariat, or long hair-rope, to a bush, and followed the brave to the lodge.

It was a large wigwam in the centre of the village. A crowd of old men, women, and children
had already gathered around the door. Within, on one side of the room, sat in three rows a
semi-circle of braves, facing the chief, who sat on the opposite side. Near the door was a
clear space where the messenger was to stand while speaking.

He entered, and the doorway behind him was immediately blocked up by the motley crowd excluded
from the interior. Not a warrior in the council looked at him; even the chief, Snoqualmie,
did not turn his head. The messenger advanced a few paces into the room, stopped, and stood
as impassive as the rest. Then, when the demands of Indian stoicism had been satisfied, Snoqualmie
turned his face, a handsome but treacherous and cruel face, upon the messenger.

"The warrior comes to speak the words of our brother, the chief of the Bannocks; he is welcome.
Shall we smoke the pipe of peace before we hear our brother's words?"

The Bannock gazed steadily at Snoqualmie. In that fierce and proud regard was something the
Cayuse could not fathom.

"Why should the peace-pipe be smoked?" he asked. "Was it not smoked in the great council a
moon ago? Did not Snoqualmie say then that the two tribes should henceforth be as one tribe,
and that the Bannocks should be the brethren of the Cayuses forever?"

"Those were the words," replied the chief with dignity. "Snoqualmie has not forgotten them."

All eyes were now turned on the messenger; they saw that something unexpected was coming. The
Bannock drew his form up to its full height, and his resolute features expressed the bitterest
scorn.

"Nor have the Bannocks forgotten. At the council you talked 'peace, peace.' Last night some
of your young men surprised a little camp of Bannocks,--a few old men and boys who were watching
horses,--and slew them and ran off the horses. Is that your peace? The Bannocks will have no
such peace. This is the word the chief of the Bannocks sends you!"

Holding up the peace-pipe that had been smoked at the great council and afterward given to
the medicine-men of the Bannocks as a pledge of Cayuse sincerity, he broke the long slender
stem twice, thrice, crushed the bowl in his fingers, and dashed the pieces at Snoqualmie's
feet. It was a defiance, a contemptuous rejection of peace, a declaration of war more disdainful
than any words could have made it.

Then, before they could recover from their astonishment, the Bannock turned and leaped through
the crowd at the door,--for an instant's stay was death. Even as he leaped, Snoqualmie's tomahawk
whizzed after him, and a dozen warriors were on their feet, weapon in hand. But the swift,
wild drama had been played like lightning, and he was gone. Only, a brave who had tried to
intercept his passage lay on the ground outside the lodge, stabbed to the heart. They rushed
to the door in time to see him throw himself on his horse and dash off, looking back to give
a yell of triumph and defiance.

In less time than it takes to describe it, the horses tethered near the lodges were mounted
and twenty riders were in pursuit. But the Bannock was considerably in advance now, and the
fine black horse he rode held its own nobly. Out over the prairie flew the pursuing Cayuses,
yelling like demons, the fugitive turning now and then to utter a shout of derision.

Back at the lodges, the crowd of spectators looked on with excited comments.

"His horse is tired, ours are fresh!" "They gain on him!" "No, he is getting farther from them!"
"See, he throws away his blanket!" "They are closer, closer!" "No, no, his horse goes like a deer."

Out over the prairies, fleeting like the shadow of a hurrying cloud, passed the race, the black
horse leading, the Cayuse riders close behind, their long hair outstreaming, their moccasins
pressed against their horses' sides, their whips falling without mercy. Down a canyon they
swept in pursuit and passed from the ken of the watchers at the camp, the black horse still
in the van.

But it could not cope with the fresh horses of the Cayuses, and they gained steadily. At last
the pursuers came within bowshot, but they did not shoot; the fugitive knew too well the reason
why. Woe unto him if he fell alive into their hands! He leaned low along his horse's neck,
chanting a weird refrain as if charming it to its utmost speed, and ever and anon looked back
with that heart-shaking shout of defiance. But steadily his pursuers gained on him; and one,
outstripping the rest, rode alongside and reached out to seize his rein. Even as he touched
it, the Bannock's war-club swung in air and the Cayuse reeled dead from his saddle. A howl
of rage burst from the others, a whoop of exultation from the fugitive.

But at length his horse's breath grew short and broken, he felt its body tremble as it ran,
and his enemies closed in around him.

Thrice the war-club rose and fell, thrice was a saddle emptied; but all in vain. Quickly his
horse was caught, he was dragged from the saddle and bound hand and foot.

He was thrown across a horse and brought back to the village. What a chorus of triumph went
up from the camp, when it was seen that they were bringing him back! It was an ominous sound,
with something of wolfish ferocity in it. But the Bannock only smiled grimly.

He is bound to a post,--a charred, bloodstained post to which others of his race have been
bound before him. The women and children taunt him, jeer at him, strike him even. The warriors
do not. They will presently do more than that. Some busy themselves building a fire near by;
others bring pieces of flint, spear points, jagged fragments of rock, and heat them in it.
The prisoner, dusty, torn, parched with thirst, and bleeding from many wounds, looks on with
perfect indifference. Snoqualmie comes and gazes at him; the prisoner does not notice him,
is seemingly unconscious of his presence.

By and by a band of hunters ride up from a long excursion. They have heard nothing of the trouble.
With them is a young Bannock who is visiting the tribe. He rides up with his Cayuse comrades,
laughing, gesticulating in a lively way. The jest dies on his lips when he recognizes the Bannock
who is tied to the stake. Before he can even think of flight, he is dragged from his horse
and bound,--his whilom comrades, as soon as they understand the situation, becoming his bitterest
assailants.

For it is war again, war to the death between the tribes, until, two centuries later, both
shall alike be crushed by the white man.

At length the preparations are complete, and the women and children, who have been swarming
around and taunting the captives, are brushed aside like so many flies by the stern warriors.
First, the young Bannock who has just come in is put where he must have a full view of the
other. Neither speaks, but a glance passes between them that is like a mutual charge to die
bravely. Snoqualmie comes and stands close by the prisoner and gives directions for the torture
to begin.

The Bannock is stripped. The stone blades that have been in the fire are brought, all red and
glowing with heat, and pressed against his bare flesh. It burns and hisses under the fiery
torture, but the warrior only sneers.

"It doesn't hurt; you can't hurt me. You are fools. You don't know how to torture."[4]

No refinement of cruelty could wring a complaint from him. It was in vain that they burned
him, cut the flesh from his fingers, branded his cheek with the heated bowl of the pipe he
had broken.

"Try it again," he said mockingly, while his flesh smoked. "I feel no pain. We torture your
people a great deal better, for we make them cry out like little children."

More and more murderous and terrible grew the wrath of his tormentors, as this stream of vituperation
fell on their ears. Again and again weapons were lifted to slay him, but Snoqualmie put them back.

"He can suffer more yet," he said; and the words were like a glimpse into the cold, merciless
heart of the man. Other and fiercer tortures were devised by the chief, who stood over him,
pointing out where and how the keenest pain could be given, the bitterest pang inflicted on
that burned and broken body. At last it seemed no longer a man, but a bleeding, scorched, mutilated
mass of flesh that hung to the stake; only the lips still breathed defiance and the eyes gleamed
deathless hate. Looking upon one and another, he boasted of how he had slain their friends
and relatives. Many of his boasts were undoubtedly false, but they were very bitter.

"It was by my arrow that you lost your eye," he said to one; "I scalped your father," to another;
and every taunt provoked counter-taunts accompanied with blows.

At length he looked at Snoqualmie,--a look so ghastly, so disfigured, that it was like something
seen in a horrible dream.

"I took your sister prisoner last winter; you never knew,--you thought she had wandered from
home and was lost in a storm. We put out her eyes, we tore out her tongue, and then we told
her to go out in the snow and find food. Ah-h-h! you should have seen her tears as she went
out into the storm, and----"

The sentence was never finished. While the last word lingered on his lips, his body sunk into
a lifeless heap under a terrific blow, and Snoqualmie put back his blood-stained tomahawk into
his belt.

"Shall we kill the other?" demanded the warriors, gathering around the surviving Bannock, who
had been a stoical spectator of his companion's sufferings. A ferocious clamor from the women
and children hailed the suggestion of new torture; they thronged around the captive, the children
struck him, the women abused him, spat upon him even, but not a muscle of his face quivered;
he merely looked at them with stolid indifference.

"Kill him, kill him!" "Stretch him on red hot stones!" "We will make him cry!"

Snoqualmie hesitated. He wished to save this man for another purpose, and yet the Indian blood-thirst
was on him; chief and warrior alike were drunken with fury, mad with the lust of cruelty.

As he hesitated, a white man clad in the garb of an Indian hunter pushed his way through the
crowd. Silence fell upon the throng; the clamor of the women, the fierce questioning of the
warriors ceased. The personality of this man was so full of tenderness and sympathy, so strong
and commanding, that it impressed the most savage nature. Amid the silence, he came and looked
first at the dead body that yet hung motionless from the stake, then sorrowfully, reproachfully,
at the circle of faces around. An expression half of sullen shame, half of defiance, crossed
more than one countenance as his glance fell upon it.

"Friends," said he, sadly, pointing at the dead, "is this your peace with the Bannocks,--the
peace you prayed the Great Spirit to bless, the peace that was to last forever?"

"The Bannocks sent back the peace-pipe by this man, and he broke it and cast the pieces in
our teeth," answered one, stubbornly.

"And you slew him for it? Why not have sent runners to his tribe asking why it was returned,
and demanding to know what wrong you had done, that you might right it? Now there will be war.
When you lie down to sleep at night, the surprise may be on you and massacre come while your
eyes are heavy with slumber; when you are gone on the buffalo trail the tomahawk may fall on
the women and children at home. Death will lurk for you in every thicket and creep round every
encampment. The Great Spirit is angry because you have stained your hands in blood without cause."

There was no reply. This white man, coming from far eastern lands lying they knew not where,
who told them God had sent him to warn them to be better, had a singular influence over them.
There was none of his hearers who did not dimly feel that he had done wrong in burning and
scarring the poor mass of humanity before him, and that the Great Spirit was angry with him for it.

Back in the crowd, some of the children, young demons hungering for blood, began to clamor
again for the death of the surviving Bannock. Cecil Grey looked at him pityingly.

"At least you can let him go."

There was no answer. Better impulses, better desires, were struggling in their degraded minds;
but cruelty was deeply rooted within them, the vague shame and misgiving his words had roused
was not so strong as the dark animalism of their natures.

Cecil turned to Snoqualmie.

"I saved your life once, will you not give me his?"

The chief regarded him coldly.

"Take it," he said after a pause. Cecil stooped over and untied the thongs that bound the captive,
who rose to his feet amid a low angry murmur from those around. Snoqualmie silenced it with
an imperious gesture. Then he turned to the young Bannock.

"Dog, one of a race of dogs! go back to your people and tell them what you have seen to-day.
Tell them how we burned and tortured their messenger, and that we let you go only to tell the
tale. Tell them, too, that Snoqualmie knows his sister died by their hand last winter, and
that for every hair upon her head he will burn a Bannock warrior at the stake. Go, and be quick,
lest my war-party overtake you on the trail."

The Bannock left without a word, taking the trail across the prairie toward the land of his tribe.

"The gift was given, but there was that given with it that made it bitter. And now may I bury
this dead body?"

"It is only a Bannock; who cares what is done with it?" replied Snoqualmie. "But remember,
my debt is paid. Ask of me no more gifts," and the chief turned abruptly away.

"Who will help me bury this man?" asked Cecil. No one replied; and he went alone and cut the
thongs that bound the body to the stake. But as he stooped to raise it, a tall fine-looking
man, a renegade from the Shoshones, who had taken no part in the torture, came forward to help
him. Together they bore the corpse away from the camp to the hillside; together they hollowed
out a shallow grave and stretched the body in it, covering it with earth and heaping stones
on top, that the cayote might not disturb the last sleep of the dead.

When they returned to the camp, they found a war-party already in the saddle, with Snoqualmie
at their head, ready to take the Bannock trail. But before they left the camp, a runner entered
it with a summons from Multnomah calling them to the great council of the tribes on Wappatto
Island, for which they must start on the morrow.

-----

 [3] See Bancroft's "Native Races," vol. i., p. 270.

 [4] See Ross Cox's "Adventures on the Columbia River" for a
     description of torture among the Columbia tribes.

CHAPTER II.

ON THE WAY TO THE COUNCIL.

               They arrived at the village of Wishram.

                                    IRVING: Astoria.

The camp was all astir at dawn, for sunset must see them far on the way. They must first cross
the prairies to the northward till they struck the Columbia, then take the great trail leading
down it to the Willamette valley. It was a two days' journey at the least.

Squaws were preparing a hurried meal; lodge-poles were being taken down and the mats that covered
them rolled up and strapped on the backs of horses; Indians, yelling and vociferating, were
driving up bands of horses from which pack and riding ponies were to be selected; unbroken
animals were rearing and plunging beneath their first burdens, while mongrel curs ran barking
at their heels. Here and there unskilful hands were throwing the lasso amid the jeers and laughter
of the spectators. All was tumult and excitement.

At length they were under way. First rode the squaws, driving before them pack-horses and ponies,
for the herds and entire movable property of the tribe accompanied it in all its marches. The
squaws rode astride, like men, in the rude wooden saddles that one yet sees used by the wilder
Indians of eastern Oregon and Idaho,--very high, both before and behind, looking like exaggerated
pack-saddles. A hair rope, tied around the lower jaw of the horse, answered for a bridle. To
this must be added the quirt, a short double-lashed whip fastened into a hollow and curiously
carved handle. The application of this whip was so constant as to keep the right arm in continual
motion; so that even to-day on the frontier an Indian rider can be distinguished from a white
man, at a distance, by the constant rising and falling of the whip arm. With the squaws were
the children, some of whom, not over four, five, and six years of age, rode alone on horseback,
tied in the high saddles; managing their steeds with instinctive skill, and when the journey
became fatiguing, going to sleep, secured by their fastenings from falling off.

Next came the men, on the best horses, unencumbered by weight of any kind and armed with bow
and arrow. Here and there a lance pointed with flint, a stone knife or hatchet, or a heavy
war-club, hung at the saddle; but the bow and arrow constituted their chief weapon.

The men formed a kind of rear-guard, protecting the migrating tribe from any sudden assault
on the part of the Bannocks. There were perhaps two hundred fighting-men in all. Snoqualmie
was at their head, and beside him rode the young Willamette runner who had brought the summons
from Multnomah the day before. The Willamette was on horseback for the first time in his life.
The inland or prairie tribes of eastern Oregon, coming as they did in contact with tribes whose
neighbors bordered on Mexico, had owned horses for perhaps a generation; but the sea-board
tribes owned very few, and there were tribes on Puget Sound and at the mouth of the Columbia
who had never seen them. Even the Willamettes, sovereign tribe of the confederacy though they
were, had but few horses.

This morning the young Willamette had bought a colt, giving for it a whole string of hiagua
shells. It was a pretty, delicate thing, and he was proud of it, and had shown his pride by
slitting its ears and cutting off its tail, as was the barbarous custom with many of the Indians.
He sat on the little creature now; and loaded as it was with the double weight of himself and
the heavy wooden saddle, it could hardly keep pace with the older and stronger horses.

In the rear of all rode Cecil Grey and the Shoshone renegade who had helped him bury the dead
Bannock the evening before. Cecil's form was as slight and graceful in its Indian garb as in
days gone by, and his face was still the handsome, sensitive face it had been eight years before.
It was stronger now, more resolute and mature, and from long intercourse with the Indians there
had come into it something grave and Indian-like; but it only gave more of dignity to his mien.
His brown beard swept his breast, and his face was bronzed; but the lips quivered under the
beard, and the cheek flushed and paled under the bronze.

What had he been doing in the eight years that had elapsed since he left his New England home?
Let us listen to his story in his own words as he tells it to the Shoshone renegade by his side.

"I lived in a land far to the east, beside a great water. My people were white like myself.
I was one of an order of men whom the Great Spirit had appointed to preach of goodness, mercy,
and truth, and to explain to the people the sayings of a mighty book which he had given to
the fathers,--a book that told how men should live in this world, and said that a beautiful
place in the next would be given those who are good and true in this. But by and by the Great
Spirit began to whisper to me of the Indians in the wilderness who knew nothing of the book
or the hope within it, and a longing rose within me to go and tell them; but there were ties
that held me to my own people, and I knew not what to do. Death cut those ties; and in my hour
of grief there came to me a vision of a great bridge far in the west, and of Indians passing
over it, and a voice spoke to me and bade me go and seek the land of the bridge, for the Great
Spirit had a mission for me there; and I went forth into the wilderness. I met many tribes
and tarried with them, telling them of God. Many were evil and treated me harshly, others were
kind and listened. Some loved me and wished me to abide always in their lodges and be one of
them. But even while they spoke the Great Spirit whispered to me to go on, and an unrest rose
within me, and I could not stay.

"So the years went by, and I wandered farther and farther to the west, across rivers and deserts,
till I reached this tribe; and they said that farther on, toward the land of the Willamettes,
a great river flowed through the mountains, and across it was a bridge of stone built by the
gods when the world was young. Then I knew that it was the bridge of my vision, and the unrest
came back and I arose to go. But the tribe kept me, half as guest and half as prisoner, and
would not let me depart; until last night the runner came summoning them to the council. Now
they go, taking me with them. I shall see the land of the bridge and perform the work the Great
Spirit has given me to do."

The old grand enthusiasm shone in his look as he closed. The Shoshone regarded him with grave
attention.

"What became of the book that told of God?" he asked earnestly.

"A chief took it from me and burned it; but its words were written on my heart, and they could
not be destroyed."

They rode on for a time in silence. The way was rugged, the country a succession of canyons
and ridges covered with green and waving grass but bare of trees. Behind them, the Blue Mountains
were receding in the distance. To the west, Mt. Hood, the great white "Witch Mountain" of the
Indians, towered over the prairie, streaking the sky with a long floating wreath of volcanic
smoke. Before them, as they journeyed northward toward the Columbia, stretched out the endless
prairie. Now they descended into a deep ravine, now they toiled up a steep hillside. The country
literally rolled, undulating in immense ridges around and over which the long file of squaws
and warriors, herds and pack-horses, wound like a serpent. From the bands ahead came shouts
and outcries,--the sounds of rude merriment; and above all the long-drawn intonation so familiar
to those who have been much with Indian horsemen,--the endlessly repeated "ho-ha, ho-ha, ho-ha,"
a kind of crude riding-song.

After a while Cecil said, "I have told you the story of my life, will you not tell me the story
of yours?"

"Yes," said the renegade, after a moment's thought; "you have shown me your heart as if you
were my brother. Now I will show you mine.

"I was a Shoshone warrior.[5] There was a girl in our village whom I had loved from childhood.
We played together; we talked of how, when I became a man and a warrior, she should become
my wife; she should keep my wigwam; we would always love one another. She grew up, and the
chief offered many horses for her. Her father took them. She became the chief's wife, and all
my heart withered up. Everything grew dark. I sat in my wigwam or wandered in the forest, caring
for nothing.

"When I met her, she turned her face aside, for was she not the wife of another? Yet I knew
her heart hungered for me. The chief knew it too, and when he spoke to her a cloud was ever
on his brow and sharp lightning on his tongue. But she was true. Whose lodge was as clean as
his? The wood was always carried, the water at hand, the meat cooked. She searched the very
thought that was in his heart to save him the trouble of speaking. He could never say, 'Why
is it not done?' But her heart was mine, and he knew it; and he treated her like a dog and
not like a wife.

"Me too he tried to tread under foot. One day we assembled to hunt the buffalo. Our horses
were all collected. Mine stood before my tent, and he came and took them away, saying that
they were his. What could I do? He was a chief.

"I came no more to the council, I shared no more in the hunt and the war-dance. I was unhorsed,
degraded, dishonored. He told his wife what he had done, and when she wept he beat her.

"One evening I stood on a knoll overlooking the meadow where the horses were feeding; the chief's
horses were there, and mine with them. I saw him walking among them. The sight maddened me;
my blood burned; I leaped on him; with two blows I laid him dead at my feet. I covered him
with earth and strewed leaves over the place. Then I went to her and told her what I had done,
and urged her to fly with me. She answered only with tears. I reminded her of all she had suffered,
and told her I had done only what was just. I urged her again to fly. She only wept the more,
and bade me go. My heart was heavy but my eyes were dry.

"'It is well,' I said, 'I will go alone to the desert. None but the wild beasts of the wilderness
will be with me. The seekers of blood will follow on my trail; they may come on me while I
am asleep and slay me, but you will be safe. I will go alone.'

"I turned to go. She sprang after me. 'No,' she cried, 'you shall not go alone. Wherever you
go I will go: you shall never part from me.'

"While we were talking, one who had seen me slay the chief and had roused the camp, came with
others. We heard their steps approaching the door, and knew that death came with them. We escaped
at the back of the lodge, but they saw us and their arrows flew. She fell, and I caught her
in my arms and fled into the wood. When we were safe I looked at her I carried, and she was
dead. An arrow had pierced her heart. I buried her that night beneath a heap of stones, and
fled to the Cayuses. That is my story."

"What will you do now?" asked Cecil, deeply touched.

"I shall live a man's life. I shall hunt and go on the war-trail, and say strong words in the
council. And when my life is ended, when the sunset and the night come to me and I go forth
into the darkness, I know I shall find her I love waiting for me beside the death-trail that
leads to the spirit-land."

The tears came into Cecil's eyes.

"I too have known sorrow," he said, "and like you I am a wanderer from my own people. We are
going together into an unknown land, knowing not what may befall us. Let us be friends."

And he held out his hand. The Indian took it,--awkwardly, as an Indian always takes the hand
of a white man, but warmly, heartily.

"We are brothers," he said simply. And as Cecil rode on with the wild troop into the unknown
world before him, he felt that there was one beside him who would be faithful, no matter what
befell.

The long day wore on; the sun rose to the zenith and sunk, and still the Indians pushed forward.
It was a long, forced march, and Cecil was terribly fatigued when at last one of the Indians
told him that they were near a big river where they would camp for the night.

"One sun more," said the Indian, pointing to the sun now sinking in the west, "and you will
see the Bridge of the Gods."

The news re-animated Cecil, and he hurried on. A shout rose from the Indians in advance. He
saw the head of the long train of horses and riders pause and look downward and the Indians
at the rear gallop forward. Cecil and his friend followed and joined them.

"The river! the river!" cried the Indians, as they rode up. The scene below was one of gloomy
but magnificent beauty. Beneath them opened an immense canyon, stupendous even in that land
of canyons,--the great canyon of the Columbia. The walls were brown, destitute of verdure,
sinking downward from their feet in yawning precipices or steep slopes. At the bottom, more
than a thousand feet below, wound a wide blue river, the gathered waters of half a continent.
Beneath them, the river plunged over a long low precipice with a roar that filled the canyon
for miles. Farther on, the flat banks encroached upon the stream till it seemed narrowed to
a silver thread among the jutting rocks. Still farther, it widened again, swept grandly around
a bend in the distance, and passed from sight.

"Tuum, tuum," said the Indians to Cecil, in tones that imitated the roar of the cataract. It
was the "Tum" of Lewis and Clark, the "Tumwater" of more recent times; and the place below,
where the compressed river wound like a silver thread among the flat black rocks, was the far-famed
Dalles of the Columbia. It was superb, and yet there was something profoundly lonely and desolate
about it,--the majestic river flowing on forever among barren rocks and crags, shut in by mountain
and desert, wrapped in an awful solitude where from age to age scarce a sound was heard save
the cry of wild beasts or wilder men.

"It is the very river of death and of desolation," thought Cecil. "It looks lonely, forsaken,
as if no eye had beheld it from the day of creation until now."

Looking again at the falls, he saw, what he had not before noticed, a large camp of Indians
on the side nearest them. Glancing across the river, he descried on a knoll on the opposite
bank--what? Houses! He could not believe his eyes; could it be possible? Yes, they certainly
were long, low houses, roofed as the white man roofs his. A sudden wild hope thrilled him;
his brain grew dizzy. He turned to one of the Indians.

"Who built those houses?" he exclaimed; "white men like me?"

The other shook his head.

"No, Indians."

Cecil's heart died within him. "After all," he murmured, "it was absurd to expect to find a
settlement of white men here. How could I think that any but Indians had built those houses?"

Still, as they descended the steep zigzag pathway leading down to the river, he could not help
gazing again and again at the buildings that so reminded him of home.

It was Wishram, the ancient village of the falls, whose brave and insolent inhabitants, more
than a century later, were the dread of the early explorers and fur traders of the Columbia.
It was built at the last and highest fishery on the Columbia, for the salmon could not at that
time ascend the river above the falls. All the wandering tribes of the Upper Columbia came
there to fish or to buy salmon of the Wishram fishers. There too the Indians of the Lower Columbia
and the Willamette met them, and bartered the hiagua shells, the dried berries, and wappatto
of their country for the bear claws and buffalo robes of the interior. It was a rendezvous
where buying, selling, gambling, dancing, feasting took the place of war and the chase; though
the ever burning enmities of the tribes sometimes flamed into deadly feuds and the fair-ground
not infrequently became a field of battle.

The houses of Wishram were built of logs, the walls low, the lower half being below the surface
of the ground, so that they were virtually half cellar. At a distance, the log walls and arched
roofs gave them very much the appearance of a frontier town of the whites.

As they descended to the river-side, Cecil looked again and again at the village, so different
from the skin or bark lodges of the Rocky Mountain tribes he had been with so long. But the
broad and sweeping river flowed between, and his gaze told him little more than his first glance
had done.

They were now approaching the camp. Some of the younger braves at the head of the Cayuse train
dashed toward it, yelling and whooping in the wildest manner. Through the encampment rang an
answering shout.

"The Cayuses! the Cayuses! and the white medicine-man!"

The news spread like wildfire, and men came running from all directions to greet the latest
arrivals. It was a scene of abject squalor that met Cecil's eyes as he rode with the others
into the camp. Never had he seen among the Indian races aught so degraded as those Columbia
River tribes.

The air was putrid with decaying fish; the very skins and mats that covered the lodge-poles
were black with rancid salmon and filth. Many of the men were nude; most of the women wore
only a short garment of skin or woven cedar bark about the waist, falling scarcely to the knees.
The heads of many had been artificially flattened; their faces were brutal; their teeth worn
to the gums with eating sanded salmon; and here and there bleared and unsightly eyes showed
the terrible prevalence of ophthalmia. Salmon were drying in the sun on platforms raised above
the reach of dogs. Half-starved horses whose raw and bleeding mouths showed the effect of the
hair-rope bridles, and whose projecting ribs showed their principal nutriment to be sage-brush
and whip-lash, were picketed among the lodges. Cayote-like dogs and unclad children, shrill
and impish, ran riot, fighting together for half-dried, half-decayed pieces of salmon. Prevailing
over everything was the stench which is unique and unparalleled among the stenches of the earth,--the
stench of an Indian camp at a Columbia fishery.[6]

Perhaps ten of the petty inland tribes had assembled there as their starting-point for the
great council at Wappatto Island. All had heard rumors of the white man who had appeared among
the tribes to the south saying that the Great Spirit had sent him to warn the Indians to become
better, and all were anxious to see him. They pointed him out to one another as he rode up,--the
man of graceful presence and delicate build; they thronged around him, naked men and half-clad
women, squalid, fierce as wild beasts, and gazed wonderingly.

"It is he, the white man," they whispered among themselves. "See the long beard." "See the
white hands." "Stand back, the Great Spirit sent him; he is strong tomanowos; beware his anger."

Now the horses were unpacked and the lodges pitched, under the eyes of the larger part of the
encampment, who watched everything with insatiable curiosity, and stole all that they could
lay their hands on. Especially did they hang on every motion of Cecil; and he sank very much
in their estimation when they found that he helped his servant, the old Indian woman, put up
his lodge.

"Ugh, he does squaw's work," was the ungracious comment. After awhile, when the lodge was up
and Cecil lay weary and exhausted upon his mat within it, a messenger entered and told him
that the Indians were all collected near the river bank and wished him to come and give them
the "talk" he had brought from the Great Spirit.

Worn as he was, Cecil arose and went. It was in the interval between sunset and dark. The sun
still shone on the cliffs above the great canyon, but in the spaces below the shadows were
deepening. On the flat rocks near the bank of the river, and close by the falls of Tumwater,
the Indians were gathered to the number of several hundred, awaiting him,--some squatting,
Indian fashion, on the ground, others standing upright, looking taller than human in the dusky
light. Mingled with the debased tribes that made up the larger part of the gathering, Cecil
saw here and there warriors of a bolder and superior race,--Yakimas and Klickitats, clad in
skins or wrapped in blankets woven of the wool of the mountain sheep. 

This ruling has had favorable effects in only two years that have acquired practical many Indians
a regular conveniences, many families have been neat and tidy and not ashamed to appear before
all sorts of people, with whose company are becoming sociable and acquiring a perfect civility prevail
in all abundance, and every day is over, for the example of a stimulus serves others. You've
seen it, and so has seen the Governor Governor of this province, and so I have no fear that
seems you more expensive born of self-esteem.

Although the common view is taken these natives as lazy and unable to poderles instill a desire
to escape poverty and despondency that are, similar to those and believe it is natural for them
this neglect, I've never been persuaded to this view. I will not deny that the mood and food can have
some influence on the strength and disposition the body and make it more or less active according
to their qualities, and more can influence, my opinion, the education, which are printed in
the mind the ideas that shape their operations, but always deny that they are unable to overcome
some hindrances, such as many think. Will agree, yes, that was hard, but that is impossible.

By
repeated experiences I have known that the Guarani Indians are not
as lazy as the mean, not even noticing they must be lazy.

The town of Candelaria goes to work that of Santa Maria Maggiore four sawyers Indians, not Indians
have this job in Santa Maria, to whom it was said of two real wages each day, one for the community
of its people and the other for them in that people working from sunrise to sunset very happy
for the wages they knew they were winning. If you have arrived to dismiss two of them, have already
learned to saw other Santa Maria, none of the four wanted to be fired, everyone wanted to continue,
without flinching from the hard work of the saw, and they caused much feeling when they were
fired. The same happened with those who have worked calafates ships in San Jose, and finally,
how these terms are used in work with pleasure and commitment.

All Spanish employees in the villages have one or more Indians who serve them without giving them
more wages than food, clothing and some short realillo.

And with only this very specific and efficient servants, without ever excuse what they're told,
even trabajosísima execution, and the greatest punishment that can be given to these servants
is to dismiss because is something that costs a lot of feeling.

Any Indian who offered a short interest is ready to send whatever
they want, provide care themselves, and seeking to be preferred to
others; So these are not procedures lazy, because if they were, no
interest will move to work.

Everywhere that the Indians occupy Tapes are very good paying wage
laborers, as experienced in the city of Buenos Aires and in all of
Spanish, who prefer other laborers, so the not being applied here
is because they lack the incentive of pay.

They are also noted thieves, and they do all they can steal, but it
forces them the need, they crave whatever they see, and more so there
is within villages and as they wish and are not buying it, and even
if they had they would find who sold it, knowing no other way to buy,
steal, if they find time.

Well is that it is not so general this defect, which not conceive infamy, perhaps because this
year he was punished for theft, do the next mayor. I discover this defect in the Indians a
willingness to civilize and make time-consuming, because once you covet brilliant, if they provided
it can be purchased at the cost of work apply hard, which does not happen if they were looking things
with indifference.

To complete this regard I refer to here as the government's particular political and economics
of these natural, according to the generality with which it is practiced in these villages to you
come more aware of the lights, genius and habit of all.

Each village has a council composed of a mayor, deputy mayor, two
mayors, four aldermen, a mayor of brotherhood, a sheriff, a butler
and a secretary, those who choose the New Year's Day, according to
the provisions in laws, with the exception of Mayor and lieutenant,
who have no time.

Elections do them together eight or more days in advance, and each chapter offers an Indian to
occupy the job he exercised consultation before the will of the mayor and the administrator, which
are major in this machine rolling. While all chords, lead the list of those who think naming the administrator,
which, if you please, tell them do so, and if any of the mentioned have any blemish, or does
not like the manager, tells them that they ought not, and to indicate other than perhaps the
manager tells them, or privately hinted to the sheriff, and well done. In addition to the jobs
of council members, has designated next year all jobs military, the keepers of the chores and
head teachers of all trades and arts, so that in every village passed 80 and even 100 those
who hold offices, and if the people is short, all become mandarins, and there are few who rule. Recent
jobs Exclusively playing the sheriff the name, but he always does with the consent of the administrator,
particularly those whose occupation is the care of community assets.

Prepared lists and chords all come together on New Year's Day, early morning, and to touch cash being
published on the doors of the house of the appointed council, whose act attends all the local
people, some by curiosity, others to receive in their jobs, to take possession immediately, without
waiting for confirmation from the government.

They deliver rods and sticks to the mayor and other council members re-appointed, and officers
corresponding military insignia, thence go to Mass, and then home administrator to be present,
which charges them fulfilling their obligation, and if not already extended the agreement of
the elections, extends, and signed by the voters, they always say all with one accord and a
plurality of votes have been chosen and appointed to the content, refer to governor of the province
for approval, and for other jobs that are not town hall simply the approval of the Lieutenant Governor
of the department.

Every day of the year, at dawn, and are together all the council members at the door of magistrate,
whose runners have a bench or seat in the meantime they feel it is time going to Mass, which
is always early.

The mayors have their sticks, batons and policy makers, they rarely release the hands, and
finished the first Mass is going to care door of the priest's room, to greet and take you, and
from there go to administrator, who warns them what they have to do that day and fired, van together
to the house of the mayor, and his door determine the distribution of people, and others corresponds
to the mine. Meanwhile it's time to go to work, which is always late grievances and demands
heard there, which are almost always missing work, theft, concubinage and gossip with each
other. If the accuser is lobbyists, or is responsible for care something, they bring to India
and Indian prisoner accused, and with little consideration send him flogged, as they see fit.
Well you never can spend their punishment of 50 lashes that this government allows them, reserving
the punishment of felonies to understand its causes and judgments, except the capitals, or
others who deserve punishment on criminals, who dispatched to Buenos Aires with the summary. For
the executors of prisons and punishment called sergeants, and they never fail to hand the halberd,
and the scourge bring it tight to the body to be instantly ready to send him. Regularly hear
cases all lobbyists, together with the mayor and mayors, but in the tasks and work any the
council, he is but alderman him beaten with a missing or commits other defect.

From the time of the Jesuits have the custom, and still see punctual, which, in ending of whipping
criminals, have to lift the soil, where they seek, and will humbly before him who sent them to
punish, and give the thanks Had they been corrected his faults.

If one ignores this requirement will take care of it, test and having it for pride, send it
again whip who humbles himself like or unwilling.

Always ensures that prison inmates do not stop, but those processed by capital crimes, or those
who drop out frequently and the other the penalty is applied, after the crime is justified,
and set free because prisons are unsafe and those who are responsible
too careless, and so often they are prisoners without sufficient to
punish caregivers.

They let them go out alone to their needs, are to mass, even the murderers, so that will not
be those who will not.

Daily feature classic and dress up with dresses that have the people for these functions. Vístense
also military officers with their own, and many others dress and accompanying form, that among
these are some expensive clothes, but they ridicule that serves to
embellish.

In the town where he attended the Governor or any Lieutenant Governor to attend every room,
accompanied by return to church in every ceremony, but being alone have little formality. Whenever
they go together platoon, or rather in a row, before the mayor, who is the deputy mayors,
and in turn others, the latter being the least degree. In church sit in seats; regularly divided
into two bands, although some people feel all of chapter in a single seat, and the deputy sheriff
with the rank military officers post, but the chiefs, who were to be preferred, have no designated
place, or thing The distinction, if not for having a job, take the place that he touched.

The
governor of the people they put in the church chair, rug and pillow, and was saved by priests have
all privileges that the laws are kept governors Timekeeping day, and attending other people's
religious. It gives peace a priest stole, and other holidays a neat band acolyte, we can observe
with lieutenant governors, when you're not the governor, by order of His Excellency Don Francisco
Bucareli, although the governors have patronized Lt. allowed another
chair was immediately put his own, when it is a Lieutenant where he
is.

Guess is that because, as the Indians are so rude, do not think is slight that they do, or the
lieutenant, in the absence of the governor, that usurps honor, in short, and it is practiced.
In the councils of peace gives an acolyte, and the priest gives holy water at the door of
the church on more traditional, but the governor all holidays.

The days of King's birthday, those of his real name, and those in which celebrating a happiness
of the monarchy or the royal family since the day before tomorrow gets the Cabildo in ceremony,
removed from the council houses of the four flags of each town, two with real guns and two with
cross of Burgundy, and other military insignia, which are four spades long five or six yards,
and very thin, small sunfish on the tips and some small colored feathers, put in order and
distribution in parts of these, four horsemen of the old-fashioned, and some sticks, some in
stock form, and others with metal shield or steel cuffs.

From ten o'clock start giving several turns in order, to touch or sound boxes, the square, some
on foot and horseback, to assemble several skirmishes and tournaments, until midnight, at which
time the festival is announced with pealing bells and a few shots of Camaret, whose signal
attend all the people at the door of the church, whose porch is attached the real picture
on the side for the gospel in a drawer, interior doors and curtains, and next opposite are the royal
arms painted on the wall or canvas. Together all the music complete, open the drawer and discover
the real picture repeating several times: "Viva el Rey, Our Lord, Don Carlos III ", and put
a guard with flags, and two effective sentinel before the real picture. In the afternoon vespers
are sung with great solemnity, efforts are required in this is not some religious priests,
and then return to the skirmishes in the meantime have some dances or dances of boys, who marvel
at the order and rhythm to keep, even if so young that fail to eight years. The dances they
use are ancient or foreign; I have not seen similar dances in Spain, or public amusements
of some peoples or those used in the octave of Corpus Christi day. Now some are introduced
modern contradanzas English, Valencian dances and other dances that use the Spanish. These guys
dancers adorn dresses by the way, with wreaths and garlands that are attractive dances, there
are some that are made up of 24 dancers, who are several links, and even letters with the name you
want.

Between dance and dance play games or snacks, in their language called decline, all of its invention,
and some of them seem quite artificial and grace to the principles but who can not complete them
properly, the more the end to beatings and whippings, which held with much laughter the bystanders.

As
the sun reserves the real picture with the ceremonies and cheers to that view, and at night they
put lights and cookers are assembled in the square, and repeated the dance as afternoon. The next
day at sunrise, turns to discover the real picture on the as such, which remains open all day.
At the usual hour, and given the ringing of bells, get together all the people in the church, which
is sung Mass and Te Deum with great solemnity, and then continue
in the square, horse racing contour in which, divided into four teams,
the Indians make many changes or figures the old fashioned way, all
at the touch of many boxes and trumpets, and with great clamor and
noise of large bells, that have covered the harnesses and halters
for horses, whose ornament and grandeur.

For lunch have six or eight tables arranged to treat, which is home of the mayor, and those of some
chiefs and councilors, for which there is community of property,
for each table, a bull, a little salt and a couple of jars of honey,
and they add to the what can yours.

In each house there treat have a long table in the corridors, often a narrow table on two sticks
and a small table adorned girl by way of small altar, with support, which put an image or picture
of a saint, in this table, Marketing more slender and delicate meats such as poultry, cakes,
boiled or baked potatoes, bread, etc. These tables, with more than a few large pieces of roasts,
and other things, they bring them to the square near the school gate, at noon, to take them
to the priest's blessing, like Indians whose ceremony attended by all the Spanish that is in the people,
particularly if the governor or lieutenant governor, and then the priest blesses the food,
health with a touch of boxes and trumpets, and beat the flags and music, sing a letter, they
have provided in their language, so thank God that feeds them, and made this retreat with tables
for their homes, and get to eat in the corridors, which run these
days with all ceremony.

Do not sit on those tables, but those who are invited, to be be his duty, nor feel any india. In
sitting down the Indians, that all they face the plaza, are the wives and daughters of the guests,
each with a plate big mud, comes and puts it under the table, at the foot of the father or
husband, and retires slightly, remaining standing in front of her husband, the entire duration
of the meal, which will serve some Indians, who bring each guest a plate full of good sized food,
of eating a little or do you eat, and then empties into the dish that has its feet, giving
the empty plate, and bring it back full of something else or the same, and does same with the
first, and so continue until completion. So that together on a plate All leftover meats few
have served at the table, to dessert, if any, together with the others. After they have finished,
come and take women's plates leftovers and take them home, where husbands are also, and together with
their children or friends eat what is left in the banquet.

Although magistrates have the same style when I came to these towns, they have banished entirely
in private, and treat that in these feasts and the patron saint Holder of the people have at
home, and do just as the Spanish. Within your house have the table well served and neat in
her women sit together with their husbands, and they behave soberly, and priests go home to bless
the magistrates the table.

A morning run in the square ring, giving the wearer awards, and at night are repeated dances and
wane.

Of these functions is done with more solemnity is the holy day of the holder pattern Village.
For her feature in the plaza at the entrance of the street that is opposite the door of the church,
a castle or scaffold made of high beams, which are frames and balconies, green branches, and
adorned with racks of linen draperies and painted, there placed in a shrine of the saint's image,
and before, at the foot of the altar, give way to fly the royal standard. Very early yesterday
morning, as are all lobbyists, military offices and other town employees
dressed and saddled horses to go out and get on the road to the governor,
the lieutenant and the priests, administrators and councils of other
countries, invited to the party, have put spies on all roads, and
warning that someone comes out to a quarter of a mile to find it,
there I salute welcome him and accompany him to his lodging.

In these submissions become the whole morning, using running time intervals riding around the square,
is the dominant passion of the Indians, who never cease to run all three days of the function,
and for this they have carefully reserved the horses that are to serve those days, which they
call the horses of the saint, and they serve only particular tasks, but not in the daily service
of rooms, so it is also desirable, as are in good condition those horses when needed.

On the first councilman who is responsible is the use of real Lieutenant, to whose house the council
goes at noon, and accompany him to the council house, where he delivered
logo real lieutenant, a tall pole has a shield over the fist-sized
silver hand, which are carved the royal arms.

Real Ensign accompanied by a little Indian which serves as a page, and takes the baton when he
wears the royal standard. For either peoples have dressed the same, with expensive embroidery
and braids, but, as they are the old cut and are not adjusted to their bodies, make them ridiculous.
The lieutenant takes real the royal standard and with all the accompanying leads and placed
in the castle, repeating many times: "Long live the King, Our Lord, Don Carlos III." From there
all go to the door of the church, and find the picture in the manner aforesaid, and then enter
the church, where the singing of the Magnificat, and withdraw, take her home to the royal standard
bearer.

In the afternoon, after given two ringing of bells to announce the run, is the town hall mounted
and accompanied by the royal officials and other attendees, a governor's house or lieutenant
governor, along for the ride out of the standard, where all managers attend Spanish and other
competitors, as well as the magistrates and councils of other peoples; and all are mounted
from there to house the royal standard bearer, which accompany and are to take the royal standard,
and to receive repeated the "Long live the King" to the sound of boxes, trumpets, bells and
several shots of Camaret, and arranged in good order, turning the square, walking ahead military
officers on the street with banners, pikes and other signs, playing
and beating flags at intervals, and repeating "Long live the King."

Arrive at the door of the church, where they expect the priests to all competing religious, who,
after given water blessed sanctuary attached to the royal standard, which receives the priest
or the one is to celebrate Mass, and placed within the sanctuary, next to the gospel in a foot
wood, and they put real Ensign chair, rug and pillow, the same on the outside of the sanctuary,
in front of that occupied by the governor or lieutenant governor, and running out the run, back
to retire in the same way and, before giving back to the plaza, placed the royal standard
in place.

The next day we repeated the ride, and sing the Mass and Vespers the evening before, and noon
real reserves the banner, but the real picture remains discovered all the day, occupied in running
in the square, dancing, ring in the evening and other entertainment.

In the same way that continues the next day, which usually take some bulls Cut the blades to not
hurt the fighters, which are very clumsy and adventurous. In some representing peoples operas
or comedies truncated nights, but as representatives are Indians, and most of them boys, and do not understand
what they say and can not pronounce While the Castilian, are poorly understood and have little
grace these representations for Spanish and for them.

At noon join the tables in the square for the blessing in this way, regular pass this day twenty
tables which are arranged, and some rich people even reach percent, and all very rich meat, cheaper
for the people must spend this day at least 50 bulls, because of the neighboring villages attends
many people, and all provide food in abundance.

In those days it was divided, while the dances, bull ring, and several trifles of who work in
towns, such as beads, cups, spoons, combs and canvas blade cotton, are also given, if there in the store,
needles, tape, knives and other trifles they believe a lot. Of this, some things are given as
a reward to those who dance or carry ring, and others were thrown in the catch, which is what they
have more fun, and together to catch them all, even the lobbyists,
if something falls to where they are sitting forget the formality
with which they are cast as children and to take what they can, although
in the day contain something.


Those who were friendly to Multnomah first laid presents before him; those who were not, took
their places without offering him either gift or salutation. Multnomah, however, seemed unconscious
of any neglect.

The chief of a Klamath tribe offered him a brilliantly dyed blanket; another, a finely fringed
quiver, full of arrows; another, a long and massive string of hiagua shells. Each laid his
gift before Multnomah and took his seat in silence.

The chief of the Chopponish presented him with a fine horse, the best belonging to his tribe.
Multnomah accepted it, and a slave led it away. Then came Snoqualmie, bringing with him Cecil
Grey. The chief's hour of vengeance was at hand.

"Behold the white man from the land where the sun rises, the white shaman of whom all the tribes
have heard. He is thine. Let him be the white slave of Multnomah. All the chiefs have slaves,
but who will have a white slave like Multnomah?"

Cecil saw the abyss of slavery yawning before him, and grew pale to the lips. His heart sank
within him; then the resolute purpose that never failed him in time of peril returned; he lifted
his head and met Multnomah's gaze with dignity. The war-chief bent on him the glance which
read men to the heart.

"The white stranger has been a chief among his own people," he said to Cecil, more in the manner
of one asserting a fact than asking a question.

"I have often spoken to my people in the gatherings to hear the word of the Great Spirit."

Again the keen, inscrutable gaze of the great chief seemed to probe his being to its core;
again the calm, grave stranger met it without shrinking. The instinct, so common among savage
races, of in some way knowing what a man is, of intuitively grasping his true merit, was possessed
by Multnomah in a large degree; and the royalty in his nature instinctively recognized the
royalty in Cecil's.

"The white guest who comes into the land of Multnomah shall be to him as a guest; the chief
should still be chief in any land. White stranger, Multnomah gives you welcome; sit down among
the chiefs."

Cecil took his place among them with all the composure he could command, well knowing that
he who would be influential among the Indians must seem to be unmoved by any change of fortune.
He felt, however, not only the joy of personal deliverance, but mingled with it came the glad,
triumphant thought that he had now a voice in the deliberations of the chiefs; it was a grand
door opened for Indian evangelization. As for Snoqualmie, his face was as impassive as granite.
One would have said that Cecil's victory was to him a matter of no moment at all. But under
the guise of indifference his anger burned fierce and deadly,--not against Multnomah but against
Cecil.

The last chief had taken his place in the council. There was a long, ceremonious pause. Then
Multnomah arose. He looked over the council, upon the stern faces of the Willamettes and the
loyal tributaries, upon the sullen faces of the malcontents, upon the fierce and lowering multitude
beyond. Over the throng he looked, and felt as one feels who stands on the brink of a volcano;
yet his strong voice never rang stronger, the grand old chief never looked more a chief than then.

"He is every inch a king," thought Cecil. The chief spoke in the common Willamette language,
at that time the medium of intercourse between the tribes as the Chinook is now. The royal
tongue was not used in a mixed council.

"Warriors and chiefs, Multnomah gives you welcome. He spreads the buffalo-robe." He made the
Indian gesture of welcome, opening his hands to them with a backward and downward gesture,
as of one spreading a robe. "To the warriors Multnomah says, 'The grass upon my prairies is
green for your horses; behold the wood, the water, the game; they are yours.' To the chiefs
he says, 'The mat is spread for you in my own lodge and the meat is cooked.' The hearts of
the Willamettes change not as the winters go by, and your welcome is the same as of old. Word
came to us that the tribes were angry and had spoken bitter things against the Willamettes;
yes, that they longed for the confederacy to be broken and the old days to come again when
tribe was divided against tribe and the Shoshones and Spokanes trampled upon you all. But Multnomah
trusted his allies; for had they not smoked the peace-pipe with him and gone with him on the
war-trail? So he stopped his ears and would not listen, but let those rumors go past him like
thistle-down upon the wind.

"Warriors, Multnomah has shown his heart. What say you? Shall the peace-pipe be lighted and
the talk begin?"

He resumed his seat. All eyes turned to where the peace-pipe and the tomahawk lay side by side
before the council. Multnomah seemed waiting for them to choose between the two.

Then Snoqualmie, the bravest and most loyal of the tributaries, spoke.

"Let the peace-pipe be lighted; we come not for strife, but to be knit together."

The angry malcontents in the council only frowned and drew their blankets closer around them.
Tohomish the seer, as the oldest chief and most renowned medicine-man present, came forward
and lighted the pipe,--a long, thin piece of carving in black stone, the workmanship of the
Nootkas or Hydahs, who made the more elaborate pipes used by the Indians of the Columbia River.

Muttering some mystical incantation, he waved it to the east and the west, to the north and
the south; and when the charm was complete, gave it to Multnomah, who smoked it and passed
it to Snoqualmie. From chief to chief it circled around the whole council, but among them were
those who sat with eyes fixed moodily on the ground and would not so much as touch or look
at it. As the pipe passed round there was a subdued murmur and movement in the multitude, a
low threatening clamor, as yet held in check by awe of Multnomah and dread of the Willamette
warriors. But the war-chief seemed unconscious that any had refused the pipe. He now arose
and said,--

"The pipe is smoked. Are not our hearts as one? Is there not perfect trust between us? Now
let us talk. First of all, Multnomah desires wise words from his brethren. Last winter one
of the tribes rose up against Multnomah, saying that he should no longer be elder brother and
war-chief of the tribes. But the rebels were beaten and all of them slain save the chief, who
was reserved to be tried before you. You in your wisdom shall decide what shall be done with
the warrior who has rebelled against his chief and stained his hands with the blood of his
brethren."

Two Willamette braves then entered the circle, bringing with them one whose hands were tied
behind him, whose form was emaciated with hunger and disease, but whose carriage was erect
and haughty. Behind came a squaw, following him into the very presence of Multnomah, as if
resolved to share his fortunes to the last. It was his wife. She was instantly thrust back
and driven with brutal blows from the council. But she lingered on the outskirts of the crowd,
watching and waiting with mute, sullen fidelity the outcome of the trial. No one looked at
her, no one cared for her; even her husband's sympathizers jostled the poor shrinking form
aside,--for she was only a squaw, while he was a great brave.

He looked a great brave, standing there before Multnomah and the chiefs with a dignity in his
mien that no reverse could crush, no torture could destroy. Haggard, starved, bound, his eyes
gleamed deathless and unconquerable hate on council and war-chief alike. There were dark and
menacing looks among the malcontents; in the captive they saw personified their own loss of
freedom and the hated domination of the Willamettes.

"Speak! You that were a chief, you whose people sleep in the dust,--what have you to say in
your defence? The tribes are met together, and the chiefs sit here to listen and to judge."

The rebel sachem drew himself up proudly and fixed his flashing eyes on Multnomah.

"The tongue of Multnomah is a trap. I am brought not to be tried but to be condemned and slain,
that the tribes may see it and be afraid. No one knows this better than Multnomah. Yet I will
speak while I still live, and stand here in the sun; for I go out into the darkness, and the
earth will cover my face, and my voice shall be heard no more among men.

"Why should the Willamettes rule the other tribes? Are they better than we? The Great Spirit
gave us freedom, and who may make himself master and take it away?

"I was chief of a tribe; we dwelt in the land the Great Spirit gave our fathers; their bones
were in it; it was ours. But the Willamettes said to us, 'We are your elder brethren, you must
help us. Come, go with us to fight the Shoshones.' Our young men went, for the Willamettes
were strong and we could not refuse them. Many were slain, and the women wailed despairingly.
The Willamettes hunted on our hunting-grounds and dug the camas on our prairies, so that there
was not enough for us; and when winter came, our children cried for food. Then the runners
of the Willamettes came to us through the snow, saying, 'Come and join the war-party that goes
to fight the Bannocks.'

"But our hearts burned within us and we replied, 'Our hunting-grounds and our food you have
taken; will you have our lives also? Go back and tell your chief that if we must fight, we
will fight him and not the Bannocks.' Then the Willamettes came upon us and we fought them,
for their tyranny was so heavy that we could not breathe under it and death had become better
than life. But they were the stronger, and when did the heart of a Willamette feel pity? To-day
I only am left, to say these words for my race.

"Who made the Willamettes masters over us? The Great Spirit gave us freedom, and none may take
it away. Was it not well to fight? Yes; free my hands and give me back my people from the cairns
and the death-huts, and we will fight again! I go to my death, but the words I have spoken
will live. The hearts of those listening here will treasure them up; they will be told around
the lodge-fires and repeated in the war-dance. The words I speak will go out among the tribes,
and no man can destroy them. Yes, they go out words, but they will come back arrows and war
in the day of vengeance when the tribes shall rise against the oppressor.

"I have spoken, my words are done."

He stood erect and motionless. The wrath and disdain passed from his features, and stoicism
settled over them like a mask of stone. Multnomah's cold regard had not faltered a moment under
the chief's invective. No denunciation could shake that iron self-control.

The rebellious chiefs interchanged meaning glances; the throng of malcontents outside the grove
pressed closer upon the ring of Willamette warriors, who were still standing or squatting idly
around it. More than one weapon could be seen among them in defiance of the war-chief's prohibition;
and the presage of a terrible storm darkened on those grim, wild faces. The more peaceably
disposed bands began to draw themselves apart. An ominous silence crept through the crowd as
they felt the crisis approaching.

But Multnomah saw nothing, and the circle of Willamette warriors were stolidly indifferent.

"Can they not see that the tribes are on the verge of revolt?" thought Cecil, anxiously, fearing
a bloody massacre.

"You have heard the words of the rebel. What have you to say? Let the white man speak first,
as he was the last to join us."

Cecil rose and pictured in the common Willamette tongue, with which he had familiarized himself
during his long stay with the Cayuses, the terrible results of disunion, the desolating consequences
of war,--tribe clashing against tribe and their common enemies trampling on them all. Even
those who were on the verge of insurrection listened reverently to the "white wizard," who
had drawn wisdom from the Great Spirit; but it did not shake their purpose. Their own dreamers
had talked with the Great Spirit too, in trance and vision, and had promised them victory over
the Willamettes.

Tohomish followed; and Cecil, who had known some of the finest orators in Europe, listened
in amazement to a voice the most musical he had ever heard. He looked in wonder on the repulsive
features that seemed so much at variance with those melodious intonations. Tohomish pleaded
for union and for the death of the rebel. It seemed for a moment as if his soft, persuasive
accents would win the day, but it was only for a moment; the spell was broken the instant he
ceased. Then Snoqualmie spoke. One by one, the great sachems of the Willamettes gave their
voices for death. Many of the friendly allies did not give their decision at all, but said
to Multnomah,--

"You speak for us; your word shall be our word."

When the dissatisfied chiefs were asked for their counsel, the sullen reply was given,--

"I have no tongue to-day;" or "I do not know."

Multnomah seemed not to notice their answers. Only those who knew him best saw a gleam kindling
in his eyes that told of a terrible vengeance drawing near. The captive waited passively, seeming
neither to see nor hear.

At length all had spoken or had an opportunity to speak, and Multnomah rose to give the final
decision. Beyond the circle of Willamettes, who were still indifferent and unconcerned, the
discontented bands had thrown aside all concealment, and stood with bared weapons in their
hands; all murmurs had ceased; there was a deathlike silence in the dense mob, which seemed
gathering itself together for a forward rush,--the commencement of a fearful massacre.

Behind it were the friendly Cayuses, but not a weapon could be seen among them. The chief saw
all; saw too that his enemies only waited for him to pronounce sentence upon the captive,--that
that was the preconcerted signal for attack. Now among some of the tribes sentence was pronounced
not by word but by gesture; there was the gesture for acquittal, the gesture for condemnation.

Multnomah lifted his right hand. There was breathless suspense. What would it be? Fixing his
eyes on the armed malcontents who were waiting to spring, he clinched his hand and made a downward
gesture, as if striking a blow. It was the death-signal, the death-sentence.

In an instant a deafening shout rang through the grove, and the bloodthirsty mob surged forward
to the massacre.

Then, so suddenly that it blended with and seemed a part of the same shout, the dreaded Willamette
war-cry shook the earth. Quick as thought, the Willamettes who had been lounging so idly around
the grove were on their feet, their blankets thrown aside, the weapons that had been concealed
under them ready in their hands. A wall of indomitable warriors had leaped up around the grove.
At the same moment, the Cayuses in the rear bared their weapons and shouted back the Willamette
war-cry.

The rebels were staggered. The trap was sprung on them before they knew that there was a trap.
Those in front shrank back from the iron warriors of Multnomah, those in the rear wavered before
the fierce Cayuses. They paused, a swaying flood of humanity, caught between two lines of rock.

CHAPTER V.

SENTENCED TO THE WOLF-DEATH.

                The other, great of soul, changed not
                Countenance stern.

                                               DANTE.

In that momentary pause Multnomah did something that showed the cold disdainfulness of his
character as nothing else could have done. He had given the death-sign; he had not yet told
how or when death was to be inflicted. He gave the sentence now, as if in utter scorn of the
battle-cloud that hung quivering, ready to burst.

"He would have torn the confederacy to pieces; let him be left bound in the wood of the wolves,
and torn limb from limb by them as he would have rent the tribes asunder."

The two warriors who had brought the criminal into the council came forward, flung a covering
over his head and face, and led him away. Perhaps no custom of the northwestern Indians was
more sombre than this,--the covering of the culprit's eyes from the time of his sentence till
his death. Never again were those eyes to behold the sun.

Then, and not till then, did Multnomah turn his gaze on the malcontents, who stood, desperate
but hesitating, hemmed in by the Willamettes and the Cayuses.

"You have chosen the tomahawk instead of the peace-pipe. Shall Multnomah choose the tomahawk
also? Know you not that Multnomah holds your lives in his hand, and that he can crush you like
an eggshell if he chooses?"

The war-chief lifted his arm as he spoke, and slowly closed his fingers till his hand was clinched.
The eyes of Willamette and tributary alike hung on those slowly closing fingers, with their
own strained on their tomahawks. That was half the death-signal! Would he give the other half,--the
downward gesture? The baffled rebels tasted all the bitterness of death in that agonizing suspense.
They felt that their lives were literally in his grasp; and so the stern autocrat wished them
to feel, for he knew it was a lesson they would never forget.

At length he spoke.

"Drop your weapons and Multnomah will forget what he has seen, and all will be well. Strike
but a blow, and not one of you will ever go back over the trail to his home."

Then he turned to the chiefs, and there was that in his tones which told them to expect no mercy.

"How comes it that your braves lift their tomahawks against Multnomah in his own council and
on his own land? Speak! chiefs must answer for their people."

There was sullen silence for a little time; then one of them muttered that it was the young
men; their blood was hot, they were rash, and the chiefs could not control them.

"Can you not control your young men? Then you are not fit to be chiefs, and are chiefs no longer."
He gave a signal to certain of the Willamettes who had come up behind the rebellious leaders,
as they stood confused and hesitating in the council. They were seized and their hands bound
ere they could defend themselves; indeed, they made no effort to do so, but submitted doggedly.

"Take them down the Wauna in the sea-canoes and sell them as slaves to the Nootkas who hunt
seal along the coast. Their people shall see their faces no more. Slaves in the ice-land of
the North shall they live and die."

The swarthy cheeks of the captives grew ashen, and a shudder went through that trapped and
surrounded mob of malcontents. Indian slavery was always terrible; but to be slaves to the
brutal Indians of the north, starved, beaten, mutilated, chilled, and benumbed in a land of
perpetual frost; to perish at last in the bleak snow and winter of almost arctic coasts,--that
was a fate worse than the torture-stake.

Dreadful as it was, not a chief asked for mercy. Silently they went with their captors out
of the grove and down the bank to the river's edge. A large sea-canoe, manned by Chinook paddlers,
was floating at the beach. They quickly embarked, the paddles dipped, the canoe glided out
into the current and down the stream. In a few moments the cottonwood along the river's edge
hid it from sight, and the rebels were forever beyond the hope of rescue.

Swift and merciless had the vengeance of Multnomah fallen, and the insurrection had been crushed
at a blow. It had taken but a moment, and it had all passed under the eyes of the malcontents,
who were still surrounded by the loyal warriors.

When the canoe had disappeared and the gaze of that startled and awed multitude came back to
Multnomah, he made a gesture of dismissal. The lines drew aside and the rebels were free.

While they were still bewildered and uncertain what to do, Multnomah instantly and with consummate
address called the attention of the council to other things, thereby apparently assuming that
the trouble was ended and giving the malcontents to understand that no further punishment was
intended. Sullenly, reluctantly, they seemed to accept the situation, and no further indications
of revolt were seen that day.

Popular young men, the bravest of their several tribes, were appointed by Multnomah to fill
the vacant chieftainships; and that did much toward allaying the discontent. Moreover, some
troubles between different tribes of the confederacy, which had been referred to him for arbitration,
were decided with rare sagacity. At length the council ended for the day, the star of the Willamettes
still in the ascendant, the revolt seemingly subdued.

So the first great crisis passed.

                  *       *       *       *       *

That evening a little band of Willamette warriors led the rebel sachem, still bound and blindfolded,
down to the river's bank, where a canoe lay waiting them. His wife followed and tried to enter
it with him, as if determined to share his fortunes to the very last; but the guard thrust
her rudely away, and started the canoe. As it moved away she caught the prow wildly, despairingly,
as if she could not let her warrior go. One of the guards struck her hands brutally with his
paddle, and she released her hold. The boat glided out into the river. Not a word of farewell
had passed between the condemned man and his wife, for each disdained to show emotion in the
presence of the enemy. She remained on the bank looking after him, mute and despondent,--a
forlorn creature clothed in rags and emaciated with hunger, an outcast from all the tribes.
She might have been regarded as a symbolic figure representing woman among the Indians, as
she stood there with her bruised hands, throbbing with pain where the cruel blow had fallen,
hanging, in sullen scorn of pain, uncared for by her side. So she stood watching the canoe
glide down the river, till it was swallowed up in the gathering shadows of evening.

The canoe dropped down the river to a lonely point on the northern shore, a place much frequented
by wolves. There, many miles below the encampment on the island, they disembarked and took
the captive into the wood. He walked among them with a firm and even tread; there was no sign
of flinching, though he must have known that his hour was close at hand. They bound him prostrate
at the foot of an oak, tying him to the hard, tough roots that ran over the ground like a network,
and from which the earth had been washed away, so that thongs could be passed around them.

Head and foot they bound him, drawing the rawhide thongs so tight that they sank into the flesh,
and knotting them, till no effort possible to him could have disentangled him. It was on his
lips to ask them to leave one arm free, so that he might at least die fighting, though it were
with but one naked hand. But he hated them too much to ask even that small favor, and so submitted
in disdainful silence.

The warriors all went back to the canoe, except one, an old hunter, famed for his skill in
imitating every cry of bird or beast. Standing beside the bound and prostrate man, he sent
forth into the forest the cry of a wolf. It rang in a thousand echoes and died away, evoking
no response. He listened a moment with bated breath, but could hear nothing but the deep heart-beat
of the man at his feet. Another cry, with its myriad echoes, was followed by the oppressive
sense of stillness that succeeds an outcry in a lonely wood. Then came a faint, a far-off sound,
the answer of a wolf to a supposed mate. The Indian replied, and the answer sounded nearer;
then another blended with it, as the pack began to gather. Again the Indian gave the cry, wild
and wolfish, as only a barbarian, half-beast by virtue of his own nature, could have uttered
it. An awful chorus of barking and howling burst through the forest as the wolves came on,
eager for blood.

The Indian turned and rejoined his comrades at the canoe. They pushed out into the river, but
held the boat in the current by an occasional paddle-stroke, and waited listening. Back at
the foot of the tree the captive strained every nerve and muscle in one mighty effort to break
the cords that bound him; but it was useless, and he lay back with set teeth and rigid muscles,
while his eyes sought in vain through their thick covering to see the approach of his foes.
Presently a fierce outburst of howls and snarls told the listeners that the wolves had found
their prey. They lingered and listened a little longer, but no sound or cry was heard to tell
of the last agony under those rending fangs; the chief died in silence. Then the paddles were
dipped again in the water, and the canoe glided up the river to the camp.

When they reached the shore they found the rebel's wife awaiting them in the place where they
had left her. She asked no questions; she only came close and looked at their faces in the
dusk, and read there the thing she sought to know. Then she went silently away. In a little
while the Indian wail for the dead was sounding through the forest.

"What is that?" asked the groups around the camp fires.

"The rebel chief's wife wailing the death-wail for her husband," was the low reply; and in
that way the tribes knew that the sentence had been carried out. Many bands were there, of
many languages, but all knew what that death-wail meant the instant it fell upon their ears.
Multnomah heard it as he sat in council with his chiefs, and there was something in it that
shook even his iron heart; for all the wilder, more superstitious elements of the Indians thrilled
to two things,--the war-cry and the death-wail. He dismissed his chiefs and went to his lodge.
On the way he encountered Tohomish, lurking, as was his wont, under the shadow of the trees.

"What think you now, Tohomish, you who love darkness and shadow, what think you? Is not the
arm of the Willamette strong? Has it not put down revolt to-day, and held the tribes together?"

The Pine Voice looked at him sorrowfully.

"The vision I told in the council has come back to me again. The cry of woe I heard far off
then is nearer now, and the throng on the death-trail passes thicker and swifter. That which
covered their faces is lifted, and their faces are the faces of Willamettes, and Multnomah
is among them. The time is close at hand."

"Say this before our enemies, and, strong tomanowos though you are, you die!" said the chief,
laying his hand on his tomahawk. But the seer was gone, and Multnomah stood alone among the trees.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Every evening at dusk, the widow of the rebel sachem went out into the woods near the camp
and wailed her dead. Every night that wild, desolate lament was lifted and rang through the
great encampment,--a cry that was accusation, defiance, and lament; and even Multnomah dared
not silence her, for among the Indians a woman lamenting her dead was sacred. So, while Multnomah
labored and plotted for union by day, that mournful cry raised the spirit of wrath and rebellion
by night. And thus the dead liberator was half avenged.

BOOK IV.

THE LOVE TALE.

CHAPTER I.

THE INDIAN TOWN.

            The bare ground with hoarie mosse bestrowed
            Must be their bed, their pillow was unsowed
            And the frutes of the forrest was their feast.

                                      The Faërie Queene.

Never before had there come to Cecil so grand an opportunity for disseminating gospel truth.
The work of half a lifetime might be done in a few days.

"The tribes are all gathered together in one encampment, and I can talk with them all, tell
them of God, of the beauty of heaven and of the only Way. Then, when they disperse, they will
carry my teaching in every direction, and so it will be scattered throughout all this wild land."

This was the thought that came to Cecil when he awoke on the morning after the trial. Now was
the time to work! Now was the time for every element of argument, persuasion, and enthusiasm
to be exerted to the utmost.

Earnestly did he pray that morning, kneeling in his lodge beside his couch of furs, that God
would be with and help him. And as he prayed, warm and glowing was the love and tenderness
that filled his heart. When the day was a little more advanced, he entered upon his work. The
camp was astir with life; nearly all had finished their morning meal, and the various employments
and diversions of the day were begun. Each tribe or band had pitched its lodges apart, though
not far from the others. It was not so much an encampment as a group of many encampments, and
the whole made up a scattered town of huts and wigwams.

A precarious and uncertain quiet had succeeded the agitation of the day before. Multnomah's
energy had awed the malcontents into temporary submission, and the different bands were mingling
freely with one another; though here and there a chief or warrior looked on contemptuously,
standing moodily apart, wrapped in his blanket. Now and then when a Willamette passed a group
who were talking and gesticulating animatedly they would become silent all at once till the
representative of the dreaded race was out of hearing, when a storm of indignant gutterals
would burst forth; but there were no other indications of hostility.

Groups were strolling from place to place observing curiously the habits and customs of other
tribes; the common Willamette tongue, precursor of the more modern Chinook jargon, furnishing
a means of intercourse. Everywhere Cecil found talk, barter, diversion. It was a rude caricature
of civilization, the picture of society in its infancy, the rough dramatization of that phase
through which every race passes in its evolution from barbarism.

At one place, a hunter from the interior was bartering furs for hiagua shells to a native of
the sea-coast. At another, a brave skilled in wood-work had his stock of bows and arrows spread
out before him, and an admiring crowd were standing around looking on. But the taciturn brave
sat coolly polishing and staining his arrows as if he were totally unconscious of spectators,
until the magical word "buy" was mentioned, when he at once awoke to life and drove a bargain
in bow and quiver versus dried berries and "ickters" that would have done credit to a Yankee.

At one place sat an old warrior from the upper Columbia, making arrow-heads, chipping off the
little scales of flint with infinite patience, literally wearing the stone into the requisite
shape. Beside him lay a small pack of flints brought from beyond the mountains, for such stone
was rarely found along the lower Columbia. Squaws sat in front of their wigwams sewing mats,--carefully
sorting the rushes, putting big ends with little ends, piercing each with a bodkin, and sewing
them all together with a long bone needle threaded with buckskin or sinew. Others were weaving
that water-tight wickerwork which was, perhaps, the highest art to which the Oregon Indians
ever attained. Here a band of Indians were cooking, feasting, laughing, shouting around a huge
sturgeon captured the night before. There a circle of gamblers were playing "hand,"--passing
a small stick secretly from hand to hand and guessing whose hand contained it,--singing as
they played that monotonous "ho-ha, ho-ha, ho-ha," which was the inseparable accompaniment
of dancing, gambling, and horseback riding.

Among them all Cecil moved with the calm dignity he had acquired from long intercourse with
the Indians. Wherever he went there was silence and respect, for was he not the great white
medicine-man? Gambling circles paused in the swift passage of the stick and the monotone of
the chant to look and to comment; buyers and sellers stopped to gaze and to question; children
who had been building miniature wigwams of sticks or floating bark canoes in the puddles, ran
away at his approach and took shelter in the thickets, watching him with twinkling black eyes.

Wherever there was opportunity, he stopped and talked, scattering seed-thoughts in the dark
minds of the Indians. Wherever he paused a crowd would gather; whenever he entered a wigwam
a throng collected at the door.

Let us glance for a moment into the domestic life of the Indians as Cecil saw it that morning.

He enters one of the large bark huts of the Willamette Indians, a long, low building, capable
of sheltering sixty or seventy persons. The part around the door is painted to represent a
man's face, and the entrance is through the mouth. Within, he finds a spacious room perhaps
eighty or a hundred feet long by twenty wide, with rows of rude bunks rising tier above tier
on either side. In the centre are the stones and ashes of the hearth; above is an aperture
in the roof for the escape of smoke; around the hearth mats are spread to sit upon; the bare
ground, hard and trodden, forms the only floor, and the roof is made of boards that have been
split out with mallet and wedges.

Cecil enters and stands a moment in silence; then the head of the house advances and welcomes
him. The best mat is spread for him to sit upon; food is brought,--pounded fish, nuts, and
berries, and a kind of bread made of roots cooked, crushed together, and cut in slices when
cold. All this is served on a wooden platter, and he must eat whether hungry or not; for to
refuse would be the grossest affront that could be offered a Willamette host, especially if
it were presented by his own hands. The highest honor that a western Oregon Indian could do
his guest was to wait on him instead of letting his squaw do it. The Indian host stands beside
Cecil and says, in good-humored hospitality, "Eat, eat much," nor is he quite pleased if he
thinks that his visitor slights the offered food. When the guest can be no longer persuaded
to eat more, the food is removed, the platter is washed in water, and dried with a wisp of
twisted grass; a small treasure of tobacco is produced from a little buckskin pocket and a
part of it carefully mixed with dried leaves;[10] the pipe is filled and smoked. Then, and
not till then, may the Indian host listen to the talk of the white man.

So it was in lodge after lodge; he must first eat, be it ever so little. Two centuries later,
the Methodist and Congregational missionaries found themselves confronted with the same oppressive
hospitality among the Rocky Mountain Indians.[11] Nay, they need not visit a wigwam; let them
but stroll abroad through the village, and if they were popular and the camp was well supplied
with buffalo-meat, messengers would come with appalling frequency, bearing the laconic invitation,
"Come and eat;" and the missionary must go, or give offence, even though he had already gone
to half a dozen wigwams on the same errand. There is a grim humor in a missionary's eating
fresh buffalo-meat in the cause of religion until he is like to burst, and yet heroically going
forth to choke down a few mouthfuls more, lest he offend some dusky convert.

At one house Cecil witnessed a painful yet comical scene. The Willamettes were polygamists,
each brave having as many wives as he was able to buy; and Cecil was in a lodge where the brother
of the head man of that lodge brought home his second wife. At the entrance of the second wife,
all gay in Indian finery, the first did not manifest the sisterly spirit proper for the occasion.
After sitting awhile in sullen silence, she arose and began to kick the fire about, accompanying
that performance with gutteral exclamations addressed to no one in particular; she struck the
dog, which chanced to be in the way, sending it yelping from the wigwam; and then, having worked
herself into a rage, began to scold her husband, who listened grimly but said nothing. At last
she turned on her new-found sister, struck her, and began to lay rending hands on the finery
that their mutual husband had given her. That was instantly resented; and in a few moments
the squaws were rolling on the floor, biting, scratching, and pulling each other's hair with
the fury of devils incarnate. The dogs, attracted by the tumult, ran in and began to bark at
them; the Indians outside the hut gathered at the door, looking in and laughing; the husband
contemplated them as they rolled fighting at his feet, and then looked at Cecil. It was undoubtedly
trying to Indian dignity but the warrior sustained his admirably. "Bad, very bad," was the
only comment he allowed himself to make. Cecil took his leave, and the brave kept up his air
of indifference until the white man had gone. Then he quietly selected a cudgel from the heap
of fire-wood by the doorway, and in a short time peace reigned in the wigwam.

In a lodge not far away, Cecil witnessed another scene yet more barbarous than this. He found
a little blind boy sitting on the ground near the fire, surrounded by a quantity of fish-bones
which he had been picking. He was made a subject for the taunting jibes and laughter of a number
of men and women squatting around him. His mother sat by in the most cruel apathy and unconcern,
and only smiled when Cecil expressed commiseration for her unfortunate and peculiarly unhappy
child. It had been neglected and seemed almost starved. Those around apparently took pleasure
in tormenting it and rendering it miserable, and vied with each other in applying to it insulting
and degrading epithets. The little articles that Cecil gave to it, in the hope that the Indians
seeing him manifest an interest in it would treat it more tenderly, it put to its mouth eagerly;
but not finding them eatable, it threw them aside in disgust. Cecil turned away sick at heart.
Worn, already weary, this last sight was intolerable; and he went out into the woods, away
from the camp.

But as he walked along he seemed to see the child again, so vividly had it impressed his imagination.
It rose before him in the wood, when the noise of the camp lay far behind; it seemed to turn
its sightless eyes upon him and reach out its emaciated arms as if appealing for help.[12]

Out in the wood he came across an Indian sitting on a log, his face buried in his hands, his
attitude indicating sickness or despondency. He looked up as Cecil approached. It was the young
Willamette runner who had been his companion on the journey down the Columbia. His face was
haggard; he was evidently very sick. The missionary stopped and tried to talk with him, but
could evoke little response, except that he did not want to talk, and that he wanted to be
left alone. He seemed so moody and irritable that Cecil thought it best to leave him. His experience
was that talking with a sick Indian was very much like stirring up a wounded rattlesnake. So
he left the runner and went on into the forest, seeking the solitude without which he could
scarcely have lived amid the degrading barbarism around him. His spirit required frequent communion
with God and Nature, else he would have died of weariness and sickness of heart.

Wandering listlessly, he went on further and further from the camp, never dreaming of what
lay before him, or of the wild sweet destiny to which that dim Indian trail was leading him
through the shadowy wood.

-----

[10] Lewis and Clark.

[11] See Parkman's "Oregon Trail," also, Parker's work on
     Oregon.

[12] See Townsend's Narrative, pages 182-183.

CHAPTER II.

THE WHITE WOMAN IN THE WOOD.

       I seek a sail that never looms from out the purple haze
       At rosy dawn, or fading eve, or in the noontide's blaze.

                                                 CELIA THAXTER.

Cecil walked listlessly on through the wood. He was worn out by the day's efforts, though it
was as yet but the middle of the afternoon. There was a feeling of exhaustion in his lungs,
a fluttering pain about his heart, the result of years of over-work upon a delicate frame.
With this feeling of physical weakness came always the fear that his strength might give way
ere his work was done. Nor was this all. In these times of depression, the longing to see again
the faces of his friends, to have again the sweet graceful things of the life that was forever
closed to him, rushed over him in a bitter flood.

The trail led him to the bank of the Columbia, some distance below the encampment. He looked
out over the blue river sweeping majestically on, the white snow-peaks, the canyons deep in
the shadows of afternoon, the dense forest beyond the river extending away to the unknown and
silent North as far as his eyes could reach.

"It is wonderful, wonderful!" he thought. "But I would give it all to look upon one white face."

So musing, he passed on down the bank of the river. He was now perhaps two miles from the camp
and seemingly in complete solitude. After a little the path turned away from the beach and
led toward the interior. As he entered the woodland he came upon several Indian sentinels who
lay, bow in hand, beside the path. They sprang up, as if to intercept his passage; but seeing
that it was the white shaman whom Multnomah had honored, and who had sat at the council with
the great sachems, they let him go on. Cecil indistinctly remembered having heard from some
of the Indians that this part of the island was strictly guarded; he had forgotten why. So
absorbed was he in his gloomy reflections that he did not stop to question the sentinels, but
went on, not thinking that he might be treading on forbidden ground. By and by the path emerged
from the wood upon a little prairie; the cottonwoods shut out the Indians from him, and he
was again alone. The sunshine lay warm and golden on the little meadow, and he strolled forward
mechanically, thinking how like it was to some of the sylvan lawns of his own New England forests.
Again the shade of trees fell over the path. He looked up, his mind full of New England memories,
and saw something that made his heart stand still. For there, not far from him, stood a girl
clad in soft flowing drapery, the dress of a white woman. In Massachusetts a woman's dress
would have been the last thing Cecil would have noticed. Now, so long accustomed to the Indian
squaws' rough garments of skin or plaited bark, the sight of that graceful woven cloth sent
through him an indescribable thrill.

He went on, his eager eyes drinking in the welcome sight, yet scarcely believing what he saw.

She had not yet observed him. The profile of her half-averted face was very sweet and feminine;
her form was rounded, and her hair fell in long black ringlets to the shoulders. He was in
the presence of a young and beautiful woman,--a white woman! All this he noted at a glance;
noted, too, the drooping lashes, the wistful lines about the lips, the mournful expression
that shadowed the beauty of her face.

Who was she? Where could she have come from?

She heard the approaching footsteps and turned toward him. Absolute bewilderment was on her
face for a moment, and then it glowed with light and joy. Her dark, sad eyes sparkled. She
was radiant, as if some great, long-looked for happiness had come to her. She came eagerly
toward him, holding out her hands in impetuous welcome; saying something in a language he did
not understand, but which he felt could not be Indian, so refined and pleasing were the tones.

He answered he knew not what, in his own tongue, and she paused perplexed. Then he spoke again,
this time in Willamette.

She shrank back involuntarily.

"That language?" she replied in the same tongue, but with a tremor of disappointment in her
voice. "I thought you were of my mother's race and spoke her language. But you are white, like
her people?"

She had given him both her hands, and he stood holding them; looking down into her eager, lifted
face, where a great hope and a great doubt in mingled light and shadow strove together.

"I am a white man. I came from a land far to the East. But who are you, and how came you here?"

She did not seem to hear the last words, only the first.

"No, no," she protested eagerly, "you came not from the East but from the West, the land across
the sea that my mother came from in the ship that was wrecked." And she withdrew one hand and
pointed toward the wooded range beyond which lay the Pacific.

He shook his head. "No, there are white people in those lands too, but I never saw them. I
came from the East," he said, beginning to surmise that she must be an Asiatic. She drew away
the hand that he still held in his, and her eyes filled with tears.

"I thought you were one of my mother's people," she murmured; and he felt that the pang of
an exceeding disappointment was rilling her heart.

"Who are you?" he asked gently.

"The daughter of Multnomah."

Cecil remembered now what he had heard of the dead white wife of Multnomah, and of her daughter,
who, it was understood among the tribes, was to be given to Snoqualmie. He noticed, too, for
the first time the trace of the Indian in her expression, as the light faded from it and it
settled back into the despondent look habitual to it. All that was chivalrous in his nature
went out to the fair young creature; all his being responded to the sting of her disappointment.

"I am not what you hoped I was, but your face is like the face of the women of my own land.
Shall we not be friends?"

She looked up wistfully at the handsome and noble countenance above her, so different from
the stolid visages she had known so long.

"Yes; you are not Indian."

In that one expression she unconsciously told Cecil how her sensitive nature shrank from the
barbarism around her; how the tastes and aspirations she had inherited from her mother reached
out for better and higher things.

In a little while they were seated on a grassy bank in the shade of the trees, talking together.
She bade him tell her of his people. She listened intently; the bright, beautiful look came
back as she heard the tale.

"They are kind to women, instead of making them mere burden-bearers; they have pleasant homes;
they dwell in cities? Then they are like my mother's people."

"They are gentle, kind, humane. They have all the arts that light up life and make it beautiful,--not
like the tribes of this grim, bloodstained land."

"This land!" Her face darkened and she lifted her hand in a quick, repelling gesture. "This
land is a grave. The clouds lie black and heavy on the spirit that longs for the sunlight and
cannot reach it." She turned to him again. "Go on, your words are music."

He continued, and she listened till the story of his country and his wanderings was done. When
he ended, she drew a glad, deep breath; her eyes were sparkling with joy.

"I am content," she said, in a voice in which there was a deep heart-thrill of happiness. "Since
my mother died I have been alone, all alone; and I longed, oh so often, for some one who talked
and felt as she did to come to me, and now you have come. I sat cold and shivering in the night
a long time, but the light and warmth have come at last. Truly, Allah is good!"

"Allah!"

"Yes; he was my mother's God, as the Great Spirit is my father's."

"They are both names for the same All Father," replied Cecil. "They mean the same thing, even
as the sun is called by many names by many tribes, yet there is but the one sun."

"Then I am glad. It is good to learn that both prayed to the one God, though they did not know
it. But my mother taught me to use the name of Allah, and not the other. And while my father
and the tribes call me by my Indian name, 'Wallulah,' she gave me another, a secret name, that
I was never to forget."

"What is it?"

"I have never told it, but I will tell you, for you can understand."

And she gave him a singularly melodious name, of a character entirely different from any he
had ever heard, but which he guessed to be Arabic or Hindu.

"It means, 'She who watches for the morning.' My mother told me never to forget it, and to
remember that I was not to let myself grow to be like the Indians, but to pray to Allah, and
to watch and hope, and that sometime the morning would come and I would be saved from the things
around me. And now you have come and the dawn comes with you."

Her glad, thankful glance met his; the latent grace and mobility of her nature, all roused
and vivid under his influence, transfigured her face, making it delicately lovely. A great
pang of longing surged through him.

"Oh," he thought, "had I not become a missionary, I might have met and loved some one like
her! I might have filled my life with much that is now gone from it forever!"

For eight years he had seen only the faces of savage women and still more savage men; for eight
years his life had been steeped in bitterness, and all that was tender or romantic in his nature
had been cramped, as in iron fetters, by the coarseness and stolidity around him. Now, after
all that dreary time, he met one who had the beauty and the refinement of his own race. Was
it any wonder that her glance, the touch of her dress or hair, the soft tones of her voice,
had for him an indescribable charm? Was it any wonder that his heart went out to her in a yearning
tenderness that although not love was dangerously akin to it?

He was startled at the sweet and burning tumult of emotion she was kindling within him. What
was he thinking of? He must shake these feelings off, or leave her. Leave her! The gloom of
the savagery that awaited him at the camp grew tenfold blacker than ever. All the light earth
held for him seemed gathered into the presence of this dark-eyed girl who sat talking so musically,
so happily, by his side.

"I must go," he forced himself to say at length, "The sun is almost down."

"Must you go so soon?"

"I will come again if you wish."

"But you must not go yet; wait till the sun reaches the mountain-tops yonder. I want you to
tell me more about your own land."

So he lingered and talked while the sun sank lower and lower in the west. It seemed to him
that it had never gone down so fast before.

"I must go now," he said, rising as the sun's red disk sank behind the mountains.

"It is not late; see, the sun is shining yet on the brow of the snow mountains."

Both looked at the peaks that towered grandly in the light of the sunken sun while all the
world below lay in shadow. Together they watched the mighty miracle of the afterglow on Mount
Tacoma, the soft rose-flush that transfigured the mountain till it grew transparent, delicate,
wonderful.

"That is what my life is now,--since you have brought the light to the 'watcher for the morning;'"
and she looked up at him with a bright, trustful smile.

"Alas?" thought Cecil, "it is not the light of morning but of sunset."

Slowly the radiance faded, the rose tint passed; the mountain grew white and cold under their
gaze, like the face of death. Wallulah shuddered as if it were a prophecy.

"You will come back to-morrow?" she said, looking at him with her large, appealing eyes.

"I will come," he said.

"It will seem long till your return, yet I have lived so many years waiting for that which
has come at last that I have learned to be patient."

"Ask God to help you in your hours of loneliness and they will not seem so long and dark,"
said Cecil, whose soul was one tumultuous self-reproach that he had let the time go by without
telling her more of God.

"Ah!" she said in a strange, wistful way, "I have prayed to him so much, but he could not fill
all my heart. I wanted so to touch a hand and look on a face like my mother's. But God has
sent you, and so I know he must be good."

They parted, and he went back to the camp.

"Is my mission a failure?" he thought, as he walked along, clinching his hands in furious anger
with himself. "Why do I let a girl's beauty move me thus, and she the promised wife of another?
How dare I think of aught beside the work God has sent me here to do? Oh, the shame and guilt
of such weakness! I will be faithful. I will never look upon her face again!"

He emerged from the wood into the camp; its multitudinous sounds were all around him, and never
had the coarseness and savagery of Indian life seemed so repellent as now, when he came back
to it with his mind full of Wallulah's grace and loveliness. It was harsh discord after music.

Stripped and painted barbarians were hallooing, feasting, dancing; the whole camp was alive
with boisterous hilarity, the result of a day of good fellowship. Mothers were calling their
children in the dusk and young men were sportively answering, "Here I am, mother." Here and
there, Indians who had been feasting all day lay like gorged anacondas beside the remnant of
their meal; others, who had been gambling, were talking loudly of the results of the game.

Through it all the white man walked with swift footsteps, looking neither to the right nor
the left, till he gained his lodge. He flung himself on his bed and lay there, his fingers
strained together convulsively, his nerves throbbing with pain; vainly struggling with regret,
vainly repeating to himself that he cared nothing for love and home, that he had put all those
things from him, that he was engrossed now only in his work.

"Never, never! It can never be."

                  *       *       *       *       *

And the English exploring-ship in Yaquina Bay was to weigh anchor on the morrow, and sail up
nearer along the unknown coast. The Indians had all deserted the sea-board for the council.
Would Cecil hear? Would any one see the sail and bring the news?

CHAPTER III.

CECIL AND THE WAR-CHIEF.

          Children of the sun, with whom revenge is virtue.

                                                     YOUNG.

On the next day came the races, the great diversion of the Indians. Each tribe ran only one
horse,--the best it had. There were thirty tribes or bands, each with its choicest racer on
the track. The Puget Sound and lower Columbia Indians, being destitute of horses, were not
represented. There had been races every day on a small scale, but they were only private trials
of speed, while to-day was the great day of racing for all the tribes, the day when the head
chiefs ran their horses.

The competition was close, but Snoqualmie the Cayuse won the day. He rode the fine black horse
he had taken from the Bannock he had tortured to death. Multnomah and the chiefs were present,
and the victory was won under the eyes of all the tribes. The haughty, insolent Cayuse felt
that he had gained a splendid success. Only, as in the elation of victory his glance swept
over the crowd, he met the sad, unapplauding gaze of Cecil, and it made his ever burning resentment
grow hotter still.

"I hate that man," he thought. "I tried to thrust him down into slavery, and Multnomah made
him a chief. My heart tells me that he is an enemy. I hate him. I will kill him."

"Poor Wallulah!" Cecil was thinking. "What a terrible future is before her as the wife of that
inhuman torturer of men!"

And his sympathies went out to the lonely girl, the golden thread of whose life was to be interwoven
with the bloodstained warp and woof of Snoqualmie's. But he tried hard not to think of her;
he strove resolutely that day to absorb himself in his work, and the effort was not unsuccessful.

After the races were over, a solemn council was held in the grove and some important questions
discussed and decided. Cecil took part, endeavoring in a quiet way to set before the chiefs
a higher ideal of justice and mercy than their own. He was heard with grave attention, and
saw that more than one chief seemed impressed by his words. Only Snoqualmie was sullen and
inattentive, and Mishlah the Cougar was watchful and suspicious.

After the council was over Cecil went to his lodge. On the way he found the young Willamette
runner sitting on a log by the path, looking even more woebegone than he had the day before.
Cecil stopped to inquire how he was.

"Cultus [bad]," was grunted in response.

"Did you see the races?"

"Races bad. What do I care?"

"I hope you will be better soon."

"Yes, better or worse by and by. What do I care?"

"Can I do anything for you?"

"Yes."

"What is it?"

"Go."

And he dropped his hand upon his knees, doubled himself together, and refused to say another
word. As Cecil turned to go he found Multnomah standing close by, watching him.

"Come," said the stern despot, briefly. "I want to talk with you."

He led the way back through the noisy encampment to the now deserted grove of council. Everything
there was quiet and solitary; the thick circle of trees hid them from the camp, though its
various sounds floated faintly to them. They were quite alone. Multnomah seated himself on
the stone covered with furs, that was his place in the council. Cecil remained standing before
him, wondering what was on his mind. Was the war-chief aware of his interview with Wallulah?
If so, what then? Multnomah fixed on him the gaze which few men met without shrinking.

"Tell me," he said, while it seemed to Cecil as if that eagle glance read every secret of his
innermost heart, "tell me where your land is, and why you left it, and the reason for your
coming among us. Keep no thought covered, for Multnomah will see it if you do."

Cecil's eye kindled, his cheek flushed. Wallulah was forgotten; his mission, and his mission
only, was remembered. He stood before one who held over the many tribes of the Wauna the authority
of a prince: if he could but be won for Christ, what vast results might follow!

He told it all,--the story of his home and his work, his call of God to go to the Indians,
his long wanderings, the message he had to deliver, how it had been received by some and rejected
by many; now he was here, a messenger sent by the Great Spirit to tell the tribes of the Wauna
the true way of life. He told it all, and never had he been so eloquent. It was a striking
contrast, the grim Indian sitting there leaning on his bow, his sharp, treacherous gaze bent
like a bird of prey on the delicately moulded man pleading before him.

He listened till Cecil began to talk of love and forgiveness as duties enjoined by the Great
Spirit. Then he spoke abruptly.

"When you stood up in the council the day the bad chief was tried, and told of the weakness
and the wars that would come if the confederacy was broken up, you talked wisely and like a
great chief and warrior; now you talk like a woman. Love! forgiveness!" He repeated the words,
looking at Cecil with a kind of wondering scorn, as if he could not comprehend such weakness
in one who looked like a brave man. "War and hate are the life of the Indian. They are the
strength of his heart. Take them away, and you drain the blood from his veins; you break his
spirit; he becomes a squaw."

"But my people love and forgive, yet they are not squaws. They are brave and hardy in battle;
their towns are great; their country is like a garden."

And he told Multnomah of the laws, the towns, the schools, the settled habits and industry
of New England. The chief listened with growing impatience. At length he threw his arm up with
an indescribable gesture of freedom, like a man rejecting a fetter.

"How can they breathe, shut in, bound down like that? How can they live, so tied and burdened?"

"Is not that better than tribe forever warring against tribe? Is it not better to live like
men than to lurk in dens and feed on roots like beasts? Yet we will fight, too; the white man
does not love war, but he will go to battle when his cause is just and war must be."

"So will the deer and the cayote fight when they can flee no longer. The Indian loves battle.
He loves to seek out his enemy, to grapple with him, and to tread him down. That is a man's life!"

There was a wild grandeur in the chief's tone. All the tameless spirit of his race seemed to
speak through him, the spirit that has met defeat and extermination rather than bow its neck
to the yoke of civilization. Cecil realized that on the iron fibre of the war-chief's nature
his pleading made no impression whatever, and his heart sank within him.

Again he tried to speak of the ways of peace, but the chief checked him impatiently.

"That is talk for squaws and old men. Multnomah does not understand it. Talk like a man, if
you wish him to listen. Multnomah does not forgive; Multnomah wants no peace with his enemies.
If they are weak he tramples on them and makes them slaves; if they are strong he fights them.
When the Shoshones take from Multnomah, he takes from them; if they give him war he gives them
war; if they torture one Willamette at the stake, Multnomah stretches two Shoshones upon red-hot
stones. Multnomah gives hate for hate and war for war. This is the law the Great Spirit has
given the Indian. What law he has given the white man, Multnomah knows not nor cares!"

Baffled in his attempt, Cecil resorted to another line of persuasion. He set before Multnomah
the arts, the intelligence, the splendor of the white race.

"The Indian has his laws and customs, and that is well; but why not council with the white
people, even as chiefs council together? Send an embassy to ask that wise white men be sent
you, so that you may learn of their arts and laws; and what seems wise and good you can accept,
what seems not so can be set aside. I know the ways that lead back to the land of the white
man; I myself would lead the embassy."

It was a noble conception,--that of making a treaty between this magnificent Indian confederacy
and New England for the purpose of introducing civilization and religion; and for a moment
he lost sight of the insurmountable obstacles in the way.

"No," replied the chief, "neither alone nor as leader of a peace party will your feet ever
tread again the path that leads back to the land of the white man. We want not upon our shoulders
the burden of his arts and laws. We want not his teachers to tell us how to be women. If the
white man wants us, let him find his way over the desert and through the mountains, and we
will grapple with him and see which is the strongest."

So saying, the war-chief rose and left him.

"He says that I shall never be allowed to go back," thought Cecil, with a bitter consciousness
of defeat. "Then my mission ends here in the land of the Bridge, even as I have so often dreamed
that it would. So be it; I shall work the harder now that I see the end approaching. I shall
gather the chiefs in my own lodge this evening and preach to them."

While he was forming his resolution, there came the recollection that Wallulah would look for
him, would be expecting him to come to her.

"I cannot," he thought, though he yearned to go to her. "I cannot go; I must be faithful to
my mission."

Many chiefs came that night to his lodge; among them, to his surprise, Tohomish the seer. Long
and animated was Cecil's talk; beautiful and full of spiritual fervor were the words in which
he pointed them to a better life. Tohomish was impassive, listening in his usual brooding way.
The others seemed interested; but when he was done they all rose up and went away without a
word,--all except the Shoshone renegade who had helped him bury the dead Bannock. He came to
Cecil before leaving the lodge.

"Sometime," he said, "when it will be easier for me to be good than it is now, I will try to
live the life you talked about to-night."

Then he turned and went out before Cecil could reply.

"There is one at least seeking to get nearer God," thought Cecil, joyfully. After awhile his
enthusiasm faded away, and he remembered how anxiously Wallulah must have waited for him, and
how bitterly she must have been disappointed. Her face, pale and stained with tears, rose plainly
before him. A deep remorse filled his heart.

"Poor child! I am the first white person she has seen since her mother died; no wonder she
longs for my presence! I must go to her to-morrow. After all, there is no danger of my caring
for her. To me my work is all in all."

CHAPTER IV.

ARCHERY AND GAMBLING.

    To gambling they are no less passionately addicted in the
    interior than on the coast.--BANCROFT: Native Races.

The next morning came the archery games. The best marksmen of each tribe contended together
under the eyes of Multnomah, and Snoqualmie the Cayuse won the day.

These diversions were beginning to produce the result that the politic chief had intended they
should. Better feeling was springing up. The spirit of discontent that had been rife was disappearing.
Every day good-fellowship grew more and more between the Willamettes and their allies. Every
day Snoqualmie the Cayuse became more popular among the tribes, and already he was second in
influence to none but Multnomah himself.

The great war-chief had triumphed over every obstacle; and he waited now only for the last
day of the council, when his daughter should be given to Snoqualmie and the chiefs should recognize
him as the future head of the confederacy.

Knowing this, the sight of Snoqualmie's successful archery was almost intolerable to Cecil,
and he turned away from the place where the games were held.

"I will seek the young Willamette who is sick," he said to himself. "Then this evening I will
go and visit Wallulah."

The thought sent the blood coursing warmly through his veins, but he chided himself for it.
"It is but duty, I go to her only as a missionary," he repeated to himself over and over again.

He went to the lodge of the young Willamette and asked for him.

"He is not here," the father of the youth told him. "He is in the sweat-house. He is sick this
morning, hieu sick."

And the old man emphasized the hieu [much], with a prolonged intonation and a comprehensive
gesture as if the young man were very sick indeed. To the sweat-house went Cecil forthwith.
He found it to be a little arched hut, made by sticking the ends of bent willow-wands into
the ground and covering them over with skins, leaving only a small opening for entrance. When
a sick person wished to take one of those "sweat baths" so common among the Indians, stones
were heated red hot and put within the hut, and water was poured on them. The invalid, stripped
to the skin, entered, the opening was closed behind him, and he was left to steam in the vapors.

When Cecil came up, the steam was pouring between the overlapping edges of the skins, and he
could hear the young Willamette inside, chanting a low monotonous song, an endlessly repeated
invocation to his totem to make him well. How he could sing or even breathe in that stifling
atmosphere was a mystery to Cecil.

By and by the Willamette raised the flap that hung over the entrance and crawled out, hot,
steaming, perspiring at every pore. He rushed with unsteady footsteps down to the river, only
a few yards away, and plunged into the cold water. After repeatedly immersing himself, he waded
back to the shore and lay down to dry in the sun. The shock to his nervous system of plunging
from a hot steam-bath into ice-cold water fresh from the snow peaks of the north had roused
all his latent vitality. He had recovered enough to be sullen and resentful to Cecil when he
came up; and after vainly trying to talk with or help him, the missionary left him.

It is characteristic of the Indian, perhaps of most half-animal races, that their moral conduct
depends on physical feeling. Like the animal, they are good-humored, even sportive, when all
is well; like the animal, they are sluggish and unreasoning in time of sickness.

Cecil went back to the camp. He found that the archery games were over, and that a great day
of gambling had begun. He was astonished at the eagerness with which all the Indians flung
themselves into it. Multnomah alone took no part, and Tohomish, visible only at the council,
was not there. But with those two exceptions, chiefs, warriors, all flung themselves headlong
into the game.

First, some of the leading chiefs played at "hand," and each tribe backed its chief. Furs,
skins, weapons, all manner of Indian wealth was heaped in piles behind the gamblers, constituting
the stakes; and they were divided among the tribes of the winners,--each player representing
a tribe, and his winnings going, not to himself, but to his people. This rule applied, of course,
only to the great public games; in private games of "hand" each successful player kept his
own spoils.

Amid the monotonous chant that always accompanied gambling, the two polished bits of bone (the
winning one marked, the other not) were passed secretly from hand to hand. The bets were made
as to who held the marked stick and in which hand, then a show of hands was made and the game
was lost and won.

From "hand" they passed to ahikia, a game like that of dice, played with figured beaver teeth
or disks of ivory, which were tossed up, everything depending on the combination of figures
presented in their fall. It was played recklessly. The Indians were carried away by excitement.
They bet anything and everything they had. Wealthy chiefs staked their all on the turn of the
ivory disks, and some were beggared, some enriched. Cecil noticed in particular Mishlah the
Cougar, chief of the Molallies. He was like a man intoxicated. His huge bestial face was all
ablaze with excitement, his eyes were glowing like coals. He had scarcely enough intellect
to understand the game, but enough combativeness to fling himself into it body and soul. He
bet his horses and lost them; he bet his slaves and lost again; he bet his lodges, with their
rude furnishings of mat and fur, and lost once more. Maddened, furious, like a lion in the
toils, the desperate savage staked his wives and children on the throw of the ahikia, and they
were swept from him into perpetual slavery.

Then he rose up and glared upon his opponents, with his tomahawk clinched in his hand,--as
if feeling dimly that he had been wronged, thirsting for vengeance, ready to strike, yet not
knowing upon whom the blow should fall. There was death in his look, and the chiefs shrunk
from him, when his eyes met Multnomah's, who was looking on; and the war-chief checked and
awed him with his cold glance, as a tamer of beasts might subdue a rebellious tiger. Then the
Molallie turned and went away, raging, desperate, a chief still, but a chief without lodge
or wife or slave.

The sight was painful to Cecil, and he too went away while the game was at its height. Drawn
by an influence that he could not resist, he took the trail that led down the bank of the river
to the retreat of Wallulah.

CHAPTER V.

A DEAD QUEEN'S JEWELS.

             For round about the walls yclothed were
             With goodly arras of great maiesty,
             Woven with golde and silke so close and nere
             That the rich metall lurked privily.

                                     The Faërie Queene.

He found the sentinels by the pathway half reluctant to let him pass, but they did not forbid
him. Evidently it was only their awe of him as the "Great White Prophet," to whom Multnomah
had added the dignity of an Indian sachem, that overcame their scruples. It was with a sense
of doing wrong that he went on. "If Multnomah knew," he thought, "what would he do?" And brave
as Cecil was, he shuddered, thinking how deadly the wrath of the war-chief would be, if he
knew of these secret visits to his daughter.

"It is an abuse of hospitality; it is clandestine, wrong," he thought bitterly. "And yet she
is lonely, she needs me, and I must go to her; but I will never go again."

Where he had met her before, he found her waiting for him now, a small, graceful figure, standing
in the shadow of the wood. She heard his footsteps before he saw her, and the melancholy features
were transfigured with joy. She stood hesitating a moment like some shy creature of the forest,
then sprang eagerly forward to meet him.

"I knew you were coming!" she cried rapturously. "I felt your approach long before I heard
your footsteps."

"How is that?" said Cecil, holding her hands and looking down into her radiant eyes. Something
of the wild Indian mysticism flashed in them as she replied:

"I cannot tell; I knew it! my spirit heard your steps long before my ears could catch the sound.
But oh!" she cried in sudden transition, her face darkening, her eyes growing large and pathetic,
"why did you not come yesterday? I so longed for you and you did not come. It seemed as if
the day would never end. I thought that perhaps the Indians had killed you; I thought it might
be that I should never see you again; and all the world grew dark as night, I felt so terribly
alone. Promise me you will never stay away so long again!"

"Never!" exclaimed Cecil, on the impulse of the moment. An instant later he would have given
the world to have recalled the word.

"I am so glad!" she cried, clapping her hands in girlish delight; and he could not pain her
by an explanation.

"After a while I will tell her how impossible it is for me to come again," he thought. "I cannot
tell her now." And he seized upon every word and look of the lovely unconscious girl, with
a hunger of heart born of eight years' starvation.

"Now you must come with me to my lodge; you are my guest, and I shall entertain you. I want
you to look at my treasures."

Cecil went with her, wondering if they would meet Multnomah at her lodge, and if so, what he
would say. He felt that he was doing wrong, yet so sweet was it to be in her presence, so much
did her beauty fill the mighty craving of his nature, that it was not possible for him to tear
himself away.

Some fifteen minutes' walk brought them to Wallulah's lodge. It was a large building, made
of bark set upright against a frame-work of poles, and roofed with cedar boards,--in its external
appearance like all Willamette lodges. Several Indian girls, neatly dressed and of more than
ordinary intelligence, were busied in various employments about the yard. They looked in surprise
at the white man and their mistress, but said nothing. The two entered the lodge. Cecil muttered
an exclamation of amazement as he crossed the threshold.

The interior was a glow of color, a bower of richness. Silken tapestries draped and concealed
the bark walls; the floor of trodden earth was covered with a superbly figured carpet. It was
like the hall of some Asiatic palace. Cecil looked at Wallulah, and her eyes sparkled with
merriment at his bewildered expression. "I knew you would be astonished," she cried. "Is not
this as fair as anything in your own land? No, wait till I show you another room!"

She led the way to an inner apartment, drew back the tapestry that hung over the doorway, and
bade him enter.

Never, not even at St. James or at Versailles, had he seen such magnificence. The rich many-hued
products of Oriental looms covered the rough walls; the carpet was like a cushion; mirrors
sparkling with gems reflected his figure; luxurious divans invited to repose. Everywhere his
eye met graceful draperies and artistically blended colors. Silk and gold combined to make
up a scene that was like a dream of fable. Cecil's dazzled eyes wandered over all this splendor,
then came back to Wallulah's face again.

"I have seen nothing like this in my own land, not even in the King's palace. How came such
beautiful things here among the Indians?"

"They were saved from the vessel that was wrecked. They were my mother's, and she had them
arranged thus. This was her lodge. It is mine now. I have never entered any other. I have never
been inside an Indian wigwam. My mother forbade it, for fear that I might grow like the savage
occupants."

Cecil knew now how she had preserved her grace and refinement amid her fierce and squalid surroundings.
Again her face changed and the wistful look came back. Her wild delicate nature seemed to change
every moment, to break out in a hundred varying impulses.

"I love beautiful things," she said, drawing a fold of tapestry against her cheek. "They seem
half human. I love to be among them and feel their influence. These were my mother's, and it
seems as if part of her life was in them. Sometimes, after she died, I used to shut my eyes
and put my cheek against the soft hangings and try to think it was the touch of her hand; or
I would read from her favorite poets and try to think that I heard her repeating them to me again!"

"Read!" exclaimed Cecil; "then you have books?"

"Oh, yes, I will show you all my treasures."

She went into another apartment and returned with a velvet case and a richly enchased casket.
She opened the case and took out several rolls of parchment.

"Here they are, my dear old friends, that have told me so many beautiful things."

Cecil unrolled them with a scholar's tenderness. Their touch thrilled him; it was touching
again some familiar hand parted from years ago. The parchments were covered with strange characters,
in a language entirely unknown to him. The initial letters were splendidly illuminated, the
margins ornamented with elaborate designs. Cecil gazed on the scrolls, as one who loves music
but who is ignorant of its technicalities might look at a sonata of Beethoven or an opera of
Wagner, and be moved by its suggested melodies.

"I cannot read it," he said a little sadly.

"Sometime I will teach you," she replied; "and you shall teach me your own language, and we
will talk in it instead of this wretched Indian tongue."

"Tell me something about it now," asked Cecil, still gazing at the unknown lines.

"Not now, there is so much else to talk about; but I will to-morrow."

To-morrow! The word pierced him like a knife. For him, a missionary among barbarians, for her,
the betrothed of a savage chief, the morrow could bring only parting and woe; the sweet, fleeting
present was all they could hope for. For them there could be no to-morrow. Wallulah, however,
did not observe his dejection. She had opened the casket, and now placed it between them as
they sat together on the divan. One by one, she took out the contents and displayed them. A
magnificent necklace of diamonds, another of pearls; rings, brooches, jewelled bracelets, flashed
their splendor on him. Totally ignorant of their great value, she showed them only with a true
woman's love of beautiful things, showed them as artlessly as if they were but pretty shells
or flowers.

"Are they not bright?" she would say, holding them up to catch the light. "How they sparkle!"

One she took up a little reluctantly. It was an opal, a very fine one. She held it out, turning
it in the light, so that he might see the splendid jewel glow and pale.

"Is it not lovely?" she said; "like sun-tints on the snow. But my mother said that in her land
it is called the stone of misfortune. It is beautiful, but it brings trouble with it."

He saw her fingers tremble nervously as they held it, and she dropped it from them hurriedly
into the casket, as if it were some bright poisonous thing she dreaded to touch.

After a while, when Cecil had sufficiently admired the stones, she put them back into the casket
and took it and the parchments away. She came back with her flute, and seating herself, looked
at him closely.

"You are sad; there are heavy thoughts on your mind. How is that? He who brings me sunshine
must not carry a shadow on his own brow. Why are you troubled?"

The trouble was that he realized now, and was compelled to acknowledge to himself, that he
loved this gentle, clinging girl, with a passionate love; that he yearned to take her in his
arms and shelter her from the terrible savagery before her; and that he felt it could not,
must not be.

"It is but little," he replied. "Every heart has its burden, and perhaps I have mine. It is
the lot of man."

She looked at him with a vague uneasiness; her susceptible nature responded dimly to the tumultuous
emotions that he was trying by force of will to shut up in his own heart.

"Trouble? Oh, do I not know how bitter it is! Tell me, what do your people do when they have
trouble? Do they cut off their hair and blacken their faces, as the Indians do, when they lose
one they love?"

"No, they would scorn to do anything so degrading. He is counted bravest who makes the least
display of grief and yet always cherishes a tender remembrance of the dead."

"So would I. My mother forbade me to cut off my hair or blacken my face when she died, and
so I did not, though some of the Indians thought me bad for not doing so. And your people are
not afraid to talk of the dead?"

"Most certainly not. Why should we be? We know that they are in a better world, and their memories
are dear to us. It is very sweet sometimes to talk of them."

"But the Willamettes never talk of their dead, for fear they may hear their names spoken and
come back. Why should they dread their coming back? Ah, if my mother only would come back!
How I used to long and pray for it!"

Cecil began to talk to her about the love and goodness of God. If he could only see her sheltered
in the Divine compassion, he could trust her to slip from him into the unknown darkness of
her future. She listened earnestly.

"Your words are good," she said in her quaint phraseology; "and if trouble comes to me again
I shall remember them. But I am very happy now."

The warmth and thankfulness of her glance sent through him a great thrill of blended joy and pain.

"You forget," he said, forcing himself to be calm, "that you are soon to leave your home and
become the wife of Snoqualmie."

Wallulah raised her hand as if to ward off a blow, her features quivering with pain. She tried
to reply, but for an instant the words faltered on her lips. He saw it, and a fierce delight
leaped up in his heart. "She does not love him, it is I whom she cares for," he thought; and
then he thrust the thought down in indignant self-reproach.

"I do not care for Snoqualmie; I once thought I did, but--"

She hesitated, the quick color flushed her face; for the first time she seemed in part, though
not altogether, aware of why she had changed.

For an instant Cecil felt as if he must speak; but the consequences rose before him while the
words were almost on his lips. If he spoke and won her love, Multnomah would force her into
a marriage with Snoqualmie just the same; and if the iron despot were to consent and give her
to Cecil, the result would be a bloody war with Snoqualmie.

"I cannot, I must not," thought Cecil. He rose to his feet; his one impulse was to get away,
to fight out the battle with himself. Wallulah grew pale.

"You are going?" she said, rising also. "Something in your face tells me you are not coming
back," and she looked at him with strained, sad, wistful eyes.

He stood hesitating, torn by conflicting emotions, not knowing what to do.

"If you do not come back, I shall die," she said simply.

As they stood thus, her flute slipped from her relaxed fingers and fell upon the floor. He
picked it up and gave it to her, partly through the born instinct of the gentleman, which no
familiarity with barbarism can entirely crush out, partly through the tendency in time of intense
mental strain to relieve the mind by doing any little thing.

She took it, lifted it to her lips, and, still looking at him, began to play. The melody, strange,
untaught, artless as the song of a wood-bird, was infinitely sorrowful and full of longing.
Her very life seemed to breathe through the music in fathomless yearning. Cecil understood
the plea, and the tears rushed unbidden into his eyes. All his heart went out to her in pitying
tenderness and love; and yet he dared not trust himself to speak.

"Promise to come back," said the music, while her dark eyes met his; "promise to come back.
You are my one friend, my light, my all; do not leave me to perish in the dark. I shall die
without you, I shall die, I shall die!"

Could any man resist the appeal? Could Cecil, of all men, thrilling through all his sensitive
and ardent nature to the music, thrilling still more to a mighty and resistless love?

"I will come back," he said, and parted from her; he dared not trust himself to say another
word. But the parting was not so abrupt as to prevent his seeing the swift breaking-forth of
light upon the melancholy face that was becoming so beautiful to him and so dear.

CHAPTER VI.

THE TWILIGHT TALE.

                 That eve I spoke those words again,
                 And then she hearkened what I said.

                                     DANTE ROSSETTI.

The next day the Indians had a great hunt. A circle of men on foot and on horseback was drawn
around a large tract of forest on the western side of the Willamette River. Gradually, with
much shouting, hallooing, and beating of bushes, the circle closed upon the game within it,
like the folds of a mighty serpent.

There was a prodigious slaughter, a mad scene of butchery, in which the Indians exulted like
fiends. Late in the afternoon they returned to camp, stained with blood and loaded with the
spoils of the chase. Snoqualmie distinguished himself by killing a large bear, and its claws,
newly severed and bleeding, were added to his already ample necklace of similar trophies.

Cecil remained in the almost deserted camp. He tried in vain to talk with the few chiefs who
had not gone out to join in the hunt. Missionary work was utterly impossible that day. Wallulah
and the problem of his love filled his thoughts. His mind, aroused and burning, searched and
analyzed the question upon every side.

Should he tell Multnomah of Snoqualmie's cruelty, representing his unfitness to be the husband
of the gentle Wallulah?

To the stern war-chief that very cruelty would be an argument in Snoqualmie's favor. Should
he himself become a suitor for her hand? He knew full well that Multnomah would reject him
with disdain; or, were he to consent, it would involve the Willamettes in a war with the haughty
and vindictive Cayuse. Finally, should he attempt to fly with her to some other land? Impossible.
All the tribes of the northwest were held in the iron grip of Multnomah. They could never escape;
and even if they could, the good he had done among the Indians, the good he hoped would grow
from generation to generation, would be all destroyed if it were told among them that he who
claimed to come to them with a message from God had ended by stealing the chief's daughter.
And had he a right to love any one?--had he a right to love at all? God had sent him to do
a work among the Indians; was it not wicked for him to so much as look either to the right
or to the left till that work was done?

Amid this maze of perplexities, his tense, agonized soul sought in vain for some solution,
some conclusion. At times he sat in his lodge and brooded over these things till he seemed
wrought up almost to madness, till his form trembled with excitement, and the old pain at his
heart grew sharp and deadly.

Then again, trying to shake it off, he went out among the few Indians who were left in the
camp and attempted to do missionary work; but enthusiasm was lacking, the glow and tenderness
was gone from his words, the grand devotion that had inspired him so long failed him at last.
He was no longer a saintly apostle to the Indians; he was only a human lover, torn by stormy
human doubts and fears.

Even the Indians felt that some intangible change had come over him, and as they listened their
hearts no longer responded to his eloquence; they felt somehow that the life was gone from
his words. He saw it too, and it gave him a keen pang.

He realized that the energy and concentration of his character was gone, that a girl's beauty
had drawn him aside from the mission on which God had sent him.

"I will go and see her. I will, without letting her know that I love her, give her to understand
my position and her own. She shall see how impossible it is for us ever to be aught to each
other. And I shall urge her to cling to God and walk in the path he has appointed for her,
while I go on in mine."

So thinking, he left his lodge that evening and took the path to Wallulah's home.

Some distance from the encampment he met an Indian funeral procession. The young Willamette
runner had died that morning, and now they were bearing him to the river, down which a canoe
was to waft the body and the mourners to the nearest mimaluse island. The corpse was swathed
in skins and tied around with thongs; the father bore it on his shoulder, for the dead had
been but a slender lad. Behind them came the mother and a few Indian women. As they passed,
the father chanted a rude lament.

"Oh, Mox-mox, my son, why did you go away and leave our wigwam empty? You were not weak nor
sickly, and your life was young. Why did you go? Oh, Mox-mox, dead, dead, dead!"

Then the women took up the doleful refrain,--

"Oh, Mox-mox, dead, dead, dead!"

Then the old man again,--

"Oh, Mox-mox, the sun was warm and food was plenty, yet you went away; and when we reach out
for you, you are not there. Oh Mox-mox, dead, dead, dead!"

Then the women again,--

"Oh, Mox-mox, dead, dead, dead!"

And so it went on, till they were embarked and the canoe bore them from sight and hearing.
Down on some mimaluse island or rocky point, they would stretch the corpse out in a canoe,
with the bow and arrows and fishing spear used in life beside it; then turn over it another
canoe like a cover, and so leave the dead to his long sleep.

The sight gave an added bitterness to Cecil's meditations.

"After all," he thought, "life is so short,--a shadow fleeting onward to the night,--and love
is so sweet! Why not open my heart to the bliss it brings? The black ending comes so soon!
Why not fling all thought of consequences to the winds, and gather into my arms the love that
is offered me? why not know its warmth and thrill for one golden moment, even though that moment
ends in death?"

The blood rushed wildly through his veins, but he resolutely put down the temptation. No, he
would be faithful, he would not allow himself even to think of such a thing.

Reluctantly, as before, the sentinels made way for him and he went on through the wood to the
trysting-place, for such it had come to be. She was waiting. But there was no longer the glad
illumination of face, the glad springing forward to meet him. She advanced shyly, a delicate
color in her cheek, a tremulous grace in her manner, that he had not observed before; the consciousness
of love had come to her and made her a woman. Never had she seemed so fair to Cecil; yet his
resolution did not falter.

"I have come, you see,--come to tell you that I can come no more, and to talk with you about
your future."

Her face grew very pale.

"Are you going away?" she asked sorrowfully, "and shall I never see you again?"

"I cannot come back," he replied gently. The sight of her suffering cut him to the heart.

"It has been much to see you," he continued, while she stood before him, looking downward,
without reply. "It has been like meeting one of my own people. I shall never forget you."

She raised her head and strove to answer, but the words died on her lips. How he loathed himself,
talking so smoothly to her while he hungered to take her in his arms and tell her how he loved her!

Again he spoke.

"I hope you will be happy with Snoqualmie, and--"

She lifted her eyes with a sudden light flashing in their black depths.

"Do you want me to hate him? Never speak his name to me again!"

"He is to be your husband; nay, it is the wish of your father, and the great sachems approve it."

"Can the sachems put love in my heart? Can the sachems make my heart receive him as its lord?
Ah, this bitter custom of the father giving his daughter to whomsoever he will, as if she were
a dog! And your lips sanction it!"

Her eyes were full of tears. Scarcely realizing what he did, he tried to take her hand. The
slender fingers shrank from his and were drawn away.

"I do not sanction it, it is a bitter custom; but it is to be, and I only wished to smooth
your pathway. I want to say or do something that will help you when I am gone."

"Do you know what it would be for me to be an Indian's wife? To cut the wood, and carry the
water, and prepare the food,--that would be sweet to do for one I loved. But to toil amid dirt
and filth for a savage whom I could only abhor, to feel myself growing coarse and squalid with
my surroundings,--I could not live!"

She shuddered as she spoke, as if the very thought was horrible.

"You hate this degraded Indian life as much as I do, and yet it is the life you would push
me into," she continued, in a tone of mournful heart-broken reproach. It stung him keenly.

"It is not the life I would push you into. God knows I would give my life to take one thorn
from yours," The mad longing within him rushed into his voice in spite of himself, making it
thrill with a passionate tenderness that brought the color back into her pallid cheek. "But
I cannot remain," he went on, "I dare not; all that I can do is to say something that may help
you in the future."

She looked at him with dilated eyes full of pain and bewilderment.

"I have no future if you go away. Why must you go? What will be left me after you are gone?
Think how long I was here alone after my mother died, with no one to understand me, no one
to talk to. Then you came, and I was happy. It was like light shining in the darkness; now
it goes out and I can never hope again. Why must you go away and leave Wallulah in the dark?"

There was a childlike plaintiveness and simplicity in her tone; and she came close to him,
looking up in his face with wistful, pleading eyes, the beautiful face wan and drawn with bewilderment
and pain, yet never so beautiful as now.

Cecil felt the unspeakable cruelty of his attitude toward her, and his face grew white as death
in an awful struggle between love and duty. But he felt that he must leave her or be disloyal
to his God.

"I do not wish to go away. But God has called me to a great work, and I must do it. I dare
not turn aside. You cannot know how dear your presence is to me, or how bitter it is for me
to part from you. But our parting must be, else the work I have done among the tribes will
be scattered to the winds and the curse of God will be on me as a false and fallen prophet."

He spoke with a kind of fierceness, striving blindly to battle down the mad longing within,
and his tones had a harshness that he was too agitated to notice. She drew back involuntarily.
There came into her face a dignity he had never seen before. She was but a recluse and a girl,
but she was of royal lineage by right of both her parents, and his words had roused a spirit
worthy the daughter of Multnomah.

"Am I a weight on you? Are you afraid I will bring a curse upon you? Do not fear, I shall no
longer ask you to stay. Wallulah shall take herself out of your life."

She gave him a look full of despair, as if seeing all hope go from her forever; then she said
simply, "Farewell," and turned away.

But in spite of her dignity there was an anguish written on her sweet pale face that he could
not resist. All his strength of resolve, all his conviction of duty, crumbled into dust as
she turned away; and he was conscious only that he loved her, that he could not let her go.

How it happened he never knew, but she was clasped in his arms, his kisses were falling on
brow and cheek in a passionate outburst that could be kept back no longer. At first, she trembled
in his arms and shrank away from him; then she nestled close, as if sheltering herself in the
love that was hers at last. After awhile she lifted a face over which a shadow of pain yet
lingered.

"But you said I would bring you a curse; you feared--"

He stopped her with a caress.

"Even curses would be sweet if they came through you. Forget what I said, remember only that
I love you!"

And she was content.

Around them the twilight darkened into night; the hours came and went unheeded by these two,
wrapped in that golden love-dream which for a moment brings Eden back again to this gray old
earth, all desolate as it is with centuries of woe and tears.

But while they talked there was on him a vague dread, an indefinable misgiving, a feeling that
he was disloyal to his mission, disloyal to her; that their love could have but one ending,
and that a dark one.

Still he strove hard to forget everything, to shut out all the world,--drinking to the full
the bliss of the present, blinding his eyes to the pain of the future.

But after they parted, when her presence was withdrawn and he was alone, he felt like a man
faithless and dishonored; like a prophet who had bartered the salvation of the people to whom
he had been sent, in exchange for a woman's kisses, which could bring him only disgrace and death.

As he went back to the camp in the stillness of midnight, he was startled by a distant roar,
and saw through the tree-tops flames bursting from the far-off crater of Mount Hood. The volcano
was beginning one of its periodical outbursts. But to Cecil's mind, imbued with the gloomy
supernaturalism of early New England, and unconsciously to himself, tinged in later years with
the superstition of the Indians among whom he had lived so long, that ominous roar, those flames
leaping up into the black skies of night, seemed a sign of the wrath of God.

CHAPTER VII.

ORATOR AGAINST ORATOR.

    The gravity, fixed attention, and decorum of these sons of the
    forest was calculated to make for them a most favorable
    impression.--GRAY: History of Oregon.

The next day all the Indians were gathered around the council grove. Multnomah presided, and
every sachem was in his place.

There was to be a trial of eloquence,--a tourney of orators, to see which tribe had the best.
Only one, the most eloquent of each tribe, was to speak; and Multnomah was to decide who was
victor. The mother of Wallulah had introduced the custom, and it had become popular among the
Indians.

Cecil was in his place among the chiefs, with worn face and abstracted air; Snoqualmie was
present, with hawk-like glance and imperious mien; there was Mishlah, with his sullen and brutal
features; there, too, wrapped closely in his robe of fur, sat Tohomish, brooding, gloomy,--the
wild empire's mightiest master of eloquence, and yet the most repulsive figure of them all.

The Indians were strangely quiet that morning; the hush of a superstitious awe was upon them.
The smoking mountains, Hood and Adams as the white man calls them, Au-poo-tah and Au-ka-ken
in the Indian tongue, were becoming active of late. The previous night flame had been seen
bursting from the top of Mount Hood and thick black smoke still puffed upward from it, and
on Mount Adams rested a heavy cloud of volcanic vapors. Were the mountains angry? Aged men
told how in the old time there had been a terrible outburst of flame and ashes from Mount Hood;
a rain of fire and stones had fallen over all the Willamette valley; the very earth had trembled
at the great mountain's wrath.

As the lower animals feel in the air the signs of a coming storm, so these savages felt, by
some kindred intuition, that a mysterious convulsion of Nature was at hand. They talked in
low tones, they were subdued in manner; any one coming suddenly upon them would have been impressed
by the air of uneasiness and apprehension that everywhere prevailed. But the chiefs were stoical,
and Multnomah impassive as ever.

Could it have been that the stormy influences at work in Nature lent energy to the orators
that day? They were unusually animated, at least for Indians, though a white man would have
found them intolerably bombastic. Each speech was a boastful eulogy of the speaker's tribe,
and an exaggerated account of the wonderful exploits of its warriors.

This was rather dangerous ground; for all the tribes had been at enmity in days gone by, and
some of their most renowned victories had been won over each other. Every one took it in good
part, however, except Mishlah. When We-math, chief of the Klamaths, recounting the exploits
of his race, told how in ancient times they had lorded it over the Mollalies, Mishlah glared
at him as if tempted to leap upon him and strike him down. Fortunately the orator passed on
to other things, and the wrath of the Mollalie chief gradually cooled.

Then came Cecil. It was a grand opening. He could speak of his own people, of their ancient
savagery and present splendor, and show how the gospel of love and justice had been the cause
of their elevation. Then would come the appeal to the Indians to accept this faith as their
own and share in its uplifting power. It was a magnificent opportunity, the opportunity of
a life-time.

But the mental conflict he had just passed through had rent his mind like a volcanic upheaval.
It possessed no longer the intense concentration which had been the source of its strength.
Tenderness, benevolence, missionary zeal, were still there, but no longer sovereign. Other
passions divided his heart; a hopeless and burning love consumed his being.

He spoke, but the fire was gone from his delivery and the vividness from his imagination. His
eloquence was not what it had been; his heart was no longer in his work, and his oration was
a failure.

Even the Indians noticed that something was lacking in his oratory, and it no longer moved
them as it had done. Cecil realized it, and strove to speak with more energy, but in vain;
he could not arouse himself; and it was with a consciousness of failure that he brought his
speech to a close and resumed his seat.

To a man of his morbid conscientiousness only one conclusion was possible.

"God sent me to proclaim salvation to these children of darkness," he thought, "and I have
turned aside to fill my heart with a woman's love. His wrath is on me. He has taken his spirit
from me. I am a thing rejected and accursed, and this people will go down to death because
I have failed in my mission."

While he sat absorbed in these bitter, self-accusing thoughts, the speaking went on. Wau-ca-cus
the Klickitat made a strong "talk," picturesque in Indian metaphor, full of energy. But the
chief that followed surpassed him. Orator caught fire from orator; thoughts not unworthy a
civilized audience were struck out by the intensity of the emulation; speakers rose to heights
which they had never reached before, which they were destined never to reach again. In listening
to and admiring their champions, the tribes forgot the smoking mountains and the feeling of
apprehension that had oppressed them. At length Snoqualmie made a speech breathing his own
daring spirit in every word. It went immeasurably beyond the others; it was the climax of all
the darkly splendid eloquence of the day.

No, not of all. From his place among the chiefs rose a small and emaciated figure; the blanket
that had muffled his face was thrown aside, and the tribes looked on the mis-shapen and degraded
features of Tohomish the Pine Voice. He stood silent at first, his eyes bent on the ground,
like a man in a trance. For a moment the spectators forgot the wonderful eloquence of the man
in his ignoble appearance. What could he do against Wau-ca-cus the Klickitat and Snoqualmie
the Cayuse, whose sonorous utterances still rang in their ears, whose majestic presence still
filled their minds!

"The Willamettes are beaten at last,--the Willamette speakers can no more be called the best,"
was the one exultant thought of the allies, and the Willamettes trembled for the fame of their
orators. Back in the shadow of the cottonwoods, an old Willamette warrior put an arrow on the
string and bent his bow unseen on Tohomish.

"He cannot beat them, and it shall never be said that Tohomish failed," he muttered. At that
moment, even as death hung over him, the orator's voice was heard beginning his "talk;" and
the warrior's hand fell, the bent bow was relaxed, the arrow dropped from the string. For with
the first accents of that soft and lingering voice the tribes were thrilled as with the beginning
of music.

The orator's head was still bent down, his manner abstracted; he spoke of the legends and the
glories of the Willamette tribe, but spoke of them as if that tribe belonged to the past, as
if it had perished from the earth, and he was telling the tale of a great dead race. His tones
were melodious but indescribably mournful. When at length he lifted his face, his eyes shone
with a misty light, and his brutal features were illuminated with a weird enthusiasm. A shudder
went through the vast and motley assembly. No boastful rant was this, but a majestic story
of the past, the story of a nation gone forever. It was the death-song of the Willamettes,
solemnly rendered by the last and greatest orator of the race.

At length he spoke of Multnomah and of the power of the confederacy in his time, but spoke
of it as of old time, seen dimly through the lapse of years. Then, when as it seemed he was
about to go on and tell how this power came to fall, he hesitated; the words faltered on his
lips; he suddenly broke off, took his seat, and drew his robe again over his face.

The effect was indescribable. The portentous nature of the whole speech needed only that last
touch of mystery. It sent through every heart a wild and awesome thrill, as at the shadow of
approaching destiny.

The multitude were silent; the spell of the prophet's lofty and mournful eloquence still lingered
over them. Multnomah rose. With him rested the decision as to who was the greatest orator.
But the proud old war-chief knew that all felt that Tohomish had far surpassed his competitors,
and he was resolved that not his lips but the voice of the tribes should proclaim their choice.

"Multnomah was to decide who has spoken best, but he leaves the decision with you. You have
heard them all. Declare who is the greatest, and your word shall be Multnomah's word."

There was an instant's silence; then in a murmur like the rush of the sea came back the voice
of the multitude.

"Tohomish! Tohomish! he is greatest!"

"He is greatest," said Multnomah. But Tohomish, sitting there dejectedly, seemed neither to
see nor hear.

"To-morrow," said the war-chief, "while the sun is new, the chiefs will meet in council and
the great talk shall be ended. And after it ends, Multnomah's daughter will be given to Snoqualmie,
and Multnomah will bestow a rich potlatch [a giving of gifts] on the people. And then all will
be done."

The gathering broke up. Gradually, as the Indians gazed on the smoking mountains, the excitement
produced by the oratory they had just heard wore off. Only Tohomish's sombre eloquence, so
darkly in unison with the menacing aspect of Nature, yet lingered in every mind. They were
frightened and startled, apprehensive of something to come. Legends, superstitious lore of
by-gone time connected with the "smoking mountains," were repeated that afternoon wherever
little groups of Indians had met together. Through all these gathered tribes ran a dread yet
indefinable whisper of apprehension, like the first low rustle of the leaves that foreruns
the coming storm.

Over the valley Mount Adams towered, wrapped in dusky cloud; and from Mount Hood streamed intermittent
bursts of smoke and gleams of fire that grew plainer as the twilight fell. Louder, as the hush
of evening deepened, came the sullen roar from the crater of Mount Hood. Below the crater,
the ice-fields that had glistened in unbroken whiteness the previous day were now furrowed
with wide black streaks, from which the vapor of melting snow and burning lava ascended in
dense wreaths. Men wiser than these ignorant savages would have said that some terrible convulsion
was at hand.

Multnomah's announcement in the council was a dreadful blow to Cecil, though he had expected
it. His first thought was of a personal appeal to the chief, but one glance at the iron features
of the autocrat told him that it would be a hopeless undertaking. No appeal could turn Multnomah
from his purpose. For Cecil, such an undertaking might be death; it certainly would be contemptuous
refusal, and would call down on Wallulah the terrible wrath before which the bravest sachem
quailed.

Cecil left the grove with the other chiefs and found his way to his lodge. There he flung himself
down on his face upon his couch of furs. The Indian woman, his old nurse, who still clung to
him, was absent, and for some time he was alone. After a while the flap that hung over the
entrance was lifted, and some one came in with the noiseless tread of the Indian. Cecil, lying
in a maze of bitter thought, became aware of the presence of another, and raised his head.
The Shoshone renegade stood beside him. His gaze rested compassionately on Cecil's sad, worn face.

"What is it?" he asked. "Your words were slow and heavy to-day. There was a weight on your
spirit; what is it? You said that we were friends, so I came to ask if I could help."

"You are good, and like a brother," replied Cecil, gently, "but I cannot tell you my trouble.
Yet this much I can tell,"--and he sat upon the couch, his whole frame trembling with excitement.
"I have sinned a grievous sin, therefore the Great Spirit took away the words from my lips
to-day. My heart has become evil, and God has punished me."

It was a relief to his over-burdened conscience to say those harsh things of himself, yet the
relief was bitter. Over the bronzed face of the Indian came an expression of deep pity.

"The white man tears himself with his own claws like a wounded beast, but it does not give
him peace. Has he done evil? Then let him remember what he has so often told the Indians: 'Forsake
evil, turn from sin, and the Great Spirit will forgive.' Let my white brother do this, and
it will be well with him."

He gazed at Cecil an instant longer; then, with a forbearance that more civilized men do not
always show, he left the lodge without another word.

But what he said had its effect. Through Cecil's veins leaped the impulse of a sudden resolve,--a
resolve that was both triumph and agony. He fell on his knees beside the couch.

"Thou hast shown me my duty by the lips of the Indian, and I will perform it. I will tear this
forbidden love from my heart. Father, help me. Once before I resolved to do this and failed.
Help me that I fail not now. Give me strength. Give me the mastery over the flesh, O God! Help
me to put this temptation from me. Help me to fulfil my mission."

The struggle was long and doubtful, but the victory was won at last. When Cecil arose from
his knees, there was the same set and resolute look upon his face that was there the morning
he entered the wilderness, leaving friends and home behind him forever,--the look that some
martyr of old might have worn, putting from him the clinging arms of wife or child, going forth
to the dungeon and the stake.

"It is done," murmured the white lips. "I have put her from me. My mission to the Indians alone
fills my heart. But God help her! God help her!"

For the hardest part of it all was that he sacrificed her as well as himself.

"It must be," he thought; "I must give her up. I will go now and tell her; then I will never
look upon her face again. But oh! what will become of her?"

And his long fingers were clinched as in acutest pain. But his sensitive nerves, his intense
susceptibilities were held in abeyance by a will that, once roused, was strong even unto death.

He went out. It was dark. Away to the east Mount Hood lifted its blazing crater into the heavens
like a gigantic torch, and the roar of the eruption came deep and hoarse through the stillness
of night. Once, twice it seemed to Cecil that the ground trembled slightly under his feet.
The Indians were huddled in groups watching the burning crest of the volcano. As the far-off
flickering light fell on their faces, it showed them to be full of abject fear.

"It is like the end of the world," thought Cecil. "Would that it were; then she and I might
die together."

He left the camp and took the trail through the wood to the trysting-place; for, late as it
was, he knew that she awaited him.

CHAPTER VIII.

IN THE DARK.

             There is not one upon life's weariest way,
             Who is weary as I am weary of all but death.

                                               SWINBURNE.

The grim sentinels by the pathway, who had been so reluctant to let Cecil pass the day before,
were still more reluctant this evening. One of them planted himself in the trail directly in
front of Cecil, and did not offer to let him go on, but stood sullenly blocking the way. Cecil
touched the warrior's arm and bade him stand aside. For an instant it seemed that he would
refuse, but his superstitious respect for the white tomanowos overcame his obstinacy,--and
he stepped unwillingly back.

But as Cecil went on he felt, and felt rightly, that they would not let him pass again,--that
the last act, be it what it might, in his love drama, was drawing to a close.

A few moments' walk, and he saw in the dark the little figure awaiting him under the trees.
She came slowly forward to meet him. He saw that her face was very pale, her eyes large and
full of woe. She gave him her hands; they felt like ice. He bent over her and kissed her with
quivering lips.

"Poor child," he said, putting his arms around her slender form and drawing it close in his
embrace, "how can I ever tell you what I have to tell you to-night!"

She did not respond to his caress. At length, looking up in a lifeless, stricken way, she spoke
in a mechanical voice, a voice that did not sound like her own,--

"I know it already. My father came and told me that to-morrow I must--" She shuddered; her
voice broke; then she threw her arms around his neck and clung to him passionately. "But they
can never tear me away from you; never, never!"

How could he tell her that he came to put her away from him, that he came to bid her farewell?
He clasped her the tighter in his arms. For an instant his mind swept all the chances of flight
with her, only to realize their utter hopelessness; then he remembered that even to think of
such a thing was treachery to the resolves he had just made. He shook from head to foot with
stormy emotion.

She lifted her head from his breast, where it was pillowed. Asclepigenia will perhaps his Demiurge and his mysterious Paradigm
that you understand and possess, but its skies, the planets and stars are mine since few months.

PROCLEAN
.-- What word did you say?

EUMORFO Asclepigenia philosophy .-- I said to you, that does not want
you ever wanted to endanger; but to me there is no danger that meet.

PROCLEAN .-- By the gods above and below, which come from one long series, I confess it hurts
me so just discovered.

However, everything is explained satisfactorily in my system.

Things are as they are, and can not be better than they are because, as they are, are perfect
according to their degree.

EUMORFO .-- Take comfort in that twister.

PROCLEAN .-- And why not comfort me? Asclepigenia and I, with the free will of our souls were
ready to love, and we love and loving go on and on forever, with the help of divine favor, that
comes to us by virtue of prayer. Against this, nothing can you, nothing may your peers. There
are, nevertheless, in the outpouring of the soul's powers, some body
that is subject to fate.

This is what I'm in Asclepigenia. I Fate he steals. The free will of it has not been quite spirited
to defend heroically.

But the discord between free will and fate is finally dominated by
Providence which will purify all, reducing it to the heavenly and
wonderful harmony which almost touches and confused with the One hiperhipostático.

EUMORFO

.-- Your speech sounds as a stranger in my profane ears, which leads
me to believe or If you are a marvel of semi-divine wisdom, or you're
stark raving mad.

SCENE VI.

SUCH, MARINO.

MARINO .-- A respectable old man asked
permission to come to talk.

But he held her close, almost crushing the delicate form against his breast. She felt his heart
beat deeply and painfully against her own, and in some way it came to her that every throb
was agony, that he was in the extremity of mental and physical suffering.

"God help me!" he said; "how can I give you up?"

She realized by woman's intuition that his whole soul was wrung with pain, with an agony darker
and bitterer than her own; and the exceeding greatness of his suffering gave her strength.
A sudden revulsion of feeling affected her. She looked up at him with infinite tenderness.

"I wish I could take all the pain away from you and bear it myself."

"It is God's will; we must submit to it."

"His will!" Her voice was full of rebellion. "Why does he give us such bitter suffering? Doesn't
he care? I thought once that God was good, but it is all dark now."

"Hush, you must not think so. After all, it will be only a little while till we meet in heaven,
and there no one can take you from me."

"Heaven is so far off. The present is all that I can see, and it is as black as death. Death!
it would be sweet to die now with your arms around me; but to live year after year with him!
How can I go to him, now that I have known you? How can I bear his presence, his touch?"

She shuddered there in Cecil's arms. All her being shrunk in repugnance at the thought of Snoqualmie.

"Thank God for death!" said Cecil, brokenly.

"It is so long to wait," she murmured, "and I am so young and strong."

His kisses fell on cheek and brow. She drew down his head and put her cheek against his and
clung to him as if she would never let him go.

It was a strange scene, the mournful parting of the lovers in the gloom of the forest and the
night. To the east, through the black net-work of leaves and branches, a dull red glow marked
the crater of Mount Hood, and its intermittent roar came to them through the silence. It was
a night of mystery and horror,--a fitting night for their tragedy of love and woe. The gloom
and terror of their surroundings seemed to throw a supernatural shadow over their farewell.

"The burning mountain is angry to-night," said Wallulah, at last. "Would that it might cover
us up with its ashes and stones, as the Indians say it once did two lovers back in the old time."

"Alas, death never comes to those who wish for it. When the grace and sweetness are all fled
from our lives, and we would be glad to lie down in the grave and be at rest, then it is that
we must go on living. Now I must go. The longer we delay our parting the harder it will be."

"Not yet, not yet!" cried Wallulah. "Think how long I must be alone,--always alone until I die."

"God help us!" said Cecil, setting his teeth. "I will dash my mission to the winds and fly
with you. What if God does forsake us, and our souls are lost! I would rather be in the outer
darkness with you than in heaven without you."

His resolution had given way at last. But in such cases, is it not always the woman that is
strongest?

"No," she said, "you told me that your God would forsake you if you did. It must not be."

She withdrew herself from his arms and stood looking at him. He saw in the moonlight that her
pale tear-stained face had upon it a sorrowful resignation, a mournful strength, born of very
hopelessness.

"God keep you, Wallulah!" murmured Cecil, brokenly. "If I could only feel that he would shelter
and shield you!"

"That may be as it will," replied the sweet, patient lips. "I do not know. I shut my eyes to
the future. I only want to take myself away from you, so that your God will not be angry with
you. Up there," she said, pointing, "I will meet you sometime and be with you forever. God
will not be angry then. Now farewell."

He advanced with outstretched arms. She motioned him back.

"It will make it harder," she said.

For a moment she looked into his eyes, her own dark, dilated, full of love and sadness; for
a moment all that was within him thrilled to the passionate, yearning tenderness of her gaze;
then she turned and went away without a word.

He could not bear to see her go, and yet he knew it must end thus; he dared not follow her
or call her back. But so intense was his desire for her to return, so vehemently did his life
cry out after her, that for an instant it seemed to him he had called out, "Come back! come
back!" The cry rose to his lips; but he set his teeth and held it back. They must part; was
it not God's will? The old pain at his heart returned, a faintness was on him, and he reeled
to the ground.

Could it be that her spirit felt that unuttered cry, and that it brought her back? Be this
as it may, while he was recovering from his deadly swoon he dimly felt her presence beside
him, and the soft cool touch of her fingers on his brow. Then--or did he imagine it?--her lips,
cold as those of the dead, touched his own. But when consciousness entirely returned, he was
alone in the forest.

Blind, dizzy, staggering with weakness, he found his way to the camp. Suddenly, as he drew
near it he felt the earth sway and move beneath him like a living thing. He caught hold of
a tree to escape being thrown to the ground. There came an awful burst of flame from Mount
Hood. Burning cinders and scoria lit up the eastern horizon like a fountain of fire. Then down
from the great canyon of the Columbia, from the heart of the Cascade Range, broke a mighty
thundering sound, as if half a mountain had fallen. Drowning for a moment the roar of the volcano,
the deep echo rolled from crag to crag, from hill to hill. A wild chorus of outcries rang from
the startled camp,--the fierce, wild cry of many tribes mad with fear yet breathing forth tremulous
defiance, the cry of human dread mingling with the last echoes of that mysterious crash.

CHAPTER IX.

QUESTIONING THE DEAD.

         Then he said: "Cold lips and breast without breath,
         Is there no voice, no language of death?"

                                               EDWIN ARNOLD.

While Cecil was on his way that evening to seek Wallulah, a canoe with but a single occupant
was dropping down the Columbia toward one of the many mimaluse, or death-islands, that are
washed by its waters.

An Indian is always stealthy, but there was an almost more than Indian stealthiness about this
canoe-man's movements. Noiselessly, as the twilight deepened into darkness, the canoe glided
out of a secluded cove not far from the camp; noiselessly the paddle dipped into the water,
and the canoe passed like a shadow into the night.

On the rocky mimaluse island, some distance below the mouth of the Willamette, the Indian landed
and drew his boat up on the beach. He looked around for a moment, glanced at the red glow that
lit the far-off crest of Mount Hood, then turned and went up the pathway to the ancient burial hut.

Who was it that had dared to visit the island of the dead after dark? The bravest warriors
were not capable of such temerity. Old men told how, away back in the past, some braves had
ventured upon the island after nightfall, and had paid the awful forfeit. They were struck
by unseen hands. Weapons that had lain for years beside the decaying corpses of forgotten warriors
wounded them in the dark. Fleeing to their canoes in swiftest fear, they found the shadowy
pursuit was swifter still, and were overtaken and struck down, while the whole island rung
with mocking laughter. One only escaped, plunging all torn and bruised into the river and swimming
to the farther shore. When he looked back, the island was covered with moving lights, and the
shrill echo of fiendish mirth came to him across the water. His companions were never seen
again. A little while afterward the dogs barked all night around his lodge, and in the morning
he was found lying dead upon his couch, his face ghastly and drawn with fear, as if at some
frightful apparition.

"He disturbed the mimaluse tillicums [dead people], and they came for him," said the old medicine
men, as they looked at him.

Since then, no one had been on the island except in the daytime. Little bands of mourners had
brought hither the swathed bodies of their dead, laid them in the burial hut, lifted the wail
over them, and left upon the first approach of evening.

Who, then, was this,--the first for generations to set foot on the mimaluse illahee after dark?

It could be but one, the only one among all the tribes who would have dared to come, and to
come alone,--Multnomah, the war-chief, who knew not what it was to fear the living or the dead.

Startled by the outburst of the great smoking mountains, which always presaged woe to the Willamettes,
perplexed by Tohomish's mysterious hints of some impending calamity, weighed down by a dread
presentiment, he came that night on a strange and superstitious errand.

On the upper part of the island, above reach of high water, the burial hut loomed dark and
still in the moonlight as the chief approached it.

Some of the Willamettes, like the Chinooks, practised canoe burial, but the greater part laid
their dead in huts, as did also the Klickitats and the Cascades.

The war-chief entered the hut. The rude boards that covered the roof were broken and decayed.
The moonlight shone through many openings, lighting up the interior with a dim and ghostly
radiance. There, swathed in crumbling cerements, ghastly in shrunken flesh and protruding bone,
lay the dead of the line of Multnomah,--the chiefs of the blood royal who had ruled the Willamettes
for many generations. The giant bones of warriors rested beside the more delicate skeletons
of their women, or the skeletons, slenderer still, of little children of the ancient race.
The warrior's bow lay beside him with rotting string; the child's playthings were still clasped
in fleshless fingers; beside the squaw's skull the ear-pendants of hiagua shells lay where
they had fallen from the crumbling flesh years before.

Near the door, and where the slanting moonbeams fell full upon it, was the last who had been
borne to the death hut, the mother of Wallulah. Six years before Multnomah had brought her
body,--brought it alone, with no eye to behold his grief; and since then no human tread had
disturbed the royal burial-place.

He came now and looked down upon the body. It had been tightly swathed, fold upon fold, in
some oriental fabric; and the wrappings, stiffened by time still showed what had once been
a rare symmetry of form. The face was covered with a linen cloth, yellow now through age and
fitting like a mask to the features. The chief knelt down and drew away the face-cloth. 

The context of the entire narrative of this report will undoubtedly persuaded you that the media
only to advance the province and take their natural ignorance, misery and despondency where are the
communities extinguished, leaving the Indians in full freedom that each one works for their own
profit, trading the fruits and effects of their work and industry, and that in all live and be
treated like other subjects of the King. Withered as her features were,
there was a delicate beauty in them still,--in the graceful brow, the regular profile, the
exquisitely chiselled chin. Around the shoulders and the small shapely head her hair had grown
in rich luxuriant masses.

The chief gazed long on the shrunken yet beautiful face. His iron features grew soft, as none
but Wallulah had ever seen them grow. He touched gently the hair of his dead wife, and put
it back from her brow with a wistful, caressing tenderness. He had never understood her; she
had always been a mystery to him; the harsh savagery of his nature had never been able to enter
into or comprehend the refined grace of hers; but he had loved her with all the fierce, tenacious,
secretive power of his being, a power that neither time nor death could change. Now he spoke
to her, his low tones sounding weird in that house of the dead,--a strange place for words of love.

"My woman,--mine yet, for death itself cannot take from Multnomah that which is his own; my
bird that came from the sea and made its nest for a little while in the heart of Multnomah
and then flew away and left it empty,--I have been hungry to see you, to touch your hair and
look upon your face again. Now I am here, and it is sweet to be with you, but the heart of
Multnomah listens to hear you speak."

He still went on stroking her hair softly, reverently. It seemed the only caress of which he
was capable, but it had in it a stern and mournful tenderness.

"Speak to me! The dead talk to the tomanowos men and the dreamers. You are mine; talk to me;
I am in need. The shadow of something terrible to come is over the Willamette. The smoking
mountains are angry; the dreamers see only bad signs; there are black things before Multnomah,
and he cannot see what they are. Tell me,--the dead are wise and know that which comes,--what
is this unknown evil which threatens me and mine?"

He looked down at her with intense craving, intense desire, as if his imperious will could
reanimate that silent clay and force to the mute lips the words he so desired. But the still
lips moved not, and the face lay cold under his burning and commanding gaze. The chief leaned
closer over her; he called her name aloud,--something that the Willamette Indians rarely did,
for they believed that if the names of the dead were spoken, even in conversation, it would
bring them back; so they alluded to their lost ones only indirectly, and always reluctantly
and with fear.

"Come back!" said he, repeating the name he had not spoken for six years. "You are my own,
you are my woman. Hear me, speak to me, you whom I love; you who, living or dead, are still
the wife of Multnomah."

No expression flitted over the changeless calm of the face beneath him: no sound came back
to his straining ears except the low intermittent roar of the far-off volcano.

A sorrowful look crossed his face. As has been said, there was an indefinable something always
between them, which perhaps must ever be between those of diverse race. It had been the one
mystery that puzzled him while she was living, and it seemed to glide, viewless yet impenetrable,
between them now. He rose to his feet.

"It comes between us again," he thought, looking down at her mournfully. "It pushed me back
when she was living, and made me feel that I stood outside her heart even while my arms were
around her. It comes between us now and will not let her speak. If it was only something I
could see and grapple with!"

And the fierce warrior felt his blood kindle within him, that not only death but something
still more mysterious and incomprehensible should separate him from the one he loved. He turned
sadly away and passed on to the interior of the hut. As he gazed on the crumbling relics of
humanity around him, the wonted look of command came back to his brow. These should obey; by
iron strength of will and mystic charm he would sway them to his bidding. The withered lips
of death, or spirit voices, should tell him what he wished to know. Abjectly superstitious
as was the idea it involved, there was yet something grand in his savage despotic grasp after
power that, dominating all he knew of earth, sought to bend to his will even the spirit-land.

The chief believed that the departed could talk to him if they would; for did they not talk
to the medicine men and the dreamers? If so, why not to him, the great chief, the master of
all the tribes of the Wauna?

He knelt down, and began to sway his body back and forth after the manner of the Nootka shamans,
and to chant a long, low, monotonous song, in which the names of the dead who lay there were
repeated over and over again.

"Kamyah, Tlesco, Che-aqah, come back! come back and tell me the secret, the black secret, the
death secret, the woe that is to come. Winelah, Sic-mish, Tlaquatin, the land is dark with
signs and omens; the hearts of men are heavy with dread; the dreamers say that the end is come
for Multnomah and his race. Is it true? Come and tell me. I wait, I listen, I speak your names;
come back, come back!"

Tohomish himself would not have dared to repeat those names in the charnel hut, lest those
whom he invoked should spring upon him and tear him to pieces. No more potent or more perilous
charm was known to the Indians.

Ever as Multnomah chanted, the sullen roar of the volcano came like an undertone and filled
the pauses of the wild incantation. And as he went on, it seemed to the chief that the air
grew thick with ghostly presences. There was a sense of breathing life all around him. He felt
that others, many others, were with him; yet he saw nothing. When he paused for some voice,
some whisper of reply, this sense of hyper-physical perception became so acute that he could
almost see, almost hear, in the thick blackness and the silence; yet no answer came.

Again he resumed his mystic incantation, putting all the force of his nature into the effort,
until it seemed that even those shadowy things of the night must yield to his blended entreaty
and command. But there came no response. Thick and thronging the viewless presences seemed
to gather, to look, and to listen; but no reply came to his ears, and no sight met his eyes
save the swathed corpses and the white-gleaming bones on which the shifting moonbeams fell.

Multnomah rose to his feet, baffled, thwarted, all his soul glowing with anger that he should
be so scorned.

"Why is this?" said his stern voice in the silence. "You come, but you give no reply; you look,
you listen, but you make no sound. Answer me, you who know the future; tell me this secret!"

Still no response. Yet the air seemed full of dense, magnetic life, of muffled heart-beats,
of voiceless, unresponsive, uncommunicative forms that he could almost touch.

For perhaps the first time in his life the war-chief found himself set at naught. His form
grew erect; his eyes gleamed with the terrible wrath which the tribes dreaded as they dreaded
the wrath of the Great Spirit.

"Do you mock Multnomah? Am I not war-chief of the Willamettes? Though you dwell in shadow and
your bodies are dust, you are Willamettes, and I am still your chief. Give up your secret!
If the Great Spirit has sealed your lips so that you cannot speak, give me a sign that will
tell me. 

Since the owners of each village government by a secular administrator to take care temporality,
and two religious doctrine to the Indians, were administered sacraments and serve the direction
of their souls, divided command, before was one person who cared for the spiritual and temporal.
These men were elected and appointed officials as they found, most were very young men, and
without prudence or knowledge. The Indians, accustomed to obey only their priests, they looked at first
with indifference administrators as dictated to them, so that nothing was done without first the
father. These principles were born the great discord among priests and administrators, and
contributed largely to the ruin of nations, as Don Francisco Bruno complaint de Zavala in the
representation made to His Majesty the year 1774. The priests were homeowners major colleges named,
not allowing them to live in managers; did the same thing with the gardens and orchards, all
intended to provide at its discretion; and as the Indians were on their side getting as they pleased. Procurose
remedy these reckless claims of some religious orders of government, but not a step ahead of
it without causing the Indians many vexations and annoyances; because addicts always obey the religious,
not to influence them ceasing their maximum breach of peace, the rigor needed to use them to
hold them to the government.

Consiguiose at last made known to the Indians only in things pertaining
to salvation should pay careful heed to their priests, and the rest
to their managers, but not This cessation of discord between administrators
and priests, because as each other live in the same house and with
some dependency in office, never made up in their distributions.

The priests wanted the Indians attended every day at Mass and the rosary, when they wished, which was
often quite unexpectedly, administrators it prevented, sometimes rightly and sometimes without,
and what was that the priest was sent spank those who obeyed the administrator and the administrator
to those who obeyed the priest; and each other punishments were executed in the wretched Indians, no more
guilt to obey to better accommodate them to obey, even the magistrates and council members themselves
were not free of such abuses, which not infrequently were beaten and abused by priests and
administrators, not knowing which party snuggle. This persecution is not so much in the day,
and, although time and again experienced, not to fuss.
 Multnomah's countenance told nothing of the night
before, but almost all the rest showed something yet of superstitious fear. Mishlah's face
was haggard, his air startled and uneasy, like that of some forest animal that had been terribly
frightened; and even Snoqualmie looked worn. But the greatest change of all was in Tohomish.
His face was as ghastly as that of a corpse, and he came into the council walking in a dull
lifeless way, as if hardly aware of what he was doing. Those nearest to him shrank away, whispering
to one another that the seer looked like a dead man.

Cecil came last. The severe mental conflict of the past night had told almost fatally on a
frame already worn out by years of toil and sickness. His cheek was pale, his eye hollow, his
step slow and faltering like one whose flame of life is burning very low. The pain at his heart,
always worse in times of exhaustion, was sharp and piercing.

He looked agitated and restless; he had tried hard to give Wallulah into the hands of God and
feel that she was safe, but he could not. For himself he had no thought; but his whole soul
was wrung with pain for her. By virtue of his own keen sympathies, he anticipated and felt
all that the years had in store for her,--the loneliness, the heartache, the trying to care
for one she loathed; until he shrank from her desolate and hopeless future as if it had been
his own. All his soul went out to her in yearning tenderness, in passionate desire to shield
her and to take away her burden.

But his resolution never wavered. Below the ebb and flow of feeling, the decision to make their
separation final was as unchanging as granite. He could not bear to look upon her face again;
he could not bear to see her wedded to Snoqualmie. He intended to make one last appeal to the
Indians this morning to accept the gospel of peace; then he would leave the council before
Wallulah was brought to it. So he sat there now, waiting for the "talk" to begin.

The bands gathered around the grove were smaller than usual. Many had fled from the valley
at dawn to escape from the dreaded vicinity of the smoking mountains; many hundreds remained,
but they were awed and frightened. No war could have appalled them as they were appalled by
the shaking of the solid earth under their feet. All the abject, superstition of their natures
was roused. They looked like men who felt themselves caught in the grasp of some supernatural
power.

Multnomah opened the council by saying that two runners had arrived with news that morning;
the one from the sea-coast, the other from up the Columbia. They would come before the council
and tell the news they had brought.

The runner from the upper Columbia spoke first. He had come thirty miles since dawn. He seemed
unnerved and fearful, like one about to announce some unheard-of calamity. The most stoical
bent forward eagerly to hear.

"The Great Spirit has shaken the earth, and the Bridge of the Gods has fallen!"

There was the silence of amazement; then through the tribes passed in many tongues the wild
and wondering murmur, "The Bridge of the Gods has fallen! The Bridge of the Gods has fallen!"
With it, too, went the recollection of the ancient prophecy that when the Bridge fell the power
of the Willamettes would also fall. Now the Bridge was broken, and the dominion of the Willamettes
was broken forever with it. At another time the slumbering jealousy of the tribes would have
burst forth in terrific vengeance on the doomed race. But they were dejected and afraid. In
the fall of the Bridge they saw the hand of the Great Spirit, a visitation of God. And so Willamette
and tributary alike heard the news with fear and apprehension. Only Multnomah, who knew the
message before it was spoken, listened with his wonted composure.

"It is well," he said, with more than Indian duplicity; "the daughter of Multnomah is to become
the wife of Snoqualmie the Cayuse, and the new line that commences with their children will
give new chiefs to head the confederacy of the Wauna. The old gives way to the new. That is
the sign that the Great Spirit gives in the fall of the Bridge. Think you it means that the
war-strength is gone from us, that we shall no longer prevail in battle? No, no! who thinks it?"

The proud old sachem rose to his feet; his giant form towered over the multitude, and every
eye fell before the haughty and scornful glance that swept council and audience like a challenge
to battle.

"Is there a chief here that thinks it? Let him step out, let him grapple with Multnomah in
the death-grapple, and see. Is there a tribe that thinks it? We reach out our arms to them;
we are ready. Let them meet us in battle now, to-day, and know if our hearts have become the
hearts of women. Will you come? We will give you dark and bloody proof that our tomahawks are
still sharp and our arms are strong."

He stood with outstretched arms, from which the robe of fur had fallen back. A thrill of dread
went through the assembly at the grim defiance; then Snoqualmie spoke.

"The heart of all the tribes is as the heart of Multnomah. Let there be peace."

The chief resumed his seat. His force of will had wrung one last victory from fate itself.
Instantly, and with consummate address, Multnomah preoccupied the attention of the council
before anything could be said or done to impair the effect of his challenge. He bade the other
runner, the one from the sea-coast, deliver his message.

It was, in effect, this:--

A large canoe, with great white wings like a bird, had come gliding over the waters to the
coast near the mouth of the Wauna. Whence it came no one could tell; but its crew were pale
of skin like the great white shaman there in the council, and seemed of his race. Some of them
came ashore in a small canoe to trade with the Indians, but trouble rose between them and there
was a battle. The strangers slew many Indians with their magic, darting fire at them from long
black tubes. Then they escaped to the great canoe, which spread its wings and passed away from
sight into the sea. Many of the Indians were killed, but none of the pale-faced intruders.
Now the band who had suffered demanded that the white man of whom they had heard--the white
chief at the council--be put to death to pay the blood-debt.

All eyes turned on Cecil, and he felt that his hour was come. Weak, exhausted in body and mind,
wearied almost to death, a sudden and awful peril was on him. For a moment his heart sank,
his brain grew dizzy. How could he meet this emergency? All his soul went out to God with a
dumb prayer for help, with an overwhelming sense of weakness. Then he heard Multnomah speaking
to him in cold, hard tones.

"The white man has heard the words of the runner. What has he to say why his life should not
pay the blood-debt?"

Cecil rose to his feet. With one last effort he put Wallulah, himself, his mission, into the
hands of God; with one last effort he forced himself to speak.

Men of nervous temperament, like Cecil, can bring out of an exhausted body an energy, an outburst
of final and intense effort, of which those of stronger physique do not seem capable. But it
drains the remaining vital forces, and the reaction is terrible. Was it this flaming-up of
the almost burned-out embers of life that animated Cecil now? Or was it the Divine Strength
coming to him in answer to prayer? Be this as it may, when he opened his lips to speak, all
the power of his consecration came back; physical weakness and mental anxiety left him; he
felt that Wallulah was safe in the arms of the Infinite Compassion; he felt his love for the
Indians, his deep yearning to help them, to bring them to God, rekindling within him; and never
had he been more grandly the Apostle to the Indians than now.

In passionate tenderness, in burning appeal, in living force and power of delivery, it was
the supreme effort of his life. He did not plead for himself; he ignored, put aside, forgot
his own personal danger; but he set before his hearers the wickedness of their own system of
retaliation and revenge; he showed them how it overshadowed their lives and lay like a deadening
weight on their better natures. The horror, the cruelty, the brute animalism of the blood-thirst,
the war-lust, was set over against the love and forgiveness to which the Great Spirit called them.

The hearts of the Indians were shaken within them. The barbarism which was the outcome of centuries
of strife and revenge, the dark and cumulative growth of ages, was stirred to its core by the
strong and tender eloquence of this one man. As he spoke, there came to all those swarthy listeners,
in dim beauty, a glimpse of a better life; there came to them a moment's fleeting revelation
of something above their own vindictiveness and ferocity. That vague longing, that indefinable
wistfulness which he had so often seen on the faces of his savage audiences was on nearly every
face when he closed.

As he took his seat, the tide of inspiration went from him, and a deadly faintness came over
him. It seemed as if in that awful reaction the last spark of vitality was dying out; but somehow,
through it all, he felt at peace with God and man. A great quiet was upon him; he was anxious
for nothing, he cared for nothing, he simply rested as on the living presence of the Father.

Upon the sweet and lingering spell of his closing words came Multnomah's tones in stern contrast.

"What is the word of the council? Shall the white man live or die?"

Snoqualmie was on his feet in an instant.

"Blood for blood. Let the white man die at the torture-stake."

One by one the chiefs gave their voice for death. Shaken for but a moment, the ancient inherited
barbarism which was their very life reasserted itself, and they could decide no other way.
One, two, three of the sachems gave no answer, but sat in silence. They were men whose hearts
had been touched before by Cecil, and who were already desiring the better life They could
not condemn their teacher.

At length it came to Tohomish. He arose. His face, always repulsive, was pallid now in the
extreme. The swathed corpses on mimaluse island looked not more sunken and ghastly.

He essayed to speak; thrice the words faltered on his lips; and when at last he spoke, it was
in a weary, lifeless way. His tones startled the audience like an electric shock. The marvellous
power and sweetness were gone from his voice; its accents were discordant, uncertain. Could
the death's head before them be that of Tohomish? Could those harsh and broken tones be those
of the Pine Voice? He seemed like a man whose animal life still survived, but whose soul was dead.

What he said at first had no relation to the matter before the council. Every Indian had his
tomanowos appointed him by the Great Spirit from his birth, and that tomanowos was the strength
of his life. Its influence grew with his growth; the roots of his being were fed in it; it
imparted its characteristics to him. But the name and nature of his tomanowos was the one secret
that must go with him to the grave. If it was told, the charm was lost and the tomanowos deserted
him.

Tohomish's tomanowos was the Bridge and the foreknowledge of its fall: a black secret that
had darkened his whole life, and imparted the strange and mournful mystery to his eloquence.
Now that the Bridge was fallen, the strength was gone from Tohomish's heart, the music from
his words.

"Tohomish has no voice now," he continued; "he is as one dead. He desires to say only this,
then his words shall be heard no more among men. The fall of the Bridge is a sign that not
only the Willamettes but all the tribes of the Wauna shall fall and pass away. Another people
shall take our place, another race shall reign in our stead, and the Indian shall be forgotten,
or remembered only as a dim memory of the past.

"And who are they who bring us our doom? Look on the face of the white wanderer there; listen
to the story of your brethren slain at the sea-coast by the white men in the canoe, and you
will know. They come; they that are stronger, and push us out into the dark. The white wanderer
talks of peace; but the Great Spirit has put death between the Indian and the white man, and
where he has put death there can be no peace.

"Slay the white man as the white race will slay your children in the time that is to come.
Peace? love? There can be only war and hate. Striking back blow for blow like a wounded rattlesnake,
shall the red man pass; and when the bones of the last Indian of the Wauna lie bleaching on
the prairie far from the mimaluse island of his fathers, then there will be peace.

"Tohomish has spoken; his words are ended, and ended forever."

The harsh, disjointed tones ceased. All eyes fell again on Cecil, the representative of the
race by which the Willamettes were doomed. The wrath of all those hundreds, the vengeance of
all those gathered tribes of the Wauna, the hatred of the whole people he had come to save,
seemed to rise up and fall upon him the frail invalid with the sharp pain throbbing at his heart.

But that strange peace was on him still, and his eyes, dilated and brilliant in the extremity
of physical pain, met those lowering brows with a look of exceeding pity.

Multnomah rose to pronounce sentence. For him there could be but one decision, and he gave
it,--the clinched hand, the downward gesture, that said, "There is death between us. We will
slay as we shall be slain."

Cecil was on his feet, though it seemed as if he must fall within the moment. He fought down
the pain that pierced his heart like a knife; he gathered the last resources of an exhausted
frame for one more effort. The executioners sprang forward with the covering for his eyes that
was to shut out the light forever. His glance, his gesture held them back; they paused irresolutely,
even in the presence of Multnomah; weak as Cecil was, he was the great white tomanowos still,
and they dared not touch him. There was a pause, an intense silence.

"I gave up all to come and tell you of God, and you have condemned me to die at the torture-stake,"
said the soft, low voice, sending through their stern hearts its thrill and pathos for the
last time. "But you shall not bring this blood-stain upon your souls. The hand of the Great
Spirit is on me; he takes me to himself. Remember--what I have said. The Great Spirit loves
you. Oh calamity! Go, bring a bottle of essences. We ran
out of philosophy! There is no longer possible philosophy. Since there are only positive sciences
and prosaic. I killed my philosopher. (He leans over him and embraced him with the greatest tenderness.)
Smells bad, but ... Is so wise! Is so good!

SCENE XII.

SUCH, ATESTAIS.

(Atenais Asclepigenia helps care for Proclus, using a jar of scents to their noses)

Atenais .-- Calm down. It's nothing.

And regains consciousness.

Asclepigenia .-- I have been a good scare!

Poor thing my dear! Too bad it gave me!

Proclus. (Gets up.) - Forgive me, friend. It was a moment of weakness.

(Repairing in Atenais.) Who is this dashing damsel?

Asclepigenia .-- It Atenais, daughter of Leonard.

PROCLEAN .-- The daughter of my learned and illustrious friend!

... Heaven bless you, Atenais!

Asclepigenia .-- Will you forgive me, Proclus?

PROCLEAN .-- Say no more of the past: forget it.

Asclepigenia .-- Will you live with me?

PROCLEAN .-- I do not want and I can live without you. You are the star that illuminates with
its gentle light the melancholy evening of my life. These soft white hands (making hers) sealed with
love when they meet my eyes to sleep the last sleep.

Contigo .-- Asclepigenia not miss neither wealth nor the body beautiful ... What else beauty
that more wealth than the treasures of your soul?

If required, we will live to the fullest strait.

Something I can spoil the cook's hands and clothing remendarte. Elegance, dedication, the scent of
aristocratic distinction will vanish almost entirely when live miserably. But what matter? Do I
possess your soul and mine?
PROCLEAN .-- There has to be. Not consent to be lost or deteriorate
even a spark or an atom of all the beauty that nature gave you and
that art has been completed and enhanced. I earn wealth for you. For
you will have lush beauty and youth body.

Asclepigenia .-- Do not
freak out, Proclus. The youth is gone, never returns. Venus Urania
not visited you for no reason. As for wealth, I certainly did not
ever win a mite with all your philosophy, unless that appeals to the
miracle.

PROCLEAN .-- Well, the miracle appealed. Now you will see
who I am. Here I love you, oh Theurgy! For something I have to serve.
So far, Asclepigenia idolized, and have owned in Eumorfo in Crematurgo
beauty, youth and wealth, quotas, limited and outdated. From now on
later you will have youth, beauty and wealth at all and forever. Saved
religious silence. And starts the spell.

(Deep silence. Proclus,
waving his stick, he draws air in circles, and other magical figures,
and muttered unintelligible words. Hear celestial music, slow and
submissive. In the center of the theater is a brilliant and candid
curdled cloud with carmine red glow, gold and pearl.)

And Atenais
Asclepigenia .-- What wonder!

PROCLEAN .-- Hiding in the cloud you
already have, at your service and your service, replacing Eumorfo
and Crematurgo, the archer Apollo, the most elegant and beautiful
of the gods, and the son of Jasion and Ceres, Pluto the blind, a dispenser
of wealth. Want to go with retinues of muses, graces, nymphs, genii,
or go alone?

Beside the grave crouched the old Indian woman, alone and forsaken in her despair,--the one
mourner out of all for whom his life had been given.

No, not the only one; for a tall warrior enters the grove; the Shoshone renegade bends over
her and touches her gently on the shoulder.

"Come," he says kindly, "our horses are saddled; we take the trail up the Wauna to-night, I
and my friends. We will fly from this fated valley ere the wrath of the Great Spirit falls
upon it. Beyond the mountains I will seek a new home with the Spokanes or the Okanogans. Come;
my home shall be your home, because you cared for him that is gone."

She shook her head and pointed to the grave.

"My heart is there; my life is buried with him. I cannot go."

Again he urged her.

"No, no," she replied, with Indian stubbornness; "I cannot leave him. Was I not like his mother?
How can I go and leave him for others? The roots of the old tree grow not in new soil. If it
is pulled up it dies."

"Come with me," said the savage, with a gentleness born of his new faith. "Be my mother. We
will talk of him; you shall tell me of him and his God. Come, the horses wait."

Again she shook her head; then fell forward on the grave, her arms thrown out, as if to clasp
it in her embrace. He tried to lift her; her head fell back, and she lay relaxed and motionless
in his arms.

Another grave was made by Cecil's; and the little band rode through the mountain pass that
night, toward the country of the Okanogans, without her.

And that same night, an English exploring vessel far out at sea sailed southward, leaving behind
the unknown shores of Oregon,--her crew never dreaming how near they had been to finding the
lost wanderer, Cecil Grey.

CHAPTER II.

THE MARRIAGE AND THE BREAKING UP.

            Remembering love and all the dead delight,
            And all that time was sweet with for a space.

                                               SWINBURNE.

After Cecil had been borne from the council-grove, the Indians, rousing themselves from the
spell of the strange scene they had just witnessed, looked around for Tohomish the seer. He
was gone. No one could remember seeing him go, yet he was missing from his accustomed place,
and never was he seen or heard of more. Upon his fate, lost in the common ruin that engulfed
his race, the legend casts no ray of light. It is certain that the fall of the Bridge, with
which his life was interwoven, had a disastrous effect upon him, and as he said, that the strength
of his life was broken. It is probable that the orator-seer, feeling within himself that his
power was gone, crept away into the forest to die. Perhaps, had they searched for him, they
would have found him lying lifeless upon the leaves in some dense thicket or at the foot of
some lonely crag.

Whatever his fate, the Indians never looked upon his face again.

Multnomah made no comment on the death of Cecil, or on the prophecy of Tohomish, so much at
variance with his own interpretation of the fall of the Bridge. Whatever he had to say was
evidently held in reserve for the closing talk with which he would soon dismiss the council.

"You shall see Multnomah's daughter given to Snoqualmie, and then Multnomah will open his hand
and make you rich."

So said the war-chief; and a runner was dispatched with a summons to Wallulah. In a little
while a band of Indian girls was seen approaching the grove. Surrounded by the maidens, as
if they were a guard of honor, came Wallulah, all unconscious of the tragedy that had just
been enacted.

Among the chiefs they passed, and stopped before Multnomah. As they paused, Wallulah looked
around for Cecil in one quick glance; then, not seeing him, she cast down her eyes despondingly.
Multnomah rose and beckoned Snoqualmie to him. He came forward and stood beside the war-chief.
The Indian girls stepped back a little, in involuntary awe of the two great sachems, and left
Wallulah standing alone before them.

Her face wore a patient look, as of one who is very worn and weary, tired of the burdens of
life, yet going forward without hope, without thought even, to other and still heavier burdens.
She was clad in a soft oriental fabric; her hair fell in luxuriant tresses upon her shoulders;
her flute hung at her belt by a slender chain of gold.

There was something unspeakably sad and heart-broken in her appearance, as she stood there,
a listless, dejected figure, before those two grim warriors, awaiting her doom.

Multnomah took her hand; the fingers of the other were clasped around her beloved flute, pressing
it closely, as if seeking help from its mute companionship. The chief gave her hand into Snoqualmie's;
a shudder passed through her as she felt his touch, and she trembled from head to foot; then
she controlled herself by a strong effort. Snoqualmie's fierce black eyes searched her face,
as if looking through and through her, and she flushed faintly under their penetrating gaze.

"She is yours," said the war-chief. "Be kind to her, for though she is your wife she is the
daughter of Multnomah." So much did the Indian say for love of his child, wondering at her
strange, sad look, and feeling vaguely that she was unhappy. She tried to withdraw her fingers
from Snoqualmie's clasp the moment her father was done speaking. He held them tightly, however,
and bending over her, spoke in a low tone.

"My band starts for home at mid-day. Be ready to go when I send for you."

She looked up with startled, piteous eyes.

"To-day?" she asked in a choked voice.

"To-day," came the abrupt reply; too low for the others to hear, yet harsh enough to sting
her through and through. "Do you think Snoqualmie goes back to his illahee and leaves his woman
behind?"

Her spirit kindled in resentment. Never had the chief's daughter been spoken to so harshly;
then all at once it came to her that he knew,--that he must have followed Cecil and witnessed
one of their last interviews. Jealous, revengeful, the Indian was her master now. She grew
pale to the lips. He released her hand, and she shrank away from him, and left the council
with her maidens. No one had heard the few half-whispered words that passed between them but
those who stood nearest noticed the deadly pallor that came over her face while Snoqualmie
was speaking. Multnomah saw it, and Snoqualmie caught from him a glance that chilled even his
haughty nature--a glance that said, "Beware; she is the war-chief's daughter."

But even if he had known all, Multnomah would have sacrificed her. His plans must be carried
out even though her heart be crushed.

Now followed the potlatch,--the giving of gifts. At a signal from the war-chief, his slaves
appeared, laden with presents. Large heaps of rich furs and skins were laid on the ground near
the chiefs. The finest of bows and arrows, with gaily decorated quivers and store of bow-strings,
were brought. Untold treasure of hiagua shells, money as well as ornament to the Oregon Indians,
was poured out upon the ground, and lay glistening in the sun in bright-colored masses. To
the Indians they represented vast and splendid wealth. Multnomah was the richest of all the
Indians of the Wauna; and the gifts displayed were the spoil of many wars, treasures garnered
during forty years of sovereignty.

And now they were all given away. The chief kept back nothing, except some cases of oriental
fabrics that had been saved from the wreck when Wallulah's mother was cast upon the shore.
Well would it have been for him and his race had they been given too; for, little as they dreamed
it, the fate of the Willamettes lay sealed up in those unopened cases of silk and damask.

Again and again the slaves of Multnomah added their burdens to the heaps, and went back for
more, till a murmur of wonder rose among the crowd. His riches seemed exhaustless. At length,
however, all was brought. The chief stood up, and, opening his hands to them in the Indian
gesture for giving, said,--

"There is all that was Multnomah's; it is yours; your hands are full now and mine are empty."

The chiefs and warriors rose up gravely and went among the heaps of treasure; each selecting
from furs and skins, arms and hiagua shells, that which he desired. There was no unseemly haste
or snatching; a quiet decorum prevailed among them. The women and children were excluded from
sharing in these gifts, but provisions--dried meats and berries, and bread of camas or Wappatto
root--were thrown among them on the outskirts of the crowd where they were gathered. And unlike
the men, they scrambled for it like hungry animals; save where here and there the wife or daughter
of a chief stood looking disdainfully on the food and those who snatched at it.

Such giving of gifts, or potlatches, are still known among the Indians. On Puget Sound and
the Okanogan, one occasionally hears of some rich Indian making a great potlatch,--giving away
all his possessions, and gaining nothing but a reputation for disdain of wealth, a reputation
which only Indian stoicism would crave. Multnomah's object was not that so much as to make,
before the dispersal of the tribes, a last and most favorable impression.

When the presents were all divided, the chiefs resumed their places to hear the last speech
of Multnomah,--the speech that closed the council.

It was a masterpiece of dignity, subtility, and command. The prophecy of Tohomish was evaded,
the fall of the Bridge wrested into an omen propitious to the Willamettes; and at last his
hearers found themselves believing as he wished them to believe, without knowing how or why,
so strongly did the overmastering personality of Multnomah penetrate and sway their lesser
natures. He particularly dwelt on the idea that they were all knit together now and were as
one race. Yet through the smooth words ran a latent threat, a covert warning of the result
of any revolt against his authority based on what plotting dreamers might say of the fall of
the Bridge,--a half-expressed menace, like the gleam of a sword half drawn from the scabbard.
And he closed by announcing that ere another spring the young men of all the tribes would go
on the war-path against the Shoshones and come back loaded with spoil. And so, kindling the
hatred of the chiefs against the common enemy, Multnomah closed the great council.

In a little while the camp was all astir with preparation for departure. Lodges were being
taken down, the mats that covered them rolled up and packed on the backs of horses; all was
bustle and tumult. Troop after troop crossed the river and took the trail toward the upper
Columbia.

But when the bands passed from under the personal influence of Multnomah, they talked of the
ominous things that had just happened; they said to each other that the Great Spirit had forsaken
the Willamettes, and that when they came into the valley again it would be to plunder and to
slay. Multnomah had stayed the tide but for a moment. The fall of the ancient tomanowos of
the Willamettes had a tremendous significance to the restless tributaries, and already the
confederacy of the Wauna was crumbling like a rope of sand. Those tribes would meet no more
in peace on the island of council.

CHAPTER III.

AT THE CASCADES.

            Wails on the wind, fades out the sunset quite,
            And in my heart and on the earth is night.

                                    PHILIP BOURKE MARSTON.

The main body of Snoqualmie's followers crossed to the north bank of the Columbia and took
the trail leading up the river toward the inland prairies. But Snoqualmie and Wallulah went
by canoe as far as the now ruined Bridge of the Gods. There were three canoes in their train.
Snoqualmie and Wallulah occupied the first; the other two were laden with the rich things that
had once made her lodge so beautiful. It stood all bare and deserted now, the splendor stripped
from its rough bark walls even as love and hope had been reft from the heart of its mistress.
Tapestries, divans, carpets, mirrors, were heaped in the canoes like spoil torn from the enemy.

The farewell between Wallulah and her father had been sorrowful. It was remembered afterward,
by those who were witnesses of it, that the war-chief had shown a tenderness unusual with him,
that he had seemed reluctant to part with his daughter, and that she had clung to him, pale
and tearful, as if he were her last hope on earth.

When Snoqualmie took her hand to lead her away, she shuddered, withdrew her fingers from his
clasp, and walked alone to the canoe. He entered after her: the canoe-men dipped their paddles
into the water, and the vessel glided away from the island.

She sat reclining on a heap of furs, her elbows sunk in them, her cheek resting on her hand,
her eyes turned back toward her island home. Between it and her the expanse of waters grew
ever broader, and the trail the canoe left behind it sparkled in a thousand silvery ripples.
The island, with its green prairies and its stately woods, receded fast. She felt as she looked
back as if everything was slipping away from her. Lonely as her life had been before Cecil
came into it, she had still had her music and her beautiful rooms in the bark lodge; and they
seemed infinitely sweet and precious now as she recalled them. Oh, if she could only have them
back again! And those interviews with Cecil. How love and grief shook the little figure as
she thought! How loathingly she shrunk from the presence of the barbarian at her side! And
all the time the island receded farther and farther in the distance, and the canoe glided forward
like a merciless fate bearing her on and on toward the savagery of the inland desert.

Snoqualmie sat watching her with glittering, triumphant eyes. To him she was no more than some
lovely animal of which he had become the owner; and ownership of course brought with it the
right to tantalize and to torture. A malicious smile crossed his lips as he saw how sorrowfully
her gaze rested on her old home.

"Look forward," he said, "not back; look forward to your life with Snoqualmie and to the lodge
that awaits you in the land of the Cayuses."

She started, and her face flushed painfully; then without looking at him she replied,--

"Wallulah loves her home, and leaving it saddens her."

A sparkle of vindictive delight came into his eyes.

"Do the women of the Willamette feel sad when they go to live with their husbands? It is not
so with the Cayuse women. They are glad; they care for the one they belong to. They love to
sit in the sun at the door of the wigwam and say to the other women, 'My man is brave; he leads
the war party; he has many scalps at his belt. Who is brave like my man?'"

Wallulah shuddered. He saw it, and the sparkle of malice in his eyes flashed into sudden anger.

"Does the young squaw tremble at these things? Then she must get used to them. She must learn
to bring wood and water for Snoqualmie's lodge, too. She must learn to wait on him as an Indian's
wife ought. The old wrinkled squaws, who are good for nothing but to be beasts of burden, shall
teach her."

There came before her a picture of the ancient withered hags, the burden-bearers, the human
vampires of the Indian camps, the vile in word and deed, the first to cry for the blood of
captives, the most eager to give taunts and blows to the helpless; were they to be her associates,
her teachers? Involuntarily she lifted her hand, as if to push from her a future so dreadful.

"Wallulah will bring the wood and the water. Wallulah will work. The old women need not teach her."

"That is well. But one thing more you must learn; and that is to hold up your head and not
look like a drooping captive. Smile, laugh, be gay. Snoqualmie will have no clouded face, no
bent head in his lodge."

She looked at him imploringly. The huge form, the swarthy face, seemed to dominate her, to
crush her down with their barbarian strength and ferocity. She dropped her eyes again, and
lay there on the furs like some frightened bird shrinking from the glance of a hawk.

"I will work; I will bear burdens," she repeated, in a trembling tone. "But I cannot smile
and laugh when my heart is heavy."

He watched her with a half angry, half malicious regard, a regard that seemed ruthlessly probing
into every secret of her nature.

She knew somehow that he was aware of her love for Cecil, and she dreaded lest he should taunt
her with it. Anything but that. He knew it, and held it back as his last and most cruel blow.
Over his bronzed face flitted no expression of pity. She was to him like some delicate wounded
creature of the forest, that it was a pleasure to torture. So he had often treated a maimed
bird or fawn,--tantalizing it, delighted by its fluttering and its pain, till the lust of torture
was gratified and the death-blow was given.

He sat regarding her with a sneering, malicious look for a little while; then he said,--

"It is hard to smile on Snoqualmie; but the white man whom you met in the wood, it was not
so with him. It was easy to smile and look glad at him, but it is hard to do so for Snoqualmie."

Wallulah shrunk as if he had struck her a blow; then she looked at him desperately, pleadingly.

"Do not say such cruel things. I will be a faithful wife to you. I will never see the white
man again."

The sneering malice in his eyes gave way to the gleam of exultant anger.

"Faithful! You knew you were to be my woman when you let him put his arms around you and say
soft things to you. Faithful! You would leave Snoqualmie for him now, could it be so. But you
say well that you will never see him again."

She gazed at him in terror.

"What do you mean? Has anything happened to him? Have they harmed him?"

Over the chief's face came the murderous expression that was there when he slew the Bannock
warrior at the torture stake.

"Harmed him! Do you think that he could meet you alone and say sweet things to you and caress
you,--you who were the same as my squaw,--and I not harm him? He is dead; I slew him."

False though it was, in so far as Snoqualmie claimed to have himself slain Cecil, it was thoroughly
in keeping with Indian character. White captives were often told, "I killed your brother,"
or, "This is your husband's scalp," when perhaps the person spoken of was alive and well.

"Dead!"

He threw his tomahawk at her feet.

"His blood is on it. You are Snoqualmie's squaw; wash it off."

Dead, dead, her lover was dead! That was all she could grasp. Snoqualmie's insulting command
passed unheeded. She sat looking at the Indian with bright, dazed eyes that saw nothing. All
the world seemed blotted out.

"I tell you that he is dead, and I slew him. Are you asleep that you stare at me so? Awaken
and do as I bid you; wash your lover's blood off my tomahawk."

At first she had been stunned by the terrible shock, and she could realize only that Cecil
was dead. Now it came to her, dimly at first, then like a flash of fire, that Snoqualmie had
slain him. All her spirit leaped up in uncontrollable hatred. For once, she was the war-chief's
daughter. She drew her skirts away from the tomahawk in unutterable horror; her eyes blazed
into Snoqualmie's a defiance and scorn before which his own sunk for the instant.

"You killed him! I hate you. I will never be your wife. You have thrown the tomahawk between
us; it shall be between us forever. Murderer! You have killed the one I love. Yes, I loved
him; and I hate you and will hate you till I die."

The passion in her voice thrilled even the canoe-men, and their paddle strokes fell confusedly
for an instant, though they did not understand; for both Wallulah and Snoqualmie had spoken
in the royal tongue of the Willamettes. He sat abashed for an instant, taken utterly by surprise.

Then the wild impulse of defiance passed, and the awful sense of bereavement came back like
the falling of darkness over a sinking flame. Cecil was gone from her, gone for all time. The
world seemed unreal, empty. She sunk among the furs like one stricken down. Snoqualmie, recovering
from his momentary rebuff, heaped bitter epithets and scornful words upon her; but she neither
saw nor heard, and lay with wide, bright, staring eyes. Her seeming indifference maddened him
still more, and he hurled at her the fiercest abuse. She looked at him vaguely. He saw that
she did not even know what he was saying, and relapsed into sullen silence. She lay mute and
still, with a strained expression of pain in her eyes. The canoe sped swiftly on.

One desolating thought repeated itself again and again,--the thought of hopeless and irreparable
loss. By it past and present were blotted out. By and by, when she awoke from the stupor of
despair and realized her future, destined to be passed with the murderer of her lover, what
then? But now she was stunned with the shock of a grief that was mercy compared with the awakening
that must come.

They were in the heart of the Cascade Mountains, and a low deep roar began to reach their ears,
rousing and startling all but Wallulah. It was the sound of the cascades, of the new cataract
formed by the fall of the Great Bridge. Rounding a bend in the river they came in sight of
it. The mighty arch, the long low mountain of stone, had fallen in, damming up the waters of
the Columbia, which were pouring over the sunken mass in an ever-increasing volume. Above,
the river, raised by the enormous dam, had spread out like a lake, almost submerging the trees
that still stood along the former bank. Below the new falls the river was comparatively shallow,
its rocky bed half exposed by the sudden stoppage of the waters.

The Indians gazed with superstitious awe on the vast barrier over which the white and foaming
waters were pouring. The unwonted roar of the falls, a roar that seemed to increase every moment
as the swelling waters rushed over the rocks; the sight of the wreck of the mysterious bridge,
foreshadowing the direst calamities,--all this awed the wild children of the desert. They approached
the falls slowly and cautiously.

A brief command from Snoqualmie, and they landed on the northern side of the river, not far
from the foot of the falls. There they must disembark, and the canoes be carried around the
falls on the shoulders of Indians and launched above.

The roar of the Cascades roused Wallulah from her stupor. She stepped ashore and looked in
dazed wonder on the strange new world around her. Snoqualmie told her briefly that she must
walk up the bank to the place where the canoe was to be launched again above the falls. She
listened mutely, and started to go. But the way was steep and rocky; the bank was strewn with
the débris of the ruined bridge; and she was unused to such exertion. Snoqualmie saw her stumble
and almost fall. It moved him to a sudden and unwonted pity, and he sprang forward to help
her. She pushed his hand from her as if it had been the touch of a serpent, and went on alone.
His eyes flashed: for all this the reckoning should come, and soon; woe unto her when it came.

The rough rocks bruised her delicately shod feet, the steep ascent took away her breath. Again
and again she felt as if she must fall; but the bitter scorn and loathing that Snoqualmie's
touch had kindled gave her strength, and at last she completed the ascent.

Above the falls and close to them, she sat down upon a rock; a slight, drooping figure, whose
dejected pose told of a broken heart.

Before her, almost at her feet, the pent-up river was widened to a vast flood. Here and there
a half-submerged pine lifted its crown above it; the surface was ruffled by the wind, and white-crested
waves were rolling among the green tree-tops. She looked with indifference upon the scene.
She had not heard that the Bridge had fallen, and was, of course, ignorant of these new cascades;
and they did not impress her as being strange.

Her whole life was broken up; all the world appeared shattered by the blow that had fallen
on her, and nothing could startle her now. She felt dimly that some stupendous catastrophe
had taken place; yet it did not appear unnatural. A strange sense of unreality possessed her;
everything seemed an illusion, as if she were a shadow in a land of shadows. The thought came
to her that she was dead, and that her spirit was passing over the dim ghost trail to the shadow-land.
She tried to shake off the fancy, but all was so vague and dreamlike that she hardly knew where
or what she was; yet over it all brooded the consciousness of dull, heavy, torturing pain,
like the dumb agony that comes to us in fevered sleep, burdening our dreams with a black oppressing
weight of horror.

Her hand, hanging listlessly at her side, touched her flute, which was still suspended from
her belt by the golden chain. She raised it to her lips, but only a faint inharmonious note
came from it. The music seemed gone from the flute, as hope was gone from her heart. To her
overwrought nerves, it was the last omen of all. The flute dropped from her fingers; she covered
her face with her hands, and the hot tears coursed slowly down her cheeks.

Some one spoke to her, not ungently, and she looked up. One of the canoe-men stood beside her.
He pointed to the canoe, now launched near by. Snoqualmie was still below, at the foot of the
falls, superintending the removal of the other.

Slowly and wearily she entered the waiting canoe and resumed her seat. The Indian paddlers
took their places. They told her that the chief Snoqualmie had bidden them take her on without
him. He would follow in the other canoe. It was a relief to be free from his presence, if only
for a little while; and the sadness on her face lightened for a moment when they told her.

A few quick paddle-strokes, and the boat shot out into the current above the cascades and then
glided forward. No, not forward. The canoe-men, unfamiliar with the new cataract, had launched
their vessel too close to the falls; and the mighty current was drawing it back. A cry of horror
burst from their lips as they realized their danger, and their paddles were dashed into the
water with frenzied violence. The canoe hung quivering through all its slender length between
the desperate strokes that impelled it forward and the tremendous suction that drew it down.
Had they been closer to the bank, they might have saved themselves; but they were too far out
in the current. They felt the canoe slipping back in spite of their frantic efforts, slowly
at first, then more swiftly; and they knew there was no hope.

The paddles fell from their hands. One boatman leaped from the canoe with the desperate idea
of swimming ashore, but the current instantly swept him under and out of sight; the other sat
motionless in his place, awaiting the end with Indian stolidity.

The canoe was swept like a leaf to the verge of the fall and downward into a gulf of mist and
spray. As it trembled on the edge of the cataract, and its horrors opened beneath her, Wallulah
realized her doom for the first time; and in the moment she realised it, it was upon her. There
was a quick terror, a dreamlike glimpse of white plunging waters, a deafening roar, a sudden
terrible shock as the canoe was splintered on the rocks at the foot of the fall; then all things
were swallowed up in blackness, a blackness that was death.

Below the falls, strong swimmers, leaping into the water, brought the dead to land. Beneath
a pine-tree that grew close by the great Columbia trail and not far from the falls, the bodies
were laid. The daughter of Multnomah lay in rude state upon a fawn-skin; while at her feet
were extended the brawny forms of the two canoe-men who had died with her, and who, according
to Indian mythology, were to be her slaves in the Land of the Hereafter. Her face was very
lovely, but its mournfulness remained. Her flute, broken in the shock that had killed her,
was still attached to her belt. The Indians had placed her hand at her side, resting upon the
flute; and they noticed in superstitious wonder that the cold fingers seemed to half close
around it, as if they would clasp it lovingly, even in death. Indian women knelt beside her,
fanning her face with fragrant boughs of pine. Troop after troop, returning over the trail
to their homes, stopped to hear the tale, and to gaze at the dead face that was so wonderfully
beautiful yet so sad.

All day long the bands gathered; each stopping, none passing indifferently by. At length, when
evening came and the shadow of the wood fell long and cool, the burials began. A shallow grave
was scooped at Wallulah's feet for the bodies of the two canoe-men. Even with the car I've ever known.

- We do not speak ill of her.

- Not to speak ill. Let's see ...! Which is bueycencia talk shit, Madam President of ministers.

-
Me?

- Yes ... Your Eminence, Grace is what has been said that the Benina sisaba, so that not true,
because if Sisera did, and if I had not come to ask.

Take that.

- For Boconó you have to condemn you.

- No one is condemned by Boconó, but rich, mostly when you remove the alms to the poor good law,
those who are hungry and sleep in the open.

- Hey, we're in the house of God, ladies - Elisha said banging on the floor with wooden leg -.
Keep respect and decency for one another, as mandated by the Holy dotrina. "

With this came the gathering and tranquility that the vehemence of some altered so often, and either
order groaning and yawning pray they spent their sad hours.

Now it must be said that the absence of the Sena and blind Benina Almudena was no accident that
day for which there are explanations of an event that deserves mention in this true history. They
left two, as has been said, one after another, unlike a few minutes; but as the old woman stopped
at the gate for a while, talking to Pulido, the blind Moroccan joined
him and both went away together through the streets of San Sebastian
and Atocha.

"I stopped to chat with Polished wait, friend Almudena. I have to talk to you. "

And seizing him by the arm affectionate request, handed from one sidewalk
to another.

Soon gained the Urosas Street, and standing on the corner, safe from
cars and passers-by, again to say, "I have to talk to you, because
you can only get me a big commitment; yourself, because other knowledge
of the parish to serve me anything.

"You find you? They are selfish hearts of flint ... Which has, because it has, who does not
have, because no. Total, that will to die of shame, and if a hand
comes, rejoice in see a poor beggar on the floor.

"

Almudena his face turned toward her, and could even be said to be looked at, if you look at is direct
eyes toward an object, making them, since you have not seen, intent, and in some attention mode, as
sustained as ineffective. Squeezing her hand, said, "Amri, you know that he serve Almudena,
Almudena me, like Pierre. Amri, dicermi things you ... tigo things.

- Let's go down, and talk on the road. Are you going home?

- I do want you.

- It seems that you get tired. We very quickly. Is it all right for us to sit a while in the Progress
Square to talk peacefully? ".

No doubt The blind man said yes, because five minutes after they were seen sitting side by side
in the base of the fence surrounding the statue of Mendizabal. The face Almudena, an ugly expression,
dark citrine, with wispy beard, black as the raven's wing, was characterized mainly by the
excessive grandeur of the mouth, when he smiled, affected a curve
whose ends, replicating the loose skin of the cheek, got too close
ears.

The eyes were like sores and dry and insensitive, surrounded by patches sanguine; medium size, crooked
legs. His body had lost its graceful shape by the habit of walking in the dark, and spend long hours
sitting on the floor with legs Moorish folded.

Decency wore on, as his clothes, but old and full of dirt, did not
tear or damage which were not amended by a darned smart patches or
applications and patches.

She wore black boots, very pink, but perfectly seams and patches
defended habilis.

The bowler hat revealed dilated services different heads, to come
to lend at that, that may not be the last, dents felt they were not
such that would prevent the defense skull material covering.

The stick was hard and glossy, the hand that was holding him, nervous,
outside morenísimo color, throwing Ethiopic, white palm, his tone
and softness that resembled to a press raw hake, nails trimmed, the
collar at least dirty it is possible to imagine the miserable condition
of the unhappy and wandering life of His son.

"For what we were going,
Almudena - Benina Sena said, taking his handkerchief to put it back,
restless and nervous as a person who wants to ventilate the head -.
I have a serious commitment and you, nothing but you, you can get
me out of it.

- Dicermi it, you ...

- What did you think to do this
afternoon?

- At home me, mocha that JACER me: I wash clothes, sew
mocha, mocha patch.

- You are the breading man in the world. I have
not seen another like you. The fall of the magic Bridge, the death of Wallulah,
and the fatal illness of Multnomah had sealed the doom of the Willamettes. The chiefs stayed
their followers only till they knew that he was dead. But the grand old war-chief seemed determined
that he would not die. He struggled with disease; he crushed down his sufferings; he fought
death with the same silent, indomitable tenacity with which he had overthrown the obstacles
of life.

In all his wasting agony he was the war-chief still, and held his subjects in his grip. To
the tribes that were about to rebel he sent messages, short, abrupt, but terrible in their
threat of vengeance,--messages that shook and awed the chiefs and pushed back invasion. To
the last, the great chief overawed the tribes; the generation that had grown up under the shadow
of his tyranny, even when they knew he was dying, still obeyed him.

At length, one summer evening a few weeks after the burial of Wallulah, there burst forth from
the war-chief's lodge that peculiar wail which was lifted only for the death of one of the
royal blood. No need to ask who it was, for only one remained of the ancient line that had
so long ruled the Willamettes; and for him, the last of his race, was the wail lifted. It was
re-echoed by the inmates of the surrounding lodges; it rang, foreboding, mournful, through
the encampment on Wappatto Island.

Soon, runners were seen departing in every direction to bear the fatal news throughout the
valley. Twilight fell on them; the stars came out; the moon rose and sunk; but the runners
sped on, from camp to camp, from village to village. Wherever there was a cluster of Willamette
lodges, by forest, river, or sea, the tale was told, the wail was lifted. So all that night
the death-wail passed through the valley of the Willamette; and in the morning the trails were
thronged with bands of Indians journeying for the last time to the isle of council, to attend
the obsequies of their chief, and consult as to the choice of one to take his place.

The pestilence that had so ravaged the household of Multnomah was spread widely now; and every
band as it departed from the camp left death behind it,--aye, took death with it; for in each
company were those whose haggard, sickly faces told of disease, and in more than one were those
so weakened that they lagged behind and fell at last beside the trail to die.

The weather was very murky. It was one of the smoky summers of Oregon, like that of the memorable
year 1849, when the smoke of wide-spread forest fires hung dense and blinding over Western
Oregon for days, and it seemed to the white settlers as if they were never to breathe the clear
air or see the sky again. But even that, the historic "smoky time" of the white pioneers, was
scarcely equal to the smoky period of more than a century and a half before. The forest fires
were raging with unusual fury; Mount Hood was still in course of eruption; and all the valley
was wrapped in settled cloud. Through the thick atmosphere the tall firs loomed like spectres,
while the far-off roar of flames in the forest and the intermittent sounds of the volcano came
weirdly to the Indians as they passed on their mournful way. What wonder that the distant sounds
seemed to them wild voices in the air, prophecying woe; and objects in the forest, half seen
through the smoke, grotesque forms attending them as they marched! And when the bands had all
gathered on the island, the shuddering Indians told of dim and shadowy phantoms that had followed
and preceded them all the way; and of gigantic shapes in the likeness of men that had loomed
through the smoke, warning them back with outstretched arms. Ominous and unknown cries had
come to them through the gloom; and the spirits of the dead had seemed to marshal them on their
way, or to oppose their coming,--they knew not which.

So, all day long, troop after troop crossed the river to the island, emerging like shadows
from the smoke that seemed to wrap the world,--each with its sickly faces, showing the terrible
spread of the pestilence; each helping to swell the great horror that brooded over all, with
its tale of the sick and dead at home, and the wild things seen on the way. Band after band
the tribes gathered, and when the sun went down the war-chief's obsequies took place.

It was a strange funeral that they gave Multnomah, yet it was in keeping with the dark, grand
life he had lived.

A large canoe was filled with pitch and with pine-knots,--the most inflammable materials an
Oregon forest could furnish. Upon them was heaped all that was left of the chief's riches,
all the silks and velvets that remained of the cargo of the shipwrecked vessel lost upon the
coast long before. And finally, upon the splendid heap of textures, upon the laces and the
damasks of the East, was laid the dead body of Multnomah, dressed in buckskin; his moccasins
on his feet, his tomahawk and his pipe by his side, as became a chief starting on his last journey.

Then as night came on, and the smoky air darkened into deepest gloom, the canoe was taken out
into the main current of the Columbia, and fire was set to the dry knots that made up the funeral
pyre. In an instant the contents of the canoe were in a blaze, and it was set adrift in the
current. Down the river it floated, lighting the night with leaping flames. On the shore, the
assembled tribe watched it in silence, mute, dejected, as they saw their great chief borne
from them forever. Promontory and dusky fir, gleaming water and level beach, were brought into
startling relief against the background of night, as the burning vessel neared them; then sank
into shadow as it passed onward. Overhead, the playing tongues of fire reddened the smoke that
hung dense over the water, and made it assume distorted and fantastic shapes, which moved and
writhed in the wavering light, and to the Indians seemed spectres of the dead, hovering over
the canoe, reaching out their arms to receive the soul of Multnomah.

"It is the dead people come for him," the Willamettes whispered to one another, as they stood
upon the bank, watching the canoe drift farther and farther from them, with the wild play of
light and shadow over it. Down the river, like some giant torch that was to light the war-chief
along the shadowy ways of death, passed the burning canoe. Rounding a wooded point, it blazed
a moment brilliantly beside it, and as it drifted to the farther side, outlined the intervening
trees with fire, till every branch was clearly relieved against a flaming background; then,
passing slowly on beyond the point, the light waned gradually, and at last faded quite away.

And not till then was a sound heard among the silent and impassive throng on the river-bank.
But when the burning canoe had vanished utterly, when black and starless night fell again on
wood and water, the death-wail burst from the Indians with one impulse and one voice,--a people's
cry for its lost chief, a great tribe's lament for the strength and glory that had drifted
from it, never to return.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Among a superstitious race, every fact becomes mingled more or less with fable; every occurrence,
charged with fantastic meanings. And there sprang up among the Indians, no one could tell how,
a prophecy that some night when the Willamettes were in their direst need, a great light would
be seen moving on the waters of the Columbia, and the war-chief would come back in a canoe
of fire to lead them to victory as of old.

Dire and awful grew their need as the days went on; swift and sweeping was the end. Long did
the few survivors of his race watch and wait for his return,--but never more came back Multnomah
to his own.

CHAPTER V.

AS WAS WRIT IN THE BOOK OF FATE.

                                               TENNYSON.

And now our tale draws to a close. There remains but to tell how the last council was held
on Wappatto Island; how Mishlah the Cougar, chief of the Mollalies, died; and how the prophecy
of the Bridge was fulfilled.

The morning after the obsequies of Multnomah, the chiefs met in the grove where the great council
of the tribes had been held only a few weeks before. The leaves, which had been green and glossy
then, were turning yellow and sickly now in the close hot weather. All Nature seemed full of decay.

The chiefs were grouped before the vacant seat of Multnomah; and the Willamette tribe, gathered
from canyon and prairie and fishery, looked on, sole spectators of the proceedings,--for none
of the allies were present. The ravages of the pestilence had been terrible. Many warriors
were missing from the spectators; many chiefs were absent from the council. And there were
some present from whom the others shrunk away, whose hot breath and livid faces showed that
they too were stricken with the plague. There were emaciated Indians among the audience, whose
gaunt forms and hollow eyes told that they had dragged themselves to the council-grove to die.
The wailing of the women at the camp, lamenting those just dead; the howling of the medicine-men
in the distance, performing their incantations over the sick; the mysterious sounds that came
from the burning forest and the volcano,--all these were heard. Round the council the smoke
folded thick and dark, veiling the sun, and shutting out the light of heaven and the mercy
of the Great Spirit.

The chiefs sat long in silence, each waiting for the other to speak. At length arose a stately
warrior famous among the Willamettes for wisdom and prudence.

"We perish," said the chief, "we melt away before the breath of the pestilence, like snow before
the breath of the warm spring wind. And while we die of disease in our lodges, war gathers
against us beyond the ranges. Even now the bands of our enemies may be descending the mountains,
and the tomahawk may smite what the disease has spared. What is to be done? What say the wise
chiefs of the Willamettes? Multnomah's seat is empty: shall we choose another war-chief?"

A pale and ghastly chief rose to reply. It was evident that he was in the last extremity of
disease.

"Shall we choose another war-chief to sit in Multnomah's place? We may; but will he be Multnomah?
The glory of the Willamettes is dead! Talk no more of war, when our war-strength is gone from
us. The Bridge is fallen, the Great Spirit is against us. Let those who are to live talk of
war. It is time for us to learn how to die."

He sunk flushed and exhausted upon the ground. Then rose an aged chief, so old that it seemed
as if a century of time had passed over him. His hair was a dirty gray, his eyes dull and sunken,
his face withered. He supported himself with tremulous bony hands upon his staff. His voice
was feeble, and seemed like an echo from the long-perished past.

"I am old, the oldest of all the Willamettes. I have seen so many winters that no man can count
them. I knew Multnomah's father. I went forth to battle with his father's father; and even
before that I knew others, warriors of a forgotten time. Or do I dream? I know not. The weight
of the time that I have lived is very heavy, and my mind sinks under it. My form is bowed with
the burden of winters. Warriors, I have seen many councils, many troubles, but never a trouble
like this. Of what use is your council? Can the words of wise men stay disease? Can the edge
of the tomahawk turn back sickness? Can you fight against the Great Spirit? He sent the white
man to tell us of our sins and warn us to be better, and you closed your ears and would not
listen. Nay, you would have slain him had not the Great Spirit taken him away. These things
would not have come upon us had you listened to the white shaman. You have offended the Great
Spirit, and he has broken the Bridge and sent disease upon us; and all that your wisdom may
devise can avail naught to stay his wrath. You can but cover your faces in silence, and die."

For a moment the council was very still. The memory of the white wanderer, his strong and tender
eloquence, his fearless denunciation, his loving and passionate appeal, was on them all. Was
the Great Spirit angry with them because they had rejected him?

"Who talks of dying?" said a fierce warrior, starting to his feet. "Leave that to women and
sick men! Shall we stay here to perish while life is yet strong within us? The valley is shadowed
with death; the air is disease; an awful sickness wastes the people; our enemies rush in upon
us. Shall we then lie down like dogs and wait for death? No. Let us leave this land; let us
take our women and children, and fly. Let us seek a new home beyond the Klamath and the Shasta,
in the South Land, where the sun is always warm, and the grass is always green, and the cold
never comes. The spirits are against us here, and to stay is to perish. Let us seek a new home,
where the spirits are not angry; even as our fathers in the time that is far back left their
old home in the ice country of the Nootkas and came hither. I have spoken."

His daring words kindled a moment's animation in the despondent audience; then the ceaseless
wailing of the women and the panting of the sick chiefs in the council filled the silence,
and their hearts sank within them again.

"My brother is brave," said the grave chief who had opened the council, "but are his words
wise? Many of our warriors are dead, many are sick, and Multnomah is gone. The Willamettes
are weak; it is bitter to the lips to say it, but it is true. Our enemies are strong. All the
tribes who were once with us are against us. The passes are kept by many warriors; and could
we fight our way through them to another land, the sickness would go with us. Why fly from
the disease here, to die with it in some far-off land?"

"We cannot leave our own land," said a dreamer, or medicine-man. "The Great Spirit gave it
to us, the bones of our fathers are in it. It is our land," he repeated with touching emphasis.
"The Willamette cannot leave his old home, though the world is breaking up all around him.
The bones of our people are here. Our brothers lie in the death-huts on mimaluse island;--how
can we leave them? Here is the place where we must live; here, if death comes, must we die!"

A murmur of assent came from the listeners. It voiced the decision of the council. With stubborn
Indian fatalism, they would await the end; fighting the rebels if attacked, and sullenly facing
the disease if unmolested. Now a voice was heard that never had been heard in accents of despair,--a
voice that was still fierce and warlike in its resentment of the course the council was taking.
It was the voice of Mishlah the Cougar, chief of the Mollalies. He, too, had the plague, and
had just reached the grove, walking with slow and tottering steps, unlike the Mishlah of other
days. But his eyes glittered with all the old ferocity that had given him the name of Cougar.
Alas, he was but a dying cougar now.

"Shall we stay here to die?" thundered the wild chief, as he stood leaning on his stick, his
sunken eyes sweeping the assembly with a glance of fire. "Shall we stand and tremble till the
pestilence slays us all with its arrows, even as a herd of deer, driven into a deep gulch and
surrounded, stand till they are shot down by the hunters? Shall we stay in our lodges, and
die without lifting a hand? Shall disease burn out the life of our warriors, when they might
fall in battle? No! Let us slay the women and children, cross the mountains, and die fighting
the rebels! Is it not better to fall in battle like warriors than to perish of disease like dogs?"

The chief looked from face to face, but saw no responsive flash in the eyes that met his own.
The settled apathy of despair was on every countenance. Then the medicine-man answered,--

"You could never cross the mountains, even if we did this thing. Your breath is hot with disease;
the mark of death is on your face; the snake of the pestilence has bitten you. If we went out
to battle, you would fall by the wayside to die. Your time is short. To-day you die."

The grim Mollalie met the speaker's glance, and for a moment wavered. He felt within himself
that the words were true, that the plague had sapped his life, that his hour was near at hand.
Then his hesitation passed, and he lifted his head with scornful defiance.

"So be it! Mishlah accepts his doom. Come, you that were once the warriors of Multnomah, but
whose hearts are become the hearts of women; come and learn from a Mollalie how to die!"

Again his glance swept the circle of chiefs as if summoning them to follow him,--then, with
weak and staggering footsteps, he left the grove; and it was as if the last hope of the Willamettes
went with him. The dense atmosphere of smoke soon shut his form from view. Silence fell on
the council. The hearts of the Indians were dead within them. Amid their portentous surroundings,--the
appalling signs of the wrath of the Great Spirit,--the fatal apathy which is the curse of their
race crept over them.

Then rose the medicine-man, wild priest of a wild and debasing superstition, reverenced as
one through whom the dead spoke to the living.

"Break up your council!" he said with fearful look and gesture. "Councils are for those who
expect to live! and you!--the dead call you to them. Choose no chief, for who will be left
for him to rule? You talk of plans for the future. Would you know what that future will be?
I will show you; listen!" He flung up his hand as if imposing silence; and, taken by surprise,
they listened eagerly, expecting to hear some supernatural voice or message prophetic of the
future. On their strained hearing fell only the labored breathing of the sick chiefs in the
council, the ominous muttering of the far-off volcano, and loud and shrill above all the desolate
cry of the women wailing their dead.

"You hear it? That death-wail tells all the future holds for you. Before yonder red shadow
of a sun"--pointing to the sun, which shone dimly through the smoke--"shall set, the bravest
of the Mollalies will be dead. Before the moon wanes to its close, the Willamette race will
have passed away. Think you Multnomah's seat is empty? The Pestilence sits in Multnomah's place,
and you will all wither in his hot and poisonous breath. Break up your council. Go to your
lodges. The sun of the Willamettes is set, and the night is upon us. Our wars are done; our
glory is ended. We are but a tale that old men tell around the camp-fire, a handful of red
dust gathered from mimaluse island,--dust that once was man. Go, you that are as the dead leaves
of autumn; go, whirled into everlasting darkness before the wind of the wrath of the Great Spirit!"

He flung out his arms with a wild gesture, as if he held all their lives and threw them forth
like dead leaves to be scattered upon the winds. Then he turned away and left the grove. The
crowd of warriors who had been looking on broke up and went away, and the chiefs began to leave
the council, each muffled in his blanket. The grave and stately sachem who had opened the council
tried for a little while to stay the fatal breaking up, but in vain. And when he saw that he
could do nothing, he too left the grove, wrapped in stoical pride, sullenly resigned to whatever
was to come.

And so the last council ended, in hopeless apathy, in stubborn indecision,--indecision in everything
save the recognition that a doom was on them against which it was useless to struggle.

And Mishlah? He returned to his lodge, painted his face as if he were going to battle, and
then went out to a grove near the place where the war-dances of the tribe were held. His braves
followed him; others joined them; all watched eagerly, knowing that the end was close at hand,
and wondering how he would die.

He laid aside his blanket, exposing his stripped body; and with his eagle plume, in his hair
and his stone tomahawk in his hand, began to dance the war-dance of his tribe and to chant
the song of the battles he had fought.

At first his utterance was broken and indistinct, his step feeble. But as he went on his voice
rang clearer and stronger; his step grew quicker and firmer. Half reciting, half chanting,
he continued the wild tale of blood, dancing faster and faster, haranguing louder and louder,
until he became a flame of barbaric excitement, until he leaped and whirled in the very madness
of raging passion,--the Indian war-frenzy.

But it could not last long. His breath came quick and short; his words grew inarticulate; his
eyes gleamed like coals of fire; his feet faltered in the dance. With a final effort he brandished
and flung his tomahawk, uttering as he did so a last war-cry, which thrilled all who heard
it as of old when he led them in battle. The tomahawk sunk to the head in a neighboring tree,
the handle breaking off short with the violence of the shock; and the chief fell back--dead.

Thus passed the soul of the fierce Mollalie. For years afterward, the tomahawk remained where
it had sunk in the tree, sole monument of Mishlah. His bones lay unburied beneath, wasted by
wind and rain, till there was left only a narrow strip of red earth, with the grass springing
rankly around it, to show where the body had been. And the few survivors of the tribe who lingered
in the valley were wont to point to the tomahawk imbedded in the tree, and tell the tale of
the warrior and how he died.

Why dwell longer on scenes so terrible? Besides, there is but little more to tell. The faithless
allies made a raid on the valley; but the shrouding atmosphere of smoke and the frightful rumors
they heard of the great plague appalled them, and they retreated. The pestilence protected
the Willamettes. The Black Death that the medicine-men saw sitting in Multnomah's place turned
back the tide of invasion better than the war-chief himself could have done.

Through the hot months of summer the mortality continued. The valley was swept as with the
besom of destruction, and the drama of a people's death was enacted with a thousand variations
of horror. When spring came, the invaders entered the valley once more. They found it deserted,
with the exception of a few wretched bands, sole survivors of a mighty race. They rode through
villages where the decaying mats hung in tatters from the half-bare skeleton-like wigwam poles,
where the ashes had been cold for months at the camp-fires; they rode by fisheries where spear
and net were rotting beside the canoe upon the beach. And the dead--the dead lay everywhere:
in the lodges, beside the fisheries, along the trail where they had been stricken down while
trying to escape,--everywhere were the ghastly and repulsive forms.

The spirit of the few survivors was broken, and they made little resistance to the invaders.
Mongrel bands from the interior and the coast settled in the valley after the lapse of years;
and, mixing with the surviving Willamettes, produced the degenerate race our own pioneers found
there at their coming. These hybrids were, within the memory of the white man, overrun and
conquered by the Yakimas, who subjugated all the Indians upon Wappatto Island and around the
mouth of the Willamette in the early part of the present century. Later on, the Yakimas were
driven back by the whites; so that there have been three conquests of the lower Willamette
Valley since the fall of the ancient race,--two Indian conquests before the white.

The once musical language of the Willamettes has degenerated into the uncouth Chinook, and
the blood of the ancient race flows mixed and debased in the veins of abject and squalid descendants;
but the story of the mighty bridge that once spanned the Columbia at the Cascades is still
told by the Oregon Indians. Mingled with much of fable, overlaid with myth and superstition,
it is nevertheless one of the historic legends of the Columbia, and as such will never be forgotten. 

Deste below throne had the figure of the sun, which I dare not say what was done, and also they
placed the moon and other packages of gods carved on sticks and stones, and create letores,
we have very certain, that neither in Jerusalem, Rome, or Persia, or in any part of the world,
no republic or king was collected in a place so rich in metals gold and silver and jewels as the
square of Cuzco, where these and other similar parties you were doing, because the packages were
removed from the Incas, their kings, already dead, each with appliance service and gold and silver
they had, say those who having been in good life and courageous, pious with the Indians, they
make grants generous, forgiving of insults; for to this such saints canonized by his blindness,
and served his bones, not understanding that the souls were burning in hell, and believed quest
in the sky. And do the same, was of some other dried apricots or any other nation, that for some
causes that were in their paganism, the also called saints. And they call this way of Ylla
canonized, which means body that was good in life [95], and other understandings, yllapa means
thunder or lightning, and so call the Indians to yllapa artillery shots, the noise that do
[96].

Then together the Inca and the grand priest with the courtiers of Cuzco and many people who came of
the districts, taking their gods put in thalamus, mocha, which is to make obeisance, what they
wore offering many gifts of gold statues and sheep small gold and
figures of women, all small, and many others [97] jewels.

                  *       *       *       *       *

I write these last lines on Sauvie's Island--the Wappatto of the Indians,--sitting upon the
bank of the river, beneath the gnarled and ancient cottonwood that still marks the spot where
the old Columbia trail led up from the water to the interior of the island. Stately and beautiful
are the far snow-peaks and the sweeping forests. The woods are rich in the colors of an Oregon
autumn. The white wappatto blooms along the marshes, its roots ungathered, the dusky hands
that once reaped the harvest long crumbled into dust. Blue and majestic in the sunlight flows
the Columbia, river of many names,--the Wauna and Wemath of the Indians, the St. Roque of the
Spaniards, the Oregon of poetry,--always vast and grand, always flowing placidly to the sea.
Steamboats of the present; batteaux of the fur traders; ships, Grey's and Vancouver's, of discovery;
Indian canoes of the old unknown time,--the stately river has seen them all come and go, and
yet holds its way past forest and promontory, still beautiful and unchanging. Generation after
generation, daring hunter, ardent discoverer, silent Indian,--all the shadowy peoples of the
past have sailed its waters as we sail them, have lived perplexed and haunted by mystery as
we live, have gone out into the Great Darkness with hearts full of wistful doubt and questioning,
as we go; and still the river holds its course, bright, beautiful, inscrutable. It stays; we
go. Is there anything beyond the darkness into which generation follows generation and race
follows race? Surely there is an after-life, where light and peace shall come to all who, however
defeated, have tried to be true and loyal; where the burden shall be lifted and the heartache
shall cease; where all the love and hope that slipped away from us here shall be given back
to us again, and given back forever.

Via crucis, via lucis.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  Variations in the spelling of the Molalla Indian tribe have been
  retained.

  Footnotes have been renumbered consecutively and placed at the end
  of each chapter.

  Illustrations have been moved where necessary so that they are not
  in the middle of a paragraph. With rapid vision Benina
reviewed the boxes of such shop, the different quarters of all households, into the pockets of
every well-dressed pedestrians, acquiring the certainty that none of those folds of missing
a hard life.

  Archaic and variable spelling has been preserved as printed in the
  original book except for the following changes:

    List of Illustrations: Multomah's changed to Multnomah's
    (Multnomah's Death-canoe)

    Page 137: that changed to than (No one knows this better than
    Multnomah.)

    Page 261: or changed to on (To the funeral pyre on mimaluse
    island.)

    Illustration facing page 264: Multomah's changed to Multnomah's
    (Multnomah's Death-canoe)

