The cascade here, as in mountains generally, is a never-failing source of life and variety.
Water, joyous, buoyant son of Nature, is calling to you, leaping, sparkling, mocking at you
between bushes, and singing as he goes down the dells. A thousand little pictures he makes
among the rocks as he goes; like the little sketch which I send you.

Then, the bizarre outline of the rocks; well does Goethe call them "the giant-snouted crags;"
and as the diligence winds slowly on, they seem to lean, and turn, and bend. Now they close
up like a wall in front, now open in piny and cloudy vistas: now they embrace the torrent in
their great, black arms; and now, flashing laughter and babbling defiance through rifted rocks
and uprooted pines, the torrent shoots past them, down into some fathomless abyss. These old
Alp mothers cannot hold their offspring back from abysses any better than poor earth mothers.

There are phases in nature which correspond to every phase of human thought and emotion; and
this stern, cloudy scenery answers to the melancholy fatalism of Greek tragedy, or the kindred
mournfulness of the Book of Job.

These dark channelled rocks, worn, as with eternal tears,--these traces, so evident of ancient
and vast desolations,--suggest the idea of boundless power and inexorable will, before whose
course the most vehement of human feelings are as the fine spray of the cataract.

  "For, surely, the mountain, falling, cometh to nought;
   The rock is remored out of his place;
   The waters wear the stones;
   Thou washest away the things that grow out of the earth,
   And thou destroyest the hopes of man;
   Thou prevailest against him, and he passeth;
   Thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away."

The sceptical inquirer into the mysteries of eternal things might here, if ever, feel the solemn
irony of Eliphaz the Temanite:--

  "Should a wise man utter vain knowledge?
   Should he reason with unprofitable talk?
   Or with speeches that can do no good?
   Art thou the first man that ever was born?
   Or wast thou made before the hills?"

There are some of my fellow-travellers, by the by, who, if they had been made before the hills,
would never have been much wiser. All through these solemn passages and gorges, they are discussing
hotels, champagne, wine, and cigars. I presume they would do the same thing at the gates of
the Celestial City, if they should accidentally find themselves there. It is one of the dark
providences that multitudes of this calibre of mind find leisure and means to come among these
scenes, while many to whom they would be an inspiration, in whose souls they would unseal ceaseless
fountains of beauty, are forever excluded by poverty and care.

At noon we stopped at Sallenches, famous for two things; first, as the spot where people get
dinner, and second, where they take the char, a carriage used when the road is too steep for
the diligence. Here S., who had been feeling ill all the morning, became too unwell to proceed,
so that we had to lie by an hour or two, and did not go on with the caravan. I sat down at
the room window to study and sketch a mountain that rose exactly opposite. I thought to myself,
"Now, would it be possible to give to one that had not seen it an idea of how this looks?"
Let me try if words can paint it. Right above the fiat roof of the houses on the opposite side
of the street rose this immense mountain wall. The lower tier seemed to be a turbulent swell
of pasture land, rolling into every imaginable shape; green billows and dells, rising higher
and higher in the air as you looked upward, dyed here and there in bright yellow streaks, by
the wild crocus, and spotted over with cattle. Dark clumps and belts of pine now and then rise
up among them; and scattered here and there in the heights, among green hollows, were cottages,
that looked about as big as hickory nuts.

Above all this region was still another, of black pines and crags; the pines going up, and
up, and up, till they looked no larger than pin feathers; and surmounting all, straight, castellated
turrets of rock, looking out of swathing bands of cloud. A narrow, dazzling line of snow crowned
the summit.

You see before you three distinct regions--of pasture, of pine, of bare, eternal sterility.
On inquiring the name of the mountain, I was told that it was the "Aiguille" something, I forget
what; but I discovered that almost all the peaks in this region of the Alps are called Aiguille,
(needle,) I suppose from the straight, sharp points that rise at their summits.

There is a bridge here in Sallenches, from which, in clear weather, one of the best views of
Mont Blanc can be obtained--so they tell us. To-day it is as much behind the veil, and as absolutely
a matter of faith as heaven itself. Looking in that direction you could not believe that there
ever had been, or could be, a mountain there. The concealing clouds look as gray, as cool,
and as absolutely unconscious of any world of glory behind them as our dull, cold, every-day
life does of a heaven, which is, perhaps, equally near us. As we were passing the bridge, however,
a gust of icy wind swept down the course of the river, whose chilly breath spoke of glaciers
and avalanches.

Our driver was one of those merry souls, to be found the world over, whose hearts yearn after
talk; and when I volunteered to share the outside seat with him, that I might see better, he
inquired anxiously if "mademoiselle understood French," that he might have the pleasure of
enlightening her on the localities. Of course mademoiselle could do no less than be exceedingly
grateful, since a peasant on his own ground is generally better informed than a philosopher
from elsewhere.

Our path lay along the banks of the Arve, a raving, brawling, turbulent stream of muddy water.
A wide belt of drifted, pebbly land, on either side of it, showed that at times the torrent
had a much wider sweep than at present.

In fact, my guide informed me that the Arve, like most other mountain streams, had many troublesome
and inconvenient personal habits, such as rising up all of a sudden, some night, and whisking
off houses, cattle, pine trees; in short, getting up sailing parties in such a promiscuous
manner that it is neither safe nor agreeable to live in his neighborhood. He showed me, from
time to time, the traces of such Kuhleborn pranks.

We were now descending rapidly through the valley of Chamouni, by a winding road, the scenery
becoming every moment more and more impressive. The path was so steep and so stony that our
guide was well enough contented to have us walk. I was glad to walk on alone; for the scenery
was so wonderful that human sympathy and communion seemed to be out of the question. The effect
of such scenery to our generally sleeping and drowsy souls, bound with the double chain of
earthliness and sin, is like the electric touch of the angel on Peter, bound and sleeping.
They make us realize that we were not only made to commune with God, but also what a God he
is with whom we may commune. We talk of poetry, we talk of painting, we go to the ends of the
earth to see the artists and great men of this world; but what a poet, what an artist is God!
Truly said Michael Angelo, "The true painting is only a copy of the divine perfections--a shadow
of his pencil."

I was sitting on a mossy trunk of an old pine, looking up admiringly on the wonderful heights
around me--crystal peaks sparkling over dark pine trees--shadowy, airy distances of mountain
heights, rising crystalline amid many-colored masses of cloud; while, looking out over my head
from green hollows, I saw the small cottages, so tiny, in their airy distance, that they seemed
scarcely bigger than a squirrel's nut, which he might have dropped in his passage. A pretty
Savoyard girl, I should think about fifteen years old, came up to me.

"Madame admires the mountains," she said.

I assented.

"Yes," she added, "strangers always admire our mountains."

"And don't you admire them?" said I, looking, I suppose, rather amused into her bright eyes.

"No," she said, laughing. "Strangers come from hundreds of miles to see them all the time;
but we peasants don't care for them, no more than the dust of the road."

I could but half believe the bright little puss when she said so; but there was a lumpish,
soggy fellow accompanying her, whose nature appeared to be sufficiently unleavened to make
almost any thing credible in the line of stupidity. In fact, it is one of the greatest drawbacks
to the pleasure with which one travels through this beautiful country, to see what kind of
human beings inhabit it. Here in the Alps, heaven above and earth beneath, tree, rock, water,
light and shadow, every form, and agent, and power of nature, seem to be exerting themselves
to produce a constant and changing poem and romance; every thing is grand, noble, free, and
yet beautiful: in all these regions there is nothing so repulsive as a human dwelling.

A little further on we stopped at a village to refresh the horses. The auberge where we stopped
was built like a great barn, with an earth floor, desolate and comfortless. The people looked
poor and ground down, as if they had not a thought above the coarsest animal wants. The dirty
children, with their hair tangled beyond all hope of combing, had the begging whine, and the
trick of raising their hands for money, when one looked at them, which is universal in the
Catholic parts of Switzerland. Indeed, all the way from the Sardinian frontier we had been
dogged by beggars continually. Parents seemed to look upon their children as valuable only
for this purpose; the very baby in arms is taught to make a pitiful little whine, and put out
its fat hand, if your eye rests on it. The fact is, they are poor--poor because invention,
enterprise, and intellectual vigor--all that surrounds the New England mountain farmer with
competence and comfort--are quenched and dead, by the combined influence of a religion and
government whose interest it is to keep people stupid that they may be manageable. Yet the
Savoyards, as a race, it seems to me, are naturally intelligent; and I cannot but hope that
the liberal course lately adopted by the Sardinian government may at last reach them. My heart
yearns over many of the bright, pretty children, whose little hands have been up, from time
to time, around our carriage. I could not help thinking what good schools and good instruction
might do for them. It is not their fault, poor little things, that they are educated to whine
and beg, and grow up rude, uncultured, to bring forth another set of children just like themselves;
but what to do with them is the question. One generally begins with giving money; but a day
or two of experience shows that it would be just about as hopeful to feed the locusts of Egypt
on a loaf of bread. But it is hard to refuse children, especially to a mother who has left
five or six at home, and who fancies she sees, in some of these little eager, childish faces,
something now and then that reminds her of her own. For my part, I got schooled so that I could
stand them all, except the little toddling three-year olds--they fairly overcame me. So I supplied
my pocket with a quantity of sugar lozenges, for the relief of my own mind. I usually found
the little fellows looked exceedingly delighted when they discovered the nature of the coin.
Children are unsophisticated, and like sugar better than silver, any day.

In this auberge was a little chamois kid, of which fact we were duly apprised, when we got
out, by a board put up, which said, "Here one can see a live chamois." The little live representative
of chamoisdom came skipping out with the most amiable unconsciousness, and went through his
paces for our entertainment with as much propriety as a New England child says his catechism.
He hopped up on a table after some green leaves, which were then economically used to make
him hop down again. The same illusive prospect was used to make him jump over a stick, and
perform a number of other evolutions. I could not but admire the sweetness of temper with which
he took all this tantalizing, and the innocence with which he chewed his cabbage leaf after
he got it, not harboring a single revengeful thought at us for the trouble we had given him.
Of course the issue of the matter was, that we all paid a few sous for the sight--not to the
chamois, which would have been the most equitable way, but to those who had appropriated his
gifts and graces to eke out their own convenience.

"Where's his mother?" said I, desiring to enlarge my sphere of natural history as much as possible.

"On a tue sa mere"--"They have killed his mother," was the reply, cool enough.

There we had the whole story. His enterprising neighbors had invaded the domestic hearth, shot
his mother, and eaten her up, made her skin into chamois leather, and were keeping him till
he got big enough for the same disposition, using his talents meanwhile to turn a penny upon;
yet not a word of all this thought he; not a bit the less heartily did he caper; never speculated
a minute on why it was, on the origin of evil, or any thing of the sort; or, if he did, at
least never said a word about it. I gave one good look into his soft, round, glassy eyes, and
could see nothing there but the most tranquil contentment. He had finished his cabbage leaf,
and we had finished our call; so we will go on.

It was now drawing towards evening, and the air began to be sensibly and piercingly cold. One
effect of this mountain air on myself is, to bring on the most acute headache that I ever recollect
to have felt. Still, the increasing glory and magnificence of the scenery overcame bodily fatigue.
Mont Blanc, and his army of white-robed brethren, rose before us in the distance, glorious
as the four and twenty elders around the great white throne. The wonderful gradations of coloring
in this Alpine landscape are not among the least of its charms. How can I describe it? Imagine
yourself standing with me on this projecting rock, overlooking a deep, piny gorge, through
which flow the brawling waters of the Arve. On the other side of this rise mountains whose
heaving swells of velvet green, cliffs and dark pines, are fully made out and colored; behind
this mountain, rises another, whose greens are softened and shaded, and seem to be seen through
a purplish veil; behind that rises another, of a decided cloud-like purple; and in the next
still the purple tint changes to rosy lilac; while above all, like another world up in the
sky, mingling its tints with the passing clouds, sometimes obscured by them, and then breaking
out between them, lie the glacier regions. These glaciers, in the setting sun, look like rivers
of light pouring down from the clouds. Such was the scene, which I remember with perfect distinctness
as enchaining my attention on one point of the road.

We had now got up to the valley of Chamouni. I looked before me, and saw, lying in the lap
of the green valley, a gigantic pile of icy pillars, which, seen through the trees, at first
suggested the idea of a cascade.

"What is that?" said I to the guide.

"The Glacier de Boisson."

I may as well stop here, and explain to you, once for all, what a glacier is. You see before
you, as in this case, say thirty or forty mountain peaks, and between these peaks what seem
to you frozen rivers. The snow from time to time melting, and dripping down the sides of the
mountain, and congealing in the elevated hollows between the peaks, forms a half-fluid mass--a
river of ice--which is called a glacier.

As it lies upon the slanting surface, and is not entirely solid throughout, the whole mass
is continually pushing, with a gradual but imperceptible motion, down into the valleys below.

At a distance these glaciers, as I have said before, look like frozen rivers; when one approaches
nearer, or where they press downward into the valley, like this Glacier de Boisson, they look
like immense crystals and pillars of ice piled together in every conceivable form. The effect
of this pile of ice, lying directly in the lap of green grass and flowers, is quite singular.
The village of Chamouni itself has nothing in particular to recommend it. The buildings and
every thing about it have a rough, coarse appearance. Before we had entered the valley this
evening the sun had gone down; the sky behind the mountains was clear, and it seemed for a
few moments as if darkness was rapidly coming on. On our right hand were black, jagged, furrowed
walls of mountain, and on our left Mont Blanc, with his fields of glaciers and worlds of snow;
they seemed to hem us in, and almost press us down. But in a few moments commenced a scene
of transfiguration, more glorious than any thing I had witnessed yet. The cold, white, dismal
fields of ice gradually changed into hues of the most beautiful rose color. A bank of white
clouds, which rested above the mountains, kindled and glowed, as if some spirit of light had
entered into them. You did not lose your idea of the dazzling, spiritual whiteness of the snow,
yet you seemed to see it through a rosy veil. The sharp edges of the glaciers, and the hollows
between the peaks, reflected wavering tints of lilac and purple. The effect was solemn and
spiritual above every thing I have ever seen.

In this dazzling revelation I saw not that cold, distant, unfeeling fate, or that crushing
regularity of power and wisdom, which was all the ancient Greek or modern Deist can behold
in God; but I beheld, as it were, crowned and glorified, one who had loved with our loves,
and suffered with our sufferings. Those shining snows were as his garments on the Mount of
Transfiguration, and that serene and ineffable atmosphere of tenderness and beauty, which seemed
to change these dreary deserts into worlds of heavenly light, was to me an image of the light
shed by his eternal love on the sins and sorrows of time, and the dread abyss of eternity.

LETTER XXXIII.

MY DEAR:--

Well, I waked up this morning, and the first thought was, "Here I am in the valley of Chamouni,
right under the shadow of Mont Blanc, that I have studied about in childhood and found on the
atlas." I sprang up, and ran to the window, to see if it was really there where I left it last
night. Yes, true enough, there it was! right over our heads, as it were, blocking up our very
existence; filling our minds with its presence; that colossal pyramid of dazzling snow! Its
lower parts concealed by the roofs, only the three rounded domes of the summit cut their forms
with icy distinctness on the intense blue of the sky!

On the evening before I had taken my last look at about nine o'clock, and had mentally resolved
to go out before daybreak and repeat Coleridge's celebrated hymn; but I advise any one who
has any such liturgic designs to execute them over night, for after a day of climbing one acquires
an aptitude for sleep that interferes with early rising. When I left last evening its countenance
was "filled with rosy light," and they tell us, that hours before it is daylight in the valley
this mountain top breaks into brightness, like that pillar of fire which enlightened the darkness
of the Israelites.

I rejoice every hour that I am among these scenes in my familiarity with the language of the
Bible. In it alone can I find vocabulary and images to express what this world of wonders excites.
But as straws, chips, and seaweed play in a thousand fantastic figures on the face of the ocean,
sometimes even concealing the solemn depths beneath, so the prose of daily existence mixes
itself up with the solemn poetry of life, here as elsewhere.

You must have a breakfast, and then you cannot rush out and up Mont Blanc ad libitum; you must
go up in the regular appointed way, with mule and guides. This matter of guides is perfectly
systematized here; for, the mountains being the great overpowering fact of life, it follows
that all that enterprise and talent which in other places develop themselves in various forms,
here take the single channel of climbing mountains. In America, if a man is a genius he strikes
out a new way of cleaning cotton; but in Chamouni, if he is a genius he finds a new way of
going up Mont Blanc.

As a sailor knows every timber, rope, and spar of his ship, and seems to identify his existence
with her, so these guides their mountains. The mountains are their calendar, their book, their
newspaper, their cabinet, herbarium, barometer, their education, and their livelihood.

In fine, behold us about eight o'clock, C., S., W., little G., and self, in all the bustle
of fitting out in the front of our hotel. Two guides, Balmat and Alexandre, lead two mules,
long-eared, slow-footed, considerate brutes, who have borne a thousand ladies over a thousand
pokerish places, and are ready to bear a thousand more. Equipped with low-backed saddles, they
stand, their noses down, their eyes contemplatively closed, their whole appearance impressing
one with an air of practical talent and reliableness. Your mule is evidently safe and stupid
as any conservative of any country; you may be sure that no erratic fires, no new influx of
ideas will ever lead him to desert the good old paths, and tumble you down precipices. The
harness they wear is so exceedingly ancient, and has such a dilapidated appearance, as if held
together only by the merest accident, that I could not but express a little alarm on mounting.

"Those girths--won't they break?"

"O, no, no, mademoiselle!" said the guides. In fact, they seem so delighted with their arrangements,
that I swallow my doubts in silence. A third mule being added for the joint use of the gentlemen,
and all being equipped with iron-pointed poles, off we start in high spirits.

A glorious day; air clear as crystal, sky with as fixed a blue as if it could not think a cloud;
guides congratulate us, "Qu'il fait tres beau!" We pass the lanes of the village, our heads
almost on a level with the flat stone-laden roofs; our mules, with their long rolling pace,
like the waves of the sea, give to their riders a facetious wag of the body that is quite striking.
Now the village is passed, and see, a road banded with green ribands of turf. S.'s mule and
guide pass on, and head the party. G. rides another mule. C. and W. leap along trying their
alpenstocks; stopping once in a while to admire the glaciers, as their brilliant forms appear
through the pines.

Here a discussion commences as to where we are going. We had agreed among ourselves that we
would visit the Mer de Glace. We fully meant to go there, and had so told the guide on starting;
but it appears he had other views for us. There is a regular way of seeing things, orthodox
and appointed; and to get sight of any thing in the wrong way would be as bad as to get well
without a scientific physician, or any other irregular piece of proceeding.

It appeared from the representations of the guide that to visit Mer de Glace before we had
seen La Flegere, would no more answer than for Jacob to marry Rachel before he had married
Leah. Determined not to yield, as we were, we somehow found ourselves vanquished by our guide's
arguments, and soberly going off his way instead of ours, doing exactly what we had resolved
not to do. However, the point being yielded we proceeded merrily.

As we had some way, however, to trot along the valley before we came to the ascending place,
I improved the opportunity to cultivate a little the acquaintance of my guide. He was a tall,
spare man, with black eyes, black hair, and features expressive of shrewdness, energy, and
determination. Either from paralysis, or some other cause, he was subject to a spasmodic twitching
of the features, producing very much the effect that heat lightning does in the summer sky--it
seemed to flash over his face and be gone in a wink; at first this looked to me very odd, but
so much do our ideas depend on association, that after I had known him for some time, I really
thought that I liked him better with, than I should without it. It seemed to give originality
to the expression of his face; he was such a good, fatherly man, and took such excellent care
of me and the mule, and showed so much intelligence and dignity in his conversation, that I
could do no less than like him, heat lightning and all.

This valley of Chamouni, through which we are winding now, is every where as flat as a parlor
floor. These valleys in the Alps seem to have this peculiarity--they are not hollows, bending
downward in the middle, and imperceptibly sloping upward into the mountains, but they lie perfectly
flat. The mountains rise up around them like walls almost perpendicularly.

"Voila!" says my guide, pointing to the left, to a great, bare ravine, "down there came an
avalanche, and knocked down those houses and killed several people."

"Ah!" said I; "but don't avalanches generally come in the same places every year?"

"Generally, they do."

"Why do people build houses in the way of them?" said I.

"Ah! this was an unusual avalanche, this one here."

"Do the avalanches ever bring rocks with them?"

"No, not often; nothing but snow."

"There!" says my guide, pointing to an object about as big as a good-sized fly, on the side
of a distant mountain, "there's the auberge, on La Flegere, where we are going."

"Up there?" say I, looking up apprehensively, and querying in my mind how my estimable friend
the mule is ever to get up there with me on his back.

"O yes," says my guide, cheerily, "and the road is up through that ravine."

The ravine is a charming specimen of a road to be sure, but no matter--on we go.

"There," says a guide, "those black rocks in the middle of that glacier on Mont Blanc are the
Grands Mulets, where travellers sleep going up Mont Blanc."

We wind now among the pine tree still we come almost under the Mer de Glace. A most fairy-like
cascade falls down from under its pillars of ice over the dark rocks,--a cloud of feathery
foam,--and then streams into the valley below.

"Voila, L'Arveiron!" says the guide.

"O, is that the Arveiron?" say I; "happy to make the acquaintance."

But now we cross the Arve into a grove of pines, and direct our way to the ascent. We begin
to thread a zigzag path on the sides of the mountain.

As mules are most determined followers of precedent, every one keeps his nose close by the
heels of his predecessor. The delicate point, therefore, of the whole operation is keeping
the first mule straight. The first mule in our party, who rejoiced in the name of Rousse, was
selected to head the caravan, perhaps because he had more native originality than most mules,
and was therefore better fitted to lead than to follow. A troublesome beast was he, from a
habit of abstract meditation which was always liable to come on him in most inconvenient localities.
Every now and then, simply in accordance with his own sovereign will and pleasure, and without
consulting those behind him, he would stop short and descend into himself in gloomy revery,
not that he seemed to have any thing in particular on his mind,--at least nothing of the sort
escaped his lips,--but the idea would seem to strike him all of a sudden that he was an ill-used
beast, and that he'd be hanged if he went another step. Now, as his stopping stopped all the
rest, wheresoever they might happen to be, it often occurred that we were detained in most
critical localities, just on the very verge of some tremendous precipice, or up a rocky stairway.
In vain did the foremost driver admonish him by thumping his nose with a sharp stick, and tugging
and pulling upon the bridle. Rousse was gifted with one of those long, India rubber necks that
can stretch out indefinitely, so that the utmost pulling and jerking only took his head along
a little farther, but left his heels planted exactly here they were before, somewhat after
this fashion. His eyes, meanwhile, devoutly closed, with an air of meekness overspreading his
visage, he might have stood as an emblem of conscientious obstinacy.

The fact is, that in ascending these mountains there is just enough danger to make one's nerves
a little unsteady; not by any means as much as on board a rail car at home; still it comes
to you in a more demonstrable form. Here you are, for instance, on a precipice two thousand
feet deep; pine trees, which, when you passed them at the foot you saw were a hundred feet
high, have dwindled to the size of pins. No barrier of any kind protects the dizzy edge, and
your mule is particularly conscientious to stand on the very verge, no matter how wide the
path may be. Now, under such circumstances, though your guide assures you that an accident
or a person killed is a thing unknown, you cannot help seeing that if the saddle should turn,
or the girths break, or a bit of the crumbling edge cave away--all which things appear quite
possible--all would be over with you. Yet I suppose we are no more really dependent upon God's
providence in such circumstances, than in many cases where we think ourselves most secure.
Still the thrill of this sensation is not without its pleasure, especially with such an image
of almighty power and glory constantly before one's eyes as Mont Blanc. Our own littleness
and helplessness, in view of these vast objects which surround us, give a strong and pathetic
force to the words, "The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath thee are the everlasting arms."

I like best these snow-pure glaciers seen through these black pines; there is something mysterious
about them when you thus catch glimpses, and see not the earthly base on which they rest. I
recollect the same fact in seeing the Cataract of Niagara through trees, where merely the dizzying
fall of water was visible, with its foam, and spray, and rainbows; it produced an idea of something
supernatural.

I forgot to say that at the foot of the mountain a party of girls started to ascend with us,
carrying along bottles of milk and small saucers full of mountain strawberries. About half
way up the ascent we halted by a spring of water which gushed from the side of the mountain,
and there we found the advantage of these arrangements. The milk is very nice, almost as rich
as cream. I think they told me it was goat's milk. The strawberries are very small indeed,
like our field strawberries, but not as good. One devours them with great relish, simply because
the keen air of the mountain disposes one to eat something, and there is nothing better to
be had. They were hearty, rosy-looking girls, cheerful and obliging, wore the flat, Swiss hat,
and carried their knitting work along with them, and knit whenever they could.

When you asked them the price of their wares they always said, "Au plaisir" i. e., whatever
you please; but when we came to offer them money, we found "au plaisir" meant so much at any
rate, and as much more as they could get.

There were some children who straggled up with the party, who offered us flowers and crystals
"au plaisir" to about the same intent and purpose. This cortege of people, wanting to sell
you something, accompanies you every where in the Alps. The guides generally look upon it with
complacency, and in a quiet way favor it. I suppose that the fact was, these were neighbors
and acquaintances, and the mutual understanding was, that they should help each other.

It was about twelve o'clock, when we gained a bare board shanty as near the top of La Flegere
as it is possible to go on mules.

It is rather a discouraging reflection that one should travel three or four hours to get to
such a desolate place as these mountain tops generally are; nothing but grass, rocks, and snow;
a shanty, with a show case full of minerals, articles of carved wood, and engravings of the
place for sale. In these show cases the Alps are brought to market as thoroughly as human ingenuity
can do the thing. The chamois figures largely; there are pouches made of chamois skin, walking
sticks and alpenstocks tipped with chamois horn; sometimes an entire skin, horns and all, hanging
disconsolately downward. Then all manner of crystals, such as are found in the rocks, are served
up--agate pins, rings, seals, bracelets, cups, and snuffboxes--all which are duly urged on
your attention; so, instead of falling into a rapture at the sight of Mont Blanc, the regular
routine for a Yankee is to begin a bargain for a walking stick or a snuffbox.

There is another curious fact, and that is, that every prospect loses by being made definite.
As long as we only see a thing by glimpses, and imagine that there is a deal more that we do
not see, the mind is kept in a constant excitement and play; but come to a point where you
can fairly and squarely take in the whole, and there your mind falls listless. It is the greatest
proof to me of the infinite nature of our minds, that we almost instantly undervalue what we
have thoroughly attained. This sensation afflicted me, for I had been reining in my enthusiasm
for two days, as rather premature, and keeping myself in reserve for this ultimate display.
But now I stood there, no longer seeing by glimpses, no longer catching rapturous intimations
as I turned angles of rock, or glanced through windows of pine--here it was, all spread out
before me like a map, not a cloud, not a shadow to soften the outline--there was Mont Blanc,
a great alabaster pyramid, with a glacier running down each side of it; there was the Arve,
and there was the Arveiron, names most magical in song, but now literal geographic realities.

But in full possession of the whole my mind gave out like a rocket that will not go off at
the critical moment. I remember, once after finishing a very circumstantial treatise on the
nature of heaven, being oppressed with a similar sensation of satiety,--that which hath not
entered the heart of man to conceive must not be mapped out,-- hence the wisdom of the dim,
indefinite imagery of the Scriptures; they give you no hard outline, no definite limit; occasionally
they part as do the clouds around these mountains, giving you flashes and gleams of something
supernatural and splendid, but never fully unveiling.

But La Flegerc is doubtless the best point for getting a statistically accurate idea of how
the Alps lie, of any easily accessible to ladies. This print you may regard more as a chart
than as a picture.

Our guide pointed out every feature with praiseworthy accuracy. Midmost is Mont Blanc; on the
right the Glacier de Boisson. Two or three little black peaks' in it are the sleeping-place
for travellers ascending--the zigzag line shows their path. On the left of the mountain lies
Mer de Glace, with the Arveiron falling from it. The Arve crosses the valley below us; the
fall is not indicated in this view. The undulations, which, on near view, are fifty feet high,
seem mere ripples. Its purity is much soiled by the dust and debris which are constantly blown
upon it, making it look in some places more like mud than ice. Its soiled masses contrast with
the dazzling whiteness of the upper regions, just as human virtue exposed to the wind and dust
of earth, with the spotless purity of Jesus.

These mulets, which at this distance appear like black points, are needle cliffs rising in
a desert of snow, thus--

Coming down I mentally compared Mont Blanc and Niagara, as one should compare two grand pictures
in different styles of the same master. Both are of that class of things which mark eras in
a mind's history, and open a new door which no man can shut. Of the two, I think Niagara is
the most impressive, perhaps because those aerial elements of foam and spray give that vague
and dreamy indefiniteness of outline which seems essential in the sublime. For this reason,
while Niagara is equally impressive in the distance, it does not lose on the nearest approach--it
is always mysterious, and, therefore, stimulating. Those varying spray wreaths, rising like
Ossian's ghosts from its abyss; those shimmering rainbows, through whose veil you look; those
dizzying falls of water that seem like clouds poured from the hollow of God's hand; and that
mystic undertone of sound that seems to pervade the whole being as the voice of the Almighty,--all
these bewilder and enchant the discriminative and prosaic part of us, and bring us into that
cloudy region of ecstasy where the soul comes nearest to Him whom no eye hath seen, or can
see. I have sometimes asked myself if, in the countless ages of the future, the heirs of God
shall ever be endowed by him with a creative power, by which they shall bring into being things
like these? In this infancy of his existence, man creates pictures, statues, cathedrals; but
when he is made "ruler over many things," will his Father intrust to him the building and adorning
of worlds? the ruling of the glorious, dazzling forces of nature?

At the foot of the mountain we found again our company of strawberry girls, with knitting work
and goat's milk, lying in wait for us. They knew we should be thirsty and hungry, and wisely
turned the circumstance to account. Some of our party would not buy of them, because they said
they were sharpers, trying to get all they could out of people; but if every body who tries
to do this is to be called a sharper, what is to become of respectable society, I wonder?

On the strength of this reflection, I bought some more goat's milk and strawberries, and verily
found them excellent; for, as Shakspeare says, "How many things by season seasoned are."

We returned to our hotel, and after dining and taking a long nap, I began to feel fresh once
more, for the air here acts like an elixir, so that one is able to do twice as much as any
where else. S. was too much overcome to go with us, but the rest of us started with our guides
once more at five o'clock. This time we were to visit the Cascade des Pelerins, which comes
next on the orthodox list of places to be seen.

It was a lovely afternoon; the sun had got over the Mont Blanc side of the world, and threw
the broad, cool shadow of the mountains quite across the valley. What a curious kind of thing
shadow is,--that invisible veil, falling so evenly and so lightly over all things, bringing
with it such thoughts of calmness, of coolness, and of rest. I wonder the old Greeks did not
build temples to Shadow, and call her the sister of Thought and Peace. The Hebrew writers speak
of the "overshadowing of the Almighty;" they call his protection "the shadow of a great rock
in a weary land." Even as the shadow of Mont Blanc falls like a Sabbath across this valley,
so falls the sense of his presence across our weary life-road!

As we rode along under the sides of the mountain every thing seemed so beautiful, so thoughtful,
and so calm! All the goats and cows were in motion along the mountain paths, each one tinkling
his little bell and filling the rocks with gentle melodies. You can trace the lines of these
cattle paths, running like threads all along the sides of the mountains. We went in the same
road that we had gone in the morning. How different it seemed, in the soberness of this afternoon
light, from its aspect under the clear, crisp, sharp light of morning!

We pass again through the pine woods in the valley, and cross the Arve; then up the mountain
side to where a tiny cascade throws up its feathery spray in a brilliant jet d'eau. Every body
knows, even in our sober New England, that mountain brooks are a frisky, indiscreet set, rattling,
chattering, and capering in defiance of all law and order, tumbling over precipices, and picking
themselves up at the bottom, no whit wiser or more disposed to be tranquil than they were at
the top; in fact, seeming to grow more mad and frolicsome with every leap. Well, that is just
the way brooks do here in the Alps, and the people, taking advantage of it, have built a little
shanty, where they show up the capers of this child of the mountain, as if he tumbled for their
special profit. Here, of course, in the shanty are the agates, and the carved work, and so
forth, and so on, and you must buy something for a souvenir.

I sat down on the rocks to take, not a sketch,--for who can sketch a mountain torrent?--but
to note down on paper a kind of diagram, from which afterwards I might reconstruct an image
of this feathery, frisky son of Kuhleborn.

And while I was doing this, little G. seemed to be possessed by the spirit of the brook to
caper down into the ravine, with a series of leaps far safer for a waterfall than a boy. I
was thankful when I saw him safely at the bottom.

After sketching a little while, I rambled off to a point where I looked over towards Mont Blanc,
and got a most beautiful view of the Glacier de Boisson. Imagine the sky flushed with a rosy
light, a background of purple mountains, with darts of sunlight streaming among them, touching
point and cliff with gold. Against this background rises the outline of the glacier like a
mountain of the clearest white crystals, tinged with blue; and against their snowy whiteness
in the foreground tall forms of pines. I rejoiced in the picture with exceeding joy as long
as the guide would let me; but in all these places you have to cut short your raptures at the
proper season, or else what becomes of your supper?

I went back to the cottage. A rosy-cheeked girl had held our mules, and set a chair for us
to get off, and now brings them up with "Au plaisir, messieurs" to the bearers of our purse.
Half a dozen children had been waiting with the rose des Alps, which they wanted to sell us
"au plaisir" but which we did not buy.

These continual demands on the purse look very alarming, only the coin you pay in is of such
infinitesimal value that it takes about a pocket full to make a cent. Such a currency is always
a sign of poverty.

We had a charming ride down the mountain side, in the glow of the twilight. We passed through
a whole flock of goats which the children were driving home. One dear little sturdy Savoyard
looked so like a certain little Charley at home that I felt quite a going forth of soul to
him. As we rode on, I thought I would willingly live and die in such a place; but I shall see
a hundred such before we leave the Alps.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

Thursday, July 7. Weather still celestial, as yesterday. But lo, these frail tabernacles betray
their earthliness. H. remarked at breakfast that all the "tired" of yesterday was piled up
into to-day. And S. actually pleaded inability, and determined to remain at the hotel.

However, the Mer de Glace must be seen; so, at seven William, Georgy, H., and I, set off. When
about half way or more up the mountain we crossed the track of the avalanches, a strip or trail,
which looks from beneath like a mower's swath through a field of tall grass. It is a clean
path, about fifty rods wide, without trees, with few rocks, smooth and steep, and with a bottom
of ice covered with gravel.

"Hurrah, William," said I, "let's have an avalanche!"

"Agreed," said he; "there's a big rock."

"Monsieur le Guide, Monsieur le Guide!" I shouted, "stop a moment. H., stop; we want you to
see our avalanche."

"No," cried H., "I will not. Here you ask me to stop, right on the edge of this precipice,
to see you roll down a stone!"

So, on she ambled. Meanwhile William and I were already on foot, and our mules were led on
by the guide's daughter, a pretty little lass of ten or twelve, who accompanied us in the capacity
of mule driver.

We found several stones of inferior size, and sent them plunging down. At last, however, we
found one that weighed some two tons, which happened to lie so that, by loosening the earth
before and under it with our alpenstocks, we were able to dislodge it. Slowly, reluctantly,
as if conscious of the awful race it was about to take, the huge mass trembled, slid, poised,
and, with a crunch and a groan, went over. At the first plunge it acquired a heavy revolving
motion, and was soon whirling and dashing down, bounding into the air with prodigious leaps,
and cutting a white and flashing path into the icy way. Then first I began to realize the awful
height at which we stood above the plain. Tracts, which looked as though we could almost step
across them, were reached by this terrible stone, moving with frightful velocity; and bound
after bound, plunge after plunge it made, and we held our breath to see each tract lengthen
out, as if seconds grew into minutes, inches into rods; and still the mass moved on, and the
microscopic way lengthened out, till at last a curve hid its further progress from our view.

What other cliffs we might have toppled over the muse refuses to tell; for our faithful guide
returned to say that it was not quite safe; that there were always shepherds and flocks in
the valley, and that they might be injured. So we remounted, and soon overtook H. at a fountain,
sketching a pine tree of special physiognomy.

"Ah," said I, "H., how foolish you were! You don't know what a sight you have lost."

"Yes," said she, "all C. thinks mountains are made for is to roll stones down."

"And all H. thinks trees made for," said I, "is to have ugly pictures made of them."

"Ay," she replied, "you wanted me to stand on the very verge of the precipice, and see two
foolish boys roll down stones, and perhaps make an avalanche of themselves! Now, you know,
C., I could not spare you; first, because I have not learned French enough yet; and next, because
I don't know how to make change."

"Add to that," said I, "the damages to the bergers and flocks."

"Yes," she added; "no doubt when we get back to the inn we shall have a bill sent in, 'H. B.
S. to A. B., Dr., to one shepherd and six cows, --fr.'"

And so we chatted along until we reached the auberge, and, after resting a few moments, descended
into the frozen sea.

Here a scene opened upon us never to be forgotten. From the distant gorge of the everlasting
Alpine ranges issued forth an ocean tide, in wild and dashing commotion, just as we have seen
the waves upon the broad Atlantic, but all motionless as chaos when smitten by the mace of
Death; and yet, not motionless! This denser medium, this motionless mass, is never at rest.
This flood moves as it seems to move; these waves are actually uplifting out of the abyss as
they seem to lift; the only difference is in the time of motion, the rate of change.

These prodigious blocks of granite, thirty or forty feet long and twenty feet thick, which
float on this grim sea of ice, do float, and are drifting, drifting down to the valley below,
where, in a few days, they must arrive.

We walked these valleys, ascended these hills, leaped across chasms, threw stones down the
crevasses, plunged our alpenstocks into the deep baths of green water, and philosophized and
poetized till we were tired. Then we returned to the auberge, and rode down the zigzag to our
hotel.

LETTER XXXIV.

MY DEAR:--

The Mer de Glace is exactly opposite to La Flegere, where we were yesterday, and is reached
by the ascent of what is called Montanvert, or Green Mountain. The path is much worse than
the other, and in some places makes one's nerves twinge, especially that from which C. projected
his avalanche. Just think of his wanting to stop me on the edge of a little shelf over that
frightful chasm, and take away the guide from the head of my mule to help him get up avalanches!

I warn you, if ever you visit the Alps, that a travelling companion who has not the slightest
idea what fear is will give you many a commotion. For instance, this Mer de Glace is traversed
every where by crevasses in the ice, which go to--nobody knows where, down into the under world--great,
gaping, blue-green mouths of Hades; and C. must needs jump across them, and climb down into
them, to the mingled delight and apprehension of the guide, who, after conscientiously shouting
out a reproof, would say to me, in a lower tone, "Ah, he's the man to climb Mont Blanc; he
would do well for that!"

The fact is, nothing would suit our guides better, this clear, bright weather, than to make
up a party for the top of Mont Blanc. They look longingly and lovingly up to its clear, white
fields; they show us the stages and resting-places, and seem really to think that it is a waste
of this beautiful weather not to be putting it to that most sublime purpose.

Why, then, do not we go up? you say. As to us ladies, it is a thing that has been done by only
two women since the world stood, and those very different in their physique from any we are
likely to raise in America, unless we mend our manners very much. These two were a peasant
woman of Chamouni, called Marie de Mont Blanc, and Mademoiselle Henriette d'Angeville, a lady
whose acquaintance I made in Geneva. Then, as to the gentlemen, it is a serious consideration,
in the first place, that the affair costs about one hundred and fifty dollars apiece, takes
two days of time, uses up a week's strength, all to get an experience of some very disagreeable
sensations, which could not afflict a man in any other case. It is no wonder, then, that gentlemen
look up to the mountain, lay their hands on their pockets, and say, No.

Our guide, by the way, is the son, or grandson, of the very first man that ascended Mont Blanc,
and of course feels a sort of hereditary property and pride in it.

C. spoke about throwing our poles down the pools of water in the ice.

There is something rather curious about these pools. Our guide saw us measuring the depth of
one of them, which was full of greenish-blue water, colored only by the refraction of the light.
He took our long alpenstock, and poising it, sent it down into the water, as a man might throw
a javelin. It disappeared, but in a few seconds leaped up at us out of the water, as if thrown
back again by an invisible hand.

A poet would say that a water spirit hurled it back; perhaps some old under-ground gnome, just
going to dinner, had his windows smashed by it, and sent it back with a becoming spirit, as
a gnome should.

It was a sultry day, and the sun was exercising his power over the whole ice field. I sat down
by a great ice block, about fifty feet long, to interrogate it, and see what I could make of
it, by a cool, confidential proximity and examination. The ice was porous and spongy, as I
have seen it on the shores of the Connecticut, when beginning to thaw out under the influence
of a spring sun. I could see the little drops of water percolating in a thousand tiny streams
through it, and dropping down on every side. Putting my ear to it, I could hear a fine musical
trill and trickle, and that still small click and stir, as of melting ice, which showed that
it was surely and gradually giving way, and flowing back again.

Drop by drop the cold iceberg was changing into a stream, to flow down the sides of the valley,
no longer an image of coldness and death, but bearing fertility and beauty on its tide. And
as I looked abroad over all the rifted field of ice, I could see that the same change was gradually
going on throughout. In every blue ravine you can hear the clink of dropping water, and those
great defiant blocks of ice, which seem frozen with uplifted warlike hands, are all softening
in that beneficent light, and destined to pass away in that benignant change. So let us hope
that those institutions of pride and cruelty, which are colder than the glacier, and equally
vast and hopeless in their apparent magnitude, may yet, like that, be slowly and surely passing
away. Like the silent warfare of the sun on the glacier, is that overshadowing presence of
Jesus, whose power, so still, yet so resistless, is now being felt through all the moving earth.

Those defiant waves of death-cold ice might as well hope to conquer the calm, silent sun, as
the old, frozen institutions of human selfishness to resist the influence which he is now breathing
through the human heart, to liberate the captive, to free the slave, and to turn the ice of
long winters into rivers of life for the new heaven and the new earth.

All this we know is coming, but we long to see it now, and breathe forth our desires with the
Hebrew prophet, "O that thou wouldst rend the heavens, that thou wouldst come down, that the
mountains might flow down at thy presence."

I had, while upon this field of ice, that strange feeling which often comes over one, at the
sight of a thing unusually beautiful and sublime, of wanting, in some way, to appropriate and
make it a part of myself. I looked up the gorge, and saw this frozen river, lying cradled,
as it were, in the arms of needle-peaked giants of amethystine rock, their tops laced with
flying silvery clouds. The whole air seemed to be surcharged with tints, ranging between the
palest rose and the deepest violet--tints never without blue, and never without red, but varying
in the degrees of the two. It is this prismatic hue diffused over every object which gives
one of the most noticeable characteristics of the Alpine landscape.

This sea of ice lies on an inclined plane, and all the blocks have a general downward curve.

I told you yesterday that the lower part of the glacier, as seen from La Flegere, appeared
covered with dirt. I saw to-day the reason for this. Although it was a sultry day in July,
yet around the glacier a continual high wind was blowing, whirling the dust and debris of the
sides upon it. Some of the great masses of ice were so completely coated with sand as to appear
at a distance like granite rocks. The effect of some of these immense brown masses was very
peculiar. They seemed like an army of giants, bending forward, driven, as by an invisible power,
down into the valley.

It reminds one of such expressions as these in Job:--

"Have the gates of death been open to thee, or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death?"
One should read that sublime poem in such scenes as these. I remained on the ice as long as
I could persuade the guides and party to remain.

Then we went back to the house, where, of course, we looked at some wood work, agates, and
all the et cetera.

Then we turned our steps downward. We went along the side of the glacier, and I desired to
climb over as near as possible, in order to see the source of the Arveiron, which is formed
by the melting of this glacier. Its cradle is a ribbed and rocky cavern of blue ice, and like
a creature born full of vigor and immortality, it begins life with an impetuous leap. The cold
arms of the glaciers cannot retain it; it must go to the warm, flowery, velvet meadows below.

The guide was quite anxious about me; he seemed to consider a lady as something that must necessarily
break in two, or come apart, like a German doll, if not managed with extremest care; and therefore
to see one bounding through bushes, leaping, and springing, and climbing over rocks at such
a rate, appeared to him the height of desperation.

The good, faithful soul wanted to keep me within orthodox limits, and felt conscientiously
bound to follow me wherever I went, and to offer me his hand at every turn. I considered, on
the whole, that I ought not to blame him, since guides hold themselves responsible for life
and limb; and any accident to those under their charge is fatal to their professional honor.

Going down, I held some conversation with him on matters and things in general, and life in
Chamouni in particular. He inquired with great interest about America; which, throughout Europe,
I find the working classes regard as a kind of star in the west, portending something of good
to themselves. He had a son, he said, settled in America, near St. Louis.

"And don't you want to go to America?" said I, after hearing him praise the good land.

"Ah, no," he said, with a smile.

"Why not?" said I; "it is a much easier country to live in."

He gave a look at the circle of mountains around, and said, "I love Chamouni." The good soul!
I was much of his opinion. If I had been born within sight of glorious Mont Blanc, with its
apocalyptic clouds, and store of visions, not all the fat pork and flat prairies of Indiana
and Ohio could tempt me. No wonder the Swiss die for their native valleys! I would if I were
they. I asked him about education. He said his children went to a school kept by Catholic sisters,
who taught reading, writing, and Latin. The dialect of Chamouni is a patois, composed of French
and Latin. He said that provision was very scarce in the winter. I asked how they made their
living when there were no travellers to be guided up Mont Blanc. He had a trade at which he
wrought in winter months, and his wife did tailoring.

I must not forget to say that the day before there had been some confidential passages between
us, which began by his expressing, interrogatively, the opinion that "mademoiselle was a young
lady, he supposed." When mademoiselle had assured him, on the contrary, that she was a venerable
matron, mother of a thriving family, then followed a little comparison of notes as to numbers.
Madame he ascertained to have six, and he had four, if my memory serves me, as it generally
does not in matters of figures. So you see it is not merely among us New Englanders that the
unsophisticated spirit of curiosity exists as to one's neighbors. Indeed, I take it to be a
wholesome development of human nature in general. For my part, I could not think highly of
any body who could be brought long into connection with another human being and feel no interest
to inquire into his history and surroundings.

As we stopped, going down the descent, to rest the mules, I looked up above my head into the
crags, and saw a flock of goats browsing. One goat, in particular, I remember, had gained the
top of a kind of table rock, which stood apart from the rest, and which was carpeted with lichens
and green moss. There he stood, looking as unconscious and contemplative as possible, the wicked
fellow, with his long beard! He knew he looked picturesque, and that is what he stood there
for. But, as they say in New England, he did it "as nat'ral as a pictur!"

By the by, the girls with strawberries, milk, and knitting work were on hand on the way down,
and met us just where a cool spring gushed out at the roots of a pine tree; and of course I
bought some more milk and strawberries.

How dreadfully hot it was when we got down to the bottom! for there we had the long, shadeless
ride home, with the burning lenses of the glaciers concentrated upon our defenceless heads.
I was past admiring any thing, and glad enough for the shelter of a roof, and a place to lie down.

After dinner, although the Glacier de Boisson had been spoken of as the appointed work for
the afternoon, yet we discovered, as the psalm book says, that

  "The force of nature could no farther go"

What is Glacier de Boisson, or glacier any thing else, to a person used up entirely, with no
sense or capability left for any thing but a general aching? No; the Glacier de Boisson was
given up, and I am sorry for it now, because it is the commencement of the road up Mont Blanc;
and, though I could not go to the top thereof, I should like to have gone as far as I could.
In fact, I should have been glad to sleep one night at the Grands Mulets: however, that was
impossible.

To look at the apparently smooth surface of the mountain side, one would never think that the
ascent could be a work of such difficulty and danger. Yet, look at the picture of crossing
a crevasse, and compare the size of the figures with the dimensions of the blocks of ice. Madame
d'Angeville told me that she was drawn across a crevasse like this, by ropes tied under her
arms, by the guides. The depth of some of the crevasses may be conjectured from the fact stated
by Agassiz, that the thickest parts of the glaciers are over one thousand feet in depth.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

Friday, July 8.--Chamouni to Martigny, by Tete Noir. Mules en avant. We set off in a caleche.
After a two hours' ride we came to "those mules." On, to the pass of Tete Noir, by paths the
most awful. As my mule trod within six inches of the verge, I looked down into an abyss, so
deep that tallest pines looked like twigs; yet, on the opposite side of the pass, I looked
up the steep precipice to an equal height, where giant trees seemed white fluttering fringe.
A dizzy sight. We swept round an angle, entered a dark tunnel blasted out through the solid
rock, emerged, and saw before us, on our right, the far-famed Tete Noir, a black ledge, on
whose face, so high is the opposite cliff, the sun never shines. A few steps brought us to
a hotel. William and I rolled down some avalanches, by way of getting an appetite, while dinner
was preparing.

After dinner we commenced descending towards Martigny, alternately riding and walking. Here,
while I was on foot, my mule took it into his head to run away. I was never more surprised
in my life than to see that staid, solemn, meditative, melancholy beast suddenly perk up both
his long ears, thus, and hop about over the steep paths like a goat. Not more surprised should
I be to see some venerable D. D. of Princeton leading off a dance in the Jardin Mabille. We
chased him here, and chased him there. We headed him, and he headed us. We said, "Now I have
you," and he said, "No, you don't!" until the affair began to grow comically serious. "Il se
moque de vous!" said the guide. But, at that moment, I sprang and caught him by the bridle,
when, presto! down went his ears, shut went the eyes, and over the entire gay brute spread
a visible veil of stolidity. And down he plodded, slunging, shambling, pivotting round zigzag
corners, as before, in a style which any one that ever navigated such a craft down hill knows
without further telling. After that, I was sure that the old fellow kept up a "terrible thinking,"
in spite of his stupid looks, and knew a vast deal more than he chose to tell.

At length we opened on the Rhone valley; and at seven we reached Hotel de la Tour, at Martigny.
Here H. and S. managed to get up two flights of stone stairs, and sank speechless and motionless
upon their beds. I must say they have exhibited spirit to-day, or, as Mr. C. used to say, "pluck."
After settling with our guides,--fine fellows, whom we hated to lose,--I ordered supper, and
sought new guides for our route to the convent. Our only difficulty in reaching there, they
say, is the snow. The guides were uncertain whether mules could get through so early in the
season. Only to think! To-day, riding broilingly through hay-fields--to-morrow, stuck in snow
drifts!

LETTER XXXV.

Dear Henry:--

You cannot think how beautiful are these Alpine valleys. Our course, all the first morning
after we left Chamouni, lay beside a broad, hearty, joyous mountain torrent, called, perhaps
from the darkness of its waters, Eau Noire. Charming meadows skirted its banks. All the way
along I could think of nothing but Bunyan's meadows beside the river of life, "curiously adorned
with lilies." These were curiously adorned, broidered, and inwrought with flowers, many and
brilliant as those in a western prairie. Were I to undertake to describe them, I might make
an inventory as long as Homer's list of the ships. There was the Canterbury bell of our garden;
the white meadow sweet; the blue and white campanula; the tall, slender harebell, and a little,
short-tufted variety of the same, which our guide tells me is called "Les Clochettes," or the
"little bells"--fairies might ring them, I thought. Then there are whole beds of the little
blue forget-me-not, and a white flower which much resembles it in form. I also noticed, hanging
in the clefts of the rocks around Tete Noir, the long golden tresses of the laburnum. It has
seemed to me, when I have been travelling here, as if every flower I ever saw in a garden met
me some where in rocks or meadows.

There is a strange, unsatisfying pleasure about flowers, which, like all earthly pleasure,
is akin to pain. What can you do with them?--you want to do something, but what? Take them
all up, and carry them with you? You cannot do that. Get down and look at them? What, keep
a whole caravan waiting for your observations! That will never do. Well, then, pick and carry
them along with you. That is what, in despair of any better resource, I did. My good old guide
was infinite in patience, stopping at every new exclamation point of mine, plunging down rocks
into the meadow land, climbing to the points of great rocks, and returning with his hands filled
with flowers. It seemed almost sacrilegious to tear away such fanciful creations, that looked
as if they were votive offerings on an altar, or, more likely, living existences, whose only
conscious life was a continued exhalation of joy and praise.

These flowers seemed to me to be earth's raptures and aspirations --her better moments--her
lucid intervals. Like every thing else in our existence, they are mysterious.

In what mood of mind were they conceived by the great Artist? Of what feelings of his are they
the expression--springing up out of the dust, in these gigantic, waste, and desolate regions,
where one would think the sense of his almightiness might overpower the soul? Born in the track
of the glacier and the avalanche, they seem to say to us that this Almighty Being is very pitiful,
and of tender compassion; that, in his infinite soul, there is an exquisite gentleness and
love of the beautiful, and that, if we would be blessed, his will to bless is infinite.

The greatest men have always thought much of flowers. Luther always kept a flower in a glass,
on his writing table; and when he was waging his great public controversy with Eckius, he kept
a flower in his hand. Lord Bacon has a beautiful passage about flowers. As to Shakspeare, he
is a perfect Alpine valley--he is full of flowers; they spring, and blossom, and wave in every
cleft of his mind. Witness the Midsummer Night's Dream. Even Milton, cold, serene, and stately
as he is, breaks forth into exquisite gushes of tenderness and fancy when he marshals the flowers,
as in Lycidas and Comus.

But all this while the sun has been withering the flowers the guide brought me; how they look!
blue and white Canterbury bells, harebells, clochettes, all bedraggled and wilted, like a young
lady who has been up all night at a ball.

"No, no," say I to the guide; "don't pick me any more. I don't want them. The fact is, if they
are pretty I cannot help it. I must even take it out in looking as I go by."

One thing is evident; He who made the world is no utilitarian, no despiser of the fine arts,
and no condemner of ornament; and those religionists, who seek to restrain every thing within
the limits of cold, bare utility, do not imitate our Father in heaven.

Cannot a bonnet cover your head, without the ribbon and the flowers, say they? Yes; and could
not a peach tree bear peaches without a blossom? What a waste is all this colored corolla of
flowers, as if the seed could not mature without them! God could have created the fruit in
good, strong, homely bushel baskets, if he had been so disposed.

"Turn off my eyes from beholding vanity," says a good man, when he sees a display of graceful
ornament. What, then, must he think of the Almighty Being, all whose useful work is so overlaid
with ornament? There is not a fly's leg, nor an insect's wing, which is not polished and decorated
to an extent that we should think positive extravagance in finishing up a child's dress. And
can we suppose that this Being can take delight in dwellings and modes of life or forms of
worship where every thing is reduced to cold, naked utility? I think not. The instinct to adorn
and beautify is from him; it likens us to him, and if rightly understood, instead of being
a siren to beguile our hearts away, it will be the closest affiliating band.

If this power of producing the beautiful has been always so fascinating that the human race
for its sake have bowed down at the feet even of men deficient in moral worth, if we cannot
forbear loving the painter, poet, and sculptor, how much more shall we love God, who, with
all goodness, has also all beauty!

But all this while we have been riding on till we have passed the meadows, and the fields,
and are coming into the dark and awful pass of the Tete Noir, which C. has described to you.

One thing I noticed which he did not. When we were winding along the narrow path, bearing no
more proportion to the dizzy heights above and below than the smallest insect creeping on the
wall, I looked across the chasm, and saw a row of shepherds' cottages perched midway on a narrow
shelf, that seemed in the distance not an inch wide. By a very natural impulse, I exclaimed,
"What does become of the little children there? I should think they would all fall over the
precipice!"

My guide looked up benevolently at me, as if he felt it his duty to quiet my fears, and said
in a soothing tone, "O, no, no, no!"

Of course, I might have known that little children have their angels there, as well as every
where else. "When they have funerals there," said he, "they are obliged to carry the dead along
that road," pointing to a road that resembled a thread drawn on the rocky wall.

What a strange idea--such a life and death! It seemed to me, that I could see a funeral train
creeping along; the monks, with their black cloaks, carrying tapers, and singing psalms; the
whole procession together not larger in proportion than a swarm of black gnats; and yet, perhaps,
hearts there wrung with an infinite sorrow. In that black, moving point, may be a soul, whose
convulsions and agonies cannot be measured or counted by any thing human, so impossible is
it to measure souls by space.

What can they think of, these creatures, who are born in this strange place, half way between
heaven and earth, to whom the sound of avalanches is a cradle hymn, and who can never see the
sun above the top of the cliff on either side, till he really gets into the zenith?

What they can be thinking of I cannot tell. Life, I suppose, is made up of the same prosaic
material there that it is every where. The mother thinks how she shall make her goat's milk
and black bread hold out. The grandmother knits stockings, and runs out to see if Jaques or
Pierre have not tumbled over the precipice. Jaques and Pierre, in return, tangle grandmother's
yarn, upset mother's milk bucket, pull the goat's beard, tear their clothes to pieces on the
bushes and rocks, and, in short, commit incredible abominations daily, just as children do
every where.

In the night how curiously this little nest of houses must look, lighted up, winking and blinking
at the solitary traveller, like some mysterious eyes looking out of a great eternity! There
they all are fast asleep, Pierre, and Jaques, and grandmother, and the goats. In the night
they hear a tremendous noise, as if all nature was going to pieces; they half wake, open one
eye, say, "Nothing but an avalanche!" and go to sleep again.

This road, through the pass of the Tete Noir, used to be dangerous; a very narrow bridle-path,
undefended by any screen whatever. To have passed it in those old days would have had too much
of the sublime to be quite agreeable to me. The road, as it is, is wide enough, I should think,
for three mules to go abreast, and a tunnel has been blasted through what seemed the most difficult
and dangerous point, and a little beyond this tunnel is the Hotel de la Couronne.

If any body wanted to stop in the wildest and lonesomest place he could find in the Alps, so
as to be saturated with a sense of savageness and desolation, I would recommend this hotel.
The chambers are reasonably comfortable, and the beds of a good quality--a point which S. and
I tested experimentally soon after our arrival. I thought I should like to stay there a week,
to be left there alone with Nature, and see what she would have to say to me.

But two or three hours' ride in the hot sun, on a mule's back, indisposes one to make much
of the grandest scenes, insomuch that we were glad to go to sleep; and on awaking we were glad
to get some dinner, such as it was.

Well, after our dinner, which consisted of a dish of fried potatoes and some fossiliferous
bread, such as prevails here at the small hotels in Switzerland, we proceeded onward. After
an intolerably hot ride for half an hour we began to ascend a mountain called the Forclaz.

There is something magnificent about going up these mountains, appalling as it seems to one's
nerves, at particular turns and angles of the road, where the mule stops you on the very "brink
of forever," as one of the ladies said.

Well, at last we reached the top, and began to descend; and there, at our feet, as if we were
looking down at it out of a cloud, lay the whole beautiful valley of the Rhone. I did not know
then that this was one of the things put down in the guide book, that we were expected to admire,
as I found afterwards it was; but nothing that I saw any where through the Alps impressed me
as this did. It seemed to me more like the vision of "the land that is very far off" than any
thing earthly. I can see it now just as distinctly as I saw it then; one of these flat, Swiss
valleys, green as a velvet carpet, studded with buildings and villages that looked like dots
in the distance, and embraced on all sides by these magnificent mountains, of which those nearest
in the prospect were distinctly made out, with their rocks, pine trees, and foliage.

The next in the receding distance were fainter, and of a purplish green; the next of a vivid
purple; the next, lilac; while far in the fading view the crystal summits and glaciers of the
Oberland Alps rose like an exhalation.

The afternoon sun was throwing its level beams in between these many-colored ranges, and on
one of them the ruins of an old Roman tower stood picturesquely prominent. The Simplon road
could be seen, dividing the valley like an arrow.

I had gone on quite ahead of my company, and as my mule soberly paced downward in the almost
perpendicular road, I seemed to be poised so high above the enchanting scene that I had somewhat
the same sensation as if I were flying. I don't wonder that larks seem to get into such a rapture
when they are high up in the air. What a dreamlike beauty there is in distance, disappearing
ever as we approach!

As I came down towards Martigny into the pasture land of the great mountain, it seemed to me
that the scenery might pass for that of the Delectable Mountains--such beautiful, green, shadowy
hollows, amid great clumps of chestnut and apple trees, where people were making their hay,
which smelled so delightfully, while cozy little Swiss cottages stood in every nook.

All were out in the fields, men, women, and children, and in one hayfield I saw the baby's
cradle--baby, of course, concealed from view under a small avalanche of a feather bed, as the
general fashion in these parts seems to be. The women wore broad, flat hats, and all appeared
to be working rather lazily, as it was coming on evening.

This place might have done for Arcadia, or Utopia, or any other of those places people think
of when they want to get rid of what is, and get into the region of what might be.

I was very far before my party, and now got off my mule, and sat down on a log to wait till
they came up. Then the drama enacted by C.'s mule took place, which he has described to you.
I merely saw a distant commotion, but did not enter into the merits of the case.

As they were somewhat slow coming down, I climbed over a log into a hayfield, and plucked a
long, delicate, white-blossomed vine, with which I garlanded the top of my flat hat.

One is often reminded of a text of Scripture in these valleys--"He sendeth springs into the
valleys, which run among the hills."

Every where are these little, lively, murmuring brooks falling down the rocks, prattling through
the hayfields, sociably gossiping with each other as they go.

Here comes the party, and now we are going down into Martigny. How tired we were! We had to
ride quite through the town, then through a long, long row of trees, to come to the Hotel de
la Tour. How delightful it seemed, with its stone entries and staircases, its bedrooms as inviting
as cleanliness could make them! The eating saloon opened on to a beautiful garden filled with
roses in full bloom. There were little tables set about under the trees for people to take
their strawberries and cream, or tea, in the open air if they preferred it, a very common and
pleasant custom of continental hotels.

A trim, tidy young woman in a white cap, with a bunch of keys at her girdle, ushered us up
two flights of stone stairs, into a very clean, nice apartment, with white muslin window curtains.
Now, there is no feature of a room that speaks to the heart like white muslin window curtains;
they always shed light on the whole scene.

After resting a while we were called down to a supper of strawberries and cream, and nice little
rolls with honey. This honey you find at every hotel in Switzerland, as one of the inevitables
of the breakfast or tea table.

Here we were to part from our Chamouni guides, and engage new ones to take us to St. Bernard.
I had become so fond of mine that it really went quite to my heart; we had an affecting leave-taking
in the dark stone entry, at the foot of the staircase. In the earnestness of my emotion I gave
him all the change I had in my pocket, to buy souvenirs for his little folks at home, for you
know I told you we had compared notes on sundry domestic points. I really flattered myself
that I was doing something quite liberal; but this deceitful Swiss coin! I found, when I came
to tell C. about it, that the whole stock only amounted to about twenty cents: like a great
many things in this world, it looked more than it was. The good man, however, seemed as grateful
as if I had done something, wished all sorts of happiness to me and my children, and so we
parted. Peace go with him in his Chamouni cottage.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

Saturday, July 9. Rose in a blaze of glory. Rode five mortal hours in a char-a-banc, sweltering
under a burning sun. But in less than ten minutes after we mounted the mules and struck into
the gorge, the ladies muffled themselves in thick shawls. We seemed to have passed, almost
in a moment, from the tropics into the frigid zone. A fur cloak was suggested to me, but as
it happened I was adequately calorified without. Chancing to be the last in the file, my mule
suddenly stopped to eat.

"Allez, allez!" said I, twitching the bridle.

"I won't!" said he, as plainly as ears and legs could speak.

"Allez!" thundered I, jumping off and bestowing a kick upon his ribs which made me suffer if
it did not him.

"I won't!" said he, stuffily.

"Won't you?" said I, pursuing the same line of inductive argument, with rhetorical flourishes
of the bridle.

"Never!" he replied again, most mulishly.

"Then if words and kicks won't do," said I, "let us see what virtue there is in stones;" and
suiting the action to the word, I showered him with fragments of granite, as from a catapult.
At every concussion he jumped and kicked, but kept his nose in the same relative position.
I redoubled the logical admonition; he jumped the more perceptibly; finally, after an unusually
affecting appeal from a piece of granite, he fairly budged, and I seized the bridle to mount.

"Not at all," said he, wheeling round to his first position, like a true proslavery demagogue.

"Ah," said I; and went over the same line of argument in a more solid and convincing manner.
At length the salutary impression seemed permanently fastened on his mind; he fairly gave in;
and I rode on in triumph to overtake the party--having no need of a fur coat.

Horeb, Sinai, and Hor! What a wilderness! what a sudden change! Nothing but savage, awful precipices
of naked granite, snowy fields, and verdureless wastes! In every other place in the Alps, we
have looked upon the snow in the remote distance, to be dazzled with its sheeny effulgence--ourselves,
meanwhile, in the region of verdure and warmth. Here we march through a horrid desert--not
a leaf, not a blade of grass--over the deep drifts of snow; and we find our admiration turns
to horror. And this is the road that Hannibal trod, and Charlemagne, and Napoleon! They were
fit conquerors of Rome, who could vanquish the sterner despotism of eternal winter.

After an hour's perilous climbing, we reached, at last, the hospice, and in five minutes were
sitting at the supper table, by a good blazing fire, with a lively company, chatting with a
gentlemanly abbe, discussing figs and fun, cracking filberts and jokes, and regaling ourselves
genially. But ever and anon drawing, with a half shiver, a little closer to the roaring fagots
in the chimney, I thought to myself, "And this is our midsummer nights' dream"!

LETTER XXXVI.

Dear:--

During breakfast, we were discussing whether we could get through the snow to Mont St. Bernard.
Some thought we could, and some thought not. So it goes here: we are gasping and sweltering
one hour, and plunging through snow banks the next.

After breakfast, we entered the char-a-banc, a crab-like, sideway carriage, and were soon on
our way. Our path was cut from the breast of the mountain, in a stifling gorge, where walls
of rock on both sides served as double reflectors to concentrate the heat of the sun on our
hapless heads. To be sure, there was a fine foaming stream at the bottom of the pass, and ever
so much fine scenery, if we could have seen it; but our chars opened but one way, and that
against the perpendicular rock, close enough, almost, to blister our faces; and the sun beat
in so on our backs that we were obliged to have the curtain down. Thus we were as uncognizant
of the scenery we passed through as if we had been nailed up in a box. Nothing but the consideration
that we were travelling for pleasure could for a moment have reconciled us to such inconveniences.
As it was, I occasionally called out to C., in the back carriage, to be sure and take good
care of the fur coat; which always brought shouts of laughter from the whole party. The idea
of a fur coat seemed so supremely ridiculous to us, there was no making us believe we ever
should or could want it.

That was the most unpleasant day's ride I had in the Alps. We stopped to take dinner in the
little wretched village of Liddes. You have no idea what a disagreeable, unsavory concern one
of these villages is. Houses, none of which look much better than the log barns in our Western
States, set close together on either side of a street paved with round stones; coarse, sunburnt
women, with their necks enlarged by the goitre; and dirty children, with tangled hair, and
the same disgusting disease,--these were the principal features of the scene.

This goitre prevails so extensively in this region, that you seldom see a person with the neck
in a healthy condition. The worst of the matter is, that in many cases of children it induces
idiocy. Cases of this kind were so frequent, that, after a while, whenever I met a child, I
began to search in its face for indications of the approach of this disease.

They are called cretins. In many cases the whole head appears swelled and deformed. As usual,
every one you look at puts out the hand to beg. The tavern where we stopped to dine seemed
more like a great barn, or cavern, than any thing else. We go groping along perfectly dark
stone passages, stumbling up a stone staircase, and gaining light only when the door of a kind
of reception room opens upon us--a long, rough-looking room, without any carpet, furnished
with a table, and some chairs, and a rude sofa. We were shown to a bed room, carpetless, but
tolerably clean, with a very high feather bed in each corner, under a canopy of white curtains.

After dinner we went on towards St. Pierre, a miserable hamlet, where the mules were taken
out of the chars, and we prepared to mount them.

It was between three and four o'clock. Our path lay up a desolate mountain gorge. After we
had ascended some way the cold became intense. The mountain torrent, by the side of which we
went up, leaped and tumbled under ribs of ice, and through banks of snow.

I noticed on either side of the defile that there were high posts put up on the rocks, and
a cord stretched from one to the other. The object of these, my guide told me, was to show
the path, when this whole ravine is filled up with deep snow.

I could not help thinking how horrible it must be to go up here in the winter.

Our path sometimes came so near to the torrent as to suggest uncomfortable ideas.

In one place it swept round the point of a rock which projected into the foaming flood, so
that it was completely under water. I stopped a little before I came to this, and told the
guide I wanted to get down. He was all accommodation, and lifted me from my saddle, and then
stood to see what I would do next. When I made him understand that I meant to walk round the
point, he very earnestly insisted that I should get back to the saddle again, and was so positive
that I had only to obey. It was well I did so, for the mule went round safely enough, and could
afford to go up to his ankles in water better than I could.

As we neared the hospice I began to feel the effects of the rarefied air very sensibly. It
made me dizzy and sick, bringing on a most acute headache--a sharp, knife-like pain. S. was
still more affected.

I was glad enough when the old building came in view, though the road lay up an ascent of snow
almost perpendicular.

At the foot of this ascent we paused. Our guides, who looked a little puzzled, held a few moments'
conversation, in which the word "fonce" was particularly prominent, a word which I took to
be equivalent to our English "slump;" and indeed the place was suggestive of the idea. The
snow had so far melted and softened under the influence of the July sun, that something of
this kind, in going up the ascent, seemed exceedingly probable. The man stood leaning on his
alpenstock, looking at the thing to be demonstrated. There were two paths, both equally steep
and snowy. At last he gathered up the bridle, and started up the most direct way. The mule
did not like it at all, evidently, and expressed his disgust by occasionally stopping short
and snuffing, meaning probably to intimate that he considered the whole thing a humbug, and
that in his opinion we should all slump through together, and go to--nobody knows where. At
last, when we were almost up the ascent, he did slump, and went up to his breast in the snow;
whereat the guide pulled me out of the saddle with one hand, and pulled him out of the hole
with the other. In a minute he had me into the saddle again, and after a few moments more we
were up the ascent and drawing near the hospice--a great, square, strong, stone building, standing
alone among rocks and snowbanks.

As we drove up nearer I saw the little porch in front of it crowded with gentlemen smoking
cigars, and gazing on our approach just as any set of loafers do from the porch of a fashionable
hotel. This was quite a new idea of the matter to me. We had been flattering ourselves on performing
an incredible adventure; and lo, and behold, all the world were there waiting for us.

We came up to the steps, and I was so crippled with fatigue and so dizzy and sick with the
thin air, that I hardly knew what I was doing. We entered a low-browed, dark, arched, stone
passage, smelling dismally of antiquity and dogs, when a brisk voice accosted me in the very
choicest of French, and in terms of welcome as gay and courtly as if we were entering a salon.

Keys clashed, and we went up stone staircases, our entertainer talking volubly all the way.
As for me, all the French I ever knew was buried under an avalanche. C. had to make answer
for me, that madame was very unwell, which brought forth another stream of condolence as we
came into a supper room, lighted by a wood fire at one end. The long table was stretched out,
on which they were placing supper. Here I had light enough to perceive that our entertainer
was a young man of a lively, intelligent countenance, in the Augustine monks' dress, viz.,
a long, black camlet frock, with a kind of white band over it, which looks much like a pair
of suspenders worn on the outside. He spoke French very purely, and had all that warm cordiality
and graceful vivacity of manner which seems to be peculiar to the French. He appeared to pity
us very much, and was full of offers of assistance; and when he heard that I had a bad headache,
insisted on having some tea made for me, the only drink on the table being wine The supper
consisted of codfish, stewed apples, bread, filberts, and raisins. Immediately after we were
shown up stone staircases, and along stone passages, to our rooms, of which the most inviting
feature was two high, single beds covered with white spreads. The windows of the rooms were
so narrow as to seem only like loopholes. There was a looking glass, table, chair, and some
glazed prints.

A good old woman came to see if we wanted any thing. I thought, as I stretched myself in the
bed, with feathers under me and feathers over me, what a heaven of rest this place must have
seemed to poor travellers benighted and perishing in the snow. In the morning I looked out
of my loophole on the tall, grim rocks, and a small lake frozen and covered with snow. "Is
this lake always frozen?" said I to the old serving woman who had come to bring us hot water
for washing.

"Sometimes," says she, "about the latter part of August, it is thawed."

I suppose it thaws the last of August, and freezes the first of September.

After dressing ourselves we crept down stairs in hopes of finding the fire which we left the
night before in the sitting room. No such thing. The sun was shining, and it was what was called
a warm day, that is to say, a day when a little thaw trickles down the south side of snow banks;
so the fire was out, and the windows up, and our gay Augustine friend, coming in, congratulated
us on our charming day.

The fireplace was piled up with wood and kindlings ready to be lighted in the evening; but
being made to understand that it was a very sultry day, we could not, of course, suggest such
an extravagance as igniting the tempting pile--an extravagance, because every stick of wood
has to be brought on the backs of mules from the valleys below, at a very great expense of
time and money.

The same is true of provisions of all sorts, and fodder for cattle.

Well, after breakfast I went to the front porch to view the prospect. And what did I see there?
Banks of dirty, half-melted snow, bones, and scraps of offal, patches of bare earth, for a
small space, say about fifty feet round, and then the whole region shut in by barren, inaccessible
rocks, which cut off all view in every direction.

Along by the frozen lake there is a kind of causeway path made for a promenade, where one might
walk to observe the beauties of the season, and our cheery entertainer offered to show it to
us; so we walked out with him. Under the rocks in one place he showed us a little plat, about
as large as a closet door, which, he said, laughing, was their garden.

I asked him if any thing ever really grew there. He shrugged his shoulders, and said, "Sometimes."

We pursued this walk till we came to the end of the lake, and there he showed me a stone pillar.

"There," said he, "beyond that pillar is Italy."

"Well," said I, "I believe I shall take a trip into Italy." So, as he turned back to go to
the house, W. and I continued on. We went some way into Italy, down the ravine, and I can assure
you I was not particularly struck with the country.

I observed no indications of that superiority in the fine arts, or of that genial climate and
soil, of which I had heard so much. W. and I agreed to give ourselves airs on this subject
whenever the matter of Italy was introduced, and to declare that we had been there, and had
seen none of the things of which people write in books.

"What a perfectly dismal, comfortless place!" said I; but climbing up the rocks to rest me
in a sunny place, I discovered that they were all enamelled with the most brilliant flowers.

In particular I remarked beds of velvet moss, which bore a pink blossom, in form somewhat like
this. Then there was a kind of low, starry gentian, of a bright metallic blue; I tried to paint
it afterwards, but neither ultramarine nor any color I could find would represent its brilliancy;
it was a kind of living brightness. I examined the petals to see how this effect was produced,
and it seemed to be by a kind of prismatic arrangement of the small round particles of which
they were composed. The shape of the flower was somewhat like this.

I spread down my pocket handkerchief, and proceeded to see how many varieties I could gather,
and in a very small circle W. and I collected eighteen. Could I have thought, when I looked
from my window over this bleak region, that any thing so perfectly lovely as this little purple
witch, for example, was to be found there? It was quite a significant fact. There is no condition
of life, probably, so dreary that a lowly and patient seeker cannot find its flowers.

I began to think that I might be contented even there. But while I was looking I was so sickened
by headache, and disagreeable feelings arising from the air, that I often had to lie down on
the sunny side of the bank. W., I found, was similarly troubled; he said he really thought
in the morning he was going to have a fever. We went back to the house. There were services
in the chapel; I could hear the organ pealing, and the singers responding.

Seven great dogs were sunning themselves on the porch, and as I knew it was a subject particularly
interesting to you, I made minute inquiries respecting them. Like many other things, they have
been much overstated, I think, by travellers. They are of a tawny-yellow color, short haired,
broad chested, and strong limbed. As to size, I have seen much larger Newfoundland dogs in
Boston. I made one of them open his mouth, and can assure you it was black as night; a fact
which would seem to imply Newfoundland blood. In fact the breed originally from Spain is supposed
to be a cross between the Pyrenean and the Newfoundland. The biggest of them was called Pluto.
Here is his likeness, which W. sketched.

For my part, I was a little uneasy among them, as they went walloping and frisking around me,
flouncing and rolling over each other on the stone floor, and making, every now and then, the
most hideous noises that it ever came into a dog's head to conceive.

As I saw them biting each other in their clumsy frolics, I began to be afraid lest they should
take it into their heads to treat me like one of the family, and so stood ready to run.

The man who showed them wished to know if I should like to see some puppies; to which, in the
ardor of natural history, I assented: so he opened the door of a little stone closet, and sure
enough there lay madam in state, with four little blind, snubbed-nosed pledges. As the man
picked up one of these, and held it up before me in all the helplessness of infancy, looking
for all the world like a roly-poly pudding with a short tail to it, I could not help querying
in my mind, are you going to be a St. Bernard dog?

One of the large dogs, seeing the door open, thought now was a good time to examine the premises,
and so walked briskly into the kennel, but was received by the amiable mother with such a sniff
of the nose as sent him howling back into the passage, apparently a much wiser and better dog
than he had been before. Their principal use is to find paths in the deep snow when the fathers
go out to look for travellers, as they always do in stormy weather. They are not longlived;
neither man nor animal can stand the severe temperature and the thin air for a long time. Many
of the dogs die from diseases of the lungs and rheumatism, besides those killed by accidents,
such as the falling of avalanches, &c. A little while ago so many died that they were fearful
of losing the breed altogether, and were obliged to recruit by sending down into the valleys
for some they had given away. One of the monks told us that, when they went out after the dogs
in the winter storms, all they could see of them was their tails moving along through the snow.
The monks themselves can stand the climate but a short time, and then they are obliged to go
down and live in the valleys below, while others take their places.

They told us that there were over a hundred people in the hospice when we were there. They
were mostly poor peasants and some beggars. One poor man came up to me, and uncovered his neck,
which was a most disgusting sight, swollen with goitre. I shut my eyes, and turned another
way, like a bad Christian, while our Augustine friend walked up to him, spoke in a soothing
tone, and called him "my son." He seemed very loving and gentle to all the poor, dirty people
by whom we were surrounded.

I went into the chapel to look at the pictures. There was St. Bernard standing in the midst
of a desolate, snowy waste, with a little child on one arm and a great dog beside him.

This St. Bernard, it seems, was a man of noble family, who lived nine hundred and sixty-two
years after Christ. Almost up to that time a temple to Jupiter continued standing on this spot.
It is said that the founding of this institution finally rooted out the idolatrous worship.

On Monday we returned to Martigny, and obtained a voiture for Villeneuve. Drove through the
beautiful Rhone valley, past the celebrated fall of the Pissevache, and about five o'clock
reached the Hotel Byron, on the shore of the lake.

LETTER XXXVII.

HOTEL BYRON.

MY DEAR:--

Here I am, sitting at my window, overlooking Lake Leman. Castle Chillon, with its old conical
towers, is silently pictured in the still waters. It has been a day of a thousand. We took
a boat, with two oarsmen, and passed leisurely along the shores, under the cool, drooping branches
of trees, to the castle, which is scarce a stone's throw from the hotel. We rowed along, close
under the walls, to the ancient moat and drawbridge. There I picked a bunch of blue bells,
"les clochettes," which were hanging their aerial pendants from every crevice--some blue, some
white.

I know not why the old buildings and walls in Europe have this vivacious habit of shooting
out little flowery ejaculations and soliloquies at every turn. One sees it along through France
and Switzerland, every where; but never, that I remember, in America.

On the side of the castle wall, in a large white heart, is painted the inscription, Liberte
et Patrie!

We rowed along, almost touching the castle rock, where the wall ascends perpendicularly, and
the water is said to be a thousand feet deep. We passed the loopholes that illuminate the dungeon
vaults, and an old arch, now walled up, where prisoners, after having been strangled, were
thrown into the lake.

Last evening we walked over the castle. An interesting Swiss woman, who has taught herself
English for the benefit of her visitors, was our cicerone. She seemed to have all the old Swiss
vivacity of attachment for "liberte et patrie."

She took us first into the dungeon, with the seven pillars, described by Byron. There was the
pillar to which, for protecting the liberty of Geneva, BONNEVARD was chained. There the Duke
of Savoy kept him for six years, confined by a chain four feet long. He could take only three
steps, and the stone floor is deeply worn by the prints of those weary steps. Six years is
so easily said; but to live them, alone, helpless, a man burning with all the fires of manhood,
chained to that pillar of stone, and those three unvarying steps! Two thousand one hundred
and ninety days rose and set the sun, while seedtime and harvest, winter and summer, and the
whole living world went on over his grave. For him no sun, no moon, no star, no business, no
friendship, no plans--nothing! The great millstone of life emptily grinding itself away!

What a power of vitality was there in Bonnevard, that he did not sink in lethargy, and forget
himself to stone! But he did not; it is said that when the victorious Swiss army broke in to
liberate him, they cried,--

"Bonnevard, you are free!"

"Et Geneve?"

"Geneva is free also!"

You ought to have heard the enthusiasm with which our guide told this story!

Near by are the relics of the cell of a companion of Bonnevard, who made an ineffectual attempt
to liberate him. On the wall are still seen sketches of saints and inscriptions by his hand.
This man one day overcame his jailer, locked him in his cell, ran into the hall above, and
threw himself from a window into the lake, struck a rock, and was killed instantly.

After we left the dungeons we went up into the judgment hall, where prisoners were tried, and
then into the torture chamber. Here are the pulleys by which limbs were broken; the beam, all
scorched with the irons by which feet were burned; the oven where the irons were heated; and
there was the stone where they were sometimes laid to be strangled, after the torture. On that
stone, our guide told us, two thousand Jews, men, women, and children, had been put to death.
There was also, high up, a strong beam across, where criminals were hung; and a door, now walled
up, by which they were thrown into the lake. I shivered. "'Twas cruel," she said; "'twas almost
as cruel as your slavery in America."

Then she took us into a tower where was the oubliette. Here the unfortunate prisoner was made
to kneel before an image of the Virgin, while the treacherous floor, falling beneath him, precipitated
him into a well forty feet deep, where he was left to die of broken limbs and starvation. Below
this well was still another pit, filled with knives, into which, when they were disposed to
a merciful hastening of the torture, they let him fall. The woman has been herself to the bottom
of the first dungeon, and found there bones of victims. The second pit is now walled up.

"All this," she said, "was done for the glory of God in the good old times."

The glory of God! What has not been done in that name! Yet he keeps silence; patient he watches;
the age-long fever of this world, the delirious night, shall have a morning. Ah, there is an
unsounded depth in that word which says, "He is long-suffering." This it must be at which angels
veil their faces.

On leaving the castle we offered the woman the customary gratuity. "No;" she would "have the
pleasure of showing it to me as a friend." And she ran into a charming little garden, full
of flowers, and brought me a bouquet of lilies and roses, which I have had in my room all day.

To-night, after sunset, we rowed to Byron's "little isle," the only one in the lake. O, the
unutterable beauty of these mountains--great, purple waves, as if they had been dashed up by
a mighty tempest, crested with snow-like foam! this purple sky, and crescent moon, and the
lake gleaming and shimmering, and twinkling stars, while far off up the sides of a snow-topped
mountain a light shines like a star-- some mountaineer's candle, I suppose.

In the dark stillness we rowed again over to Chillon, and paused under its walls. The frogs
were croaking in the moat, and we lay rocking on the wave, and watching the dusky outlines
of the towers and turrets. Then the spirit of the scene seemed to wrap me round like a cloak.

Back to Geneva again. This lovely place will ever leave its image on my heart. Mountains embrace
it. Strength and beauty are its habitation. The Saleve is a peculiar looking mountain, striped
with different strata of rock, which have a singular effect in the hazy distance; so is the
Mole, with its dark marked outline, looking blacker in clear weather, from being set against
the snow mountains beyond.

There is one peculiarity about the outline of Mont Blanc, as seen from Geneva, which is quite
striking. There is in certain positions the profile of a gigantic head visible, lying with
face upturned to the sky. Mrs. F. was the first to point it out to me, calling it a head of
Napoleon. Like many of these fanciful profiles, I was some time in learning to see it; and
after that it became to me so plain that I wondered I had not seen it before. I called it not
Napoleon, however, but as it gained on my imagination, lying there so motionless, cold, and
still, I thought of Prometheus on Mount Caucasus; it seemed as if, his sorrows ended, he had
sunk at last to a dreamless sleep on that snowy summit. This sketch may, perhaps, give you
some faint idea of how such an outline might be formed in one's imagination.

We walked out the other evening, with M. Fazy, to a beautiful place, where Servetus was burned.
Soft, new-mown meadow grass carpets it, and a solemn amphitheatre of mountains, glowing in
the evening sky, looked down--Mont Blanc, the blue-black Mole, the Saleve! Never was deed done
in a more august presence chamber! Ere this these two may have conferred together of the tragedy,
with far other thoughts than then.

The world is always unjust to its progressive men. If one fragment of past absurdity cleaves
to them, they celebrate the absurdity as a personal peculiarity. Hence we hear so much of Luther's
controversial harshness, of Calvin's burning Servetus, and of the witch persecutions of New
England.

Luther was the poet of the reformation, and Calvin its philosopher. Luther fused the mass,
Calvin crystallized. He who fuses makes the most sensation in his day; he who crystallizes
has a longer and wider power. Calvinism, in its essential features, never will cease from the
earth, because the great fundamental facts of nature are Calvinistic, and men with strong minds
and wills always discover it. The predestination of a sovereign will is written over all things.
The old Greek tragedians read it, and expressed it. So did Mahomet, Napoleon, Cromwell. Why?
They found it so by their own experience; they tried the forces of nature enough to find their
strength. The strong swimmer who breasts the Rhone is certain of its current. But Ranke well
said, that in those days when the whole earth was in arms against these reformers, they had
no refuge except in exalting God's sovereignty above all other causes. To him who strives in
vain with the giant forces of evil, what calm in the thought of an overpowering will, so that
will be crowned by goodness! However grim, to the distrusting, looks this fortress of sovereignty
in times of flowery ease, yet in times when "the waters roar and are troubled, and the mountains
shake with the swelling thereof," it has been always the refuge of God's people. All this I
say, while I fully sympathize with the causes which incline many fine and beautiful minds against
the system.

The wife of De Wette has twice called upon me--a good, plain, motherly, pious old lady as any
in Andover. She wanted me to visit her daughter, who, being recently deprived of her only little
girl, has since been wholly lost to life. The only thing in which she expressed any interest
was Uncle Tom's Cabin, and she was earnestly desiring to see me. So I went. I found Mrs. De
Wette in a charming saloon, looking out upon the botanic gardens. A very beautiful picture
of a young lady hung on the wall. "That was my poor Clara," said Mrs. De Wette, "but she is
so altered now!"

After a while Clara came in, and I was charmed at a glance--a most lovely creature, in deep
mourning, with beautiful manners; so much interested for the poor slaves! so full of feeling,
inquiring so anxiously what she could do for them!

"Do ministers ever hold slaves?" she said.

"0, yes; many."

"0! But how can they be Christians?"

"They reason in this way," said I; "they say, 'These people are not fit to take care of themselves;
therefore we must hold them, and educate them, till they are fit to be free.'"

"I wish," said she, looking very pretty and fierce, "that they might all be sold themselves,
and see how they would like it."

Her husband, who speaks only French, now asked what we were talking about, and she repeated
the conversation.

"I would shoot every one of them," said he, with a significant movement.

"Now, see," said Mrs. De Wette, "Clara would sell them, and her husband would shoot them; for
my part, I would rather convert them." We all laughed at this sally.

"Ah," said Clara, "the last thing my little darling looked at was the pictures in Uncle Tom;
when she came to the death of Eva, she said, 'Now I am weary, I will go to sleep;' and so closed
her eyes, and never opened them more."

Clara said she had met the Key in Turin and Milan. The Cabin is made a school reading book
in Sardinia, for those who wish to learn English, with explanatory notes in Italian. The feeling
here on the continent for the slave is no less earnest than in England and Scotland. I have
received most beautiful and feeling letters from many Christians of Switzerland, which I will
show you.

I am grieved to say, that there are American propagandists of slavery here, who seem to feel
it incumbent on them to recognize this hideous excrescence as a national peculiarity, and to
consider any reflection upon it, on the part of the liberty-loving Swiss, as an insult to the
American nation. The sophisms by which slaveholding has been justified from the Bible have
left their slimy track even here. Alas! is it thus America fulfils her high destiny? Must she
send missionaries abroad to preach despotism?

Walking the other evening with M. Fazy, who is, of course, French in education, we talked of
our English literature. He. had Hamlet in French--just think of it. One never feels the national
difference so much as in thinking of Shakspeare in French! Madame de Stael says of translation,
that music written for one instrument cannot be played upon another. I asked if he had read Milton.

"Yes."

"And how did you like him?"

"0," with a kind of shiver, "he is so cold!"

Now, I felt that the delicate probe of the French mind had dissected out a shade of feeling
of which I had often been conscious. There is a coldness about all the luscious exuberance
of Milton, like the wind that blows from, the glaciers across these flowery valleys. How serene
his angels in their adamantine virtue! yet what sinning, suffering soul could find sympathy
in them? The utter want of sympathy for the fallen angels, in the whole celestial circle, is
shocking. Satan is the only one who weeps.

  "For millions of spirits for his fault amerced,
   And from eternal splendors flung."

God does not care, nor his angels. Ah, quite otherwise is God revealed in Him who wept over
Jerusalem, and is touched with the feeling of our infirmities.

I went with Mrs. Fazy the other night to call on Mrs. C.'s friend, Pastor C. They were so affectionate,
so full of beautiful kindness! The French language sounds sweetly as a language of affection
and sympathy: with all its tart vivacity, it has a richness in the gentler world of feeling.
Then, in the evening, I was with a little circle of friends at the house of the sister of Merle
d'Aubigne, and they prayed and sang together. It was beautiful. The hymn was one on the following
of Jesus, similar to that German one of old Godfrey Arnold, which is your favorite. These Christians
speak with deep sorrow of our slavery; it grieves, it distresses them, for the American church
has been to them a beloved object. They have leaned towards it as a vine inclines towards a
vigorous elm. To them it looks incomprehensible that such a thing could gain strength in a
free Christian republic.

I feel really sorry that I have had to withdraw so much from proffered kindness here, and to
seem unwilling to meet feeling; but so it has been. Yet, to me, apparently so cold, many of
these kind Genevese have shown most considerate attention. Fruit and flowers have been sent
in anonymously; and one gentleman offered to place his garden at my disposal for walks, adding
that, if I wished to be entirely private, neither he nor his family would walk there. This,
I thought, was too much kindness.

One social custom here is new to me. The husband, by marriage, takes the wife's name. Thus
M. Fazy, our host, is known as M. Fazy Meyer-- Meyer being his wife's name--a thing which at
first perplexed me. I was often much puzzled about names, owing to this circumstance.

From the conversation I hear I should think that democracy was not entirely absolute in Switzerland.
I hear much about patrician families, particularly at Berne, and these are said to be quite
exclusive; yet that the old Swiss fire still burns in Switzerland, I see many indications.

The other day I visited Beautte's celebrated watch and jewelry store, and saw all the process
of making watches, from the time the case is cut from a sheet of gold, on through the enamelling,
engraving, and finishing. Enamel is metallic paint, burned on in a furnace. Many women are
employed in painting the designs. The workmen looked intelligent and thoughtful, like men who
can both think and do. Some glimpses showed their sympathy with republicanism--as one should
see fire through a closed door.

I have had full reason to observe that difference between Protestant and Catholic cantons on
which Horace Greeley commented while here. They are as different as our slave and free states,
and in the same ways. Geneva seems like New England--the country around is well cultivated,
and speaks of thrift. But, still, I find no land, however beautiful, that can compare with
home--Andover Hill, with its arched elms, its blue distance pointing with spires, its Merrimac
crowned with labor palaces, and, above all, an old stone house, brown and queer, &c. Good by.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

Thursday, July 14. Spent a social evening at Mrs. La V.'s, on the lake shore. Mont Blanc invisible.
We met M. Merle d'Aubigne, brother of our hostess, and a few other friends. Returned home,
and listened to a serenade to H. from a glee club of fifty performers, of the working men of
Geneva. The songs were mostly in French, and the burden of one of them seemed to be in words
like these:--

  "Travaillons, travaillez,
   Pour la liberte!"

Friday, July 15. Mrs. C. and her two daughters are here from Paris. They intend to come to
Madame Fazy till we leave.

Saturday, July 16. Our whole company resorted to the lake, and spent the forenoon on its tranquil
waters. If this life seem idle, we remember that there must be valleys between mountains; and
as, in those vales, tired mountaineers love to rest, so we, by the silver shore of summer Leman,
while away the quiet hours, in this interval, between great mountain epochs Chamouni and Oberland.
Our gentlemanly host ushered us forth upon a terrace overhanging the deep gorge of the Saaerine,
spanned, to the right and left of us, by two immense suspension bridges, one of which seemed
to spring from the hotel itself. Ruins of ancient walls and watch towers lined the precipice.

After dinner we visited the cathedral to hear the celebrated organ. The organist performed
a piece descriptive of a storm. We resigned ourselves to the illusion. Low, mysterious wailings,
swelling, dying away in the distance, seeming at first exceedingly remote, drew gradually near.
Fitful sighings and sobbings rose, as of gusts of wind; then low, smothered roarings. Anon
came flashes of lightning, rattling hail, and driving rain, succeeded by bursts of storm, and
howlings of a hurricane--fierce, furious, frightful. I felt myself lost in a snow storm in
winter, on the pass of Great St. Bernard.

One note there was of strange, terrible clangor--bleak, dark, yet of a lurid fire--that seemed
to prolong itself through all the uproar, like a note of doom, cutting its way to the heart
as the call of the last archangel. Yes, I felt myself alone, lost in a boundless desert, beyond
the abodes of man; and this was a call of terror-stern, savage, gloomy--the call as of fixed
fate and absolute despair.

Then the storm died away, in faint and far-off murmurs; and we broke, as it were, from the
trance, to find ourselves, not lost, but here among the living. We then drove quietly to Berne.

Wednesday, July 20. Examined, not the lions, but the bears of Berne. It is indeed a city of
bears, as its name imports. There are bears on its gates, bears on its fountains, bears in
its parks and gardens, bears every where. But, though Berne rejoices in a fountain adorned
with an image of Saturn eating children, nevertheless, the old city--quaint, quiet, and queer--looks
as if, bear-like, it had been hybernating good-naturedly for a century, and were just about
to wake up.

Thursday, July 21. S. and G. remained at the Belvedere. W., II., and I took a guide and voiture
for Lauterbrunn. Here we visited Byron's apocalyptic horse-tail waterfall, the Staubbach. This
waterfall is very sublime, all except the water and the fall. Whoever has been "under the sheet"
at Niagara will not be particularly impressed here. This picture is sufficiently accurate,
with the exception of the cottage. People here do not build cottages under waterfalls.

LETTER XXXVIII.

DEAR CHILDREN:--

To-day we have been in the Wengern Alps--the scenes described in Manfred. Imagine us mounting,
about ten o'clock, from the valley of Lauterbrunn, on horseback--our party of three--with two
guides. We had first been to see the famous Staubbach, a beautiful, though not sublime, object.
Up we began to go among those green undulations which form the lower part of the mountain.

It is haying time; a bright day; all is cheerful; the birds sing; men, women, and children
are busy in the field. Up we go, zigzag; it grows steeper and steeper. Now right below me is
a field, where men are literally working almost on a perpendicular wall, cutting hay; now we
are so high that the houses in the valley look like chips. Here we stand in a place two thousand
feet above the valley. There is no shield or screen. The horse stands on the very edge; the
guide stops, lets go his bridle, and composedly commences an oration on the scene below. "0,
for mercy's sake, why do you stop here?" I say. "Pray go on." He looks in my face, with innocent
wonder, takes the bridle on his arm, and goes on.

Now we have come to the little village of Wengern, whence the Wengern Alps take their name.
How beautiful! how like fairyland! Up here, midway in air, is a green nook, with undulating
dells, and shadowy, breezy nests, where are the cottages of the haymakers. The Delectable Mountains
had no scene more lovely. Each house has its roof heavily loaded with stones. "What is that
for?" I ask. "The whirlwinds," says my guide, with a significant turn of his hands. "This is
the school house," he adds, as we pass a building larger than the rest.

Now the path turns and slopes down a steep bank, covered with haycocks, to a little nook below,
likewise covered with new hay. If my horse is going to throw me any where, I wish it may be
here: it is not so bad a thing to roll down into that hay. But now we mount higher; the breezy
dells, enamelled with flowers and grass, become fewer; the great black pines take their place.
Right before us, in the purest white, as a bride adorned for her husband, rises the beautiful
Jungfrau, wearing on her forehead the Silver Horn, and the Snow Horn. The Silver Horn is a
peak, dazzlingly bright, of snow; and its crest is now seen in relief against a sky of the
deepest blue. See, also, how those dark pines of the foreground contrast with it, like the
stern, mournful realities of life seen against the dazzling hopes of heaven.

There is something celestial in these mountains. You might think such a vision as that to be
a bright footstool of Heaven, from which the next step would be into an unknown world. The
pines here begin to show that long white beard of moss which I admire so much in Maine. Now,
we go right up over their heads. There, the tall pines are under our feet. A little more--and
now above us rise the stern, naked rocks, where only the chamois and the wild goat live. But
still, fair as the moon, clear as the sun, looks forth the Jungfrau.

We turn to look down. That Staubbach, which in the valley seemed to fall from an immense precipice,
higher than we could gaze, is now a silver thread, far below our feet; and the valley of Lauterbrunn
seems as nothing. Only bleak, purplish crags, rising all around us, and silent, silver mountains
looking over them.

"That one directly before you is the Monk," says C., calling to me from behind, and pointing
to a great snow peak.

Our guide, with animation, introduced us by name to every one of these snow-white genii--the
Falhorn, the Schreckhorn, the Wetterhorn, the great Eiger, and I cannot remember what besides.
The guides seem to consider them all as old friends.

Certainly nothing could be so singular, so peculiar as this ascension. We have now passed the
limit of all but grass and Alpine flowers, which still, with their infinite variety, embroider
the way; and now the auberge is gained. Good night, now, and farewell.

That is to say, there we stopped--on the summit, in fair view of the Jungfrau, a wall of rock
crowned with fields of eternal snow, whose dazzling brightness almost put my eyes out. My head
ached, too, with the thin air of these mountains. I thought I should like to stay one night
just to hear avalanches fall; but I cannot breathe well here, and there is a secret sense of
horror about these sterile rocks and eternal snows. So, after dinner, I gladly consent to go
down to Grindelwald.

Off we start--I walking--for, to tell the truth, I have no fondness for riding down a path
as steep in some places as a wall; I leave that to C., who never fears any thing. So I walked
all the way to Grindelwald, nine miles of a very rough road. There was a lady with her husband
walking the same pass, who had come on foot the whole way from Lauterbrunn, and did not seem
in the least fatigued. My guide exhausted all his eloquence to persuade me that it was better
to ride; at last I settled him by saying, "Why, here is a lady who has walked the whole route."
So he confined himself after that to helping me find flowers, and carrying the handkerchief
in which I stowed them. Alas! what herbarium of hapless flowers, laid out stark, stiff, and
motionless, like beauty on its bier, and with horrible long names written under them, can ever
give an idea of the infinite variety and beauty of the floral crown of these mountains!

The herbarium resembles the bright, living reality no more than the morgue at St. Bernard's
is a specimen of mountain travellers. Yet one thing an herbarium is good for: in looking at
it you can recall how they looked, and glowed, and waved in life, with all their silver-crowned
mountains around them.

After we arrived at Grindelwald, tired as I was, I made sketches of nine varieties, which I
intend to color as soon as we rest long enough. So much I did for love of the dear little souls.

One noticeable feature is the predominance of yellow flowers. These, of various kinds, so abound
as to make a distinct item of coloring in a distant view. One of the most common is this--of
a vivid chrome yellow, sometimes brilliantly striped with orange.

One thing more as to botanical names. What does possess botanists to afflict the most fragile
and delicate of earth's children with such mountainous and unpronounceable names? Now there
was a dear little flower that I first met at St. Bernard--a little purple bell, with a fringe;
it is more particularly beautiful from its growing just on the verge of avalanches, coming
up and blossoming through the snow. I send you one in this letter, which I dug out of a snow
bank this morning. And this fair creation--this hope upon a death bed--this image of love unchilled
and immortal--how I wanted to know it by name!

Today, at the summit house of the mountain, I opened an herbarium, and there were three inches
of name as hopeless and unpronounceable as the German of our guides, piled up on my little
flower. I shut the herbarium.

This morning we started early from Grindelwald--that is, by eight o'clock. An unclouded, clear,
breezy morning, the air full of the sounds of cascades, and of the little bells of the herds.
As we began to wind upward into that delectable region which forms the first stage of ascent,
I said to C., "The more of beautiful scenery I see, the more I appreciate the wonderful poetry
of the Pilgrim's Progress." The meadows by the River of Life, the Delectable Mountains, the
land of Beulah, how often have I thought of them! From this we went off upon painting, and
then upon music, the freshness of the mountain air inspiring our way. At last, while we were
riding in the very lap of a rolling field full of grass and flowers, the sharp blue and white
crystals of the glacier rose at once before us.

"O, I want to get down," said I, "and go near them."

Down I did get, and taking what seemed to be the straightest course, began running down the
hill side towards them.

"No, no! Back, back!" shouted the guide, in unimaginable French and German. "Ici, ici!"

I came back; and taking my hand, he led me along a path where travellers generally go. I went
closer, and sat down on a rock under them, and looked up. The clear sun was shining through
them; clear and blue looked the rifts and arches, all dripping and beautiful. We went down
upon them by steps which a man had cut in the ice. There was one rift of ice we looked into,
which was about fifty feet high, going up into a sharp arch. The inside of this arch was clear
blue ice, of the color of crystal of blue vitriol.

Here, immediately under, I took a rude sketch just to show you how a glacier looks close at hand.

C. wanted, as usual, to do all sorts of improper things. He wanted to stone down blocks of
ice, and to go inside the cave, and to go down into holes, and insisted on standing particularly
long on a spot which the guide told him was all undermined, in order that he might pelt a cliff
of ice that seemed inclined to fall, and hear it smash.

The poor guide was as distressed as a hen when her ducks take to the water; he ran, and called,
and shouted, in German, French, and English, and it was not till C. had contrived to throw
the head of the little boy's hatchet down into a crevasse, that he gave up. There were two
francs to pay for this experiment; but never mind! Our guide book says that a clergyman of
Yevay, on this glacier, fell into a crevasse several hundred feet deep, and was killed; so
I was glad enough when C. came off safe.

He ought to have a bell on his neck, as the cows do here; and apropos to this, we leave the
glacier, and ride up into a land of pastures. Here we see a hundred cows grazing in the field--the
field all yellow with buttercups. They are a very small breed, prettily formed, and each had
on her neck a bell. How many notes there are in these bells! quite a diapason--some very deep
toned, and so on up to the highest! how prettily they sound, all going together! The bells
are made of the best of metal, for the tone is of an admirable quality.

0, do look off there, on that patch of snow under the Wetterhorn! It is all covered with cows;
they look no bigger than insects. "What makes them go there?" said we to our guides.

"To be cool" was the answer.

Hark! what's that? a sudden sound like the rush of a cascade.

"Avalanche! avalanche!" exclaimed the guide. And now, pouring down the sides of the Wetterhorn,
came a milk-white cascade, looking just like any other cascade, melting gracefully over the
rocks, and spreading, like a stream of milk, on the soiled snow below.

This is a summer avalanche--a mere bijou--a fancy article, got up, or rather got down, to entertain
travellers. The winter avalanches are quite other things. Witness a little further in our track,
where our guide stops us, and points to a place where all the pines have been broken short
off by one of them. Along here some old ghostly pines, dead ages ago, their white, ghastly
skeletons bleached by a hundred storms, stand, stretching out their long, bony arms, like phantom
giants. These skeleton pines are a striking image; I wonder I have not seen them introduced
into pictures.

There, now, a little ahead, is a small hut, which marks the summit of the grand Scheidich.
Our horses come up to it, and we dismount. Some of the party go in to sleep--I go out to climb
a neighboring peak. At the foot of this peak lay a wreath of snow, soiled and dirty, as half-melted
snow always is; but lying amid the green grass and luxuriant flowers, it had a strange air.
It seemed a little spot of death in the green lap of rejoicing life--like that death-spot which
often lies in the human heart--among all seeming flowers, cold and cheerless, unwarmed by the
sunbeam, and unmelted by the ray that unfolds thousands of blooms around.

Now, I thought, I have read of Alpine flowers leaning their cheeks on the snows. I wonder if
any flowers grow near enough to that snow to touch it. I mean to go and see. So I went; there,
sure enough, my little fringed purple bell, to which I have given the name of "suspirium,"
was growing, not only close to the snow, but in it.

Thus God's grace shining steadily on the waste places of the human heart, brings up heavenward
sighings and aspirations which pierce through the cold snows of affliction, and tell that there
is yet life beneath.

I climbed up the grassy sides of the peak, flowers to the very top. There I sat down and looked.
This is Alpine solitude. All around me were these deep, green dells, from which comes up the
tinkle of bells, like the dropping of rain every where It seems to me the air is more elastic
and musical here than below, and gives grace to the commonest sound. Now I look back along
the way we have been travelling. I look at the strange old cloudy mountains, the Eiger, the
Wetterhorn, the Schreckhorn. A kind of hazy ether floats around them--an indescribable aerial
halo--which no painter ever represents. Who can paint the air--that vivid blue in which these
sharp peaks cut their glittering images? Of all peaks, the Eiger is the most impressive to me.

It is a gigantic ploughshare of rock, set up against the sky, its thin, keen, purple blade
edged with glittering frost; for so sharp is its point, that only a dazzling line marks the
eternal snow on its head.

I walked out as far as I could on a narrow summit, and took a last look. Glaciers! snows! mountains!
sunny dells and flowers! all good by. I am a pilgrim and a stranger.

Already, looking down to the shanty, I see the guide like a hen that has lost a chicken, shaking
her wings, and clucking, and making a great ado. I could stay here all day. I would like to
stay two or three--to see how it would look at sunrise, at sunset--to lie down in one of these
sunny hollows, and look up into the sky--to shut my eyes lazily, and open them again, and so
let the whole impression soak in, as Mrs. H. used to say.

But no; the sleepers have waked up, the guide has the horses ready, and I must come down. So
here I descend my hill Difficulty into the valley of Humiliation. We stumble along, for the
roads here are no turnpikes, and we come to a place called the Black Forest; not the Black
Forest, but truly a black one. I always love pines, to all generations. I welcome this solemn
old brotherhood, which stand gray-bearded, like monks, old, dark, solemn, sighing a certain
mournful sound--like a benedicite through the leaves.

About noon we came to Rosenlaui. As we drew near the hotel the guide struck off upon a path
leading up the mountain, saying, by way of explanation, "The glacier!"

Now, I confess that it was rather too near dinner time, and I was too tired at once to appreciate
this movement.

I regret to say, that two glaciers, however beautiful, on an empty stomach, appear rather of
doubtful utility. So I remonstrated; but the guide, as all guides do, went dead ahead, as if
I had not said a word. C., however, rode composedly towards the hotel, saying that dinner was
a finer sight than a glacier; and I, though only of the same mind, thought I would follow my
guide, just to see.

W. went with me. After a little we had to leave our horses, and scramble about a mile up the
mountain. "C. was right, and we are wrong," said my companion, sententiously. I was just dubious
enough to be silent. Pretty soon we came to a tremendous ravine, as if an earthquake had rent
a mountain asunder. A hundred feet down in this black gorge, a stream was roaring in a succession
of mad leaps, and a bridge crossed it, where we stood to gaze down into its dark, awful depths.
Then on we went till we came to the glacier. What a mass of clear, blue ice! so very blue,
so clear! This awful chasm runs directly under it, and the mountain torrent, formed by the
melting of the glacier, falls in a roaring cascade into it. You can go down into a cavern in
this rift. Above your head a roof of clear, blue ice; below your feet this black chasm, with
the white, flashing foam of the cascade, as it leaps away into the darkness. On one side of
the glacier was a little sort of cell, or arched nook, up which an old man had cut steps, and
he helped me up into it. I stood in a little Gothic shrine of blue, glittering ice, and looked
out of an arched window at the cascade and mountains. I thought of Coleridge's line--

  "A pleasure bower with domes of ice."

On the whole, the glacier of Rosenlaui paid for looking--even at dinner time--which is saying
a good deal.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

FRIDAY, July 22, Grindelwald to Meyringen. I waved my cap and made a bow. A glacier!--go five
rods farther to see a glacier! Catch me in any such folly. The fact is, Alps are good, like
confections, in moderation; but to breakfast, dine, and sup on Alps surfeits my digestion.

Mountains are Nature's testimonials of anguish. They are the sharp cry of a groaning and travailing
creation. Nature's stern agony writes itself on these furrowed brows of gloomy stone. These
reft and splintered crags stand, the dreary images of patient sorrow, existing verdureless
and stern because exist they must. In them hearts that have ceased to rejoice, and have learned
to suffer, find kindred, and here, an earth worn with countless cycles of sorrow, utters to
the stars voices of speechless despair.

And all this time no dinner! All this time H. is at the glacier! How do I know but she has
fallen into a crevasse? How do I know but that a cliff, one of those ice castles, those leaning
turrets, those frosty spearmen, have toppled over upon her? I shudder at the reflection. I
will write no more.

I had just written thus far, when in came H. and W. in high feather. O, I had lost the greatest
sight in Switzerland! There was such a chasm, a mountain cut in twain, with a bridge, and a
man to throw a stone down; and you could hear it go boom, and he held his hat! "Not a doubt
of that," said I. Then there was a cavern in the ice, and the ice was so green, and the water
dripped from the roof, and a great river rushed out. Such was the substance of their united
enthusiasm.

But, alas! it was not enough to lose the best glacier in Switzerland; I must needs lose two
cascades and a chamois. Just before coming to Meyringen, I was composedly riding down a species
of stone gridiron, set up sidewise, called a road, when the guide overtook me, and requested
me to walk, as the road was bad. Stupid fellow! he said not a word about cascades and chamois,
and so I went down like a chamois myself, taking the road that seemed best and nearest, and
reached the inn an hour before the rest. After waiting till I became alarmed, and was just
sending back a messenger to inquire, lo, in they came, and began to tell me of cascades and
chamois.

"What cascade? What chamois? I have not seen any!" And then what a burst! "Not seen any! What,
two cascades, one glacier, and a four-year-old chamois, lost in one day! What will become of
you? Is this the way you make the tour of Switzerland?"

Saturday, July 23. Rode in a voiture from Meyringen to Brienz, on the opposite end of the lake
from Interlachen. Embarked in a rowboat of four immense oars tied by withs. Two men and one
woman pulled three, and W. and I took turns at the fourth. The boat being high built, flat
bottomed, with awning and flagstaff, rolled and tipped so easily that soon H., with remorseful
visage, abandoned her attempt to write, and lay down. There is a fresh and savage beauty about
this lake, which can only be realized by rowing across.

Interlachen is underrated in the guide books. It has points of unrivalled loveliness; the ruins
of the old church of Rinconberg, for example, commanding a fine view of both lakes, of the
country between, and the Alps around, while just at your feet is a little lake in a basin,
some two hundred feet above the other lakes. Then, too, from your window in the Belvedere,
you gaze upon the purity of the Jungfrau. The church, too, where on Sabbath we attended Episcopal
service, is embowered in foliage, and seems like some New England village meeting house.

Monday, July 25. Adieu to Interlachen! Ho for Lucerne and the Righi! Dined at Thun in a thunder
storm. Stopped over night at Langnau, an out-of-the-way place. H. and G. painted Alpine flowers,
while I played violin. This violin must be of spotless pedigree, even as our Genevese friend,
Monsieur--, certified when he reluctantly sold it me. None but a genuine AMATI, a hundred years
old, can possess this mysterious quality, that can breathe almost inaudible, like a mornbeam
in the parlor, or predominate imperious and intense over orchestra and choir, illuminating
with its fire, like chain lightning, the arches of a vast cathedral. Enchanted thing--what
nameless spirit impregnates with magnetic ether the fine fibres of thy mechanism!

Tuesday, 26. Rode from Langnan to Lucerne just in time to take the boat for Weggis. From the
door of the Hotel de la Concorde, at Weggis, the guide chef fitted us out with two chaises
a porteur, six carriers, two mules with grooms, making a party of fourteen in all.

After ascending a while the scenery became singularly wild and beautiful. Vast walls and cliffs
of conglomerate rose above us, up which our path wound in zigzags. Below us were pines, vales,
fields, and hills, themselves large enough for mountains. There, at our feet, with its beautiful
islands, bays, capes, and headlands, gleams the broad lake of the four cantons, consecrated
by the muse of Schiller and the heroism of Tell. New plains are unrolling, new mountain tops
sinking below our range of vision. We plunged into a sea of mist. It rolled and eddied, boiling
beneath us. Through its mysterious pall we saw now a skeleton pine stretch out its dark pointing
hand--now a rock, shapeless and uncouth, far below, like a behemoth petrified in mid ocean.
Then an eddy would sweep a space for the sun to pour a flood of gold on this field far down
at our feet, on that village, on this mountain side with its rosy vapor-wreaths, upon yon distant
lake, making it a crater of blinding brightness. On we went wrapped in mantles, mist, and mystery,
trembling with chilliness and enthusiasm. We reached the summit just as the sunset-gazing crowd
were dispersing. And this is Righi Kulm!

Wednesday, 27. At half past three in the morning we were aroused by the Alpine horn. We sprang
up, groping and dressing in the dark, and went out in the frosty air. Ascending the ridge we
looked off upon a sleeping world. Mists lay beneath like waves, clouds, like a sea. On one
side the Oberland Alps stretched along the horizon their pale, blue-white peaks. Other mountains,
indistinct in color and outline, chained round the whole horizon. Yes, "the sleeping rocks
did dream" all over the wide expanse, as they slumbered on their cloudy pillow, and their dream
was of the coming dawn. Twelve lakes, leaden pale or steel blue, dreamed also under canopies
of cloud, and the solid land dreamed, and all her wilds and forests. And in the silence of
the dream already the tinge of clairvoyance lit the gray east; a dim, diffuse aurora, while
yet the long, low clouds hung lustreless above; nor could the eye prophesy where should open
the door in heaven. At length, a flush, as of shame or joy, presaged the pathway. Tongues of
many-colored light vibrated beneath the strata of clouds, now dappled, mottled, streaked with
fire; those on either hand of a light, flaky, salmon tint, those in the path and portal of
the dawn of a gorgeous blending and blazoning of golden glories. The mists all abroad stirred
uneasily. Tufts of feathery down came up out of the mass. Soft, floating films lifted from
the surface and streamed away dissolving. Strange hues came out on lake and shore, far, far
below. The air, the very air became conscious of a coming change, and the pale tops of distant
Alps sparkled like diamonds. It was night in the valleys. And we heard the cocks crowing below,
and the uneasy stir of a world preparing to awake.

Hushed the immense crowd of spectators waited; then he came. On the gray edge of the horizon,
under the emblazoned strata, came a sudden coal of fire, as shot from the altar of Heaven.
It dazzled, it wavered, it consumed. Its lambent lines lengthened sidelong. At length, not
a coal, but a shield, as the shield of Jehovah, stood above the east, and it was day. The vapor
sea heaved, and broke, and rolled up the mountain sides. The lakes flashed back the conquering
splendor. The wide panorama, asleep no more, was astir with teeming life.

Tuesday, July 28. One of the greatest curiosities in Lucerne is the monument to those brave
Swiss guards who were slain for their unshaken fidelity to the unhappy Louis XVI. In a sequestered
spot the rocky hill side is cut away, and in the living strata is sculptured the colossal figure
of a dying lion. A spear is broken off in his side, but in his last struggle he still defends
a shield, marked with the fleur de lis of France. Below are inscribed in red letters, as if
charactered in blood, the names of the brave officers of that devoted band. From many a crevice
in the rock drip down trickling springs, forming a pellucid basin below, whose dark, glossy
surface, encircled with trees and shrubs, reflects the image. The design of the monument is
by Thorwaldsen, and the whole effect of it has an inexpressible pathos.

Rode in our private voiture to Basle, and rested our weary limbs at the Three Kings.

Friday, 29. Visited the celebrities of Basle, and took the cars for Strasbourg, where we arrived
in time to visit the minster.

Saturday, 30. Left Strasbourg by the Rhine morning boat; a long, low, slender affair. The scenery
exceedingly tame, like portions of the Lower Mississippi. Disembarked at Manheim, and drove
over to Heidelberg, through a continual garden. French is useless here. All our negotiations
are in German, with W., S., and G. as a committee on gutturals.

LETTER XXXIX.

STRASBOURG.

MY DEAR:--

We arrived here this evening. I left the cars with my head full of the cathedral. The first
thing I saw, on lifting my eyes, was a brown spire. Said I,--

"C., do you think that can be the cathedral spire?"

"Yes, that must be it."

"I am afraid it is," said I, doubtfully, as I felt, within, that dissolving of airy visions
which I have generally found the first sensation on visiting any celebrated object.

The thing looked entirely too low and too broad for what I had heard of its marvellous grace
and lightness; nay, some mischievous elf even whispered the word "dumpy" hi my ear. But being
informed, in time, that this was the spire, I resisted the temptation, and determined to make
the best of it. I have since been comforted by reading in Goethe's autobiography a criticism
on its proportions quite similar to my own. We climbed the spire; we gained the roof. What
a magnificent terrace! A world itself; a panoramic view sweeping the horizon. Here I saw the
names of Goethe and Herder. Here they have walked many a time, I suppose. But the inside!--a
forest-like firmament, glorious in holiness; windows many hued as the Hebrew psalms; a gloom
solemn and pathetic as man's mysterious existence; a richness gorgeous and manifold as his
wonderful nature. In this Gothic architecture we see earnest northern races, whose nature was
a composite of influences from pine forest, mountain, and storm, expressing, in vast proportions
and gigantic masonry, those ideas of infinite duration and existence which Christianity opened
before them. A barbaric wildness mingles itself with fanciful, ornate abundance; it is the
blossoming of northern forests.

The ethereal eloquence of the Greeks could not express the rugged earnestness of souls wrestling
with those fearful mysteries of fate, of suffering, of eternal existence, declared equally
by nature and revelation. This architecture is Hebraistic in spirit, not Greek; it well accords
with the deep ground-swell of Hebrew prophets.

"Lord, thou hast been our dwelling-place in all generations.

"Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world,
even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God.

"A thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past.

"And as a watch in the night."

The objection to Gothic architecture, as compared with Greek, is, that it is less finished
and elegant. So it is. It symbolizes that state of mind too earnest for mere polish, too deeply
excited for laws of exact proportions and architectural refinement. It is Alpine architecture--vast,
wild, and sublime in its foundations, yet bursting into flowers at every interval.

The human soul seems to me an imprisoned essence, striving after somewhat divine. There is
a struggle in it, as of suffocated flame; finding vent now through poetry, now in painting,
now in music, sculpture, or architecture; various are the crevices and fissures, but the flame
is one.

Moreover, as society grows from barbarism upward, it tends to inflorescence, at certain periods,
as do plants and trees; and some races flower later than others. This architecture was the
first flowering of the Gothic race; they had no Homers; the flame found vent not by imaged
words and vitalized alphabets; they vitalized stone, and their poets were minster builders;
their epics, cathedrals.

This is why one cathedral--like Strasbourg, or Notre Dame--has a thousand fold the power of
any number of Madeleines. The Madeleine is simply a building; these are poems.

I never look at one of them without feeling that gravitation of soul towards its artist which
poetry always excites. Often the artist is unknown; here we know him; Erwin von Steinbach,
poet, prophet, priest, in architecture.

We visited his house--a house old and quaint, and to me full of suggestions and emotions. Ah,
if there be, as the apostle vividly suggests, houses not made with hands, strange splendors,
of which these are but shadows, that vast religious spirit may have been finding scope for
itself where all the forces of nature shall have been made tributary to the great conceptions
of the soul.

Save this cathedral, Strasbourg has nothing except peaked-roofed houses, dotted with six or
seven rows of gable windows.

LETTER XL.

HEIDELBERG.

MY DEAR:--

To-day we made our first essay on the Rhine. Switzerland is a poor preparation for admiring
any common scenery; but the Rhine from Strasbourg to Manheim seemed only a muddy strip of water,
with low banks, poplars, and willows. If there was any thing better, we passed it while I was
asleep; for I did sleep, even on the classic Rhine.

Day before yesterday, at Basle, I went into the museum, and there saw some original fragments
of the Dance of Death, and many other pictures by Holbein, with two miniature likenesses of
Luther and his wife, by Lucas Cranach; they are in water colors. Catharine was no beauty at
that time, if Lucas is to be trusted, and Luther looks rather savage. But I saw a book of autographs,
and several original letters of Luther's. I saw the word "Jesus" at the top of one of them,
thus, "J. U. S." The handwriting was fair, even, and delicate. I laid my hand on it, and thought
his hand also had passed over the paper which he has made living with his thoughts. Melanchthon,
of whom a far more delicate penmanship might have been expected, wrote a coarse, rugged hand,
quite like Dr. Bishop's. It somehow touched my heart to see this writing of Luther's, so fair,
and clean, and flowing; and to think of his vive and ever-surging spirits, his conflicts and
his victories.

We were awakened, about eight o'clock this morning, by the cathedral bell, which is near by,
and by the chanting of the service. It was a beautiful, sunny morning, and I could hear them
sing all the time I was dressing. I think, by the style of the singing, it was Protestant service:
it brought to mind the elms of Andover--the dewy, exquisite beauty of the Sabbath mornings
there; and I felt, more than ever, why am I seeking any thing more beautiful than home? But
today the sweet shadow of God's presence is still over me, and the sense of his love and protection
falls silently into my soul like dew.

At breakfast time Professor M. and his daughter called, as he said, to place themselves at
our disposal for the castle, or whatever we might wish to see. I intimated that we would prefer
spending the day in our New England manner of retirement--a suggestion which he took at once.

After breakfast the servant asked us if we should like to have a room commanding a view of
the castle. "To be sure," said I. So he ushered us into a large, elegantly-furnished apartment,
looking out immediately upon it. There it sat, upon its green throne, a regal, beautiful, poetic
thing, fair and sad.

We had singing and prayers, and a sermon from C. We did not go to the table d'hote, for we
abominate its long-drawn, endless formalities. But one part of the arrangements we enjoyed
without going: I mean the music. To me all music is sacred. Is it not so? All real music, in
its passionate earnest, its blendings, its wild, heart-searching tones, is the language of
aspiration. So it may not be meant, yet, when we know God, so we translate it.

In the evening we took tea with Professor M., in a sociable way, much like the salon of Paris.
Mrs. M. sat at a table, and poured out tea, which a servant passed about on a waiter. Gradually
quite a circle of people dropped in--among them Professor Mittemeyer, who, I was told, is the
profoundest lawyer in Germany; also there was Heinrich von Gagen, who was head of the convention
of the empire in 1848, and prime minister. He is tall, has a strongly-marked face, very dark
hair and eyebrows. There was also a very young man, with quite light hair, named Fisher, who,
they told me, was one of the greatest philosophers of the time; but government had taken away
his license to lecture, on account of his pantheistic principles. I understand that this has
occasioned much feeling, and that some of the professors side with, and some against him. A
lady told me that the theological professors were against him. I wonder people do not see that
this kind of suppression of opinion is a sword with two edges, which may cut orthodoxy equally
with pantheism. "Let both grow together," says Christ, "the wheat and the tares." In America
we do this, and a nodding crop of all sorts we have. The more the better; the earth must exhaust
herself before the end can come.

Mr. M. spoke English, as did his very pretty daughter, Ida; his wife only French and German.
Now, if you had only been there, we might have had quite a brilliant time; but my ignorance
of German kept me from talking with any but those who could speak English. Professor Mittemeyer
summoned English enough to make a long compliment, to which I responded as usual, by looking
very foolish. There was a well informed gentleman there, who was formerly private secretary
to Prince Albert, and who speaks English well. He has a bright, ingenious mind, and knows every
thing, and seemed particularly willing to give me the benefit of his knowledge, for which I
was suitably grateful. On the whole, I spent a very pleasant evening, and we parted about nine
o'clock, Miss Ida promising to be our guide to the castle in the morning.

Well, in the morning I was too unwell to leave the sofa. I knew the old symptoms, and remained
in my room, while Professor M. and daughter, with S, W., and G, went up to the castle. I lay
all day on the sofa, until, at five o'clock at night, I felt so much better that I thought
we might take a carriage and drive up. C. accompanied me, and cocher took us by a beautiful
drive along the valley of the Neckar, over the hills back of the castle, and finally through
the old arched gateway into the grounds. I had no idea before of the extent or the architectural
beauty of the place. The terrace behind the castle is a most lovely spot. It wanted only silence
and solitude to make it perfect; it was full of tourists, as also was each ruined nook and
arch. I sauntered about alone, for C. had a sick headache, and was forced to sit on one of
the stone benches. Heidelberg Castle is of vast extent, and various architecture; parts of
it, a guide book says, were designed by Michael Angelo. Over one door was a Hebrew inscription.
Marshalled in niches in the wall stood statues of electors and knights in armor--silent, lonely.
The effect was quite different from the old Gothic ruins I had seen. This spoke of courts,
of princes; and the pride and grandeur of the past, contrasted with the silence and desertion,
reminded me of the fable of the city of enchantment, where king and court were smitten to stone
as they stood. A mournful lion's head attracted my attention, it had such a strange, sad look;
and there was a fountain broken and full of weeds.

I looked on the carvings, the statues, the broken arches, where bluebells and wild flowers
were waving, and it seemed inexpressibly beautiful. It haunted me in my dreams, and I found
myself walking up and down that terrace, in a kind of dim, beautiful twilight, with some friend:
it was a strange dream of joy. But I felt myself very ill even while there, and had to take
my sofa again as soon as I returned. There lying, I took my pencil, and drew just the view
of the castle which I could see from my window, as a souvenir of the happiness I had felt at
Heidelberg.

Now, I know you will say with me that a day of such hazy, dreamy enjoyment is worth a great
deal. We cannot tell why it is, or what it is, but one feels like an AEolian breathed on and
touched by soft winds.

This sketch of the castle gives only about half of it. Those tiny statues indicated in it on
the points of the gables are figures in armor of large size. The two little kiosks or summer
houses that you see, you will find, by turning back to the other picture, mark the extremities
of the terrace. There is a singular tinge of the Moorish about this architecture which gives
me great delight. That Moorish development always seemed to me strangely exciting and beautiful.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

Tuesday, August 2. We leave Heidelberg with regret. At the railway station occurred our first
loss of baggage. As W. was making change in the baggage room, he missed the basket containing
our books and sundries. Unfortunately the particular word for basket had just then stepped
out. "Wo ist mein--pannier?" exclaimed he, giving them the French synonyme. They shook their
heads. "Wo ist mein--basket?" he cried, giving them English; they shook their heads still harder.
"Wo ist mein-- --" "Whew--w!" shrieked the steam whistle; "Ding a-ling-ling!" went the bell,
and, leaving his question unfinished, W. ran for the cars.

In our car was an elderly couple, speaking French. The man was evidently a quiet sort of fellow,
who, by long Caudling, had subdued--whole volcanos into dumbness within him. Little did he
think what eruption fate was preparing. II. sat opposite his hat, which he had placed on the
empty seat. There was a tower, or something, coming; H. rose, turned round, and innocently
took a seat on his chapeau. Such a voice as came out of that meekness personified!

In the twinkling of an eye--for there is a peculiar sensation which a person experiences in
sitting upon, or rather into a hat; ages are condensed into moments, and between the first
yielding of the brittle top and the final crush and jam, as between the top of a steeple and
the bottom, there is room for a life's reflection to flash through the mind--in the twinkling
of an eye H. agonizingly felt that she was sitting on a hat, that the hat was being jammed,
that it was getting flat and flatter every second, that the meek man was howling in French;
and she was just thinking of her husband and children when she started to her feet, and the
nightmare was over. The meek man, having howled out his French sentence, sat aghast, stroking
his poor hat, while his wife opposite was in convulsions, and we all agog. The gentleman then
asked H. if she proposed sitting where she was, saying, very significantly, "If you do, I'll
put my hat there;" suiting the action to the word. We did not recover from this all the way
to Frankfort.

Arrived at Frankfort we drove to the Hotel de Russie. Then, after visiting all the lions of
the place, we rode to see Dannecker's Ariadne. It is a beautiful female riding on a panther
or a tiger. The light is let in through a rosy curtain, and the flush as of life falls upon
the beautiful form. Two thoughts occurred to me; why, when we gaze upon this form so perfect,
so entirely revealed, does it not excite any of those emotions, either of shame or of desire,
which the living reality would excite? And again; why does not the immediate contact of feminine
helplessness with the most awful brute ferocity excite that horror which the sight of the same
in real life must awaken? Why, but because we behold under a spell in the transfigured world
of art where passion ceases, and bestial instincts are felt to be bowed to the law of mind,
and of ideal truth.

LETTER XLI.

DEAR:--

To-day we came to Frankfort, and this afternoon we have been driving out to see the lions,
and in the first place the house where Goethe was born. Over the door, you remember, was the
family coat of arms. Well, while we were looking I perceived that a little bird had accommodated
the crest of the coat to be his own family residence, and was flying in and out of a snug nest
wherewith he had crowned it. Little fanciful, feathery amateur! could nothing suit him so well
as Goethe's coat of arms? I could fancy the little thing to be the poet's soul come back to
have a kind of breezy hovering existence in this real world of ours--to sing, and perch, and
soar; for I think you told me that his principal grace and characteristic was an exquisite
perception and expression of physical beauty. Goethe's house was a very grand one for the times,
was it not? Now a sign in the window tells us it is used as a manufactory of porcelain.

Then we drove through the Jews' quarters. You remember how queer and old they look; they have
been much modernized since you were there. Cocher stopped before one house, and said something
in German about Rothschild, which C. said sounded like "Here Rothschild hung his boots out."
We laughed and rode on.

After this we went to the Romer, the hall that you have told me of, where the emperors were
chosen, all painted with their portraits in compartments; and I looked out on the fountain
in front, that used, on these occasions, to flow with wine. Then I walked around to see all
the emperors, and to wish I knew more about history. Charles V. is the only one of whom I have
any distinct recollection.

Then we went to a kind of museum. Cocher stopped at the door, and we heard a general sputtering
of gutturals between him, W., and G., he telling them something about Luther. I got it into
my head that the manuscript of Luther's Bible was inside; so I rushed forward. It was the public
library. A colossal statue of Goethe, by an Italian artist, was the first thing I saw. What
a head the man had I a Jupiter of a head. And what a presence! The statue is really majestic;
but was Goethe so much, really think you? That egotistical spirit shown in his Diary sets me
in doubt. Shakspeare was not self-conscious, and left no trace of egotism; if he knew himself,
he did not care to tell what he knew. Yet the heads are both great and majestic heads, and
would indicate a plenary manhood.

We went into the library, disturbing a quiet, good sort of bibliopole there, who, with some
regret, put aside his book to guide us.

"Is Luther's Bible here?" W. and G. opened on him.

"No;" but he ushered us into a cabinet.

"There are Luther's shoes!"

"Shoes!" we all exclaimed; and there was an irreverent laugh. Yes, there they were in a glass
case,--his shoes, large as life,--shoes without heels; great, clumping, thick, and black! What
an idea! However, there was a genuine picture by Lucas Cranach, and another of Catharine, by
Holbein, which gave more consolatory ideas of her person than that which I saw before at Basle.
There were also autographs of Goethe and Schiller, as well as of Luther and Melanchthon.

Our little bibliopole looked mournfully at us, as if we were wasting his time, and seemed glad
when we went out. C. thought he was huffy because we laughed at Luther's shoes; but I think
he was only yearning after his book. C. offered him a fee, but he would not take it. Going
down stairs, in the entry, I saw a picture of the infant Goethe on an eagle. We rode, also,
to see a bronze statue of him in some street or other, and I ate an ice cream there to show
my regard for him. We are delighted on the whole with Frankfort.

Now, after all, that I should forget the crown of all our seeings, Dannecker's Ariadne! It
is in a pavilion in a gentleman's garden. Could mere beauty and grace delight and fill the
soul, one could not ask for more than the Ariadne. The beautiful head, the throat, the neck,
the bust, the hand, the arm, the whole attitude, are exquisite. But after all, what is it?
No moral charm,--mere physical beauty, cold as Greek mythology. I thought of his Christ, and
did not wonder that when he had turned his art to that divine representation, he should refuse
to sculpture from classic models. "He who has sculptured a Christ cannot sculpture a Venus."

Our hotel here is very beautiful. I think it must have been some palace, for it is adorned
with fine statues, and walls of real marble. The staircase is beautiful, with brass railing,
and at the foot a marble lion on each side. The walls of my bed room are lined with green damask,
bordered by gilt bands; the attendance here is excellent. In every hotel of each large city,
there is a man who speaks English. The English language is slowly and surely creeping through.
Europe; already it rivals the universality of the French.

Two things in this city have struck me singularly, as peculiarly German: one was a long-legged
stork, which I saw standing on a chimney top, reminding me of the oft-mentioned "dear white
stork" of German stories. Why don't storks do so in America, I wonder? Another thing was, waking
suddenly in the middle of the night, and hearing the hymn of the watchman as he announced the
hour. I think this is a beautiful custom.

In the morning, I determined to get into the picture gallery. Now C., who espoused to himself
an "Amati" at Geneva, has been, like all young bridegrooms, very careless about every thing
else but his beloved, since he got it. Painting, sculpture, architecture, all must yield to
music. Nor can all the fascinations of Raphael or Rubens vie in his estimation with the melodies
of Mozart, or the harmonies of Beethoven. So, yesterday, when we found the picture gallery
shut, he profanely remarked, "What a mercy!" And this morning I could enlist none of the party
but W. to go with me. We were paid for going. There were two or three magnificent pictures
of sunrise and sunset in the Alps by modern artists. Never tell me that the old masters have
exhausted the world of landscape painting, at any rate. Am I not competent to judge because
I am not an artist? What! do not all persons feel themselves competent to pronounce on the
merits of natural landscapes, and say which of two scenes is finer? And are painters any greater
artists than God? If they say that we are not competent to judge, because we do not understand
the mixing of colors, the mysteries of foreshortening, and all that, I would ask them if they
understand how God mixes his colors? "Canst thou understand the balancing of the clouds? the
wondrous ways of Him who is perfect in wisdom?" If, therefore, I may dare to form a judgment
of God's originals, I also will dare to judge of man's imitations. Nobody shall impose old,
black, smoky Poussins and Salvator Rosas on me, and so insult my eyesight and common sense
as to make me confess they are better than pictures which I can see have all the freshness
and bloom of the living reality upon them.

So, also, a most glorious picture here. The Trial of John Huss before the Council of Constance,
by Lessing--one of the few things I have seen in painting which have had power deeply to affect
me. I have it not in my heart to criticize it as a mere piece of coloring and finish, though
in these respects I thought it had great merits. But the picture had the power, which all high
art must have, of rebuking and silencing these minor inquiries in the solemnity of its morale.
I believe the highest painter often to be the subject of a sort of inspiration, by which his
works have a vitality of suggestion, so that they sometimes bring to the beholder even more
than he himself conceived when he created them. In this picture, the idea that most impressed
me was, the representation of that more refined and subtle torture of martyrdom which consists
in the incertitude and weakness of an individual against whom is arrayed the whole weight of
the religious community. If against the martyr only the worldly and dissolute stood arrayed,
he could bear it; but when the church, claiming to be the visible representative of Christ,
casts him out; when multitudes of pious and holy souls, as yet unenlightened in their piety,
look on him with horror as an infidel and blasphemer, --then comes the very wrench of the rack.
As long as the body is strong, and the mind clear, a consciousless of right may sustain even
this; but there come weakened hours, when, worn by prison and rack, the soul asks itself, "Can
it be that all the religion and respectability of the world is wrong, and I alone right?" Such
an agony Luther expressed in that almost superhuman meditation written the night before the
Diet at Worms. Such an agony, the historian tells us, John Huss passed through the night before
his execution.

Now for the picture. The painter has arrayed, with consummate ability, in the foreground a
representation of the religious respectability of the age: Italian cardinals, in their scarlet
robes, their keen, intellectual, thoughtful faces, shadowed by their broad hats; men whom it
were no play to meet in an argument; there are gray-headed, venerable priests, and bishops
with their seal rings of office,--all that expressed the stateliness and grandeur of what Huss
had been educated to consider the true church. In the midst of them stands Huss, habited in
a simple dark robe; his sharpened features, and the yellow, corpse-like pallor of his face,
tell of prison and of suffering. He is defending himself; and there is a trembling earnestness
in the manner with which his hand grasps the Bible. With a passionate agony he seems to say,
"Am I not right? does not this word say it? and is it not the word of God?"

So have I read the moral of this noble picture, and in it I felt that I had seen an example
of that true mission of art which will manifest itself more and more in this world as Christ's
kingdom comes; art which is not a mere juggler of colors, a gymnastic display of effects, but
a solemn, inspiring poetry, teaching us to live and die for that which it noblest and truest.
I think this picture much superior to its companion, the Martyrdom of Huss, which I had already
seen in America.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

Wednesday, August 3. Frankfort to Cologne. Hurrah for the Rhine! At eleven we left the princely
palace, calling itself Hotel de Russie, whose halls are walled with marble, and adorned with
antique statues of immense value. Lo, as we were just getting into our carriage, the lost parcel!
basket, shawl, cloak, and all! We tore along to the station; rode pleasantly over to Mayenz;
made our way on board a steamer loaded down with passengers; established ourselves finally
in the centre of all things on five stools, and deposited our loose change of baggage in the cabin.

The steamer was small, narrow, and poor, though swift. Thus we began to see the Rhine under
pressure of circumstances.

The French and Germans chatted merrily. The English tourists looked conscientiously careworn.
Papa with three daughters peered alternately into the guide book, and out of the loophole in
the awning, in evident terror lest something they ought to see should slip by them. Escaping
from the jam, we made our way to the bow, carrying stools, umbrellas, and books, and there,
on the very beak of all things, we had a fine view. Duly and dutifully we admired Bingen, Cob-lentz,
Ehrenbreitstein, Bonn, Drachenfels, and all the other celebrities, and read Childe Harold on
the Rhine. Reached Cologne at nine.

Thursday, August 4. We drove to the cathedral. I shall not recapitulate Murray, nor give architectural
details. I was satisfied with what I saw and heard, and wished that so magnificent a conception,
so sublime a blossom of stone sculpture, might come to ripe maturity, not as a church, indeed,
but rather as a beautiful petrifaction, a growth of prolific, exuberant nature. Why should
not the yeasty brain of man, fermenting, froth over in such crestwork of Gothic pinnacle, spire,
and column?

The only service I appreciated was the organ and chant: hidden in the midst of forest arches
of stone, pouring forth its volumes of harmony as by unseen minstrelsy, it seemed to create
an atmosphere of sound, in which the massive columns seemed transfused,--not standing, as it
were, but floating,--not resting, as with weight of granite mountains, but growing as by a
spirit and law of development. Filled with those vast waves and undulations, the immense edifice
seemed a creature, tremulous with a life, a soul, an instinct of its own; and out of its deepest
heart there seemed to struggle upward breathings of unutterable emotion.

LETTER XLII.

COLOGNE, 10 o'clock, Hotel Bellevue.

DEAR:--

The great old city is before me, looming up across the Rhine, which lies spread out like a
molten looking glass, all quivering and wavering, reflecting the thousand lights of the city.
We have been on the Rhine all day, gliding among its picture-like scenes. But, alas I I had
a headache; the boat was crowded; one and all smoked tobacco; and in vain, under such circumstances,
do we see that nature is fair. It is not enough to open one's eyes on scenes; one must be able
to be en rapport with them. Just so in the spiritual world, we sometimes see great truths,--see
that God is beautiful, glorious, and surpassingly lovely; but at other times we feel both nature
and God, and 0, how different seeing and feeling! To say the truth, I have been quite homesick
to-day, and leaning my head on the rails, pondered an immediate flight, a giving up of all
engagements on the continent and in England, an immediate rush homeward. Does it not seem absurd,
that, when within a few days' journey of what has been the long-desired dream of my heart,
I should feel so--that I should actually feel that I had rather take some more of our pleasant
walks about Andover, than to see all that Europe has to offer?

This morning we went to the Cologne Cathedral. In the exterior of both this and Strasbourg
I was disappointed; but in the interior, who could be? There is a majesty about those up-springing
arches--those columns so light, so lofty--it makes one feel as if rising like a cloud. Then
the innumerable complications and endless perspectives, arch above arch and arch within arch,
all lighted up and colored by the painted glass, and all this filled with the waves of the
chant and the organ, rising and falling like the noise of the sea; it was one of the few overpowering
things that do not satisfy, because they transport you at once beyond the restless anxiety
to be satisfied, and leave you no time to ask the cold question, Am I pleased?

Ah, surely, I said to myself, as I walked with a kind of exultation among those lofty arches,
and saw the clouds of incense ascending, the kneeling priests, and heard the pathetic yet grand
voices of the chant--surely, there is some part in man that calls for such a service, for such
visible images of grandeur and beauty. The wealth spent on these churches is a sublime and
beautiful protest against materialism--against that use of money which merely brings supply
to the coarse animal wants of life, and which makes of God's house only a bare pen, in which
a man sits to be instructed in his duties.

Yet a moment after I had the other side of the question brought forcibly to my mind. In an
obscure corner was a coarse wooden shrine, painted red, in which was a doll dressed up in spangles
and tinsel, to represent the Virgin, and hung round with little waxen effigies of arms, hands,
feet, and legs, to represent, I suppose, some favor which had been accorded to these members
of her several votaries through her intercessions. Before this shrine several poor people were
kneeling, with clasped hands and bowed heads, praying with an earnestness which was sorrowful
to see. "They have taken away their Lord, and they know not where they have laid him." Such
is the end of this superb idolatry in the illiterate and the poor.

Yet if we could, would we efface from the world such cathedrals as Strasbourg and Cologne?
I discussed the question of outward pomp and ritual with myself while I was walking deliberately
round a stone balustrade on the roof of the church, and looking out through the flying buttresses,
upon the broad sweep of the Rhine, and the queer, old-times houses and spires of the city.
I thought of the splendors of the Hebrew ritual and temple, instituted by God himself. I questioned
where was the text in the gospel that forbade such a ritual, provided it were felt to be desirable;
and then I thought of the ignorance and stupid idolatry of those countries where this ritual
is found in greatest splendor, and asked whether these are the necessary concomitants of such
churches and such forms, or whether they do not result from other causes. The Hebrew ritual,
in a far more sensuous age, had its sculptured cherubim, its pictorial and artistic wealth
of representation, its gorgeous priestly vestments, its incense, and its chants; and they never
became, so far as we know, the objects of idolatrous veneration.

But I love to go back over and over the scenes of that cathedral; to look up those arches that
seem to me, in their buoyant lightness, to have not been made with hands, but to have shot
up like an enchantment--to have risen like an aspiration, an impersonation of the upward sweep
of the soul, in its loftiest moods of divine communion. There were about five minutes of feeling,
worth all the discomforts of getting here; and it is only for some such short time that we
can enjoy--then our prison door closes.

There are four painted glass windows, given by the King of Bavaria. I have got for H. the photograph
of two of them, representing the birth and death of Christ. They are gorgeous paintings by
the first masters. The windows round the choir were painted in a style that reminded me of
our forests in autumn.

Well, after our sublimities came a farce. We went to St. Ursula's church, to see the bones
of the eleven thousand virgins, who, the chronicle says, were slain here because they would
not break their vows of chastity. I was much amused. As we entered the church, C. remarked
impressively, "It is evident that these virgins have no connection with cologne water!" The
fact was lamentably apparent. Doleful looking figures of virgins, painted in all the colors
of the rainbow, were looking down upon us from all quarters; and in front, in a glass frame,
was a bill of fare, in French, of the relics which could be served up to order. C. read the
list aloud, and then we proceeded to a small side room to see the exhibition. The upper portion
of the walls was covered with small bones, strung on wires and arranged in a kind of fanciful
arabesque, much as shell boxes are made; and the lower part was taken up with busts in silver
and gold gilding, representing still the interminable eleven thousand. A sort of cupboard door
half opened showed the shelves all full of skulls, adorned with little satin caps, coronets,
and tinsel jewelry; which skulls, we were informed, were the original head-pieces of the same
redoubtable females.

At the other end of the room was a raised stage, where the most holy relics of all were being
displayed, under the devout eye of a priest in a long, black robe. C. and I went upon the stage
to be instructed. S., whom the aforesaid lack of cologne water in the establishment had rendered
peculiarly unpropitious, stood at a majestic distance; but C., assuming an air of profound
faith, stood up to be initiated.

"That," says the priest, in a plaintive voice, pitched to the exact point between lamentation
and veneration, "is the ring of St. Ursula."

"Indeed," says C., "her ring!"

"Yes," says the priest, "it was found in her tomb."

"It was found in her tomb--only think!" says C., turning gravely to me. I had to look another
way, while the priest proceeded to introduce, by name, four remarkably yellow skulls, with
tastefully trimmed red caps on, as those of St. Ursula and sundry of her most intimate friends.
S. looked gloriously indignant, and C. increasingly solemn.

"Dere," said the priest, opening an ivory box, in which was about a quart of teeth of different
sizes, "dere is de teeth of the eleven thousand."

"Indeed," echoes C., "their teeth!"

S., at this, waxed magnificent, and, as a novel writer would say, swept from the apartment.
I turned round, shaking with laughter, while the priest went on.

"Dere is a rib of St. ----."

"Ah, his rib; indeed!"

"And dere is de arrow as pierced the heart of St. Ursula."

"H.," says C., "here is the arrow that killed St. Ursula." (The wicked scamp knew I was laughing!)

"Dere is the net that was on her hair."

"This is what she wore on her hair, then," says C., eyeing the rag with severe and melancholy
gravity.

"And here is some of the blood of the martyr Stephen," says the priest, holding a glass case
with some mud in it.

In the same way he showed two thorns from the crown of Christ, and a piece of the Virgin's
petticoat.

"And here is the waterpot of stone, in which our Lord made the wine at the marriage in Cana."

"Indeed," said C., examining it with great interest; "where are the rest of them?"

"The rest?" says the priest.

"Yes; I think there were six of them; where are they?"

The priest only went over the old story. "This came from Rome, and the piece broken out of
the side is at Rome yet."

It is to be confessed that I felt in my heart, through this disgusting recital, some of S.'s
indignation; and I could not help agreeing with her that the odor of sanctity, as generally
developed in the vicinity, was any thing but agreeable. I did long to look that man once steadily
in the eyes, to see if he was such a fool as he pretended; but the ridiculousness of the whole
scene overcame me so that I could not look up, and I marched out in silence. The whole church
is equally full of virgins. The altar piece is a vast picture of the slaughter, not badly painted.
Through various glass openings you perceive that the walls are full of the bones and skulls.
Did the worship of Egypt ever sink lower in horrible and loathsome idolatry? I had heard of
such things; but it is one thing to hear of them, and another to see them by the light of this
nineteenth century, in a city whose streets look much like the streets of any other, and where
men and women appear much as they do any where else. Here we saw, in one morning, the splendor
and the rottenness of the Romish system. From those majestic arches, that triumphant chant,
there is but a step down to the worship of dead men's bones and all uncleanness.

We went also into the Jesuits' church. The effect, to my eye, was that of a profusion of tawdry,
dirty ornament; only the railing of the choir, which was a splendid piece of carving, out from
a single block of Carrara marble.

The guide book prescribes, I think, no less than half a dozen churches in Cologne as a dose
for the faithful; but we were satisfied with these three, and went back to our hotel. As a
general thing I would not recommend more than three churches on an empty stomach.

The outer wall of Cologne is a very fine specimen of fortification, (I am quoting my guide
book,) and we got a perfect view of it in crossing the bridge of boats to return to our hotel.
Why they have a bridge of boats here I cannot say; perhaps on account of the width and swiftness
of the river.

Having heard so much of the dirt and vile smells of Cologne, I was surprised that our drive
took us through streets no way differing from those of most other cities, and, except in the
vicinity of the eleven thousand virgins, smelling no worse. Still, there may be vile, ill-smelling
streets; but so there are in Edinburgh, London, and New York.

From Cologne we went, at four o'clock, to Dusseldorf, a little town, celebrated for the head
quarters of the Dusseldorf school of painting. I cannot imagine why they chose this town for
a school of the fine arts, as it is altogether an indifferent, uninteresting place. It is about
an hour's ride from Cologne. We arrived there in time to go into the exhibition of the works
of the artists, which is open all summer. I don't know how good a specimen it is, but I thought
it rather indifferent. There were some few paintings that interested me, but nothing equal
to those. I have seen in the Dusseldorf gallery at home. Whittridge lives there, but, unfortunately,
was gone for eight days.

Our hotel was pleasant--opening on a walk shaded by double rows of trees. We ordered a nice
little tea in our room, arid waxed quite merry over it.

This morning we started at seven, and here we are to-night in Leipsic--as uninteresting a country
as I have seen yet. Moreover, we had passed beyond the limits of our Rhine guide book, and
as yet had no other, and so did not know any thing about the few objects of interest which
presented themselves. The railroads, of course, persist in their invariable habit of running
you up against a dead wall, so that you see nothing where you stop.

The city of Magdeburg is the only interesting object I have seen. I had a fair view of its
cathedral, which I think, though not so imposing, yet as picturesque and beautiful as any I
remember to have seen; and its old wall, too. We changed cars here, going through the wall
into the city, and I saw just enough to make me wish to see more; and now to-night we are in
Leipsic.

Morning. We are going out now, and I must mail this letter. To-morrow we spend at Halle.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

Friday, August 5. Dusseldorf to Leipsic, three hundred and seventy-three miles. A very level
and apparently fertile country. If well governed it ought to increase vastly in riches.

Saturday, August 6. Called at the counting house of M. Tauchnitz, the celebrated publisher.
An hour after, accompanied by Mrs. T., he came with two open carriages, and took us to see
the city and environs. We visited the battle ground, and saw the spot where Napoleon stood
during the engagement; a slight elevation, commanding an immense plain in every direction,
with the spires of the city rising in the distance. After seeing various sights of interest,
we returned to our hotel, where our kind friends took their leave. In the afternoon M. Tauchnitz
sent H. a package of his entertaining English publications, to read in the cars, also a Murray
for Germany. H. and I then took the cars for Halle, where we hoped to spend the Sabbath and
meet with Dr. Tholuck. Travellers sometimes visit Chamouni without seeing Mont Blanc, who remains
enveloped in clouds during their stay. So with us. In an hour we were in rooms at the Kron
Prince. We sent a note to the professor; the waiter returned, saying that Dr. Tholuck was at
Kissengen. Our theological Mont Blanc was hid in mist. Blank enough looked we!

"H., is there no other professor we want to see?"

"I believe not."

Pensively she read one of the Tauchnitz Library. Plaintively my Amati sighed condolence.

"H." said I, "perhaps we might reach Dresden to-night."

"Do you think so? Is it possible? Is there a train?"

"We can soon ascertain."

"How amazed they would look!"

We summoned the maitre d'hotel, ordered tea, paid, packed, raced, ran, and hurried, presto,
prestissimo, into a car half choked with voyagers, changed lines at Leipsic, and shot off to
Dresden. By deep midnight we were thundering over the great stone Pont d'Elbe, to the Hotel
de Saxe, where, by one o'clock, we were lost in dreams.

In the morning the question was, how to find our party.

"Waiter, bring me a directory."

"There is no directory, sir."

"No directory? Then how shall we contrive to find our friends?"

"Monsieur has friends residing in Dresden?"

"No, no! our party that came last night from Leipsic."

"At what hotel do they stop?"

"That is precisely what I wish to find out."

"Will monsieur allow me to give their description to the police?"

(0, ho, thought I; that is your directory, is it? Wonder if that is the reason you have none
printed.) "Non, merci," said I, and set off on foot to visit the principal hotels. I knew they
would go by Murray or Bradshaw, and lo, sure enough they were at the Hotel Bellevue, just sitting
down to breakfast. S. started as if she had seen a ghost.

"Why, where did you come from? What has happened? Where is H.? We thought you were in Halle!"

Explanations followed. H. was speedily transferred to their hotel, where they had bespoken
rooms for us; and we sallied forth to the court church to hear the music of high mass.

This music is celebrated throughout Germany. It is, therefore, undoubtedly superior. The organ
is noble, the opera company royal. But more perfect than all combined are the echoes of the
church, which (though the guide book does not mention it) nullify every effect.

Monday, 8. Visited the walks and gardens on the banks of the Elbe. The sky was clear, the weather
glorious, and all nature full of joy. We almost think this Elbe another Seine; these Bruhlsche
gardens and terraces, these majestic old bridges, and cleft city, another Paris! Here, too,
is that out-of-doors life, life in gardens, we admire so much. Breakfast in the public gardens;
hundreds of little groups sipping their coffee! Dinner, tea, and supper in the gardens, with
music of birds and bands!

Visited the Picture Gallery. If one were to chance upon an altar in this German Athens inscribed
to the "unknown god," he might be tempted to suggest that that deity's name is Decency.

The human form is indeed divine, as M. Belloc insists, and rightly, sacredly drawn, cannot
offend the purest eye. All nature is symbolic. The universe itself is a complex symbol of spiritual
ideas. So in the structure and relation of the human body, some of the highest spiritual ideas,
the divinest mysteries of pure worship, are designedly shadowed forth.

If, then, the painter rightly and sacredly conceives the divine meaning, and creates upon the
canvas, or in marble, forms of exalted ideal loveliness, we cannot murmur even if, like Adam
and Eve in Eden, "they are naked, and are not ashamed."

And yet even sacred things love mystery, and holiest emotions claim reserve. Nature herself
seems to tell us that the more sacred some works of art might be, the less they should be unveiled.
There are flowers that will wither in the sun The passion of love, when developed according
to the divine order, is, even in its physical relations, so holy that it cannot retain its
delicacy under the sultry blaze of profane publicity.

But it is far otherwise with paintings where the animus is not sacred, nor the meaning spiritual.
No excellences of coloring, no marvels of foreshortening, no miracles of mechanism can consecrate
the salacious images of mythologic abomination.

The cheek that can forget to blush at the Venus and Cupid by Titian, at Leda and her Swan,
at Jupiter and Io, and others of equally evil intent, ought never to pretend to blush at any
thing. Such pictures are a disgrace to the artists that painted, to the age that tolerates,
and to the gallery that contains them. They are fit for a bagnio rather than a public exhibition.

Evening. Dresden is the home of Madame Jenny Lind Goldschmidt. H. sent her card. This evening
Mr. G. called to express regret that she was unable to see any one, on account of her recent
confinement. He kindly offered us the use of his carriage and assistance in sightseeing. H.
discussed with him the catalogues of the gallery of paintings. As to music, we learn, with
regret, that it is out of season for concerts, oratorios, or any thing worth hearing.

Wednesday, August 10. Dresden to Berlin. Drove to Charlottenburg, and saw the monument of Queen
Louisa.

Thursday, 11. Visited the Picture Gallery, and various stores and shops.

Saturday, August 13. Berlin to Wittenberg, two hours' ride. Examined the Schloss-Kirche, where
Luther is buried, passing on our way through the public square containing his monument.

At nine in the evening took cars for Erfurt. That night ride, with the moon and one star hanging
beautifully over the horizon, was pleasant. There is a wild and thrilling excitement in thus
plunging through the mysterious night in a land utterly unknown. Reached Erfurt at two in the
morning.

Monday, August 15. Erfurt to Eisenach by eight. Drove to the Wartburg.

LETTER XLIII.

DRESDEN.

DEAR:--

I went to Dresden as an art-pilgrim, principally to see Raphael's great picture of the Madonna
di San Sisto, supposing that to be the best specimen of his genius out of Italy. On my way
I diligently studied the guide book of that indefatigable friend of the traveller, Mr. Murray,
in which descriptions of the finest pictures are given, with the observations of artists; so
that inexperienced persons may know exactly what to think, and where to think it. My expectations
had been so often disappointed, that my pulse was somewhat calmer. Nevertheless, the glowing
eulogiums of these celebrated artists could not but stimulate anticipation. We made our way,
therefore, first to the salon devoted to the works of Raphael and Correggio, and soon found
ourselves before the grand painting. Trembling with eagerness, I looked up. Was that the picture?
W. whispered to me, "I think we have mistaken the painting."

"No, we have not," said I, struggling to overcome the disappointment which I found creeping
over me. The source of this disappointment was the thin and faded appearance of the coloring,
which at first suggested to me the idea of a water-colored sketch. It had evidently suffered
barbarously in the process of cleaning, a fact of which I had been forewarned. This circumstance
has a particularly unfavorable effect on a picture of Raphael's, because his coloring, at best,
is delicate and reserved, and, as compared with, that of Rubens, approaches to poverty; so
that he can ill afford to lose any thing in this way.

Then as to conception and arrangement, there was much which annoyed me. The Virgin and Child
in the centre are represented as rising in the air; on one side below them is the kneeling
figure of Pope Sixtus; and on the other, that of St. Barbara. Now this Pope Sixtus is, in my
eyes, a very homely old man, and as I think no better of homely old men for being popes, his
presence in the picture is an annoyance. St. Barbara, on the other side, has the most beautiful
head and face that could be represented; but then she is kneeling on a cloud with such a judicious
and coquettish arrangement of her neck, shoulders, and face, to show every fine point in them,
as makes one feel that no saint (unless with a Parisian education) could ever have dropped
into such a position in the abandon of holy rapture. In short, she looks like a theatrical
actress; without any sympathy with the solemnity of the religious conception, who is there
merely because a beautiful woman was wanted to fill up the picture.

Then that old, faded green curtain, which is painted as hanging down on either side of the
picture, is, to my eye, a nuisance. The whole interest, therefore, of the piece concentrates
in the centre figures, the Madonna and Child, and two angel children gazing up from the foot
of the picture. These angel children were the first point on which my mind rested, in its struggle
to overcome its disappointment, and bring itself en rapport with the artist. In order fully
to appreciate their spiritual beauty, one must have seen an assortment of those things called
angels, which occur in the works of the old masters. Generally speaking, I know of nothing
more calculated to moderate any undue eagerness to go to heaven than the common run of canvas
angels. Far the greater part are roistering, able-bodied fellows with wings, giving indisputable
signs of good living, and of a coarseness slightly suggestive of blackguardism. Far otherwise
with these fair creatures, with their rainbow-colored wings, and their serene, upturned eyes
of thought baptized with emotion. They are the first things I have seen worthy of my ideas
of Raphael.

As to the Madonna, I think that, when Wilkie says she is "nearer the perfection of female elegance
and grace than any thing in painting," he does not speak with discrimination. Mere physical
beauty and grace are not the characteristics of the figure: many more perfect forms can be
found, both on canvas and in marble. But the merits of the figure, to my mind, are, first,
its historic accuracy in representing the dark-eyed Jewish maiden; second, the wonderful fulness
and depth of expression thrown into the face; and third, the mysterious resemblance and sympathy
between the face of the mother and that of the divine child. To my eye, this picture has precisely
that which Murillo's Assumption in the Louvre wants: it has an unfathomable depth of earnestness.
The Murillo is its superior in coloring and grace of arrangement. At first sight of the Murillo
every one exclaims at once, "Plow beautiful!"--at sight of this they are silent. Many are at
first disappointed; but the picture fastens the attention, and grows upon the thoughts; while
that of Murillo is dismissed with the words of admiration on the lips.

This picture excited my ponderings and inquiries. There was a conflict of emotion in that mother's
face, and shadowed mysteriously in the child's, of which I queried, "Was it fear? was it sorrow?
was it adoration and faith? was it a presage of the hour when a sword should pierce through
her own soul? Yet, with this, was there not a solemn triumph in the thought that she alone,
of all women, had been called to that baptism of anguish? And in that infant face there seemed
a foreshadowing of the spirit which said, "Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father,
save me from this hour? But for this cause came I unto this hour."

The deep-feeling soul which conceived this picture has spread over the whole divine group a
tender and transparent shadow of sorrow. It is this idea of sorrow in heaven--sorrow, for the
lost, in the heart of God himself--which forms the most sacred mystery of Christianity; and
into this innermost temple of sorrow had Raphael penetrated. He is a sacred poet, and his poetry
has precisely that trait which Milton lacks--tenderness and sympathy. This picture, so unattractive
to the fancy in merely physical recommendations, has formed a deeper part of my inner consciousness
than any I have yet seen. I can recall it with perfect distinctness, and often return to ponder
it in my heart.

In this room there was also the chef-d'luvre of Correggio--his celebrated Notte, or the Nativity
of Jesus; and, that you may know what I ought to have thought, I will quote you a sentence
from Wilkie. "All the powers of art are here united to make a perfect work. Here the simplicity
of the drawing of the Virgin and Child is shown in contrast with the foreshortening of the
group of angels--the strongest unity of effect with the most perfect system of intricacy. The
emitting the light from the body of the child, though a supernatural illusion, is eminently
successful. The matchless beauty of the Virgin and Child, the group of angels overhead, the
daybreak in the sky, and the whole arrangement of light and shadow, give it a right to be considered,
in conception at least, the greatest of his works."

I said before that light and shadow were Correggio's gods--that the great purpose for which
he lived, moved, and had his being, was to show up light and shadow. Now, so long as he paints
only indifferent objects,--Nymphs, and Fauns, and mythologic divinities,--I had no objection.
Light and shadow are beautiful things, capable of a thousand blendings, softenings, and harmonizings,
which one loves to have represented: the great Artist of all loves light and shadow; why else
does he play such a magical succession of changes upon them through all creation? But for an
artist to make the most solemn mystery of religion a mere tributary to the exhibition of a
trick of art, is a piece of profanity. What was in this man's head when he painted this representation
of the hour when his Maker was made flesh that he might redeem a world? Nothing but chiaro-scuro
and foreshortening. This overwhelming scene would give him a fine chance to do two things:
first, to represent a phosphorescent light from the body of the child; and second, to show
off some foreshortened angels. Now, as to these angels, I have simply to remark that I should
prefer a seraph's head to his heels; and that a group of archangels, kicking from the canvas
with such alarming vigor, however much it may illustrate foreshortening, does not illustrate
either glory to God in the highest, or peace on earth and good will to men. Therefore I have
quarrelled with Correggio, as I always expected to do if he profaned the divine mysteries.
How could any one, who had a soul to understand that most noble creation of Raphael, turn,
the next moment, to admire this?

Here also are six others of Correggio's most celebrated paintings. They are all mere representations
of the physical, with little of the moral. His picture of the Virgin and Child represents simply
a very graceful, beautiful woman, holding a fine little child. His peculiar excellences in
the management of his lights and shades appear in all.

In one of the halls we found a Magdalen by Battoni, which gave me more pleasure, on first sight,
than any picture in the gallery. It is a life-sized figure of the Magdalen stretched upon the
ground, reading an open Bible. I like it, first, because the figure is every way beautiful
and well proportioned; second, on account of an elevated simplicity hi the arrangement and
general effect. The dark, rocky background throws out distinctly the beautiful figure, raised
on one elbow, her long, golden hair floating loosely down, as she bends forward over her book
with parted lips, slightly flushed cheek, and an air of rapt and pleased attention. Though
the neck and bosom are exposed, yet there is an angelic seriousness and gravity in the conception
of the piece which would check an earthly thought. The woman is of that high class about whom
there might seem to be a hovering angelic presence--the perfection of beauty and symmetry,
without a tinge of sensual attraction.

All these rooms are full of artists copying different paintings,--some upon slabs of Dresden
china,--producing pictures of exquisite, finish, and very pretty as boudoir ornaments.

After exhausting this first room, we walked through the galleries, which I will name, to give
you some idea of their extent.

Two rooms, of old German and Dutch masters, are curious,--as exhibiting the upward struggles
of art. Many of the pictures are hard as a tavern sign, and as ill drawn; but they mark the
era of dawning effort.

Then a long corridor of Dutch paintings, in which Rubens figures conspicuously, displaying,
as usual, all manner of scarlet abominations, mixed with most triumphant successes. He has
a boar hunt here, which is absolutely terrific. Rubens has a power peculiar to himself of throwing
into the eyes of animals the phosphorescent magnetic gleam of life and passion. Here also was
a sketch of his for a large picture at Munich of the Last Judgment, in which the idea of physical
torture is enlarged upon with a most revolting vigor of imagery.

Then a small room devoted to the Spanish and Italian schools, containing pictures by Murillo
and Velasquez. Then the French hall, where were two magnificent Claudes, the finest I had yet
seen. They were covered with glass, (a bad arrangement,) which rendered one of them almost
entirely unseeable. I studied these long, with much interest. The combinations were poetical,
the foregrounds minutely finished, even to the painting of flowers, and the fine invisible
veil of ether that covers the natural landscape given as I have never before seen it. The peculiarity
of these pieces is, that they are painted in green--a most common arrangement in God's landscapes,
but very uncommon in those of great masters. Painters give us trees and grounds, brown, yellow,
red, chocolate, any color, in short, but green. The reason of this is, that green is an exceedingly
difficult color to manage. I have seen, sometimes, in spring, set against a deep-blue sky,
an array of greens, from lightest yellow to deepest blue of the pines, tipped and glittering
with the afternoon's sun, yet so swathed in some invisible, harmonizing medium, that the strong
contrasts of color jarred upon no sense. All seemed to be bound by the invisible cestus of
some celestial Venus. Yet what painter would dare attempt the same? Herein lies the particular
triumph of Claude. It is said that he took his brush and canvas into the fields, and there
studied, hour after hour, into the mysteries of that airy medium which lies between the eye
and the landscape, as also between the foreground and the background. Hence he, more than others,
succeeds in giving the green landscape and the blue sky the same effect that God gives them.
If, then, other artists would attain a like result, let them not copy Claude, but Claude's
Master. Would that our American artists would remember that God's pictures are nearer than
Italy. To them it might be said, (as to the Christian,) "The word is nigh thee." When we shall
see a New England artist, with his easel, in the fields, seeking, hour after hour, to reproduce
on the canvas the magnificent glories of an elm, with its firmament of boughs and branches,--when
he has learned that there is in it what is worth a thousand Claudes--then the morning star
of art will have risen on our hills. God send us an artist with a heart to reverence his own
native mountains and fields, and to veil his face in awe when the great Master walks before
his cottage door. When shall arise the artist whose inspiration shall be in prayer and in communion
with God?--whose eye, unsealed to behold his beauty in the natural world, shall offer up, on
canvas, landscapes which shall be hymns and ascriptions?

By a strange perversity, people seem to think that the Author of nature cannot or will not
inspire art; but "He that formed the eye, shall he not see? he that planted the ear, shall
he not hear?" Are not God's works the great models, and is not sympathy of spirit with the
Master necessary to the understanding of the models?

But to continue our walk. We entered another Dutch apartment, embellished with works by Dietrich,
prettily colored, and laboriously minute; then into a corridor devoted chiefly to the works
of Rembrandt and scholars. In this also were a number of those minute culinary paintings, in
which cabbages, brass kettles, onions, potatoes, &c., are reproduced with praiseworthy industry.
Many people are enraptured with these; but for my part I have but a very little more pleasure
in a turnip, onion, or potato in a picture than out, and always wish that the industry and
richness of color had been bestowed upon things in themselves beautiful. The great Master,
it is true, gives these models, but he gives them not to be looked at, but eaten. If painters
could only contrive to paint vegetables (cheaply) so that they could be eaten, I would be willing.

Two small saloons are next devoted to the modern Dutch and German school. In these is Denner's
head of an old woman, which Cowper celebrates in a pretty poem--a marvel of faithful reproduction.
One would think the old lady must have sat at least a year, till he had daguerreotyped every
wrinkle and twinkle. How much better all this labor spent on the head of a good old woman than
on the head of a cabbage!

And now come a set of Italian rooms, in which we have some curious specimens of the Romish
development in religion; as, for instance, the fathers Gregory, Augustine, and Jerome, meditating
on the immaculate conception of the Virgin. Think of a painter employing all his powers in
representing such a fog bank!

Next comes a room dedicated to the works of Titian, in which two nude Venuses, of a very different
character from the de Milon, are too conspicuous. Titian is sensuous; a Greek, but not of the
highest class.

The next room is devoted to Paul Veronese. This Paul has quite a character of his own--a grand
old Venetian, with his head full of stateliness, and court ceremony, and gorgeous conventionality,
half Oriental in his passion for gold, and gems, and incense. As a specimen of the subjects
in which his soul delights, take the following, which he has wrought up into a mammoth picture:
Faith, Love, and Hope, presenting to the Virgin Mary a member of the old Venetian family of
Concina, who, after having listened to the doctrines of the reformation, had become reconciled
to the church. Here is Paul's piety, naively displayed by giving to the Virgin all the courtly
graces of a high-born signorina. He paints, too, the Adoration of the Magi, because it gives
such a good opportunity to deal with camels, jewels, turbans, and all the trappings of Oriental
royalty. The Virgin and Child are a small part of the affair. I like Paul because he is so
innocently unconscious of any thing deep to be expressed; so honestly intent on clothes, jewels,
and colors. He is a magnificent master of ceremonies, and ought to have been kept by some king
desirous of going down to posterity, to celebrate his royal praise and glory.

Another room is devoted to the works of Guido. One or two of the Ecce Homo are much admired.
To me they are, as compared with my conceptions of Jesus, more than inadequate. It seems to
me that, if Jesus Christ should come again on earth, and walk through a gallery of paintings,
and see the representations of sacred subjects, he would say again, as he did of old in the
temple, "Take these things hence!"

How could men who bowed down before art as an idol, and worshipped it as an ultimate end, and
thus sensualized it, represent these holy mysteries, into which angels desired to look?

There are many representations of Christ here, set forth in the guide book as full of grace
and majesty, which, any soul who has ever felt his infinite beauty would reject as a libel.
And as to the Virgin Mother, one's eye becomes wearied in following the countless catalogue
of the effeminate inane representations.

There is more pathos and beauty in those few words of the Scripture, "Now there stood by the
cross of Jesus his mother," than in all these galleries put together. The soul that has learned
to know her from the Bible, loving without idolizing, hoping for blest communion with her beyond
the veil, seeking to imitate only the devotion which stood by the cross in the deepest hour
of desertion, cannot be satisfied with these insipidities.

Only once or twice have I seen any thing like an approach towards the representations of the
scriptural idea. One is this painting by Raphael. Another is by him, and is called Madonna
Maison d'Alba: of this I have seen only a copy; it might have been painted on the words, "Now
Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart." The figure is that of a young
Jewess, between girl and womanhood, in whose air and eye are expressed at once the princess
of the house of David, the poetess, and the thoughtful sequestered maiden. She is sitting on
the ground, the book of the prophets in one hand, lying listless at her side; the other hand
is placed beneath the chin of her infant son, who looks inquiringly into her face. She does
not see him--her eye has a sorrowful, far-darting look, as if beyond this flowery childhood
she saw the dim image of a cross and a sepulchre. This was Mary, I have often thought that,
in the reaction from the idolatry of Romanism, we Protestants were in danger of forgetting
the treasures of religious sweetness, which the Bible has given us in her brief history.

It seems to me the time demands the forming of a new school of art based upon Protestant principles.
For whatever vigor and originality there might once be in art, based on Romanism, it has certainly
been worn threadbare by repetition.

Apropos to this. During the time I was in Paris, I formed the acquaintance of Schoeffer, whose
Christus Consolator and Remumrator and other works, have made him known in America. I went
with a lady who has for many years been an intimate friend, and whose head has been introduced
into several of his paintings. On the way she gave me some interesting particulars of him and
his family. His mother was an artist--a woman of singularly ethereal and religious character.
There are three brothers devoted to art; of these Ary is the one best known in America, and
the most distinguished. For some time, while they were studying, they were obliged to be separated,
and the mother, to keep up the sympathy between them, used to copy the design of the one with
whom she resided for the other two. A singular strength of attachment unites the family.

We found Schoeffer in retired lodgings in the outskirts of Paris, and were presented to his
very pretty and agreeable English wife. In his studio we saw a picture of his mother, a most
lovely and delicate woman, dressed in white, like one of the saints in the Revelation.

Then we saw his celebrated picture, Francisca Rimini, representing a cloudy, dark, infernal
region, in which two hapless lovers are whirled round and round in mazes of never-ending wrath
and anguish. His face is hid from view; his attitude expresses the extreme of despair. But
she clinging to his bosom--what words can tell the depths of love, of an anguish, and of endurance
unconquerable, written in her pale sweet face! The picture smote to my heart like a dagger
thrust; I felt its mournful, exquisite beauty as a libel on my Father in heaven.

No. It is not God who eternally pursues undying, patient love with storms of vindictive wrath.
Alas! well said Jesus, "O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee." The day will come
when it will appear that in earth's history the sorrowing, invincible tenderness has been all
on his part and that the strange word, long-suffering, means just what it says.

Nevertheless, the power and pathos of this picture cannot be too much praised. The coloring
is beautiful, and though it pained me so much, I felt that it was one of the most striking
works of art I had seen.

Schoeffer showed us a large picture, about half finished, in which he represents the gradual
rise of the soul through the sorrows of earth to heaven. It consisted of figures grouped together,
those nearest earth bowed down and overwhelmed with the most crushing and hopeless sorrow;
above them are those who are beginning to look upward, and the sorrow in their faces is subsiding
into anxious inquiry; still above them are those who, having caught a gleam of the sources
of consolation, express in their faces a solemn calmness; and still higher, rising in the air,
figures with clasped hands, and absorbed, upward gaze, to whose eye the mystery has been unveiled,
the enigma solved, and sorrow glorified. One among these, higher than the rest, with a face
of rapt adoration, seems entering the very gate of heaven.

He also showed us an unfinished picture of the Temptation of Christ. Upon a clear aerial mountain
top, Satan, a thunder-scarred, unearthly figure, kneeling, points earnestly to the distant
view of the kingdoms of this world. There is a furtive and peculiar expression of eager anxiety
betrayed in his face, as if the bitterness of his own blasted eternity could find a momentary
consolation in this success. It is the expression of a general, who has staked all his fortune
on one die. Of the figure of Jesus I could not judge, in its unfinished state. Whether the
artist will solve the problem of uniting energy with sweetness, the Godhead with the manhood,
remains to be seen.

The paintings of Jesus are generally unsatisfactory; but Schoefier has approached nearer towards
expressing my idea than any artist I have yet seen.

The knowing ones are much divided about Schoeffer. Some say he is no painter. Nothing seems
to me so utterly without rule or compass as this world of art Divided into little cliques,
each with his shibboleth, artists excommunicate each other as heartily as theologians, and
a neophyte who should attempt to make up a judgment by their help would be obliged to shift
opinions with every circle.

I therefore look with my own eyes, for if not the best that might be, they are the best that
God has given me.

Schoeffer is certainly a poet of a high order. His ideas are beautiful and religious, and his
power of expression quite equal to that of many old masters, who had nothing very particular
to express.

I should think his chief danger lay in falling into mannerism, and too often repeating the
same idea. He has a theory of coloring which is in danger of running out into coldness and
poverty of effect. His idea seems to be, that in the representation of spiritual subjects the
artist should avoid the sensualism of color, and give only the most chaste and severe tone.
Hence he makes much use of white, pale blue, and cloudy grays, avoiding the gorgeousness of
the old masters. But it seems probable that in the celestial regions there is more, rather
than less, of brilliant coloring than on earth. What can be more brilliant than the rainbow,
yet what more perfectly free from earthly grossness? Nevertheless, in looking at the pictures
of Schoeffer there is such a serene and spiritual charm spread over them, that one is little
inclined to wish them other than they are. No artist that I have ever seen, not even Raphael,
has more power of glorifying the human face by an exalted and unearthly expression. His head
of Joan of Arc, at Versailles, is a remarkable example. It is a commentary on that scripture--"And
they beheld his face, as it were the face of an angel."

Schoeffer is fully possessed with the idea of which I have spoken, of raising Protestant art
above the wearisome imitations of Romanism. The object is noble and important. I feel that
he must succeed.

His best award is in the judgments of the unsophisticated heart. A painter who does not burn
incense to his palette and worship his brushes, who reverences ideas above mechanism, will
have all manner of evil spoken against him by artists, but the human heart will always accept him.

LETTER XLIV.

BERLIN, August 10.

MY DEAR:--

Here we are in Berlin--a beautiful city. These places that kings build, have of course, more
general uniformity and consistency of style than those that grow up by chance. The prevalence
of the Greek style of architecture, the regularity and breadth of the streets, the fine trees,
especially in the Unter den Linden, on which are our rooms, struck me more than any thing I
have seen since Paris. Why Paris charms me so much more than other cities of similar recommendations,
I cannot say, any more than a man can tell why he is fascinated by a lady love no fairer to
his reason than a thousand others. Perhaps it is the reflected charm of the people I knew there,
that makes it seem so sunny.

This afternoon we took a guide, and went first through the royal palace. The new chapel, which
is being built by the present prince, is circular in form, with a dome one hundred and thirty
feet high. The space between the doors is occupied by three circular recesses, with figures
of prophets and apostles in fresco. Over one door is the Nativity,--over the other, the Resurrection,--also
in fresco. On the walls around were pictures somewhat miscellaneous, I thought; for example,
John Huss, St. Cecilia, Melanchthon, Luther, several women, saints, apostles, and evangelists.
These paintings are all by the first German artists. The floor is a splendid mosaic, and the
top of the dome is richly adorned with frescoes.

Still, though beautiful, the chapel seemed to me deficient in unity of effect. One admires
the details too much to appreciate it as a whole. We passed through the palace rooms. Its paintings
are far inferior to those of Windsor. The finest royal paintings have gone to adorn the walls
of the Museum. There was one magnificent Vandyke, into which he has introduced a large dog--some
relief from his eternal horses. There was David's picture of Bonaparte crossing the Alps, of
which Mrs. P. has the engraving, and you can tell her that it is much more impressive than
the painting. Opposite to this picture hangs Blucher, looking about as amiable as one might
suppose a captain of a regiment of mastiffs. Our guide, pointing to the portrait of Napoleon,
with evident pride, said, "Blucher brought that from Paris. He said Napoleon had carried so
many pictures from other countries to Paris, that now he should be carried away himself."

There were portraits of Queen Louisa, very beautiful; of Queen Victoria, a present; one of
the Empress of Russia; also a statue of the latter. The ball room contained a statue of Victory,
by Ranch, a beautiful female figure, the model of which, we were told, is his own daughter.
He had the grace to allow her some clothing, which was fatherly, for an artist. The palace
rooms were very magnificent. The walls were covered with a damask of silk and gold, into which
was inwrought the Prussian eagle. In the crowning room was an immense quantity of plate, in
solid gold and silver. The guide seemed not a little proud of our king, princes, and palace.
Men will attach themselves to power and splendor as naturally as moss will grow on a rock.
There is, perhaps, a foundation for this in human nature-- witness the Israelites of old, who
could not rest till they obtained a king. The Guide told us there were nine hundred rooms in
the palace, but that he should only take us through the best. We were duly sensible of the mercy.

Then we drove to Charlottenburg to see the Mausoleum. I know not when I have been more deeply
affected than there; and yet, not so much by the sweet, lifelike statue of the queen as by
that of the king, her husband, executed by the same hand. Such an expression of long-desired
rest, after suffering and toil, is shed over the face!--so sweet, so heavenly! There, where
he has prayed year after year,--hoping, yearning, longing,--there, at last, he rests, life's
long anguish over! My heart melted as I looked at these two, so long divided,--he so long a
mourner, she so long mourned,--now calmly resting side by side in a sleep so tranquil.

We went through the palace. We saw the present king's writing desk and table in his study,
just as he left them. His writing establishment is about as plain as yours. Men who really
mean to do any thing do not use fancy tools. His bed room, also, is in a style of severe simplicity.
There were several engravings fastened against the wall; and in the anteroom a bust and medallion
of the Empress Eugenie--a thing which I should not exactly have expected in a born king's palace;
but beauty is sacred, and kings cannot call it parvenu. Then we went into the queen's bed room,
finished in green, and then through the rooms of Queen Louisa. Those marks of her presence,
which you saw during the old king's lifetime, are now removed: we saw no traces of her dresses,
gloves, or books. In one room, draped in white muslin over pink, we were informed the Empress
of Russia was born.

In going out to Charlottenburg, we rode through the Thiergarten, the Tuileries of Berlin. In
one of the most quiet and sequestered spots is the monument erected by the people of Berlin
to their old king. The pedestal is Carrara marble, sculptured with beautiful scenes called
garden pleasures--children in all manner of out-door sports, and parents fondly looking on.
It is graceful, and peculiarly appropriate to those grounds where parents and children are
constantly congregating. The whole is surmounted by a statue of the king, in white marble--the
finest representation of him I have ever seen. Thoughtful, yet benign, the old king seems like
a good father keeping a grave and affectionate watch over the pleasures of his children in
their garden frolics. There was something about these moss-grown gardens that seemed so rural
and pastoral, that I at once preferred them to all I had seen in Europe. Choice flowers are
planted in knots, here and there, in sheltered nooks, as if they had grown by accident; and
an air of sweet, natural wildness is left amid the most careful cultivation. The people seemed
to be enjoying themselves less demonstratively and with less vivacity than in France, but with
a calm inwardness. Each nation has its own way of being happy, and the style of life in each
bears a certain relation of appropriateness to character. The trim, gay, dressy, animated air
of the Tuileries suits admirably with the mobile, sprightly vivacity of society there. Both,
in their way, are beautiful; but this seems less formal, and more according to nature.

As we were riding home, our guide, who was a full feathered monarchist, told us, with some
satisfaction, the number of palaces in Prussia. Suddenly, to my astonishment, "Young America"
struck into the conversation in the person of little G.

"We do things more economically in America. Our president don't have sixty palaces; he has
to be satisfied with one White House."

The guide entered into an animated defence of king and country. These palaces--did not the
king keep them for the people? did he not bear all the expense of caring for them, that they
might furnish public pleasure grounds and exhibition rooms? Had we not seen the people walking
about in them, and enjoying themselves?

This was all true enough, and we assented. The guide continued, Did not the king take the public
money to make beautiful museums for the people, where they could study the fine arts?--and
did our government do any such thing?

I thought of our surplus revenue, and laid my hand on my mouth. But yet there is a progress
of democratic principle indicated by this very understanding that the king is to hold things
for the benefit of the people. Times are altered since Louis XIV. was instructed by his tutor,
as he looked out on a crowd of people, "These are all yours;" and since he said, "L'elot, c'est
moi"

Our guide seemed to feel bound, however, to exhaust himself in comparison of our defects with
their excellences.

"Some Prussians went over to America to live," he said, "and had to come back again; they could
not live there."

"Why not?" said I.

"O, they said there was nothing done there but working and going to church!"

"That's a fact," said W., with considerable earnestness.

"Yes," said our guide; "they said we have but one life to live, and we want to have some comfort
in it."

It is a curious fact, that just in proportion as a country is free and self-governed it has
fewer public amusements. America and Scotland have the fewest of any, and Italy the most. Nevertheless,
I am far from thinking that this is either necessary or desirable: the subject of providing
innocent public amusements for the masses is one that we ought seriously to consider. In Berlin,
and in all other German cities, there are gardens and public grounds in which there are daily
concerts of a high order, and various attractions, to which people can gain admittance for
a very trifling sum. These refine the feelings, and cultivate the taste; they would be particularly
useful in America in counteracting that tendency to a sordid materialism, which is one of our
great national dangers.

We went over the Berlin Museum. In general style Greek--but Greek vitalized by the infusion
of the German mind. In its general arrangements one of the most gorgeous and impressive combinations
of art which I have seen. Here are the great frescoes of Kaulbach, Cornelius, and other German
artists, who have so grafted Grecian ideas into the German stock that the growth has the foliage
and coloring of a new plant. One set of frescoes, representing the climate and scenery of Greece,
had on me a peculiar and magical effect. Alas! there never has been the Greece that we conceive;
we see it under the soft, purple veil of distance, like an Alpine valley embraced by cloudy
mountains; but there was the same coarse dust and debris of ordinary life there as with us.
The true Arcadia lies beyond the grave. The collection of pictures is rich in historic curiosities--valuable
as marking the progress of art. One Claude Lorraine here was a matchless specimen--a perfect
victory over all the difficulties of green landscape painting.

LETTER XLV.

WITTENBERG.

MY DEAR:--

I am here in the station house at Wittenberg. I have been seeing and hearing to-day for you,
and now sit down to put on paper the results of my morning. "What make you from Wittenberg?"
Wittenberg! name of the dreamy past; dimly associated with Hamlet, Denmark, the moonlight terrace,
and the Baltic Sea, by one line of Shakspeare; but made more living by those who have thought,
loved, and died here; nay, by those who cannot die, and whose life has been life to all coming
ages.

How naturally, on reaching a place long heard of and pondered, do we look round for something
uncommon, quaint, and striking! Nothing of the kind was here; only the dead flat of this most
level scenery, with its dreary prairie-like sameness. Certainly it was not this scenery that
stirred up a soul in Luther, and made him nail up his theses on the Wittenberg church door.

"But, at any rate, let us go to Wittenberg," said I; "get a guide, a carriage, cannot you?"
as I walked to one window of the station house and another, and looked out to see something
wonderful. Nothing was in sight, however; and after the usual sputter of gutturals which precedes
any arrangement in this country, we were mounted in a high, awkward carriage, and rode to the
town. Two ancient round tower and a wall first met my eye; then a drawbridge, arched passage,
and portcullis. Under this passage we passed, and at our right hand was the church, where once
was laid the worn form that had stood so many whirlwinds--where, in short, Luther was buried.
But this we did not then know; so we drove by, and went to a hotel. Talked English and got
German; talked French with no better success. At last, between W., G., and the dictionary,
managed to make it understood that we wanted a guide to the Luther relics. A guide was after
a time forthcoming, in the person of a little woman who spoke no English, whom, guide book
in hand, we followed.

The church is ancient, and, externally, impressive enough; inside it is wide, cold, whitewashed,
prosaic; whoever gets up feeling does it against wind and tide, so far as appearances are concerned.
We advance to the spot in the floor where our guide raises a trap door, and shows us underneath
the plate inscribed with the name of Luther, and by it the plate recording the resting-place
of his well-beloved Philip Melanchthon; then to the grave of the Elector of Saxony, and John
the Steadfast; on one side a full length of Luther, by Lucas Cranach; on the other, one of
Melanchthon, by the same hand. Well, we have seen; this is all; "He is not here, he is risen."
"Is this all?" "All," says our guide, and we go out. I look curiously at the old door where
Luther nailed up his theses; but even this is not the identical door; that was destroyed by
the French. Still, under that arched doorway he stood, hammer and nails in hand; he held up
his paper, he fitted it straight; rap, rap,--there, one nail--another--it is up, and he stands
looking at it. These very stones were over that head that are now over mine, this very ground
beneath his feet. As I turned away I gave an earnest look at the old church. Grass is growing
on its buttresses; it has a desolate look, though strong and well kept. The party pass on,
and I make haste to overtake them.

Down we go, doing penance over the round paving stones; and our next halt is momentary. In
the market-place, before the town house, (a huge, three-gabled building, like a beast of three
horns,) stands Luther's bronze monument; apple women and pear women, onion and beet women,
are thickly congregated around, selling as best they may. There stands Luther, looking benignantly,
holding and pointing to the open Bible; the women, meanwhile, thinking we want fruit, hold
up their wares and talk German. But our conductress has a regular guide's trot, inexorable
as fate; so on we go.

Wittenberg is now a mean little town; all looks poor and low; yet it seems like a place that
has seen better days. Houses, now used as paltry shops, have, some of them, carved oaken doors,
with antic freaks of architecture, which seem to signify that their former owners were able
to make a figure in the world. In fact, the houses seem a sort of phantasmagoria of decayed
gentlefolk, in the faded, tarnished, old-fashioned finery of the past. Our guide halts her
trot suddenly before a house, which she announces as that of Louis Cranach; then on she goes.
Louis is dead, and Magdalen, his wife, also; so there is no one there to welcome us; on we
go also. Once Louis was a man of more consequence.

Now we come to Luther's house--a part of the old convent. Wide yawns the stone doorway of the
court; a grinning masque grotesquely looks down from its centre, and odd carvings from the
sides. A colony of swallows have established their nests among the queer old carvings and gnome-like
faces, and are twittering in and out, superintending their domestic arrangements. We enter
a court surrounded with buildings; then ascend, through a strange doorway, a winding staircase,
passing small, lozenge-shaped window. Up these stairs he oft trod, in all the moods of that
manifold and wonderful nature--gay, joyous, jocose, fervent, defiant, imploring; and up these
stairs have trod wondering visitors, thronging from all parts of the world, to see the man
of the age. Up these stairs come Philip Melanchthon, Lucas Cranach, and their wives, to see
how fares Luther after some short journey, or some new movement. Now, all past, all solitary;
the stairs dirty, the windows dim.

And this is Luther's room. It was a fine one in its day, that is plain. The arched recesses
of the windows; the roof, divided in squares, and, like the walls and cornice, painted in fresco;
the windows, with their quaint, round panes,--all, though now so soiled and dim, speak plainly
of a time when life was here, and all things wore a rich and joyous glow. In this room that
great heart rejoiced in the blessedness of domestic life, and poured forth some of those exulting
strains, glorifying the family state, which yet remain. Here his little Magdalen, his little
Jacky, and the rest made joyous uproar.

There stands his writing table, a heavy mass of wood; clumsy as the time and its absurdities,
rougher now than ever, in its squalid old age, and partly chipped away by relic seekers. Here
he sat; here lay his paper; over this table was bent that head whose brain power was the earthquake
of Europe. Here he wrote books which he says were rained, hailed, and snowed from the press
in every language and tongue. Kings and emperors could not bind the influence from this writing
table; and yet here, doubtless, he wrestled, struggled, prayed, and such tears as only he could
shed fell upon it. Nothing of all this says the table. It only stands a poor, ungainly relic
of the past; the inspiring angel is gone upward.

Catharine's nicely-carved cabinet, with its huge bunches of oaken flowers hanging down between
its glass panels, shows Luther's drinking cup. There is also his embroidered portrait, on which,
doubtless, she expended much thought, as she evidently has much gold thread. I seem to see
her conceiving the bold design--she will work the doctor's likeness. She asks Magdalen Cranach's
opinion, and Magdalen asks Lucas's, and there is a deal of discussion, and Lucas makes wise
suggestions. In the course of many fireside chats, the thing grows. Philip and his Kate, dropping
in, are shown it. Little Jacky and Magdalen, looking shyly over their mother's shoulder, are
wonderfully impressed with the likeness, and think their mother a great woman. Luther takes
it in hand, and passes some jests upon it, which make them laugh all round, and so at last
it grows to be a veritable likeness. Poor, faded, tarnished thing! it looks like a ghost now.

In one corner is a work of art by Luther--no less than a stove planned after his own pattern.
It is a high, black, iron pyramid, panelled, each panel presenting in relief some Scripture
subject. Considering the remote times, this stove is quite an affair; the figures are, some
of them, spirited and well conceived, though now its lustre, like all else here, is obscured
by dust and dirt. Why do the Germans leave this place so dirty? The rooms of Shakspeare are
kept clean and in repair; the Catholics enshrine in gold and silver the relics of their saints,
but this Protestant Mecca is left literally to the moles and the bats.

I slipped aside a panel in the curious old windows, and looked down into the court surrounded
by the university buildings. I fancied the old times when students, with their scholastic caps
and books, were momently passing and repassing. I thought of the stir there was here when the
pope's bull against Luther came out, and of the pattering of feet and commotion there were
in this court, when Luther sallied out to burn the pope's bull under the oak, just beyond the
city wall near by. The students thought it good fun; students are always progressive; they
admired the old boy for his spirit; they threw up caps and shouted, and went out to see the
ceremony with a will. Philip Melanchthon wondered if brother Martin was not going a little
too fast, but hoped it would be overruled, and that all would be for the best! So, coming out,
I looked longingly beyond the city gate, and wanted to go to the place of the oak tree, where
the ceremony was performed, but the party had gone on.

Coming back, I made a pause opposite the house on which is seen the inscription, "Here Melanchthon
lived, labored, and died." A very good house it was, too, in its day; in architecture it was
not unlike this. I went across the street to take a good look at it; then I came over, and
as the great arched door stood open, I took the liberty of walking in. Like other continental
houses, this had an arched passage running through to a back court and a side door. A stone
stairway led up from this into the house, and a small square window, with little round panes,
looked through into the passage. A young child was toddling about there, and I spoke to it;
a man came out, and looked as if he rather wondered what I might be about; so I retreated.
Then I threaded my way past queer peaked-roofed buildings to a paved court, where stood the
old church--something like that in Halle, a great Gothic structure, with two high towers connected
by a gallery. I entered. Like the other church it has been whitewashed, and has few architectural
attractions. It is very large, with two galleries, one over the other, and might hold, I should
think, five thousand people.

Here Luther preached. These walls, now so silent, rung to the rare melody of that voice, to
which the Roman Catholic writers attributed some unearthly enchantment, so did it sway all
who listened. Here, clustering round these pillars, standing on these flags, were myriads of
human beings; and what heart-beatings, what surgings of thought, what tempests of feeling,
what aspirations, what strivings, what conflicts shook that multitude, and possessed them as
he spoke! "I preach," he said, "not for professor this or that, nor for the elector or prince,
but for poor Jack behind the door;" and so, striking only on the chords common to all hearts,
he bowed all, for he who can inspire the illiterate and poor, callous with ignorance and toil,
can move also the better informed. Here, also, that voice of his, which rose above the choir
and organ, sang the alto in those chorals which he gave to the world. Monmouth, sung in this
great church by five thousand voices, must needs have a magnificent sound.

The altar-piece is a Lord's Supper, by Louis Cranach, who appears in the foreground as a servant.
On each side are the pictures of the Sacraments. In baptism, Melanchthon stands by a laver,
holding a dripping baby, whom he has just immersed, one of Luther's children, I suppose, for
he is standing by; a venerable personage in a long beard holds the towel to receive the little
neophyte. From all I know of babies, I should think this form of baptism liable to inconvenient
accessories and consequences. On the other side, Luther is preaching, and opposite, foremost
of his audience are, Catharine and her little son. Every thing shows how strictly intimate
were Luther, Melanchthon, and Cranach; good sociable times they had together. A slab elaborately
carved, in the side of the church, marks the last rest of Lucas and Magdalen Cranach.

I passed out of the church, and walked slowly down to the hotel, purchasing by the way, at
a mean little shop, some tolerable engravings of Luther's room, the church, &c. To show how
immutable every thing has been in Wittenberg since Luther died, let me mention that on coming
back through the market-place, we found spread out for sale upon a cloth about a dozen pairs
of shoes of the precise pattern of those belonging to Luther, which we had seen in Frankfort--clumsy,
rude, and heelless. I have heard that Swedenborg said, that in his visit to the invisible world,
he encountered a class of spirits who had been there fifty years, and had not yet found out
that they were dead. These Wittenbergers, I think, must be of the same conservative turn of mind.

Failing to get a carriage to the station, we started to walk. I paused a moment before the
church, to make some little corrections and emendations in my engravings, and thought, as I
was doing so, of that quite other scene years ago, when the body of Luther was borne through
this gate by a concourse of weeping thousands. These stones, on which I was standing, then
echoed all night to the tread of a closely-packed multitude--a muffled sound, like the patter
of rain among leaves. There rose through the long, dark hours, alternately, the unrestrained
sobbings of the throng, and the grand choral of Luther's psalms, words and music of his own.
Never since the world began was so strange a scene as that. I felt a kind of shadow from it,
as I walked homeward gazing on the flat, dreamy distance. A great windmill was creaking its
sombre, lazy vanes round and round,--strange, goblin things, these windmills,--and I thought
of one of Luther's sayings. "The heart of a human creature is like the millstones: if corn
be shaken thereon, it grindeth the corn, and maketh good meal; but if no corn be there, then
it grindeth away itself." Luther tried the latter process all the first part of his life; but
he got the corn at last, and a magnificent grist he made.

Arrived at the station, we found we must wait till half past five in the afternoon for the
train. This would have been an intolerable doom in the disconsolate precincts of an English
or American station, but not in a German one. As usual, this had a charming garden, laid out
with exquisite taste, and all glowing and fragrant with plats of verbena, fuschias, heliotropes,
mignonette, pansies, while rows of hothouse flowers, set under the shelter of neatly trimmed
hedges, gave brightness to the scene. Among all these pretty grounds were seats and walks,
and a gardener, with his dear pipe in his mouth, was moving about, watering his dear flowers,
thus combining the two delights of a German, flowers and smoke. These Germans seem an odd race,
a mixture of clay and spirit--what with their beer drinking and smoking, and their slow, stolid
ways, you would think them perfectly earthly; but an ethereal fire is all the while working
in them, and bursting out in most unexpected little jets of poetry and sentiment, like blossoms
on a cactus.

The station room was an agreeable one, painted prettily in frescoes, with two sofas. So we
arranged ourselves in a party. S. and I betook ourselves to our embroidery, and C. read aloud
to us, or tried the Amati, and when we were tired of reading and music we strolled in the garden,
and I wrote to you.

I wonder why we Anglo-Saxons cannot imitate the liberality of the continent in the matter of
railroad stations, and give the traveller something more agreeable than the grim, bare, forbidding
places, which now obtain in England and America. This Wittenberg is but a paltry town; and
yet how much care is spent to make the station house comfortable and comely! I may here say
that nowhere in Europe is railway travelling so entirely convenient as in Germany, particularly
in Prussia. All is systematic and orderly; no hurrying or shoving, or disagreeable fuss at
stations. The second class cars are, in most points, as good as the first class in England;
the conductors are dignified and gentlemanly; you roll on at a most agreeable pace from one
handsome station house to another, finding yourself disposed to be pleased with every thing.

There is but one drawback to all this, and that is the smoking. Mythologically represented,
these Germans might be considered as a race born of chimneys, with a necessity for smoking
in their very nature. A German walking without his pipe is only a dormant volcano; it is in
him to smoke all the while; you may be sure the crater will begin to fume before long. Smoking
is such an acknowledged attribute of manhood, that the gentler sex seem to have given in to
it as one of the immutable things of nature; consequently all the public places where both
sexes meet are redolent of tobacco! You see a gentleman doing the agreeable to a lady, cigar
in mouth, treating her alternately to an observation and a whiff, both of which seem to her
equally matters of course. In the cars some attempt at regulation subsists; there are cars
marked "Nich rauchen" into which we were always very careful to get; but even in these it is
not always possible to make a German suspend an operation which is to him about the same as
breathing.

On our way from Frankfort to Halle, in a "nich rauchen" car, too, a jolly old gentleman, whose
joyous and abundant German sounded to me like the clatter of a thousand of brick, wound up
a kind of promiscuous avalanche of declamation by pulling a matchbox from his pocket, and proceeding
deliberately to light his pipe. The tobacco was detestable. Now, if a man must smoke, I think
he is under moral obligation to have decent tobacco. I began to turn ill, and C. attacked the
offender in French; not a word did he understand, and puffed on tranquil and happy. The idea
that any body did not like smoke was probably the last that could ever be made to enter his
head, even in a language that he did understand. C. then enlisted the next neighbor, who understood
French, and got him to interpret that smoke made the lady ill. The chimney-descended man now
took his pipe out, and gazed at it and me alternately, with an air of wondering incredulity,
and seemed trying to realize some vast conception, but failing in the effort, put his pipe
back, and smoked as before! Some old ladies now amiably offered to change places with me, evidently
regarding me as the victim of some singular idiosyncrasy. As I changed, a light seemed to dawn
on the old chimney's mind--a good-natured one he was; he looked hard at me, and his whiffs
became fainter till at last they ceased, and he never smoked more till I was safe out of the cars.

LETTER XLVI.

ERFURT, Saturday Evening.

MY DEAR:--

I have just been to Luther's cell in the old Augustine Convent, and if my pilgrimage at Wittenberg
was less interesting by the dirt and discomfort of the actual present, here were surroundings
less calculated to jar on the frame the scene should inspire. It was about sunset,--a very
golden and beautiful one, and C. and I drove through various streets of this old town. I believe
I am peculiarly alive to architectural excitements, for these old houses, with their strange
windows, odd chimneys, and quaint carvings, delight me wonderfully. Many of them are almost
gnome-like in their uncouthness; they please me none the less for that.

We drove first to the cathedral, which, with an old deserted church, seemingly part of itself,
forms a pile of Gothic architecture, a wilderness of spires, minarets, arches, and what not,
more picturesque than any cathedral I have seen. It stands high on a sort of platform overlooking
a military parade ground, and reached by a long flight of steps.

The choir is very beautiful. I cannot describe how these lofty arches, with their stained glass
windows, touch my heart. Architecture never can, and never will, produce their like again.
They give us aspiration in its highest form and noblest symbol, and wonderful was that mind
which conceived them. This choir so darkly bright, its stalls and seats carved in black oak,
its flame-like arches, gorgeous with evening light, were a preparation and excitement of mind.
Yet it's remarkable about these old-time cathedrals, that while their is every grand and solemn
effect of architecture, there is also always an abundance of subordinate parts, mean, tawdry,
revolting, just like the whole system they represent. Out of this beautiful choir I wanted
to tear all the tinsel fixtures on its altar, except two very good pictures, and leave it in
it noble simplicity.

I remarked here a black oak chandelier, which the guide said was taken from the cathedral of
Cologne. It was the very perfection of Gothic carving, and resembled frostwork in its lightness.
The floor of the cathedral was covered with effigies in stone, trod smooth by the feet of worshippers;
so we living ones are ever walking above the dead, though we do not always, as here, see the
outward sign thereof.

From the cathedral we passed out, and stopped a moment to examine the adjoining church, now
deserted, but whose three graceful spires have a peculiar beauty. After a turn upon the platform
we descended, and drove to the Augustine Convent, now used as an orphan asylum. We ascended
through a court yard, full of little children, by some steps into a gallery, where a woman
came out with her keys. We passed first into a great hall, the walls of which were adorned
with Holbein's Dance of Death.

From this hall we passed into Luther's room--a little cell, ten feet square; the walls covered
with inscriptions from his writings. There we saw his inkstand, his pocket Testament, a copy
of the Bible that was presented to him, (by whom I could not understand,) splendidly bound
and illuminated. But it was the cell itself which affected me, the windows looking out into
what were the cloisters of the monastery. Here was that struggle--that mortal agony--that giant
soul convulsing and wearing down that strong frame. These walls! to what groans, to what prayers
had they listened! Could we suppose a living human form imperishable, capable of struggling
and suffering, but not of dying, buried beneath the whole weight of one of these gloomy cathedrals,
suffocating in mortal agony, hearing above the tramp of footsteps, the peal of organs, the
triumphant surge of chants, and vainly striving to send up its cries under all this load,--such,
it would seem, was the suffering of this mighty soul. The whole pomp and splendor of this gorgeous
prison house was piled up on his breast, and his struggles rent the prison for the world!

On a piece of parchment which is here kept framed is inscribed in Luther's handwriting, in
Latin, "Death is swallowed up in Victory!" Nothing better could be written on the walls of
this cell.

This afternoon I walked out a little to observe the German Sabbath. Not like the buoyant, voluble,
social Sunday of Paris, though still consecrated to leisure and family enjoyment more than
to religious exercises. As I walked down the streets, the doors were standing open, men smoking
their pipes, women knitting, and children playing. One place of resort was the graveyard of
an antiquated church. A graveyard here is quite different from the solitary, dismal place where
we lay our friends, as if to signify that all intercourse with them is at an end. Each grave
was trimmed and garlanded with flowers, fastened with long strings of black or white ribbon.
Around and among the graves men, women, and children were walking, the men smoking and chatting,
not noisily, but in a cheerful, earnest way. It seems to me that this way of treating the dead
might lessen the sense of separation. I believe it is generally customary to attend some religious
exercise once on Sunday, and after that the rest of the day is devoted to this sort of enjoyment.

The morning we started for Eisenach was foggy and rainy. This was unfortunate, as we were changing
from a dead level country to one of extreme beauty. The Thuringian Forest, with its high, wooded
points crowned here and there with many a castle and many a ruin, loomed up finely through
the mist, and several times I exclaimed, "There is the Wartburg," or "That must be the Wartburg,"
long before we were near it. It was raining hard when we reached Eisenach station, and engaged
a carriage to take us to the Wartburg. The mist, which wreathed thickly around, showed us only
glimpses as we wound slowly up the castle hill--enough, however, to pique the imagination,
and show how beautiful it might be in fair weather.

The grounds are finely kept: winding paths invite to many a charming stroll. When about half
way up, as the rain had partially subsided, I left the carriage, and toiled up the laborious
steep on foot, that I might observe better. You approach the castle by a path cut through the
rock for about thirty or forty feet. At last I stood under a low archway of solid stone masonry,
about twenty feet thick. There had evidently been three successive doors; the outer one was
gone, and the two inner were wonderfully massive, braced with iron, and having each a smaller
wicket door swung back on its hinges.

As my party were a little behind, I had time to stop and meditate. I fancied a dark, misty
night, and the tramp of a party of horsemen coming up the rocky path to the gateway; the parley
at the wicket; the unbarred doors, creaking on their rusty hinges,--one, two, three,--are opened;
in clatters the cavalcade. In the midst of armed men with visors down, a monk in cowl and gown,
and with that firm look about the lips which is so characteristic in Luther's portraits. But
here our party came up, and the vision was dispelled. As none of us knew a word of German,
we stood rather irresolutely looking at the buildings which, in all shapes and varieties, surround
the court. I went into one room--it was a pantry; into another--it was a wash room; into a
third--it was a sitting room, garnished with antlers, and hung round with hard old portraits
of princes and electors, and occupied by Germans smoking and drinking beer. One is sure that
in this respect one cannot fail of seeing the place as it was in Luther's time. If they were
Germans, of course they drank beer out of tall, narrow beer glasses; that is as immutable a
fact as the old stones of the battlement.

"H.," said C., "did the Germans use to smoke in Luther's day?"

"No. Why?"

"0, nothing. Only, what could they do with themselves?"

"I do not know, unless they drank the more beer."

"But what could they do with their chimney-hood?"

So saying, the saucy fellow prowled about promiscuously a while, assailing one and another
in French, to about as much purpose as one might have tried to storm the walls with discharges
of thistle down; all smoked and drank as before. But as several other visitors arrived, and
it became evident that if we did not come to see the castle, it was not likely we came for
any thing else, a man was fished up from some depths unknown, with a promising bunch of keys.
He sallied forth to that part of the castle which is undergoing repairs.

Passing through bricks and mortar, under scaffolds, &c., we came to the armory, full of old
knights and steeds in complete armor; that is to say, the armor was there, and, without peeping
between the crevices, one could hardly tell that their owners were not at home in their iron
houses. There sat the Elector of Saxony, in full armor, on his horse, which was likewise cased
in steel. There was the suit of armor in which Constable Bourbon fell under the walls of Rome,
and other celebrated suits, some covered with fine engraved work, and some gilded. A quantity
of banners literally hung in tatters, dropping to pieces with age. Here were the middle ages
all standing.

Then we passed up to a grand hall, which is now being restored with great taste after the style
of that day--a long, lofty room, with an arched roof, and a gallery on one side, and beyond,
a row of Romanesque arched windows, commanding a view of the country around. Having finished
the tour of this part, we went back, ascended an old, rude staircase, and were ushered into
Luther's Patmos, about ten or twelve feet square. The window looked down the rocky sides into
an ocean of seething mist. I opened it, but could see nothing of all those scenes he describes
so graphically from this spot. I thought of his playful letter on the "Diet of the Rooks,"
but there was not a rook at hand to illustrate antiquity. There was his bedstead and footstool,
a mammoth vertebra, and his writing table. A sculptured chair, the back of which is carved
into a cherub's head, bending forward and shadowing with its wings the head of the sitter,
was said to be of the time of Luther, but not his chair. There were some of his books, and
a rude, iron-studded clothes press.

Thus ended for me the Lutheran pilgrimage. I had now been perseveringly to all the shrines,
and often inquired of myself whether our conceptions are helped by such visitations. I decided
the question in the affirmative; that they are, if from the dust of the present we can recreate
the past, and bring again before us the forms as they then lived, moved, and had their being.
For me, I seem to have seen Luther, Cranach, Melanchthon, and all the rest of them--to have
talked with them. By the by, I forgot to mention the portraits of Luther's father and mother,
which are in his cell. They show that his mother was no common woman. She puts me in mind of
the mother of Samuel J. Mills--a strong, shrewd, bright, New England character.

I must not forget to notice, too, a little glitter of effect--a little, shadowy, fanciful phase
of feeling--that came over me when in Luther's cell at Erfurt. The time, as I told you, was
golden twilight, and little birds were twittering and chirping around the casement, and I thought
how he might have sat there, in some golden evening, sad and dreamy, hearing the birds chirp,
and wondering why he alone of all creation should be so sad. I have not a doubt he has done
that very thing in this very spot.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

Monday, August 15. From Eisenach, where we dined cozily in the railroad station house, we took
the cars for Cassel. After we had established ourselves comfortably in a nich rauchen car,
a gentleman, followed by a friend, came to the door with a cigar in his mouth. Seeing ladies,
he inquired if he could smoke. Comprehending his look and gesture, we said, "No." But as we
spoke very gently, he misunderstood us, and entered. Seeing by our looks that something was
amiss, he repeated the question more emphatically in German: "Can I smoke? Yes, or no." "No,"
we answered in full chorus. Discomfited, he retired with rather a flushed cheek. We saw him
prospecting up and down the train, hunting for a seat, followed by his fidus Achates. Finally,
a guard took him in tow, and after navigating a while brought him to our door; but the gentleman
recoiled, said something in German, and passed on. Again they made the whole circuit of the
train, and then we saw the guard coming, with rather a fierce, determined air, straight to
our door. He opened it very decidedly, and ordered the gentleman to enter. He entered, cigar
and all. His friend followed.

"Well," said H., in English, "I suppose he must either smoke or die."

"Ah, yes," I replied, "for the sake of saving his life we will even let him smoke."

"Hope the tobacco is good," added H.; and we went on reading our "Villette," which was very
amusing just then. The gentleman had his match already lighted, and was just in the act of
puffing preliminarily when H. first spoke. I thought I saw a peculiar expression on his friend's
face. He dropped a word or two in German, as if quite incidentally, and I soon observed that
the smoking made small progress. Pie kept the cigar in his mouth, it is true, for a while,
just to show he would smoke if he chose; but his whiffs were fewer and fainter every minute;
and after reading several chapters, happening to cast my eye that way, the cigar had disappeared.
Not long after the friend, sitting opposite me, addressed W. in good English, and they were
soon well agoing in a friendly discussion of our route. The winged word had hit the mark that time.

We passed the night in an agreeable hotel, Roi de Prusse, at Cassel. By the way, it occurred
to us that this was where the Hessians came from in the old revolutionary times.

Tuesday, August 16. A long, dull ride from Cassel to Dusseldorf.

Wednesday, August 17. Whittridge came at breakfast. The same mellow, friendly, good-humored
voice, and genial soul, I had loved years ago in the heart of Indiana. We had a brief festival
of talk about old times, art, artists, and friends, and the tide of time rolled in and swept
us asunder. Success to his pencil in the enchanted glades of Germany! America will yet be proud
of his landscapes, as Italy of Claude, or England of Turner.

Ho for Anvers! (Antwerp.) Through Aix-la-Chapelle, Liege, Malines, till nine at night.

Thursday, August 18. What gnome's cave is this Antwerp, where I have been hearing such strange
harmonies in the air all night? We drive to the cathedral, whose tower reminded Napoleon of
Mechlin lace. What a shower of sprinkling music drops comes from the sky above us! We must
go up and see about this. We spiralize through a tubular stairway to an immense height--a tube
of stone, like a Titanic organ pipe, filled with waves of sound pouring down like a deluge.
Undulations tremendous, yet not intolerable: we soon learned their origin. Reaching a small
door, I turned aside, and came where the great bell was hung, which twenty men were engaged
in ringing. It was a fete day. I crept inside the frame, and stood actually under the colossal
mass, as it swung like a world in its spheric chime. A new sense was developed, such as I had
heard of the deaf possessing. I seemed existing in a new medium. I felt the sound in my lungs,
in my bones, on all my nerves to the minutest fibre, and yet it did not stupefy nor stun me
with a harsh clangor. It was deep, DEEP. It was an abyss, gorgeously illuminated of velvet
softness, in which I floated. The sound was fluid like water about me. I closed my eyes. Where
was I? Had some prodigious monster swallowed me, and, like another Jonah, had I "gone down
beneath the bottoms of the mountains"? I escaped from that perilous womb of sound, and ascended
still higher. There was the mystery of that nocturnal minstrelsy. Seventy-three bells in chromatic
diapason--with their tinkling, ringing, tolling, knolling peal! Was not that a chime? a chime
of chimes? And all these goblin hammers, like hands and feet of sprites, rising and falling,
by magic, by hidden mechanism.

Of all German cactus blossoms this is the most ethereal. What head conceived those harmonies,
so ghostlike? Every ten minutes, if you lie wakeful, they wind you up in a net of silver wirework,
and swing you in the clouds; and the next time they swing you higher, and the next higher,
and when the round hour is full the giant bell strikes at the gate of heaven to bring you home!

But this is dreaming. Fie, fie! Let us come down to pictures, masses, and common sense. We
came down. We entered the room, and sat before the Descent from the Cross, where the dead body
of Jesus seems an actual reality before you. The waves of the high mass came rolling in, muffled
by intervening walls, columns, corridors, in a low, mysterious murmur. Then organ, orchestra,
and choir, with rising voices urged the mighty acclaim, till the waves seemed beating down
the barriers upon us. The combined excitement of the chimes, the painting, the music, was too
much. I seemed to breathe ether. Treading on clouds, as it were, I entered the cathedral, and
the illusion vanished.

Friday, August 19. Antwerp to Paris.

Saturday, August 20. H. and I take up our abode at the house of M. Belloc, where we find every
thing so pleasant, that we sigh to think how soon we must leave these dear friends. The rest
of our party are at the Hotel Bedford.

LETTER XLVII.

Antwerp.

MY DEAR:--

Of all quaint places this is one of the most charming. I have been rather troubled that antiquity
has fled before me where I have gone. It is a fatality of travelling that the sense of novelty
dies away, so that we do not realize that we are seeing any thing extraordinary. I wanted to
see something as quaint as Nuremberg in Longfellow's poem, and have but just found it. These
high-gabled old Flemish houses, nine steps to each gable! The cathedral, too, affects me more
in externals than any yet. And the spire looks as I expected that of Strasbourg would. As to
the grammarye of bells and chimes, I deliver that over to Charlie. But--I have seen Rubens's
painting! Before I came to Europe, Longfellow said to me, "You must go to Antwerp, to see Rubens."

"I do not think I shall like Rubens," was my reply.

"But you will, though. Yet never judge till you have been to Antwerp."

So, during our various meanders, I kept my eye with a steady resolve on this place. I confess
I went out to see the painting without much enthusiasm. My experience with Correggio's Notte,
and some of the celebrities of Dresden, was not encouraging. I was weary, too, with sightseeing.
I expected to find an old, dim picture, half spoiled by cleaning, which I should be required
to look into shape, by an exercise of my jaded imagination.

Alter coming down from hearing the chimes, we went into a side room, and sat down before the
painting. My first sensation was of astonishment, blank, absolute, overwhelming. After all
that I had seen, I had no idea of a painting like this. I was lifted off my feet, as much as
by Cologne cathedral, or Niagara Falls, so that I could neither reason nor think whether I
was pleased or not. It is difficult, even now, to analyze the sources of this wonderful power.
The excellence of this picture does not lie, like Raphael's, in a certain ideal spirituality,
by which the scene is raised above earth to the heavenly sphere; but rather in a power, strong,
human, almost homely, by which, not an ideal, but the real scene is forced home upon the heart.

Christ is dead,--dead to your eye as he was to the eye of Mary and of John. Death absolute,
hopeless, is written in the faded majesty of that face, peaceful and weary; death in every
relaxed muscle. And, surely, in painting this form, some sentiment of reverence and devotion
softened into awestruck tenderness that hand commonly so vigorous; for, instead of the almost
coarse vitality which usually pervades his manly figures, there is shed over this a spiritualized
refinement, not less, but more than human, as if some heavenly voice whispered, "This is the
Lamb slain from the foundation of the world!" The figures of the disciples are real and individual
in expression. The sorrow is homely, earnest, unpicturesque, and grievously heart broken. The
cheek of the kneeling Mary at his feet is wet with tears. You cannot ask yourself whether she
is beautiful or not. You only see and sympathize with her sorrow. But the apostle John, who
receives into his arms the descending form, is the most wonderful of all. Painters that I have
seen represent him too effeminately. They forget the ardent soul whom Jesus rebuked for wishing
to bring down fire from heaven on his enemies; they forget that it was John who was called
the son of thunder, and that his emblem in the early church was the eagle. From the spiritualized
softness of his writings we have formed another picture, forgetting that these are the writings
of an aged man, in whom the ardor of existence has been softened by long experience of suffering,
and habits of friendship with a suffering Lord.

Rubens's conception of John is that of a vigorous and plenary manhood, whose rush is like that
of a torrent, in the very moment when his great heart is breaking. He had loved his Master
with a love like an eternity; he had believed him; heart and soul, mind and strength--all had
he given to that kingdom which he was to set up; and he had seen him die--die by lingering
torture. And at this moment he feels it all. There is no Christ, no kingdom--nothing! All is
over. "We trusted it had been he who should have redeemed Israel." With that miraculous, lifelike
power that only Rubens has, he shows him to us in this moment of suppressed agony; the blood
choking his heart, the veins swollen, and every muscle quivering with the grief to which he
will not give way. O, for this wonderful and deep conception, this almost divine insight into
the mysteries of that hour, one might love Rubens. This picture cannot be engraved. No engraving
is more than a diagram, to show the places of the figures. For, besides its mesmeric life,
which no artist can reproduce, there is a balancing of colors, a gorgeousness about it, as
if he had learned coloring from the great Master himself. Even in the overpowering human effect
of this piece, it is impossible not to perceive that every difficulty which artists vaunt themselves
on vanquishing has in this piece been conquered with apparently instinctive ease, simply because
it was habitual to do so, and without in the least distracting the attention from the great
moral. Magical foreshortenings and wonderful effects of color appear to be purely incidental
to the expression of a great idea. I left this painting as one should leave the work of a great
religious master-- thinking more of Jesus and of John than of Rubens.

After this we went through many galleries and churches devoted to his works; for Antwerp is
Rubens's shrine. None of them impressed me, as compared with this. One of his Madonnas, however,
I must not forget to describe, it was a conceit so just like him. Instead of the pale, downcast,
or upturned faces, which form the general types of Madonna, he gives her to us, in one painting,
as a gorgeous Oriental sultana, leaning over a balcony, with full, dark eye and jewelled turban,
and rounded outlines, sustaining on her hand a brilliant paroquet. Ludicrous as this conception
appears in a scriptural point of view, I liked it because there was life in it; because he
had painted it from an internal sympathy, not from a chalky, second-hand tradition.

And now, farewell to Antwerp. Art has satisfied me at last. I have been conquered, and that
is enough.

To-morrow for Paris. Adieu.

LETTER XLVIII.

PARIS, Saturday, August 20. I like these cool, smooth, waxed floors so much that I one day
queried with my friends, the C.'s, whether we could not introduce them into America. L., who
is a Yankee housekeeper, answered, with spirit, "No, indeed; not while the mistress of the
house has every thing to do, as in America; I think I see myself, in addition to all my cares,
on my knees, waxing up one of these floors."

"Ah," says Caroline, "the thing is managed better in Paris; the frotteur comes in before we
are up in the morning, shod with great brushes, and dances over the floors till they shine."

"I am sure," said I, "here is Fourrier's system in one particular. We enjoy the floors, and
the man enjoys the dancing."

Madame Belloc had fitted up my room with the most thoughtful care. A large bouquet adorns the
table; fancy writing materials are displayed; and a waiter, with sirups and an extempore soda
fount, one of Parisian household refinements, stands just at my elbow. Above all, my walls
are hung with beautiful engravings from Claude and Zuccarelli.

This house pertains to the government, and is held by M. Belloc in virtue of his situation
as director of the Imperial School of Design, to which institution about one half of it is
devoted. A public examination is at hand, in preparing for which M. Belloc is heart and soul
engaged. This school is a government provision for the gratuitous instruction of the working
classes in art. I went into the rooms where the works of the scholars are arranged for the
inspection of the judges. The course of instruction is excellent--commencing with the study
of nature. Around the room various plants are growing, which serve for models, interspersed
with imitations in drawing or modelling, by the pupils. I noticed a hollyhock and thistle,
modelled with singular accuracy. As some pupils can come only at evening, M. Belloc has prepared
a set of casts of plants, which he says are plaster daguerreotypes. By pouring warm gelatine
upon a leaf, a delicate mould is made, from which these casts are taken. He showed me bunches
of leaves, and branches of the vine, executed by them, which were beautiful. In like manner
the pupil commences the study of the human figure, with the skeleton, which he copies bone
by bone. Gutta percha muscles are added in succession, till finally he has the whole form.
Besides, each student has particular objects given him to study for a certain period, after
which he copies them from memory. The same course is pursued with prints and engravings.

When an accurate knowledge of forms is gained, the pupil receives lessons in combination. Such
subjects as these are given: a vase of flowers, a mediaeval or classic vase, shields, Helmets,
escutcheons, &c., of different styles. The first prize composition was a hunting frieze, modelled,
in which were introduced fanciful combinations of leaf and scroll work, dogs, hunters, and
children. Figures of almost every animal and plant were modelled; the drawings and modellings
from memory were wonderful, and showed, in their combination, great richness of fancy. Scattered
about the room were casts of the best classic figures of the Louvre, placed there, as M. Belloc
gracefully remarked, not as models, but as inspirations, to cultivate the sense of beauty.

I was shown, moreover, their books of mathematical studies, which looked intricate and learned,
but of which I appreciated only the delicate chirography. "And where," said I, "are these young
mechanics taught to read and write?" "In the brothers' schools," he said. Paris is divided
into regular parishes, centring round different churches, and connected with each church is
a parochial school, for boys and girls, taught by ecclesiastics and nuns.

With such thorough training of the sense of beauty, it may be easily seen that the facility
of French enthusiasm in aesthetics is not, as often imagined, superficial pretence. The nerves
of beauty are so exquisitely tuned and strung that they must thrill at every touch.

One sees this, in French life, to the very foundation of society. A poor family will give,
cheerfully, a part of their bread money to buy a flower. The idea of artistic symmetry pervades
every thing, from the arrangement of the simplest room to the composition of a picture. At
the chateau of Madame V. the whiteheaded butler begged madame to apologize for the central
flower basket on the table. He "had not had time to study the composition."

The English and Americans, seeing the French so serious and intent on matters of beauty, fancy
it to be mere affectation. To be serious on a barrel of flour, or a bushel of potatoes, we
can well understand; but to be equally earnest in the adorning of a room or the "composition"
of a bouquet seems ridiculous. But did not He who made the appetite for food make also that
for beauty? and while the former will perish with the body, is not the latter immortal? With
all New England's earnestness and practical efficiency, there is a long withering of the soul's
more ethereal part,--a crushing out of the beautiful,--which is horrible. Children are born
there with a sense of beauty equally delicate with any in the world, in whom it dies a lingering
death of smothered desire and pining, weary starvation. I know, because I have felt it.--One
in whom this sense has long been repressed, in coming into Paris, feels a rustling and a waking
within him, as if the soul were trying to unfold her wings, long unused and mildewed. Instead
of scorning, then, the lighthearted, mobile, beauty-loving French, would that we might exchange
instructions with them--imparting our severer discipline in religious lore, accepting their
thorough methods in art; and, teaching and taught, study together under the great Master of all.

I went with M. Belloc into the gallery of antique sculpture. How wonderful these old Greeks
I What set them out on such a course, I wonder--anymore, for instance, than the Sandwich Islanders?
This reminds me to tell you that in the Berlin Museum, which the King of Prussia is now finishing
in high style, I saw what is said to be the most complete Egyptian collection in the world;
a whole Egyptian temple, word for word--pillars, paintings, and all; numberless sarcophagi,
and mummies ad nauseam! They are no more fragrant than the eleven thousand virgins, these mummies!
and my stomach revolts equally from the odor of sanctity and of science.

I saw there a mummy of a little baby; and though it was black as my shoe, and a disgusting,
dry thing, nevertheless the little head was covered with fine, soft, auburn hair. Four thousand
years ago, some mother thought the poor little thing a beauty. Also I saw mummies of cats,
crocodiles, the ibis, and all the other religious bijouterie of Egypt, with many cases of their
domestic utensils, ornaments, &c.

The whole view impressed me with quite an idea of barbarism; much more so than the Assyrian
collection. About the winged bulls there is a solemn and imposing grandeur; they have a mountainous
and majestic nature. These Egyptian things give one an idea of inexpressible ungainliness.
They had a clumsy, elephantine character of mind, these Egyptians. There was not wanting grace,
but they seemed to pick it up accidentally; because among all possible forms some must be graceful.
They had a kind of grand, mammoth civilization, gloomy and goblin. They seem to have floundered
up out of Nile mud, like that old, slimy, pre-Adamite brood, the what's-their-name--megalosaurus,
ichthyosaurus, pterodactyle, iguanodon, and other misshapen abominations, with now and then
wreaths of lotus and water lilies round their tusks.

The human face, as represented in Assyrian sculptures, is a higher type of face than even the
Greek: it is noble and princely; the Egyptian faces are broad, flat, and clumsy. If Egypt gave
birth to Greece, with her beautiful arts, then truly this immense, clumsy roc's egg hatched
a miraculous nest of loves and graces.

Among the antiques here, my two favorites are Venus de Milon, which I have described to you,
and the Diane Chasseresse: this goddess is represented by the side of a stag; and so completely
is the marble made alive, that one seems to perceive that a tread so airy would not bend a
flower. Every side of the statue is almost equally graceful. The small, proud head is thrown
back with the freedom of a stag; there is a gay, haughty self-reliance, an airy defiance, a
rejoicing fulness of health and immortal youth in the whole figure. You see before you the
whole Greek conception of an immortal--a creature full of intellect, full of the sparkle and
elixir of existence, in whom the principle of life seems to be crystallized and concentrated
with a dazzling abundance; light, airy, incapable alike of love and of sympathy; living for
self, and self only. Alas for poor souls, who, in the heavy anguish of life, had only such
goddesses to go to! How far in advance is even the idolatry of Christianity! how different
the idea of Mary from the Diana!

Yet, as I walked up and down among these remains of Greek art, I could not but wonder at the
spectacle of their civilization: no modern development reproduces it, nor ever can or will.
It is well to cherish and make much of that ethereal past, as a specimen of one phase of humanity,
for it is past forever. Those isles of Greece, with their gold and purple haze of light and
shadow, their exquisite, half-spiritual, half-bodily formation--islands where flesh and blood
became semi-spiritual, and where the sense of beauty was an existence--have passed as a vision
of glory, never to return. One scarcely realizes how full of poetry was their mythology; all
successive ages have drawn on it for images of beauty without exhausting it; and painters and
artists, to this day, are fettered and repressed by vain efforts to reproduce it. But as a
religion for the soul and the heart, all this is vain and void; all powerless to give repose
or comfort. One who should seek repose on the bosom of such a mythology is as one who seeks
to pillow himself on the many-tinted clouds of evening; soft and beautiful as they are, there
is nothing real to them but their dampness and coldness.

Here M. and Madame Belloc entered, and as he wanted my opinion of the Diane, I let her read
this part of the letter to him in French. You ought to have seen M. Belloc, with tears in his
eyes, defending the old Greeks, and expounding to me, with all manner of rainbow illustrations,
the religious meanings of Greek mythology, and the morale of Greek tragedy. Such a whole souled
devotion to a nation dead and gone could never be found but in France. In the evening Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall called. They are admirably matched--he artist, she author. The one writes stories,
the other illustrates them. Madame M. also called. English by birth, she is a true Parisienne,
or, rather, seems to have both minds, as she speaks both languages, perfectly. Her husband
being a learned Oriental scholar, she, like some other women enjoying similar privileges, has
picked up a deal of information, which she tosses about in conversation, in a gay, piquant
manner, much as a kitten plays with a pin ball.

Madame remembers Mesdames Recamier and De Stael, and told me several funny anecdotes of the
former. Madame R., she said, was always coquetting with her own funeral; conversed with different
artists on the arrangements of its details, and tempting now one, now another, with the brilliant
hope of the "composition" of the scene. Madame M. offered me her services as cicerone to Paris,
and so to-day out we went--first to the Pantheon, of which, in her gay and piquant style, she
gave me the history.

Begun first in the time of Louis XVI. as a church, in the revolution its destination was altered,
and it was to be a temple to the manes of great men, and accordingly Rousseau, Voltaire, and
many more are buried here. Well, after the revolution, the Bourbons said it should not be a
temple for great men, it should be a church. The next popular upset tipped it back to the great
men again; and it staid under their jurisdiction until Louis Napoleon, who is very pious, restored
it to the church. It is not possible to say how much further this very characteristic rivalry
between great men and their Creator is going to extend. All I have to say is, that I should
not think the church much of an acquisition to either party. He that sitteth in the heavens
must laugh sometimes at what man calls worship. This Pantheon is, as one might suppose from
its history, a hybrid between a church and a theatre, and of course good for neither--purposeless
and aimless. The Madeleine is another of these hybrid churches, begun by D'Ivry as a church,
completed as a temple to victory by Napoleon, and on second thoughts, re-dedicated to God.

After strolling about a while, the sexton, or some official of the church, asked us if we did
not want to go down into the vaults below. As a large party seemed to be going to do the same,
I said, "0, yes, by all means; let us see it out." Our guide, with his cocked hat and lantern,
walked ahead, apparently in a now of excellent spirits. These caverns and tombs appeared to
be his particular forte, and he magnified his office in showing them. Down stairs we went,
none of us knowing what we wanted to see, or why. Our guide steps forth, unlocks the gate?
of Hades, and we enter a dark vault with a particularly earthy smell. Bang! he shuts the door
after him. Clash! he locks it; now we are in for it! and elevating his lantern, he commences
a deafening proclamation of some general fact concerning the very unsavory place in which we
find ourselves. Of said proclamation I hear only the thundering "Voila" at the commencement.
Next he proceeds to open the doors of certain stone vaulted chambers, where the great men are
buried, between whose claims and their Creator's there seems to be such an uncertainty in France.
Well, here they were, sure enough, maintaining their claim by right of possession.

"Voila le tombeau de Rousseau!" says the guide. All walked in piously, and stood to see a wooden
tomb painted red. At one end the tomb is made in the likeness of little doors, which stand
half open, and a hand is coming out of them holding a flambeau, by which it is intimated, I
suppose, that Rousseau in his grave is enlightening the world. After a short proclamation here,
we were shown into another stone chamber with "Voila le tombeau de Voltaire!" This was of wood
also, very nicely speckled and painted to resemble some kind of marble. Each corner of the
tomb had a tragic mask on it, with that captivating expression of countenance which belongs
to the tragic masks generally. There was in the room a marble statue of Voltaire, with that
wiry, sharp, keen, yet somewhat spiteful expression which his busts commonly have.

But our guide has finished his prelection here, and is striding off in the plenitude of his
wisdom. Now we are shown a long set of stone apartments, provided for future great men. Considering
the general scarcity of the article in most countries, these sleeping accommodations are remarkably
ample. Nobody need be discouraged in his attempts at greatness in Paris, for fear at last there
won't be room to bury him. After this we were marched to a place where our guide made a long
speech about a stone in the floor--very instructive, doubtless, if I had known what it was:
my Parisian friend said he spoke with such a German accent she could not understand; so we
humbly took the stone on trust, though it looked to the eye of sense quite like any other.

Then we were marched into a part of the vault celebrated for its echo. Our guide here outdid
himself; first we were commanded to form a line en militaire with our backs to the wall. Well,
we did form en militaire. I did it in the innocence of my heart, entirely ignorant of what
was to come next. Our guide, departing from that heroic grandeur of manner which had hitherto
distinguished him, suddenly commenced screaming and hooting in a most unparalleled style. The
echo was enough to deafen one, to be sure, and the first blast of it made us all jump. I could
think of nothing but Apollyon amusing himself at the expense of the poor pilgrims in the valley
of the shadow of death; for the exhibition was persisted in with a pertinacity inscrutable
to any wisdom except his own. It ended by a brace of thumps on the wall, each of which produced
a report equal to a cannon; and with this salvo of artillery the exhibition finished.

This worthy guide is truly a sublime character. Long may he live to show the Pantheon; and
when he dies, if so disagreeable an event must be contemplated, may he have the whole of one
of these stone chambers to himself; for nothing less could possibly contain him. He regretted
exceedingly that we could not go up into the dome; but I had had enough of stair climbing at
Strasbourg, Antwerp, and Cologne, and not even the prospect of enjoying his instructions could
tempt me.

Now this Pantheon seems to me a monument of the faults and the weakness of this very agreeable
nation. Its history shows their enthusiasm, their hero worship, and the want of stable religious
convictions. Nowhere has there been such a want of reverence for the Creator, unless in the
American Congress. The great men of France have always seemed to be in confusion as to whether
they made God or he made them. There is a great resemblance in some points between the French
and the ancient Athenians: there was the same excitability; the same keen outward life; the
same passion for ideas; the same spending of life in hearing or telling some new thing; the
same acuteness of philosophical research. The old Athenians first worshipped, and then banished
their great men,--buried them and pulled them up, and did generally a variety of things which
we Anglo-Saxons should call fantastic. There is this difference, that the Athenians had the
advantage of coming first. The French nation, born after this development, are exposed by their
very similarity of conformation, and their consequent sympathy with the old classic style of
feeling, to become imitators. This betrays itself in their painters and sculptors, and it is
a constant impulse to a kind of idolatry, which is not in keeping with this age, and necessarily
seems absurd. When the Greeks built altars to Force, Beauty, Victory, and other abstract ideas,
they were doing an original thing. When the French do it, they imitate the Greeks. Apotheosis
and hero worship in the old times had a freshness to it; it was one of the picturesque effects
of the dim and purple shadows of an early dawning, when objects imperfectly seen are magnified
in their dimensions; but the apotheosis, in modern times, of a man who has worn a dress coat,
wig, and shoes is quite another affair.

I do not mean either to say, as some do, that the French mind has very little of the religious
element. The very sweetest and softest, as well as the most austere and rigid type of piety
has been given by the French mind; witness Fenelon and John Calvin--Fenelon standing as the
type of the mystic, and Calvin of the rationalistic style of religion. Fenelon, with his heart
so sweet, so childlike, so simple and tender, was yet essentially French in his nature, and
represented one part of French mind; and what English devotional writer is at all like him?
John Newton had his simplicity and lovingness, but wanted that element of gracefulness and
classic sweetness which gave so high a tone to the writings of Fenelon. As to Calvin, his crystalline
clearness of mind, his calm, cold logic, his severe vehemence are French, also. To this day,
a French system of theology is the strongest and most coercive over the strongest of countries--Scotland
and America; and yet shallow thinkers flippantly say the French are incapable of religious ideas.

After Madame M. and I had finished the Pantheon we drove to the Conciergerie; for I wanted
to see the prison of the hapless Marie Antoinette. That restless architectural mania, which
never lets any thing alone here, is rapidly modernizing it; the scaffoldings are up, and workmen
busy in making it as little historical as possible. Nevertheless, the old, gloomy arched gateway,
and the characteristic peaked Norman towers, still remain; and we stopped our carriage the
other side of the Seine, to get a good look at it. We drove to the door, and tried to go in,
but were told that we could not without an order from somebody or other. (I forget who;) so
we were obliged to content ourselves with an outside view.

So we went to take another view of Notre Dame; the very same Notre Dame whose bells in the
good old days could be rung by the waving of Michael Scott's wand:--

  "Him listed but his wand to wave
   The bells should ring in Notre Dame."

I had been over it once before with Mrs. C., and sitting in a dark corner, with my head against
a cold, stone pillar, had heard vespers, all in the most approved style of the poetic. I went
back to it now to see how it looked after the cathedrals of Germany. The churches of France
have suffered dreadfully by the whirlwind spirit of its revolutions. At different times the
painted glass of this church has been shattered, and replaced by common, till now there is
too much light in it, though there are exquisite windows yet remaining. These cathedrals must
have painted glass; it is essential; the want of it is terrible; the dim, religious light is
necessary to keep you from seeing the dirty floors, hanging cobwebs, stacks of little, old
rush-bottomed chairs, and the prints where dirty heads and hands have approached too near the
stone pillars. As I sat hearing vespers in Notre Dame the first time, seeing these all too
plainly, may I be forgiven, but I could not help thinking of Lucifer's soliloquy in a cathedral
in the Golden Legend:--

  "What a darksome and dismal place!
   I wonder that any man has the face
   To call such a hole the house of the Lord
   And the gate of heaven--yet such is the word.
   Ceiling, and walls, and windows old,
   Covered with cobwebs, blackened with mould;
   Dust on the pulpit, dust on the stairs,
   Dust on the benches, and stalls, and chairs."

       *       *       *       *       *

However, Notre Dame is a beautiful church; but I wish it was under as good care as Cologne
Cathedral, and that instead of building Madeleines and Pantheons, France would restore and
preserve her cathedrals--those grand memorials of the past. I consider the King of Prussia
as not only a national benefactor, but the benefactor of the world. Cologne, when finished,
will be the great epic of architecture, and belong, like all great epics, to all mankind.

Well, Madame M. and I wandered up and down the vast aisles, she with her lively, fanciful remarks,
to which there was never wanting a vein both of shrewdness and good sense.

When we came out of Notre Dame, she chattered about the place. "There used to be an archbishop's
palace back of the church in that garden, but one day the people took it into their heads to
pull it down. I saw the silk-bottomed chairs floating down the Seine. They say that somebody
came and told Thiers, 'Do you know the people are rummaging the archbishop's palace?' and he
shrugged his shoulders and said, 'Let 'em work.' That's the say, you know; mind, I don't say
it is true! Well, he got enough of it at last. The fact is, that with, the French, destructiveness
is as much developed as constructiveness, and they are as good at one as the other."

As we were passing over one of the bridges, we saw a flower market, a gay show of flowers of
all hues, and a very brisk trade going on about them. Madame told me that there was a flower
market every day in the week, in different parts of the city. The flower trade was more than
usually animated to-day, because it is a saint's fete, the fete of St. Louis, the patron of Paris.

The streets every where showed men, women, and children, carrying their pots of blooming flowers.
Every person in Paris named Louis or Louise, after this saint, has received this day little
tokens of affection from their friends, generally bouquets or flowers. Madame Belloc is named
Louise, and her different friends and children called and brought flowers, and a beautiful
India China vase.

The life of Paris, indeed of the continent, is floral, to an extent of which the people in
the United States can form no conception. Flowers are a part of all their lives. The churches
are dressed with flowers, and on fete days are fragrant with them. A jardiniere forms a part
of the furniture of every parlor; a jardiniere is a receptacle made in various fanciful forms
for holding pots of flowers. These pots are bought at the daily flower market for a trifle,
in full bloom and high condition; they are placed in the jardiniere, the spaces around them
filled with sand and covered with moss.

Again, there are little hanging baskets suspended from the ceilings, and filled with flowers.
These things give a graceful and festive air to apartments. When the plants are out of bloom,
the porter of the house takes them, waters, prunes, and tends them, then sells them again:
meanwhile the parlor is ornamented with fresh ones. Along the streets on saints' days are little
booths, where small vases of artificial flowers are sold to dress the altars. I stopped to
look at one of these stalls, all brilliant with cheaply-made, showy vases of flowers, that
sell for one or two sous.

We went also to the National Academy of Fine Arts, a government school for the gratuitous instruction
of artists, a Grecian building, with a row of all the distinguished painters in front.

In the doorway, as we came in, was an antique, headless statue of Minerva; literally it was
Minerva's gown standing up--a pillar of drapery, nothing more, and drapery soiled, tattered,
and battered; but then it was an antique, and that is enough. Now, when antique things are
ugly, I do not like them any better for being antique, and I should rather have a modern statue
than Minerva's old gown. We went through all the galleries in this school, in one of which
the prize pieces of scholars are placed. Whoever gets one of these prizes is sent to study
in Rome at the expense of the government. We passed through the hall where the judges sit to
decide upon pictures, and through various others that I cannot remember. I was particularly
interested in the apartment devoted to the casts from the statuary in the Louvre and in other
palaces. These casts are taken with mathematical exactness, and subjected to the inspection
of a committee, who order any that are defective to be broken. Proof casts of all the best
works, ancient and modern, are thus furnished at a small price, and so brought within the reach
of the most moderate means.

This morning M. and Madame Belloc took me with them to call on Beranger, the poet. He is a
charming old man, very animated, with a face full of feeling and benevolence, and with that
agreeable simplicity and vivacity of manner which is peculiarly French. It was eleven o'clock,
but he had not yet breakfasted; we entreated him to waive ceremony, and so his maid brought
in his chop and coffee, and we all plunged into an animated conversation. Beranger went on
conversing with shrewdness mingled with childlike simplicity, a blending of the comic, the
earnest, and the complimentary. Conversation in a French circle seems to me like the gambols
of a thistle down, or the rainbow changes in soap bubbles. One laughs with tears in one's eyes.
One moment confounded with the absolute childhood of the simplicity, in the next one is a little
afraid of the keen edge of the shrewdness. This call gave me an insight into a French circle
which both amused and delighted me. Coming home, M. Belloc enlarged upon Beranger's benevolence
and kindness of heart. "No man," he said, "is more universally popular with the common people.
He has exerted himself much for the families of the unfortunate deportes to Cayenne." Then
he added, laughing, "A mechanic, one of my model sitters, was dilating upon his goodness--'What
a man! what sublime virtue! how is he beloved! Could I live to see his funeral! Quelle spectacle!
Quelle grande emotion!'"

At tea, Madame M. commented on the manners of a certain English lady of our acquaintance.

"She's an actress; she's too affected!"

Madame Belloc and I defended her.

"Ah," said M. Belloc, "you cannot judge; the French are never natural in England, nor the English
in France. Frenchmen in England are stupid and cross, trying to be dignified; and when the
English come to France, it's all guitar playing and capering, in trying to have esprit."

But it is hard to give a conversation in which the salient points are made by a rapid pantomime,
which effervesces like champagne.

Madame Belloc and Madame M. agree that the old French salon is no more; that none in the present
iron age can give the faintest idea of the brilliancy of the institution in its palmiest days.
The horrors and reverses of successive revolutions, have thrown a pall over the French heart.

I have been now, in all, about a month in this gay and flowery city, seeing the French people,
not in hotels and cafes, but in the seclusion of domestic life; received, when introduced,
not with ceremonious distance, as a stranger, but with confidence and affection, as a friend.

Though, according to the showing of my friends, Paris is empty of many of her most brilliant
ornaments, yet I have been so fortunate as to make the acquaintance of many noble and justly
celebrated people, and to feel as if I had gained a real insight into the French heart.

I liked the English and the Scotch as well as I could like any thing. And now, I equally like
the French. Exact opposites, you will say. For that reason all the more charming. The goodness
and beauty of the divine mind is no less shown in the traits of different races than of different
tribes of fruits and flowers. And because things are exact opposites, is no reason why we should
not like both. The eye is not like the hand, nor the ear like the foot; yet who condemns any
of them for the difference? So I regard nations as parts of a great common body, and national
differences as necessary to a common humanity.

I thought, when in English society, that it was as perfect and delightful as it could be. There
was worth of character, strength of principle, true sincerity, and friendship, charmingly expressed.
I have found all these, too, among the French, and besides them, something which charms me
the more, because it is peculiar to the French, and of a kind wholly different from any I have
ever had an experience of before. There is an iris-like variety and versatility of nature,
a quickness in catching and reflecting the various shades of emotion or fancy, a readiness
in seizing upon one's own half-expressed thoughts, and running them out in a thousand graceful
little tendrils, which is very captivating.

I know a general prejudice has gone forth, that the French are all mere outside, without any
deep reflection or emotion. This may be true of many. No doubt that the strength of that outward
life, that acuteness of the mere perceptive organization, and that tendency to social exhilaration,
which prevail, will incline to such a fault in many cases. An English reserve inclines to moroseness,
and Scotch perseverance to obstinacy; so this aerial French nature may become levity and insincerity;
but then it is neither the sullen Englishman, the dogged Scotchman, nor the shallow Frenchman
that we are to take as the national ideal. In each country we are to take the very best as
the specimen.

Now, it is true that, here in France, one can find people as judicious, quiet, discreet, and
religious, as any where in the world; with views of life as serious, and as earnest, not living
for pretence or show, but for the most rational and religious ends. Now, when all this goodness
is silvered over, as it were, reflecting like mother-of-pearl or opal, a thousand fanciful
shades and changes, is not the result beautiful? Some families into which I have entered, some
persons with whom I have talked, have left a most delightful impression upon my mind; and I
have talked, by means of imperfect English, French, and interpretations, with a good many.
They have made my heart bleed over the history of this most beautiful country. It is truly
mournful that a people with so many fine impulses, so much genius, appreciation, and effective
power, should, by the influence of historical events quite beyond the control of the masses,
so often have been thrown into a false position before the world, and been subjected to such
a series of agonizing revulsions and revolutions.

"O, the French are half tiger, half monkey!" said a cultivated American to me the other day.
Such remarks cut me to the heart, as if they had been spoken of a brother. And when they come
from the mouth of an American, the very shade of Lafayette, it would seem, might rise and say,
"Et tu, Brute!"

It is true, it is a sarcasm of Voltaire's; but Voltaire, though born a Frenchman, neither imbodied
nor was capable of understanding the true French ideal. The French head he had, but not the
French heart. And from his bitter judgment we might appeal to a thousand noble names. The generous
Henri IV., the noble Sully, and Bayard the knight sans peur et sans reproche, were these half
tiger and half monkey? Were John Calvin and Fenelon half tiger and half monkey? Laplace, Geoffroy
St. Hilaire, Cuvier, Des Cartes, Malebranche, Arago--what were they? The tree of history is
enriched with no nobler and fairer boughs and blossoms than have grown from the French stock.

It seems a most mysterious providence that some nations, without being wickeder than others,
should have a more unfortunate and disastrous history.

The woes of France have sprung from the fact that a Jezebel de Medici succeeded in exterminating
from the nation that portion of the people corresponding to the Puritans of Scotland, England,
and Germany. The series of persecutions which culminated in the massacre of St. Bartholomew,
and ended with the dragonades under Louis XIV., drained France of her lifeblood. Other nations
have profited by the treasures then cast out of her, and she has remained poor for want of
them. Some of the best blood in America is of the old Huguenot stock. Huguenots carried arts
and manufactures into England. An expelled French refugee became the theological leader of
Puritanism in England, Scotland, and America; and wherever John Calvin's system of theology
has gone, civil liberty has gone with it; so that we might almost say of France, as the apostle
said of Israel, "If the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them
the riches of the Gentiles, how much more their fulness!"

When the English and Americans sneer at the instability, turbulence, and convulsions of the
French nation for the last century, let us ask ourselves what our history would have been had
the "Gunpowder Plot" succeeded, and the whole element of the reformation been exterminated.
It is true, vitality and reactive energy might have survived such a process; but that vitality
would have shown itself just as it has in France--in struggles and convulsions. The frequent
revolutions of France are not a thing to be sneered at; they are not evidences of fickleness,
but of constancy; they are, in fact, a prolonged struggle for liberty, in which there occur
periods of defeat, but in which, after every interval of repose, the strife is renewed. Their
great difficulty has been, that the destruction of the reformed church in France took out of
the country entirely that element of religious rationalism which is at once conservative and
progressive.

