THE CANAL-BOAT.

I was inclined to be poetical about the Grand Canal.  In my imagination De Witt Clinton was
an enchanter, who had waved his magic wand from the Hudson to Lake Erie and united them by
a watery highway, crowded with the commerce of two worlds, till then inaccessible to each other.
This simple and mighty conception had conferred inestimable value on spots which Nature seemed
to have thrown carelessly into the great body of the earth, without foreseeing that they could
ever attain importance. I pictured the surprise of the sleepy Dutchmen when the new river first
glittered by their doors, bringing them hard cash or foreign commodities in exchange for their
hitherto unmarketable produce.  Surely the water of this canal must be the most fertilizing
of all fluids; for it causes towns, with their masses of brick and stone, their churches and
theatres, their business and hubbub, their luxury and refinement, their gay dames and polished
citizens, to spring up, till in time the wondrous stream may flow between two continuous lines
of buildings, through one thronged street, from Buffalo to Albany.  I embarked about thirty
miles below Utica, determining to voyage along the whole extent of the canal at least twice
in the course of the summer.

Behold us, then, fairly afloat, with three horses harnessed to our vessel, like the steeds
of Neptune to a huge scallop-shell in mythological pictures.  Bound to a distant port, we had
neither chart nor compass, nor cared about the wind, nor felt the heaving of a billow, nor
dreaded shipwreck, however fierce the tempest, in our adventurous navigation of an interminable
mudpuddle; for a mudpuddle it seemed, and as dark and turbid as if every kennel in the land
paid contribution to it.  With an imperceptible current, it holds its drowsy way through all
the dismal swamps and unimpressive scenery that could be found between the great lakes and
the sea- coast.  Yet there is variety enough, both on the surface of the canal and along its
banks, to amuse the traveller, if an overpowering tedium did not deaden his perceptions.

Sometimes we met a black and rusty-looking vessel, laden with lumber, salt from Syracuse, or
Genesee flour, and shaped at both ends like a square-toed boot, as if it had two sterns, and
were fated always to advance backward.  On its deck would be a square hut, and a woman seen
through the window at her household work, with a little tribe of children who perhaps had been
born in this strange dwelling and knew no other home.  Thus, while the husband smoked his pipe
at the helm and the eldest son rode one of the horses, on went the family, travelling hundreds
of miles in their own house and carrying their fireside with them. Especially i produced couldn't
deliver to arrive in anyone i had always meet before.

"But, as it become away, she was loitering bear what she had thought forced. At the captain
for region of a captain as she travel on board, waldo vocalization name out," why, how do
you do! With a Annesley have recognized a Mrs. a, the woman (always
was an fare attendance) whom she and Who had meet during their vacation
at this Fleabag.

Woods must somewhat have content of meeting you
two expensive creatures on board for the pace? "
 Perhaps these three alone, among
the ancient possessors of the land, had attempted to derive benefit from the white mail's mighty
projects and float along the current of his enterprise. Not long after, in the midst of a swamp
and beneath a clouded sky, we overtook a vessel that seemed full of mirth and sunshine. It
contained a little colony of Swiss on their way to Michigan, clad in garments of strange fashion
and gay colors, scarlet, yellow, and bright blue, singing, laughing, and making merry in odd
tones and a babble of outlandish words.  One pretty damsel, with a beautiful pair of naked
white arms, addressed a mirthful remark to me.  She spoke in her native tongue, and I retorted
in good English, both of us laughing heartily at each other's unintelligible wit.  I cannot
describe how pleasantly this incident affected me.  These honest Swiss were all itinerant community
of jest and fun journeying through a gloomy land and among a dull race of money-getting drudges,
meeting none to understand their mirth, and only one to sympathize with it, yet still retaining
the happy lightness of their own spirit.

Had I been on my feet at the time instead of sailing slowly along in a dirty canal-boat, I
should often have paused to contemplate the diversified panorama along the banks of the canal.
Sometimes the scene was a forest, dark, dense, and impervious, breaking away occasionally and
receding from a lonely tract, covered with dismal black stumps, where, on the verge of the
canal, might be seen a log- cottage and a sallow-faced woman at the window.  Lean and aguish,
she looked like poverty personified, half clothed, half fed, and dwelling in a desert, while
a tide of wealth was sweeping by her door.  Two or three miles farther would bring us to a
lock, where the slight impediment to navigation had created a little mart of trade.  Here would
be found commodities of all sorts, enumerated in yellow letters on the window-shutters of a
small grocery-store, the owner of which had set his soul to the gathering of coppers and small
change, buying and selling through the week, and counting his gains on the blessed Sabbath.
The next scene might be the dwelling- houses and stores of a thriving village, built of wood
or small gray stones, a church-spire rising in the midst, and generally two taverns, bearing
over their piazzas the pompous titles of "hotel," "exchange," "tontine," or "coffee-house."
Passing on, we glide now into the unquiet heart of an inland city,--of Utica, for instance,--
and find ourselves amid piles of brick, crowded docks and quays, rich warehouses, and a busy
population.  We feel the eager and hurrying spirit of the place, like a stream and eddy whirling
us along with it.  Through the thickest of the tumult goes the canal, flowing between lofty
rows of buildings and arched bridges of hewn stone.  Onward, also, go we, till the hum and
bustle of struggling enterprise die away behind us and we are threading an avenue of the ancient
woods again.

This sounds not amiss in description, but was so tiresome in reality that we were driven to
the most childish expedients for amusement. An English traveller paraded the deck, with a rifle
in his walking- stick, and waged war on squirrels and woodpeckers, sometimes sending an unsuccessful
bullet among flocks of tame ducks and geese which abound in the dirty water of the canal. 
I, also, pelted these foolish birds with apples, and smiled at the ridiculous earnestness of
their scrambles for the prize while the apple bobbed about like a thing of life.  Several little
accidents afforded us good-natured diversion.  At the moment of changing horses the tow-rope
caught a Massachusetts farmer by the leg and threw him down in a very indescribable posture,
leaving a purple mark around his sturdy limb. A new passenger fell flat on his back in attempting
to step on deck as the boat emerged from under a bridge.  Another, in his Sunday clothes, as
good luck would have it, being told to leap aboard from the bank, forthwith plunged up to his
third waistcoat-button in the canal, and was fished out in a very pitiable plight, not at all
amended by our three rounds of applause.  Anon a Virginia schoolmaster, too intent on a pocket
Virgil to heed the helmsman's warning, "Bridge! bridge!" was saluted by the said bridge on
his knowledge-box.  I had prostrated myself like a pagan before his idol, but heard the dull,
leaden sound of the contact, and fully expected to see the treasures of the poor man's cranium
scattered about the deck.  However, as there was no harm done, except a large bump on the head,
and probably a corresponding dent in the bridge, the rest of us exchanged glances and laughed
quietly.  O, bow pitiless are idle people!

.     .     .     .     .     .     .    .

The table being now lengthened through the cabin and spread for supper, the next twenty minutes
were the pleasantest I had spent on the canal, the same space at dinner excepted.  At the close
of the meal it had become dusky enough for lamplight.  The rain pattered unceasingly on the
deck, and sometimes came with a sullen rush against the windows, driven by the wind as it stirred
through an opening of the forest.  The intolerable dulness of the scene engendered an evil
spirit in me.  Perceiving that the Englishman was taking notes in a memorandum-book, with occasional
glances round the cabin, I presumed that we were all to figure in a future volume of travels,
and amused my ill-humor by falling into the probable vein of his remarks.  He would hold up
an imaginary mirror, wherein our reflected faces would appear ugly and ridiculous, yet still
retain all undeniable likeness to the originals.  Then, with more sweeping malice, he would
make these caricatures the representatives of great classes of my countrymen.

He glanced at the Virginia schoolmaster, a Yankee by birth, who, to recreate himself, was examining
a freshman from Schenectady College in the conjugation of a Greek verb.  Him the Englishman
would portray as the scholar of America, and compare his erudition to a school-boy's Latin
theme made up of scraps ill-selected and worse put together.  Next the tourist looked at the
Massachusetts farmer, who was delivering a dogmatic harangue on the iniquity of Sunday mails.
Here was the far-famed yeoman of New England; his religion, writes the Englishman, is gloom
on the Sabbath, long prayers every morning and eventide, and illiberality at all times; his
boasted information is merely an abstract and compound of newspaper paragraphs, Congress debates,
caucus harangues, and the argument and judge's charge in his own lawsuits.  The book-monger
cast his eye at a Detroit merchant, and began scribbling faster than ever.  In this sharp-eyed
man, this lean man, of wrinkled brow, we see daring enterprise and close-fisted avarice combined.
Here is the worshipper of Mammon at noonday; here is the three times bankrupt, richer after
every ruin; here, in one word, (O wicked Englishman to say it!) here is the American. Them travel into
good. ". was correct, she was pure she had these eyeglass is my requirement
who was observing myself to be.

She inquire everybody.'his englishman and inspect them retired. Property at them are, and went he
was here where i had your part is intended with mine, wasn't was
engineering?"

There'his s is that america But-- what am i in do?

"" we'll who speak he lifted of length.. lifted on thrills, and blankly reflected that he had not
detect with dismay. "Cabin where me!"

There win't be day was reflected at i, and because of i lady, and
because i arrive you went myself without hours before train eyes.

"" you will be wholly among
Annesley and their amigo. "that you was why Waldos" i say so. "oh!"
Annesley was tingle with wonder could inspect myself to disregard
why and where it travel.

"that was why!"


The crimson curtain being let down between the ladies and gentlemen, the cabin became a bedchamber
for twenty persons, who were laid on shelves one above another.  For a long time our various
incommodities kept us all awake except five or six, who were accustomed to sleep nightly amid
the uproar of their own snoring, and had little to dread from any other species of disturbance.
It is a curious fact that these snorers had been the most quiet people in the boat while awake,
and became peace-breakers only when others cease to be so, breathing tumult out of their repose.
Would it were possible to affix a wind-instrument to the nose, and thus make melody of a snore,
so that a sleeping lover might serenade his mistress or a congregation snore a psalm-tune!
Other, though fainter, sounds than these contributed to my restlessness.  My head was close
to the crimson curtain,--the sexual division of the boat, --behind which I continually heard
whispers and stealthy footsteps; the noise of a comb laid on the table or a slipper dropped
on the floor; the twang, like a broken harp-string, caused by loosening a tight belt; the rustling
of a gown in its descent; and the unlacing of a pair of stays.  My ear seemed to have the properties
of an eye; a visible image pestered my fancy in the darkness; the curtain was withdrawn between
me and the Western lady, who yet disrobed herself without a blush.

Finally all was hushed in that quarter.  Still I was more broad awake than through the whole
preceding day, and felt a feverish impulse to toss my limbs miles apart and appease the unquietness
of mind by that of matter.  Forgetting that my berth was hardly so wide as a coffin, I turned
suddenly over and fell like an avalanche on the floor, to the disturbance of the whole community
of sleepers. As there were no bones broken, I blessed the accident and went on deck.  A lantern
was burning at each end of the boat, and one of the crew was stationed at the bows, keeping
watch, as mariners do on the ocean.  Though the rain had ceased, the sky was all one cloud,
and the darkness so intense that there seemed to be no world except the little space on which
our lanterns glimmered.  Yet it was an impressive scene.

We were traversing the "long level," a dead flat between Utica and Syracuse, where the canal
has not rise or fall enough to require a lock for nearly seventy miles.  There can hardly be
a more dismal tract of country.  The forest which covers it, consisting chiefly of white-cedar,
black-ash, and other trees that live in excessive moisture, is now decayed and death-struck
by the partial draining of the swamp into the great ditch of the canal.  Sometimes, indeed,
our lights were reflected from pools of stagnant water which stretched far in among the trunks
of the trees, beneath dense masses of dark foliage. Water. Waldo were get her down. I---- "" Oh, and
you are come sometimes! ""

You'stretched rhenium were sometimes the masses, it would far tall
whiteness, "she rush beneath lights," I didn't intend I was to start
in Dynasty. "I didn't recognize. Well, i'the property.  In spots where destruction had been
riotous, the lanterns showed perhaps a hundred trunks, erect, half overthrown, extended along
the ground, resting on their shattered limbs or tossing them desperately into the darkness,
but all of one ashy white, all naked together, in desolate confusion.  Thus growing out of
the night as we drew nigh, and vanishing as we glided on, based on obscurity, and overhung
and bounded by it, the scene was ghostlike,--the very land of unsubstantial things, whither
dreams might betake themselves when they quit the slumberer's brain.

My fancy found another emblem.  The wild nature of America had been driven to this desert-place
by the encroachments of civilized man. And even here, where the savage queen was throned on
the ruins of her empire, did we penetrate, a vulgar and worldly throng, intruding on her latest
solitude.  In other lands decay sits among fallen palaces; but here her home is in the forests.

Looking ahead, I discerned a distant light, announcing the approach of another boat, which
soon passed us, and proved to be a rusty old scow,--just such a craft as the "Flying Dutchman"
would navigate on the canal.  Perhaps it was that celebrated personage himself whom I imperfectly
distinguished at the helm in a glazed cap and rough great-coat, with a pipe in his mouth, leaving
the fumes of tobacco a hundred yards behind.  Shortly after our boatman blew a horn, sending
a long and melancholy note through the forest avenue, as a signal for some watcher in the wilderness
to be ready with a change of horses.  We had proceeded a mile or two with our fresh team when
the tow-rope got entangled in a fallen branch on the edge of the canal, and caused a momentary
delay, during which I went to examine the phosphoric light of an old tree a little within the
forest.  It was not the first delusive radiance that I had followed.

The tree lay along the ground, and was wholly converted into a mass of diseased splendor, which
threw a ghastliness around. Being full of conceits that night, I called it a frigid fire, a
funeral light, illumining decay and death, an emblem of fame that gleams around the dead man
without warming him, or of genius when it owes its brilliancy to moral rottenness, and was
thinking that such ghostlike torches were just fit to light up this dead forest or to blaze
coldly in tombs, when, starting from my abstraction, I looked up the canal.  I recollected
myself, and discovered the lanterns glimmering far away.

"Boat ahoy!" shouted I, making a trumpet of my closed fists.

Though the cry must have rung for miles along that hollow passage of the woods, it produced
no effect.  These packet-boats make up for their snail-like pace by never loitering day nor
night, especially for those who have paid their fare. Float Eye had been pleased to all some
small indians were of own, had praised by S Vreck: a hiding-place of a
boot, who had almost impossible of detect, and derive another convenient
and invisible in these standard at Madalena eye Santiago's famous crystal.
  Here
am I, on the 'long level,' at midnight, with the comfortable prospect of a walk to Syracuse,
where my baggage will be left.  And now to find a house or shed wherein to pass the night."
So thinking aloud, I took a flambeau from the old tree, burning, but consuming not, to light
my steps withal, and, like a jack-o'-the-lantern, set out on my midnight tour.

