Quadrupeds, what they are and where found, by Captain Mayne Reid.

This is a fairly short book, but it certainly hits the spot, for its aim is to inform young
people about the four-legged animals of our planet, and this it does very competently.

Of course there is no reason why young ladies should not read this book: I am sure they would
enjoy this just as much Reid's target readership, which was boys.

There are 24 chapters, each dealing with a kind of animal.  Sometimes an animal genus is given
two chapters, for instance domestic dogs, and wild dogs.  One grouse: the phrase "well-known"
occurs over forty times. Would the "well-known" fact be well-known to the book's intended readership?
Probably not.

There are a score of very nice illustrations, most showing numerous animals of that chapter's
genus.

QUADRUPEDS, WHAT THEY ARE AND WHERE FOUND, BY CAPTAIN MAYNE REID.

PREFACE.

I have been called upon to write illustrative sketches to a series of engravings, designed
by an eminent artist.  In performing my part of the work I have thrown the Mammalia into twenty-four
groups--corresponding more or less to the picture designs--and have dwelt chiefly on the geographical
distribution of the animals.  The Cetaceae and Vespertilionidae are properly omitted.

In the groups given there is no attempt made at any very scientific arrangement.  The sketches
are purely of a popular character, even the scientific nomenclature being avoided.  It is hoped,
however, that they may prove of service to the zoological tyro, and form as it were his first
stepping-stone to a higher order of classification.

In reality, notwithstanding the prodigious speculations of learned anatomists, no truly good
arrangement of the Mammalia has yet been arrived at; the deficiency arising from the fact that,
as yet, no true zoologist has had the opportunity of a sufficiently extended observation of
the natural habits of animals. 

William fell silent and looked straight ahead. Natalie looked at him she noticed he was pale. "Your
joy is strong," she continued, "it takes the form of terror, it robs Them the language. My
part is not the less welcome because it still me to the word allowed to come. I hope you will
be grateful, for I must tell you that my influence on Theresa's resolution was not low, she
asked me for advice, and strangely enough They were just here, I was the few doubt that my
friend still held, happy To defeat the messengers were lively to and fro, here is her decision!
here is the development! And now you have read all your letters, you are in the heart of your beautiful
bride a free, clean look to do. "

Wilhelm unfolded the sheet that she handed him unsealed, it contained the kind Words:

"I am yours, as I am and how you know me. I call them my own, as you and how do I know you.
What to ourselves, what changed in our conditions of marriage, we will know to transfer responsibility
by reason, joyful courage and good will. Since we do not Passion, but passion and confidence
leads together, so we venture less than a thousand others. Certainly forgive me if I sometimes
remember my old friend warmly; I will press for your son as a mother to my bosom. Do you want my little
house instantly share with me, you are lord and master, however, the Gutskauf completed. I wish
that there would not make any new device without me to show at once that I deserve the confidence
you give me. Farewell, my dear, dear friend! Beloved Bridegroom, dear husband! Therese pressed it
to her breast with hope and joy. My friend will give you more, will tell you everything. "

William, this paper realizes his Therese had again completely, was
also re- completely come to himself.

In reading, the fastest in his thoughts changed Soul. With horror, he found traces of a lively
inclination to Natalie in his heart; he scolded himself, he declared all thoughts of the kind of
nonsense, he put himself in Theresa before its full perfection, he re-read the letter, he was
cheerful, or rather he recovered to the point that he seems serene could. Natalie put her letters
exchanged before, from which we want to take some points.

After Therese had described her groom after their kind, she continued:

"So
I imagine the man who offered me his hand now.

How he of himself think you will see in future from the papers in
which he describes me quite openly; I am certain that I will be happy
with him.

"

"As for the state, so you know, as I have always thought about it.

Some people feel the disproportion of the external conditions terribly and can not carry over.
I want to convince anyone, so as I will act according to my convictions. I think to be no example of
how I act is not without precedent. I am frightened by only the inner Imbalances, a vessel that
is to what it should contain, do not send, much Little pomp and pleasure, wealth and greed, nobility
and brutality, youth and pedantry, need and ceremonies, these conditions would it be, that
I could destroy the world like them stamp and appreciate how they want. "

"If I hope that we will go together, so I base my statement EXCELLENT
that he you, dear Natalie, I appreciate and adore so infinitely that
he'll is similar.

Yes, he has the noble of you searching and striving for the better, so we the good that we do
find it even produce. How many times have I not see you in silent blamed that you treated
this person differently or that, that you in this fraud or that case you differently than I
would have done, and yet showed the output usually that you were right. "If we do," you said,
"people take only what they are, we make them worse, if we treat them as if they were what
they should be, we bring them to where they should be brought. "I can neither see nor act, I
know quite well. Insight, order, discipline, command, that's my thing. I remember I still well
what Jarno said: "Therese is trained their wards, Natalie them." Yes, He went so far as to
me once the three nice properties: faith, hope and love completely denied. "Instead of faith,"
he said, "she has the insight, instead of love Perseverance and the confidence instead of hope.
"And I will confess to you happy, eh I knew you, I knew nothing higher in the world as clarity
and wisdom, only your Presence has convinced me alive, his suicide, and your beautiful, high soul
I step like the rank from. Even my friend, I adore in the very same sense, and his biography
is an eternal and can not find, but not the empty search, but the wonderful, Search natured
endowed him, he imagines that one can give what can only come from him. So, my love hurts me
also this time my clarity is concerned, I know my husband better, than he knows himself, and
I respect him just the more. I see him, but I see about him, and all my understanding is enough to
imagine not watching, what he can contribute. If I think of him, his image always mixed with
yours, and I do not know how I 'm worth it, anzugehoeren two such people. But I want it to be worth
in that I am doing my duty, in that I fulfilled what you can expect from me and hope. "

"Whether I intend Lothario? Lively and every day. Him I can in society, the me In the spirit
surrounds, not to miss a moment. Oh, how I regret the excellent man used by a youth mistake
with me, is that nature intended it to you so close has. Truly, a creature as you would be
its worth more than me. To you I can see, you I would have to cede
it.

Let us be to him what is possible, until it finds a worthy wife, and then let us be together
and stay together. "

"What to say now but our friends?" Natalie began .-- "Your brother knows nothing of ?"--" No!
any more than yours, the thing is this time just us women have been negotiated. I Do not know
what Lydia Theresa for grilling has set her mind, she seems the Abbe
and to distrust Jarno.

Lydie has her secret to certain compounds and plans, of which I well know, in general, which I thought
but never penetrate, at least some Instilled suspicion, and at this crucial stage of her life
she wanted no one as I admit of some influence. With my brother was already more than agreed
earlier, that they are alternately declare their marriage only, not about it wanted to help. "

Natalie
now wrote a letter to her brother, she invited Wilhelm, to enforce a few words, Therese had asked
them. We wanted to seal, when Jarno unexpectedly register left. He was most friendly welcome,
and he seemed very alert and joking and could not fail at last to say: "Actually, I'll come here
to give you a very to bring beautiful, but pleasant news, it relates
to our Therese.

They have sometimes blamed, beautiful Natalie, that we worry so much, but now you see, how good it
is to have his spies everywhere. Guess and let us once your Sagacity to see! "

The complacent with which he spoke these words, the mischievous look, which he Wilhelm and Natalie
looked at her, testified about both that her secret was discovered. Natalie said smile: "We
are much artificial than you think, we have the answer to the riddle, even before it was abandoned
us, already brought to paper. "

They handed him the letter with these words of Lothario, and was satisfied, the small surprise and
shame that had been intended for them to meet, in this way. Jarno took the paper with some surprise,
it only ran about, amazed, let it out of the Hand sink and saw them both with large eyes with
an expression of surprise, even of Horror, it's the one on his face
was not used.

He did not say a word.

William and Natalie were not a little, Jarno went into the room and down. "What I say, "cried
he," or shall I say it? It can not remain a secret, the Confusion is inevitable. So as to secret
secret! against some surprise! Therese is the daughter of her mother!

The obstacle is raised, I come here to ask you to prepare the noble girl to a connection with
Lothario. "

Jarno saw the consternation of the two friends, who lowered his eyes to the ground. "This Case
is one of those, "he said," which is unbearable in society at worst.

What each has to think of it, it thinks best in solitude, I ask at least I leave for an hour. "He
hurried into the garden, Wilhelm followed him mechanically, but in the distance.

After an hour they found themselves together again. William took the floor and said: "Otherwise,
I lived without purpose and plan slightly, so carelessly, I began
to friendship, love, Tendency to trust with open arms, so they crowded
to me, now that is serious is the fate seems to me to take another
route.

The decision to Therese my Single source, is perhaps the first who comes in from all over myself.
With consideration I made my plan, my reason was so totally agree, and the promise of the excellent
Girl all my hopes were fulfilled. Now press the strangest fate my outstretched hand down. Therese
hands me hers from a distance, as in a dream, I can Do not touch, and the beautiful picture leaves
me forever. So live as well, you beautiful Image! and their images of the most bliss that you collect
about you here! "

He was silent a moment, looked to himself, and wanted to talk Jarno. "Let me say something, "interrupted
Wilhelm him one," for all my skill to be after all this time the lot thrown. At that moment I
get the impression comes to the rescue, the presence of Lothario
at first sight impresses me and has stayed with me constantly.

This man deserves any kind of affection and friendship, and without sacrifice can be no friendship
. Think For his sake, it was easy for me to beguile, an unhappy girl, for his sake I should
be possible to renounce the most worthy bride. Go out, you tell him the strange story to tell him
what I'm ready. "

Jarno said then: "In such cases, I think it's all done, if you just do not rush. Let us take no step
without consent Lothario! I want him, you expect my return his letters or calmly. "

He rode away and left the two friends in the greatest sadness. They had time to to repeat this
event on more than one way and give their comments about it. Now it fell on them until they accepted
this wonderful explanation as straight from Jarno and had not inquired
about the circumstances.

Yes Wilhelm was even some Have doubts, but it rose to the highest astonishment and even their
confusion, as the next day A messenger from Theresa arrived, the following singular letter brought
to Natalie:

"Strange as it may seem, but I have to my previous letters at once another redirect up and ask
me to send my fiance in a hurry. He is my husband be what you do
for planned to rob me of him.

Give him the enclosed letter! Only from no witnesses, it may be present who will. "

The letter to Wilhelm contained the following: "What will you think of your Theresa, when she
at once passionate connection to a penetrating, who opened the calmest
mind only seemed to have?

Let yourself be deterred by anything, immediately after the receipt of the letter to leave. Come,
dear, dear friend, now three-lover since I was your property wants to steal or at least more difficult.
"

"What do I do?" exclaimed William as he had read this letter.

"Yet in no case," said Natalie after some thought, "My heart and my
mind Sun silent than this, I know of nothing to do, so I know how
to guess anything.

"

"Would it be possible?" Wilhelm said with vehemence, "that Lothario himself did not know it,
or when he becomes aware that he would be with us the hidden game plan? Jarno has by he saw our letter
invented the story on the spur? He would us something different have said if we would not have
been too hasty? What you can do? What kind intentions one can have? What can Therese for my
a plan? Yes, it can not be denied, Lothario surrounded by secret effects and connections,
I have experienced myself that They are doing that you are in a sense, the actions to the fate
distressed and she knows several people to conduct. Of the final causes of these secrets I understand
nothing, but this latest intention to wrest from me Theresa, I see all too significantly.
On one side you paint my happiness possible Lothario, perhaps only Tickets, front; on the other,
I see my beloved, my dear bride, the me to her Heart calls.

What should I do? What steps can I do? "

"Just a little patience!" Natalie said, "only a short cooling-off! In this strange Verknuepfung
I know only so much that we do what is irretrievably hurry, you do not want. Against a fairy tale,
against an artificial plan are perseverance and wisdom with us, it must be cleared up soon if the matter
is true or whether it is invented. Did my brother really Hope to connect with Theresa, it would
be cruel to snatch him a lucky forever at the moment, because it
appears to him as friendly.

Let us wait and see if it something it knows whether he himself believes that he hopes himself.
"

Reasons that their advice was fortunately a letter from Lothario to his aid: "I send Jarno never
returned, "he wrote," is a line from my hand you more circumstances than the Words of a messenger.
I'm sure that Theresa is not the daughter of her mother, and I can hope to have it up, not until
she is convinced, and then between me and the friends decide to calm
reflection.

Let him, I beg you, not leave your side! The lucky, the life of a brother depends on it. I promise
you, this uncertainty will not last long.

"

"You see how the matter stands," she said to Wilhelm friendly, "you
give me your word of honor not to leave the house.

"

"I give it!" he exclaimed, as he gave her his hand, "I want this house against your Sake do not
leave. I thank God and my good spirit, that I will run this time, namely you. "

Natalie Theresa wrote the whole story, and explained that she her boyfriend of may be going, they
also sent letters to Lothario.

Therese said: "I'm not a little surprised that Lothario is himself convinced, because to his sister
he will not adjust to this level. I am vexed, very peevish. It is better, I say no more. The
best thing is, I come to you if I have only accommodated only the poor Lydia, which people cruel.
I'm afraid we are cheating all and be deceived, never to come into the clear. If the friend
my mind would have, he escaped but you and cast at the heart of his Therese, then no one should
snatch him, but I'm afraid I will lose him and Lothario not recover. This rescues you Lydia,
giving him the hope I have to be able to show from a distance. I'll say no more, the confusion
is even bigger be. If not, however, postponed the most beautiful relationships so, and thus
undermine be broken down that even if everything will be in the clear, but not to help again
is, time may tell. Tears, my friend did not go, I will come in a few days, order to help you seek out
and record. You wonder how this passion is Therese has taken possession of your. There is
no passion, there is conviction that, since Lothario could not be mine, this new friend will
make the happiness of my life. Tell him that in the name of the little boy who sat with him
under the oak tree and its participation happy! Tell him that in the name of Theresa, which his
proposal with a warm openness entgegenkam!

My first dream, I would live with Lothario, is far from my soul moved away, the dream, as
I intended to live with my new friend, is still quite presently before me. Pay attention to me
so little that you think it is something easy that with that on the spur again to exchange? "

"I'm
counting on you," Natalie said to Wilhelm, giving him the letter, Therese was, "you do not
escape me Remember that the happiness of my life in your hands. have! My existence is the existence
of my brother so intimately connected and rooted to he can feel no pain I do not feel no joy
that not even my Glueck makes.

Yes I can say that I have felt alone with him that the heart stirred and raised that may be
on the world joy, love and a sense that over satisfied beyond all need. "

She paused, William took her hand and cried: "O you go It's the right time! a true, mutual trust,
and we have never had need to know us more accurately ".

"Yes, my friend!" she said, smiling in her quiet, gentle, indescribable
majesty, "It is perhaps not the time except when I tell you that everything
that so many Book that calls us the world as love, and shows me had
appeared only as a fairy tale.

"

"They have not loved?" exclaimed Wilhelm.

"Never or ever!" said Natalie.

Book VIII, 5 Chapter - 1

Chapter Five

They had gone from this conversation in the garden and down, Natalie had different Flowers of a strange
form of broken, the Wilhelm were completely unknown, and after their Name he asked.

"They probably think not," said Natalie, "for whom I gather that Strauss? It is for my uncle,
determined that we want to make a visit. The sun shines just as bright to the hall of the past, I
have to lead you into this moment, and I never even without some of the flowers that my uncle had
promoted particularly to bring. He was a remarkable man and the most personal impressions
capable. For certain plants and Animals, for some people and places, and even some types of stone
he had a decided Inclination, which was rarely explicable. "If I do not," he would often say,
"my youth on so much would have resisted if I would have not sought, my mind into the distance
Education and training, I would be the narrowest and most intolerable
made man: Nothing is more intolerable than cut singularity of the
person from the one you pure, corresponding activity may require.

"Yet he himself had to admit that as it were Live and breath would come if he is not from time
to time nachsaehe and allowed to enjoy the passion with which he could not apologize over and
just praise. "My fault, it is not," he said, "if I do my instincts and my sanity completely I
can bring into compliance. "On such occasions he used mostly about me to joke and say, Natalie can be
blessed in his body, because their nature is nothing calls, as the desires of the world and
needs. "

With these words they were re-enters the main building. She led him by a spacious walk on a door,
before there were two sphinxes of granite. The door itself was on Egyptian way up a little narrower
than the bottom, and their brazen wings prepared a serious, even before a gruesome sight. How pleasant
it was surprised, therefore, than this expectation, in the purest serenity dissolves by stepped
into a room, abolished in which art and life, all memory of death and the grave. In the walls were relatively
Arch depth, in which coffins were bigger, the pillars could be seen between smaller openings, decorated
with Aschenkaestchen and vessels, and the remaining areas of Walls and the vault was seen regularly divided
between varied and cheerful and Mounts, wreaths and ornaments, cheerful and significant figures
in various fields of Size painted.

The architectural elements were with the beautiful yellow marble, the Reddish hinueberblickt
dressed, light blue stripes of a happy chemical composition collected after the blue stone and gave,
by contrast, as it satisfied in the eye, the whole unit and connection. All this pomp and
ornament turned into pure architectural Conditions are, and so did
everyone who went in, to be overly self-imposed by the coincident
art first found out what man is and what he can be.

Opposite the door you could see a magnificent domain sarcophagi, the marble image of a worthy
Man, leaning against a cushion. He was a role before and seemed in silent attention . Daraufzublicken
She was so focused that you read the words they contained, comfortable could. It stood out:
"Remember to live!"

Natalie, by taking away a withered bouquet,
fresh presented the image of his uncle; for he himself was presented
in the figure, and Wilhelm believed to have the features of the old
to remember Lord, he had seen in the forest. "We took many hours ,
"said Natalie," until the room was ready. In his last years he had
some skillful artists drawn to him, and his best entertainment was
the drawings and Cartons to contrive these paintings and determine
to help. "

In swimming, the Polar bear not only moves rapidly through the water, but is also capable of
darting forward in such a way as to seize a fish before it can escape beyond reach.  On the
land, also, he can move with rapidity--his slouching trot being almost as fast as the gallop
of a horse.

Individuals have been shot that weighed as much as 1600 pounds!

Polar bears are found along the shores of the Arctic Ocean, both in Asia and America.  They
do not go to sleep in winter--that is, the males do not.  The females with young, however,
bury themselves in the snow-- having formed a lair--and there remain until they bring forth
their young.  The cubs are often captured in these snow caves, which the Esquimaux discover
by means of dogs trained for this peculiar purpose.

The Grizzly bear next merits attention.  This formidable animal was, for a long time, supposed
to be a variety either of the brown bear of Europe or the black bear of America; but his greater
ferocity, so often and fatally experienced by travellers, drew the attention of naturalists
upon him, when it was discovered that he was altogether distinct from either of the two.  His
name is usually coupled with that of the Rocky Mountains of America--for it is chiefly in the
defiles and valleys of this stupendous chain that he makes his home.  He wanders, however,
far eastward over the prairies, and also to the Californian Mountains on the west; and in a
latitudinal direction from the borders of Texas on the south, northward as far, it is supposed,
as the shores of the Arctic Sea.  At all events, a bear somewhat like him, if not identically
the same, has been seen on the banks of the great Mackenzie River, near its mouth.  Perhaps
it may be the brown bear of the Barren Grounds, already noticed; and which last is, in many
respects--in size and colour especially--very similar to the grizzly.

The grizzly bear is certainly the most ferocious of his tribe--even exceeding, in this unamiable
quality, his white cousin of the icy north; and many a melancholy tale of trapper and Indian
hunter attests his dangerous prowess.  He is both carnivorous and frugivorous--will dig for
roots and eat fruits when within his reach; but not being a tree-climber, he has to content
himself with such berries as grow upon the humbler bushes.  Indeed, it is a fortunate circumstance
that the fierce animal is unable to ascend a tree.  Many a traveller and hunter have found
a neighbouring tree the readiest means of saving their lives, when pursued by this ferocious
assailant.  Another circumstance is also in favour of those pursued by the grizzly bear.  In
the region where he dwells, but few persons ever go afoot; and although the bear can overtake
a pedestrian, his speed is no match for that of the friendly horse.

It is almost hopeless to think of killing a grizzly bear by a single bullet.  There the deadly
rifle is no longer deadly--unless when the shot is given in a mortal part; and to take sure
aim from the saddle, with a horse dancing in affright, is a feat which even the most skilful
marksman cannot always accomplish.  As many as a dozen bullets have been fired into the body
of a grizzly bear, without killing him outright.

The strength of this animal equals his ferocity.  He pulls the huge buffalo, a thousand pounds
in weight, to the ground; and then drags its carcass to some cave or crevice among the rocks,
or to a hole which he has dug to receive it.  To this place he repairs from time to time, till
the exhausted store compels him to go in search of a new victim.  Many an incident can be related--and
on the best authority too--where man has been the victim of the grizzly bear; and the Indians
esteem the killing of one of these animals a feat equal to that of taking the scalp of a human
enemy.  One of the proudest ornaments of a savage chief is a necklace of bears' claws: only
to be worn by those who have themselves killed the animals from which they have been taken.

The Black, or American bear, is one of the best known of the family; and on account of his
clean smooth head, tapering muzzle, and rich black fur, he is also one of the best looking
of bears.  He is found throughout the whole of the United States territory--from the Canadas
to the Gulf of Mexico--and westward to the shores of the Pacific.  He is sometimes met with
in the same neighbourhood with the grizzly, but not often: since their haunts are essentially
unlike--the black bear being a denizen of the heavy-timbered forest, while the other frequents
the grassy hills or coppice-openings of the prairies and mountain valleys.

The black bear is a tree-climber; and ascends the loftiest trees in search of the honey of
the wild bees, or to make his lair in some cavernous hollow of the trunks.  His food is usually
fruits and roots, but he is also fond of young corn, and often commits serious depredations
on the maize plantation.  In the backwood settlements, where clearings are apart from each
other, the black bear is still occasionally met with; and the chase of this animal is one of
the most favourite pastimes of the backwoods' hunter, whether amateur or professional.  Generally
there is little peril in the pursuit--unless when the bear is wounded and enraged, and the
hunter chooses to risk himself at close quarters.

There are varieties in colour.  Some with white throats, and some of a cinnamon brown, have
been observed; but the colour of the species is usually jet black; and on this account the
skins are much prized for military and other purposes.

The Spectacled bear is a native of South America, and frequents the forests upon the declivities
of the Andes.  This was long supposed to be a variety of the black bear, but later observations
prove it to be a different species.  Its habits are very similar to the last, to which it is
also similar in shape.  In colour it differs essentially.  It is black, but with a buff snout,
and buff rings round the eyes, which give it that appearance whence it derives its trivial
name.  Its throat and breast are whitish.

There is at least one other species of black bear indigenous to South America, inhabiting the
tropical forests; but very little is known of it--further than that it is one of the smallest
of the tribe.

We now reach the Asiatic bears, properly so called; and we have only space to say a word about
each.

The Siberian bear is thought to be only a variety of the brown bear of Europe, differing slightly
in colour.  In the former there is a broad band, or collar, of white passing over the neck
and meeting upon the breast.  It is, as its name implies, an inhabitant of Siberia.

The Thibet bear is a dweller among the Himalayas--in Sylhet and Nepaul.  Its general colour
is black, with a white mark, shaped like the letter Y; so placed that the shank of the letter
is upon its breast, and the forks running up the front of its shoulders.  It is not carnivorous,
and, generally, its disposition is harmless and playful.  It is easily tamed.

The Sloth bear is another Indian species having this peculiar marking on the breast and shoulders.
This animal is one of the oddest of creatures.  Its short limbs and depressed head, with the
long shaggy hair surmounting its back like a bullock, give it the appearance of being deformed.
On this account it was the favourite of the Indian jugglers, who, depending on its ugliness
as a source of attraction, trained it to a variety of tricks.  It is therefore sometimes known
as the jugglers' bear (Ours jongleur).  It has also a peculiar prehensile power in its lips;
and this, with its general shaggy mien, led to the belief of its being a species of sloth--hence
its common name.

The Malayan bear is another black species, with a marking on the breast.  This mark is of a
semi-lunar shape, and whitish; but the colour of the muzzle is buff-yellow.  This is a very
handsome species, subsisting on vegetable diet; and very injurious to the plantations of young
cocoa trees, of the shoots of which it is very fond.  It is also a honey eater; and roams about
in quest of the hives of the indigenous bees.  It is a native of Malacca, Sumatra, and others
of the East Indian islands.

The Isabella bear is so called from its colour--being of that fulvous white known as Isabella
colour.  It is another of the species belonging to the great range of the Himalayas, and is
found in the mountains of Nepaul.  Sometimes it is observed of nearly a white colour; which
led to the mistaken belief that Polar bears existed in the Himalayas.

The Syrian bear is a species found in the mountainous parts of Asia Minor.  It is of a fulvous-brown
colour, sometimes approaching to yellowish white.  It is partly carnivorous, but feeds also
on fruits; and is most remarkable as being the species first mentioned in books-- that is,
it is the bear of the Bible.

The Bornean bear is the last to be mentioned, though it is certainly one of the most beautiful,
if not the most beautiful, of the genus. This beauty arises from its peculiar markings, especially
from the large patch of rich orange colour upon the breast.  It is a native of the great Island
of Borneo, and little is known of its habits; but it is supposed to resemble the Malayan bear
in these, as it does in many other respects.

In Africa there are no bears.

CHAPTER FOUR.

BADGERS.

The Badger is a silent, solitary, carnivorous creature, having his representative, in some
form or other, in almost every part of the world; though nowhere either numerous in species
or plentiful in individuals.  In Europe he appears in two forms, the Glutton and common Badger;
in North America in three, viz., Wolverene, American, and Mexican Badgers; and, indeed, we
might say a fourth belongs to that continent, for the Racoon is as near being a badger, both
in appearance and habits, as he is to being anything else.  For convenience, therefore, let
us class him in this group: he will certainly be more at home in it than among the bears--where
most of the naturalists have placed him.

In South America we find another form of badger in the Coati mondi, of which there are several
varieties; and there, too, the racoon appears of a species distinct from those of the north.
Some writers class the coati with the civets, but the creature has far more of the habits and
appearance of a badger than of a civet cat; and therefore, whatever the anatomists may say,
we shall consider the coati a badger.

But a truer form of the badger than either of the above, exists in South America--extending
over nearly the whole of that continent.  This is the Grison, which, in appearance and habits,
somewhat resembles the wolverene.  It also is found in two or three varieties--according to
the part of the country it inhabits.  The Taira is another South American species of badger-like
animal, though usually referred to the weasels.

In Africa, the badger appears in the Ratel, or honey badger, common from Senegal to the Cape.
In Asia, in its northern zone, we have the European badger and Glutton; and in the south, the
Indian badger; while in the Himalaya chain dwells another animal, closely allied to the badgers,
called the Wha or Panda.  In Java, we find still another species, the Nientek; and in the other
large Asiatic islands there are several kinds of animals that approach very near to badgers
in their forms and habits, but which are usually classed either with the weasels or civets.

We shall now give some details respecting the different animals of this family; among which
the Glutton, in point of size, as well as for other reasons, deserves precedence.

The Glutton is the Rosomak of the Russians, in whose country he is chiefly found--along high
northern latitudes, both in Europe and Asia. He is supposed to be identical with the wolverene
of North America; and if this be so, his range extends all round the Arctic zone of the globe:
since the wolverene is found throughout the whole extent of the Hudson's Bay territory.  There
are good reasons to believe, however, that the two species differ considerably from each other--just
as the European badger does from his American cousins.  It was the writer Olaus Magnus who
gave such celebrity to this animal, by telling a very great "story" about the creature--which,
at a time when people were little studied in natural history, was readily believed.  Olaus's
report was, that whenever the glutton killed an animal, he was in the habit of feeding on the
carcass till his belly became swelled out and tight as a drum; that then he would pass between
two trees growing close together--to press the swelling inwards and ease himself--after which
he would return to the carcass, again fill himself, and then back again to the trees, and so
on, till he had eaten every morsel of the dead animal, whatever might have been its size! 
All this, of course, was mere fable; but it is not without some foundation in fact: for the
Rosomak is, in reality, one of the greatest gluttons among carnivorous animals.  So, too, is
his cousin, the wolverene of America; as the fur trappers have had sad reasons to know--whenever
the creature has come upon a store of their provisions.  The name of Glutton, therefore, though
based upon Olaus Magnus's exaggeration, is not so inappropriate.

The glutton and wolverene are, in fact, very like the common badger in their habits; except
that being much larger and stronger animals, they prey upon larger game.  The reindeer, and
other large quadrupeds, are often the victims of both; and it is even said that they can overcome
the great elk; but this is not confirmed by the observations of any trustworthy traveller.
The young of the elk, or a disabled old one, may occasionally succumb to them, but not an elk
in full vigour, nor yet a reindeer, except when they can surprise the latter asleep.  Their
game is usually the smaller quadrupeds; and in the fur countries no animal is a greater pest
to the trapper than the wolverene or glutton.  A single individual will in one night visit
a whole line of traps, and rob them of the captured animals--whether they be polar hares, white
or blue foxes, martens, or ermine weasels.

It is this creature that is usually represented lying in wait upon the limb of a tree, and
springing upon deer as they pass underneath: but this story of its habits wants confirmation.

The fur of the wolverene is one of the staple articles of trade of the Hudson's Bay Company;
though it is more prized among the Russians than with us--who esteem it in value as next to
the ermine.

The Common, or European badger, need not be here described, since it is familiar to all.  The
same may be said of the two American badgers, and also that of India, all three of which are
very similar in habits and appearance to the common kind.

But the African badger, or Ratel, merits a word or two.  It is about the size of the true badger,
and ordinarily lives on small game, as badgers do; but, in addition to this, it is fond of
varying its diet with a little honey.  This it procures from the nests of wild bees, common
throughout the whole of Africa.  The account given of the mode in which it finds these nests
would be incredible, were it not that we have the testimony of reverend missionaries to confirm
it.  It is as follows:--In Africa there is a bird--a species of cuckoo--known as the Indicator
bird, or honey guide.  This little creature hops from tree to tree, itself apparently in search
of the bees' nests.  While doing so, it utters a shrill cry; and these cries are repeated until
the honey hive is found.  The ratel lies in wait for this bird; and, on hearing the cry, makes
towards it, and keeps following its flights till the bees' nest is found.  Should this prove
to be in a tree and out of reach--for the ratel is not a climber--the animal vents his chagrin
by tearing at the trunk with his teeth, as if he had hopes of felling the tree.  The scratches
thus made on the bark serve as a guide to certain other creatures, who are also fond of honey,
viz., the Kaffir hunters and Bushmen.

Should the bees' nest prove to be on the ground, or under it, the ratel soon unearths the treasure
with his strong claws, and takes possession of it, regardless of the stings of the bees, against
which his thick skin defends him.

The Orison inhabits the forests of South America, from Guiana to Paraguay.  It is quite as
ferocious as any of the tribe; but its smaller size hinders it from attacking large animals,
and its victims are birds, agoutis, and other small rodents--against all of which it wages
a war of extermination.  When surprised by the hunters and their dogs, it will battle furiously
till life is extinct: all the while emitting a strong disagreeable smell, after the manner
of the weasels and polecats.  The Racoon, which we have grouped with the badgers, is both a
North and South American animal; dwelling in dense forests, and making its lair in the hollow
of a tree.  This animal is a good tree-climber, and usually takes refuge among the higher branches
when pursued.  It is nocturnal in its habits, but in deep shady woods it may be seen prowling
about in the daylight, in search of birds and their eggs, small rodents, fish, or frogs, all
of which it eats indifferently.  There are several distinct species.

The Coati is exclusively South American.  This, unlike the racoon, sleeps at night, and prowls
during the day.  It is also an expert tree-climber, and has a peculiarity in this respect;
viz., it descends a tree head foremost, which no other animal of its order can do.  It is equally
as fierce and carnivorous as any of the badgers; and its prey, as with the racoon, consists
of birds, their eggs, and small quadrupeds.  It feeds also upon insects; and will turn over
the earth with its long proboscis-like snout.  When drinking it laps like the dog. In eating,
it uses its fore-paws to carry the food to its mouth, though not as squirrels and monkeys do. These works of art,
which his father had sold him seemed a symbol that he, too, from a quiet and thorough possession
of the desirable in the world partly excluded, some of the same should be deprived by his
own or foreign debt. He lost so far in this strange Views and sad that he himself sometimes seemed
like a ghost and even when things outside itself felt and touched, could hardly resist the
doubt; whether he actually lived and there was.

Only the vivid pain that took him sometimes that he found all that and re-found Sun and wantonly leave
yet so necessary, must only his tears gave him the feeling his life again. In vain he called himself
the happy state in which he himself but actually was, pre memory. "That's all for nothing,"
he exclaimed, "if one missing, the man is worth all the rest! "

The Abbe announced the arrival of the Marquis of society. "They are indeed, as it seems," he said to
Wilhelm, "with your boys decided to travel alone, you will learn how at least this man know
that you where to find him on the road, to all cases . May be useful for "The Marquis appeared,
it was not a man advanced in years, a from the well-designed, pleasing Lombard figures. He had
as a youth with the Uncle of the already much older, was in the army, then made the acquaintance
in shops; after they had traversed a large part of Italy together, and the art, that of the Marquis
again found there were, for the most part in his presence and in some fortunate circumstances,
that he is still well remembered, had been bought and bought.

The Italian has even a deeper feeling for the high dignity of art as other Nations, anyone who
drives anything at will, hot artists, masters and Professor and committed at least through
this book addiction, that it was not enough, just a bit by tradition to seize or exercise any skill to
gain, he admits, but that each about what he does, should also be able to think, to establish principles
and the causes why to do this or that, be yourself and others to make that clear.

The stranger was stirred so nice Besitztuemer without the owner recover, and pleased the spirit of
his friend from the excellent survivors speak and listen to. They went the various works and found
a great comfort to each other understandable can make. The Marquis and the Abbe was the chief speaker,
Natalie, again in the presence of her uncle put felt knew very well in their opinions and sentiments
to find; Wilhelm's had to translate into theatrical terms, if he does it wanted to understand. They
had trouble, Frederick jokes to keep in check. Jarno was rare . Present

When considering are that admirable art in modern times, so rare,
"said the marquis: "It can not be thinking about light and see what
the circumstances for the Artists have to do, and then with the greatest
genius in the most decided talent still infinite claims that he has
to make in himself, unspeakably hard work, the necessary for his training.

Now, if the circumstances do little for him when he noticed that the world is to be satisfied
very easily, and even just a light, pleasant, comfortable Certificate sought, it would be surprising,
if not comfort, and self-love with him the mediocre clung, and it would be strange if he does
not love for fashion commodity money should elect to exchange and praise as the right way, who more
or less a miserable martyrdom leads. Therefore offer the artists of our time just always to never
give up. You always want to irritate, to satisfy ever, everything is only hinted and you can not see
reason in detail. But it should also only for a time quiet stay in a gallery and see what works
for himself draws the crowd, which praised and which are neglected, then one has little desire
in the present and for the future of little hope. "

"Yes," replied the Abbe, "and then lovers and artists are alternately, and the lovers just looking for
a general, vague pleasure; the work of art is to him something like a Natural comfort, and
people believe the institutions enjoy a work of art, formed themselves from themselves as from the
tongue and palate, one judge over a work of art as about a food. They do not understand what
for it requires a different culture in order to real enjoyment of
art to raise.

The hardest thing I find the type of discharge, the man cause in itself do if he wants to make at
all, why we find so much unilateral cultures, each of which it pretends to be talking about
the whole thing. "

"What you're saying to me is not very clear," said Jarno, who just joined them.

"It is difficult," replied the Abbe, "to explain to the intended brevity of this. I say only this:
as soon as the man of varied activities, varied enjoyment To exercise
any right it must also be capable, diverse institutions as it is independent
of another form.

Who do anything and everything in all its humanity, or enjoy that
anyone who wants everything but be linked to such a type of candy
that is his Request by e-time with only an eternally unsatisfied desire.

How hard is it what so of course seems a good statue, an excellent painting in and of itself to
inspect the singing to hear about the singing's sake, to admire the actor in the actor, at one
to enjoy building for its own sake of harmony and its duration. Now we see but most people decided
works of art treated almost as if it is a soft Tone would be. According to their tastes, opinions
and crickets, the marble is formed immediately remodel again, that's for brick building expand
or contract, a painting to teach, improve a play, and everything will be all. Actually, though,
because the Most people are even informally, because they give themselves and their very nature
do not form can, they work to take the objects their shape, so that's all loose and looser material
will, to which they belong. They reduce everything to the last known Effect, everything is relative,
and so will all relative, except the nonsense and absurdity, for the quite absolutely ruled.
"

"I understand you," said Jarno, "or rather, I see well enough, as what you say with the principles
related to which you hold so; I can but with the poor Devils of people take impossible for sure.
I know enough of their course, which with the greatest works of art and nature at once their
most miserable Requirements Remember to take their conscience and their morals to the opera, love
and hatred against a Colonnade and not take the best and biggest thing will be brought to them from the
outside may have to reduce their only way of picturing as possible
to get it with their miserable Being only somewhat able to connect.

"

Book VIII, 8 Chapter

Chapter Eight

In the evening the Abbe invited you to the funeral of Mignon. The company went into the room the past
and found the same to the strangest and ausgeschmueckt evident.

With sky-blue carpets, the walls almost from top to bottom, dressed
so that only base Fries and forth seemed.

On the four candelabra at the corners burned large wax torches, and
less so in proportion to the four surrounding the middle of the sarcophagus.

In addition to this There were four boys, dressed in sky blue with silver, and seemed a figure
on the Sarcophagus rested zuzuwehn with wide range of ostrich feathers air. The Company sat
down, and two invisible choirs began singing with lovely to ask: "Who brings us to satisfy their
society? "The four children in a sweet voice replied." A Tired playmates, we bring you, let him
among you rest until the heavenly jubilation Siblings waking him again some day. "

Choir

First of the youth in our circle, welcome! accepted with sadness! Follow you no Boy, no girl to!
Only the age close to ready and left the silent hall, and rest in the company of serious love,
dear child!

Boys

Oh! how unwilling we brought him here! Oh! and he should stay here!

Let us stay, let us cry, cry on his coffin!

Choir

Behold the mighty wings it on! see the light, clean clothes!
flashes as the gold Binding of the head! see the beautiful, the worthy
peace!

Boys

Oh! the wings do not raise, in light flutters games no longer the
garment, as we with roses crowns her head, she looked sweet and friendly
to us.

Choir

Look through the eyes of the Spirit ascend! In you live the creative power that the most beautiful,
the Maximum up, carries over the stars life!

Boys

But alas!

We miss her here, she walks in the gardens, gather in the meadow flowers no more. Let us weep,
we will leave here! let us weep and be with her!

Choir

Children! returns, back to life! Your tears dry the fresh air, winding around the Water plays.
Escapes the night! Day and joy and life is the fate of the living.

Boys

On, we come back to life. Enter the day we work and pleasure, until the evening we rest brings
and the nocturnal sleep refreshed us.

Choir

Children! Hasten ascended to life! In the beauty of pure garments meet 'you love with heavenly
views and the crown of immortality!

The boys were already far away, the abbe rose from his chair and stood behind the coffin. "It
is the regulation," he said, "the man who has prepared this quiet apartment that each new arrival
will be greeted with celebration. According to him, the builder of this House, the builder of
this site, we first moved here a young stranger, and so even this small room can accommodate two
very different victims of strict, arbitrary and relentless Todesgoettin. According to certain laws, we
enter into life, the days are counted, which makes us the sight of
the light permits, but for the life is not Law.

The weakest thread of life runs into unexpected length, and the strongest cuts the shear force of Fate,
which seems to fall into contradictions. From the Child that we buried here, we know little
to say. Still is unknown to us, where it came, his parents are not known, and the number of years
of life, we guess.

His deep, closed heart made us read his innermost affairs hardly anything was clear to him, nothing
appeared as the love for the man who is in the hands of a Barbarians saved. This gentle slope,
this lively gratitude, the flame seemed to be the erosion of the oil of their lifetime, the skill
of the physician was the beautiful Life will not, careful friendship was not able to eke it. But if
the art of the departing spirit could not bind to, so it has all its resources applied to get the
body and to deprive him of the transience. A balmy Mass has passed through all the veins and
colors now on the site of the blood remaining so early Cheeks. Come closer, my friends, and see the
wonders of art and care! "

He lifted up the veil, and the child was asleep in his clothes as angels in the most pleasant Position.
All came out and admired this appearance of life.

Wilhelm was only Sitting in his chair, he could not take, and what he felt he could not think,
and every idea seemed to want to destroy his feelings.

The speech was spoken French to the Marquis's sake. This occurred with the other induced and studied
the figure with attention. The abbe continued: "With a holy Confidence was this good, resistant
people so closed to his heart God turned. The humility, even a tendency to degrade in appearance, seemed
innate. With enthusiasm, it was attached to the Catholic religion in which it was born and brought
up.

Often voiced they satisfy the desire to rest in consecrated ground, and we have, according to the
customs of the Church, this marble container and a few consecrated earth, out of sight in her
pillow is. With what fervor they kissed in her last moments, the image of the Crucified the tender
on their arms with many hundreds of points shown is very delicate,
"he grazed at the same time, saying that to her right arm, and a crucifix
in various Letters and signs accompanied saw bluish white on the skin.

The marquis looked at this quite new phenomenon in the vicinity. "O God!" he exclaimed, when
he straightened up and raised his hands to heaven, "Poor child! accident, would not! I find you
here again!

What a painful joy, up to which we have long surrender done had this good, dear body, which we long
believed in the lake a predatory fish, recover here, is dead, but did not receive! I live at
your funeral, so wonderful by their appearance and still more wonderful by the good people up
to your Ruhestaette . Accompany And if I can talk, "he said in a broken voice," I'm going to
Thank you. "

The tears prevented him from producing something more.

By the pressure of a spring flush Abbe the body into the depths of
the marble.

Four Juengling dressed like that boy came out from behind the curtains lifted the heavy, beautiful
ornate lid on the coffin and began at once to her singing.

The young men

Well guarded now is the treasure, the beautiful structure created by past! here lies in the
Marble without it consumes, it lives in your heart is one that carries it. Falls below, to
life Back! Take the holy earnest addition, because of the seriousness
of the sacred, makes only the Live for eternity.

The choir was hidden in the last words with one, but no one heard of the company the fortifying
words, each was too busy with the wonderful discoveries and his own Sensations busy. The Abbe
and Natalie led the Marchese, Wilhelm and Therese Lothario out, and only when the song they
faded completely, fell the pain Considerations, the thoughts that curiosity with full force again,
and wished fervently they are in that element back again.

Book VIII, 9 Chapter - 1

Chapter Nine

The Marquis avoided to talk about the matter, but had a long and secret talks with the Abbe. He
asked if the company was assembled, often music, where one saw like for it because everyone was
happy to be relieved of the conversation. So lived to some Time away, as it was remarked that he Institute
for departure do. One day he said to Wilhelm: "I ask not to disturb the remains of the good child,
are left behind in the place where it has loved and suffered, but his friends told me to promise me
in his Native country to visit in the place where the poor creature
was born and bred them have to see the columns and statues, of which
he is still a dark idea uebriggeblieben.

I will lead you into the bays where they zusammenlas so fond of the stones. They are to not
withdraw my dear young man, the gratitude of a family that gives you so much guilty. Tomorrow
I travel away. I trusted the Abbe the whole story, he is they wiedererzaehlen you, and he could
forgive me if my pain stopped me, and He will present the events as a third party with more
context. Do you want me yet, as the Abbe suggested to follow on my journey through Germany,
you are welcome. Let your child not be returned, at every little inconvenience that he makes
us do we remember your pension for my poor niece again. "

Yet that evening was one surprised by the arrival of the countess. Wilhelm trembled in all
Limbs, as she entered, and, although prepared, stayed at her sister, to it soon enough a chair.
How strange it was just like a suit and changed their Shape! Wilhelm could scarcely regard
to them, they welcomed him with kindness, and some general words could not hide their sentiments
and feelings. The Marquis had gone to bed in good time, and the company had no desire to separate
himself; the Abbe produced a manuscript. "I have," he said, "once the strange story as it
was entrusted to me, put on paper. Where to save the least pen and ink is, that's when you record
individual circumstances strange occurrences. "You taught the countess, of which the terms, and
the Abbe read:
"My father," said the Marchese, "I have as much world I have also
seen, always for one of the most wonderful people hold. His character
was noble and just, his ideas far and one may say big, he was strict
with himself, in all his plans were found an incorruptible episode,
in all his actions a continuous Schrittmaessigkeit. As good deal,
therefore, from one side to let him and negotiate a business, any
more than he could find just the sake of these properties are in the
world, as he by the State, its neighbors, children and servants all
called for the observation of the laws he had imposed on itself. Ontological
claims were exaggerated by his Severity, and he could never get to
enjoy, because nothing was on the way in which he be's thought. I
have it in the moment when he built a palace, a garden docked, a large
new estate in the most beautiful location, acquired internally with
the most serious Anger saw convinced that fate had condemned him to
be celibate and to endure. In his Outside, he observed the greatest
dignity, and when he joked that he was only the superiority of his
mind, it was unacceptable to him to be blamed, and I have seen him
only once in my life seen quite out of all versions since he heard
that one spoke of one of its stations as something ridiculous. In
the same spirit had he planned his children and his fortune. My oldest
brother was a man brought up the future, large cargoes had hoped,
I should take holy orders and the youngest soldier. I was lively,
ardent, active, fast, physical at all sent exercises.

With regard to the true wild dogs--which are not regarded as wolves--we find them existing
in various parts of the world.  They usually live in communities, and have the habit of hounds--that
is, they hunt in packs. Whether they were originally dogs in a domesticated state, and have
since seceded from the society of man, is a question which naturalists are unable to agree upon.

In India there are two or three kinds of wild dogs living thus.  One in the Deccan--called
Kolsun by the Mahratta people--is a reddish-coloured animal, nearly as large as the common
European wolf.  It dwells in the forests, far remote from the villages--and of course lives
by preying upon other animals--just as wolves and foxes do.  Again, in the forests of the Himalaya
mountains there is another species of wild dog, different from that of the Deccan.  It is usually
known as the wild dog of Nepaul, from its being found in many parts of that kingdom.  A large
community of these animals is often met with in the mountain forests-- living in caves, or
at the bottoms of cliffs, where there are deep crevices among the boulders of loose rocks,
that afford them a secure asylum when pursued by their enemies.  In these places the dogs sleep,
and bring forth their young; and the puppies are taught to be exceedingly wary, and not stray
far from their dens during the absence of the mothers.  Indeed, so cunning do they become when
only a few days old, that it is difficult to capture one of them outside its impenetrable lodging-place.

During many hours the old ones are abroad, in pursuit of the animals upon whose flesh they
subsist; and, as already stated, these dogs follow their game not singly, but in bands or packs.
In this way, instinct teaches them that they will have a better chance of success; since they
are more able to head the pursued animal, turn it in different directions, and at length run
it to the ground.  A curious fact is related of the cunning of these wild dogs.  It is stated
that when in pursuit of the larger animals--such as stags and large antelopes that inhabit
the same district--instead of running them down at once, the dogs manoeuvre so as to guide
the game to their breeding place, before giving the final coup to the chase!  The object of
this is to bring the carcass within reach of their young; which, were it killed at a great
distance off, would be obviously impossible.  Such a habit as this would prove them possessed
of something more than instinct; but for all that, it may be true.  A fact seems to confirm
it: the fact that a large quantity of bones is always observed in the immediate neighbourhood
of the breeding places--some of these being of such a size as to preclude the belief that they
could have been carried thither by the dogs themselves.

In Ramghur there is a wild dog called Quao, or Quaw, which lives in communities, just as those
of Nepaul; and still another kind inhabits the forests of the Island of Sumatra.

None of these kinds are to be confounded with the half-wild dogs of India, called pariah dogs;
since the latter, although not owned by individuals, dwell in the villages, and of course associate
with man. Besides, the pariahs are of no particular breed--there being several sorts of pariah
dogs.  They are merely outcast curs, without owners, that pick up a living as they best can.

Passing from India to the tropical countries of America, we find another sort of wild dog in
the forests of Guiana, known as the Koupara, or Crab-dog.  It is not certain whether these
dogs are indigenous to Guiana, or the progeny of some domestic variety introduced by the colonists.
They dwell in small troops or families, of six or seven individuals each, and their food is
furnished by the pacas, agoutis, and other small rodent animals of tropical America.  They
also find sustenance in several kinds of crabs, which they adroitly capture upon the banks
of the rivers; and it is from their habit of feeding upon these they have derived the name
of crab-dogs.  They are easily tamed; and when crossed with other breeds, a variety is produced
which is esteemed by the natives as the very best kind for the hunting of the agoutis, cavies,
and capibaras.

The wild dogs of the Cape country, called Wilde Hunden (wild hounds) by the Dutch, are usually
regarded as near akin to the hyenas.  But they are more like real wild hounds than hyenas;
and their colour--which is a mixture of black, white, and tan--almost points to them as the
progenitors of that variety of dog known as the hound.  Their habits, too, would seem to confirm
this hypothesis: for it is well-known that these animals pursue their prey just after the manner
of a pack of real hounds--doubling upon it, and using every artifice to run it down.  The numerous
species of ruminant animals--the antelope in particular--are the especial objects of their
pursuit, and upon these they subsist. Like the Indian wild dogs, they live in communities--using
the burrows of the wild hog and ant-eater, as also the hollow ant-hills, for their lairs and
breeding places.  Travellers passing across the plains of South Africa have often witnessed
the splendid spectacle of a pack of these beautiful wild hounds in pursuit of a large antelope,
and almost fancied themselves looking at a stag hunt, with a kennel of real hounds going at
full view!

The true wild dog of all is that creature so well-known and celebrated in all our tales of
childhood--the Wolf.

To describe the wolf, or even to give an account of his habits, would be superfluous.  Almost
every one is acquainted with the gaunt form, the shaggy hide, and tierce aspect of this formidable
creature; and every one has heard of his fierce and savage disposition: for who is ignorant
of the story of "Little Red Riding Hood?"

The presence of this much-disliked animal is almost universal: by which I mean, that in some
form or other he is represented in almost every corner of the globe.  You may say there are
no wolves in Africa; but this is not true: for the hyenas are nothing more nor less than wolves,
and wolves of the very ugliest kind.

Fortunately wolves are no longer found in Britain, though they were once plentiful enough in
these islands; but all over the continent of Europe there are still numerous wolves in the
forests and mountains.

The Common Wolf, that is, the wolf of Europe, is the type of the family; but this type offers
many varieties--according to the different localities in which it is found.  I shall here notice
these varieties.

French wolves are generally browner and smaller than those of Germany; and the wolves of Russia,
Sweden, and Norway are still stronger animals, and of a more sinister appearance.  These differ
very much in colour, which in winter is almost white.  Again, the Alpine wolves are smaller
than the French, and of a brownish-grey colour; while those of Italy and Turkey have a yellowish
tinge.  Black wolves are not uncommon, especially in the Pyrenees of Spain; but whether these,
as well as the others, are all mere varieties of the common wolf, or whether there are two
or three distinct species of European wolf, are questions to be left to the disputation of
systematic naturalists.

Over all the continent of America, from the Arctic shores in the north to Tierra del Fuego
in the south, wolves are found; and here again there are varieties in size, colour, and even
habits, that may fairly entitle the different kinds to rank as separate species.  Most certainly
there are distinct species, for that known as the Prairie Wolf, and also the Coyote of Mexico,
are two kinds that more resemble jackals than real wolves.

Besides, other wolves of the American continent, as the Brown Wolf of Mexico, the great Dusky
Wolf of the Upper Missouri, the Aguara Dog of South America, the Wild Dog of the Falkland Islands,
the Fox Wolves of Patagonia and Terra del Fuego, the Guazu of Paraguay and Chili, and the North
American Common Wolf--are all animals of such different appearance and habits, that it is absurd
to term them varieties of the same species.  In Asia we have just the same series of varieties--that
is, in every part of the great continent is found some representative of the tribe, which in
reality is no variety, but an original and indigenous animal of the wolf kind--such as the
Sandgah, or Indian wolf of the Himalayas; the Beriah, another Indian wolf; and the Derboom,
a black species that inhabits the mountains of Arabia and Syria.

In Africa the wolf is represented by the hyenas, of which there are at least four species--one
of them, the common hyena, belonging to the northern half of the African continent, and extending
its range into several countries of Asia.  At the Cape, and northward into Central Africa,
three large species of hyena, and one small one (the Aard wolf), represent the lupine family.
The Jackal, too--of which there are several distinct kinds in Asia and Africa--is only a wolf
of diminutive size and gregarious habit.

This creature is fairly represented in America by the Coyote of Mexico, and the Barking Wolf
of the prairies; and in Asia, upon the steppes of Tartary, by the Corsac.

Even in Australia, where new mammalia have turned up in such odd and fantastic forms, the wolf
has his congener in that curious creature known as the Tasmanian wolf.

With regard to foxes, they, like the wolves, are distributed almost universally over the globe;
and exhibit a like variety of forms and colours, according to the different localities which
they inhabit. Their name is legion.

As the smallest representatives of the wild dogs, we find in Africa the curious little creatures
known as the Fennecs.  Of these there are also varieties; for, although very much alike in
habits, the Fennecs of Abyssinia and those of the Cape are evidently distinct species.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

CATS.

The Lion is the king of cats; though there are some who think that the Tiger has a better claim
to the throne.  In point of size and strength, there is not much difference between these two
animals.  The lion appears larger, on account of his shaggy mane; but specimens of the tiger
have been taken whose measurement was equal to that of the largest lion.  Otherwise, the tiger
is decidedly superior in courage, in address, and in beauty; in fact, the royal tiger is one
of the most beautiful of animals; while the lion, notwithstanding the great fame he enjoys,
is among the very ugliest of brutes.

These two powerful creatures often meet in the jungles of India, and try their strength in
single combat.  It is not decided which is superior in prowess, since victory is sometimes
on one side and sometimes on the other.  No doubt this depends on the individuals who may engage,
for lions are not all alike, nor tigers neither.  Both differ in strength and courage, just
as men do; and this difference is caused by a variety of circumstances--such as age, size,
season of the year, nature of the country and climate, and many like contingencies.

Remember that the lion is found both in Asia and Africa, and nowhere else.  He inhabits the
whole of Africa, from the Cape to the shores of the Mediterranean, and there are three well-marked
varieties on that continent.  In Asia he is only found in its southern part--that is, in the
tropical and sub-tropical regions; and there are also two or three varieties of the Asiatic lion.

With regard to the tiger, he is altogether an Asiatic.  There are no tigers in Europe, Africa,
and America--of course we mean in their wild state; and the stories of tiger-hunts in Africa
and America, frequently to be met with in books and newspapers, are the narratives of mere
ignorant travellers, who confound the royal tiger with several species of spotted cats--of
which we shall presently speak.  We may add that the tiger, although exclusively Asiatic, is
not exclusively tropical in his haunts.  Tigers are more abundant in the hot jungles of India
and some of the larger islands of the Indian Ocean than elsewhere; but they have also been
observed far to the north of the Himalayan chain on the great steppes that extend almost to
the confines of Siberia.

To continue the monarchical analogy; there are four cats that may be called the princes of
the family.  These are the Jaguar, the Leopard, the Panther, and the Hunting-leopard or Cheetah.
The first of these is exclusively American; the other three, African and Asiatic.  They are
all four what are termed spotted cats; that is, having black markings on a buff or yellowish
ground.  I need not add that they are all beautiful creatures.  A superficial observer would
easily mistake the one for the other; and in common phrase, they are indifferently termed leopards,
panthers, and even tigers; but the naturalist, and even the furrier knows that they are four
distinct species.

I shall endeavour to point out as briefly as possible some marks that will enable you to distinguish
them.  In the spots we find a tolerably good criterion of the species.  Those upon the body
of the jaguar are not spots, but rather what may be termed rosettes.  So, too, the black markings
of the leopard and panther are rosettes; that is, irregular black rings enclosing an open space
of the yellow ground.  On the contrary, the spots upon the hunting-leopard are real spots,
of a uniform black; and, consequently, this animal is easily distinguished from the other three.
He differs from them also in shape.  He is longer in the legs, stands more upright upon them,
and can run more swiftly than any of the cat tribe.  In fact, he has a tendency towards the
nature and habits of the dog, and might be appropriately termed the cat-dog, or the dog-cat,
whichever you please.  It is on account of his canine qualities that he is sometimes trained
to the chase: hence his specific name of the hunting-leopard.  He inhabits both Asia and Africa.

But how are the jaguar, leopard, and panther to be distinguished from one another?  The jaguar
easily enough from the other two.  His rosettes have a black point in the centre, which is
wanting in the rings of the panther and leopard.  Besides, the jaguar is a larger and more
powerful animal.  Humboldt and others have observed specimens of the jaguar nearly equal in
dimensions to those of the royal tiger himself; and his feats of fierce prowess, in the forests
of Spanish America, are scarce eclipsed by those of his congener in the jungles of India. 
Human beings are frequently his victims, and settlements have been abandoned on account of
the dangerous proximity of the jaguars.  His range in America is pretty nearly co-terminal
with the Spanish territories--including, of course, Brazil and Guiana, and excluding the country
of Patagonia, where a smaller species takes his place.  In all these countries he is misnamed
tiger (tigre)--hence the anomalous stories to which we have alluded.  We may add that there
is a black jaguar in tropical America, just as there is a black panther in Asia.  In neither
case is it a different species: only a variety as regards colour.  In all other respects the
black and yellow kinds are alike.  Even on the black ones the spots are observable in a certain
light, being of a deeper hue than the general ground colour of the skin. "Miss something of his old sincerity I do, "he added."
She will also show up again, if we only by the first Surprise to have recovered, "said Wilhelm.

There
was much that Werner would have an equally favorable impression made
on Wilhelm.

The good man seemed to be more back-vorwaertsgegangen as. He was much thinner than formerly,
his pointed face seemed fine, his nose to its length, his forehead and his Apex were denuded
of hair, his voice light, violently and screaming, and his Dented Chest, his crumbling shoulders,
his colorless cheeks left no room for doubt, that a hard-working hypochondriac was present.

William was modest enough to be explained via this great alteration
very moderately, because the others were let his friendly joy may
be full term.

"Really!" he exclaimed, "if you used your time badly and, I suspect, nothing gained have, you're
a little person, however, became that can make his fortune and must; and squandering squandering
not only the well again, you shall me with this figure, a 'll buy rich and beautiful heiress
you ."--" But, "Wilhelm said, smiling," your Character does not deny! No sooner do you find your
friend again after a long time, look so you know him already as a commodity, as an object of your
speculation, with the somewhat can win. "

Jarno and the abbe seemed surprised about this recognition and no means left both Friends are
over at will spread the past and present.

Werner was around his friend, turned it back and forth, so that he was almost embarrassed.
"No! no, "he exclaimed," So what has happened to me yet, and yet I am well aware that I I
do not betriege. Your eyes are deep, your forehead is wider, and your nose is fine your lips
have become more loving. Just look at how he stands! how it all fits and is related! As the lazy
but prosper! I, poor devil on the other hand "- he looked at himself in the mirror -" if I pretty
much this time since no money would have won, but absolutely nothing would be on me. "

Werner had not received William's last letter, and their action was
the strange house, with Lothario which the cargoes to buy community
had the intent.

This business that Werner here, and he had no idea Wilhelm on his way to find. The Magistrate
arrived, the papers were submitted and Werner took the suggestions of cheap. "If you are with
this young man, as it seems to mean well," he said, "you make itself, but that our part is
not shortened, it should depend on my friends, whether he will accept the material and apply
a portion of its assets in it. "Jarno and the Abbe assured that it is not needed this reminder.
We ran a little generally negotiated, as Werner, after a lot L'hombre longed for what is also
equal to the Abbe and Jarno to sit down and he was the way it is used, he could of the evening
without a game not live.

When the two friends after dinner, alone, were interviewed and talked about it very vividly about
anything they wished to communicate.

Wilhelm praised his position and the luck its admission under such excellent people. Werner, however
shook his head and said: "One would believe anything except what you see with your eyes! More
than one obliging Friend has assured me that you live with a dissolute young nobleman, he led
Actresses half, by bringing him his money and mayest be to blame, that he and his all relatives
was tense. "-" I would for my sake and good for man vex's sake, that we be misunderstood, "said
Wilhelm," if I do not mean theatrical career with any gossip evils would have reconciled. How should
people judge our actions as they deem just and individually torn off, of which the see less, because
good and bad things happen in secret and indifferent Release is usually only on the day. Bring
to them but actors and actresses on heightened boards, lights on all sides to light, the whole
work is completed in a few hours, and yet rarely know anyone actually know what to make of it.
"

Now it went to a questions on the family, according to childhood friends and home town. Werner with great
haste told all that had changed and what still existed and happened.

"The women in the home," he said, "Are contented and happy, never lacking in money. Half of the
time to bring them to clean themselves, and the other half, cleaned to be seen. Haushaelterisch
they are as much as cheap. My children can be to clever boys. I see them sitting in a spirit
already and write and count, run, loitering and acting, each one is set up as soon as possible
a peculiar trade be, and what concerns our fortune, because you should see your content. If
we use the Goods are in order, you have the same home with you because it looks like as if you interfere
with some reason in the human enterprises could. Your new Friends is to be praised because
they have brought you to the right path. I am a foolish devil and realize how I love you because
I do not see enough of you be that you look so good and so good. That's still a different shape
than the Portrait, once you send the test to his sister and what the house was big hassle.
Mother and daughter found the young Lord of love with open neck, semi-free breast, large Krause,
herumhaengendem hair, round hat, short waistcoat and baggy long Pants, however, I argued that
the costume was only two inches from the clown. Now you look like a human but, just missing
the braid, into which I incorporate your hair Please, otherwise it holds up for the move yet
again as Jews and calls for customs and escort from you. "

Felix was, however, came in the room, and had, as they paid no attention to him again Sofa
and had fallen asleep. "What is it for a worm?" asked Werner. Wilhelm had to say at the moment
not the courage, the truth, nor the inclination, an always ambiguous story to tell about a man who
was by nature anything but religious.

The whole party now proceeded to the goods in order to inspect and trade . To conclude William Felix had
his not from the side and was happy for the child sake rather vividly
of possession, the awaited one.

The lustful of the child after the Cherries and berries, which would soon be ripe, reminded
him of the time of his youth and to give to the multiple duty of the father, prepare to enjoy
his family, to obtain and. Interest with which he regarded the nurseries and the buildings! As
vividly he thought to restore the neglected and to renew his expired! He saw the world is
not like a migratory bird, not a building for a quick assembled arbor, which dried up before you
leave them. All that he intended to create, should grow toward the boy, and all that he produced,
was a period of some Sexes. In this sense, his apprenticeship was finished, and with the feeling
of Father, he had acquired all the virtues of a citizen. He felt, and his joy nothing could
equal. "Oh, the unnecessarily strict morals!" he exclaimed, "because the nature Us their lovely way
to all forms of what we should be. O the strange requirements of bourgeois society, which confused
and misled us first and then more than Nature itself demands of us! Woe to any kind of education
that the most effective means of true Education and destroyed us to the end points, rather than
bless us on the way myself! "

So many he had seen in his life, he seemed human to nature only through the observation of
the child are clear. The theater seemed to him as the World, occurred only as a set of distributed
cubes, each individually on its Surface sometimes more, sometimes
less means and together counts most, a total .

Make Here he was in the child could say, before a single die, multiple on its Sides of the
value and the worthlessness of human nature was buried so clearly.

The desire of the child to distinguish grew with every day. Since it had once experienced, that
things have names, it also wanted to hear the names of everything, and it did not believe otherwise,
his father would have to know everything, he is tormented with questions
and often gave him an opportunity to to inquire about subjects to
which he had devoted little attention otherwise.

Also To find the innate instinct, the origin and the end of things, was formerly with the boy. When
he asked where the wind come from and where the flame go, was the father its own restriction
certainly alive, and he wished to know how far the dare man with his thoughts and what he is
allowed to hope for himself and others accountable ever to give. The severity of the child
if there is any living being wronged saw the father rejoiced greatly as the sign of an excellent
mind. The child struck violently after Kuechenmaedchen, which had cut off some pigeons. This
beautiful concept for indeed was soon destroyed when he found the boy, who without mercy Totschlug
frogs and butterflies tore. It reminded him of the train to so many people that seem most just
when they are without passion and the actions of others . Watch

This pleasant feeling that the boy such a beautiful and true influence on his life I, was a moment
disturbed when William noticed in recently that really the boy him any more than he educate
the boy. He did nothing wrong in the child, he was not able to give him a direction that did not take
it themselves, and even the bad habits, to Aurelie which had worked so much, were it seemed,
after the death of this friend all again came into their former positions.

Nor did the child behind the door never to yet he did not want Abesses his plate, and his delight
was never greater than when we looked after him that he take a bite directly from the bowl, let
stand the full glass and could drink from the bottle. He was also very excellent, if it focuses
on a Book in the corner and sat very seriously said, "I must study the scholarly stuff," although
he could distinguish the letters for a long time nor wanted.

Thoughtful Wilhelm now how little he had been doing for the child, as little able to do it was,
so was a restlessness in him that was able to outweigh all his good fortune. "If We men, then, "he said
to himself," born so selfish that it would be impossible for a being outside of us can take
care of? I am with the boys not just by the way, where I was with AA? I pulled on the dear
child, his presence delighted me, while I It cruelly neglected.

What I did to his education, after which it sought so much? Nothing! I left it to itself and all
contingencies, which it in an uneducated Society could only be suspended, and then for this
boy, who you so strangely , Before he was you could be worth up has been called for your heart,
even the ever least to do for him? It is not time for you at your own annual and annual other
wasting, pull yourself together and think what you're good for you and the creatures do have
that natural inclination and tied so tightly to you. "

Actually, this was only an introduction Selbstgespraech to confess that he had thought, provided,
searched and had chosen, he could no longer hesitate to even it to confess. After repeated
often in vain grief over the loss of Mariana, he felt only too clearly that he must seek a mother
for the boy and that he is no safer than would be found in Theresa. He knew this woman very
admirable. Such Wife and helpmate seemed the only one that could
cause the trust to himself and his family.

Your noble inclination to Lothario gave him no concern. They were by a strange Fate separated
forever, Therese stayed for free with a marriage and had indeed Indifference, but when talking
about something that is obvious.

After he was long gone with himself, he decided to tell her of himself, so much He just knew.
You should get to know him, as he knew, and he now began his own Think through history, they seemed
so empty and at events throughout each confession so little of his claim that he was more than
once to stand by the intent on the point. Finally he decided to request the role of his apprentice
years in the tower of Jarno; He said: "It is just at the right time,"
and William got it.

It's a horrible feeling when a noble man with consciousness to the point is where he should himself
be solved. All transitions are crises, and is a crisis not disease? As you step reluctantly after
an illness before the mirror! The improvement you feel, and you see the effect of past evils.
William was however, prepared enough, the circumstances had already
spoken to him vividly, his friends it just had not spared, and though
he unrolled the parchment with some haste, he was always quiet, the
more he read.

He found the complicated history of his Life in large, sharp features described, neither individual
events still limited Feelings confused his eye, loving general considerations gave him pointers,
not to embarrass him, and he first saw his picture beside himself, not as in a mirror a self
but as in another second self portrait: it is committed while not to all trains, but you look
forward to conclude that a thinking mind us has such a large Talent us so want to show that a picture
of what we were, and still is that it may take even longer than us.

William is now concerned by all the circumstances of this manuscript in his memory came back, the
story of his life set up for Theresa, and he was ashamed almost, that he had set up against their
great virtues, nothing that a properly Activity could prove. So complicated, he was in the essay,
so he just put his hand in the letter which he wrote to her, he asked her for her friendship,
her love, if it would be possible, he offered her his hand and asked for early decision.

After some internal debate about whether he still until this important
matter with his friends, should consult with Jarno and the abbe, he
decided to keep silent.

He was determined to be, the thing was for him too important to them that he would have the Court
of the rational subject and the best man may, indeed, he took the precaution of his letter
to the next post to order itself. Perhaps he had the idea that he in so many Circumstances
of his life where he felt free to act in secret and observed, has been conducting even was,
as he made the written role not appeared indistinct, a kind of unpleasant sensation, where,
and now he wanted at least to Theresa's heart strictly speaking from
the heart and its resolution and decide his fate be guilty and he
made no conscience, his guards and supervisors on this important point
To work at least.

Book VIII, 2 Chapter - 1

Chapter Two

No sooner had the letter was sent, came back as a Lothario. Everyone rejoiced, the prepared important
business is done and soon to see finished, and Wilhelm eagerly desire like so many strings attached
partly new, partly dissolved, and now his own relationship to the future should be determined.
Lothario they all welcomed in the best and he was completely restored and cheerful, he had
the reputation of a man who knows what to do, and in particular,
will do what he is not handicapped.

William could not give him back his cordial greeting. "This," he had to be even say, "the friend, the
lover, the bridegroom Theresa, at the place you up intrude think. Do you think ever erase that impression
or to ban? " Would be the letter has not been away, he might not have dared to send him. Fortunately,
the cast was already done, perhaps Therese already decided, only the Distance covered still
a happy consummation with her veil. Profit and Loss had decide soon. He sought to calm through
all these considerations, and yet were the movements of his heart
almost feverishly.

Little attention, he could turn to the important business, what some extent the fate of his property
hung. Oh! how insignificant man appears in passionate moments all around him, everything he
angehoert!

Fortunately for him, treated the matter Lothario large, and Werner with ease. This had with his
fierce desire to acquire a lively joy upon the beautiful property, should be of him or rather his
friends.
  The written natural history of the
beaver is usually that of the American species; not that this differs materially from his European
congener, but simply because it has been more extensively and accurately observed.  Its valuable
fur has long rendered it an object of the chase; and for fifty years it has been hunted a l'outrance,
and, in fact, exterminated from a wide domain of more than a million of square miles. Formerly,
its range extended from the Gulf of Mexico almost to the shores of the Arctic Sea, and latitudinally
from ocean to ocean.  At present, it is not found in the territory of the United States proper,
except in remote and solitary situations, among the mountains, or in some tracts still unsettled.
Even where found in these places, its mode of life approximates more to that of the European
species; that is, it burrows instead of builds.  The beaver has been long reputed as the most
sagacious of quadrupeds.  True it is, that the capacity of cutting down trees--often a foot
or more in diameter--floating or rafting these trees down a stream, and constructing a dam
with them, and afterwards building its singular houses or lodges in the water, would seem to
indicate the presence of a rational power.  But there are many other creatures-- birds, insects,
and quadrupeds--that exhibit instincts quite as surprising.

Nevertheless the habits of the beaver are curious in the extreme, and deserve to be given in
detail.  The best account of them is that of the old and truthful traveller Hearne: upon whose
homely but accurate observations scores of fireside naturalists have established a measure
of their fame.  We shall leave him to tell the story of these singular animals.

"The beavers," he says, "being so plentiful, the attention of my companions was chiefly engaged
on them, as they not only furnished delicious food, but their skins proved a valuable acquisition,--being
a principal article of trade, as well as a serviceable one for clothing. The situation of the
beaver-houses are various.  Where the beavers are numerous, they are found to inhabit lakes,
ponds, and rivers, as well as those narrow creeks which connect the numerous lakes with which
this country abounds; but the two latter are generally chosen by them when the depth of water
and other circumstances are suitable, as they have then the advantage of a current to convey
wood and other necessaries to their habitations; and because, in general, they are more difficult
to be taken than those that build in standing water.  They always choose those parts that have
such a depth of water as will resist the frost in winter, and prevent it from freezing to the
bottom.  The beavers that build their houses in small rivers or creeks, in which water is liable
to be drained off when the back supplies are dried up by the frost, are wonderfully taught
by instinct to provide against that evil by making a dam quite across the river, at a convenient
distance from their houses. The beaver-dams differ in shape, according to the nature of the
place in which they are built.  If the water in the river or creek have but little motion,
the dam is almost straight; but when the current is more rapid, it is always made with a considerable
curve, convex towards the stream.  The materials made use of are drift-wood, green willows,
birch, and poplars if they can be got; also mud and stones, intermixed in such a manner as
must evidently contribute to the strength of the dam; but there is no other order or method
observed in the dams, except that of the work being carried on with a regular sweep, and all
the parts being made of equal strength.

"The beaver-houses are built of the same materials as their dams, and are always proportioned
in size to the number of inhabitants, which seldom exceeds four old and six to eight young
ones; though, by chance, I have seen above double the number.  Instead of order or regulation
being observed in rearing their houses, they are of a much ruder structure than their dams;
for, notwithstanding the sagacity of these animals, it has never been observed that they aim
at any other convenience in their houses than to have a dry place to lie on; and there they
usually eat their victuals, which they occasionally take out of the water.  It frequently happens
that some of the large houses are found to have one or more partitions (if they deserve that
appellation), but it is no more than a part of the main building left by the sagacity of the
beaver to support the roof.  On such occasions it is common for these different apartments,
as some are pleased to call them, to have no communication with each other but by water; so
that, in fact, they may be called double or treble houses, rather than different apartments
of the same house.  I have seen a large beaver-house built in a small island that had near
a dozen apartments under one roof; and, two or three of these only excepted, none of them had
any communication with each other but by water.  As there were beavers enough to inhabit each
apartment, it is more than probable that each family knew their own, and always entered at
their own door, without any further connection with their neighbours than a friendly intercourse,
and to join their united labours in erecting their separate habitations, and building their
dams where required.  Travellers who assert that the beavers have two doors to their houses--one
on the land side, and the other next the water-- seem to be less acquainted with these animals
than others who assign them an elegant suite of apartments.  Such a construction would render
their houses of no use, either to protect them from their enemies, or guard them against the
extreme cold of winter. *** Wife offered after a short time means even the hands, after which the good girl is
Theresa's father left, went on in the procurement of the household, and against the lady of
the house almost more servility and acquiescence as previously testified.
  When any unnecessary branches project
inward they cut them off with their teeth, and throw them in among the rest, to prevent the
mud from falling through the roof.  It is a mistaken notion that the woodwork is first completed
and then plastered; for the whole of their houses, as well as their dams, are, from the foundation,
one mass of mud and wood, mixed with stones, if they can be procured.  The mud is always taken
from the edge of the bank, or the bottom of the creek or pond near the door of the house; and
though their fore-paws are so small, yet it is held close up between them under their throat:
thus they carry both mud and stones, while they always drag the wood with their teeth.  All
their work is executed in the night, and they are so expeditious, that in the course of one
night I have known them to have collected as much as amounted to some thousands of their little
handfuls.

"Their food consists of a large root, something resembling a cabbage-stalk, which grows at
the bottom of the lakes and rivers.  They also eat the bark of trees, particularly those of
the poplar, birch, and willow; but the ice preventing them from getting to the land in the
winter, they have not any bark to feed on in that season, except that of such sticks as they
cut down in summer, and throw into the water opposite the doors of their houses; and as they
generally eat a great deal, the roots above-mentioned constitute a principal part of their
food during the winter.  In summer they vary their diet by eating various kinds of herbage,
and such berries as grow near their haunts during that season.  When the ice breaks up in the
spring the beavers always leave their houses, and rove about until a little before the fall
of the leaf, when they return again to their old habitations, and lay in their winter-stock
of wood.  They seldom begin to repair their houses till the frost commences, and never finish
the outer coat till the cold is pretty severe, as has been already mentioned.  When they erect
a new habitation they begin felling the wood early in the summer, but seldom begin to build
until the middle or latter end of August, and never complete it till the cold weather be set in.

"Persons who attempt to take beavers in winter should be thoroughly acquainted with their manner
of life; otherwise they will have endless trouble to effect their purpose, because they have
always a number of holes in the banks, which serve them as places of retreat when any injury
is offered to their houses, and in general it is in those holes that they are taken.  When
the beavers which are situated in a small river or creek are to be taken, the Indians sometimes
find it necessary to stake the river across to prevent them from passing; after which they
endeavour to find out all their holes or places of retreat in the bank. This requires much
practice and experience to accomplish, and is performed in the following manner:--Every man
being furnished with an ice-chisel, lashes it to the end of a small staff about four to five
feet long; he then walks along the edge of the banks, and keeps knocking his chisel against
the ice.  Those who are acquainted with that kind of work well know by the sound of the ice
when they are opposite to any of the beavers' holes or vaults.  As soon as they suspect any,
they cut a hole through the ice big enough to admit an old beaver; and in this manner proceed
till they have found out all their places of retreat, or at least as many of them as possible.
While the principal men are thus employed, some of the under-strappers and the women are busy
in breaking open the house--which at times is no easy task, for I have frequently known these
houses to be five or six feet thick; and one, in particular, was more than eight feet thick
in the crown.  When the beavers find that their habitations are invaded, they fly to their
holes in the banks for shelter; and on being perceived by the Indians, which is easily done,
by attending to the motion of the water, they block up the entrance with stakes of wood, and
then haul the beaver out of its hole, either by hand, if they can reach it, or with a large
hook made for that purpose, which is fastened to the end of a long stick.  The beaver is an
animal which cannot keep long under at a time; so that when their houses are broken open, and
all their places of retreat discovered, they have but one choice left, as it may be called--either
to be taken in their house or their vaults; in general they prefer the latter; for where there
is one beaver caught in the house, many thousands are taken in the vaults in the banks.  Sometimes
they are caught in nets, and, in summer, very frequently in traps.

"In respect to the beavers dunging in their houses, as some persons assert, it is quite wrong,
as they always plunge into water to do it.  I am the better enabled to make this assertion,
from having kept several of them till they became so domesticated as to answer to their name,
and follow those to whom they were accustomed in the same manner as a dog would do; and they
were as much pleased at being fondled as any animal I ever saw.  In cold weather they were
kept in my own sitting-room, where they were the constant companions of the Indian women and
children; and were so fond of their company, that when the Indians were absent for any considerable
time, the beavers discovered great signs of uneasiness, and on their return showed equal marks
of pleasure, by fondling on them, crawling into their laps, lying on their backs, sitting erect
like a squirrel, and behaving like children who see their parents but seldom. In general, during
the winter, they lived on the same food as the women did; and were immoderately fond of rice
and plum-pudding; they would eat partridges and fresh venison very freely; but I never tried
them with fish, though I have heard they will at times prey on them.  In fact, there are few
graminivorous animals that may not be brought to be carnivorous."

The Musquash, or Musk-rat, is undoubtedly a beaver, and has been called at times the Little
Beaver; but it has pleased the naturalists to constitute it a genus of itself, though there
is only the one species known.  Its habits are extremely like those of the beaver: it is aquatic,
or amphibious, if you please--building itself a conical house in the midst of a swamp, or low
islet, and feeding on shoots of trees, bits of green wood, leaves and stalks of nettles, and
other herbaceous plants.  Its fur bears a very great resemblance to that of the beaver, only
it is shorter, and therefore less valuable.  Notwithstanding this, it is an article of extensive
commerce; and upwards of a million skins have been imported into England in a single year.
The musquash might also be exterminated like the beaver; but being a smaller creature, and
therefore less persecuted by the amateur sportsman, it is still common enough upon the streams
of the northern and middle States of America. Further north it is plentiful; and the Hudson's
Bay Company procure a vast number of skins for annual exportation to Europe.  Its name of musk-rat
is derived from the scent of musk which the animal emits, and which is especially powerful
during the season of rut.

It is possible that the musk-rat of Siberia, as well as several species of water-rats belonging
to South America--and known vaguely by the name of Lutras and Nutrias--may be animals of the
beaver kind, rather than Water-Rats or Otters, among which they are generally classed.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

SQUIRRELS.

These pretty little animals are widely distributed over the earth; though to this remark Australia
seems to form an exception, since no species has yet been discovered there.  However, there
is much of that great island continent yet to be explored; and perhaps it may turn out that
Australia has its squirrels, as well as other parts of the world-- no doubt squirrels with pouches.

In number of species--and also of individuals, it may be added--America excels all other countries,
and the great forests of North America may be regarded as the head-quarters of the squirrel
tribe; but, if we give precedence to size, the squirrels of the East Indian countries are entitled
to the first place.

Animals known as Squirrels are of three very distinct kinds--viz., Squirrels, properly so called;
Ground Squirrels: and Flying Squirrels. These three kinds are very naturally separated into
three different genera; but the closet naturalists, not content with this simple division,
have again subdivided them into other sub-genera, using very difficult names to distinguish
them.  In our little sketch we shall simply call them by the three names above-mentioned.

The Squirrels, properly so called, are not only tree-climbers, but, as every one knows, dwell
habitually upon trees, and there make their nests and their home.  And perfectly at home they
are among the highest branches; for under no circumstances do they ever miss their footing,
or are they in the slightest danger of falling.  In fact, they can not only run with the greatest
agility along the branches, but equally well with their backs downward; and can spring from
branch to branch, and also from tree to tree, over wide intervals of many yards.  They can
also leap down from the tops of the tallest trees to the earth--a feat often witnessed by squirrel-hunters--and
do so without the appearance of having received the slightest injury; for, without pausing
a moment on the ground, they continue their flight towards some other tree, where they expect
to find better shelter from the short gun or rifle of their human enemy. Wilhelm
crack at these words from the arms of Theresa's. "Where are you going?" called both Women. "Let
me see the child," he exclaimed, "I have killed! The accident, we see with the eyes is less than
if our imagination the evil force sinks in our mind, let us see the departed angel! His cheerful
countenance will tell us that it probably is, "Because not prevent the friends moved Juengling
could, they followed him, but the good doctor, who gave them entgegenkam with the surgeon, them
off, get closer to the deceased, and said: "Stay away from this sad Objects removed, and allow
me to the remains of this strange being, so much my art can, give some time. I want the beautiful
art, a body not to embalm alone, but to get it into a live appearance, this beloved Creatures
to apply immediately. As I foresaw her death, I have made all preparations, and with the assistant's
here with me to succeed. Allow me only a few days and you ask the dear child do not see again until
we are in the Hall of the Past have brought. "

The young surgeon had that remarkable instrument case back in hands. "Who he may well have "asked
William the doctor."

I know them very well, "said Natalie, "He has of his father, who then joined in the woods."

"Oh,
so I'm not mistaken," said Wilhelm, "I recognized the band at once! Contact Me from it! It brought
me back to the first track of my Wohltaeterin.

How much Weal and woe not survive such a lifeless creature! With how much pain this was Band
is currently not already, and its threads still hold! How many people last Moment has already
supported, and its colors are not faded! It was presently in one of the most beautiful moments
of my life since I was wounded on the ground and your a helping shape appeared in front of me as
a child with bloody hair, with the tenderness Care for my life was concerned, his premature death, we
mourn now. "

The friends had not much time to talk to about this sad incident and
Fraeulein Theresa about the child and about the likely cause of his
unexpected Death explain himself, for it was reported stranger who,
when they were, by no means foreign goods.

Lothario, Jarno, the Abbe entered. Natalie went to meet her brother; among the other was a momentary
silence. Theresa said with a smile Lothario: "They thought unlikely to find me here, at least
it is not just advisable, that we see ourselves in this moment, however, you are to me after
a long absence warmly greeted. "

Lothario took her hand and replied: "If we are to suffer and do without one, after all, so it may
well occur in the presence of the beloved and desirable good. I ask no impact on your resolution, and
my trust in your heart to Your mind and pure mind is still so great
that I give you my destiny and that Fate of my friend like to put
in the hand.

"

The conversation turned immediately to general, yes you may say to insignificant items. The
company broke up soon for a walk in single pairs. Natalie was with Lothario, Therese went to
the Abbe, and William was left with Jarno in the castle.

Book VIII, 5 Chapter - 2

The appearance of the three friends at the moment, as Wilhelm a severe pain on the Breast was,
had instead to distract him, irritated his temper and worse, and he was vexed and suspicious and could
not and did not conceal it, when Jarno him over his sullen Silence to the speech began. "What's
needed there more?" exclaimed Wilhelm. "Lothario comes with his advisers, and it would be wonderful
if those mysterious powers of the tower, which are always so busy, not now affect us and I do
not know what a should execute with purpose and strange to us. As far as I know these holy men,
It seems every time their laudable intention to separate the ones and the severed parts to .
Connect What it can occur for a tissue, may well our unholy eyes forever remain a mystery.
"

"They are angry and bitter," said Jarno, "that is quite nice and good. If you only once rather
be evil, it will be even better. "

"This may be advice," said Wilhelm, "and I greatly fear that you feel
like my innate patience and be trained to provoke this time to the
utmost.

"

"I would like for you yet," said Jarno, "however, until we see where
our stories also do something about the tower, against which you cherish
such a great distrust seem.

"

"It is with you," said Wilhelm, "if you want to venture out on my
distraction.

My mind is so much busy that I do not know whether this assessment adventures can take the
guilty party. "

"I will," said Jarno, "by your pleasant mood did not deter you enlighten this point. You think
I'm a clever guy, and you shall tell me also hold for an honest and, what is more, this time
I order ."--" I wish, " said Wilhelm, "You speak from my own motion and for good will, enlighten
me; and I hope you can not hear without suspicion, why should you listen to when I ?"--" have
nothing better to do now, "said Jarno," to tell a fairy tale, you have indeed also probably
time to devote some attention, perhaps you are inclined to, if I say at the outset: everything you
have seen in the tower are actually only relics of a youthful company,
which is initially the most uninitiated Ernst was great and now all
about the smile only occasionally.

"

"Pay tribute to those signs and words to play it!" exclaimed Wilhelm, "it leads ceremony with
us to a place that inspires awe of us, it leaves us the most wonderful Phenomena can see, gives
us full rolls beautiful, mysterious rich Proverbs, of which We certainly understand the least,
we were told that we have been apprentices, one absolves us, and we are no wiser than before
."--" Have you not in the parchment ? Hand, "said Jarno," it contains much good, for those who
are not of general Proverbs of thin air, of course, they seem to that dark and empty, which is no experience
it remembers. Give me the so-called apprenticeship but when he is near ."--" Certainly, very
close, "said Wilhelm," said an amulet on his chest, one should always bear ."--" Well, " Jarno
said, smiling, "who knows if the contents are not even in your head
and heart space find them.

"

Jarno looked into it and ran over the first half with his eyes.

"This," he said, "refers to the training of the artistic sense, what others may say, is the second
from Life, and I'm much better at home. "

He started forward to reading posts, speaking in between and tied notes and stories with one.
"The tendency of youth to the secret ceremonies and big words is extraordinary, and often a sign
of a certain depth of character. They want to be all these years Essence, if only dark and vague feel
touched and taken. The young man, the other guesses believes in a lot of secrets to find, place
in a secret and much to have to work through the same thing. In these sentiments encouraged
the Abbe, a young company, partly according to his principles, partly from inclination and
habit, as it probably once a Company was in contact, which might have even worked a lot in secret.
I I could see this being the least. I was older than the others, I had of youth seen on a clear
and wished nothing but clarity in all things, and I had no other interest than to know the world as
it was, and stuck with this hobby, the rest best companions, and almost all been aware of our
education is a wrong direction taken: for we began to see the mistakes of others and their limitations
and us to keep himself for being excellent. The Abbe came to our aid, and taught us that If
the people do not have to watch without an interest for their education, and that they themselves
actually observed only in the activities and listening to a position was. He advised us to
keep those first forms of society, and it was therefore somewhat Legal in our meetings, it
was easy the first mystical impressions on the establishment of the whole, later took it as a parable,
the shape of a craft on, rising to the art. Hence came the names of apprentices, assistants
and Masters. We wanted to see with my own eyes and our own archive of our knowledge of the world
form, so were the many denominations, we wrote some himself, including some we led others and
from which afterwards the "apprenticeship" was composed. Not everyone is doing really about
their education, many wish for such a home remedy well-being, wealth and recipes for every kind
of bliss. All of these, the would not be stood on its feet, were with mystification and other
things Hoax some stayed, some aside to be related. We spoke to our species going on just those
the bright felt and clearly known what they were born and who practiced enough had to follow up
with a certain cheerfulness and ease their way. "

"To have found a hurry with me very much," said Wilhelm, "for what I can, will or will, I know
exactly since that moment, least of all ."--" We are guiltless in this confusion get the good
luck might help us out again, however, you hear only: "The one on which much is to develop
later, and the world will be solved. There are only a few who have the sense and both are capable
to act. The sense of extended but paralyzes; enlivens the action, but restricted ".

"I ask you," cried Wilhelm, "you read to me by these strange words, nothing more! These phrases
have been confused enough ."--" made me and I will stay with the story ", Jarno said, by the role
zuwickelte half and did just sometimes a look inside. "I even the society and people have used
the least, I am a very bad Teacher, it is unbearable for me to see if someone makes clumsy attempts,
a Astray I must call out the same, and if it would be a sleep-walker, which I saw in danger straight
path to break the neck. About it now I had always been my trouble with the Abbe, the claims that
the error could be cured only by the insane. Also we have about you We often quarreled and
he had taken special attention in favor, and it is saying something, pull in the high level
of attention to himself. You have to say of me that I will when I encountered you, the whole truth
told ."--" You have spared me much, " said Wilhelm, "and you seem to stay true to your principles
."--" What is there to conserve, "said Jarno," when a young man of many good qualities a completely
wrong Direction takes ?"--" Pardon, "said Wilhelm," you have given me strict enough all ability
the actor agreed, I will confess that if I renounced all right of this art have, so I can not possibly
be by myself for quite unable to explain ."--" And with me, "said Jarno," it's so pure decided
that anyone who is just playing himself can not an actor is. Who is not the meaning and form according
to many forms can turn, does not deserve the name. To have as Hamlet, and some other roles played
well, where your character, your form and mood of the Moment you benefited. That would be
now for a lover of theater and for each one well enough, would see no other way to go. "One should",
"Jarno went by He looked at the role "" against a talented keepers at exercise is not in perfection
Has hope. One may take it as far as we wish, we shall always last; if we even the merit of the
Master is clear, the loss of time and powers that the we have turned to such a bungling, painful
regret. ""

"Do not read!" Wilhelm said, "I urge you, continue to speak, tell Me, you clarify for me! And so
therefore, the Abbe helped me to Hamlet, by managed to bring about a spirit ?"--" Yes, he assured
that it was the only way you to To cure if you would be cured ."--"

And so he let me back the curtain and told me flee ?"--" Yes, he even hoped, with the idea
of ​​Hamlet should be your whole desire fined be. They would not re-enter after the theater,
he claimed, I believe the Opposite, and was proved right. We argued that evening even after
the show about it ."--" And You have seen me play so ?"--" O certainly !"--" And who presented
for the spirit before the ?"--" I can not even say, either the Abbe or his twin brother, but I think
this, for he is a little bigger ."--" So you have secrets even among friends ?"--" can and
should have secrets from each other and are themselves not a secret. "

"It confuses me even the memory of this confusion. You enlighten me about the man to whom I owe so
much and I have to make so much accusations. "

"What it makes us so valuable", said Jarno, "what was effectively the rule About us gets all
the free and clear look that his nature over all forces, has given
the people only live for and what each can form in nature.

Most people, even the benefits are only restricted; Everyone appreciates some Properties for
himself and others, only that he favored, he only wants to know the form. Quite the opposite effect
of the Abbe, he has a sense of know everything, desire to at all, it carry and. Since I have
to see again in the role, "continued Jarno." "Only all People make up the human race, only all
the forces together, the world. These are among themselves often in conflict, and by seeking
to destroy, she considers the nature together and bring it up again. From the lowest animal
instincts to craft highest exercise of the most spiritual art, from babbling and shouting of
the child to the most excellent utterance of the speaker and singer, from the first bellows
of the boys up to the huge institutions, which states are obtained and conquered, from the
lightest benevolence and volatile Love to the most violent passion and the most serious league,
by the purest feeling of sensual presence to the slightest suspicions and hopes of the most distant
intellectual Future, all that and much more is in the people and must be trained, but not in one but
in many. Each system is important and needs to be developed. If of only the beautiful, the other
carried only the useful, then both together make the first a man out. The Useful carried himself,
for the amount it produces, and all can not do without's: beauty must be transported, for few's
place represent, and many require it. ""

"Keep hold!" cried Wilhelm, "I have read all ."--" Just a few lines," said Jarno, "here I find
the whole Abbe again:" A force dominates the others, but none can the other form, in any system
alone is the power to complete itself, to understand so few people who want to teach it and act.
""--"

And I do not understand, " Wilhelm replied .-- "You are above this text the Abbe still often hear enough,
and so can They see us just always quite clear and hold, which is up to us and what we train to
us can, let's be fair to the others, for we are to respect only insofar to appreciate as we know
."--" For God's sake! Sentences no further! I feel that they have a bad cure for a wounded
heart. Tell me dear with your cruel Determination, what you expect of me and how and in what way
you want to sacrifice me. "-" In any suspicion, I assure you, will you apologize to our future. It's
your thing to examine and choose, and our, you beizustehn. Man is not more happy, until his
unconditional desire itself determines its boundaries. Not contain myself You, but to the
Abbe; not in itself do you think, but in what surrounds you. Learning You see, for example, Lothario
excellence, as its survey and its activity inseparably linked, as he is always in progress, as
it spreads and with each fortreisst. He leads, where he was also animated a world to himself,
his presence and fired. See our good Doctor need it! It seems just the opposite In nature. If that
is only the whole and in the distance, so that its intended bright look only to the next thing,
he provides the means for more activity than that he hervorbraechte the activity and animated, his
action looks good economies completely similar, its effectiveness is still, by each one carried
in his circle; his knowledge is a constant collection and dispensation, a business and sharing in the
small. Perhaps Lothario could destroy in a day, what this has built over the years, but perhaps
Lothario shares in an instant with the other force that destroyed a hundred restore ."--" It is
a sad business, "said Wilhelm," When talking about to think pure merits of the others in a moment,
as it is divided against himself is, such considerations are the quiet man at ease, not the
one who by passion and uncertainty is moving is to be regarded ."--" calm and reasonable cause
damage at any time, and by train us to think about the merits of others, to face the our even imperceptibly
into place, and that any wrong activity, what attracts us to the imagination, will then gladly
given up by us. Liberate your mind of everything where possible suspicion and all the anxiety!
Here comes the Abbe, you are so kind to him until you have learn how much you you owe him. The rogue!
since it goes between Natalie and Theresa, I wanted to bet, he thinks of something. Just as
he at all like a little Fate plays, he can not from the hobby, sometimes a marriage to donate.
"

Wilhelm, whose passionate and angry mood with all the wise and good Jarno's words had not been
improved, found maximum indelicate that his friend is in this moment of such a relationship
mentioned, and said, while smiling, not yet without bitterness: "I thought, was left to the
hobby to donate marriages, persons, the love itself. "

Book VIII, 6 Chapter

Chapter Six

The company had just met again, and our friends were
compelled to to break off the conversation.

Before long, a courier was reported that a letter in Lothario own hands was handed over, the
man had shown it was, he looked vigorous and efficient, his livery was very rich and tasty.
Wilhelm thought he knew him, and he was wrong no, it was the same man he then forwarded Philine
and the supposed Mariane had and had not come back.


The African elephants are said also to be larger as they dwell nearer to the Equator; and from
this it would appear that the elephant is essentially a tropical animal, and thrives best in
the climate of the torrid zone.

The Asiatic elephant is found wild as well as domesticated in nearly all the Indian countries,
as also in many of the large islands.  Its range northward is bounded by the lower hills of
the Himalayas; and among these, especially through the saul forests, these huge animals roam
about in herds, each herd being under the guidance or leadership of an old male, or "bull,"
as he is termed.  As an elephant brings a considerable sum of money, even in India, these are
eagerly hunted; and their capture is accomplished by decoying them into a pound or enclosure
constructed for the purpose, where ropes are attached to them, and then tied to the neighbouring
trees.  The decoy used is a tame elephant, that has been already trained for the purpose.

There are in India, as well as in Africa, certain old bull elephants that lead a solitary life,
and that are scarcely ever seen in company with the herds.  These bachelors are usually of
a morose and fierce disposition, and when one of them is captured it requires all the skill
of the hunters to keep clear of danger.  These wild bulls are larger and stronger than the
common kind, and so untamable in their ferocity that even when captured no use can be made
of them, since they will die rather than submit to being trained.  They are called Goondahs
by the people of Hindostau, and by English hunters Rogues or Rovers.

The African elephant next merits attention.  There is no difficulty in distinguishing this
species from any of the Indian varieties.  The immensely large ears constitute a marked characteristic
of the former, which at once becomes recognisable.  Other points of difference are the greater
convexity of the forehead or skull and the larger size of the tusks; though this last point
of distinction is not always to be depended upon, since there are Indian elephants with tusks
of similar dimensions.  Generally, however, the African elephants have the largest "ivories."

In point of bulk the Asiatic species has been considered superior; but this belief may not
be correct.  Certain circumstances should be taken into account.  The Asiatic elephant is living
in a domesticated state, and this may have produced a greater size, as it does in the case
of most other quadrupeds.  Another circumstance: the African elephants of our collections have
been mostly obtained from the Cape, or the regions contiguous to it.  But it is now known that
in the countries nearer to the equator there exists a much larger kind, that appears to be
quite as bulky as any of the Asiatic varieties.

The height of the elephant has been much exaggerated by travellers--some having been described
as measuring eighteen feet from the foot to the top of the shoulder!  An authority on this
subject, who measured the largest he could meet with in different parts of India, found none
that stood over twelve feet, and this appears to be the actual height of the very biggest of
elephants.

The African elephants have not been tamed--at least not in modern times; but it is certain
that the elephants used by the Carthaginians in their wars with the Romans were of this species;
and also that African elephants were the species exhibited by Caesar and Pompey in the Roman arena.

In a wild state the African elephant has a wide range--from the Cape country on the south to
Senegal on the western side, throughout the whole of Central Africa, and along the oriental
coast to the valley of the Nile; but it is not very certain whether the elephant of the eastern
countries of Africa is the African species or a variety of the Asiatic kind.  The African elephant
is said to be fiercer than that of Asia; but this is a doubtful statement; and perhaps the
habits of the two do not materially differ, farther than might be expected from a difference
of climate, food, and other external circumstances.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

THE HIPPOPOTAMUS, RHINOCEROS, AND TAPIR.

Though these three kinds of creatures belong to different genera, there is a certain family
likeness among them that entitles them to be classed together; and since there are not many
species of each, they will conveniently form a group.

Of late the hippopotamus has been the most notorious of the three; though he is far from being
as interesting an animal as the rhinoceros. Since, however, he is at present the most popular,
we shall give him the foremost place in our sketch.

The Hippopotamus was known to the Greeks and Romans.  His name is Greek, and, as every one
knows, signifies the River-horse. She handed Wilhelm, smiling his hand and said, "Thank you, want you to
bring the child back, they had him kidnapped as God knows, and I could zeither not live. As long
as my heart on the earth or something needed, this is the gap fill. "

The rest, which Mignon had received her friend said, the company in great satisfaction. The doctor insisted
that she see Wilhelm more often and that they are both physically should get mentally balanced.
He went away and promised in a short Time to return.

Wilhelm could now see Natalie in her circle: one would have wished nothing better, than to live next
to her. Their presence had the purest influence on young girls and Women of different ages
who lived mainly in their home, partly out of the neighborhood they more or less came to visit.

"The course of your life," Wilhelm once said to her, "was probably always the same? For the
description, which makes your aunt that you as a child, seems if I am not mistaken, still always
fit. They have, it feels good to you, never confused. They were never compelled to take a step
back. "

"I am my uncle and the Abbe guilty," said Natalie, "the peculiarities of my to judge knew so well.
I remember from my youth a little more lively impression I looked everywhere as the needs of
people and an insurmountable desire felt to make up for it. The child who could not yet stand
on its feet, the Old man, who was not on his own, the desire for a rich family Children, the
inability of poor to get theirs, any longing for quiet a business, the drive to a talent, the
facilities to hundreds of small, necessary skills, them to discover everywhere, my eyes seemed destined
by nature. I saw what I no one had drawn attention, and I seemed even born to see that. The
stimuli of inanimate nature, for which so many people are extremely responsive, had no effect to
me, almost still less the charms of art, my most pleasant feeling was and is it even when I represented
a lack of a need in the world, once in the spirit a replacement, a means of finding a help.

I
saw were a poor man in rags, so me those excess clothes I in the Closets of my family had seen
hanging, I saw children who are without care and without Ate care,
I remembered this or that woman, which I, in wealth and had convenience,
boredom be noted, I saw many people trapped in a narrow space, I thought
they would have to in the great rooms of some houses and palaces quartered
be.

Seeing this kind was with me all natural, without the least reflection, so that I kid about
it as the most wonderful stuff from the world and made more than once the strangest requests
that people put in a predicament.


A second species, the Warak, which inhabits Java, is somewhat similarly accoutred; but the
third Asiatic kind, the Sumatran rhinoceros, has a smoother skin, more resembling that of the
African rhinoceros.

These last-mentioned are denizens of the African continent; but especially of the regions extending
northward from the Cape.  They do not all four frequent the same district; but two, and sometimes
three of them, are found in one locality.  They are distinguished as the black and white rhinoceroses--there
being two species of the black, and two of the white.  The black ones are much fiercer than
their white congeners; although the latter are by far the largest, and present a far more formidable
appearance, from the extreme length of their horns.

The Tapir was for a long time supposed to be exclusively an American animal, but later research
proves that there is also a species in Asia. It is found in the Island of Sumatra, and is larger
than the American species, though very much resembling it in other respects.  A new species
has also been discovered in South America, altogether differing from the American tapir already
so well-known.

The habits of the American tapir are not unlike those of the rhinoceros. It is a creature of
great strength, and heavy in its movements.  It can live for a long time under water; and its
haunts are the banks of the great rivers--especially where these are marshy, and covered with
reeds and other aquatic plants, which constitute its food.  It can swim or walk under the water
at will; but its lair is generally in some bushy retreat at a distance from the banks; and
its visits to the water are usually nocturnal.  It is an object of chase among the native Indians,
who prize both its flesh and skin; but its capture is by no means an easy matter, since its
thick hide renders it impervious to the tiny arrow of the blow-gun.

This species is found in all the rivers of South America, from Paraguay to the Isthmus of Darien;
but its range terminates very abruptly on the north--a fact which puzzles the naturalist, since
for many degrees further northward, climate and other circumstances are found similar to those
which appear to favour its existence in the southern part of the continent.

The other species of American tapir differs considerably in the nature of its haunts and habits.
In these it is said more to resemble the tapir of Sumatra.  The latter is found dwelling at
a great elevation, in fact, on the tops of the highest mountains of that island; whereas the
Danta, or American tapir, is altogether confined to the low hot plains. In the same district
of country, and even in the same rivers--but further up among the mountains--the smaller species
of American tapir is met with, but never upon the low level of the plains.

When we consider that for more than three centuries, in a country inhabited by a civilised
people, this new species of American tapir has remained not only undescribed but even unknown
to the scientific world, we may fairly conjecture that other species of this, as well as of
many other animals, may yet be brought to light to gratify the lover of nature, and add to
his store of pleasant knowledge.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

GIRAFFES, CAMELS, AND LLAMAS.

Strictly speaking, the Giraffes cannot be considered as belonging to the same family with the
Camels, nor yet the Camels be classed with the Llamas; but there is a very great resemblance
between these three genera of animals, and, except for scientific purposes, they form a group
sufficiently natural.  Indeed any one of the three is more like to the other two than to any
other kind of mammalia; although some naturalists prefer considering the giraffe as a species
of deer. M. de *** wished
the child of his beloved as his legally introduce in the house, and Mrs. by ***, glumly, that
the indiscretion of their doctors her condition in the neighborhood had wanted to announce, just
by a changeling to sit down again in appearance and compliance by such a preponderance to get
in the house, they among the was afraid of losing other circumstances. She was more distance
than her husband, she saw him at his request and knew that without him entgegenzugehn to facilitate
an explanation. She made her conditions and received almost everything they wanted, and soon a Testament
to be taken care so little for what the child seemed. The old doctor had died, we turned to
a young, active, clever man, he was well rewarded, and he could itself an honor sought in the
fact the impropriety of his rashness and colleagues isolated to bring into the light and improve.
The true mother agreed not mind, they played the adjustment very well, Therese was born, and became
a stepmother appropriated, however, her real mother was a victim of this adjustment by focusing
too early again ventured out, the good man died and left behind bleak.

*** Wife, meanwhile, had quite reached their intention, they had before
the eyes of the world lovable child, with which she parodied exaggerated,
it was also a rival got rid of their relationship because they looked
at it with envious eyes, and their influence them for the future at
least, secretly was afraid they showered the child with tenderness
and her husband knew in confidential hours by such a lively participation
in its Loss in such a way to pull himself that he is you can say that
again, just showed his Happiness and the happiness of his child placed
in their hands and hardly a short time before his death, and even
to some extent only by his adult daughter, was again master of the
house.

The was nice Therese, the secret that you discovered your father probably sick so much would
have, that's what I'm about, just as the young friend, the weirdest of the become the world's linkage
of her fiance, is lacking in society, inconvenient wanted to present. Here are the papers
that prove the most strictly what I have alleged. You will also learn from it how long I have been
to this discovery on the trail and as I could but only now come to a certainty, as I did not
dare, my friend to say something about the possibility of happiness, because it would have offended
him too deep if this hope would be gone a second time. You will understand Lydia suspicion: for
I confess that I have the tendency of our friend to this good girl not had promoted since his
connection with Theresa, I looked forward again. "

No one said anything to this story. The woman gave the papers to some Sit back, without mentioning
them on.

They had enough resources to employ in the neighborhood, the society when they were together,
the area is also offered so many attractions that one would love it sometimes alone, sometimes
together, looking around on horseback, by carriage or on foot. Jarno directed at one such occasion,
his Order of William, put him in front of the papers, but seemed no further resolution to ask him.

"In
this very singular state in which I am," William said on need "

I will only repeat what I once early in the presence of Natalie's, and certainly said with a pure
heart have: Lothario and his friends can any kind of renunciation
I demand, I present to you, all my claims hereby Theresa in the hand,
give Me, however my formal resignation.

Oh! is needed, my friend, no major concerns to decide me.
  Sometimes, however, it is enabled to drive the lion off
by kicking out against him with its heels, and tiring or discouraging him from the attack.

The Hottentots and Kaffirs hunt the giraffe for the sake of its flesh, which in young individuals
is very good eating.  Sometimes, however, it smells strongly of a species of shrub upon which
the animal feeds, and which gives it a disagreeable odour.  The Bushmen are particularly fond
of the marrow produced in its long shank bones, and to obtain this, they hunt the animal with
their poisoned arrows.  They also make out of its skin bottles and other vessels for containing
water.

Conspicuous as is the giraffe, it is not so easy to distinguish it in the haunts where it inhabits.
Seen from a distance, it has the appearance of a decayed tree, and, remaining motionless, it
is often passed by the hunter or traveller without being observed.  It is itself very keen-sighted;
and the manner in which its large beautiful eye is set gives it a decided advantage for seeing
around it, even without the necessity of turning its head.  On this account it is approached
with great difficulty, and usually contrives to escape from the most ardent pursuer.

The Camels come next in turn.  Of these there exist two distinct species--the Camel, or Bactrian
camel; and the Dromedary, or Arabian camel.  Both are found only in a domesticated state. 
Both are "beasts of burthen," and of both there are several varieties. By his influence
she was in the area for a delighted, not considered a lunatic; you stood with folded hands when she
passed, and the children kissed her hand.

Your old friend and companion was the confessor of the debt which they in the unfortunate People
might have had a combination of both, taken only under the condition that they should constantly
faithful companion to her whole future life, the unhappy, and she
has with admirable patience and diligence exercised their duties to
the last.

We were not our brother, meanwhile, lost sight, neither the physicians nor the Clergy of his
monastery would allow us to appear before him, but to us wanted to
convince that he was getting in his way well, we were able to him
as often as we, in the garden in the cloisters, so listen in through
a window on the ceiling of his room.

After many terrible and strange periods, which I pass over, he was in a strange State of peace
of mind and restlessness of the body fall. He sat almost never as when he took his harp and played
it since because he usually accompanied with singing. by the way he was always in motion and in
particular extremely docile and obedient, for all his Passions seemed to have dissolved in the
only fear of death.

You could move him for anything in the world, if he was a dangerous disease, or with the Death was
imminent.

Besides this peculiarity, that he tirelessly towards the monastery and went forth and not vague
intimating that it would be even better, over mountains and valleys Sun convert, said, He
also of a phenomenon, which scares him habitually. He once claimed that when he awoke at any hour of
the night, a nice boy down on his bed stand and threatened him with a shiny knife. They put
him in another room, but he claimed, too, and recently even in other
parts of the monastery, the boy stood in the ambush.

His up and modify became restless, so we remembered afterwards that he in time have more often than usual,
stood at the window and hinuebergesehen over the lake.

Our poor sister, however, seemed the only idea of ​​the limited employment be wiped out by
and by, and our doctor suggested it should gradually mingle with the rest of their bones,
the bones of a skeleton children, thereby their hope to multiply.

The experiment was doubtful, but at least seemed so much gained by it, that, if all the parts
together would be, diverted from the eternal search and her a trip to Rome could offer hope.

It
happened, and her companion exchanged imperceptibly entrusted to small groups with the found,
and an incredible joy spread over the poor patient, as the parts gradually came together and you
could call those who still were missing. She had with great care for each part, where it belongs,
with threads and bands attached, they had, as we are accustomed to
honor the body of saints, with silk and embroidery the Zwischenraeume
completed.

So you had let the members come together, it lacked only a few of the outer ends. One morning
when she was still asleep and the doctor had come to inquire after her health, took away the
old man who venerated remains from the casket, which stood in the bedroom to to show the doctor
how Pursuing the good patient. Shortly thereafter they heard from Skip the bed, she lifted the
cloth and found the box empty. She threw herself on her Knee, one came and heard her joyful, fervent
prayer. "Yes it's true!" she exclaimed, "It was no dream, it's really Rejoice, my friends with
me, I have the good, beautiful creature again seen alive. He got up and threw back the veil on himself,
his Splendor illuminated the room, his beauty was transfigured, it could not enter the soil, whether
it was the same. Easy it was lifted up and could not even hand me his hand. Because it called
me and showed me the way I should walk. I will follow him, and coming soon, I feel, and I feel so
light-hearted. My grief is gone, and even watching my back has resurrected me a foretaste of
the heavenly Joy given.

"

From the time she was quite comfortable with the cheerful outlook busy, no earthly object she
turned her attention more, they enjoyed a few meals, and her mind got away gradually from the
bonds of the body.

Also, she was found last pales suddenly and without sensation, she opened her eyes again, she
was what we call dead.

The fame of her vision had soon spread among the people, and the dignified appearance, she enjoyed
in her life was transformed after her death quickly in the idea that they would have to stop once for
salvation, even sacred.

When they wanted to bury them to the grave, many people move with incredible violence addition, they
wanted their hand, they wanted to at least touch her dress. In this passionate Raising the
patient felt different not bad, of which they otherwise tortured, they considered themselves
cured for it's known, they praised God and his new saints. The Clergy were compelled to put
the body in a chapel, the people demanded the opportunity to to perform his devotions, the rush
was incredible, and the mountain people, without giving the vibrant religious feelings are tuned,
forced their way forth from their valleys, and the devotion the miracles, the worship multiplied
every day. The bishop's regulations, should such a new service restrictions and reflected by degrees, could
are not brought to execution, each resistance was fierce and the people against any Infidels
ready to break out in violence. "Rearranged not," she cried, "the Holy Borromaeus among our ancestors?
Experienced his mother the joy of his beatification?

If you have not been that great image on the rocks near Arona us his spiritual greatness sensual
mind do? His family still live under non-us? And did not God promised to renew his faithful
people under one always wonders? "

When the body after several days gave no sign of rot away and more
white and as it was transparent, it increases the confidence of the
people more and more, and it were found among the multitude of different
treatments, the attentive observer itself is not and explain almost
could not raise a fraud.

The whole area was in motion; and who is not even came a time at least heard talk of nothing
else.

The monastery, which my brother was, sounded as good as the rest of this area Miracles, and they
took the less careful, in his presence to speak of it as He usually was aufzumerken to nothing and
no one was known to his relationship. This time but he seemed to have heard with great accuracy,
he led his flight with such Cleverness of that someone can never understand how he got out of
the monastery was. It was learned afterward that he can translate a number of pilgrims and that
he Schiffer, the more perceived nothing wrong in it, just about the biggest care asked to turn
the ship would not. Deep in the night he came into that chapel, where his hapless lover rested
from their suffering; little worshipers knelt in the corners, her old friend was sitting at her head,
he came and greeted her, and asked how her mistress JURISDICTION. "You see it," answered them not
without difficulty. He looked at the corpse only from the side. After some hesitation he took
her hand. Terrified from the cold, he let go, they at once, he looked around uneasily and said
to the Old: "I can not stay with her, I have yet to make a very long
way, but I will be there at the right time again, tell her that when
she wakes up.

"

So he went away, we were only notified late from this operation, according to one researcher,
where he had got there but in vain! As he worked through by mountains and valleys may have to be inconceivable.
Finally after a long time we found a trail in Graubuenden from him
again, but too late, and she was soon lost.

We assumed that, after Germany was, but the war had blurred such
weak footprints entirely.

"

VIII, 10th Chapter - 1

Chapter Ten

The Abbe stopped reading, and no one had zugehoert without tears. The countess took her cloth not
from the eyes; last she got up and left the room with Natalie. The others were silent, and said the
Abbe, "There now arises the question of whether the good Marchese
should be leave without him to discover our secret.

For he who doubts probably a Moment that Augustin and our harp player is a person? It is superior
to what we do, both to the unfortunate man as the family's sake. My advice would be, nothing
to rush to be seen, making us the doctor, we just back from there expect for news brings. "

Everyone had the same opinion, and the Abbe continued: "Another question that might dismiss faster
results, at the same time. The Marquis is incredibly moved by the hospitality, his poor niece
found us, especially our young friends, added. I told him the whole story circumstances or repeatedly
have to tell, and He showed his liveliest gratitude. "The young man," he said, "has turned down,
with to travel to me before he knew the relationship that exists between us. I am not now him
Longer a stranger, whose way of being and of his temper, he certainly is not it would be, I am
be obliged if you want to be relative, and since his youth, he did not leave wanted the first
obstacle was that kept him to get me to join, leave now this child to be beautiful volume, the aneinanderknuepft
us all the more solid. about the Obligation that I have now, already, he is still useful to
me on the journey, let him return back with me, my older brother received him with joy, he disdained
the inheritance his foster child is not: for, according to a secret
agreement of our father and his friends is the fortune that he had
turned to his daughter, fell back to us and we want the benefactors
of our niece certainly not denied what he deserves.

"

Therese took Wilhelm by the hand and said: "We are seeing again here as a nice Event that disinterested
benevolence brings the highest and most beautiful interest. Follow make this strange call, and
adding earned twice to the Marchese, hasten a nice country against
which your imagination and your heart more than once in has drawn.

"

"I leave myself entirely to my friends and their leadership," said
Wilhelm, "it is in vain, in this world at will strive.

What I wished to hold, I have to let go, and an undeserved boon forced itself on me. "

With a push of Theresa's hand, Wilhelm go of his own. "I leave you over completely," he said to the
Abbe, "what you decide about me, if I do not mean to me Felix need
to leave, so I'm happy to roam, everywhere and everything you think
is right, to do.

"

This statement immediately drew the abbe's plan: they should, he said, the Marchese can leave,
William was to wait for the message of the doctor, and then, if one considers have what to do,
can William to join him with Felix. He also accompanied by the Marquis under a pretext that
the bodies of the young friend to hold him not to travel would have to, besehn the sights of the city,
however. The Marquis went from not without repeated assurance of his lively gratitude, of which
the gifts he left behind and which consisted of jewelry, cut stones
and embroidered fabrics, a common enough Gave evidence.

William was now completely ready, and it was even more embarrassed that no messages would come
from the doctor, it was feared the poor would like a harp player accident have met to bisexual
time when one could hope, better him in quite a state to move. It dismissed the courier, who
had hardly ridden, on the evening of Doctors came in with a stranger, whose form and nature
of significant, serious, and strikingly was and no one knew. Both arrivals were silent for
a while still, and finally went the stranger on to Wilhelm, handed him her hand and said, "Do
you know your old friend any more? "It was the voice of the harp player, but his form did
not seem to trace uebriggeblieben be. He was in usual dress of a passenger, clean and decently
dressed, his beard was gone, his hair was seen in some art, and what it really was quite unrecognizable,
was that the trains on his face significant age no longer appeared. William hugged him with
the liveliest pleasure, and he was the others presented and behaved very sensibly and did not
know how he known the Society had become even more recently. "They will have patience with a man,"
she he continued with great composure, "who, he looks so grown up and, after a long illness only
as an inexperienced child enters the world. This brave man, I'm guilty of that I can again appear
in a human society. "

They welcomed him and the doctor at once led a walk to the talk abort
and divert the indifferent.

When they were alone, the doctor gave the following explanation: "The recovery of this man to us by
the strangest coincidence succeeded. We had him long after our moral convictions and physically treated,
it went up to a certain extent, quite well, but the fear of death was still big for him, and
his beard and his long gown he would not sacrifice ourselves; by the way, he took part in
the more mundane things, and his songs seemed like his Picturing back to life to approach. You
know, what a strange letter the priest I'd get from here. I came, I found our man completely
changed, he had voluntarily given away his beard, he had allowed his locks to a traditional form crop,
it usually required clothes and seemed at once a different person be.

These are the Collared Peccary, or Coyametl; and the White-lipped Peccary, or Tagassou.

For a long time these two species were confounded with each other; but it is now proved that
they are distinct--not only in size and colour, but to some extent also in their geographical
distribution, their haunts, and habits.

The Collared Peccary is of small stature: not larger than a half-grown Berkshire pig.  It is
thickly covered with hairy bristles of a greyish-brown colour, and has a whitish band or collar
around the neck-- from which circumstance it derives its trivial specific name.  Its geographical
range is more extensive than that of its congener.  It is found not only in South America,
but throughout the whole of Central and North America, as far as the borders of the United
States territory: in other words, the limits of its range are co-extensive with what was formerly
Spanish America.  It exists in Texas; and still further to the north-west, in New Mexico and
California--though nowhere to the east of the Mississippi river.  In Texas it is common enough;
and stories are related of many a redoubtable Texan hunter having been "tree'd"--that is, forced
to take shelter in a tree from a band of peccaries, whose rage he may have provoked while wandering
in their haunts, and too recklessly making use of his rifle.  The same is related as occurring
to South American hunters with the white-lipped peccaries--that have a similar habit of trooping
together in droves, and acting in concert, both for defence and attack, against the common enemy.

The chief points of distinction between the two species are in the size and colour.  The white-lipped
kind is much the larger--frequently weighing one hundred pounds--while a full-grown individual
of the collared peccary does not exceed in weight over fifty pounds.  The former are of a deeper
brown colour, want the white collar around the neck; but in its stead have a whitish patch
around the mouth or lips, from which also comes their specific appellation.  These are also
thicker and stouter, have shorter legs, and a more expanded snout.  They troop together in
larger droves, that often number a thousand individuals of all ages and sizes.  Thus united,
they traverse extensive districts of forest--the whole drove occupying an extent of a league
in length--all directed in their march by an old male, who acts as leader. Should they be impeded
in their progress by a river, the chief stops for a moment to reconnoitre; then plunges boldly
into the stream, followed by all the rest of the troop.  The breadth of the river, and the
rapidity of the current, seem to be but trifling obstacles to them; and are overcome easily,
since the peccaries are excellent swimmers.  They continue their onward march through the open
grounds; over the plantations, which, unfortunately for their owners, may chance to lie in
their way; and which they sometimes completely devastate, by rooting out the whole of the crops
of maize, potatoes, sugarcane, or manioc.  If they should meet with any opposition, they make
a singular noise-- chattering their teeth like castanets; and if a hunter should chance to
attack them when moving thus, he is sure to be surrounded and torn to pieces: unless he find
some tree or other convenient object, where he may make escape, by getting out of their reach.

The white-lipped peccaries are found in all the forests of South America--from the Caribbean
Sea to the Pampas of Buenos Ayres.  They are abundant in Paraguay; and Sonnini, the traveller,
has observed them in Guyana.  Others report their presence on the Orinoco and its tributaries--as
also on all the waters of the Amazon.  Most probably, it was from the number of these animals
observed upon its banks by the early travellers, that the last-mentioned river obtained one
of its Spanish names--the Rio Maranon--which signifies the "river of the wild hogs."

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

HORSES AND ASSES.

The Horse--par excellence the noblest of animals--is represented by only a limited number of
species; but, like other creatures domesticated by man, he is found of many different breeds
and varieties: too many to be minutely described in these pages.  Suffice it to say, that almost
every civilised nation possesses several kinds of horses--differing from one another in size,
shape, colour, and qualities: in size especially-- since this fine animal may be observed not
much bigger than a mastiff; while other members of his family attain almost to the dimensions
of an elephant!  Even savage tribes, both in Asia and America, are in possession of peculiar
breeds of horses; and it may be assumed as a fact, that more than a hundred varieties exist
upon the earth.  These have all been regarded as springing from one original stock; but here
again there is only vague conjecture; and it is far more probable, that the domesticated horses
are the descendants of several kinds originally distinct in their wild state.

There are wild horses at the present day in Asia, Africa, and America; but it is questionable
whether any of these are the descendants of an originally wild stock.  More likely they are
the progeny of horses escaped from the domesticated breeds.  Of course we refer to the true
horses of the genus equus; and not to the dziggetais, quaggas, and zebras--to which we shall
presently refer.  These last-mentioned kinds are still found wild, as they have ever been;
and, with one or two exceptions, none of their species have been tamed to the use of man.

In America--both in the northern and southern divisions of the continent--herds of wild horses
are numerous.  These have all sprung from individuals that escaped from their owners, and in
process of time have multiplied to a great extent.  Of course they could have no other origin:
since it is well-known that, previous to the time of Columbus, no animal of the horse kind
existed in America.  The wild horses now found there are descended then from a domestic breed;
and this breed has been easily ascertained to be that used by the Spaniards in their conquests
of Mexico and Peru.  It is a race known as the Andalusian horse--nearly allied to the Arabian--and
no doubt at an earlier period imported into the peninsula of Spain by the Moors.  These horses
are much smaller than the English hunter; but possess all the properties of a true horse--the
shape, action, etcetera--and cannot, therefore, be considered as mere ponies.  They are, in
reality, well-blooded horses, of small stature; and no breed could be better suited to the
climate of most parts of Spanish America, where they now run wild.

On the pampas of South America these horses exist in vast droves.  The Gauchos, a half-civilised
race of men, live amidst their herds, and hunt them chiefly for the hides.  They early learn
to capture and ride them; and a Gaucho is seldom seen off the back of his horse.  He can capture
and break one in in the course of an hour.  The flesh also serves him as an article of food.
Down as far as the Straits of Magellan the droves of wild horses are found.  There the native
Indians have tamed many of them--even the women and children going most of their time on horseback.
On the llanos, or great plains, that extend northward from the Amazon and Orinoco--that is,
in the provinces of Venezuela--other droves of wild horses exist; and these, along with half-wild
oxen, form the sole property and pursuit of a class of men called Llaneros, who in many respects
resemble the Gauchos.  Again, proceeding to North America, we find the same species of horse
running wild on the great plains to the north of Mexico; in California, and upon the prairies
east of the Rocky Mountains.  In Mexico Proper, as also in California, they are owned by great
landed proprietors; and are annually caught, branded, and sold. Many of these proprietors can
count from 10,000 to 20,000 head roaming within the boundaries of their estates, besides large
droves of horned cattle and mules.  In the vast regions between the settled parts of Mexico
and the frontier settlements of the United States, the wild horses are the property of no one,
but range freely over the prairies without mark or brand.  These are hunted and captured by
different tribes of Indians--Comanches, Pawnees, Sioux, Blackfeet, etcetera, who also possess
large numbers of them tamed and trained to various uses. Like the Gauchos and Llaneros of the
south, these Indians use the flesh of the horse for food, and esteem it the greatest delicacy!
Among some tribes, where the buffalo is not found, the horse takes the place of the latter
as an article of diet; and forms the principal article of subsistence of thousands of these
people.  Among most of the prairie tribes the chase of this animal, or the buffalo, is the
sole pursuit of their lives.

Still further north ranges the wild horse, even as far as the prairies extend; and among the
tribes of the Saskatchewan he is also found--used by them for the saddle, and also as a beast
of burden.  In these regions, however, the buffalo still exists in great numbers; and the horse,
besides being eaten himself, is also employed to advantage in the chase of this animal.

The wild horses of America are not all exactly of one breed.  Those of the Mexico-American
prairies, called by the Spaniards mustenos (mustangs), differ slightly from those found upon
the llanos of South America; and these again from the horses of the pampas, and the parameros
of Peru.  These differences, however, are but slight, and owing solely to climatic and other
little causes.  But the mustangs of the northern prairies have among them an admixture of breeds,
derived from American runaways along the borders of the Mississippi, and others escaped from
travellers on the prairies; and there have latterly been discovered mustangs of large size--evidently
sprung from the English-Arabian horse.

In the Falkland Islands the horse is also found in an untamed state. These were introduced
by the French in 1764; but have since become perfectly wild.  Strange to say, they are only
found in the eastern part of the island--although the pasture there is not more rich than in
the west, and there is no natural boundary between the two!

In Asia the horse runs wild in large herds--just as in America.  The range in which they are
found in this state is chiefly on the great plains, or steppes--stretching from the Himalaya
Mountains to Siberia. The Calmuck Tartars tame them; and possess vast droves, like the Gauchos
and Indians.  They also eat their flesh; and among many tribes of Tartars mare's milk is esteemed
the most delicious of beverages. Marble Statues
and busts were arranged on pedestals and in niches, and some seemed familiar to him. Lear Jugendeindruecke
laughed, not even in their smallest parts. He recognized a muse that his grandfather had heard,
not by their form and their value, but to a restored and arms to the newly translated pieces
of the garment. It was as if He lived a fairy tale. The child he was critical, he hesitated
on the steps and knelt down, as if he wanted to put it more convenient. But in fact he needed a moment's
rest. He could barely lift himself again. The servant wanted vorleuchtende relieve him of the child,
He could not let it away. Then he stepped into the vestibule, and to be greater still Astonishment,
he saw the familiar image of the sick king's son on the wall. He had hardly time to take a look
at the servant forced him through a few rooms in a cabinet. There, behind a light shades,
which it shadowed, sat a woman and read. "O that they would be!" he said to himself at this
crucial moment. He put down the child that seemed to wake up, and thought to approach the
lady, but the child fell asleep together, the woman got up and came towards him. The Amazone's
it! He could not talk, crashed to his knees and exclaimed, "She's the one!" He took her hand
and kissed it with infinite delight. The child was between them both on the carpet and slept
sweetly.

Felix was brought to the sofa, Natalie sat down with him, she was
called Wilhelm in the Chair sitting, who was standing at first.

She offered him some refreshment, which he refused, when he was just busy to insure that it
was she, and by the light shield shaded trains again watch closely and recognize itself. She told
him about Mignon's disease in general, that the child of a few deep feelings gradually will be consumed,
that with his great irritation, which it hid in a spasm to his poor heart often suffer violent
and dangerous, that this first element of life sometimes in unexpected Gemuetsbewegungen suddenly
stand still and no sign of healing Impulse to live in the bosom of the good child can be felt.
Be that frightened Convulsive past, then outward sign the power of nature back into violent
pulses and frighten the child now by excess, as it had previously suffered from want.

Wilhelm remembered such a frantic scene, and Natalie was referring to the doctor, the further talk
with him about the matter and the reason why his friend and benefactor
the child presently summoned, would provide circumstantial.

"A strange alteration" Natalie continued, "you will find in her, she is now in women's clothes,
in which otherwise they seemed to have such a great disgust. "

"How did you manage that?" asked Wilhelm.

"If it were desirable, we are guilty only to chance.

Listen to how it received is. You may know that I've been getting a number of young girls around me,
that Feelings I, as they grow up next to me, for good and right to want to make. Out of my
mouth they hear nothing but what I consider myself to be true, but I can not and will I do
not prevent that they do not hear too much from others, what a mistake, as prejudice gaeng in
the world is commonplace. Ask me about it, so I'm looking for as much as possible only is anzuknuepfen
those strange, indecent tag somewhere to a right to it by to make out anything useful, but inoperable.
For some time my girls had from the lips of many a peasant children of angels, the Bogeyman, the Holy
Christ heard that appear at certain times in person give presents, good and naughty children should
be punished. They had a suspicion that it would have to be disguised persons, what I do because
even encouraged, and without me much to interpretations involved, I undertook, to give them
at the first opportunity, such a spectacle. There was just that the birth of twin sisters,
who had always be very good, was close; I promised that this time they should bring an angel of
the little gifts they so well deserved. They were extremely curious about this phenomenon.
I had AA chosen for this role, and she was on the appointed day in a long, light, white Garment
dressed decent. There was no lack of a gold belt around the chest and an equal tiara in her
hair. At first I wanted to leave the wings but were the women they anputzten, a pair of large golden
wings, in which they legally wanted to show their art. Therefore replaced with a lily in one hand
and with a Basket in the other, the miraculous appearance in the middle of the girls and surprised
myself "There comes the angel!" I said. The children were all like back at last she exclaimed:
"It's AA!" and dared to but do not connect to the miraculous image closer.

"Here are your gifts," she said, and handed it to the basket. They gathered around her, you looked,
you felt, they questioned.

"Are you an angel?" asked one child.

"I wish I were," replied Mignon.

"Why do you wear a lily?"

"So pure and open my heart should be, then were I happy."

"How is it with the wings? Let's see them!"

"You imagine nicer that are not yet developed."

And they said much to any innocent, easy question.

As the curiosity of the little party was satisfied, and the impression of this phenomenon began
to be blunt, they wanted to undress her again.

She refused, took her harp, sat here on these high desk up and sang a song with incredible grace:

So
let me seem until I am, ye not my white dress!

I hurry from the beautiful earth to that long home.

There I shall rest for a brief silence, then we open the fresh look, then I let the pure Huelle,
the girdle and the wreath back.

And those heavenly beings, do not ask for man and woman, and no clothes, no Folds enclose the transfigured
body.

Although I lived without worry and effort, but I felt deep pain enough; ages ago Kummer I used to,
make me young again for ever!

I decided at once, "Natalie continued," let her dress and some to provide for the manner in which
it is now and where it seems to me, its nature has a very different
expression.

"

As it was already late, Natalie dismissed the newcomer who is not without some anxiety in separated
from it. "Is she married or not?" he thought to himself he had feared, whenever something was moving,
one door would like to open up and come join the husband. The servant, him took in his room,
removed more quickly than he had taken courage, after this to ask relationship. The anxiety kept him
awake for a while, and he busied to compare the image of the Amazon with the image of its new,
present-day girlfriend. They even did not coalesce with each other, that he had created were,
and that almost seemed to want him umschaffen.

Book VIII, 3 Chapter - 1

Chapter Three

The next morning, when everything was still and quiet, he went to look at the house. It was
the purest, most beautiful, dignified style, which he had seen. "It's true art," he exclaimed, "how
good society: it compels us to the most convenient way to measure
the acknowledge is formed by one and to our inner self.

"unbelievably pleasant was the impression the statues and busts of his grandfather made for him.
By request, he hurried to the Picture of the sick king's son meet, and he still found it charming
and touching. The Servant who opened several other rooms, he found a library, a natural history
collection a physical cabinet. He felt so strange to all of these
objects.

Felix however, was awake and in after him, the thought of how and when to get Theresa's letter
will, made him worry and he was afraid of the sight of Mignon, to some extent before the Natalie's
sight.

How unlike his present condition was those moments when he had sealed the letter to Theresa,
and with a glad heart is completely surrendered to a noble creature.

Natalie had to invite him for breakfast. He entered a room where several neatly dressed girl,
all, it seemed, under ten years, a table zurechtemachten, by an elderly person brought in different
kinds of drinks.

William gazed at a picture that hung over the sofa, with attention,
he had for Natalie recognize the image, any more than it wanted to
make satisfaction to him.

Natalie came in, and the similarity seemed to disappear. His consolation, it was a religious
cross on the Chest, and he looked at the same breast Natalie.

"I have here considered the portrait," he said to her, "and I wonder
how a painter can be both so true and so wrong.

The image you like in general say very good, but neither her features
are still your character.

"

"It is rather surprising," said Natalie, "that it resembles so much, for It is not even my picture,
it is the image of an aunt who was like me at their age, I was a child first. It is painted
as if they had approximately my age, and at the first Sight to see
everyone believes me.

They had to know this excellent person. I you owe so much. A very poor health, perhaps too
much employment with itself, taking a moral and religious anxiety that they let the world are not what
they would have under other circumstances. She was a light, only a few friends and I really shone.
"

"Waere is possible, answered Wilhelm, who had calmly for a moment, by now suddenly so many
circumstances it appeared coincident, "it is possible that those beautiful, beautiful soul, whose
silent confessions have been communicated to me, your Aunt was? "

"You have read the book?" asked Natalie.

"Yes!" said Wilhelm, "with the greatest participation and not without effect on my whole Life.
What I most flashed in her face, this document was, I would like to say, the cleanliness of
existence, not only of themselves, but also all that they surrounded the independence of its
nature and the impossibility of something to take into itself, what with the noble, loving mood
was not harmonious. "

"So you are," said Natalie, "cheaper, so I may say, just against this beautiful nature than
many others to whom you have also notified of this manuscript. Every educated Man knows how much
he has to fight for himself and others with a certain brutality,
how much cost him his education and how much he still thinks in some
cases only of themselves and forget what he owes others.

How often does the good man to accusations that He did not act tender enough, and yet, if now
a beautiful nature is too delicate; is all too faithfully, yes, if you will, is about to buy,
for this seems to be no to tolerance, no patience to be in the world. Nevertheless, the people
of this kind unless us, what are the ideals at home, role models, not to imitate, but to emulate.
We laugh about the cleanliness of the Holla camp followers, but would be girlfriend Theresa,
what they is, if you are not a similar idea in their household always envisioned? "

"I think so," exclaimed Wilhelm, "in Theresa's friend Natalie those before me, at which the heart
of that delicious relatives go, that Natalie, the youth in such a sympathetic, so loving and
helpful was! Only from such a race was such a natural ! Arise What a view opened before me,
I at one time your ancestors and Full circle, you hear about in look. "

"Yes!" Natalie said, "you could in a sense, not better informed of us than through the top
of our aunt admittedly has its inclination to me they too good said of the child can be. When one
speaks of a child, it is called never the object, Only his hopes out.

"

William had, however, quickly rethought that it now also Lothario earlier origin and Youth was
informed, the beautiful countess seemed to him as a child with the beads of her aunt around the
neck, and he had these beads have been as close as her tender, loving lips to his family bowed
down, he examined these beautiful memories with other thoughts remove. He ran through the friendships
that had given him those letters. "So I'm for, "he exclaimed," in the house of the worthy uncle!
There is no house, there is a Temple, and you are the worthy priest, even of genius itself, and
I'm going to the impression remember last night's life, when I came
in and the old art paintings from the early Youth stood before me.

I remembered the pitying marble statues in Mignons Song, but those pictures were not about to
grieve me, they saw me with great seriousness and concluded at my earliest time immediately
at this moment. That our old Family treasure, the joy of my grandfather, I find here among
so many others paying homage to works of art set up, and me, the
darling of the nature of that good old Man had made me unworthy I
think now this, O God! in what form, in any society!

"

The female youth had gradually abandoned the room to their small employment . Nachzugehn William,
who was left alone with Natalie, had to her his last words explain more clearly. The discovery
that an estimated portion of the established art his grandfather had angehoert, was a very cheerful,
sociable atmosphere. As established by manuscript that had been introduced to the house, he found
himself now as it were in his Inheritance again. Now he wished to see Mignon, the friend asked
him to be so long to wait until the doctor who was called into the neighborhood zurueckkaeme again.
Man can easily imagine that it was the same small, active man we already know and whose the
"Confessions of a beautiful soul" is mentioned.

"I am," continued William, "in the middle of that family are, so I suppose the Abbe, whose writing
those mentioned, also the wonderful, inexplicable man I in the had found her brother's house
after the most extraordinary events? Perhaps give Me some better insight about him? "

Natalie said: "over it would be much to say, what I am teaching at the most accurate, is the influence
he has had on our education.

He was, at least for a time, convinced that education must join only on the inclination, as
he now thinks I can not say. He claimed: the first and the last was in human activity, and one
can not do without the facility to have this without the instinct that was driving us to it. "Man
to exist," he would say, "that poets are born, it is given in all
the arts , because you have those effects and because of human nature
hardly seems aped can be, but if you think about it, so every, even
the slightest ability are innate, and there is no unlimited ability.

Only our ambiguous, scattered Education makes people uncertain, it excites desires, rather than
to stimulate impulses, and instead aufzuhelfen the real systems, it addresses the search for
objects that so often with nature that strives for them, do not coincide. A child, a young man,
to go astray on their own ways, are dearer to me than some, the right on foreign routes transform.
Find those, either by itself or through guidance, the right way, the is the one who is according
to their nature, they will never leave him, rather than having them
every Moment in danger, to shake off a foreign yoke and an unconditional
freedom to pass.

"

"It is strange," said Wilhelm, "that this remarkable man, I participated in and me, it seems, in
his own way, if not passed, at least for a while has strengthened in my errors. How will he
answer it in future, he related multi me the best as it had, I probably expect with patience.
"

"I was not about the cricket if it is to complain," said Natalie, "for I am certainly moved among
my siblings better off.

Also, I do not see how Lothario my brother could have been designed nice, just might have my
good sister, the countess, should be treated differently, maybe they
would have their natural something more serious and can inspire strength.

What will become of brother Frederick, can to think not, I fear he will be the victims of these
pedagogical experiments ".

"You do not have a brother?" cried Wilhelm.

"Yes!" Natalie said, "and a very funny, frivolous nature, and since he is not held, had in
the world driving around, I know not loosen, which in this loose, Beings should be. I have not
seen him for a long time. The only thing I'm relieved that the Abbe and anyway the company of
my brother are always informed where he is and what he does. "

William was just about to explore both Natalie's thoughts about these paradoxes to desire and about
the mysterious company of her insights, as the doctor came in and immediately after the first
welcome to speak of Mignon's condition began.

Natalie, who then took the Felix by the hand, said she would take him to AA and the child prepare
for the appearance of his friend.

The doctor was now alone with Wilhelm, and continued: "I have wonderful things to you That tell
you little suspect. Natalie leaves us room and we talk more freely about things , Which might, if
I could find that balance it by yourself, but in their presence are not treated as free are likely.
The peculiar nature of the good child of the Now the question is, is almost only from a deep
longing, a desire to their country see again, and the desire for you, my friend, I would almost
say that Terrestrial only to her, both appointed only in an infinite
distance, both objects are inaccessible to this single mind.

It may be in the area of ​​Milan at home and has been kidnapped in a very early age by a company
Seiltaenzer their parents. Distance you can not learn from it, partly because she was too young to
exact location and name to be able to specify, but especially because
she has taken an oath that no living human being her apartment and
coming closer to call.

For it is precisely those people who in the confusion and found that your apartment as accurately
described with such entreaties, her home to lead, they took away with him all the more hasty and
joked at night in the hostel because they believed the child to sleep
on, about the good fishing and swore that the way back should not
find it again.

Then was the poor creature a horrible despair, in the least, the
Mother of God appeared to him and assured him that it focuses its may.

It vowed to himself to a sacred oath that in future no one Trust
no one tell her story and in the hope of direct divine Help there
would die and live.

Even this, what I am telling you this, has it Natalie not explicitly familiar, our esteemed
friend has statements from individuals, from Songs and children's
indiscretions, that reveal exactly what they want to conceal, ranked
together.

"

Wilhelm could now explain to many a song, many a word of this good
child.

He asked his friend, most urgently, it's nothing to withhold from
him what the strange chants and confessions of the individual soul
had been known.

"Oh!" the doctor said, "You are preparing for a strange confession to a story where you remember
without having to have much interest, which, I fear, for death and
life This good creature is crucial. "

"Let me hear," said Wilhelm,
"I am extremely impatient."

Book VIII, 3 Chapter - 2

"Remember,"
said the doctor, "a secret, nocturnal visit to female the performance
of "Hamlet"? "

"Yes, I remember the good!" cried Wilhelm ashamed,
"but I did not believe in this moment to be remembered. "

"You know
who it was?"

"No, you scare me! For heaven's sake do not yet Mignon
Who was it? Tell me's!"

"I do not know myself."

"So do not Mignon?"

"No,
certainly not! But AA was about to join you can, and had made an angle
with horror to see that forestalled their rival. "  Indeed, some naturalists make no distinction at all,
but class both under the same genus.  This, however, is not a correct view, since there is
an essential difference in the nature of these two animals, notwithstanding the frequent resemblance
in their outward appearance.  It was upon this very point--their nature--that the renowned
Buffon relied in separating them; he alleging that the sheep differed only from the goats in
the greater gentleness and timidity of their disposition.  It is true that this is not a very
scientific mode of classification; yet, strange to say, it is held to be one of the safest
guides for distinguishing the one from the other.  Of course, it can only be relied upon when
taken in connection with other indices of a physical character.  Perhaps you may fancy that
goats and sheep may be distinguished from each other by the "coat"--the former having a hairy
coat, while that of the latter is woolly.  For you who reside in the British Islands, this
mark would stand good enough, since British goats are in reality clothed with hair, and British
sheep with wool; but in many other countries the case is not only different, but directly the
reverse, the goats being woolly, while the sheep are hairy!

It may be further remarked, that there are both goats and sheep so very nearly akin to antelopes,
that it is again difficult to draw a line of distinction among the three.  Indeed, there is
a section of the antelope tribe, called the goat-antelopes, so called on account of this very
approximation.  Several species of antelopes--as the chamois of the Alps, and others--are by
many naturalists classed as goats; and the bighorn of the Rocky Mountains, which is a true
wild sheep, is also classed by some zoologists as a species of antelope.

The goats approach nearer to the nature of antelopes than do the sheep. In fact, the mountain
antelopes are extremely like goats in their nature and habits.  On this account the latter
are supposed to stand between the sheep and antelopes.

We shall separate the goats into two kinds: first, the tame or domesticated goats; and secondly,
the wild ones.  Of the domesticated kind there is an endless list of varieties; and upon the
question as to which of the wild species was the parent stock, thousands of opinions have been
expressed, and long treatises written.  It is just as with the dog, and other domestic animals--no
one can certainly say what species was first introduced to the society of human beings; and
it is far more likely that it was not any one wild species, but several, and belonging to different
countries, that gave origin to the numerous kinds of goats now in the possession of man.

It would be a troublesome task to describe these numerous varieties. Every country has its
kind; and, in fact, every district of country can show a breed distinct from all the others.
Instead of specifying each breed, we shall only mention a few of the more noted and valuable sorts.

The Thibet or Cashmere goat is perhaps the most celebrated of the tribe; its celebrity arising
from the fineness of its wool, out of which are manufactured the costly Cashmere shawls.  An
attempt was made to introduce this variety into England; but it has not been successful, though
the cause of its failure has not been communicated to the public. We can easily find a very
good reason in the fact, that a first-class Cashmere shawl requires a year in its manufacture;
and therefore, if an English weaver were to have the raw material for nothing, his labour would
amount to more than the shawl was worth in the market!  It is just the same with the culture
of the tea-plant.  There are many districts in America where the tea-tree would flourish as
well as in China; but what would be the use of growing it there, since the labour required
to bring it to a state of readiness for the teapot would also raise it to an unsaleable price!
These are the important principles that people who talk of protective duties entirely lose
sight of.

The best Cashmere goats are brought from the Thibet country; and then wool sells for a rupee
a pound in Cashmere itself.  It is spun by the women, and afterwards dyed.  The persons employed
in making the shawls sit on a bench around the frame.  If it be a pattern shawl, four persons
labour at its manufacture; but a plain one requires only two. The borders are marked with wooden
needles, there being a separate needle for each colour; and the rough side of the shawl is
uppermost while it is being made.

The best shawls are manufactured in the kingdom of Cashmere itself, though many are made in
other Oriental countries, and also in France; and the wool of several varieties of the goat,
besides the Thibet, is used in the manufacture.  In Cashmere alone 30,000 shawls are made annually--giving
employment to about 50,000 people.

The Angora goat is another noted variety--esteemed for its fine silky hair.  It inhabits the
countries of Angora and Beibazar, in Asiatic Turkey, where it is kept in large flocks, the
goatherds bestowing much care upon the animals--frequently combing and washing them!

The Syrian goat, remarkable for its excessively long ears, is reared in Aleppo and other parts
of Asiatic Turkey, and is kept for the use of its milk, with which many of the towns are supplied.

There are other varieties less noted, among which may be mentioned the Spanish goats, without
horns; the Juda, or African goat, with two hairy wattles under the chin; and the pretty little
Whidaw goat--also a small African variety.  There is also a Nepaul goat, and one belonging
to the Deccan, called Bukee--a very large gaunt fellow, with long shaggy hair. The Irish goat,
too, is a peculiar variety of the common or domestic species.

Tame goats are distributed very generally over all the Old World.  They thrive well in the
cold climate of Norway; and are equally at home in the hottest parts of Africa and the Indian
islands.  In America they are rare, in the territory inhabited by the Anglo-Saxon races--it
not being considered a valuable speculation to "raise" them; but throughout the Spanish territories,
both in North and South America, large flocks may be seen, and the wild goats of Juan Fernandez
are descendants of these Spanish-American domesticated breeds.

The species of true wild goats are not numerous, but are very generally distributed over the
world--particularly over the old continents.  In America only one wild species is indigenous:
that is, the Rocky Mountain goat.  Some authors have asserted that this species is not indigenous
to America; but most certainly this statement is an error.  From its peculiar appearance, as
well as from the locality in which it is found, it could never have sprung from any known domesticated
breed.  It is a long-haired creature, snow-white in colour, and with very short straight horns.
Its hair is of silky hue and fineness, and hangs so low that the animal appears as if without
legs. Its skin makes one of the most beautiful of saddle covers; and for this purpose it is
used; but the animal itself being rare, and only found in the most remote and inaccessible
regions of the Rocky Mountains, a good skin is as costly as it is valuable.  It is met with
in the great central range, from Northern Mexico, as far north as the Rocky Mountains extend;
and it is supposed also to exist among the higher summits of the Californian mountains.

The Ibex is another species of wild goat, somewhat celebrated.  It is the wild goat of the
European Alps, where it is known by the Germans as Stein-boc, and as Bouquetin among the French.

Another ibex belongs to the Caucasian Mountains, called Zebudor, or Hach; and still another
kind inhabits the Himalayas, where it passes under the name of Sakeen.  There is also an ibex
in Siberia; and still another in the Pyrenees.

In addition to these, there is a large wild goat in the loftiest Himalayas, known as the Jaral,
or Tur; and another in India called the Jungle Kemas, or Wild Sheep of Tenasserim.  In Northern
Africa, again, there are several species of native wild goats, as the Jaela in Egypt, and the
Walie of the African-Arab countries; but in South Africa no indigenous wild goats have been
observed--their place in that region being supplied by their near congeners the Klipspringers,
and other rock-loving antelopes.

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

ANTELOPES.

The Antelope tribe is so closely related to that of the Deer, that it is often difficult to
distinguish one from the other.  Indeed, certain species of antelopes are more like to certain
species of deer, than either to their own kind.  This is more especially true of the females,
where the horns--the chief point of distinction--are absent.  In such cases, even the accomplished
naturalist is perplexed by the close resemblance--which extends beyond mere outward appearance,
and is found throughout all their habits.

It may be remarked, however, that the different species of antelopes differ not only in size,
shape, and colour, but quite as much in their modes of existence.  Some, like the African Eland
and the Nyl-ghau of India, are clumsy creatures both in shape and movements; while others,
as the Gazelles, are models of symmetry and grace.  Some are dwellers in the arid recesses
of the desert; while others affect the most fertile pastures, or the deepest shades of the
thick forest.  Others, again, find their home amidst the sedge on the banks of lakes and rivers,
passing half their time in the water; while several species--as the Chamois of Europe and the
Klipspringer of South Africa--dwell in the mountains, making their way among cliffs and ravines,
with an agility scarce equalled by any other animal.  Again, some species are gregarious, and
herd together in vast flocks; while others are found only in small droves, or families, and
not a few species lead what is termed a solitary life.  In all these respects the antelopes
resemble the deer; and, indeed, no very marked distinction can be pronounced between the two.
As already remarked, the main point of difference, upon which scientific naturalists rely,
is found in the horns; those of the deer being termed osseous, or bony, while these appendages
in the antelopes are true horns--that is, of the same material as the horns of oxen.  Furthermore,
the horns--or rather antlers--of the deer are caducous, shedding annually; while those of the
antelopes are persistent, remaining throughout the life-time of the animal--as with goats,
sheep, and oxen.

The antelopes appear to stand, as it were, in a central position, surrounded by these three
last-mentioned groups; in other words, there are species of antelopes that can scarcely be
distinguished from goats, others equally like sheep, and others that come very near being true
oxen!  Nay, further, there are one or two species--the Gnus of South Africa--that bear a considerable
resemblance to horses!

At one time the antelopes were all classed in a single genus; but since the species have increased--or
rather the knowledge of them--this arrangement has been deemed inconvenient; and the systematic
naturalists have separated them into a great many genera--twenty or more--and to these genera
they have given such a variety of pedantic titles, that it would be wellnigh impossible for
one man's memory to retain them all.  I do not hesitate to say, that it would have been much
wiser to have retained the nomenclature of the old naturalists, and called all these animals
antelopes--leaving the specific appellations to distinguish them from one another.

In a popular sketch it is necessary to treat them in this way; for to give even a list of the
generic characters of the systematic naturalists would occupy the whole of our space.

First, then, of the number of these ruminants--that is, the number of kinds.  In this respect
they exceed the deer tribe, amounting in all to between eighty and ninety distinct kinds. 
Perhaps there are one hundred species upon the whole earth, since several new ones have been
recently discovered in the interior regions of Asia and Africa.

It is scarcely necessary to say that Africa is the great head-quarters of the antelope tribe--more
than half the species belonging to that continent.  In number of individuals, too, it far excels;
the vast herds of these animals that roam over the karoos and great plains of South Africa
consisting sometimes of numbers countless as locusts or the sands of the sea!  Asia, however,
is not without its share of species; and especially that portion of it--the Oriental region--so
rich in other mammalia.  In Australia no antelope has yet been found; nor even in the large
island of Madagascar, so African in its character.  Only one representative of the antelopes
is indigenous to the New World--the Prong-horn of the prairies; for the Bighorn of the Rocky
Mountains is a sheep, not an antelope.  To say the least, this is a natural fact of some singularity;
for from all we know of the habits of these animals, no country could be better suited to their
existence than the great prairies of North America, or the llanos of the Orinoco, the paramos
of Brazil, and the pampas of Buenos Ayres and Patagonia.  And yet on these South American plains
no animal of the genus antelope has yet been discovered;--and on the prairies, as already mentioned,
only one species, the Prong-horn.

It is worthy of remark, also, that in Africa, where the antelopes most abound, no deer are
found to exist in the few African species of the latter being denizens only of the extreme
north of Africa, where that continent approximates in character to the southern countries of
Europe.

In Europe there are two species--the well-known Chamois of the Alps, and the Saiga of Eastern
Europe, which last is also an Asiatic animal.

In describing the different species--and we can only say a word or two of each--we shall class
them, not according to generic distinctions, but rather by their geographical distribution;
and we shall begin with the Antelopes of Africa.

Of these the Eland is the largest (as it also is the largest of antelopes), being sometimes
of the size and weight of a full-grown horse!  It is an animal of rather an ungainly appearance;
but its beautiful buff colour and mild disposition make up for its ungraceful shape; and it
is scarcely ever out of good condition.  Its home is Southern Africa, where it is still found
in large herds; and its flesh affords a plentiful subsistence both to travellers and the half-savage
natives of the land.

Hunting the eland is a common pastime; and no craft is required to insure success, since these
creatures are almost as tame as domestic cattle; so tame that the horseman usually rides into
the middle of the drove, and, singling out the fattest bull, shoots him down without any difficulty.
The eland thrives well in England; and Dr Livingstone remarks it strange that it has not long
since been introduced to our pastures--since its flesh is better than beef, and the animal
itself is as large as an ox.

The Gingi Jonga is a distinct variety of the eland, found in Western Africa.

The Koodoo is another large species, of which South Africa is the home. This is remarkable
for a noble appearance; but its most striking characteristic is its magnificent horns--each
of which is four feet in length, sweeping widely outwards in an elegant spiral curvature. 
The koodoo loves the shade of the forest, and especially delights to dwell on the banks of
rivers--taking freely to the water and swimming well.

The Gnu next merits attention.  In point of fact this is the most singular of the whole genus--being
that which in many respects resembles the horse.  There are two kinds, both belonging to South
Africa, and known as the Gnu and Brindled Gnu.  When seen galloping at a distance, they bear
a marked resemblance to quaggas, or wild horses.  They live in extensive herds on the karoos;
and are hunted by the natives for their skins--out of which the Kaffirs make their karosses.
Their flesh is eaten; though it is not so much esteemed as that of some other antelopes.

The Oryx, or Gemsbok, is a middle-sized species, dwelling in the same neighbourhood with the
gnus.  It is a heavy, stout animal, with a long bunch tail, and a pair of tapering slender
horns, almost perfectly straight, and sweeping back towards the shoulders.  It is truly a creature
of the open desert plains; and can go for a long time without water.  It is bold and dangerous--especially
when wounded--and will give battle to the hunter even, it is said, when that hunter chances
to be the lion himself!

The true Oryx, or Milk-white Antelope, mentioned by early writers, is a kindred species to
the Gemsbok; and is found in Northern Africa--in Sennaar, Nubia, Abyssinia, and Senegal.  This
last is a celebrated species, on account of the supposition that it is the animal figured on
the temples of Egypt, and known as the Unicorn.  It would not be difficult, I imagine, to point
out the absurdity of this belief; and to prove that the Unicorn of the ancients was either
the Gnu of South Africa, or an allied species--supposed to exist at the present time in the
inter-tropical region of the same continent.

A third species of oryx, the Beisa, inhabits Abyssinia.

The Addax is a large, heavily-formed antelope, with spiral horns and ox-like appearance, inhabiting
the greater part of the Central African region.  It frequents sandy plains, and is noted for
its broad hoofs, which seem designed to prevent it from sinking in the soft yielding sand of
the desert.  The addax is not gregarious, living in pairs or families.

One of the handsomest of South African antelopes is the Water Buck, a fine large species, with
long, widely-spreading horns.  It is called Water Buck on account of its habit of frequenting
the marshy banks of rivers and lakes, where it spends most of its time half immersed in the water!

The Lechee is another species, allied to this, and of very similar habits; and two, if not
three species of water antelopes have been lately discovered by Livingstone and other South
African explorers.  The Sing-sing is an antelope belonging to Western Africa.  The English
on the Gambia call it the "Jackass Deer," from its resemblance to a donkey. The negroes believe
that its presence has a sanitary effect upon their cattle; and hardly a flock is seen without
having one or two sing-sings along with it.  A similar fancy is entertained in our own country
in regard to the common goat--many people keeping one in their stables, under the belief that
it is beneficial to the health of the horses!

Another Sing-sing is the Equitoon, or Kob, of Senegal--often confounded with the former species.

A very beautiful antelope is the Blue buck, or Blauwboc of the Cape colonists.  It is a large,
bold animal, with horns ringed, and gently curving backwards.  Its skin is jet black; and it
is this colour reflected through the ashy-grey hair that gives the animal that purplish or
blue tint, whence it derives its name.  It is found in small troops on the plains north of
Kurrichane; and when wounded, or in the rutting season, the males are dangerous creatures.
Another similar species, but larger, is the Tah-kaitze, which is plentiful in the country of
the Bechuanas.  It is so ferocious in its disposition, that the native hunters fear to attack
it with the asseghai; but prefer capturing it in pitfalls.

The Black buck is a species of similar character and habits; and in Senegal there is one, not
unlike the foregoing, known among the French as vache-brune, and called by the Mandingoes white
mouth.

The Pallah is another fine species of South African antelope.  Its horns are of the lyrate
form, and its colour a bright rufous.  It is on this account known among the Dutch colonists
as the Rooye-boc (Red buck).  It runs in small troops, and is found in the country of the Bechuanas,
who hunt it for its flesh.

The Stein-boc is one of the slenderest and most graceful of antelopes. It lives upon stony
plains and in mountain valleys in South Africa-- hence its name of stein-boc, or stone buck.
It is very swift, and, when at full speed, will often spring over fifteen feet at a single
leap.  Its flesh is much prized, and on this account it is hunted eagerly by the natives; so
that, although one of the swiftest of animals, it is now rare in most parts of the Cape colony.

The Grys-boc is a closely allied species, but not so elegantly formed, nor yet so swift.  It
hides when closely pursued--thrusting its head into a bush, or squatting like a hare in her
form.  The stein-boc has a similar habit.

The Bleek-boc, or Ourebi, is one of those antelopes which have the curious appendages upon
the knees called brushes.  It is a large animal, and its flesh is eaten by the Kaffirs, in
whose country it is chiefly found.  A very similar species, called the gibari, exists in Northern
Africa--Abyssinia--and also on the western coast.

Of all the South African antelopes, perhaps none is more known and admired than the Spring-boc
(springbuck).  Its name is derived from a curious habit the animal has of, every now and then,
springing upward from the ground, while going at full speed across the plains.  This leap is
sometimes made to the height of many feet, in an almost perpendicular direction, and apparently
without any other motive than for amusement! The spring-bucks are eminently gregarious; indeed,
they may be said to swarm.  Herds have been met with, numbering as many as 50,000 individuals,
migrating from one part of the country to the other, and paying but little heed to the crowds
of hyenas, wild dogs, and other predatory creatures, who keep them company only to destroy
and devour them.

The Klipspringer is a small antelope that inhabits the most inaccessible mountains of Southern
Africa; and, like its near congener, the chamois of the Alps, is as much at home on the narrow
ledges of cliffs as its kindred are upon the open plains.  It is a long-haired, shaggy little
creature; but its long hair does not protect it from the bullet of the hunter; and its young
frequently fall victims to the eagle, and the great lammer-geyer vulture, which also dwells
among these mountains.

In addition to those described, there are many other species of antelopes in Africa.  The Duyker-boc,
or Diving-buck--so called from its habit of ducking or diving under the bushes when pursued--is
a Cape species; and there is another diving-buck, called the Black-faced; and still another
of these bush antelopes, termed Burchell's bush-boc.  Then there is the Four-tufted antelope
of Senegal; the Red-crowned bush-boc, also of Western Africa; and, belonging to the same region,
the White-backed bush-boc.  In the Island of Fernando Po there is found the Black-striped bush-boc;
and in Abyssinia, the Madoqua, or Abyssinian bush-goat, of a yellow colour.  The Bay bush-buck
and Bay bush-goat are two species described as natives of Sierra Leone; while the Black bush-boc,
of a sooty black colour, is found on the coast of Guinea.

The Coquetoon is a species of a deep-reddish bay colour, belonging to Western Africa; and on
the Senegal and Gambia we meet with another sooty species, called the Guevei.  At Port Natal,
in South Africa, there is a red species called the Natal bush-boc; and the Kleene-boc, a diminutive
little creature, only about twelve inches in height--a very pigmy among the antelopes--also
belongs to the same region.  Several other small species--or pigmy antelopes, as they are termed--are
found along the west coast of Africa, viz., the Black-rumped guevei of Fernando Po; the Grisled
guevei of Sierra Leone; and the White-footed guevei of the same region.  The little creature
known as the Royal antelope, or Guinea-musk, is a native of Guinea.  Still others in South
Africa are the Ree-boc and the Reed-boc--the latter deriving its name from its habit of frequenting
the reeds that grow along the banks of the South African rivers.  In the Island of Zanzibar
there is a very small species of antelope; and another found in Abyssinia, and called also
the Madoqua, is said to be the smallest of all horned animals--being not so large as an English
hare!

In North Africa--in the Sahara Desert--exists a large species, called by the Arabs the Wild
Ox.  It is one of the clumsiest in shape of the whole tribe.  In the south two kinds are near
akin to it--the Harte-beest or Secaama, and the Sassaby or Bastard harte-beest.  The Korrigun
is another of these large antelopes, belonging to Western Africa; and the Bonte-boc and Bles-boc
are two similar kinds, existing in the country of the Hottentots.  The Bosch-boc, or Bush-goat,
is still another of the southern antelopes, which derives its name from its dwelling-place--the
bushy thickets--out of which it never shows itself; and, in addition to all these, there is
the Decula of Abyssinia, the Guib of the western coast, the Ingala of Natal, and the Broad-horned
antelope of the Bight of Biafra.

We have not yet mentioned the Gazelles, which are, perhaps, the most interesting of all the
antelope tribe.  It is not necessary to describe their forms, or dilate upon the gracefulness
of their movements and appearance.  Their beautiful eyes have been a theme for the admiration
of all ages.  We shall only remark here, that there are several species of antelopes called
gazelles, and that they are all natives of Africa. There is the Dorcas gazelle of Egypt, Barbary,
and Asia Minor; the Isabella gazelle of Egypt and Kordofan; the Mhorr of Western Africa; the
Abyssinian mhorr of the eastern parts of the continent; the Andora of Sennaar, Dongola, and
Kordofan; and, lastly, the Korin.  These are all gazelles; and it is believed that several
other species may yet be found in the interior parts of Africa.  Such is the list of African
antelopes.

With regard to the Asiatic species, we can only find space to give their names, and point out
the localities they inhabit.

The Nyl-ghau claims to be mentioned first, as it is one of the largest antelopes known.  It
inhabits the dense forests of India, and is a creature of interesting and singular habits.
The Goral and Serow are also two large species inhabiting the Himalayas--especially in the
kingdom of Nepaul--while the Chousinga is a denizen of the wooded plains of Bengal, Behar,
and Orissa.  Two others, Chousingas, are the Rusty red and Full horned, both natives of India;
and the Jungliburka, a species found in the Bombay Presidency.  In Persia we find the well-known
Sasin, or common antelope, as it is usually called; and in the Oriental Islands, Sumatra furnishes
us with the Cambing outan, and Japan with the Japanese goat antelope.  The Mahrattas have the
Chikara, or Ravine-deer, a species peculiar to the rocky hills of the Deccan.  China is not
without its representative in the Whang-yang, or yellow-goat, which also inhabits the arid
deserts of Central Asia, Thibet, and Southern Siberia. It is up to you, to me this to take
bottles, and you will fall back without me hope in my old state again . See The feeling that it would
be desirable, ended the sufferings of this earth by death to see, put me first on the road to
recovery, and soon it was the thought that they to terminate a voluntary death, and I took away
with this view, the glass and the Opportunity to lift immediately the great pain for ever gave
me strength, pain to endure, and so have I, since I have the Talisman, through me the closeness
of death again pushed back into life. Do not worry, "he said," that I do use it, but you decide,
as a connoisseur of the human heart, me by introducing me to the independence of life for stakeholders,
to make the first right of life dependent. "After careful consideration Did we not continue in him, and
he now leads a solid geschliffnen Glasflaeschchen this poison as the antidote to the weirdest.
"

They informed the doctor of all that had been discovered, however, and it was decided observed
against Augustin the deepest silence. The Abbe made up his mind he does not to be by his side
and him on the good path which he had entered to continue.

Wilhelm, however, should complete the journey through Germany with the Marchese. It seemed
instill possible, Augustine a tendency to his own country again,
so they wanted to Explore the state of his relatives, and William
it was his family back out.

This had now made every preparation for his journey, and when it seemed wonderful in the beginning, that
Augustine was delighted when he heard how his old friend and benefactor at once should remove
it, yet the Abbe soon discovered the reason for this strange Gemuetsbewegung.

Augustine was his old fear he had before Felix, and wished not overcome the boy to see the sooner the better
away.

Now were gradually so many people arrived that they were in the castle and in the Seitengebaeuden
almost all could be accommodated, more so than at first so you do not like to receive had made
many guests the facility. We ate breakfast, we dined together and would have likes persuaded that
you are living in a fun match, though in silence the minds apart longing to a certain extent.
Therese was sometimes Lothario, nor more often out riding alone, they had in the neighborhood have
all the farmers and women farmers know, it was her housekeeping principle, and they did not
like are wrong, that one with neighbors and neighbors on the best terms and always in a perpetual Gefaelligkeitswechsel
must stand. Of a connection between her and Lothario did not even talk to be that two sisters
had much to say, the Abbe seemed to handle the harp search, Jarno had with the doctor Frequent
conferences, held on to Friedrich Wilhelm; and Felix was everywhere, where he was well. So united
is also the most part, the couples on the walk by the company separated, and if they had to
be together then one quickly took refuge in his music, in order to
connect all by itself every reproduced itself.

Suddenly, the Company increased the count to pick up his wife and, it seemed, to take a solemn
leave of his worldly relatives. Jarno hastened to contrary to the car, and when the incoming
asked what he finds for company, said that in a moment of great humor, which took him more when
he perceived the Count was: "You will find all the nobility of the world together, Marquis, Marquis,
my lords and barons, It has only been missing for a count. "So we went up the stairs, and William
was the first person to entgegenkam him in the vestibule. "My Lord!" said the count on him
to French, after he had considered him a moment, "I am delighted to find a mate unexpectedly
to renew, for I would have to be wrong a lot when I do not in the wake of Prince should have seen
in my castle. "-" I was lucky, your Excellency then come up, "said Wilhelm," only you do me
too much credit if you take me for a Englishmen, and may keep the first rank, I am a German, and
- although a very brave young man, "Jarno was one once. The count looked at Wilhelm with a
smile and was just some say, than the rest of the company came up and greeted him in the friendliest.
They apologized that they did not immediately can tell a decent room, and promised to provide
the necessary space ungesaeumt.

"Hurray!" he said smiling, "I see well that you have left up to chance, the Furierzettel to make,
with caution and arrangement, as there is not much possible! Now I ask you touched me a slipper
from the spot, otherwise, I see well, there is a big mess. Everyone will stay uncomfortable,
and no man for my sake, perhaps even a Hour. They have witnessed, "he said Jarno," and you, Mister,
"as he to Wilhelm objected, "how many people I have then placed comfortably in my castle.
Man give me the list of persons and servants, one to show me how anyone presently quartered,
I want to make a Dislokationsplan that with the least effort anyone find a furnished apartment
and that space will still remain for a guest who adjusted zufaelligerweise we could. "

Jarno was once the adjutant of the count, he gave all the necessary notes and had the most
fun in his own way when he could confuse the old man sometimes. This soon won a great triumph.
The facility was finished, he had in his Leave the presence of the names over all doors, and you
could not deny that with little Circumstances and their subsequent modifications, the purpose
was fully achieved. Also, it had among other things, Jarno so conducted that the persons in the
present moment an interest in each other took residents.

After everything was set up, the Count said Jarno: "Help me because on the track the young man
whom you call and there should be the champion a German. "Jarno was silent still, for he knew
quite well that the Earl was one of those people who, if they ask, really want to teach, also drove
this, without waiting for answer, in his speech continued: "She had him at that time and presented
on behalf of the Prince's well recommended. If his Mother was also a German, so I stick to it
that his father is an Englishman, and Although capable of: he wanted the English blood to calculate
everything in the last thirty years German veins flows around! I will not continue to insist,
you always have such Family secrets;. But I will be tying up in such cases, "Then told He
still different, which at that time should proceed with Wilhelm in his castle, what Jarno also
silent, although the count was quite erroneous, and Wilhelm with a young Englishmen in the
wake of Prince confused more than once. The good Lord had in early times had an excellent memory
and was still proud to be the least circumstances to be able to remember his youth and now he determined
but with wonderful certainty bisexual as combinations and fables true to it with increasing weakness
of his memory his imagination had once affected to. Besides, he was very mild and pleasant become, and
his presence seemed quite favorable to the Company. He demanded that you should read something
useful together, and even he sometimes gave to small games he, if not play along, but conducted
with great care, and as they are about his Condescension twisted, he said it was the duty of
everyone who is in essentials removed from the world that he indifferent things in her more
junction.

William had in these games more than a moment anxiously and angry;
the reckless Friedrich took many opportunities to refer to a tendency
to William to interpret Natalie.

How could he fall for it? which he was entitled to that? And had not believe the company that,
since both dealt a lot with each other, Wilhelm him a so careless and unfortunate confidence
did?

One day they were in such a cheerful jokes than usual, as Augustin
Once the door, which he tore hereinstuerzte, with horrible gestures,
his face was pale, his eyes wild, he seemed to want to talk, the language
failed him.

The Company horrified, Lothario and Jarno, which assumed a return of madness, jumped rid of
him and held him. Stuttering and dull, then violently and forcibly said, and called He said:
"! Not Hold me hurry, help save the baby Felix is ​​poisoned!"

They released him, he hurried obtruded the door, and in terror, the company after him. It called
for the doctor, Augustin turned his steps to the room of the Abbes,
they found the child, who seemed shocked and embarrassed when he was
called out from afar: "What got you started?"

"Dear father!" Felix said, "I have not the bottle, I drank from the glass, I was so thirsty.
"

Augustin clasped hands, exclaimed: "He is lost!"

Urged by those around him and hurried away.

They found a glass of almond milk are on the table and together with a Karaffine that about the
half was empty, the doctor came, he knew what you knew and saw with horror the well-known Phials, which
had found the liquid opium, empty lie on the table, he let vinegar procured it, and cried
all the resources of his art to his aid.

Natalie let the boy get into a room, she is looking anxiously around him. The Abbe had run away,
Augustine and erdringen seek some explanation from him. Similarly, had sought in vain the unhappy
father, and found when he came back at all Faces of anxiety and concern. The doctor, meanwhile,
had the almond milk are analyzed in the glass, It found the strongest admixture of opium, the child
was lying on the couch and seemed very ill, it asked the Father to him in sufficient amount to
just nothing more that you just do not would like more torment. Lothar had sent his men and
was himself ridden to Augustine on the run to track. Natalie sat in the child, it escaped to
her lap and asked her pleading for protection, pleading for a little piece of sugar, the vinegar
is too angry! The doctor gave it, one had the child, the most terrible in the movement was to rest
for a moment, he said, it happened all advisable, he wanted the possible to do. The count came
with some reluctance, apparently brought about, he looked serious, even solemnly, laying his
hands upon the child, looked to the sky and stayed a few moments in this position. William, who
was dismal in a chair, jumped up, threw a glance despair to Natalie and went out the door.

Shortly after, the Count left the room.

VIII, 10th Chapter - 2

"I do not understand," said the doctor after a pause, "that not even the slightest Trail of a
dangerous condition shows the child. must also only with a sip it is a enormous dose of opium used
to have, and now I find no further at its Pulse Movement, as I write
my own means and fear, may we put the child have.

"

Soon after Jarno came in with the news that Augustin on the upper floor of his Blood was found, a
razor was lying next to him, he probably had the Throat cut. The doctor hurried away and met
the people who the body of the stairs brought down. He was laid on a bed and carefully examined,
and the cut was in the PIPE gone to a severe blood loss had followed a swoon, but let himself
soon realize that, nor life, nor that hope was left. The doctor brought the body in the right
position, added together the separate parts and put it on the dressing. The night went all the
sleepless and worried over. The child did not want to part with Natalie . Let Wilhelm sat
before her on a stool, he had the feet of the boy on his Womb, head and chest were in theirs, so they
shared the pleasant and the painful burden Concerns and remained until the day broke, in the uncomfortable
and sad situation, Natalie had Wilhelm, where her hand, she spoke not a word looked at the
child and looked at each other at. Lothario and Jarno sat at the other end of the room and
introduced very important Conversation that we like to see us the events not to be urgently
requested, our readers would share here. The boy was sleeping gently woke up early this morning
entirely clear, jumped and demanded a song.

As soon as Augustin had recovered somewhat, they tried to clear up some from him. It was learned, not
without difficulty, and only gradually: that when he was in the unfortunate dislocation was the
count in a room mixed with the Abbe, he is the manuscript and its history was found, his horror
was unparalleled, and he is now convinced that he ought not to live longer, and immediately he took his
usual recourse to opium, It was poured into a glass of almond milk and I have yet, as he put
it to his mouth, shuddered; Then he did leave it to once again run through the garden and see the world;
on his return he found the child, just busy, the glass, from which
it drank vollzugiessen again.

We asked the misfortune to be quiet, he said Wilhelm convulsively by the hand. "Oh!" he said, "why
did I leave you not long ago, I knew that the boy I and he would kill me ."--" The boy lives,
"said Wilhelm. The doctor who zugehoert attention had asked Augustine whether all drinks have
been poisoned. "No!" he replied, "only , the glass ."--" So by the happy coincidence ", said
the doctor," the child from the bottle drunk! A good genius has led his hand that it did not
attack after the death of so close was prepared !"--" No! no, "Wilhelm said with a cry, by the
hands before her eyes, "how terrible is this statement! also expressly told the child that there
had not been drinking from the bottle, but from the glass. His health is only one Certificate,
it will die off in the hands of us. "He hurried away, the doctor went down and asked, as he
caressed the child: "Not true, Felix, you've been drinking from the bottle and not from the glass?
"The child began to cry. The doctor told Natalie to myself, how the things are, and they tried
in vain to the truth of the child to experience, and just cried violently
and so on until it fell asleep.

William woke up with him, the night passed quietly. The next morning was found dead Augustine
in his bed, and the attention of his guards by an apparent calm was ripped off the association
dissolved quietly and bled to death. Natalie was walking with the child, it was awake and in his happiest
days. "You're right," Felix said to her, "you not quarrel, do not you hit me, I will tell thee
only, I have drunk from the bottle!

Aurelie mother always hit me on the finger when I reached for the Karaffine, the father looked
so angry, I thought he would beat me. "

With winged steps Natalie hurried to the castle, William came to her,
still full of worries, contrary.

"Happy father!" she cried aloud, by abolishing the baby and him in the Arms raised, "you have your son,
he drank from the bottle, it has its bad habit saved. "

They told the happy end to the count, but only with the smiling, quiet, modest Certainty listened
with which one may bear the mistake of good people. Jarno, attention on all this time could not explain
such a high Selbstgenuegsamkeit until he finally after many circumlocutions heard the count
was convinced that the child had really taken poison, he did it but wonderfully preserved
by his prayer and the laying on of his hands alive. Now he also decided to go away at once,
was packed with him all typical in a Moments, and at parting took
the Countess Wilhelm's hand before she nor the Sister let go of the
hand, pressed together all four hands, turned around quickly and got
into the car.

So much terrible and wonderful events that crowded one over the other; to an unfamiliar way of life
and compelled all translated into disorder and confusion that had a kind of fever of vibration to
the house. The hours of sleep and waking, of eating, drinking and social co-existence were crazy,
and vice versa. Except Theresa There was no one left in his tracks, the men searched through
their good spirit drinks Restore mood, and by an artificial atmosphere,
gave it away the natural, which alone gives us true joy and activity.

Wilhelm was moved by the most violent passions and a deep slump, the unexpected and terrifying attacks
had brought out all his inner completely replaced, a passion to resist, which had taken possession
of the heart so violently. Felix had given him, and yet he seemed to be missing anything, the
letters from Werner, the instructions were there, he lacked nothing about his trip as the courage
to leave. All urged him to this Travel. He could suspect that Lothario and Therese were only
waiting for his removal to to get married. Jarno was contrary to his habit of quiet, and there
would almost say , Can he have lost some of his habitual cheerfulness. Fortunately helped our
friend the doctor somewhat out of the difficulty by taking him for
ill explained and gave him medicine.

The company was always in the evenings, and Frederick, the jolly man who habitually drank more
wine than cheap, took possession of the conversation and brought
in his own way with eulenspiegel one hundred quotations and allusions,
the Company continued to laugh and they not infrequently at a loss
as he allowed himself to think aloud.

To the illness of his friend, he seemed not to believe. Once, when it all together were, he exclaimed:
"What do you call the evil doctor has attacked our friend the fit? here none of the three thousand
names with which your ausputzt your ignorance? At similar Examples,
at least it has not been lacking.

It depends, "he went with an emphatic tone continued, "such a case
in the Egyptian or Babylonian history before."

The company looked at each other and smiled.

"What was the name of the king?" he exclaimed, pausing for a moment. "If you do not einhelfen me
want, "he continued," I will know how to help myself. "He yanked the door leaf on and pointed
to the big picture in the hall. "Like the goatee is called the crown there, at the foot of the bed
abhaermt to his sick son?

What is the name Schoene, the enters and modest in their eyes rogue poison and antidote at the
same time leads? What is the name bungler of the physician, the rises until this moment a light,
the first in his life, finds opportunity to prescribe that rational prescription, to hand a
remedy, the cure for the reason and that is as tasty as beneficial? "

In this tone he continued to rant.

The company took as much as possible together and hid her embarrassment behind a forced smile.
A slight blush Natalie's cheeks overspread and betrayed the movements
of her heart.

Luckily went Jarno them with up and down, and when she came to the door, she walked with a clever
movement addition, even several times in the vestibule, and against,
and then went to her room.

The company was still. Friedrich began
to dance and sing:

Oh, you will see wonders! What has happened is
done, what is said is said. Eh It shall meet, You should see her miracle.

Therese
had followed Natalie, Frederick pulled the doctor from the large paintings,
held a ridiculous tribute to the medical and stole it.  They also feed upon roots
and bulbs, which with their strong claws they are enabled to scratch up out of the ground.
Their mode of progression is by leaps--not like those of the kangaroo, but still more resembling
the pace of a rabbit or hare-- and they appear to prefer mountainous regions for their habitat.
There are several species of them in Australia and the adjacent islands.

The Phalangers, or Fox Opossums, come next in order.  These creatures are so called from a
sort of resemblance which they bear to the well-known Reynard; but, fortunately, the resemblance
does not extend to their habits, as they are all supposed to be innocent creatures, living
on fruits and seeds, and climbing trees for the purpose of obtaining them.  The true Vulpine
Opossum--which is a native of Australia, near Port Jackson--is very much like a small fox;
but there are two sub-genera of the phalangers that differ much from this form.  One of these
is the Scham-scham, a very beautiful spotted creature found in the Molucca and Papuan islands.
Several other species of phalangers inhabit these and other Asiatic islands, especially Celebes
and New Ireland.

The other sub-genus is that of the Flying Squirrels, usually known as Norfolk Island Flying
Squirrels, though it is not even certain that they inhabit the last-mentioned island.  It needs
only to be said that these animals are very much like other flying squirrels; and in fact they
are squirrels, only squirrels of the marsupial kind.  There are several species already described.

Another pouched animal is the Koala, or Ashy Koala as it is called.  It differs in appearance
from all the others, being of stout make, and almost without a tail.  It is not unlike the
bear in its form and movements; but its bulk is scarce equal to that of a moderate sized dog. 

"And when now," replied Lothario, taking him by the hand was, "Your connection with my Sister would
be the secret condition under which Therese has determined me their to give your hand? Such
compensation shall be sent to you thought the noble girls, they vowed that this twin pair should
go in one day to the altar. "His mind has chosen me," she said, "his heart calls Natalia, and my mind
will come to the aid of his heart." We have agreed to Natalie and watch, we made the Abbe to our
familiar, which we had to promise to do any step in this connection, but all his to let go gear.
We have done it. Nature has worked, and has the great brother only the ripe fruit abgeschuettelt.
Let us, as we come together again so wonderful not lead a wicked life, let us be working together
in a worthy manner! Unbelievable is what an educated person can do for themselves and others when
he, without to rule, want the added spirit, guardian of many to be, she leads, the one for right
time to do what they want but all like to do, and it leads to their purposes, they usually
have pretty good eye, missing only the ways to do so. Let us then a covenant, it is not fanaticism,
it is an idea that quite well executable and the more often, just not always executed with
clear awareness of good people is. My sister Natalie's case, where a vivid example. Unattainable
is always the actions of stay, which prescribed the nature of this beautiful soul. Yes she deserves
this honor with many others before, more if I may say, as our noble Aunt itself, Classified
at the time when our good doctor that manuscript as the most beautiful Nature was, as we have
known in our circle. Meanwhile, Natalie has developed, and humanity says such a phenomenon.
"

He wanted to talk, but Frederick jumped in with great clamor. "What a wreath I deserve? "he exclaimed,"
and how will you reward me?

Myrtle, laurel, ivy, oak leaves, the freshest that you can find her the winds together, so many
merits you have in me to crown. Natalie is yours! I am the magician, who has raised this treasure.
"

"He says," Wilhelm said, "and I go."

"Did you order?" said the Baron, he noted Wilhelm.

"From his own power and violence," Friedrich, "said by the grace of
God, if you will; I was free man, I am now an envoy, I have listened
at the door, she has entirely discovered the Abbe.

"

"Shameless!" Lothario said, "who say listen up!"

"If they say include it!" Friedrich said, "I heard everything perfectly well, Natalie was very
moved. In the night when the child seemed so sick and half resting on her lap, as if you were
sitting disconsolately in front of her and some test the beloved burden to her, she did vow
if the child were to die, confess their love to you and offer a hand
to yourself, now, because the child lives, why should their attitude
Change customer?

What we once so promising, it holds under all conditions. Now the priest to come and wonderful
feel for what he Brings news. "

The abbe entered the room. "We know everything!" Friedrich said to him, "it makes short just
because you come to the formality's sake, nothing more to be the masters demands ".

"He obeyed," said the Baron. "How naughty," said the Abbe.

"Now quickly," said Friedrich, "what about the ceremonies?

The can enumeration on the fingers, you have to travel the invitation of the Marquis comes
to you beautifully good stead. Are you only once about the Alps,
we find everything at home, and people you know's you, if you take
in a bit sore, your giving them a conversation they do not need to
pay. It's just as if you gaebt a free-Redoute, and it can All stands
to take part. "

"You have indeed with such festivals have been killed
very public deserves," replied the Abbe, "and I come, it seems, is
no longer the word."  The tamanduas
do not live solely upon ant-diet.  The wild bees, that build nests among the branches, are
also objects of their attention; and their thick hairy skins appear to protect them from the
stings of these insects.

The smallest species--called the Ouatiri, or Two-toed Ant-eater--differs altogether from the
three above-mentioned.  It more resembles a little monkey, and is covered all over with a thick
coat of soft woolly hair of a yellowish colour.  It is also a tree-climber, possesses a naked
prehensile tail, and makes its nest in a hole in the trunk, or in one of the larger branches.

In Africa the ant-eaters are represented by several kinds of animals, differing essentially
from each other in outward appearance, though all agreeing in their habits, or rather in the
nature of their food.

The Aard-vark, or Earth-hog, of the Cape colonists, is the most noted kind.  This animal is
a long, low-bodied creature, with sharp-pointed snout, and an immense whip-like tongue, which
he is capable of projecting to a great distance, in the same manner as the tamanoir.  His body
is covered with a dense shock of reddish-brown hair; and he dwells in a burrow, which he can
cleverly make for himself--hence his trivial name of Ground-hog.

The other African ant-eaters are usually called Pangolins, or Manis. These are covered with
scales that resemble suits of ancient armour; and on this account they have sometimes been
confounded with the armadilloes, though the two kinds of creatures are altogether different
in their habits. 

"How?" Werner said, "so you wanted to prefer that our freely purchased goods controlled ? Would
be "

"Yes," replied Lothario, "to a certain degree: for by this equality
with all other possessions produced alone the security of property.

The Sloths belong to this group of mammalia; not that they have the slightest resemblance to
the ant-eaters in any respect, but simply, as before stated, because they want the cutting
teeth.  They are not absolutely toothless, however, since they possess both canines and molars.
With these they are enabled to masticate their food, which consists of the leaves and tender
shoots of trees.

The name, sloth, is derived from the sluggishness of their movements, amounting almost to complete
inactivity.  They scarce stir from the spot in which they may be placed, or at all events move
so slowly as to be a whole hour in getting from one tree to another, or even from one limb
to another!  They spend most part of their time upon the trees (the cecropia peltata is their
favourite), usually clinging to the branches with their backs downward; and in this way they
crawl from one to another, uttering at intervals a plaintive cry, which resembles the syllable
ai, uttered several times in succession.  From this they derive one of their trivial names
of Ai, or Ay-ay.

The sloths are all inhabitants of tropical America--dwellers in the great forests of Guiana
and Brazil.

As natural curiosities in the animal kingdom, the Armadilloes do not yield to any of the four-footed
creatures, and an account of their habits, would space permit, could not be otherwise than
extremely interesting.  They are exclusively inhabitants of America; but many species, both
in North and South America, are found far beyond the limits of the torrid zone.  There are
a great many species known--and these are of all sizes--from that of an ordinary rat, to the
Giant Tatou, which sometimes attains the enormous dimensions of a moderate sized sheep!  It
may be mentioned that they are subdivided into a number of genera, as the sloths, etcetera;
and here, again, without any very sufficient reason, since they all possess the scaly armour--from
which the name armadillo is derived--and their habits are nearly identical. They dwell in burrows,
which they make for themselves; in fact, they are more than ordinarily clever at excavating,
and have been blamed for carrying their tunnels into graveyards, and feeding upon the bodies
there deposited! "Oh!"
he exclaimed, "who knows what waiting for tests on me, who knows how much I suffer from mistakes
or how often my good and reasonable plan for the future will fail, but this treasure that I
own once I get, you ask or inexorable fate! Would it be possible that this best part of myself
in front of I destroyed that this heart could be torn from my heart, farewell, mind and reason,
farewell, every care and attention, get out, you drive for preservation! All that distinguishes us
from animals, are lost! And if it is not allowed, his sad days to terminate voluntarily, so
that an early lifting madness on the awareness before death, which it destroyed for ever, brings
about the long night! "

He took the boy into his arms, kissed him, hugged him and bathed him with copious tears. The
child woke up, his bright eye, his friendly smile touched the Father intimately. "Which scene
awaits me," he exclaimed, "if I up the beautiful, is to present unfortunate countess, when she presses
up to her bosom, the father of your has hurt so deep! I must not fear, she joins up again with
a Cry when your touch renewed their real or imagined pain! "

The driver left him no time to think ahead or to choose, he urged him before the day in the car,
and now he wrapped his Felix a well, the morning was cold but clear, the Child saw for the
first time in his life aufgehn the sun. His surprise at the first sharp look, about the growing
power of the light, its joy and its strange Remarks enjoyed the father and let him look into
the heart to do, before which the Sun like about a clean, quiet lake rises and floats.

In a small town stretched from the driver and rode back. Wilhelm took immediately Rooms in possession
now and wondered, if he stay or should go forward. In this Indecision, he ventured out again
to increase the leaflet, which he now again to see had not married, and it contained the following
words: "Send me your young friend so soon; Mignon has these last two days rather worse. Sad
as the occasion , so I shall rejoice's yet to meet him. "

The last words William had not noticed at first sight. He was terrified about it and was immediately
decided that he did not want to go. "How?" he exclaimed, "Lothario, which the Relationship knows,
has not opened her who I am? Do not expect with a set Mind a friend who preferred not to her
again, she expects a stranger, and I Join in! I see them recoil, I see her blush! No, it is impossible
for me . To look forward to this scene have just been led out the horses and secured; Wilhelm was
determined to pack up and stay here. It was largest in the movement. When he was a coming up the
stairs heard girls who wanted to show him that everything was ready, thought He quickly on a
cause that compelled him to remain here, and his eyes rested without Attention on the ticket,
which he held in his hand. "For God's sake!" he exclaimed, "What is it? This is not the hand
of the countess," it is the hand of the Amazon! "

Book VIII, 2  Europe, Asia,
Africa, the Asiatic Islands, North and South America, all have their porcupines-- some of them
entirely covered with quills, others with hair intermingled with the spines, and still others
on which the spinous processes are so small as to be scarcely perceptible, yet all partaking
of the habits and character of the true porcupines. What did the farmer in
the modern times, when so many terms are variable, a main reason for the holding the nobleman
founded to look for less than his own? Only that those not charged and charged at him. "


Of hedgehogs there are also several species, and they are found in most countries of Europe,
and in many parts of Asia and Africa. We leave each other cure our existence the only case
that a state revolution one or the other of his Besitztuemern Fully distributors. I go over to America
to use the good conditions, which our friend has made his stay. The Abbe wants to go to Russia
go, and you should have the choice if you want to join us if you Lothario beistehn do in Germany
or go with me. I should think you chose the latter, for to do a big trip for a young man is very
useful. "

Wilhelm pulled himself together and replied, "The application is worthy of consideration, because
my Motto is yet to be soon: "The further away the better."

M. Cuvier and his followers seem to have omitted the reflection that this wonderful discovery
very naturally suggests.  Putting it interrogatively, we may ask, How is it that the hyrax,
whose "anatomical structure proves it to be a rhinoceros," is not a rhinoceros in habits, appearance,
nor, in fact, in anything but the shape of its bones?

If, then, we were to take osteology for our guide, I fear we should often arrive at very erroneous
conclusions; and were the little hyrax an extinct animal, and not known to us by actual observation,
we should be led by anatomical theorists to ascribe to the timid creature a very different
set of manners from what it has got. He was acting
is not of arbitrariness, but on the orders of bishop and high council. The intention was: to
avoid all public scandal and the sad case with the veil of a secret discipline obscure.
