Under Drake's Flag:

A Tale of the Spanish Main by G A Henty.

Contents

Chapter  1: The Wreck on the Devon Coast. Chapter  2: Friends and Foes. Chapter  3: On the
Spanish Main. Chapter  4: An Unsuccessful Attack. Chapter  5: Cast Ashore. Chapter  6: In the
Woods. Chapter  7: An Attack in Force. Chapter  8: The Forest Fastness. Then he left for me
and Mr Webb ever a wooden stool and asked me to bring him the latest events and to communicate
news of the day from the Cape Colony and the diamond fields, inquired in accordance with the
orders of the British government in the south, complained about the arrogance of the Boers
to the east and finally asked me if I were a British or Boer. To him by Mr. Webb imparted answer
that I was a Bohemian (Bohemian), he could not conceive and had, after he asks for my name, the
two appearing to him as strange words the little courtyard in the old sitting around Barolongs
Repeat until it is the same stamped had. When I parted from him, I had to promise him that it so often
I in the land of Barolongs came to visit, I would always be welcome to him. I met here also the chief
Schebor of Konana, who had come on a visit to Molema, and that apologized that his People whom we
wanted to exchange three oxen for a breech-loader, is delayed had, so the trade did not come
to pass.

The following afternoon we spent fishing, who was a very productive (we began no less than 42
catfish). As bait we used all the frequent, 1 ½ inches long Grass grasshoppers. The water in the
caves of Tufffelsen was so clear that each one also could distinguish larger grains of sand
to a depth of 2 ½ -6 foot. We had our little Fishing ejected, as the dark shape of a shield-headed
catfish (Glanis siluris) from one of the side caves came out, the bait slowly floated and then
unsuspectingly ate. The animals weighed all ¾ -1 pound, as I in 1875 during my second visit to
the same Fished site, I found only small, brown, 6 inch long beast and the drought of 1874 had most
of the caves were drained and killed the fish, the new breed was come down with the Regenfluthen
from the swamps of the upper Molapo.

Mr. Webb provided me with two letters to Mr. Martin, a resident in Moschaneng dealer and the King
Montsua should read to him the former. Montsua's title was: »Morena Montsua (Montsiwe, Montsiva)
Khoschi Barolong ca." Also I made my new On two old friend, familiar with the Barolongs before
their knowledge of Christianity Share carefully. One tells of a boss, to taste the waters of a
river could proceed and divide by the resulting dry spot, and the second tells by a boss who had
to decide right at the Salomon between two women, each of which wanted to make her mother's right
to a child and the same claims.

On 5 we broke at last, and moved north at the foot of a wooded survey. The next Environment of our
route gave me ample opportunity to enrich my Insectensammlung; among others, I found a nice
large, previously unknown to me Schildkäferart whose elytra green and golden brown were punctured,
and which I often one of the most common nightshade species South Africa's encountered. My attention
was also on the numerous, lining the way Kameeldornbäume directed that the nests of Siedelsperlings (Philetaerus
socius) were thickly covered.

In a recess in the bottom near a flowing to the northeast or the Taung Notuani River Bache
we finished our walk today. The formal investigation into a coppice grown Kameeldornbestände
by pulling the next morning we came to a Makalaharidorf whose Inmates were shepherds and hunters
Montsua's. They are marked all the way up to Moschaneng in very dark colors, and thought we would be
with the weak draft animals hardly the royal residence . Reach The road was actually extremely
difficult, the deep sand, the tired Animals to a large degree, this was the forest of numerous
small, 1-2 feet deep valleys (in the Rainy season pool passes through), the dry dust rising from the
sandy soil mouth and trachea in dubious ways, and hurt in the face. dried on a small of the aforementioned,
with fresh grass overgrown sinks I found one to hundreds of shiny metallic blue Lytta with
a rust-red spots (I later met only once, under similar Conditions on my third trip in Sesheke
forest, about 15 miles northwest of Schescheke on), I also shot a circling above us honey buzzard
(Pernis apivorus).

This state of the road remained the same on the following day and two for the most part dry salt
pans arrived, it seemed hardly possible, covered with 14-inch deep sand Pans to pass. Using all kinds
of information resources and join forces It was after hours of work to achieve the opposite wooded
shore. The ensuing Rest was deserved. In the forest we found two edible berries, namely the
right from the Harts River known rust-red berry of blue bush (the seeds are the same used by the
Koranna's as shot) and yellowish, not dissimilar to our currant Berries that are wild by the Boers
grenades, from the Koranna GEIP's called love and enjoy.

We approached the next day one of our cruising altitude road course, the passing us by Barolongs
was designated as Malau's highs and its highest, so far unnamed knoll I Hußhöhe called. I had
the opportunity on this day, my collections and a Zwergeule to increase the bellows of a Milan.
At the foot of the heights, we found numerous cattle posts and the Baharutse Barolongs Moschaneng
of which their cattle drenched in rain pools, while they drew their water needs, even the natural
Felsencisternen. The slopes of the heights were for the most part hochbegraste pastures, the livestock
was made for. met the night the two of us loaded with ivory from Shoshong, the city of eastern
Bamanquato coming and sent off to the ivory traders and Clark Francis
Grahamstown weighing.

On 9 we had reached the saddle of the Malauhöhen and camped between green groups standing together with
fence beets, and lianas Cucurbitacaeen spanned bushes and shaded Kameeldornbäume not lacking
in which especially the long-tailed, black and white spotted Shrike made remarks. Large turtle
doves were not rare and for the first time heard I here a whistle to be part of a Psittacus
seemed. Following the call I had the joy of a couple of small, grayish, the head and the wing roots,
yellow spotted and explore the beautiful green colored parrots chest.

This species (Psittacus Rupelii) is to broadcast on the Zambesi, usually lives in pairs and nests
in tree holes.

On our next trip, I found beside the road killed a snake eagle, probably a simple-minded Barolong
from petulance and then shot off throw from the road in the bush have liked. We had to cross
several valleys and steep, extremely rocky heights to climb. On one of the hills Niger had discovered
a snake and into a thorn tree hunted, and as I the snakes South Africa, after me everywhere from
the many victims, fall prey to the poisonous snakes each year on this continent, reports,
eternal hostility sworn (had all that could not be placed in alcohol, were skinned or at least
kept and decapitated the head), I was soon with his gun to Place to assist the dog. The reptile
was pursued by him more than thumb-thick, green and over four feet long and had a tree in (Acacia
giraffe) fled in the dense branches, it is quickly moving up and down. A haze shot stunned
the snake, without killing them, then I took the tail of the animal to get it out of the thorn
branches Close extract. I pulled something fierce - there are the standing next to me a cry Pit
of himself, I'm going looking for him, than by a painful feeling in my right thumb my attention was
quickly returned to the object. The snake was hanging with their jaws on my finger. I was quite
warm at heart, I tore at the tail end that I almost the snake would have torn in two, which completely
killed the animal fell to the ground. Buy I called after ammonium chloride, bent down at the
same time, however, the reptile to the nature of . Determine Is not that a Bucephalus viridis
(cupensis)? A toxic and harmless snake? The head moving, I open the jaws to see no poison tooth,
to even feel. On F. had made a deep impression this incident and made him bitter enemies of all
Reptiles converted, and while we continue our journey, he had no Akazienstämmchen unmolested,
his throat looked eagerly for a victim, but for hours he had only indulge themselves the Revenge
of the spines can.

"Hurrah, halloo, Hurrah," and as many air jumps from page F. 's interrupted our Thoughts running and
we stopped the car, White and Black rushed to the joy bubbling To youth. There he stood, confident,
and pointed triumphantly to the top of the next bush. But only a moment lasted his supposed
triumph, in the convulsive laughter which B. and E. sang in chorus with the blacks, had to
occur to me when I a harmless Chameleon had seen. Poor F. also had bad luck with resolute his
attempts to exploits.

The shortage of water the next day there was very palpable and although we of passing Barolongs
bought some pots with milk, our thirsty draft animals was not served. material in a broad valley
in north east, we finally had the wooded Slopes of the foothills of the Malauhöhen reached,
a fresh breeze fanned us poor cooling and to our great joy promised a rising storm, the long-awaited
wet to donate.

Our hope was not deceived, a moderate rain filled our water containers and allowed the animals
to North soak. Now it was to move fresh, as I intend had reached
the same day Moschaneng.

A dull sound, which is clear to us seemed to approach, delayed our departure. As to the cause
of it, we were soon solved.

It seemed a mounted Barolong and followed him to a herd of 50 horses, which of two other Barolongs
driven and their lateral deflection of one at each prevents side in the woods was galloping natives.
Our surprise here to see such a troop horse was not low. One of the crowd gate jumped on a
Moment from the saddle and told us that this Montsua's, the Barolongenkönigs, horses were he
to his cousin Maroka annually to the Free State will send to them there during the period of leave of
grazing in Betschuanaländern grassi leaders horse disease. "Does your king as much as horses,
as evidenced by the number of those who had driven over to us" -
O, Master.

Morena (the king) has more than this, in the city, he retains only the gesouten (Salted) horses,
which are precisely the most valuable. "

After a short trip I made a hour's walk before Moschaneng. The rain had here all Depressions filled
with water, and the location was an attractive, protected against the wind, lightly wooded,
for a two-day stay as created valley, so that I here rest from the
efforts of the Molapo trip and then hoped to go after Moschaneng,
I find to be quite busy and also for my draft animals, which many
in the city held Heerden half to find any good pasture believed.

In the woods there was beautiful (so called by the Boers) beech trees, and under the (Wrongly)
with wild Syringa known, wild olive and Kareebäume, Mohatla and Morethwabüsche, Trees and shrubs
with maple-like, winged seeds, several varieties of mimosa (Acacia detinens, Acasia giraffe
Acacia horrida), on the heights south of the known (but, as I thought it represented in new
forms) aloes. Here I also shot a large, gray (Called go-away by the English, grote Mausevogel
by the Dutch), Lori, also a brown kites and two gelbgeschnäbelte toucans. The first bird nests
on the highest Tips of trees, from where he left and right moving head all foreign to him beäugelt
appearing, and yet so often he screams his ugly go-a-while ejects its Schopf hosts high. On 11
December I made several trips to the neighborhood who feel Collections were very stead. Under the
yield, there were parrots, six of Lori's, Widows, toucans and two Kukuksarten, a small, green and
gray melirte, rothbeschopfte Woodpecker and bittersweet.

Our arrival led, as I had sent to F. the city to the Dutch resident to extend a blacksmith, soon
bring more visitors, the first question put forth shy the fire was
water.

Her embarrassment proved to me that Montsua's reputation as an opponent of brandy was founded.

Afternoon,
we received another visit from Moschaneng, and that the honor on the country Banquaketsen of whose
territory we (at approximately 25 ° 10 'south latitude), about half-way between Molema's Town and the present,
70 miles away, it stays exceeded had. A covered, two-wheel drove up with four horse-drawn
carts, turned in the woods that surround and then straight towards us. While Stephan was the horses,
increased occupant four natives from. First, a young man of about 25-28 years, who are as mobility,
the son of a Basutohäuptlings presented and F. knew from Kimberley, where he if his English education
and his skill in the English language for some time as Interpreter at the court office and
hired a man about South African paint was. He was conceived on a tour among the Betschuanahäuptlingen
and just a few days ago the king of Bakwena's arrived. Introduced us to mobilize now, after
handshakes with F. replaced, the other three people with the words. "These are two of the
most distinguished Bechuana Kings (two of the most outstanding Betschuanakönige) Montsua, that of the
Barolongs, of a wealthy and mighty tribe (a wealthy and powerful tribe), here Chatsitsive,
King of the Banquaketsen and there the main adviser or the Vice-Chancellor of the Banquaketse
empire. "

Montsua, a man of more than 50 years, stout, with an always smiling, good-natured face, I immediately
inspired confidence. Chatsitsive, a tall, gaunt man, clearly showed how his Chancellor that they
understood her wrinkled face adapt to circumstances. All were dressed in European, Chatsitsive
with a long overcoat and cylinder, and be Factotum with a Menschikoff. Having during the call,
the mobility and Pit as Interpreters initiated, were patterned sharp Montsua said that he me in
the precincts his city to welcome, he would probably not really in his element, he lived here
on the floor of his friend and Chatsitsive have left long ago the Molapo, because he had been
harassed by the Boers, but he was now tired of their doings, and would Moschaneng To leave in order
to build on Molapo or Poolfontein Lothlakaneflüßchen or on a city I had to come and visit him.

Then I was asked about the object and purpose of my trip. In response, I showed some of the Skins,
which were regarded with awe. Mobili interpreted the king processing the bellows, which has enabled
it to understand, however, and it continually shook his head. When I saw the king urged caution, as
poison is contained in the skin of the bellows (Mobile translated it with molemo maschwe, bad,
bad medicine met) of the old royal quiet Cry and dropped the bellows and the Bechuanaland's
fear nothing more than artificially prepared Gift, any medicament which does not help and a deterioration
of the patient brings about or can not prevent death, is regarded as a poison "Oh," sighed Montsua,
and he and his two companions looked at his hands and began to turn over the sleeves of their
coats, to the fingers to rub the sand. I had to bring water and soap and took one of my Towels,
which took Montsua still with a worried face, and not more reassured by him until I Mobili the ineffectiveness
of the poison on the human Skin could be explained.

But when the bigger surprise Vogelbalg, and loud exclamations even
by the side of the the appearance of a scholar followed giving mobility
than I with two of my reptiles, snakes, Lizards, frogs and spiders
vorwies filled bottles.

All four visitors were present receded and Montsua his Kiristock to hold the bottle, would
not detail to approach. Soon me, now marvel at the bottle, he calmed down only after he was convinced
that the snakes in the Butshuala a Macao (in the White beers) "asleep" and could not figure
out.

Meanwhile, a mocha finished and the metal cups were passed around. Meanwhile besah Montsua the
car, asked the boy (servant), where they were from me and finally,
what his brother Molema do, whether he was well, and I told him that
he was suffering from his old evil and that I gave him a Molemo, which
should help him.

Montsua took this message smile on approvingly.

And also Chatsitsive set Mobili asked if I the "great men" no other refreshment would have to offer.
I said no, I do not know what I could antragen them. Mobility was on, came over to me and said
I should send Pit and Stephan for water, he wanted I say something,
the servants should not be there.

I did it and now turned the secret. I should offer everyone a sip of brandy. I did so, and Montsua said
that he did not allow his subjects to offer brandy, that he himself only a or twice a year and
then only drink half a glass of wine. I poured out Montsua drank about half a spoonful, but
it immediately took on water. Chatsitsive brought two spoons down fully, however, shot while
his long face so that even Montsua broke out (with us) in a convulsive laughter. Chatsitsive
was about a spoon into the tin cup left, handed it to the Vice-Chancellor, and emptied it this
quickly, after which he left with the finger was trying to catch. Mobili flushed down the half-cup
without a face to . Pardoned

After the great lords had us all shaking hands and even the servants with a Nod thoughtful rose, the
German owner of a few hundred square miles of land in their carts, mobility took the reins at
hand in order to get ready for departure, as presented is Montsua's left of his shoulder while
he with me the right again to the cart get hold waved.

With two sets, I was at his side and the interpreter asked me in the king's name, where I intended
for it "Rumela" (recommendation letter) of the missionary Webb did. I got two letters and then
asked the King, the second coming of his address to leave, but could not help but give my astonishment
expressed that on the court had already heard of Moschaneng of the matter. Montsua laughed. "Yes,"
he said, "I know it for three days because of you went one day during your schliefet, two Barolongs
passed by Molema's Town, which I check out the news of your town, your tuna there, and the purpose
of your trip, from the two letters and the good effect of your Molemo had to report to brother Molema.
"

The next morning I visited Mr. Martin, one of the best men among the whites, the I found the
central-South African natives, together with Gentuña, the chief Baharutsestadt of which the northern,
by a separate part of Bach Moschaneng forms. We had a long conversation that I was very welcome.
[1] I used every free moment to collect and was with the visits to
the familiar woods very happy.



The schoolmaster was a little taken aback at this sudden prospect of departure, but he had
always been wholly indulgent to his son, and it was not in his nature to refuse to allow him
to avail himself of an opportunity which appeared to be an excellent one. The danger of these
expeditions was, no doubt, very great; but the spoils were in proportion, and there was not
a boy or man of the seafaring population of Devon who would not gladly have gone with the adventurous
captains.

Chapter 2: Friends and Foes.

Three days after the receipt of the letter, Ned Hearne stood with his bundle on the quay at
Plymouth. Near him lay a large rowboat from the ships, waiting to take off the last comers. As a scientific Yield taught
me to stay at a pretty young Klipspruit water iguana, some Otters, insects, scolopenders and
plants, especially grasses, and some Grünsteinvarietäten a .-- We drove late into the night and held
northeast on a plane about four miles of the Klipspruit-Furth to. The night was beautiful, very bright
and while the evening fire discussed our experiences sitting on the banks of the said Spruit, we
heard repeatedly at a moderate distance, the hum of the Gnu-bulls, sometimes with a thud, which
is then repeated several times, a sound that the impact of the arrogant, the stemmed with
their wide horns run up animals. The evenings at the beginning of all pages Then from midnight
till morning Schakalgebell repetitive and that long-drawn ugly hyenas cry showed that the game-rich
areas, many dog-like beasts of prey housed.

The trip on 27 March took us through wildly rich areas, except that
now the sink, in which the Spruit overcome, deep in places and had
been passed with bushes.

Some of the latter housed the south of the coast to beyond the Zambesi common guinea fowl.

This
wild bird chicken is unquestionably the most interesting phenomena of African bird life and he
in the wooded areas quite often occurs in multiple, He quickly, yet he is often hunted. The favorite
residence of the bird in Chains of 10-40 units are housed, bushy
or wooded areas near rivers or never-failing waters.

From our guinea fowl, it differs notably through his horn-like protuberance on the forehead.
I will present only the mention of hunting methods , The deal made him known to us.

On Vaal, Harts River and other tributaries of the former hunt these birds with the one best
results 1 ½ -2 hours before sunset, the time where the animals from the pasture of here and there
bushy level to rush in other parts of the bushes and forests to water, woselbst then they usually
stay on the higher banks of trees.

It can be almost The security Tränkstunde to 4 clock afternoon found for the whole season.
Usually Select the animals one and the same path, you have to close this hidden paths, and Looking
at about 4 ½ clock inland from the water, it will be when the weather allowed to see a cloud of
dust approaching to leave a few minutes later we heard the first Gackerlaute without even
the birds to be seen yet. The dust cloud is produced by that the animals have to drink constantly
hurrying on their way in the sand or clay soil scrape by insects and seeds. In dense grass
and the other birds make the chickens work in that they raise their heads and all temporarily
for a few seconds Observations hold, the grass is 3 and 3 feet high above, I observed that the
leaders of steps 10-15 ahead of time and rushed to time flew, jumped more correctly, look
around to. Had they seen anything suspicious, or is approached by a man or a beast of prey
from the front, so they took to flight with a loud cackle, and made it truly Incredible. I know
few birds, which can run as fast, and it goes so quickly in the Wild paths forward that with the habits
of these animals a little familiar to hunters during the day can not get to see. Knowing, however,
their rapid flight and sends one dog after them, or were in hiding and we shall meet them suddenly,
they fly up and they have a difficult flight, there is a reasonably good Protect easy to pull down
with each shot one of the animals. threatened by the natives them, as well as the rest of the
game birds, not much danger. I observed that only the Koranna's used to recreate the birds
to some extent, they aufstöberten with the help of their dogs and then - without a shot - with the
hard grains of the "Blue-bushes" (a small edible fruit) gunned down.

On the afternoon of the 27th March, we reached the Matheusspruit. Despite the rainy season Spruit
was pretty dried out and find the way a small dam across the bed built and thus formed a pond.
On a nearby slope spread a dense From bushes, home to some impoverished families Boers, which
over the passing traveler like birds of prey attacked and exploited in the following cunningly sought.

Pulled
a Boer from the Transvaal territories after the diamond fields to his products to the bring
to market, or returned it, or was it - then began to emigrate - Dissatisfied
from the diamond fields, which visit the Gold Fields in terms Leydenburger
were as randomly came one or two of these Boer's out of the bushes
and onto the cart to, tied up a conversation, and gave themselves
seem to want to enter into barter, whereupon they then point out the
good pasture and water on the dam nice not forget and invited to the
"Utspann"

(relax), this is nothing helped, so they knew the Wasserarmuth the next line to Klerksdorp to
describe in the darkest colors. Gave the travelers after, they were soon out of three and more
dirty Ohmen, their wives and a herd Children surrounded and burned their stores. I too was
unaware of the trap.

When we had spread out, there were no fewer than 17 heads one on my car. First was begging for
tobacco, unfortunately, I consented to their request and so came quickly sugar Coffee, tea, lead, gunpowder,
etc. to the series. Before we departed yet, we were still it warned that there was to be paid
for watering our animals at the ponds a shilling. Hardly This was done because the entire supply
train came back a second time and that to get medical seek advice from me, after they had previously
experienced in the course of the conversation that I A doctor was. As had a sick mind that
the head that hurt so I listened to them, imparted the medical advice as we harnessed, and
praised the moment happy as Gert, "Wagentriber," without worrying about bothering Umlagernden,
with a loud "Fatt mer" (grasps now draws on) the team began to move.

From Mattheusspruit Estherspruit against the state of the track was a truly pathetic. Partly he
led over rocky ground, and partly by such a soggy ground that we all Moments stuck. On 29 March,
we reached the Estherspruit, rested here in the Near a hospitable farm something and reached
the same evening the Jagdspruit. The landscape scenery of Mattheusspruit (also called Matjesspruit)
hitherto resembled first of those miles of Maqwasi River up to the Spruit, right and left of
us Grassy plains, north of the Maqwasihöhen, in the south of the Vaal River planes, which
we away but gradually had so far that we no longer perform his real valley could. Compared
to the hunting (the Dutch speaking "Jach-'), the scenery changed Spruit so far as the heights
to the left closer rates, even between this and Spruit pull Klerksdorp (Klerksdorf) across
the way to the Vaal River and some of Klerksdorp height groups are
interesting.

The next morning was nice and warm. The rising sun lit up the eastern slopes of the Klerksdorp
rocky heights, which partly bald, partly overgrown with bushes, the a cone or brodlaibförmig
isolated on the banks of Schoenspruit, the other to hills grouped with sharp rock ridges are.
Between us and these heights spread a moderate Lowlands, a broad open valley about two miles
from which a few miles down to einzumünden in the narrow valley of the Schoenspruit seemed. Beyond
a cross on the way to go protracted rocky hills should Klerksdorp, the oldest settlement in the Transvaal
Province, lie. The pleasant beautiful morning invited me for a walk on the plane, where me not
help the species-rich flora children's Botanisiren for asking.

Already on the way, I found several worth collecting, among them an
enormous amount in, literally as a weed Cinna-growing with dark brick-red
or pink flowers; it forms dense, but small, 12-40 cm tall, usually
two but here and there mehrblüthige sticks.

In a nearby bushes on the left, I found abundant yield of small jewel beetles (Buprestidae) Leaf
beetles (Chrysomelidae) and medium-sized horned beetle (Capricornia), also in numerous large, yellow-and
schwarzgescheckten spiders that big, our spiders like tissue between the trees and bushes were
spread out. Two Deukergazellen jumped through the Intruder startled, and just as quickly disappeared
in the thicket.

Returning from this little morning excursion, I made a great friend
E. Vogel attention, which seemed to start moving our car.

It was a great bustard, I wondered Goals for the neck, crashing the shot and the bird fell to the
ground. It was a splendid Animal, and indeed one of the largest of its kind from barely 30 feet from
the muzzle, was get them all shot in the front chest, so much so
that the bellows for my collection was quite useless, however, the
meat was a valuable acquisition to the kitchen.

Except an even larger Trapp couples the same way that I am on the third voyage left Limpopo shore watched,
I never saw such a big one in South Africa.

A saddle, we were translating into the actual valley of the Schoenspruit that one could properly
be called River, because in normal years, most continually flows
only in the character of a very dry Spruit shows.

In general, this is one of the Flußthal interesting valleys of the South African plateau's and
also one of the most fertile and bestbebauten. In the valley of the farm is classified Schoenspruit
to farm, beautiful pastures increase for the cattle, along the heights and the slopes to the
river, yet the value of land ownership on Schoenspruit and Moi River valley. Upon deployment
of some energy and rational Cultivation of the soil could easily be ten times the current yield of
cereals be achieved.

Klerksdorp or Klerksdorf consisted in 1873 of a main street where,
if I not mistaken, was one of 25 houses, it has since increased and
promises to find common ground Potchefstroom is the most important
city of the southwestern Transvaal territory to be.

At each I found a home garden with fruit trees, including peaches, oranges, etc., and the fences
formed of quince and pomegranate trees. That part of the beautiful River valley, in the Klerksdorp
is built is one also one of the best, especially in terms of water abundance of the River. The
valley is concentrated at Klerksdorp on both sides are demonstrating the heights, and isolated
by a standing ridge upstream on this side quite protected.

As we enter the exceeding of Schoenspruit another type of land formation, which be followed
up in the central Transvaal Wonderfontein sites can, I will have to few words the geological
structure of the distance from Bamboesspruit to Schoenspruit .

Remember The bulk of the rock visible at the level of form in terms of color, consistency, and
the areas further back in the almond-like inclusions observed vaalabwärts, various Varieties
of greenstone. In some places we find it very hard and firm, huge slabs forming, in others it
is brittleness and then shows the surface of many quartz-(dairy and Rose quartz) and chalcedonartige
inclusions. Here and there we found clay-slate, to other iron-rich shale deposited sediment and
some of the wild-level skirting heights made of porphyry.

I scoured the immediate vicinity of Klerksdorp and was notably the
plant yield satisfied.

In some of the derelict gardens I found a Malvaceae, which in veschiedenen Varieties occur,
the region of distribution of the southern sea coast to the Zambesi goes and has nice, large,
sulfur yellow flowers.

Even the day after our arrival, I set off back to my trip to Potchefstroom, the most populous city in
the Transvaal Republic to continue. On this 34-mile route I crossed three dry Spruit, the Kockemoer
the Matchavis and Bakenspruit which like the previously mentioned flow towards almost parallel
from north to south of the Vaal River. The country is more hilly than that between Bloemhof
and Klerksdorp, and the flatter as the deep valleys seem to be very fruitful. Between Klerksdorp
and Kockemoerspruit we crossed a marshy plateau in places that our
rapid progress Difficulties were encountered.

Two deep warned in the mud (mud) retracted weighing us utmost caution. In some places we had to digging
out the mud, stones form in the produced hollow cast to win a hard surface and then rapidly with
a loud encourage cracking of whips and shouting for the bullocks straining all their powers. To
elsewhere it was to avoid the unpleasant routes, which was sometimes
at one, However, we found in the other meadow watered down so that
the wheels cut deeply, as if the broad iron bands had been fitted
with sharp blades.

The time of my visit was for the communications channels in the Transvaal Republic almost nothing.
In the immediate vicinity of Potchefstroom, I found the roads in the worst condition.

The next day took us over the road at the foot of a high rock hill, the scenery the landscape
at this point besides those at Klerksdorp was the most attractive on the Gesammtstrecke my first
trip. In the flat valley of the hochbegrasten Bakenspruit was a numerous Flock of gray cranes
with the locusts hunting employs some calm between the birds grazing springbok antelope fell
on us. Nimrod F. tried to be Müthchen the innocently grazing animals cool, but how far other without
success, as if his be laughed stupendous blunder of us warmly on.

At the somewhat muddy Furth, we found thousands of swallows, which are based on the wet Basically had
settled.

A higher degree than our house martins are the South African Species true humanitarians and
so tame that they are not only in the corridors of a House, which
connect an always open communication with the outside, but also in
residential Rooms where the windows were left open for a long time,
trying to grow.

I have seen several such cases. The nests of the South African swallows are also built elaborate
than those of European Hirundo by releasing at a horizontal Blanket attached, covered with a long walk
or two straight or slightly wavy Progress are provided, so much so that response and represent
a whole nest. The South African Swallow species, and the nightjar (Caprimulgus) species are
more numerous than the European represented, but I observed none of the former is so strong
and yet so melodic Voice, as she characterizes the European house swallow.

From Bakenspruit we drove over a rocky road and had to cross a ridge, from which we in a side
valley of the imports Moi River, which latter on the point of entrance to a broad plain spreading
out, building an adequate office space offered on the stands now Potchefstroom or the new Moi
Riverdorp. The slopes, of which went along the cliff, were worth the trouble plenty of botanist
and after the numerous in the hills to the left, of which the highest about 4000 feet above
the sea is rises, partly cattle and goats herding, collecting wood, partly natives thought then
I suggest a western city in these natives have Potschefstroomhöhen. When I asked about it, shared
it with me that there is a city of Mohavis, one of Bechuanaland (Barolong?) Tribe lie.

From the hochbegrasten side valley in the spacious, on both banks in the removal of some English miles
of altitude ranges and isolated hills standing height of the Moi River valley limited - one always
flowing water - turn, we saw Potchefstroom ahead.

From a distance it appears to the visitor much smaller than it really is, which is explained well
by that the city spreads out in a plane which forms a parallelogram, and the roads so as the gardens
are planted in the houses with leafy trees. Even at the time of my Visit in 1873 was one of
the most important cities in Potchefstroom South Africa, since it has changed even more significantly
and raised.

She was the garden city of the country and that rank in the Transvaal colony claim as they
to today's most important trading city in the country and only by the Construction of the Delagoa
Middleburg train from Pretoria would be surpassed. The time of my visit I estimated the population
to just over 4,000 souls, which number turns out, however, increased
when we called the old Moi Riverdorp, ie the tight-knit, on the northern
City beginning and end of the valley upstream of the Moi River for
miles on both shores drawn-out farms to consider.

The river, flowing pretty strong, and many dichtbeschilfte Swamps forming flows around the city
on its eastern side. Its water is the most time through clear and home to many fish and crabs Vaal River,
its banks otters, Wild cats and iguanas. From the river, and also, if I mistake not, from the heights
of West, provides a water pipe, the gardens of the city, on its western side flowing around, which
are led by the main stream, small brook to the numerous groups of houses.

In the summer time in the less populated streets overgrown lush grass, but even in the dry period,
the city that many of the evergreen, mostly foreign and here imported
trees, Cupressineae, eucalyptus, ivy, etc., which in the Moi River
valley very grow well, with their clean angetünchten, jewelry, looking
out from the dark green, partly flat roof strength, partly begiebelten
houses, a garden, which contained in particular in the yellowish color
of the surrounding expressive in the broad valley bottom dried grass
stresses.

However - as the time of my first and second visit (1873 and 1874) the case - the distant, moderately
high hills and the broad valley with a high level, lush Grassy and have the banks of the river
in two, with white, fire red and yellow Flowers covered flower beds changed, then the true time
has come when Potchefstroom, resplendent in the most beautiful ornaments, the honorary title of Flower
City deserves the Transvaal region.

The streets are straight - the city is in "blocks" are measured - more spacious places, from which serves
in part as the most important market and Auction site can be found at the cleanup several roads.
Among the churches, the English, a beautiful little church epheuumringte idyllic picture. Otherwise
we can not find on public buildings one that on the level the ordinary, modern South African
cities buildings would stand out. The city is the Seat of a magistrate, the Portuguese Consul,
some elementary schools, and driving rain Trade in Natal, and several
mills and tanneries are created outside the city.

The main export items are flour, grain, tobacco and cattle to the diamond fields, to Natal
tobacco, cattle, Hides and CAROSSE, ostrich feathers and a bit now but little ivory. A good
Part of the trade goods from Natal, Orange Free State and the diamond fields have on his Way
into the interior of the country to pass Potchefstroom.

Without the outstanding buildings of the city by architectural treasures are, but both business
fixed locale, their purposes perfectly appropriate, spacious buildings, and the residential
building nice and cute, like many elegant villas set. What specially often each individual,
and even simple house special and the city of a general Stimulus gives, these are the enclosing
fruit and vegetable gardens and garden, and the many, thick with hundreds and thousands, this
bright, then dark red flowers decorated Rose hedges and fences of
high bushes or figs from such a beautiful, shiny, dark leafy dress,
and with fire-red flowers resplendent, later with fist-sized fruits
overloaded pomegranate tree formed.

Everywhere is green, flowers and smells it and several months through mature fruit beckon to
the hedges, shrubs and trees. Without much effort the Farm owners their annual demand for green vegetables
and fruit take without their little country to behave to the charm of the flower garden.

are at the most of ever-flowing stream ran through huge ditches in hot hot sun refreshing shady
willow trees, which with the light green the melancholy of their leaves and drooping, thin,
but loaded with dense leaf growth Clearly and so graceful branches of the dark nüancirten crowns of fruit trees,
the still Eucalyptusblättern darker, the pointed leaves of the tree of life and the dark Green
of Cypress trees parting.

We were not far stretched from the cemeteries in the immediate vicinity
of the city and changed Visit us at the same off to the car not to
leave unattended.

Our arrival has not gone unnoticed, soon had one of the dark-colored constable set in order
to inform about our intentions and Iren the contents of the car. It was soon followed by the
Clerk (Assistant) of the market master, who was also public Auctionär, to see as he just walked
by the way, whether the owner of this car may not be stretched Slaughter steers or otherwise
lead other products with it, that he would be happy to go. "His Boss, "he said," would be a capital
Auctionar and he shall bring the things that he should sell; so good to the man that the people
far and wide attended his services .-- "Come well of the diamond fields and want to try it now
in the gold fields? "was his question.


Opinions were much mingled, on board the Swanne, as to whether the slipping of the knot had
been the effect of accident or of an evil turn; however, the boys said little about it, and
endeavored, so far as might be, to let it pass as an accident. They felt that the matter between
themselves and Master Taunton had already gone too far for their safety and comfort. They doubted
not that he had been reprimanded by the admiral, as well as by Captain John, and that they
had earned his hatred; which, although it might slumber for a while, was likely to show itself
again, when a chance might occur.

Not wishing to inflame farther his fury against them, they abstained from giving such a complexion
to their tale as might seem to cast a suspicion upon him. Nevertheless there was a strong feeling,
amongst many of the crew, that Master Taunton must have had a hand in the casting adrift of
the boys; or that if he did not himself do it, it had been done by one of the party who always
worked with him.

Whatever the feelings of Giles Taunton might be, he kept them to himself. He now never interfered
with the boys, by word or deed, working sullenly and quietly at his craft as armorer The boys
felt their lives much lightened thereby, and now thoroughly enjoyed the voyage.

Although as boys it was not a part of their duty to go aloft, which was done by the regular
sailors who were hired for the purpose, yet they spent no small part of their time, when not
engaged--and their duties truly were but nominal--in going aloft, sliding down the ropes, and
learning to be thoroughly at home among the sails.

Every day, too, there would be practices with arms. On the old truism that opposites attract, seems brilliant Discovery to run out and this
fact is true but no more than about the opposite, so that adopting a law that causes that is
missing. An almost pathological Rejection of any doubting their own designs and by the self-constructed
premises results obtained in the book makes quite noticeable noticeable. It is expressed in terms
discussed on the "law" - with anxious zeal even in advance any objection defensively, "... It has
not the least improbable in itself, it is not in him of ordinary still in the scientific experience
acquired in the least opposed. "(!) It is further justified by legitimate sexual attraction
that sought testified that they almost "exception is mutual." And that's not ever! Each most sought
after than others, striving for it! "A young man loved a girl - The other one has chosen - the
other loves another - and this has married. "An ancient story that is forever new and true.
And an association is almost always on the one hand, a compromise - a kind of resignation -
and happy exceptions only confirm this rule.

Most interesting is the varied knowledge, which particularly in the disciplines of botany is
fetched and mathematics to support its thesis and to one with sure
hand constructed track the goals and purposes to which it is intended
to serve, moves: results of an eminent, but nothing less than "unconditional"
research.

As long as Weininger constative way to the purely scientific holds - be it even hypothetically
- impressed from the profound sagacity, especially with the analogies Animal and plant kingdom
are contrived to any formula, just as the interesting yes artistic thought, but fantastic and
unsustainable act of the affinity of the sexes purpose of mutual exchange of potential differences
(nature is never futile, profligate way of wasteful than just in love) - to illustrate. It binds
and interested in the dialectical skill, and agility of mind, immediately and in figures Numbers
to figure out looking - what it holds even as a result provided the father and to that of Weininger
himself cited Kant's dictum about the "vanity on the mathematical Pomp "to fit well seems.

"Under the" law then the phenomenon of homosexuality is subsumed. Nothing less but original is
the revelation that homosexuals characteristics of the opposite sex in the nature and also in
the external habit sometimes have. But it is downright terrorist, some Features, properties and
assets to be called only "masculine" or only "feminine", the often neither the one nor the other
are, but only human.

Who, for example unerotic Collegiality between the two sexes in favor, and could carry, had
already a strong admixture of the opposite sex in itself - and is, according to Weininger, not
a "real" Man, respectively, not a real woman!

With the words "right", "real, absolutely", "will" in itself in Weininger all cylinders a hair-raising
abuses driven. They are almost as Verklausulierungen the "confusing Reality "over there, where
they - subordinationswidrigerweise - certainly not wants to enter can be pressed into the Procrustean
bed of his formulas and laws.

Then it was just no "real" type, not a "real" Jew, not a "real" woman - "but one of many" intermediates!

He describes the "Jews as such" or the "woman as such" as metaphysical concepts because they
are so real (ie afflicted with amazing defects and monstrosities),
after his own words - do not exist. - All the more reprehensible must
appear misleading - By discussing the Jews or the women - while the
great-great-Jewish and Female 're Meant to be, "- which still remains
questionable whether this imaginary, constructed Types have actually
been told by their characteristics would, if they existed.

It this is an "authenticity" of life and all the tendencies of a natural forward motion continually
work against, for every individual that seeks as onward and upward, will seek to emerge "from
the limitation of mere national and generic" nature, to ensure more human, are always culture-"real".
Therefore someone describes how Weininger, the female and this type of thinking in its extreme
lack of differentiation (in a Primeval is wild), with all the vices and weaknesses of its special
nature - so he had him reasonably well in the masculine culture foreign original state as the
type All Raw, violent, murderous must oppose. [2]

[2] One should read how the male 'in itself in the head of a Writer, reflects in Hans von Kahlenberg
(Helene von Mont Bart's) fantastic and grotesque "apocalyptic" novel, "The last Man '.

But in order to fake those "men or women - such as those that are unerotic collegiality present
with the other sex - come back, here is a respect to them "Demand" informed the Weininger as
new and first described by him based on: - and she is in fact - just
as it is hardly surpassed in monstrosity.

  He condemned namely, the custom of that people from their birth
  to their external, primary sex characteristics be classified into
  the gender, indicating that those who, instead of being on their secondary
  sexual characteristics (such as quality of other body parts than
the reproductive organs, Facilities, slopes, etc. prefer) into consideration
before the fateful classification elegant!

This is the witches' multiplication, and those who conceived, is the one to three and three to four,
confused in the almost blind confusion all relations of things to each other. That the Difference
between male and female body parts at each expressed [3], for example, that a man can have female
hands or a woman boyish hips, is a known fact, but that the sex in the reproductive organs, these
"hot spots of Will "as Schopenhauer has called, culminates, is surely so obvious Fact that the authority to
determine the sex for her, probably just a morbid entangled spirit may appear doubtful. Imagine
the new "demand" that a delicious material for comedy writers presents, in fact carried out before:
before all, the sex determination, which now the midwife with real female superficiality At first
glance, the newborn makes, must be deferred until the "secondary" Sexual characteristics have
developed visible. So: "sex" it is not known henceforth must be called. Then grows the child
grew, and shows such characteristics can, for example, as it (more likely) As a young man or (more
likely) wife collegial, non-erotic dealing with peers to maintain the (presumably) the opposite
sex, it is clear that there is no "real" man respectively, not a "real" woman, and a classification
in the other sex, with the to move as suspicious can be dangerous seems necessary. In the modern
educational Tendencies that aim even at the cost Edukation (joint education of both sexes) and
probably the possibility of a non-erotic Massenkollegialität, one of awe and liberated comedy
comradely intercourse of young people among themselves might bring, - would have done the conversion
in the opposite sex in the same mass and the substitution of pants and skirts are made to best each
other. Man has such people (the unerotic collegiality with the other sex are able to keep) and know
the "suggestion" that it's not because of the "fateful classification" experience in their sex
had, but should move to the other, think, run, understand the full effect of such a shrewd!

[3] well after puberty.

You would not think it possible that in a book which is a serious and earnest included in the widest
circles, was such proposals are developed, you dare his opinion are not quite up to it repeatedly
and unambiguously refers repeatedly! The Author speaks - in bold letters - from individuals,
the "half man and half Woman are "(?!), - and not in the pathology known special cases he does
not, at Barnum & Bailey issued abortions, but individuals with human softness (These are the
effeminate) or human hardship (the masculinized), alleged their gender is not "fit" and therefore
refer them to the other! The novelty of their own Utterance is stressing with particular clarity,
usually for anything more Monstrous proclaim. So be not be considered such as homosexuality as an
aberration, but as the normal sexuality of sexual "intermediates" (?), however, "the Extreme
Ideal cases are only "almost every sentence (!) - line by line -
new winds Irrschlüsse each other.

  That bulls caged or locked in people (sailors, prisoners, Monks),
homosexuality is common, it proves - not that a forced Must be content
in the absence andersgeschlechtlicher complements them to drives,
but - He sees in it "one of the strongest confirmations of the established
law of sexual Attraction ".

(!)

The final resolution of this chapter, which occurs for the fact that homosexuals either by
the Asylum are still drawn by the criminal to account, but they simply to seek satisfaction can,
where and how to find them, is fully assent, - of course, only insofar as it is for adults,
not the seduction of minors Children. Weininger himself does not believe homosexuality by seduction
or habit, but only by innate system such as he will ever see anywhere root-like facilities
where it is often to clear Acquired, raised concerns. He explains his disbelief in "seduction"
with a truly incredible argument - namely, "What would it be the first seducer? This would be
instructed by God Hermaphroditos? "

After we finally have revealed is that the ordinary, so to speak, the "normal" homosexuals
the typical picture of the woman's very nature is an abomination, a revelation that more interesting
is when she is the key to many a "scientifically sound" contempt for women expected to contain
- is finally predicated of the whole own theory - "that they completely closed and self-contradiction
appears and a completely satisfactory explanation enable all phenomena. " By the modesty and
even humility, the author of this book should have been in personal
contact is intrinsically, at least in the book itself does not remember.

In many cases, is an insecure, intimidated appearance - this very modest - To lack of physical
self-consciousness due - and a more zealous Grimm against a particular idea mostly comes from
the same source.

Quite striking, the need becomes apparent, at every appearance, she was also so simple and obvious
as long as they are complicated and involved herumzudeuteln to appear - And then make an awkward
solution to this selbstgewundenen node. The obvious - By self-evident - through its conditions
are explanatory - it seems long-winded explanation - such as the fact that no one is quite so alike.
The psychological difference between the people, he said it - that
each Man between man and woman "oscillate," and the degree of this
"oscillation" clear their differences.

This is also the changing physical appearance is due! This is like, for example, "some People in the
evening `male 'as' the morning, - quite understandable ... The rape of all appearances by
formulas against the buck, this mostly by its very nature, causes gradually the impression of a dominant
maniacal performance. Amazing is the superficiality with which the characteristics of "maleness"
and "femininity" listed be. It means, for example, as the feature "masculine" women, that - studying,
sports and drive - do not wear corsets! If this is really "the signs of male plants" - not
perhaps rather the results of a rational propaganda?

Of course - Nietzsche has already read in the newspaper of the women and their masculinization
it fears the "uglification of Europe"!

By the way, does not Weininger as against that Masculinization on, only he called masculinization
Schlechtweg everything right because of humanization shall be called and the man at least as needful
as the woman. All culture is yes then, to differentiate the Archaic to lift up the individual to the mere
genus sphere and in this sense is any plain femininity, but also each only a refined masculinity
and deeper humanity give way, without but the owner, irreplaceable, survival necessary to disclose
the genus and species of their own species - as Weininger in his Hatred of female nature in particular
and to the continuation of the species in the other - required. But that his blind denial of the female leads
him up in the final analysis, to advocate a general humanization - he calls them also falsely
"masculinization" - Gives permission to him and his work as a part "of that power that always
the Evil will, and always creates the good "to consider.

After these preliminaries, prolix, the author finally comes to that question, the (!) "Theoretical
and practical solution, this book is dedicated" - namely, the Woman Question - "Unless you"
- wait for it on the curious clause - theoretically " a question of anthropology and economics,
so the social sciences in the broadest sense, practically a matter
of law and economic policy, social policy.

" This is but they in an eminent way! refrain from their economic background, is, a metaphysical
concept that comes into consideration only in the end, instead of truly driving, iron Motives
of the women's movement set - the imperious, economic Reasons - the opposite of the tragic disparity between
the prosperous, useful, unused power and material hardship or dependency could not refuse
any longer. But not the economic, social, moral aspirations of the women's movement Weininger
will know called emancipation - but - (you rate surprised by what else still remains) - "the phenomenon
of the will of the woman - the man` "internally to be equal '. But it has not so!

You do not come again and again with the absurd phrase, which one of the women's movement (and
of social democracy) mistakenly placed in the mouth and culminate in the crude formula: all should
"be the same!" Waiver of individual variation, which alone is life appealing and made more evocative,
is intended neither the women's movement nor the Social Democrats, by like or similar economic
and social development opportunities require for each individual.

 Last year
I sailed with him in the Swanne, alone."

"You did not have any very stirring adventures?"

"No, we were mainly bent on exploring; but for all that we carried off many prizes, and might,
had we been pilgrims, have bought farms in Devonshire, and settled down on our share of the
prize money; but there, that is not the way with sailors. Quick come, quick go, and not one
in a hundred that I have ever heard of, however much he may have taken as his share of prizes,
has ever kept it, or prospered greatly therefrom."

It was now evening, and many of the men had betaken themselves to the water, for a swim. The
heat had been great all day, and as it was their last, they had been pressed at work to get
the stores, which had been landed, again on board ship; and to finish all up, ready for the
division of the party, next day.

"I do not care for bathing here," Ned said, in reply to a sailor, who asked him why he too
did not join in the sport. "I confess that I have a dread of those horrible sharks, of which
we have heard so much, and whose black fins we see from time to time." Untouchable reverence to
demand for the past and has been, often even no other reason than just because it dead and gone,
it seems to me a violent concentration of all the criticism and hence the Possibility of further
development and will definitely blind glorification of the past and principled condemnation of all becoming
and the future, as this effectively in Weininger's book shows quite striking: for 150 years
- so he claims - that Germany without great artists and great thinkers without. A very bold statement!
And how do they tolerate with his attitude to Wagner, whom he called the greatest genius of all
time?

If he means to support this bold assertion, by executing, one must always access to the works of the
classics, one has to put up as Klopstock repeatedly to feel impatient to expectation in reading
(?!), he should not the example have placed too convincing! For 150 years no poet in Germany,
so important would be as captivating and inspiring - Klopstock!

Reverence for the past conditional, however, according to Weininger, especially reverence for
himself, against its own past. Yes, but why should she be absolutely adored with reverence,
as this history whatsoever? And it's really a "feature of the excellent Man "that he" solemn attention
the seemingly most trivial things from his Life has a value attributed? As much as it is instructive,
in the incidental, "seemingly minor" to identify the driving factors of development, perhaps little
more impetus consequences - So it must seem greatly exaggerated, a "solemn" Even with such
a cult memories drive, for if so then the above-mentioned too faithful memory of the "real"
woman to ball and love adventure and the solemn care with which this
memory alleged is maintained, even "a feature of outstanding people."

But no, because the woman is from the piety, which already from the
example of - to see widows be with their reverence for the departed
husband is it so bad that the Frevlerinnen sometimes even take a second.

That

the Indian widows were burned with reverence to the place of death in the previous Husband considerate
the dark, heavy door, which is booming according to the Indian idea divorced from life behind
the closed to absorb, thus probably prove their "masculinization" met (for the same Höherstehung)
to the cheeky spirit of enlightenment Europeans? Why ask for a special reverence for the widow
her late husband should be, if not in his lifetime an intimate relationship between husband and wife
There was, is not really clear. But this was the case, remains a loyal and warm, painful memories,
so often a never to end suffering and often a banner fanatical devotion to the dead people,
for which supply sufficient examples of legend and history. Retrieved from "noble women" that
the widow hood never took off, we are already told in the reading book, but the widower is bleak
yet been reported. How are things with his piety?

Out of respect for the past, but also explain the desire for immortality, which alleged the
women "completely lacking." On the contrary, most have it. But the Immortality, and even the
explanation of the (easily understandable) desire for psychological immortality that Weininger
finds correct in feeling reasons, can still not faith in an individual life after death to
that type, who does not has, if he ever so strongly feels the need then, for reasons feel no change
Tittle of the view of reason.

Of course the woman has no logic. It knows neither logical "law" nor moral "Duty". "So it has
absolutely no ego. "The absolute (?) Woman has no ego." This is According to the author "one
last, with all analysis of the woman out." As a historical Support his view he refers to - the
Chinese! Since ancient times they speak the woman from his own soul. They are among only the
boys, they have only daughters, so consider they are the childless - the Chinese! Now we know what
we have to do it!

By the way, you go with us too in this regard quite to Chinese: you but recently in Las a daily newspaper
in a report on the Italian royal couple, it seems to readers "Should" get closer to human, Queen
Elena was at her first birth to the King and asked her mother "with tears in his eyes" forgiveness
"that the child Girl was! Chinese friends can therefore be satisfied.

That have been among the church fathers Augustine a higher opinion of woman as Tertullian and
Origen is the intimate relationship of the first attributed to his mother. It seems So the
valuation of private experiences of women to hang out, so we will also inform Heartless, selflessness
can reassure etc.; also about the "Verhältnislosigkeit" of the woman.

Namely W has "no relation to - follows" Now any phenomenon (truth, Ethics, shame, pity, etc.)
- a recurring phrase.

The soul of man - man of the people, of course - was a microcosm: he had "everything" in itself and
therefore could be anything, depending on what he "is in favor," max or Tiefststehender, animal,
plant, or even wife! (Yes, but - noted in parenthesis - as experienced because only one because
he only one or the other is really what is "everything" in it?) "But the woman can never become
a man," Woe, woe about it! In fact, she is actually nothing but a "rudimentary man!" The "end"
to the whole man is their natural failed. Sun Strindberg in its apotheosis of Weininger's work,
you as the opinion cite an authority hears again and again: an almost laughable notion that
someone as Authority to call in a case heard, a glorification of his own, world famous fixed idea,
his own manic performance without the mention of his name does not can be called mean. Strindberg,
who for over thirty years prior to the widest Public "in woman suffering" (known to the Nietzsche-word
"alive" fits suffer to vary), - as a critical authority for a book of women hate! Yes, he, Strindberg,
has the tendency of the book and those relating to her comments seriously! But Strindberg, who once was
a great poet, takes now legends for specific events, see hallucinations for reality, believes
himself surrounded by ghosts everywhere and thinks of himself, his former atheism sake, for
a hell of a roast, for Satan himself (in incarnate Figure!) Reaches out and claws which he believed
to be able to escape only through penitential Return to the fold - Church! Is he really authority,
and even there, where his own Sorrowful delusion is eligible?

The depth and width of the entire plan of the book, the sinking in all disciplines of science seems
like a tragic Versprengung the best people, if the tangible results, - The sayings of those
known to cause this dive down to the source of all wisdom hears: "The Think of the woman is
a kind of taste, "or" itself is the fantasy of woman mistake and lie, "the man on the other hand
only higher truth! Any man can become a genius although some in the first hour of his death!
(It thus losing any hope!) Yes, the Woman is not even anti-moral, because that would require "a
relationship to" morality, - But it "is immoral," in common. Also, the compassion and the modesty
of women connected solely with their sexuality. "The old woman is never a spark of that alleged
More goodness. "Really? I know old women who like women priests - so good, so wise, so sublime
- Appear! Just read the article "The old woman," the "in Hedwig Dohm's book The mothers' [4]
is included! Verstattet one but the woman only to those interests and duty cycle, with the
their sexuality is connected, then indeed fades with this her whole content! Is it then but
with their "investment" or her education, the blame for this barbarous Oppression? - The author
seems to "his views about" the woman, provided they are not belong to the girl to have brought out tea
party: converses "A woman, or chattering, but she does not talk. "Mrs meetings, lectures and
wife on the day of the party whole civilized world popular women's associations, which in its propaganda
probably not a Customs would continue, they would take pains not strict objectivity, provide
eloquent Testament to the durability of this statement. The suitability of women to health care
- Evidence of their compassion? On the contrary. The man has only pity, because he "could Pain
of the sick look on not .. Suffering and death do not join. " And the doctor? Is it a kind of
effeminate beast, because he can witness the pain of the sick?

  

[4] S. Fischer Verlag, Berlin.

Even "modest only is the man! He knew it! As proof of claims are made, that fit perhaps to
prostitutes, but which I have seen in decent women have never .. Also that the individual man has
no interest in the nakedness of another man, is taken wrong, especially since exercise in all healthy
young people out of hand and it has been so interested in the physical education of others. This
interest, respectively condemn the enjoyment of their body as shamelessness is a view that that
of fanatical mysticism of the middle ages corresponding to only the
"spirit" recognized, without to remember that the same in a miserable
body should also degenerate.

W is heartless, only M has soul. Proof: "Nothing makes M as happy as if it on Girl loves, even if
they did not keep him tied up from the beginning, then it is a risk to catch fire, for it very
great. "touching! Touching! Therefore, the millions of abandoned loving Girls and women! - There
are plenty of "signs of real meanness," to the woman, for example, the envy of the mothers
when their daughters marry the other rather than their own.

Not afraid terrified that the only card to foolishly put the whole future was lost, speaks of
these mothers - but "genuine meanness.

Infinity remains that those sayings give an almost incredible blindness. But It urges us to come
to the main point, namely the division of the famous women in mothers and prostitutes. Both genera
are of Weininger valued equally, even the despicable seems after his presentation yet, "the"
mother. Proof that every woman in one of his categories heard he does, like all "his respect to
real facts" evidence, rather easily.

But since he already "the willingness to be touched fleetingly or« - »Whore instincts" is the
name, yes, then what on earth is the man who usually have very different "Willingly has similarities"?

As
for prostitution, says Weininger, such a phenomenon must "in nature of the human female are "such
a tendency must" in a woman organically from birth to lie! leaving "Now I almost patience quiet criticism.
How? Not in the inexorable driving down poverty, the destitute, in the miserable wages of female labor,
the Stellenlosigkeit, celibacy, in a word, not in the fundamentals of our beautiful, from the man
for the man-made social "order" is the cause of prostitution, but
in the taste for this joyous work!

Must not, in fact, lie in the nature of such men a penchant for prostitution,
that without coercion, without so to seek for bread, but of free choice
of their best nights Spend years with sexual excesses?

With childlike simplicity, is asked why the poor man not related to
prostitution Livelihood choose!

Why?

First, because he finds more bodies than woman.

Second, because it would make it bad business, as the number of women,
the male endure prostitutes have the need, after all (although there
is her) is a low.

Third, because of his "dishonest" trades for the con man, swindler,
con man has more opportunity than woman.

Fourth, finally, because he physically could not afford.

This is expressed brutal, but the outrageous question necessitates unequivocal answer!

By the way, any "single" girl has her pimp, and is certainly not higher than the prostitute himself
the contrary, infinitely deep under her!

The controversy is but almost - shameful, if it is claimed by the prostitute instinct that part
in every woman put to prove "that a last remnant of sexual activity
of any Son to his mother runs out!

"

A statement of almost hideous degeneration!

The "mother" by the way am intellectually very deep. It is despicable, because their love indiscriminately
and intrusive, because they possess blind affection for "everything that according to her by
an umbilical cord was connected. " "Important people can therefore only ever a prostitute ! Love "remarkable
and very nice characteristics that have" important people.

Of course "Supported" it all back to the blind entrenchment in their own ridiculous division. That
there are people - human female - is that "except" mother or prostitute
nor an artist or merchants, sporting creatures or botanists, embroidery
artists or mathematicians and are a hundred other their innermost
of assessments, says the author was revealed.

But he reported subtle differences between prostitute and mother of
the girl lying on the only man the mother to the child.

Wrong!

The prostitute is usually nothing on the man, but only on the money, and the mother is certainly
not only the child but also the father of the child, providing that
the Only a true father.

In endless, tedious length, an enterprise varies "sentence" repeats entangled, and released. Some
interesting parallel flash in the process, for example, between Conquerors and great prostitute,
both of which are perceived as God's scourges. Delicious is the involvement in their own twisted
threads, for example, there is spoken about fidelity:

Indeed, if the unfaithful wife, it is because they did "not enraptured
of temporality I added, "therefore" completely thoughtless "and without"
understanding of the binding force of a contract.

But if the man unfaithful, it is only because he does not have to be intellegibles I words can
come! (And where is his "understanding of the binding force of a treaty?" It sleep well now?)

If
it is true, it is just his nature intellegiblen sake.

But if it is true, then she is out of "bondage instinct" - like a dog "running after ... full
instinctive, tenacious devotion! "

Prize question: how should it be so, loyal or disloyal to look less contemptible?

A surprisingly deep-rooted confusion in the brain of a twenty-three, a true Phenomenon of a rat
king! So confident is often the exact opposite of the truth argued that they caused only by the
eye-catching absurdity to the refutation is. The myth of Leda is cited as proof that the woman
more inclined to sodomy was when the man! But what proves the myth to reality? Anyone who uses still
- in the East this is the norm - goats, horses, hens to a sexual Abuse - man or woman?

After the initiation of a chain of evidence, this usually stopped right in the middle and unproven
is the Final attached, "while awaiting the decisive turn yet. Thus, for Example, explained that
women feel most afraid of male nudity, and This is - you amazed!
- Regarded as evidence "that the women not love the beauty do, but
- something else "by the love they will probably want to love, and
hope to find "the" beauty in it.

The foregoing discussion of male and female nudity are almost obscene
brutality and an almost savage hatred met with all course-sex. Even
the debate at all that these operations and its institutions "beautiful"
or "can not be beautiful," reveals a false position because it is
dealing with natural necessity, which by its very eminent purpose
for such an evaluation not suitable. He is a "mystery" why the woman
is being loved by the man! Why the woman? Yes, because the man is
to love only hens, goats, horses or boys? And why is because "just
loved the man" of the woman? Probably because only these two Types
are people. Weininger knows the way to this "mystery" why the woman
is loved, a highly poetic explanation: namely, the Incarnation was
the man with a "metaphysical Act "(?) The soul to keep for yourself
alone! For what motive virtue is "certainly more not "in sight! (Really?
Maybe can bring out's of algebra?) This He lost his wrong now in love,
through which he seeks to return their "stolen the soul"! He asks
so off his debt by the suffering of love! But wait! How is it, if
she loves him? What she calls him from the suffering of their love?

Will
she also a "stolen gift soul"? But really, she has none! Hastily gathering
round him, they lifted his body from the ground, and shuddered at seeing how great a pool of
blood was gathered where he had been standing. It seemed almost as if, with the fall of their
captain, the courage which had animated these men, and would animate them again in fighting
against ever so great odds, had for the moment deserted them.

In spite of the orders of Captain John, that four or five should carry his brother to the boats;
and that the rest should seize, without delay, the treasures of gold and diamonds in the Treasury,
and carry off as great a weight as they might bear, none paid attention. The young men believe,
depending on your faith or your denial. The young girls are punishment or frivolous, as are the
women that your glorified. "

    
Joergensen has completely right here. His view is entirely
mine. Yes, I would even go far beyond his own, also. The
poet and writer has a larger wide, either creative or destructive,
purifying or polluting impact than most People realize. If
it is true that the newer Psychology claims, namely
"not individuals, Drama is man, "we may the activity of the
writer perhaps even a creative rather than only call a creative.
Because I am quite aware am, I am also of the immense
responsibility aware of the rest of us who write as soon as
we resort to the spring. So often I have this latter
do, I do it in the sincere intention, as a creative
artist only good, but never to create bad things.
One can So imagine how surprised I was when I learned I want
the publishers of HG Muenchmeyer "abysmally immoral "books
should have written. The Term "abysmally immoral" is Cardaun
whose Peculiarity, it is well known, as opponents in the
most exaggerated aggravations to endure. When he then
All proven, not just "proved to the evidence," not devised,
but "refined devised" not distorted, but "distorted
beyond recognition." Therefore, these sufficed Muenchmeyerschen
novels because they were supposedly from me, the simple word
"Immoral" not, but it was quite Of course, that they
had to be equal "abysmally immoral."

The first trace of these my "impropriety" Over There
appeared in the United States. Pustet Commerce, which has branches
over there, wrote me about this rumor and wished that I to say anything
about it.

    I did. I replied I knew nothing of impropriety and
the matter will be examined if it would have to
be even court. The result, I'll tell him then. This was for
him, settled the matter. He was a Honorable man, a man
of spirit and heart, which it never occurred would be to run
through back doors. We had each other much. On him falls
certainly not even the slightest trace of guilt at
the indescribably filthy and disgusting passionate Smear
campaign against me. Because the rumor came from America,
Over There, I had to do research first. This required
long time and it was impossible for me, something Specific
experience. I just knew that the Rumor on my Muenchmeyerschen
novels, referred but I found no one who was able
to give me the to refer to chapters or passages in which the
immorality was. And in a mere, vague rumor all five novels,
or about eight hundred signatures to Things that I do not know,
durchzuforschen tedious, this I had no time
in unnecessary, and that was me not at all unreasonable.
Those who possessed the courage to tell me accuse,
who had the immoral digit precision and was obliged
to know, to me indicated. Then I waited. It came forward but no
one who did it. Also Pustet did not. He probably knew
the alleged impropriety as little as I do. Sorry I was forced
after a while, to him my recite workforce for the second time.
The first Time I had done it, when Henry Keiter was still
alive. This had me very much of my work shortened,
without asking my permission. I Corrections and cuts
never be tolerated. The reader should I know the way I
am, with all faults and weaknesses, but not me as the
editor zustutzt. So I told Pustet that it from me a manuscript
was to be expected. He tried I change her letter, but in vain.
Since he came, the old gentleman, personally to
Radebeul. This was touching, but also had no success. He
then sent his nephew, the very Of course with the same
negative results, because both of them but it was not
that had sold out to my right. Then came the Correct,
Heinrich Keiter He promised himself to me that It should
never happen again, and then I took my refusal back.
It gave me some of the Page today to not forget.
It expresses the follows from: "Heinrich Keiter has kow
Karl May have to make. "I have over here Letters are
not habitual hands. But he was themselves to blame, not
me. I'm Henry Keiter respected, as everyone respected
him. I recognize all his contributions to, and I'm still sorry
that I then was forced to show character. It was otherwise.
I had the book form of my "Reiseerzaehlungen" according to the
texts of the "treasure house" Print and could therefore
not have to admit that in my Manuscripts was herumgeaendert.

Later
I wrote for my Pustet vierbaendigen Novel "In the realm
of the Silver Lion". I was grad gets to the end of
the second volume, as I got a laundry list of friendly
editors the "treasure house" is sent, the contents
of me prompted to repeat my former refusal. I Pustet
telegraphed that I hard at work must stop and not another
word for him to write am. He had even located in his hands,
yet unpublished manuscript send back what I sent him back
to the attributable fee. I would not say a word here about
when me not long ago, albeit from very humble Side,
threatened with revelations of that time BEEN
MADE. I have noticed about the opportunity here establish the
truth. And I ask also further proof, that I with Mr Counselor
Blow personally and had never been broken sincere joy and satisfaction
felt when he after a series of about ten years, his current Treasure
house editor, Mr. Koenig real Lichen Council Dr. Otto thought to me
by Leinfelder Hotel Muenchen sent to get me back staff to "treasure
house" are.

    I told him then the "I Dschinnistan of" written.

This brings me to the accusations made of me Cardaunsschen
"abysmal immorality" preceded and are now returning to them
to this matter to go to ground and root. The reason
is called Muenchmeyer, and root words as well. The here
related facts are a over thirty years of Chain, the
rings logical, business and legal intimately intertwined.
The most of them is proved. Something else is in the file in order
to the are drawn to light. I'm not willing to prejudice
to existing processes, and will therefore only discuss
those points, over the full clarity prevails.

I
have already said that my Muenchmeyer Criminal history knew. He
even knew All you had added anything. He wished
very much that I have a Roman would like to write about here,
but I declined the chose from. I'm surrounded by
his family and Known not hide my past, but quite at ease about
it and my views about criminals and crime, guilt,
punishment and Prison explained in detail. Not a
single member Muenchmeyerschen the family may not claim to
have known about it. The workers of the company learned
it, compositors, printers, and all others, as is the assisting
writers. "May is punished, he has sat, "that reached soon
quieter, sometimes louder, but everywhere by. So it is
fundamentally wrong, now, now of sudden "Revelations" or even from
my "exposure" to .

    Speak Anyone who claims to have unmasked me who
is lying.

It is important that a very pronounced Muenchmeyer
COMMERCIAL preference punished for grad employees had.
Assuming the writer and the writers by those who have written
for him, so are the Punished a very significant percentage
of them. I noticed soon after I told him at BEEN MADE.
Walter also be Hauptfaktotum in which he had done all
that was supposed to know what no one was criminal record.
Right after I took over the editorial he brought me
a Vienna postal officials, who sold out at the box office
had a staff.

    When similar cases and I repeated it to his Reasons
asked, he replied: "With a writer, has been punished,
can do, what you will, for he feared that his criminal
history revealed to be. "" So I? "I exclaimed, astonished
about the sincerity. "Nonsense!" he replied. "With Them
this is something else entirely. We are friends! And you're
not an ordinary human being with can make what you
want! Even if I were you not truly have love, you Zoege
to the Coming Soon! "He made an effort, which awakened in
me to eliminate mistrust, but it did not quite and
also contributed to the fact that I announced disappear
and gave up because of the marriage offer the editors. Even
later, when after six years, the "Sea-Dogs" for he began
to write, this concern emerged against him again in me. But
the unusual position he is in my personal and business admits,
the exemption fee, which he paid me and above all the
objections which my wife made at every opportunity against my suspicion
that all had a meaning that I finally to my former Confidence returns.

    

I from my novels Muenchmeyerschen to read and no corrections
including my manuscripts not got back, I have already
mentioned. So I could not check whether the pressure with
my original manuscript are identical. But was been
promised to me here so determined honesty that I was ruled
out for a scam. The fact that Muenchmeyer can later say
again, my novels All rights not only to the twenty-thousandth
acquired subscribers, but for ever to have appeared,
me as impossible, firstly because I had all of his Letters
repealed, in which he All we writing were identified
with each other, gradually repeated, and second, I also had
another most valid Proof in hand that he had
rights not forever possessed. He had made the written test,
these rights to purchase or after installation. He
had the done by a lapel, he me by that Walter factotum convicted
and sent for signature let present. But I pointed this
extraordinarily smart messengers back his lapel. This
Walter It was also, by which I always to my questions
written or oral assurance was given that the twenty thousand
had not been achieved. Besides, I had not the slightest
concern, not about my rights yet to my "fine gratuities.
My rights were sure, and were now in Muenchmeyers pecuniary
relationship so that, as I thought, more were just as
zahlungsfaehig. That he bad going Novels lost again what he
flourishing deserved, and that he admitted to bills of
exchange had been harmed by which its financial strength,
arg, I knew nothing of it. So I was convinced, quiet
to be able to wait and no reason to have early and to ask
about abusive claims. Besides, my wife was so completely
against everything COMMERCIAL doings to push for that I
now also the external domestic peace had to be concerned if I
was against Muenchmeyer not as forgiving as they wished.

    Publishers also say the popular fiction that
it was much harder in their books and much requires longer
time than with other publishers, demonstrate how much
we've fixed subscribers. It jump from which resistant,
and which are resistant added, so I was patient.

In 1891 I met my current publisher FE Fehsenfeld, Freiburg,
Breisgau know. I gave him the book publisher in the Pustet in
Regensburg published works and agreed with him, according
to these then publish the Muenchmeyerschen. He took immediately
awarded in the first attack, and they left. We were both
convinced that with the Muenchmeyerschen would not have less
success, featured the latter, but until the age of breath
Chen Series back. Each of the two series was thirty Volumes
include. What was missing because I had added attribute.
This led to the breath for approximately Czech Series ten volumes,
which I had yet to deliver. This was a Work, which left me
no time for me now to my Muenchmeyerschen troubling
things. So I had to the unexpected news that suddenly Muenchmeyer
died, may do business completely indifferent. I asked
only for his successor, and as I heard that his widow on
behalf of the business Heirs for Further, I was relieved
for me.

Then something surprising. Pauline Muenchmeyer sent me a messenger
of the order had auszuforschen me if I might be inclined
going to write her a new novel. This messenger was also
a "offenders". I had him empty- Thing going again, without
the cause of his mission particularly think. I did not know then
what I learned only much later, namely that
with Muenchmeyers was not as shiny as I thought. Man had a family
council was held and the Resolve passes through a new novel by
Karl May improve the situation. I had neither the time nor
the inclination to write it, but decided for the event
that they would renew the attempt, but in negotiations stand
up to the successes of my previous novels to read something.
And Repeat the test came. Mrs. Muenchmeyer turned himself
personally and for us one. She attended us repeatedly. She asked.
They even offered prepayment the fee. They also sent the
factotum Walter and had to write letters by him. I made
the decision, I can not deliver something new rather than
been made up over the old full clarity is. I should
definitely know first, as with the Number of subscribers of my
five novels stand, the twenty thousand must surely have
been reached long ago.

    Woman Muenchmeyer promised decision. She invited
me and my wife for dinner in to there to give this
approval. We are a featured. They admitted that the twenty
thousand were achieved, and indeed in all novels, not only
one, only there must first be calculated exactly even
be, and that was immensely popular fiction in the Sun difficult
and time consuming. I like me so be patient . Take As to my rights,
then these me hereby again, I could now quite
the novels for use me. Then I asked them to my to send
manuscripts for which I share, and print will allow. She
said that had burned, it would I send in its place
the printed novels and before they can bind extra for me in leather.
The happened. After a short time the books came through the
Post: I was again master of my works - - - so I thought!
Of course it was impossible for me, they immediately issue,
because the breath Chen to appear before had.


Thus, when the band of English fell upon the Spaniards in the galleon--who were some six times
as numerous as themselves--naked to the waist, with hair streaming back, with all their faces
wild with pain, brandishing their heavy axes, and with a shout rushed upon their foes drawn
up in regular order; the latter, after a moment or two of resistance, began rapidly to fall
back. Their officers, in vain, shouted to them to stand firm. In vain they taunted them with
falling back before a handful of men. In vain even turned their swords against their own soldiers.

It was useless. Those in front, unable indeed to retreat, were cut down by the heavy axes.
Those behind recoiled, and after but a few minutes' fighting, some began to leap down the hatchways;
and although the fight continued for a short time, isolated groups here and there making resistance,
the battle was virtually won in five minutes after the English appeared on deck. The captain
and his two principal officers were killed, fighting bravely; and had their efforts been in
any way backed by those of their men, they would have made short work of the assailants.

Captain Drake's voice was heard, high above the din, as soon as the resistance ceased. There were rumors about
me spread the sometimes ridiculous, sometimes unscrupulously were.
They read in the newspapers that I did are not in the
East, but because of me malignant disease in iodine
baths Tölz, Upper Bavaria, hidden have. If I would have guessed
that the falsehood in this, spiteful and malicious, a full
decade will continue, I would but my journey be stopped
and turned quickly back home. If I would have done
that, so I had all the inhuman Torture and torment that I during
this long Time have suffered, been spared. Unfortunately, I
did not then, what with my novels The procedure was
and what the main idea Muenchmeyerschen Business had circulated
about me and now still circulating. I thought things
even from the Can remotely attach to, and held nothing more
for necessary as an accurate information from
which the embark on a step would have to surrender. I
wrote So home to my wife in Egypt with Ploehn would like,
where I meet in Cairo with them come would. They came
very late, because Ploehn had become ill on the road. What
I they learned was by no means cheap and sound also
very vague. The lawyer was always yet only in the preparations.
Fischer had said that to defend to the utmost
to do, my novels he had purchased from Mrs. Muenchmeyer,
saying they are to be vested, cash-paid property with
which he could do what he wanted to do. The papers were
taken against me. My Muenchmeyerschen Novels have been described
as pulp novels. I saw one that a process to deal with
not Muenchmeyers was and asked my wife to the purpose
for me necessary documents.

I have already said that I Muenchmeyers Letters
had been abolished. Its content was for a Trial of
Muenchmeyer such concrete proof that I it had to win outright.
These letters were in addition other equally important
things in a certain Desk box store.

    I had before my Check out my wife on this box and
its contents been particularly attentive to it the
purpose of Letters particularly explained and they asked
for it to ensure that's not the least of which Blaettchen
be lost. When I inquire about this now in Cairo Documents
asked, she assured me that they still remember Sun were
in the custody, as I have it handed over. No man they
have touched. That calmed me down, because it meant
certainly gained the process. When my wife told me such insurance
was, was this woman and Ploehn heard it. She looked at
large, but said nothing. The I then fell on not, but later
when I This large, astonished, disapproving look, reminded
I knew all too well what he had to say. My wife was in fact
one evening to Mrs. Ploehn come, and had told her that she
just our Marriage certificate was burnt, the omen
because, which might attribute. And for some time was
later they told her in the same laughing manner, that they
now also the documents from the desk box made and I burned
it wants to prevent the fact that I Muenchmeyers sue. Mrs. Ploehn
was shocked over here been, but was an accomplished
fact not to able Change. Now, as it the assurances
of my Woman had to listen to the letters still virgin were
available, there was in it the first crack at that
inner divorce, only then also externally to light occurred
when nothing could be concealed. We traveled to Egypt, Palestine,
Syria, about Constantinople, Greece and Italy home. While
this time my wife to repeated requests always stuck with it,
that the documents completely would still be intact in that
box. You finally became angry and forbade any further
Mention. But when I got home and my first Step at a desk,
I found the box - - - Empty! Over here held accountable she
explained that she burned the letters, however, and was
destroyed. She was always a friend Muenchmeyers and have
it be today. They know, I'm right, but they do not tolerate
that I Muenchmeyers sue. Therefore they have the
papers burned. One can imagine how I was mute, but I controlled
myself and did what I for years to do in such cases
usual, I was quiet, took his hat and left.

Meanwhile, the press attacks against me become more numerous
and obvious. Man accused me at the same time pious and immoral
to have written. I took her novels, which I Woman had
Muenchmeyer can be integrated, and found that they had
deviated from my original manuscripts and had changed them.
So why was the one Manuscripts burned, rather than set aside
for me! I should not be able to demonstrate the changes!
The first thing I did was that I inform the press informed
and asked them to judicial decision to be seen. Then
I made haste action. I did not want the matter by way
of civil, but pursue the criminal trial met, yet on such Resistance
at my wife that I did without it. I asked myself on several
attorneys, not only in Dresden, but also in Berlin and elsewhere.

    I would have so much directly because of the same
"Abyss of impropriety" that accused me were sued,
but has assured me unanimously, that this was impossible.
An action can not ideal things addressed, but rather grounds
would have to materially be. I have to prove all things
that I am the lawful owner of the novels is, and therefore
possess the right to sue. The best way is to the application
addressed to "accounting". The happened.

About this time was that the purchaser of Muenchmeyerschen
shops, Mr. Fischer, with me reported. I had no good reason,
it be dismissed, he was accepted. The interview was a very
interesting, both psychologically and procedurally. Fischer
made no secret of the fact that he knew that I was convicted.
He said such a tow who I am rocking, which is expected to
be extremely cautious in to That process otherwise the
matter could very easily to another End take than
you think. My novels are now his property. You've already
changed earlier, and now he let reprocess them all over
again, just the way as he liked. If I proceed against him,
railroad could take longer than ten years, but until then
I had long ago kaput. But he was come to me to lend a hand
to avoid all this trouble. I should pay him seventy thousand
marks, he would decline to my novels and deliver them
to me with all the rights. Then it was easy for me, all
the excitement of the press against me to silence with
a single blow to bring.

    He offers his help to do so. He knew more than
I suspect. He knew the whole Muenchmeyerei. They told
him everything. But under seventy thousand Mark he
could not do without, because he had Mark hundertfuenfundsiebzigtausend
paid.

It is quite natural that I to this Proposal not received.
I explained that I have no will give a penny and was
determined to be action. Because he wanted to know against whom
I directed that action will, whether for or against him
Muenchmeyers widow. He advised me to the latter, because
he gave me probably because can serve as a witness
because he was with this Woman not satisfied, but stand
in perpetual conflict with her. Then he went away with the
warning, yes me with my criminal record in to take eight.

I
was willing to sue Ms Muenchmeyer. But my wife and
probably as a result, even my Lawyer am certain, from this
sight. So Fischer was then sued. But the widow seemed no
desire to have this right to trade to be eliminated. She
appeared as intervener in and to this day remains my
opponent. Succeeded me, to an injunction against Fischer
Which reach forbade him continue printing my novels. He
could only complete. In this for him very delicate situation,
he came with my lawyer and talk about lamented
the loss of him by arises, this amounts to only four thousand marks.

    If not stop, he would have to defend themselves in a
very different than before, and me through the publication of
my Criminal records in all the papers before the whole of
Germany make kaput. When my lawyer to me this threat told
me saw daylight, I began to understand and I felt
obliged to explore this terrain. There was a conversation between
Fischer and myself about, separated in a wine bar,
in private. Since he was sincere. He told me
everything he during the sale negotiations Muenchmeyers learn
about me and my novels had. I learned the whole plan
of campaign, none of which I Idea had had.

    It had been made to believe him I was convicted,
with prison because I was I plowed teachers dealing
with schoolgirls. The exceptionally fit to the charge
of newspapers, I wrote immoral novels. We need the
only to publish, so I was kaput for good. I was now
a famous man and I have before to guard such publication; that
one knows well well as I do what I know about with my
Muenchmeyer Novels have identified, be indifferent.
Muenchmeyer It was dead come down to who had to swear. May
and that the oath does not get, it will be care to know.
His previous convictions were the best help which there
is. We just need him with the publication threatening,
it certainly take back any process. You just need two lines
at him, he is quiet. "That we have in hand!"

In this way they had spoken to Fischer, and then he
had bought the business. So he assured me. The fact that
my novels have been changed were that he knew. Only he did
not know exactly by whom. Probably by Walter. The've even further
to do anything else but such things and then read the corrections
had. And that was even not hard and go very quickly.
One need only a word change or add a few words, so is
the "immorality" because without it in such Novels
now depart once will not. I could this demonstrate changes
very easily, I just need submit my original manuscripts.

"But
they are so burned!" occurred to me.

The fish was all but decided in agreement. He claimed
that they were still there. He can give me To procure,
but of course under the present circumstances not where I
was his adversary, and him with my interim injunction ruin.
He could only then be my helper and as a witness for
me to enter, if I drop this Order and with him cf.

This conversation was for me with infinite Importance. It
was important to be careful. I asked me, if I could
trust. Were the original manuscripts really still there,
so I was able, however, all accusations directed against me,
as Fischer said had to make silent at once. But he might want
to deceive me, or even deceived have been. I could not
decide hastily, I had to observe and superior to,
especially since this change my case at a time, fell in the me serious
internal struggles personnel employed in such a way that I Other for
neither time nor space could be found.

    That was the time of my divorce.

stood Frankly, I tend much to the Catholic Consideration
of marriage, that this is a sacrament was. If I would not
have this view, I would have this step done before
now and not wait until than my health, my life
and my whole to save inner and outer existence was. It
has I resented this step to a great degree, very with
injustice. Catholic critics, rather than to remain factual
matters to their attacks, the hinueberspielten personal
to me in one breath complained that I was a Protestant and
from my Wife had divorced. How illogical! Degrees because
I am considered as a Protestant, has no one the right to me to make
the second allegation.

    For each only somewhat decent people, marriage is a divorce Matter
of course for the discretion.

    The mine but it has carried in the newspapers, provided
with the most disgusting and marginal notes to the most
egregious allegations exploited. I will the all about go here
for my comments, if I am forced to them, in another place
to . Make This time was not only for me but Also for women
Ploehn an almost fatal, because her the man robbed, whom
she loved with a sacrifice, how often a man has been loved.
I already said that Ploehn on their way to Egypt had become ill.
He recovered only apparent again.

    The evil repeated after the home back was turned.
A year later came the death. Woman Ploehn almost collapsed.
Would be their mother been, it would be her husband nachgestorben
secure. Luckily, it also provided the correspondence
that they for me led to my readers, the emotional relief
and support, that she needed. They possessed Zinshaeuser
two in Dresden, which they would like against her wanted
to sell offered Landgrundstueck which to Niedersedlitz the
village belonged. There had Fischer moved its book printing.
His private residence lay. Mrs. Ploehn asked me to
visit them accompany that property, and as we now once were
in Niedersedlitz, was an obvious step, this is to let
you know Fischer.

    He invited us to his Private home, and it arose because
a Trial, which on the next day to a comparison
led.

I want to be as short as possible. Fischer complained
that he is by buying the Muenchmeyerschen have degraded
Shops for trash Publishers; he assured that he longed
out, and he claimed I can do to help him like no other.
This latter was also convinced me. He had the altered
novels, without such woman Muenchmeyer possessed the right
to sell it to him. If he made sure that my original manuscripts
got back, he could drop the trash and work issue in their
place my originals, there was him and at the same time helping
me, he was not Publishers trash anymore, and I was able to prove
that I have nothing Immoral had written. That was
the basic idea of the comparison, and when we signed him,
I was convinced that any dispute was raised. Fischer
I then testified publicly in the newspapers that the
immoral passages in my Muenchmeyerromane Excluded my spring
originate sondernvondritter Hand-carried into Worden land.

Unfortunately,
my hopes proved illusory. Fischer was not my original
manuscripts get, and they were not there, they were
really destroyed. He was therefore impossible, from a Trash
Publishers, "as he is in a letter to me referred to transform
into a book publisher. He was that an attempt, even
without my Original manuscripts to come to an original
novel to the trash can to drop it, but I had thereby
deny him the help he asked of me. He demands that of me
that I am from the trash in the memory of his former, proper
version back induce more careful, but that was in a
plethora of approximately thirty thousand closely written
pages a thing the most absolute impossibility. He insisted
on his [sic] license, on our [sic] comparison, and although he could
not afford what he had promised, I should but all do
what was just impossible because of him. This resulted
in a new dispute and a new struggles, which is about his
death and extended been kept only by his heirs to a peaceful
end is. They saw more clearly than he, and they were quiet,
unprejudiced mind. They were professionals, that Lawyers,
merchants, book printing and Bookbinding owners. They
agreed to the following Explanation:

| "In a between Mr. Karl May and | | the heirs of
the Lord Adalbert Fischer pending | | disputes have been
quite the fisherman's | | declared heirs to in the publishing company
| | HG Muenchmeyer in novels of the | | author Karl May in time |
| through insertions and variations of | | third-hand, such a sustained
alteration | | have, that in its present form not | | as written by
Karl May can apply.

    Mr. | | May is for publication this statement | | empowered.
|

| Dresden, in October 1907. |

Signed this statement of Mrs. Elizabeth verw. Fischer through
merchant Arthur Schubert, Printing press owner Otto Fischer,
bookbinding owner Alfred Sperling, Trummler lawyer,
attorney Bernstein, Lawyer Dr. Elb. Frivolous People
have claimed that this statement only by children Minors and had
been given. Man see from this also, with what weapons
you against me fights. For me, but my department
Fischer Muenchmeyerprozesses hereby dismissed. The Department
Pauline Muenchmeyer there but still. Your I am now following
in turn.

I am not afraid of this program, the department, which I learned
from fishing to move enforce namely:

| "May is a criminal, he has to |.

    We have him hide in |. hand. Two | | lines enough, he is quiet.
If he us | | sued as we make it through publication
| | of his criminal record in all the papers | | Through
Germany kaput. What May with | | has identified Muenchmeyer
is indifferent. | | The main thing is who gets the oath.
And that | | May it not gets, it will be to | |. shall
know "|

Fischer has this program not only privately expressed, but
also by his statement in the file set, and it is in the
course of the now neunjaehrigen Litigation has been continuously
confirmed. Of that Dr. Gerlach was a lawyer on behalf of
his client Pauline Muenchmeyer said anything incorrect
manner or has been denied, I will not speak here. About Me
but he did right from the very beginning as a man placed,
in the highest degree of eidesunwuerdig is. It is impossible for me
all the offensive foul enumerate here, that he now for me
ueberschuettet nine years, except I punish may be because,
as a lawyer under the protection degree of that paragraph,
is what compels me to to submit to him, allowing no
other anywhere. The judges repeatedly reproved and other lawyers
to task, it remains that his Specialty but true. To run
the Muenchmeyerschen Program it was necessary first,
to my Criminal list to arrive. For this purpose,
a Bogus libel suit, which was to be returned immediately,
achieved as the purpose was.

From that emerged in the Newspapers more or less veiled notes about my past. "I know more!"
wrote the One, "you know very well what I mean, Mr. May?" asked the other. The "Kaputmachen"
began. But the guiding spirit, the real culprit was always smart behind the bush, and he never showed
he had always by others. His field of work is far beyond his Professional duties extend beyond
his correspondence a very large, almost only on Karl May. He is with all of my literary opponents
in intimate Relationship, and where in a piece of my speech is because a letter from him or cares
for one of his Familiar and old. And you almost believe him everywhere.

Man it feels like the time the Cardaun Liar believed that made him
believe that I Muenchmeyerromane have written exactly as in the print
are published.

    

This gentleman is from the Dr. Hermann Cardaun very dark and very
ugly points, the one in the contemporary literature, history
as Karl May-baiting called inseparable. He does
not have it otherwise wanted. He stands united closely
with people to whom he not actually heard of. He also
wanted. His shattering style, his infallible expression,
its "abysmal" or "evident" double words schools have made,
particularly in those who I turn ropes around me "from
the German art hinauszupeitschen. "But all he lectures
in together and talked to me, and newspapers has co-written, is not
a solid pillar, to challenge the no one can, but one of nothing but
vague clues glued together paper dragons will hold its line, no one,
unless Mr. Cardaun itself, it certainly is a lot of blind Think necessary
to get right at it, think that my "Impropriety" also proved in other
ways can be, except through my presentation Original manuscripts.

    The verbiage does not; also Allegations remain unsuccessful,
if not proven be. We read in the essays Cardaunsschen
against me a lot about files, documents and other Evidence he possesses
about my fault, but so far I have not a single Aktenstueck and no
single document get to see.

It seems that Lord has an older Muenchmeyerschen pressure and Fischersche a later issue and
considers the first for identical to my originals. It is for me but really impossible that
a "main or Editor in Chief "Such errors can happen. I give so happy that he has no idea of
​​what it in a notorious trash and trash Publisher approaching and what the hoax is as driven,
but that is no excuse, but a burden for him, because if he does not know he should not allow
conclusions with the logic of popular fiction dirt to prefer the
one with the logic of honorable people may move.

     "If this island is, as I believe, a thickly
cultivated one, and in the hands of the Spaniards, it will go hard with us, if they find us,
after all the damage to their commerce which we have been inflicting, for the last year."

Upon getting to some rising ground, they saw, to their surprise, a large town lying on a bay
in front of them. Instinctively they paused at the sight, and both sat down, so as to be out
of view of any casual lookers on.

"What are we to do, Ned?" Gerald said. "If we stay here, we shall be starved. If we go into
the town, we shall have our throats cut. Which think you is the best?"

"I do not like either alternative," Ned said. "See, inland there are many high mountains, and
even close to the town there appear to be thickets and woods. There are houses, here and there,
and no doubt plantations. In 1864 sent Sechele from a few
hundred of his men to Sekhomo, the then King of the Bamangwato to attack. But the Makalahari-vassal
reported this time the approach of the Bakwena's and they were beaten in the valley of the Shoshone-Rivers,
before the city's Sekhomo. This force was led by Khosilintschi. Sechele apologized that he was
on the advice of raid Matscheng's the former, now volatile and arranged with him living Bamangwatokönigs
had. A further set out Sechele infamy by murdering Tschukuru's in April 1866, the father of
the present King of the Bamangwato, Khama (Sekhomo's son), guilty. In one of the shameful attempts
by the people, his two beloved sons Khama Khamane and kill, this had to flee, but later resulted
in grace, Sekhomo would exercise the followers of his sons to non-same grace, which is why
these, including Tschukuru, pointed to Sechele's invitation, took refuge in this. You Although
Sechele knew not only because they Sechele's son (a baptized) given was, they were nevertheless
persuaded by Molopolole to wander. In the first night Tschukuru woken up under the project, that
he wished to see the king's brother and as he followed the messenger, carelessly, in the forest
stabbed by armed men. Sechele This was arranged because Tschukuru in the struggle against
the invading Shoshong Bakwena hervorgethan and then to Sekhomo who hated the old man, a favor.
As Sekhomo and was replaced by the displaced fled to Sechele Mascheng and himself took refuge
in Sechele, this helped with his men, the sons Sekhomo's Mascheng, his former protege, to market.

The
following renewed fighting between Sekhomo Khama and his son, he offered his two Using the same
time, for a sum of £ 2000 in St. ostrich feathers and ivory. One of his honor past achievements
was the law adopted by him, which he some Dutch hunters gave permission for severe money to pass
through his country and in the northwestern part to hunt, yet the
Makalahari, which occupied the hunting grounds, and the leaders of
the Hunter banned to show that the water points.

Under the leadership of his Bakwena's Sons in 1876 are the Bakhatla's committed atrocities still
fresh in my mind .--

As we entered the courtyard of the royal house, we were of the rising queen a big strong woman with
a scarf tied to the back, like a large, woolen shawl and a Cattunkleid was welcomed and led
into the house. The king full title is "Sechele M'Kwase ea Morena Bakwena." [1]

1: Among the central Bechuanas change the father's name if his family is concerned with several sons,
and in this Growing up are understood by the name of the eldest son assumes, as is currently the
chief of the eastern Bakhatla Ra-Piti, that the father (Ra) of Piti (his eldest son), while the
mother of his youngest son accepts, that means the Queen or Sechele's
wife, Ma Sebel, ie (Ma or M ') of the mother Sebel.

    
    
    We were first out of Sechele in the reception room, while Ma-Sebel
    the job was to prepare us some food. The reception room (Sechele used
    the English term "Drawing-room," except that he speaks in an irregular
    way) is totally with European Comfort set up chairs, etc. made of
    walnut, the seat cushion with red velvet covered. A self-conscious
    smile, caused by the high opinion of himself, especially when he
was in his drawing-room, which is already friendly smiling play around
full face of the Bakwena ruler, it is often a white man the interior
of his palace demonstrate the ability, and can revel in the amazement
of the stranger - even me, a poor Mortal has the good fortune to be
part of looking there.

As we settle down, had to be submitted to the king until his handkerchief (which he but does
not seem to use) from the chosen one of his chair before he was to same settling. Sebel-Ma was
later used, and settled on a wooden chair. Through my two companions asked me Sechele to the
purpose of my trip, in my and the nationality of my companions. Because he, like most of the
Bechuanaland's only "Englishman" and "Boers" knew, the first looked like the latter "did not love,"
he was very surprised to hear that I have a white Konne without belonging to one of the two
nations.

Finally He had the word stamped "Austria" and he asked to what river I live and whether in
a city or on a cattle post, ie in the country. I called Prague, for him a new mystery and
more so, than I, about the size of the city after Betschuanabegriffen present, informed him that
his Prague residence Molopolole twenty times in size to meet. He said his "heart was full of
amazement at the large village" and after which he translated Words of my companion nachgesprochen,
he told the queen, the patterns of gracious me seemed that the whole episode with the words: "He
(pointing to me) is a Naka (Njake, Njaga or Njaka, ie Doctor) no Englishman, no Boer (Bur he said),
but - here saw He re-questioning, but also smiling face of Mr Price, who nodded and also said
Au - Strian - O - O - stri - en babbled, after His Majesty, and got up to in the throw chest,
as he succeeded in this.

A new comer, laughing and both missionaries welcoming, was now on the threshold visible, it was
about 14 years old, lanky, with shirt, vest and trousers dressed young man, who wore a red
woolen stocking cap. He laughed at what all spoken was named as his mother - for the handsome
young man with the beret on the woolly His head was not a regulator as Sebel, the youngest,
or Ma-Sebel darling baby (heart child) - I present with the words Mon Sebel o Th [= o]-li
[) ng] B [) e] b deigned. After half an hour It fell suddenly to the young king's son, to communicate
his mother that the tea in the dining room was applied.

Sechele then opened the train, we followed Sebel and Ma-formed the rearguard. We were all in the
best sense of humor - especially me and Tholing - I because I for the first time in two months Tholing
Beb and because he was the second time that morning the "cake" of Makoa (the Cake of the white man
saw). But he was lucky not to part, like us to sit round the table and he was determined the "honors"
to make what he was pretty seemed to understand well.

The dining room had a beautiful covered with white linen table, the tea was in the cup-shaped
Served up cups, of which the king, who was sitting on top of the table, at least one liter might take.
The jugs, sugar bowl and the rest on a side-table standing tableware was made of silver, and
as I heard, the king of the periodically in Molopolole resident merchants were revered. The
tea was good and the cake did not want to left. Our conversation in the drawing-room and I
continued on the demeanor of the English government in the diamond
fields and that of the Dutch in Pretoria and Bloemfontein interviewed.

Your black majesty seemed not interested in our conversation and began to see at first quietly and secretly,
but as gradually the nature of them gained the upper hand, notable and audible, through their
commitment in our little court's broken employment resume that is, to lie dormant. The Lord of marriage
husband saw this and as he perhaps unduly thought he was her first with a cough and when this
did not help at times by a to understand his delicate touch with the Elephant feet committed breach of
etiquette.

I had trouble keeping all my funny bone in check and finally mastered the temptation as I wrote
to the king to speak.

»Morena! When I was a boy of thirteen years and for the first time the books Naka Livingstone's
was read and in the same well as your name, I'm not really that I once connected even see,
speak, still enjoy tea and cake in your home would. "Sechele, of it, although he prakticirt the Regendoctorei,
very well understood, at the appropriate place Bible Proverbs to lead, was immediately reply with
an equal hand.

"The ways of Providence are wonderful, "were his words immediately following, but during Mr. Williams
Translation of my words had the king, whose right side of the face to us, which left his Woman
seemed to turn the necessary attention to his regret, observed that Sebel Ma- asleep again
and this time was dangerously tilted to one side. Me with a sly Eyes looking at it applicirte his wife
a so indelicate kick, that Ma Sebel, the poor queen, would have knocked her forehead almost standing
in front of her cup.

After dinner I went with the two men walking on the rocky heights on which Molopolole is built, this
height is called Mo-ra-a-Khomo, ie, the Father of the Ox, so called after a former resident here
Bakwena-forms with the ranchers and their opposite Height, the rock Thor Kobuque.

The sooner the resident's and Makalahari Bakwena's - it was not yet in as Sechele the nearby Liteyane
lived - used the steep walls of the Moraakhomo-height at the Thore rock to old and weak parents
or close relatives, their food and nutrition herabzustürzen annoying them fell over the same. The
misdeed was the next in the same Homesteads living relatives and
suggested using his neighbors in the dark of night accomplished.

The weak and helpless, knowing what they stand before inevitable were executed without resistance
introduced to the rock edge, or executed and the hyenas or jackals who worried that same night
the burial of the fallen down or made the suffering by the fall of the only serious injuries
to an end.

The Molopolole under the rocks, ie rocks at the northern gate located in the approximately 2
½ miles away in the canyon springing Tschan Jana-filled river, three is four feet deep rocky hole
than on dry days of the dark youth's Molopolole Resort uses. That, however, bathing and washing
is not the Bechuanaland peculiar virtue, I was at the boy who swam
in front of me, and said of course Sebel, King Son, the leader, played
and most ridiculous jumps, etc. pointed out, notice it.

They crawled comfortable in the water, however, were quick to come out soon from the wet elements
and to the scorching rays of the sun to dry; on cloudy days, they avoided the fear of water.

The
free time of my stay in Molopolole I used to trips in the immediate neighborhood, more on what
my collections for some interesting object was. Partly arose I, sometimes I received as a gift:
some CAROSSE, some very primitive carved assegai, ie, javelins, the shaft short and thick
as a finger, blunt the iron and extremely poor worked, braided whose upper end of the shaft with
sinew, or fragments of a held together in the wet state folded and sewn together Boahaut was
also battle axes, which in the ¾ meter long wooden handle attached
loosely, not our dulcimer knives dissimilar, and also some well-crafted
wooden pots and some incantation means a from weevils, two from seed
and a bird made of mouth, skin and horn pieces.

Mr. Williams, I admired one from Boababrinde (Adansonia) worked rice bag, which he had received from
the course of a robbery from the Mashonaland returning Matabele.

My zoological collections multiplied by a beautiful head with long-Orix capensis Horns, a leopard
skin and one of Gueparda jubata, some Hyraxfelle, also one of Viverra Zivetia, which appears
to be rare, and several of Felis caligata. Mr. Williams brought me the cadaver of a three-year Kamafuchses,
the animal had previously already caught in a striking bar, however, was leaving after the one
hind foot got away, now it had fooled a second time and this time will forfeit his life. The
Bakwenahöhen also house the beautiful cliff divers, in the land of Bakwena's, north of Molopolole
we finally meet for the first time the eland (elk) antelope and giraffe.

Among the birds I noticed the frequency of medium-sized birds of prey, including sparrow hawks,
falcons, Buzzards and kites; of the latter, Mr. Williams killed several, they the chicks his
wife decimated. Otherwise, I noticed by their frequency owls, owl's owls and Zwergkäuze on who
had pitched in the cliffs their residences. In the rock crevices and among the many rocks has
an active animal life - mammals, including beasts of prey in large numbers, then reptiles, especially snakes
and lizards here to find the best hiding places; the rich and lush vegetation, which is on the slopes
of the rotting tree stumps Existence of countless insects, including Lepidoptera, flies, etc.
bound.

My yield of Beetles, spiders and scolopes was a very rich, is a scientist at all stay in the Bakwena-height
networks in every respect a most rewarding.

We are also here, as in the Bamangwato and others on the high plateau of central South Africa Group-shaped
rising, rocky, contiguous with the Marico or Matabele Mountain Center Heights, the steep, rugged mountains
of waste of the table, or tabular, with cone-shaped, isolated high peaks strewn plateaus. This is Gesammthöhennetz
gradually to the north into a wooded and mostly deep sandy plateau, to then again as gradually
in an area of ​​30 to over 100 miles to a shallow bed of the river cut to flatten, on its opposite
shore, a power level similar nature, such as what has been described to continue. Granite, quartzite,
shale, Trapdykes, Kalkadern and iron-containing, sandy clay are the
main formation of the high places where the vegetation by several
huge Aloëspecies is characterized constituting formal trees.

Before we part of Molopolole, it allowed me to take some of the important religious and referred
to local customs under the Bechuanaland's. I owe the following communications the quality of
the English missionaries Mr S. Mackenzie, Hephrun, Price, Williams, Brown and Webb and the
German missionary T. Jensen, and also some of the most prominent traders and some educated Dutch and
English speaking Bechuanaland's and found them in personal observation during my three operated
in the interior from travels.

Religion in the true sense of the word have the Bechuanaland's, ie
the central South Africa tribes inhabiting this family of nations
do not, but we know from the fact that, when the first teachings of
Christianity, the invisible God, the name immediately Morimo attached
any, without the word would find an alternative use, concluded that
the längstvergangener time in a visible or invisible being paid to
divine worship have had.

Thus, because the word is traditionally Morimo get to them. The closest related Word is Morimo
Barimo, which use the expression Bechuanaland's still common and which "the spirits of the dead called."
Nevertheless, they so no real religion have suspended, but the mass of many customs, which
among other nations, polytheism drive, as religious practices are considered, for example,
a certain reverence to it as already mentioned, pay certain animals, the same is not limited
only to the fact that they the animal, not kill, do not enjoy his
flesh and not use its fur.

Shall find We, too, that these uses of certain trained to teach people and exercised be that
the king is the king or become a Christian, a dignity, standing next to him Pagans recognize
as their leader and thus the caste of priests and the chief priest , Which repräsentiren hot under
the Bechuanaland's Naka (Njaka, Njaga). When the Bechuanas a well-divided into several sub-families,
but still under a united People's Scepter rich and represented, the monarchy was hereditary in
the family Baharutse. Even when later the Bechuanaland's divided, one tribe (a branch, sub-family)
to etc. North, the other moved to the south, east, southeast and southwest and separate smaller
and built larger kingdoms, the ancient royal family of most of their subjects rely on the sub-family
from which it sprang, confined, and had become powerless, but it remained the prerogative of those
superstitious, the high priest's office in the Bechuanaland OF HIS to do customs, and from members
of royal families, and Naka's the new state Bechuanaland wealthy immigrant to the court of
Baharutse (Bahurutse) from around to see the head of these respective traditions do.


"No, no," he said; "this must not be. I might take you into the house, but I fear that with
so many servants, some of whom are as bigoted as any of us whites, you would be sure to be
discovered; and they would either reveal in confession, or disclose to the authorities, the
fact of your concealment. The only plan which promises to offer safety, that I can suggest,
is that you shall take to the mountains. There are many runaways there, and although sometimes
they are hunted down and slain; yet they have caverns, and other places of concealment, where
you might remain for years. I will speak to David about it, at once."

David, on being questioned, said that there was an old native woman, living at a hut a little
way off, who had the reputation of having the evil eye, and who was certainly acquainted with
the doings of the runaways. If any slave wished to send a message, to one of his friends who
had taken to the hills, the old woman would, for a present, always convey, or get it conveyed,
to the man for whom it was intended. He thought that it would be absolutely necessary that
some such means should be taken of introducing the boys to the runaways; otherwise, hunted
as these were, they would either fly when they saw two whites approaching, or would surround
and destroy them.

Don Sagasta at once accepted the suggestion, and David was dispatched to the old woman, with
offers of a handsome present, if she would give a guide to the boys, to the mountains. David
was instructed, especially, to tell her that they were English, and the natural enemies of
the Spaniards; that they had done them much harm at sea; and that, if caught by the Spaniards,
they would be killed. An opening sufficiently large to to grant
a person in crawling position inlet, is the only connection with the outside world, which is
locked from the inside in case of necessity by an advanced mat. The Corresponds to the interior
of the cabin exterior, there can be little consolation looser yet Uncleanliness thought of
as the interior of a Korannahütte. In the middle of a bowl-shaped Well as a fireplace, some
with low cross woods with linked wooden forks, hung the remains of former European clothes, a
few goats or sheep skins, furthermore, some pots, and the setup is finished. One of the withered
branches of mimosa scantily fenced place between or outside the huts, houses the cattle or
Ziegenheerde, and if not the hyena and the leopard and other nocturnal beasts of prey on their secret
paths fear are only means a dunghill the gathering place of the cattle's. Significant Silence reigns
over this desolate scenery, only after the minds of spirits heated one of the passengers brought
by the city, or a transient peddler them leave, it's too noisy, but otherwise breaks only in
the morning and evening, when the naked children drive the cattle to pasture, some in slow
motion, the monotony of life the cabin occupants.

Only here and there, where wealthy Koranna's the luxury of some Makalahari
and Masarwa, servant and slaves, can treat was tried in the most limited
extent agriculture, for its development in many parts of the country's
natural conditions are present, and which attempts themselves had
referred to the narrowness of the best success if you raise dams or
would try here and there, the Harts River and Vaal River to derive.

As the Hottentottenrace at all, the real and the Hottentots inhabiting the Cape Colony, the Griqualand
West at the confluence of the Vaal in the Orange and those new or East Griqualand or the so-called
Nomansland Kockstadt to populate around Griqua's, are also the Koranna
is dying out, their number has almost 50 Percent, possession by 25-75
Percent reduced.

Unwillingness to work and unclean, insidious and in most cases untrue, vindictive and living only
for the moment, without thought for tomorrow, etc., and capable of all sorts to commit crimes in
order to secure only the spirits, they offered me a chilling Image. But as they are as charioteer
and tension in the fasting state Reiber (in the wilderness, where they can not European enough
fire water) better than the Kaffirs, etc. use are, I also tried it with them and sought after opportunity
to get them sober - in vain Trouble, I had to give up the attempt very soon.

In England prevail at present among the most educated with respect to the mistaken natives question
Views, this misunderstanding is mainly the fact that the persons concerned have not convinced
themselves of the state of things. If individuals or friends wanted to do something for the whole societies native
South Africa when they themselves wanted to set a monument and pay
tribute to the colored people the greatest benefit, it would be necessary
was that under the present movement in South Africa, that of Good
Templars in re- the natives would have supported, which, due especially
in the diamond fields to inhibit collected, very bitter experience
of spirits sold in the black investigated.

Wars with the natives can not the same as much physical damage to body and effects (the have
the individual schmälernd) cause than a year's undisturbed enjoyment the fire water and this in particular
strains that are weak in their mental facilities to easily by anything shiny, can delude young
children immediately. Yes, I am the perfect sure that many of my high patronage in England, where
the natives question South Africa's most Heart, such a sight would never forget how he was
the inhabitants of many Capland cities presents yet, in the diamond fields was, however, a commonplace:
that the Korannafrauen drunken white man, cursing wildly, from half-eaten dirt, in the dusty
Streets looked around waver until a security guard took pity on her. The sight of an unclean,
rolling around in the mud beast could not be more disgusting than that. If I add but may indicate
that in the diamond fields in the province of Griqualand West itself, in this respect a laudable,
significant progress was that the government to develop material to improve the situation of their
colored population, the sum of £ 3000 in St. Kantinenlicenzen (Canteen taxes) and other efforts is sacrificed
- even though fighting against a strong opposition - the restrict the sale of brandy to the
natives, this is certainly every enlightened man . Satisfy Common ground will improve the
material situation of the natives, and as small tax payers, the government make good any damage
caused by that measure well again.

It is hoped that in recent years so completely dysfunctional relationships, the beyond all demoralized
Koranna's family life improve, and they especially as ranchers and farmers can afford something
important. A small price would Government tender for those who in their huts the simple European
style Imitating their homes built himself, who cultivate the field most of which the most crops
win or draw the best cattle, so encouraging, nobler feelings where until now only seek to arouse feelings
of blind animal filled breast. The Koranna's in the wood carving and stone could make some
good tailoring, would So also here to help.

By the moral decay of the Koranna's in the last decades, most of the same its previous mention
worthy customs disregarded, yes, I would say, completely forgotten, a fact that did not get to
them, which is a type Freimaurerthum. The Members of this society to recognize at an outside
badge, usually three performed on the chest 1-1 ½ inches long (scarred) cutting. A member of
the Federal everywhere where he goes to his peers, the friendly reception, and he the Small
and pointed to the scars of the breast, or this, the visitor's shirt on the chest opening, has
seen the sign. Such 'a Mason is now on the brother of Small and Date entertained the most friendly,
and also equivalent to a relative or family member. If a Koranna join this secret society, so
he makes, as the sign of recognition rather known as the tribe is
one of his neighbors, at which he observed one which announced his
decision that he wanted to join.

Has the addressee believes that the applicant is able to bear the cost of the Inauguration ceremony-as
reports He is in the same village or around the living, and if no stay close, but live far away,
so will be sent to them and after they gathered, the inauguration ceremony, made which is that
the new brother to the mutual assistance obligations make it known, and where he said of the
elders of those present with the three sections, the vow to honor those commitments emits,
and this with the usual oath "True as if I have a mother confirmed." An orgy concludes this
ceremony, with a few head of cattle, sheep and goats are slaughtered and the company is not
likely eliminated, until all is consumed.

I will still find many opportunities in this general pattern held for trains of this strain to complete.

After
a nearly three-hour stay, we left Peniel, the way now led through bushy High levels, which
were crossed by numerous red sand dunes that our draft animals the greatest difficulties were
preparing. We want to traverse about two-thirds of the dune belt have, as our animals, exhausted,
were no longer to get from the site, and we here had to wait for passing Batlapinen who drive to the
diamond fields of timber trade. We were busy with the production of our primitive overnight camp, as the us
known bang stretched the ox whip (a monster of its kind) on an incoming Companion's attention. There
were, as I supposed, coming from Klipdrift wood carters; the negotiations with the required payment
were soon ended, and in the car quickly Time from the dunes studded with level on solid ground
in safety. A new anxious concern caused us the dispatch of the requisite drinking water for
our own use and consumed by the thirsty animals. The night was very dark, a cold north wind
penetrated our clothes, just an unusual lightning on the western
horizon lit up sometimes the deep darkness.

The Direction to power was well known to us, alone in the darkness that allowed us to barely 40 steps
to see clearly, it was impossible for us to orientate himself to us on the spot to which we lossteuerten,
it could be a steep slope or a muddy shore lot, both equally dangerous.

I my horse, my white companions a pair of bullocks leader, we steered, our remaining cars all the
gods of recommending, in the darkness, of "Nigr" accompanied, who seemed to care little about
the darkness and rushing forward with a loud Barking his satisfaction with the nocturnal excursion
manifested. At first it was a short grassy plain, to judge by the frequent slipping, with many
broadleaf Liliaceae seemed to be covered, then we came to numerous rivulets of rain water churning,
that first thing we announced a cry of my companion F., who sank up to his hips in it. We broke
off from the bushes lining the path to our branches to allow the ground in front of us to
sound, but this did not help much, especially as we were approaching the river, the slope . Went
down At the numerous branches of mimosa was many a symbol of our woolen daring night march back
to the Koranna could not help wrest respect.

On reaching the river, was a safe Tränkstelle to discover otherwise, but that we ourselves sticks
with the muddy banks of the basic soundings, searched for one.

Our efforts were happy beyond all expectation, a few steps short of our stopping place came
my companion to a delicious F. Tränkplatz. After the horse with all precautions were soaked individually,
they said, take the way back to the encampment on the plateau. This was not easy because we had
soon convinced that we are on the way down to the very direct Roads were abandoned. In the ruling
impenetrable darkness was our starting not without danger, after a few steps that we had traveled
from the shore, blocking us a dense thicket barrier the way we had to try so, upstream freer to
gain field, a flickering in the dying fire in the distance of about 600 Steps we had the right
track. Trembling with cold (the thermometer showed only 7 degrees Reaumur), we finally arrived
at the car, with the strong wind and the lightning and thunder accompanied rain made all attempts
to light a good fire to shame. Although tired to the utmost, but wanted to enhance our members
no sleep, by the storm had become restless horses pulled continuously
at our "Ark" and foiled thus any attempt to Morpheus to captivate
us with violence.

As the horses quite could not calm down, we supposed, that they frightened by creeping around hyenas
and would have roamed the immediate surroundings, however, without perceiving anything suspicious.

Against
dawn the next day we left to continue on Klipdrift. Small, in our Way opening into small valley,
bringing with high levels of shrub cover in the previous monotonicity some variety, and were
animated by Arno and Ibex gazelles, and the gray Little Bustard romped in separating the small,
dense groups, 6-12 foot high bushes. Both Gazelles spend the day in the low and dense shrubbery in
hiding, the Ibex Gazelle (Tragalus rupestris) this leaves only at night or with approaching
danger. I think the fact that she is unaccustomed to the daylight, the cause of blindness in captivity
kept animals (90 Percent) to find. In less degree that is at the Arno (Cephalolophus merging)
the case, as he also sometimes during the day is dealing with the food. Experienced shooters
hunt both animals with the rifle pipe, under all circumstances requires the killing of the
graceful, barely 20 inches high Gazelle to 200-400 paces a masterful handling of the weapon.

Sports men "hunt the beautiful animals with hounds, and similar animal cruelty, one of the most
innocent Animals compared with that White has also introduced in all other parts of the world. In
South Africa Was it only among the natives to use, especially of the harmful and furs Half
useful animals to hunt with dogs and even at these shorter one as far as practicable the period
of persecution.

These include the South African jackals (Canis mesomelas and cinereus) the Kamafuchs, and the
Aardwolf (Proteles Lalandii), the Genettkatzen and scrape animal.

The ibex, called by the Boers "Steen Buck," and the Arno, or are in the Ducker dichtbebuschten and
wooded lots at the apostasy of the southern and central African plateau's to the coast through the Grysbock
(Tragalus melanotis) and the small blue block (Cephalolophus coerula), to the north by the levels
of the salt pan area in pairs, beyond the Zambezi River in small flocks living Orbecki represented.

The drive over the bushy hill games took all our attention, because the road was like the dry
bed of a stream strewn with rubble game, the car came in the alarming situation, its fluctuations
cost one of our dogs, who carelessly As ventured too close to life.

At last the ferry reached the Vaal and all of us about ten Shillings wages set above the water. [1]

1: To use the dry season, weighing one below the ferry located Furth.

When you reach the right bank of the Vaal, we proposed in the immediate vicinity of Klipdrift, at the
foot our camp on a hill. Compared with other South African towns,
earned Klipdrift be called a pretty little town to.

From about 150 partly stone and partly of iron sheet houses (The remains of the earlier 5000
inhabitants, capital town of the River Diggings), consisting It is located on the slope of a low,
barely 80 feet the level of the river bed paramount, with countless dark brown boulders (Trapdykes)
covered heights, coming from south-southeast of the river makes Here a turn to the West. Small,
partly bald, partly grassy, ​​here and there covered with trees Islands
in the give above and below Klipdrift over boulders rushing river
this settlement, no small attraction.

The time of my visit decorated tall trees both banks of the river, one of which is the left higher
than the right.

For many years, an architectural oddity Klipdrift, that is the only stone built single-story
house, the office building of the "Standard Bank", an institute,
whose marks have full gold value.

    At the eastern end of Klipdrift is followed by the native location
    (establishment) the colored natives, it's that time inhabited by
Koranna's Batlapinen and Barolongs, of which currently only the first
two tribes are represented.

The exterior of this native-branch replaced by a colorful mixture of different style of architecture
(Korannahütten, Basutohütten and European style, wood and clay house) has a peculiar character.

The
inhabitants, both men than women develop lively sense of work, while the former hire on daily wages
or other work (jobs) that control the women (especially the Kafirs and Betschuanafrauen) by its
merit as laundresses to the cost of housekeeping at. Their activity stimulates the scenery on the
river.

A cursory glance is enough to distinguish the two races, and without hesitation We the representatives
of the Betschuanarace the Batlapinen and Barolongs prefer more comfortable Facial and body
development grant.

From matt black to dark brown complexion, their Features beautiful nor ugly, while the yellowish-brown
face of the direct Koranna to name is ugly. The small eyes are located in deep caves, a short and
narrow face has nearly no significant nasal approach, the unnatural preceding jaws and bulging Lips are
the main features of the front, a small, elongated skull that of the posterior Head formation. The
body of women is that well-known saddle formation of the lower spine, which its course can appear clumsy,
not a little disfigured. Many Korannafrauen had cheek and forehead smeared with red ocher,
or painted blue, and that with the ear to the eyes, nose, mouth and
chin, running even or upward to concave lines.

Frequently I found the cheeks and forehead smeared also brown and black, giving them the appearance
of monkeys dressed awarded.

On one of my visits to the natives quarter I entered one of the Korannahütten.

It offered me as a peculiar image dar. In a bowl-shaped depression in the middle of the hut
was a hearth a woolly object; on closer inspection I realized that It was a lamb that was roasted.
Two women, the upper body completely exposed, both genial smoking, sat on mats, while some
naked children, their yellow-gray, light body color with black filth was glossed over, playing
around. The family head, Dressed in worn-out European cloth, sat directly on the hearth, and watched
with rapt Garwerden the attention of the roast, which to announce a loud click with his tongue
appeared. This I also operated to remove the small piece of chewing tobacco, which the only Koranna
puts away during the meal. It did not last long, so was the roast lamb from the glowing Ash-free,
stripped of the charred wool, cut into pieces and-divided.
 To be adopted by the thought that the caves were It will
be worth visiting, too. The more I Wonder Font One of these caves heard the more eager I was
to see her, and the greater my disappointment when I later saw.

Before I went on this first trial trip, I was made aware that Potchefstroom in a man dedicated
to the Insectenstudium and the Portuguese Consul, Mr. Foßmann, its best to geological exploration
of the Southern Transvaal region post, I should certainly visit them. But I was so easy on
this first trip equipped that I felt unable to make state visits. And it was said, after We
supplied us with provisions, to say the city Valet.

We left the evening and suggested a easterly direction to the Moi River to box. It was hard work
to - after we go through the city - the short, only some hundred yards long from the north end
of town to the then very primitive Moibrücke back down reaching distance. Although the place quite
wide, she was by the moisture the soil and as a result of recent rain and by the carelessness of the people
of Potchefstroom in a single, been transformed in places up to 1 ½ feet deep mud. With few interruptions
we had the next few hours passed with recurrent passage difficulty to fight, and the depletion of animals
forced me at last, on a not inviting, to keep swampy place break.

The next morning took us through a broad, open valley after several
directions, in which one of several existing buildings and kept in
good condition, farmlands and gardens farm was surrounded.

We bought a few pumpkins here and went eastward reached, soon to a plateau to the south by
a partially tree-covered hills chain bordered, to the east, north and northwest a clear insight
into the Moi River valley, with its numerous farms and the surrounding dark gardens allowed.
It was one of the finest I enjoyed the sight, in further Ferm showed single peaks and ridges, waste
Bank of Blue-high plateau and on the distant northern horizon, the outlines of the Magalies Mountains.

On
the plateau, after we took our way, I noticed a funnel-shaped, from afar even through dense forest
cover on the grassy plains marked 25-60 foot deep ground wells on. I later found that such ground-hopper
in the Transvaal in some areas between the lines the Harts River
and the Molapo Molapo and between the lower and the Vaal River, in
Barolong and Batlapinen areas and in areas of Griqualand West (in
the western part of the Division of Hay) are distributed fairly numerous
and Charakteristicum the giant bed of a superficially located, rare
lying in thin layers, but often powerful to hundreds of feet deep
in the earth engaging, sometimes sand and white schäligem limestone,
form at other points of granite and slate-covered limestone layers.

They are the wide gap of more uniting, the rocks in the deep-splitting crack. This giant bed
of limestone, which marked, often magnificent, undulating storage and stratification has shown, mostly
from outside the influence of the action of water and is in its hundreds of miles of land mass covering
cracked and broken, but had the rock whether its hardness and mass expansion of the terrestrial
revolutions a large resistance have the opposite, so that 90 Percent of cracked parts, except
for those arising Fractured and the resulting revisions were made comparatively small shifts,
no significant Upheavals have suffered.

These underground cracks and miles-long columns are used for underground water drainage, which
then further into small slits on the slopes, steep valleys, as at the top Molapo, break to the outside
rail. A portion of the Moi River flows in this manner continued under the earth, indeed, he
disappears partially in some places completely gets further down the valley again Light. These
columns combine and to this union bodies are then found those already mentioned (in lower
and higher parts of the plateau lying) to above a funnel-shaped widening openings, which at its
upper mouth of a circumference from 24-180 to reach even up to 240 meters. They appear round,
because the wall often Rubble and earth is covered, but on closer examination they reveal themselves
square, the majority However, triangular.

Some of these rocks have funnel bare rock walls, are rarely the same superimposed on steep, often
with gravel or rocks formed by blocks, these blocks are usually covered with soil or fill the gaps
and spaces that, so that those of a pretty lush vegetation, including but trees and bushes and
there the higher trees, then these depressions on the grassy, ​​bushy little or no Excellent
level, widely recognizable.

The position where the bottom of such rock hopper uniting charisma or cracks from here are correspondingly
wide, can be several feet, go down deep in some vertically and then often hundreds of meters,
the cracks as a low, more or less high and spacious columns . Pursue Some of the funnel-shaped openings
are filled with crystal blue water and I could not help but one of them showed that a water depth
of 140 feet and I looked at the return from my third trip on the left bank of the Molapo, a Miniature
Felsensee to have to call .-- Without seeing them, I believe that Mr Huebner's Klipdachs Gorge
belongs to the category of this peculiar soil formation. So I found that many river in the areas
of the Vaal, Harts River, Molapo and Marico (probably the upper Limpopo) originate take in such a
narrow rock holes, ie where the underground water could not flow
could and broke through the funnel-shaped openings upward path.

If we Farms come near them are such Quellbächlein, so our attention it directed that the stream
continues often for miles, but often only a few hundred yards upward rise in a marshy place, and
in the middle among other bubbled Sources of a circumscribed, drilled 50 or more feet deep hole as
the cliff. To all these places, even on those which had only underground drain, I found always
the same fish species before. On the game-rich plains between the Harts River and the Molapo
I met a swamp beschilften know who to neither side showed through runoff and extremely rich in
fish and bird was, but after the nearly the middle of that most engaging Depth close to the same, I also considered
that for a similar rock opening. Of these Limestone rock formation conditions as the non-quartz
veins containing quartz and other minerals Bullet of lead, copper, iron and silver.

On the third day after our departure we reached Wonderfontein of Potchefstroom, with which name
the Boers the "wonder Lichen" grottos and caves described in the rocks. It is not, as a rule,
the name of a farm, but the collective name for a number of these, which lie close together in
excellent grazing pastures in the valley of the Moi River. There are mostly stone, ground level, but
high, airy residential building with an attached carriage house and usually one or two usually
manufactured from cane to dry the busy here cultivated tobacco used huts. Of these farms will
be those on which we were heading, ie nearest to the entrance to the caves, called the actual
Wonderfontein.

The banks of the Moi River, which is here a wide stream and many from both sides Flocking sources
are lined in places very muddy and reed thicket, for the The ornithologist is formally inexhaustible
field of work release.

A thousand-voiced pipes and singing, chirping and clucking sounds to our ears and puts us at
a loss where to direct our first steps.

With the permission of the farmer we pitched our camp under its shade and high Peach garden fringing
willows on. When asked, however, to the entrance of the cave, they gave us to understand that
the input is to be found well that, however slightly in the Caves could get lost and it was advised
about the visit of the caves with only a guide to take what we have the sons of the farmer for
a fee of £ 1 per person St. offered.

Since I had come so mainly for the sake of the caves Wonderfontein, let we liked this blackmail and
after a few visits to the farmer to end because Relatives of the same are connected, we were
on our way.

Two sons of the farmer who had been provided with a bundle of tallow
candles were our guide.

We crossed the river in its broad, very shallow ford, and had the right, rocky and wooded banks
to climb. came after a quarter of an hour we meet us at a yawning, perpendicular cliffs leading
down to hole, one of the narrower, but deeper funnel-shaped, rock fissures described above. Although
the me Entrance into the underground caves in part the ruptures in rock sharp relief led, I
must confess that I am already through this entrance to the cave very disappointed felt. I just
found one of those caves, in which I bone deposits of animals the last geological period found
and fill these gaps in geology South Africa could have.

From the walls of the funnel great blocks of rock made it possible for us, the bottom of the After
down to a narrow column NNW narrowing and in an oblique Direction down to win against (and lower)
the riverbed perpetuating rock opening. We forced their way into the columns confusion, initially
it was close, low gears, not even as high, One that we were able to crawl on all fours after
the other, later broadened are the same up to 4 and 8 feet, reaching up to 10 feet high. Almost
all narrowed upward into thin columns that make the water trickling down stalactites and oozing
generated without that they would have won by striking or large shapes. Sorry Earlier visitors had
already cut off most or damaged, their fragments covered the ground. In those places - and there
were many, because the underground rock crevices, in which we were moving, the rock mass were blown
in all directions - where crossing two met, got up to the viewer
a kind of peak, slightly higher than the Fissures, but nothing remarkable
bidder.

The walls were dark gray, mostly bare and fairly smooth. Half of our underground tour we traveled
barefoot because that flowed from east to west through the caves and flowing babbling brook
in the overall width of the corridor and we could be marbles At the entrance to the underground
Columns heard. The further we advanced to the west and north, was the deeper the Water and especially
of those transitions shone forth beautiful, undamaged stalactite over, but we had the further
advance, the refusal to give up because of our leaders.

Without too much trouble, could the tight spots between the wider fissures and the entrance, extending
the downward sloping portion of the subterranean passage and a small, short boat introduce and in this
way might have formed the end of the course or may reach large cave rooms. It seemed as if
facing away from the river on the Hand, less viable and mostly thin, columnar continuing decline
transitions are the however, would lead to wider to the river, so that here the water flowed
in the must have narrow gaps in and of itself may be washed further and wider.

Despite our short stay we had found in the caves so many attendants, for as we left, because
we gave them in to the host rocks starting up her faithful Escort and souvenirs as both the Wonder Font
a cave, as if to my collection of Mamalia to increase, I took two of them in no small astonishment
of our guides with which the fluttering bats (Vespertiliones) did not dare to touch.

Wonderfontein is one of the places in South Africa, to which the researchers confidently extended
period of time can stay, and his efforts will be rewarded abundantly. Animals, plants such as
minerals are here worthy of collecting. Unfortunately my stay was because of the aforementioned
reasons only three days and I could only limited insight into the nature of the immediate environment
. Win There were great wild beasts, it is no longer here, they were cut off for about 15 years,
but there were still Caloblepas Gorgon, antelope and Euchore albifrons in quantity to the north
extending planes while in the high grass on the bank, in its rush
and the beschilften, but dry lying parts individually or in pairs,
the beautiful yellowish brown, with their forward-looking, short,
slightly curved hook-shaped horns provided Riet Bock Gazelle quite
often had to be found.

Our farmers proved throughout the time of our stay extremely friendly and invited us a few times,
to accompany his sons to hunt going. On the plains to the right and leftists often were fresh
"retracted" the presence of the holes backed Jackals, the striped
hyena and the Proteles were often porcupines, hares, and short-tailed
Spring to find animals shed.

Between the rocks I noticed Genetta's and a black striped Weasel. On one of my friend with E.
undertaken on the other side trips, as we both our guns taken out the activities of some large
species of finch in the reeds our attention gave, I heard a few steps ahead of me, where an
opening in the reeds of the view Flußstelle a share, a splashing in the clear, the murmuring
waters. It touched four rapidly moving upstream, alongside and behind the other floating otters. Before
we take our little behind us leaned against a rock and use guns could the animals in the dense reeds
were gone before us. The brown otters South Africa's rivers are more compact and shorter than
the European species, have a less valuable fur and abide by all beschilften, flowing waters
or in the pools of the Spruit. At the numerous rapids, and in the deep pools, which, after drying
of the river remain in her bed and very numerous Fish pose, it shall
be given an opportunity, fat to be enacted by them almost never will,
except when they accidentally met on the river or by the cries of
roosters a Out of human habitations are attracted by dogs are attacked
and killed, the latter However, a rare case.



At nightfall the air became alive with mysterious noises; cries as of animals, occasionally
Indian whoops, shouts from one voice to another were heard all around. The Spaniards stood
to their arms, and gazed anxiously into the darkness.

Soon the shouts of the sentries told that flights of arrows were being discharged at them,
by invisible foes. Volley after volley were fired, from the musketoons and arquebuses, into
the wood. These were answered by bursts of taunting laughter, and mocking yells, while the
rain of arrows continued.

The Spanish troops, whose position and figures could be seen by the blaze of the lighted fires,
while a dense darkness reigned within the forest, began to suffer severely from the arrows
of these unseen foes. Bodies, fifty strong, advanced into the dark forest to search out their
enemies; but they searched in vain. The Indians, better accustomed to the darkness, and knowing
the forest well, easily retreated as they advanced; and the Spaniards dared not venture far
from their fires, for they feared being lost in the forest.

The officer commanding, an old and experienced soldier, soon ceased these useless sorties.
Calling his men into the center of the glade; he ordered them to stand in readiness to repel
an assault, extinguished every fire, and allowed half the troop at once to lie down, to endeavor
to snatch some sleep. If it did so "symbolic that the Jews in huge crowds from Russia Romania or driven
out, which were slaughtered and plundered in Chisinau, in such Soil no "down roots," and that even
the Jews of other countries have forever undermined Situation and prefer to enter mobile in
motion to try putting capital than for "earth"?

The great figures of Judaism, of course, be questioned by the author as such. As "almost devoid of
any size," he called Heine - Heine, of humanity such a blissful treasure left behind, a seemingly
inexhaustible well, into which delve always granted courage, comfort, relief and recovery - not by
his wit and Sarcasm, but its never reached, deep, deep ethereal lyricism. As just as "overrated"
is also considered Spinoza. This assessment - better validation - to Judge I have too little
knowledge. But also because I believe that a terrorist planting of of what it was he, Weininger
calls size to dominate as an arbitrary criterion. That one in a hundred-fold in size and type
can be awesome, even if not exactly in the direction endear him to the stick, moves, he seems
not to be considered. He stops in front of Spinoza that he is anything less "problem" because "mathematical
method" was that all is obvious to leave. It seems nothing less than a disadvantage of Method
if it can so, vice versa, but one can detect a horror nigh, if the simplest and most obvious
involved in so many formulas until it confused complicated and appear so that the complicated
"solution" of this "problem" then as "Deed" behaving, even if it is consistent with the results
which can be easily at first View wins. But people, which even the simplest thing is only understandable
that they through a maze of detours have to durchgewunden, in each case by a scrub of philosophy
by need, which are even capable of even more of the overt Vorbeizutappen truth, just because
they weglockt any one Irrlichterchen of speculation, demonstrate a lack of healthy instincts,
are therefore the ruling "in itself" as it were physiologically incompetent. can perceive the
overall impression of a phenomenon only of who its physiological Sense organs has complete: there may
not lack the instinct, as he is, what might be called the olfactory organ of the soul.

Of the Jews, the author comes back to the women. It urges him apparently still once collectively to
comment on them: Just as the Jew, the woman a "monad". But like anything and everything in the
world, it also represents "an" idea ":" W represents the idea of
​​nothingness.

"He is now the most delicious of all results," There, "the woman = a = morally and = a = logical,
is all that exists is a moral and logical being, however, so - it is not at all. Quite apart
from the funny result: note only the confused perversion each logical link! instead of following:
all logic and morality must be in existence, Beings in the document, according to monstrous perversion:
in particular being is moral and Logic. Since the woman but according to him has not, of course,
must "come out" that they not at all "is." Probably it is thus only a kind of ghost, a mass of
superstition!

Surprisingly, like all his resumptive are also his last. Despite what he of The woman has testified
that he asked for them the "equal rights" as the man he appears for
their emancipation, but they must mean Entgeschlechtlichung perfect!

Even the final conclusion resulting from this demand, it is considering, namely, the extinction
budget, would logically come to the mankind: the extermination of the human species seems to
him but even a worthwhile goal! »All Fécondité is disgusting." This sentence characterizes
a life-hating nature, necessarily only destruction tendencies can produce. Requires the expression of this
Endtendenzen ever an answer, it would it is the one that is no reason why we should be careful
to clear the planet - For any other dubious gender, then unfold to him of life could ...

By the way, he also knows "the" rights, which he allegedly asked for the woman, "as" limit.
was by the legislation in the direction of a community "keep both sides that" the woman equal
to - "" children, idiots and criminals. Because - "right and wrong of the woman can be determined
exactly, without that "the women mitbeschließen itself.

This sentence is - it can not be described differently - a shamelessness. (However, in this book,
"so much of" modesty is mentioned.) How beautiful, "right and wrong"
for the woman "determined" was itself must be clearly blind and deaf
from a legislative, the woman in his most disastrous, most helpless
situation right, protective, and can be helpless.

Of all the things which became their limitation and narrowing determined "for her," will I now
foresee all, only the most flagrant to be touched by the fact that the handicapped Pregnant
women, therefore, is if they subsistenzlos, in the state most completely helpless is located,
has no claim to the child's father that he was who he was, he did what he have, the fact that
they also cover the costs of childbirth any legal claim neither the father nor has the company
that they - the women in labor! - No claim to shelter and care for themselves and the child (in the
Foundling Hospital are only a few Recording and circumstances under which a cautionary odium
attached), and that only after can claim the most difficult hour maintenance for the child,
but never sufficient, the cost of its maintenance to cover even comes close. So nice right
and wrong can be used for the women are determined, "without being" mitbeschließen itself.

In conclusion, suggests in the book by Weininger's an almost insane tone: it is namely noted,
"that this book is the greatest honor that the women has ever been found." But may surprise
us the wildest jumps in a book that is still on the same side of the single true, correct statement
is doing, which alone suggests that the whole book in the face of
alone is sufficient to direct it and to evaluate, since it it as a
(belated) for provision are others, while he himself came under foot,
namely the statement:

"One woman has as an individual and to the
idea of ​​freedom, not as a species (!) not according to the empirical
(?) or from the love needs of men derived to assess scale.

"

So send those last words of his own scanty indeed and their own work.

The eligibility of women, hatred and contempt for women is evident from the arguments on which
it stands and with whom she falls.

For those Weininger, which is obviously a perversion, delusion or denial represent in relation
to the facts is evident most clearly that they must always be identical
and can only be identical with destructive tendencies that ausstoßt
life accurately.

Born from the delusion that they are like ghosts haunting phenomena
that exist only for those his feverish brain conjured, and despite
the stubbornness of his hallucination also are not really a shadow.

There is an actual, hard reality of things (always in the relative area our sense organs, of
course) that of hypothetical conclusions, that by itself no real relationship there is not in
the least modified or overturned can be. One method that has been made in it, hanging in the
air metaphysical, highly subjective conditions to multiply as long as with each other to knit cables
on each type to swallow and to come out a pre-accidental result, in which then the real Life
is pressed into, may it be with the "air-Final match" or not, contains
not the possibility of developing remarkable results revealed.

That would mean the wildest open intellectual adventurer and Don Quixotetum door, would the grotesque
experiments and type "calculations" scientific right to exist, that the scholastics for example,
"calculates" how many angels can dance on the head of a pin, would be of planting of the absurd
new terrorism of speculation, the more time in the history the same philosophy the object of
disgust and ridicule for all healthy Spirits made from which they devaluation in recent times
only by Kant and Schopenhauer rose again - to under their successors to fall into disrepute again
- until she Herbert Spencer on the solid ground of facts and thus made from the sphere of empty
juggling was transplanted into an unquestionable discipline.

That a man like Weininger, endowed with fine dull sensitivity and responsiveness and could be
blind to the basic logic of the facts may be explained from the danger which now holds the ability
of the inner experience of such spirits, which the hard, clean, everything from false and
ejecting element of the healthy instincts that Basic condition of discernment is lacking, so that
they produce the impression that devour a worm at its best mark, as they would with an almost physical
need, and they extend the hand, necessarily - under the compulsion of its kind - always the wrong
thing, the dark, corruption take. Characteristic of him, the seemingly "everything" becomes a problem,
is the fact that he is in fact just the thought, just for the conceptual
problems was while he was the great fact problems, the solution for
humanity or good Alas, up or down, crushing or collection of, unspeakable
misery or happiness infinite possibility Mean not even anstreift with
a clue.

He has in his work, Views, often were way out of his subject and he is the type of full of young
people apparently wanted to write from the heart, piled: over time, value, genius, immortality,
Memory, logic, ethics, philosophy, psychology, etc. However, he is not a single time to speak as
to the problem of war, and the problem of socialism he touches only briefly and superficially,
but both are close to his subject. Fast thinking is a bit of Ibsen's Professor conceptual
field (Peer Gynt), the only metaphysicum in relationships as is "for the otherwise a" question.

Especially
the inner life, which he experienced everything, what ever is a problem for him, holds for him,
the unhealthy mind, the danger that they him to the most subjective conclusions tempts that
are available only through and for his wish and will and the night as Visions before the light
of day - the objective reality - melt. In the interpretation the Platonic ideas, which lie
in the things is, for it carries the risk things in to bring relationship to each other, they have not in
truth, relationships, each Individual link otherwise would could turn into its opposite, and therefore
the losses any common ground lead to the loss most likely. What we absolutely Call reality is,
yes, of course not the true nature of things, but it is at least the same by the nature of
the sense organs constructed general visibility, which provides a base of understanding and
as a general replacement of the ever-inscrutable "True" essence of being the only acceptable.

Where
to Apply Into the subjective range of impressions, the arbitrary establishing relationships,
the violent pressed into self-created categories, the deduction of all existing in the pre-cast forms
Weininger finally led astray, not only from his Treatment of the
problems "woman" or "Jews out", but also in his unpublished work contained
Animal Psychology.

" Since the dog is recognized "as the idea of ​​the criminal, the Horse than that of insanity,
flea and bug as "symbols of something of which God is turned away has "& c. For the same" internal
reasons ", he considered each disease as" guilt "and finds the view can ask the sick and lepers,
"committed a crime what they would that God chasten "very deep. The bizarre "Back-turning tendency"
of all its Views revealed in the assumption that the murder was a "self-justification" of the
criminal, "He looks through him to prove that there is nothing"!

With an almost organic perversity he encourages all appearances the most twisted causes among
them, and must therefore also natural to write the most contradictory intentions and draw the
most confusing conclusions from them, "Man loves his physical parents, it is probably an indication
that one has chosen them .«!!! Or: "The fixed stars signify` 'the (?) Angel in man. Therefore, the human
oriented to them, and why! women have the no sense of the starry
sky, because they lack the sense for the angel in man .«!!!

These samples from Weininger's posthumous works are some perhaps not at the track this work appear
properly. However, they are there because they provide unequivocal insight on the position that
a judgmental intelligence, which is the problem in the way Weininger has the "woman question,
and their behavior," compared to other problems characteristically occupies. The assumption
is therefore not further that, for all that Weininger's great intelligence and mental elasticity
cover or affect the sensitivity of the epileptic, the distorting was this sensitivity, the
all-out drive out the natural dimensions, the contours distorted and perverted all things, till
you sink all in night, confusion and rage ecstasy. His biographer tells us that Weininger epileptics
and simultaneously with the criminal systems contaminated person.
was [5] But the longing for goodness and morality, no doubt in it
mainly was also explains his intimate celebration of Kant's ethics,
he is high above the natural morality of the beautiful soul.

But even if morality that leads to their impulsive, bad assets to the fight, this very struggle
perhaps half the take is more, the does not alter the fact that the of the world as a shining
gift perceived individuation of self-evident morality the god-like and is therefore perceived
as the more perfect.

[5] The former was of Weininger's father in a public letter deny been,
the biographer but relied in its response own statement to the repeated
of the deceased.

A diseased mind can never and will revolutionize the world's opinion. Meaningless therefore remains
his manic pursuit of any object of his - usually physical - "aversion".

Weininger's work, which with immense pains to pre-recorded a big, conceptual material of a Tendency
forged together to his abnormal, hostile aversion than normal and only morally is present, with
all vorübergesaust wish manic character facing the facts, and his arguments were smashed at the first
collision with reality. It has since with the "woman and her question" to create in reality nothing.

As
for the question itself, is a discussion of the same from the point whether the women are
"higher" or "lower" than the men who misses the start. Therefore I've never set for the female
genius flat out did not even famous female names move up, because that is what truly the present
state this question did not. First, a comparison could be the only positive skills in a Era of complete
social equality of the sexes a reasonable, genuine result showed the second compelling slogan
today is not only the Woman wants to do, but they must make: they point the economic imperative Conditions
on their own career choices, since the "supply" by marriage, by the
ever- more difficult struggle for survival, today the man as a result
of the increasingly powerful Big business and the increasingly sinister
growing burden of government revenues through the lead to militarism,
has become more than illusory.

  A girl for this one Opportunity to educate and casting it with flowers,
  dusting and Klavierklimpern its best and can lose most capable years,
  would become a criminal game with human Driving forces and human
destinies.

Moreover, one would have on such an opportunity anabolic fate will definitely be a dishonorable,
by the absolute randomness, would be then used with it.

The woman must therefore be prepared for the possibility of a career choice and educated. Of course must
therefore appear their efforts to extend this option to the furthest regions they make free from
restrictions and narrow-minded to take more and more satisfying effect circles transfer. Is it "to" less
talented, so we let it be only their concern. It is then just have to spend more effort to meet
the required conditions.

Virtually in contrast, has documented such lesser talents of the wife or anything, it is nowhere
been observed that a woman could be fired by a newly created post need because they do not
correspond to the usual requirements. It is also likely that it is not against all plant and
ability to do anything forced, but always the own nature strives to achieve Matching.

"Less gifted" and quite unfit woman seems to me the only one occupation, and this is just the
one to which one you since time immemorial unlimited "free access" allowed has: the occupation
of the heavy laborers and factory work.

just driven by the hunger scourge that wretched lost with severe damage to their Sex and their
offspring, damage, take the race, - the debt of capitalism, the workers for the establishment
of its entire force is not as much income granted that he can get his wife and child. And while
this woman must itself out into a unnatural drudgery, remains unserved the home, the children
without supervision and care, because as far as to pay a helping hand, can not afford the work
of both: so you gentlemen you, turn to your reputation: "The woman is" into the house, especially
the working class woman the inside is actually, as it expires without them, get in with the reputation
of the enterprise, so that it not grant it this way!

What the bourgeois professions, must be fought for its full approval today itself is concerned, we do
not know that I the employment of women as a lucky Consider. Happiness and satisfaction granted
probably just artistic or scientific activity - The so-called free professions - in contrast to the
secure day job. (The author this line itself belongs to the people with great also overcome only
two days a row can do quite the same.) At the gray, dreary monotony of most Bread professions
suffer but also the men. That women are fighting for admission to these professions, the best
proof that not adventurous pleasure, but compelling social reasons they made the "house" . Drive
out From inner passion to seek truth not in office or the office:
but if you have the choice of starvation or dodge with relatives,
or to to prostitute - with or without marriage - so it is simply still
prefer to the office, yes, even then, even if you completely without
any serious work in deadly boredom and Emptiness and "in perpetual
dependence on the home," patrols.

Leads to a disturbing obstacle female employment, the sexual functions,
in at all, motherhood, - for of course must also apply to the acquisition
married woman to be claimed - that is no objection to this objection,
that the guilty Consideration that one of the working woman at the
time when it needs the protection, certainly has to prove (not that
they do not require her, as many feminists believe), to be regarded
simply as a social duty for the good of the breed is, the performance
but not take more time than about the year of the military man, but
which has never been a Reason for the inability to exercise a profession
that was cited.

 The guards there were, as had happened with his residence in
the country, cut down. Fire was applied in a dozen places and, before the astonished troops
and inhabitants could rally, from the different parts of the town, the negroes were again in
the country; having fulfilled their object, and carried off with them a large additional stock
of arms.

Before the cavalry from the front could arrive, they were again far in the country; and, making
a long detour, gained their fastness, having struck a terrible blow, with the cost to themselves
of only some eight or ten lives. The penalties against piratical acts are generally characterized by an extraordinary Hardness.
However, these explained in view of the most damaging of piracy for economic life and its underlying
anti-social attitude to Sufficient for purely criminal policy considerations. Only the Austrian
law, the Navy introduced pirates indiscriminately punished with death, and the consideration
the specific manifestation of the crime, guilt or participation, completion or Attempt to explicitly
rejects, [45] seems the view of the Pirates as a non-through the laws of war protected enemy
are not very far, especially against pirates, whose it has become lay hands otherwise than
by the Navy, the much milder Provisions of the general criminal laws apply (StGB. § 190 et seq.)
Similarly draconian Provisions of the English and American law have been removed in recent times
[46].

4. A very common view in the literature teaches that there is a correlate of hostility Pirates of
the human race against a power of any commercial vessel does - without State Empowerment - taking
captured and punished under certain conditions even. This Teaching is doubly wrong, is not it
such a power, but if there were, so they would not be one of the conserved elements of the
legal war piracy law to understand.

A brief look at the root of the doctrine seems to refute the most appropriate way of it. It
goes back to Grotius: "Manet tamen vetus naturalis libertas, primum in locis, ubi judicia nulla
sunt, ut in mari. Thus it was imperative that every man, of
whose fidelity and constancy the least doubt was entertained, should be carefully sent out
of the way of temptation. All the band were, indeed, pledged by a most solemn oath; and death,
by torture, was the penalty awarded for any act of treachery.

The greater portion of the force were now provided with European arms. The negroes had musketoons
or arquebuses, the natives still retained the bow, while all had pikes and spears. They were
undefended by protective amour, and in this respect the Spaniards had a great advantage in
the fight; but, as the boys pointed out, this advantage was more than counterbalanced by the
extra facility of movement, on the part of the natives, who could scale rocks and climb hills
absolutely inaccessible to their heavily armed and weighty opponents.

The scouts, who had been stationed on the lookout at the edge of the forest, brought word that
the Spaniards, nigh 1500 strong, had divided in six bodies; and were marching so as to enter
the forest from six different, and nearly equidistant, points. It was called the anarchy and
lived in the deepest forest. But at night they came in
the city to demolish the houses and barns to burn, so a beast!
Luckily were our fathers louder heroes, none of which
is before any one was afraid, not even this rough Anarchy.
It was decided the general arming for King and country.
In Ernsttal there have been ancient times, a rifle and
a Gardekompagnie. The first shot after a wooden bird,
the last [sic] for a wooden wheel. These two Kompagnieen
should have two or three others were founded, especially for a Polish
Sensenkompagnie Totstechen from a distance. As it turned out
because, that in our small town a very unusual Lot of
people gave the extremely warlike disposition were
both strategically and tactically. Man wanted to miss any
of them. We counted them. It were thirty-three. The agreed
very well and counted to smooth out, namely: one needed
per Company ever a captain, a lieutenant and a Lieutenant,
when the archers and the guard still Nine new Kompagnieen
formed, it was found in the Summa eleven and thirty-three
officers were all under cover and trade. This proposal
has been executed with the head count of each Kompagnieen
Of course, all could be measured only small, but the drum
major, Mr. Strumpfwirkermeister Loeser, when the military
about thirty-three officers and confessed all einzuexerzieren,
had claimed that this is only advantageous for the smaller
is one company, the more people could be shot off in war of it,
and it remained in what had been decided.

My father was a captain in the Seventh Company. He
got a sword and a whistle. But he was not happy with this lot, and
he sought to better things. So he decided once he ausexerziert
was entirely in secret, without anyone anything it noted
in the "higher command" to practice.

    And he ausersah me, to help him here, it was I temporarily
excused from Handschuhnaehen and wandered with
him daily to go into the forest, where on a ring of bushes
and trees surrounding our Meadow secret evolutions have been
made. Father was soon lieutenant, now captain, now Colonel,
now General; I was the Saxon army. I was not until "Train",
then einexerziert as whole company. On this I was battalion,
regiment, brigade and division. I soon had to ride, sometimes
running, sometimes before and sometimes back now to
the right and left soon after, now retirieren and attack
soon. I was not on the Head had fallen, and joy and
love for the cause. But I was so young and small, and so
one with the sudden my general well-temperaments Thinking
that it was possible not to me, tell me in so short Time
from the simple, small platoon up to the to develop
full strength, mighty army, without the Strict discipline
of military experience to me have. But I cried at no
penalty, and I was proud to do so. A Saxon army, which is
crying, which gives not! Also, let the reward is not coming.
As the father became vice commander, he said to me:
"Boy, do you have a lot I helped build you. a drum.
You shall be swift! "How I was happy! And there were moments
when I really the conviction was that all these blows,
collisions, blows and Katzenkoepfe only for the benefit
and to save the king have received from Saxony and his
ministry to! If he only knew!

The drum I got, for father was always word. The master
plumber Leistner market in Hohenstein helped him to
build it. It was a very good successful solo drum, it
still exists today. I am later, when I was a little
bigger, but even as a boy, Tambour Company was in the seventh
and will this drum have to mention again. The eleven Kompagnieen
did their duty. They were drilling nearly daily, for which
there was more than enough time, because there was no work.
How could we still exist and what we have actually lived, I can do
today say no more, it seems like a miracle.

    There were also other places "savior king". Standing
each other and had decided as soon as the command would
be given to break up to Dresden and for the king to attempt
anything, even under circumstances life. And one fine day
he came to this command. The Bugles sounded and the drums beat.
Doors flocked from all the heroes in order to to gather
the marketplace. The butcher Haase was regimental adjutant.
He had a horse borrowed and sat there in the middle on it.
It was not an easy Thing for him, between the commander,
the to provide the commander and vice captains, because the
horse was always different than the rider. The woman Municipal
judge Layritz hung a tablecloth and their Sonntagssaloppe
to the windows. This was flagged. Who had something to that
made it for her. This won the Market Square a festive happy
countenance. Man was just impressed at all. No trace of
The pain of parting! No one felt the need of women and to
take leave children especially. Loud cheers, three times high,
Vivat, hurray everywhere! The Lord Commander made a
speech. Then a grand flourish of wind instruments
and drums. Then, the command calls the individual captains
"Caution - - Eye right, you rrrricht't - - Eye of grrrade
- - presented G'wehr - G'wehr at foot - - G'wehr on - -
- G'wehr about - - Rrrrechts to - - Forward march!
"This aide of the Lord on the borrowed horse, with the musicians
behind him the Turkish Schell tree, then the drummers,
the Commander and Vice Commander, and then the archers,
the Guard and the nine other Kompagnieen so marched the legions
left, right - left, right at that back alley and also
at the mine ponds over, the time we entrusted our frogs,
after Wuestenbrand to about Chemnitz and Freiberg
to reach the capital. A lot of relatives marched behind, to the
brave up to the to give outskirts of the town the convoy.
But I stood by my very special favorite, Lord Cantor
Bush, who was our neighbor, on his doorstep, while the Frederica,
his wife, a sister Lord of the city magistrate was Layritz.
They had no Children, and I was called to them
their little economic Affairs apprehended. I loved him
glowing; but it disgusted me, because it rewarded all my ways,
which I did for them, only with rotten Apples
or pears and allowed her doughy Man does not, per month
more than only two cigars To smoke the piece to two
pence. I had to Get it by Kraemer, because he was
ashamed, so cheap to buy himself, and he was smoking in the
yard, because the Fred could not tolerate the
smell of tobacco. Also today he was sincere at the sight of
our troops enthusiastic. By looking after them, he said:

"It
is something great, something noble about such Enthusiasm
for God, for King and country! "

"But what brings them?" the woman asked Cantor.

"It brings them luck, the real, true Lucky! "

With these words he entered the house, and he loved is
not to argue. I went to our court. Since There was a Franzaepfelbaum.
I sat down under the and thought about what the Lord said Kantor
had. So God, King and country, in these words is the true
happiness, I wanted and needed ! Save Later, then
life on these three Herumgemodelt words around and carved,
but may the shapes have changed, the inner being is
remained.

Of all those who came out today to large to perform heroic
deeds, first came the borrowed horse back. The Lord had
adjutant him a messenger To pass him brought home, because
running is better than Ride, and because the riders did
not have enough money left over, to replace the horse, if wounded
in battle or should be even shot. followed by the evening of Weaver
Kretzschmar.

    He claimed that he his flat-footed have not weitergekonnt,
this is a Natural mistake that could change as he does not.

    When it was dark had become, stood still a
few others which been dismissed for valid reasons and were brought
the message that our army corps behind Chemnitz in Oederan bivouac
and spies to Freiburg [sic] was sent to scout the local battlefield.

    In the morning came the really surprising, but entirely
not sad news that one of Freiburg [sic] the transfer will have to
immediately turn back, they would do not needed because the Prussians
were in Dresden indented, and so stand for the king and the government
not the least to fear more.

    One can probably think that today it is now no school
and no Work was. I, too, revolted against the glove patches.
I just pulled out and joined the brave Boys and girls to make
up eleven o'clock Kompagnieen and should consult their
homecoming against fathers. This plan was executed. We camped
at the Wuestenbraender ponds and then went as expected
came to them with martial music and drum beat Shooting
down the mountain, where our orphaned Women and mothers
were to us all, young and old, sometimes stirred, sometimes
laughing, to make and receive.

    

Why am I all so detailed narrative? Of deep impression,
because of which it made on me. I have demonstrated the sources
from which the causes my fate have merged. That despite
everything that happened later, not even a single Moment
in God's faith wavered and even then, if the fate of
me against the hard boards of the laws threw nothing
before respect of these laws lost, rooted partly in myself,
but some even in these small events of early youth, all
looked more or less decisive for me. I never had the words
of my good old cantor forget me not only to the flesh
and blood, but become spirit and soul.

After this excitement, the life returned to his quiet, former
railways back. I sewed back Gloves and went to school.
But this school not enough for the father. I should learn more
than that which gave the then elementary education. My
Voice developed into a rich, sonorous, extensive soprano.
As a result, the Lord took Kantor me to the carolers. I was
quickly accurately and courageously against the public
about. So came to me that after a short time the church
solos were transferred. The community was poor and she had Kirchenstuecke
expensive for no money left. The Lord Kantor had to
write it, and I wrote with. Where was not feasible,
because he composed himself and He was a composer! And what
for a while! But he from the small, insignificant small
village of Mittelbach, of blood-poor, uneducated parents,
had by hindurchgehungert study music formally until he Teachers
respectively. Kantor was only in blue linen skirt
and blue linen pants can dress and saw a dollar for a fortune
on, from which one could live for weeks.

    This poverty had brought him to the self-assessment.
He did not make itself felt. He was satisfied with everything.
A very excellent organ, piano and violin player, he was
also the composer and several Treatment every other musical
instrument and would have it can quickly bring fame and merit,
if him more confidence and courage as our own have
been would be. Everyone knew where in Saxony and the adjacent
regions, a new organ was inaugurated, there seemed quite
sure of the shrub from Ernsttal Kantor, to get to know
them and to be able to play again. That was the only joy that
he allowed himself. For will want more than just Kantor
of Ernsttal, to except he missed the courage especially
the Permission from the very stern wife Friederike, a girl
had been prosperous, and therefore in the Marriage "principal" as
zweiunddreissigfuessiger sounded, during which Mr. Kantor only the
voice of a gentle was granted "Vox humana".

    They possessed with their Brother together some orchards,
the fruits of which utilized with the utmost precision
were, and I just by it or rotten apples and doughy Pears
got that I have already mentioned. She knew But the giving
with a look as if they a kingdom give away. For the infinitely
high value of her husband, both as a person and as an
artist, she did not have the least understanding.
She was in her gardens and He therefore chained to
Ernsttal. To his intellectual Existence and his spiritual
needs she cares not. You will not open its books, and his
many Compositions disappeared once they were completed,
deep in the dusty boxes that were under the roof. When he
died, she has all this as a waste sold to the paper mill
without me this could stop because I was not at home. What
a deep, other hard to hold onto it's misery, for the
whole life of a female being tied to be that only breathes
air, and even lower in the most talented, most brilliant
man indeed not better heights allowed to come, that's not
to testify. My old Kantor could endure this misery only
because he a uncommon docility and this possessed a good-natured,
could never forget that he was a poor devil, Friederike
but a rich girl and also the sister of the Lord had been
city judge.

Later he gave me organ, piano and violin lessons. I have
already said that the father bow made to the violin
itself. This class was very Of course, for free, because
the parents were too poor to pay him. This was the
stern Friederike did not agree. The organ lessons
were in the Church and the violin lessons in the schoolroom
given, because the woman could not handle Cantor . See But
the piano was in the living room, and because if I knocked
to ask for, it was the Lord Kantor at times with nine
times out of the decision: "There are no classes today,
dear Karl. My Friederike can not stand it, she has migraines.
Sometimes it was said also, "she has the vapors." What
was, I did not know, but I thought it was for an increase
from what I knew not, from the Migraine. But that which
ceased only ever play piano when I was that I did not
want fallen. The good Mr. Kantor looked like the result
of, me that it gradually, as the degree of opportunity
it brought, taught in the harmony, which the Fred did
not need to know but that was in the later boyhood, and
as far as I am now not yet.

As my father was impatient in everything showed so also in
what he called my "education". Mind you my "educated" him;
concerned about the sisters it is less. He had all his hopes
on set that I will achieve in life and what remains it was
impossible to achieve, namely not only a happier, but also a
higher spiritual position in life. For the nachruehmen I need
him, that he indeed the Wish on a so-called good income
on the next was that he did on the higher value of the strong
Continued development of the intellectual personality.
He felt the inside more and more clearly than he
had in words was able to express. I was an educated, may
be a highly educated man, who for the general welfare of
humanity is able to achieve something, which was his
heart's desire, if he did not grad voiced in this, but in
other words. One can see He did not demand much, but that
was not presumptuous from him, but he always believed in what
he wished, and was fully convinced that it reached .
Can Sorry, but he was about the ways in where, and about the
means by which this goal was achieved is not clear, and
he underestimated the enormous Obstacles that opposed
his plan.

    He was to anybody, even the greatest sacrifice, but he thought
not that even the victim of a poor devil allergroesste
the resistance of the conditions compared to no fat not
a little bit of weight. And above all, he had no idea that
a very different man than he Among the conditions are with
manual key objectives such steer. He was of the opinion
that I especially to learn as much as possible, as quickly
as possible, have and thereafter has acted with the
utmost energy.

I had come with five years in the school, was discharged
from one of fourteen. The Learning came easily. I quickly
took my two One year older sister. Then, the textbooks
older boys bought. I had at home the Solve tasks which
they were placed in the school. So I was very foreign to class
soon, for such a small, Soft a big man, psychological
evils understood by the father of course as much as anything.
I believe that not even the teachers suspected that
for a big mistake was being committed. They went by the
modest considerations, that a boy one can teach anything
in its class, the very simple and, despite his youth in
the next class is put. These gentlemen were all more or
less with my father, friends, and so pressuring even the
Lord local school inspector to keep an eye about it, that as a boy,
eight or even at the neunjaehriger eleven and twelve year old sat.

    In reference to my intellectual progress, which
in an elementary school certainly not heard much,
though, that was probably true; mentally but it meant a
big, painful Theft, they would celebrate with me. I note
here that I very sharp of mind and soul, spiritually and
mental distinction. What me in classes, in I have my
age to have not heard, for my small Spirit was given, which was
on the other Side of my soul taken. I'm not sitting
at Peers. I was regarded as an intruder and hovered with
my small, warm, child-like mental Requirements in the air.
In a word, I was from the start was great and was a stranger from
year to year class alien. The guys who were behind me,
I had lost, without which, where I found myself to win.
I ask, not even about This seemingly tiny Hoechst, boys
unimportant fate to smile.
 At the second point an equal number of men were placed. A. is a villain, as is a Honorable
man, but unfortunately a criminal record. A. intends to
as the crush. He needs only to insult him and to be sued
by him. He then requests as the accused, submitted that
the criminal acts of the complainants be. This is done. You will
be PUBLIC Hearing read aloud. A. gets ten marks Offense
penalty; B. But in the former contempt and thrown
back into the former misery and is now swear that the one
punished for all resolutions, to "improve" themselves
are useless. If he is recurrent , it is certainly not surprising.
Unfortunately, there not a few lawyers who without concern
access to the most unfair means, the processes that
not to win in a factual manner are in personally hateful
and reckless way to lead. I, too, I had to deal with such
opponents, but always seen that our judges by such dirt never
be swayed. I am convinced that just these gentlemen would welcome
with joy when junta would finally those statutory provisions
in elimination, by which, as already said, every rogue is
enabled, the distant past and long since atoned again reveal.
Then would the significant number of so-called Erbitterungsrueckfaelle
probably soon in loss . Come

That I the foolish self-righteousness of his "dear Next led
"occurred, with full rights. It is and remains the main
cause of the ills that here are discussed. I certainly do
not claim that this based on an ethical deficiency.

     Oats.
. . . 4500 120 Ostrich feathers. 15 403 15 347 " Salted
fish 1,000 - " Angora sheds. . 79 555 268 690 " Cattle
hides. . 17 476 14 172 pieces Ox horn. . 23 519 34
208 " Horses. . . . - 188 " Ivory. . . 30 771 12 258
" Sheepskins. . . 250 922 203 741 " Goat skins. . . 147
798 89 680 " Brandy. . - 15 gallons Castantia wine.
- 76 " Wool. . . . 57.753.42 66.036.66 Centner in the
value of. £ 509 538 524 730 St. executed.

The customs revenue of the Port Authority were in October
1879 39.915 £. St; certainly a very considerable sum, considering
that Port Elizabeth would have barely 20,000 inhabitants.

3)
With regard to their location or the city of Grahamstown is
the "Settlers" as the most beautiful city the Cape Colony.

It spreads out through the picturesque banks of the upper reaches of Kowieflüßchens waste on
the first stage of the South African High Plateau.

Grahamstown is home a Catholic and English (high church) bishop and has several educational institutions.
It is connected to Port Elizabeth through the web and is now with its port, Port Alfred connect
a rail line in close relationship, which the city big advantages would provide. Among the attractions
is the Cathedralthurm at the top (on the church itself is built), it is the most beautiful in
South Africa and with the biggest bells provided, the Promotion of the construction has made
the dome above the Rev. Dean Williams earns high. Are also worth seeing: a building complex of
the former military commando's for South Africa a parade ground and the adjoining botanical garden,
also at the opposite Town end the insane asylum and the temporary home in the city housed Bathurststraße
Museum. It is maintained by the city and by contributions from private individuals and has many
Fossils, mostly by Dr. Atherstone for the same purchase, and also a rich ornithological Collection
and an important herbarium. In general, all scientific disciplines, and the ethnographic, fairly
well represented. In the courtyard some living animals are kept.

4 belongs and 5) Cradock to the major cities of the colony and is in the very near future be connected by
rail to Port Elizabeth. The city has a curiosity that Dutch Church, which is more like a council
house as a church and at a cost £ 30,000 was built by St..

Of great importance is the Gilfillanbrücke Cradock, a railroad construction on three pillars
dormant. It was washed away in 1874 from the treacherous Fish River and has since been applied to
six feet higher.

Close to the city, partly in their field as on the nearby farm of Mr. von Rensburg found warm sulfur
springs, the soil their immediate environment as the deep layers of ash. Two wool scouring
are created here. District of Cradock is one of the largest in the colony, and especially
by his Breeding of angora goats and ostriches excellent. He is one of the mountainous districts
and places unusually rich in fossil remains of the Dicyuodon. lived in Cradock himself of the
Geology of the district-deserved said Dr. Grey, unfortunately it has a death too early, before
he still able to finish his research, taken from the science.

6) Cole Mountain, situated on the main road from Port Elizabeth to the diamond fields, has in
recent years gained significant.

On my outward trip I stayed here only two Hours, on the way home the other hand, five days.

7) Jagersfontein has in very recent years, notably by the vivacity of merchants in Fauresmith won
significant.

8) The desire and intention to animals, which normally in captivity is difficult to have survived to
see flourish in front of me, moved me to plant a small garden animals, in which I, among other animals
Proteles Lalandii, the aardvark, animal sheds, Rohrrüßler etc. held. After the former, I was
searching in vain for several years until I finally two Animals from an ivory dealer bought it from
and in a seven-foot staves erected fencing kept. The next morning I found only one animal, the
other, although still quite young, had a negative on the way to the outside and knew aufzuscharren
was, as the proven carried out, torn apart by dogs have been. The survivors wanted to take a long
time absolutely no food. The small teeth of this remarkable Predator on termites and it has so
I had no choice but to force him the food - chopped, soaked in milk meat - we spending. After a few days after
getting the bottom of the spacious kennel with paving stones, let it ate this food from my
palm, I had them but in a cup or in its structure, it did not at the same. So it went through
a full four months, three times the day I had to feed the animal by hand. Gradually the animal
was tame in some ways, it only occasionally snapped, and it establish his mane highly cultivated.
Since during my fourth visit to the diamond fields the number of my patients increased from
week to week, I was forced, the treatment Most of my animals and the feeding of one of my black servant Proteles
to pass. I gave myself up hoping the animal will be compelled by hunger, seek out even the food
had me fooled, however, it was the same three days completely untouched and bit me when I told
him on the fourth day of violence some small bits of meat introduced in the throat. Two days later
the animal was starved.

9) The salt pan (salt lake) at the Water Hall Farm has two bays, north
and one to the west, on the southern shore stands a never missing
from the lime peel strength of existing Hill, otherwise their banks
very flat and rocky, the rock usually in the form of greenstone Blocks
of almond-shaped, pink-red Chalcedoneinschlüssen. dried up in the
middle, it was deep at the deepest point no more than two feet, so
that the bottom surface appeared very flat, but one could clearly
perceive that the small salt lake in earlier periods, a higher Water
level had than at present. lead to the bays, but by today, in the
immediate vicinity fallen down torrents of rain flowing streams.

It seems to me that this, Like most other salt lakes, was deeply embedded in the ground, as
they only without runoff Country strokes occur. Located in the stream beds by flowing water of
the pan, which is sometimes even small rocks plates sweeps leaches from the saline soil, and
since the water is very quickly evaporates, the salt content concentrated during the drought
in the remaining Laugh and makes the contents of the same unpalatable. The immediate vicinity of the
bushy savanna, especially close to the north and northwest, in what direction followed by a Kameeldornwald.
We investigated the sites, ie to the ruins, which one of us as radicals Monopotapa had called,
but we were by the same not even the slightest indication, however, Some mines gesimsartig
shaped slate. The same bore no trace of human Work itself, there are layers of shale, which are
usually stacked in a horizontal position to each other were and which in this position, a flow
at different periods with different Starch acts. The position where the slate was split transversely
after, came the water , and produced the round slices, which were considered as fragments of columns.
The Most slates have a firmer structure in the middle, one might say that they peel, and hence the
observed in some lens shape. In geological Relationship is of great interest is the place temporarily,
as long as no excavations to a the results lead, for the archaeologist of no importance. I
believe that Excavations, which I hope to hold at this point, our new light on the Geology Südfrika
will offer's. Provisional is the dream of the brilliant past vanished and only the prosaic reality remained
that the pan provides good salt. More recently, made by the luck of the Zulu's in the first battles
be goaded Koranna become bolder and the area's uncertain way, and behaved with the court officials
over so outrageous that armed men had to be sent against them, the Thieves take. Unfortunately,
these were received by the Koranna's with weapons in hand, being a white man lost his life before
the deprived farmers and the laws mocking satisfaction could be procured.

10) The carotid arteries were unharmed, however, violates the external laryngeal arteries hard.
I Association for the time being, the arteries and then sewed together the divided Adam's
apple. The Condition of the wounded was a very worrying and fear Piämie. I gave small doses
of quinine, 1 / 10 gram in liquid form every three hours, also Tinctura Aconiti napellus one
drop every four hours with water, and three times of the day, the South African in my Practice
found to be excellent tincture ferri sesquichlorati in two drip cans.

When I came on the third morning of my patients, I heard upon entering into the room escape a
strong air flow through the throat wound with the peculiar noise. The patient was during the
night relapse into hallucinations and had his larynx, and ripped the right wing of the external wound.
I removed using the forceps and the scissors, the torn parts of the
larynx, resulting in a gaping opening in the front Wall of the Adam's
apple was, etched with Lapis surrounding me appears to be bad Meat
bodies washed from the wound and applicirte a weak silver nitrate
solution.

Already on Next day the fever took off and the patient improved from that moment, without to
read once a deterioration in his condition. Six weeks later the front wall of the larynx and
a large bean-opening and closed after eight weeks from the day of treatment or use, the wound
was closed until pea-size to a depression a completely shallow scar behind. The voice of the
patient was less noisy, but not to call too hoarse.

11) After Gassibone offered its territory of the Transvaal Republic and this is also assumed
Mankuruana feared that he must be a subject of that state, and offered a northern from hard-up
against the lower River Molapo are extending the area, with a Ausnahmne small race track near Taung,
the British government, which adopted it. I allowed myself when this happened, the colonial
government to make Mankuruana to character's attention, mainly on the fact that his declaration
of "loyalty and friendship" to believe very little pay should. The impact actuated my view: and
the Transvaal government had become English, he changed his game, until very recently, he was
again friendly and English minded, but only, after his vassals, Mora from Kuruman injustices
whites compared to carried away and had been chastised for it.

12) When in the mid-fifties Freistaatboers in a struggle with the southeast living Basutokönig
were conceived Moshesh used, some south of the Vaal living Koranna's with their chief Kousop
(Kusop) the exposure caused by this war the north-western Free State
farms of the male population to the war abcommandirt was to attack
the insidious way they initially located sites of whites, nachdenm
and the women and children killed, the entire herd in their homeland
, And as they flee, according to this nefarious deed in the Free State
do not feel safe, their to leave office and to cross the Vaal River.

Kusop went to Gassibone, I visited the father of the Chief of the Batlapinen, and after him from
his prey Gifts given, he was informed of this permission - because Gassibone as the Paramont the real
boss Head of the Batlapinen was accepted - to settle in his territory. When the Batlapinen
the great herds saw Kusop robbed, they were moments when the sons of the old Gassibone, Pohu'tsive
and Bojong, the command imparted immediately prepared according to the course of a robbery Free State to
arm, to which there is also a leader of the neighboring Bamairen »Motlabane" took part and were
attacked by which the Transvaal farms in the east. Since the war with Moshesh was not finished
and the raid on the east side was suddenly found the wild Neither the state nor hordes of outdoor
areas in the Transvaal, and returned with considerable resistance countless prey loaded in their
area between the lower and middle-Hart Vaal River Previous residences.

As, however, the news of these attacks in the Free State and the Transvaal areas, spread upgraded
all of those farmers who could only agreement, against Kusop, he was killed in battle and sent
a portion of the stolen cattle, together with his own removed. The remnants of his men fled to
Mamusa, or followed the farmers to come into their services. Pohu'tsive, the retribution of his predatory
That in his father's kraal feared thought that it would be better, the Dutch farmers, before they
even reached their farms to attack, destroy them and the flocks to hunt. His plan has been to
surround the troops of the whites. But the attackers were fight back, distracted, interrupted
their ranks on all sides, and killed the leader, before he could reach his father's kraal.
Without the attack Gassibone's waiting for the father, now attacked the farmers who were also reinforced
by immigration, he and his Motlabane allies, and beat both the former was beheaded later. The so-
scattered Koranna's Batlapinen Bamairen and fled to Taung, and there still some succeeded to entkonmmen
with the stolen cattle, the warriors followed in their footsteps up to Taung. Mahura, king of the
eastern Batlapinen had those raids of the other Southern Batlapinen does not approve, but he
was not willing to have fled to him to extradite members of the tribe with their stolen good. So he sat
down on the defensive, took the fight and stood against the farmers. He was beaten and his men
fled themselves in the rocky caves above the city, after the Dutch version defend it trachtend,
left to their own now from the bottom campirenden Boers, where they look to to be shot down.
The defeat of Taung led to a peace that the children's Mahura on behalf of her father with +, signed
the peace terms were exaggerated and Cruel, but there is no Batlapinen Mahura's depredations
against the Boers guilty had. The punishment was for the extradition of some of the privateers
and the payment of 8000 Head of cattle, 390 horses and 500 muskets, a contribution which the
combined Batlapinenstämme at that time could not afford.

13) Mankuruana's Batlapinenreich equates the other northerly Betschuanareichen is a parallelogram,
whose long sides of west by north to east to south and from west go to east. The eastern boundary
of this empire is partly from the Harts River, partly Marico District of the Transvaal Republic,
the lower Maricolaufe, as well as the central Limpopo formed, which extends deep into the western
Kalabari Bushveldt-up to Great Namaqualand. The ruling tribes of Bechuanaland's that Batlapinen, Barolongs,
Banquaketsen and Bakwena's, and some of them related strains, which were allowed to stay in
the country, the Bamairen, Botlaro's Baharutse, Makhosi, Manupi, Batloka Bakhatla and live
in the eastern part of the territory in areas which are rich in water, while water stress, in
part, central, partly western lines by their servants, the Makalahari's, and the Barwa's Masarwa's,
are inhabited. The Makalahari, also called Bakalahari can, when the king long good services
rendered, and when they brought their masters happy hunting through many benefits, be explained
by these free, it will then be allowed in the residence of the king or a sub-chief to stay
and they are considered Batlapinen or Barolongs and etc. treated. Rev. Mackenzie, who had for 20 years
an opportunity to the relation between the two observed strains, the servants and masters, noted
that even the servants Bakhalahatsane or Bathu-hela ("people or" like other people ") of the
latter are called. The rich are the Bechuanaland Mankuruan's the smallest, and at least so far
the been productive, but if the tribe through the present, from the government in Griqualand
West-taken measures become more industrious, he is the mixed farming can easily come up, and
it comes close to the diamond fields particularly at best.

14) In the diamond fields was the widespread view that those working
in the same Black leaders bring their diamonds from fields in the
home were required.

I do not think that this happens regularly and is required of all native leaders, but by some chiefs,
as from other Secoccuni and it was quite safe; but that Bechuanaland's many send their Makalahari
and Barwadiener to the diamond fields to work, without their chiefs aware of these thefts is
equally certain. The main author of the countless crimes committed against the side of their
colored servants Diggers of thefts, however, less the ignorant natives, but that band of degenerate whites
and half-casts, what a true scourge of the diamond fields are, and yet many of them from the Poor
of justice have been achieved, continued excessive mischief for a long time. The Authority holds
of course primarily to the factual ones criminals, she seeks but also the instigator to eruiren.
In the case where a white man or half the cast was guilty, this is the thief immediately admit,
however, probably never, if the thief by his relatives, his same color Men at home, was sent
to the Diamond District "to work." Most people suffer their punishment, her tongue and her three-year
prison without betraying something home they had to fear in the opposite case the revenge of their
masters.

15) The ethnographical relations in the areas between the Konana, hard and Vaal River recognize
that the Koranna element from the south has spread to the north can. I think that the Hottentots,
which moved along the west coast to the south and the western part the Cape Colony populated,
is divided, that is, disputes and wars among themselves eroded, partly forced, partly voluntarily
left those areas, with a part in Valley of the Orange River moved upward (that follow the
rivers is a Charakteristicum in the spread of the Hottentot tribe) and at last in the fertile fields
of the Association of the yellow and black Gariep (Orange and Vaal
Rivers) settled.

The altered Lifestyle, influence of climate, as well as their partial mixing with the Bushmen in the
south and east, with the Barwa's in the north, perhaps with the tribes in the West generated those
changes which characterize it at the Orange River settled tribe, it separated from the actual Hottentots
and the Griqua stamped. (I believe that the could easily derive the name Griqua as a linguist
from the Koranna Hottentottensprache, what would certainly be of importance.) Griqua These have
the change of its initial Element not win, physically and mentally, they are among their ancestors
as well as the Koranna's back under the Griqua's, which I consider as a branch of the latter,
which would be similar to that of the Griqua's from the Hottentots taken place.
 They had constantly acted
with the boys; and had, indeed, been their chief advisers in the matters internal to the tribe;
and the lads had little doubt that, for some time at least, things would go well in the mountains.
As to the ultimate power of the refugees to maintain their independence, this must, they felt,
depend upon events beyond them. If the Spaniards were left at peace, and undisturbed by English
adventurers or other troubles, there was little doubt, sooner or later, they would destroy
the whole of the natives of this island, as they had destroyed them in almost every place where
they had come in contact with them. However, the boys had the satisfaction of knowing that
they had been the means of, at least, prolonging the existence of this band, and of putting
off the evil day, perhaps for years to come.

The Simeroons paddled out from the creek and, hoisting the sail, the boat merrily danced over
the water; and the boys felt their spirits rise, at the hope of seeing their countrymen, and
hearing their native tongue again, after eighteen months passed, absolutely separate from all
civilized communion. 

With lush, tropical species-characterized by some overgrown vegetation, small Mountain valleys,
and some marshy meadows near the river, but mainly its dichtbebuschten and leafy shore, and
soon to be rocky, sometimes muddy bed house, especially suitable as a hideout, a species-rich
animal world. I regret that I Klipdrift and its immediate surroundings always only in passing, usually
could touch on the march; for longer stays here waving the scientific collector's abundant
harvest; because in general the place as a haven from the monotonous desolation of the South
African highlands stand out. But even during my short stay I took of falcons and hawks some
interesting way, gray owl's, mountain, tree, swamp, and also rather dwarf owl represented, and
several species of crows, and especially in the bush Dick densities of the shore, and in the
Near the farms Staararten five of which I the small, big and beautiful, long-tailed Glanzstaar
wants to emphasize. Many are the Strangler, but the more numerous seed-eating birds, represented by
the latter, I noticed several long-tailed finches on, but also missing reactors and other insects-eating
birds do not particularly wagtails, Snapper, tube traps, etc. Of woodpecker-like birds I met only two,
however, several species Colibri's and a kind of bee-catcher, as well as two kingfishers and Kukuksarten
on. Also, the already mentioned, long-tailed mice small bird, swallows and several nightjars-Species
The most frequent symptoms, in appropriate circumstances are also the other the fauna of South
Africa's present characterize bird species, but especially pigeons, little bustard species Stilt
birds, ducks and divers. Among the reptiles were in particular three species of tortoises, in
addition to living in water, often found between the rock blocks to the heights. The ordinary turtle, the
common South African tortoise, and flat type with square green drawings in the centers of the upper plates.
observed from fish I five species, of which I have a northward to the Zambesi addition, in
all waters both in fresh water, as vorfand in the salt pans and salt fluxes. It is the South
African Catfish with schildförmigem head.

Only here, in the immediate vicinity of Klipdrift, I succeeded in my four horses against the capability
to exchange draft oxen, and although I respect it in pecuniary loss
suffered, I was delighted one on the exchange, because the neighborhood
was already in the year grassi Rende horse disease has broken out
near us and sunning themselves already several Pferdecadaver.

My team now consisted of six oxen, of which, unfortunately, two very stubborn and intractable,
while the seller had me all to be extremely tame, docile animals and par excellence praised.
Had the horse not yield grassi disease is already so clear evidence of their murderous Circumstances
as they arise in our neighborhood, I would probably come off better in the exchange, but as it the man seemed
reluctant to conclude the business to do. With the increase of my trailer combination I also
grew the concern to hire at least two colored servants, as a "Leader" to guide the lead pair of oxen
and span of the series "a" Driver of the team with the whip had to hunt. Again, this need was soon met,
at a visit of F. Korannadörfchens friend had met a German living here, I made the request now,
we choose among his neighbors two stout young men and to hire a few weeks as a servant. That same
day brought us this a real Korannajüngling of about 16 years and a Korannabastard named Gert,
which is Both were inclined against a weekly wage of eight shillings and 6 pence in my Services
connect.

To my great surprise, the German settlers asked a single favor in return a visit to his sick
wife. I gladly followed him and found myself soon afterwards in a small, half in European, half
in the style of the Korannahütten exported small building, where the man lived in a society
Bastard family. His wife was one of these Hybrids. She was dressed in miserable, but neat cloth
and taught the first look me of the nature of their illness, the
poor fellow was entirely a result most oppressive cares exhausted,
I was unfortunately later opportunity to send their tonic medicines.

While I spoke with the woman who had joined us a little about six year old girl approached with a
truly fine and beautiful facial features and kurzgelocktem, dark blonde hair. There was no trace
of the dark complexion of his mother in itself. About my question, as is the man could bring
himself to settle here among the colored people, I received the Answer: "Do not live here
long, have over 300 £ h. I through my many years of work in the colony acquired in those abandoned
diamond mines over there lost and now must I do Taglöhnerarbeit, and in all these troubles, sorrows
and disappointments, I found this colored woman so faithful, devoted and compassionate human
being that I am not easily separated from it. "could

Despite frequent rain showers, which is set during our stay in Klipdrift had not we thought of
giving up our most familiar camp for the night under the wagon; our ingenuity soon found a
remedy. The camp was also not to deny a certain original and fantastic train. Our servants
did not appear only be well versed in the mythology of South Africa's well, but also among the
gods of the Antiquity have so many patrons, above all, seemed Bacchus their patron saint and
Morpheus Loved it to be. If we had not stopped to work, they would be able been to six hours of
the day the service of the former, and the rest of the day the latter
to pay.

Yes, Gert went on so far that he fell asleep often during the meal.

Having provided us with some commission, including flour, tea and sugar, we left Klipdrift broke
and to the north, against the union of the Harts River to the Vaal River, in the inhabited
regions of western Batlapinen, and I have some of the downstream lying abandoned River Diggings
and touch first the lying halfway Gong Gong wanted. The area was visited by a moderately hilly,
west of the Vaal River 'steep sloping, only locally dense bushy plateau on which several branches
the Koranna's and Batlapinen were scattered.

For the hunter as naturalists, the land between the lower Vaal River hard and so far special interest,
as one from the south here, first the "blue of the Dutch farmers Wildebeest, "of the Bechuanaland's"
cocoon-called gray striped Gnu (Catoblepas Gorgon) pack as encounters. It spreads from here and from
the northern parts of the Orange Free State to the north to the Zambesi, and is larger than the black
or common wildebeest, thereby even less wild. His horns also differ substantially from those
of the common wildebeest, they are in fact bent forward and inward, and are similar to those of
some of our short-horned Cattle breeds.

The hunters distinguish both species by the color of tail hair, by the black by a white, the black
and bluish-gray ground, especially on the front and upper body Gnu striped with a black tail
from a great distance can be seen. In the treeless Plains of the western parts of the Cape Colony to
23 Degrees north latitude, it is In addition to the Springbok and the Bläßbockgazellen the most
abundant game.

In late afternoon we turned into a small ravine, the outputs of other
things, Vaalthale some canvas houses and tents were visible, there
were the remains of the once thriving Gong Gong, which popped out
gracefully from the dark green lush foliage trees.

Also missing some Koranna and Betschuanahütten not running on the rocky and low slope of the
plateau built between the stone blocks were. Across from Gong Gong is the even poorer looking
Waldek Plant.

We proposed in the village of themselves on a welcoming spot pitch
our camp.

A car was for Gong Gong and Waldek-Plant with a difference and we were soon the subject of become
the most general attention.

The diamond mines of Gong Gong were on the slope, those in the valley, close to the river and
in the old bed of the river had already left a long time. I found more life in Waldek-Plant, which
is also by the discovery of two beautiful stones of the same pit
in a name won.

It was a yellowish stone, which weighed 288 carats and a second ¼ whitish, in among its members
a blackish stain showed not unlike a fly and therefore the 'was fly (fly) called the Diamond.
" Their finding was once after a long fruitless Claim sell his work,
but no one was found, which made its request would, to be not idle,
he decided by himself, without aid of black servants, the continue
digging and searching.

The Bishins faithless luck smiled at him now and he was first the large, short time after the
Fly-Diamond and "overnight became a" made man. The Worthy of the great stone was then given as
£ 10,000 St. and I remember that it after my return from the first trip to the Central Diggings
considerable time issued against a shilling entrance was.

Gong-Gong we took a northern direction from the Harts River, some white, from the distance,
shimmering against the points on the Vaal steeply down rocky hills lowering referred to us
the places where a few years ago the thriving River Diggings New-Kierkegaard-Rush Others were.
The section from Gong Gong to Delportshope (this is not quite a mile from the Harts River estuary
from here) is surely one of the most uncomfortable that I passed each of a car. I could not
believe how the time of the flower of the River Diggings on such traffic paths the needs of
thousands of people by means of the axis were procured. On the throughout the journey to be
possible as a road mud guard who used one of Wasserfluthen washed
gravel floor.

The ride on this road was, how easily conceivable, an agonizing; no it was a rear wheel from
one of the many water-filled holes through the combined Efforts of the animal and the virtuosic
handling of the huge whip from side of Korannatreibers conveyed out, as once again pulled up one of the
front wheels through an almost foot-high block was. To make the last straw, the yoke of bullocks
unaccustomed began in stubborn way to refuse their services.

No wonder that this trip took three times as long to complete. A look at both Sides of the road
scattered debris lying around gave us a car, albeit weak Consolation, we were not the only ones who
had to suffer this agony. Unfortunately, this journey, all my heat and barometer fell victim. Meeting
a Batlapinen, carrying on a Kiri, a popular weapon among the Zulu and Bechuanaland, a bunny, took
my interest to complete. The weapon is also made of wood (in the northern Bamanquato from the horn of the
Rhinoceros) worked, 20-90 inches long and runs from one end in a hen's egg from a fist-large, simple
or carved ball. In the struggle, is the Kiri is a very effective weapon, whether it applies to the
use of hunting and throw some strains him with true virtuosity.

In the Matabele, the Kiri that terrible weapon, with which the Zulu's the skull of the male adult
population of the rebellirenden Makalakadörfer struck.

In addition to the hare the man carried a pair of tanned leather worked with animal sinews neatly stitched
together unspeakable, together with him, which I buy the game, and the weapon wanted. "No,"
he replied, in broken Dutch, "det bridge over" (the Bechuanaland's have in their Sechuana [1]
no designation for many of the imported articles from the Europeans, so they take it in the
Dutch or English word in common use, of course disfiguring, or rewrite it with more of their
own language), "I bring to could said my "Bas" (Lord) to Klipdrift, "the hare, he, himself well
and need the Kiri he could not even leave us already, because he's a protection against the Phyci
(Hyena) needed. As a resident of the colony to be his cape on his travels two, usually of iron or
Assagaiholz ​​worked out with sticks, so does and the Bechuanaland
and Zulu with his Kiri.

Did he at pasture or in a tall grass Little Bustard remarked, he looks as close 'as possible
to stalk rises, then Suddenly, the bird flying up and bring to at that moment rushes be smaller at
the end of thickened floor through the air. He does this as clever as he is as a shooter clumsy
acts. The game on the unpredictable levels between the average hard-River and the upper Molapolaufe
is through this awkwardness become extremely shy.

1: The language of the Bechuanaland's.

Gradually, the country fell to the Harts River, the valley appeared broad and open, and in
the North from a distance by the "N'Kaap," the bushy and rocky drop in the Highlands is limited.
The Association of hard and Vaal Rivers was always me as a particularly beautiful landscape
portrayed, I thought this only as opposed to the nature of beautiful sceneries so poor areas
Griaqualand-West confirmed.

From the south, spread over here before the rapids then rushing waters the Vaal River in a large
muddy bed, where she quietly flowing as it were Come to catch something
just before the mouth of the river a hard coming from the northeast
sudden turn to make to the West, and after that direction for a short
distance followed a decision to take south-southwest.

    The left Vaalufer at the bend is marshy, passed with tall trees and
contains so many a wild cat, lynx and similar Raubgethier, and several
herds of feral pigs.

The southern portion of the right bank of the upper layers of humus in the lower Clay is formed,
a fertile, only directly from the mouth of the river with tall trees overgrown layer. The other side of
the hard flux is much higher, also rises to a Rock level up, the
bearings made of slate and limestone overlain by petrefactenarmem,
those mentioned above after the N'Kaap protracted plateau forms.



"That is a question more easily asked than answered," Ned said, cheerfully. "We have saved
our skins for the present, now we have got to think out what is the best course to pursue."

"I don't see any way to get back to the ship," Tom said, after a long pause. "Do you?"

"No," Ned replied. "I don't, Tom. These savages know that they have cut us off, and will be
on the watch, you may be sure. They shoot so straight, with those little bows and arrows of
theirs, that we should be killed without the least chance of ever getting to close quarters.
Besides, the admiral will doubtless believe that we have been slain, and will sail away. We
may be sure that he beat off the fellows who were attacking him, but they will all take to
the woods, and he would never be able to get any distance among the trees. Besides, he would
give up all hope of finding us there. As to our getting back through the wood, swarming with
savages, it seems to me hopeless."

"Then whatever is to become of us?" Tom asked, hopelessly.

"Well, the lookout is not bright," Ned said thoughtfully, "but there is a chance for us. We
may keep ourselves by killing wild animals, and by pushing inland we may come upon some people
less treacherous and bloody than those savages by the seashore. If so, we might hunt and live
with them."

Tom groaned.

"I am not sure that I would not rather be killed at once, than go on living like a savage."

"The life is not such a bad one," Ned said. They felt instinctively that I was woefully
less enviable, but rather. The others, mostly Lehrersoehne
had, not so much learned, but what they had learned was probably
stored up and good order in the chambers of your memory, always ready
to be used. I felt, I was at a disadvantage against much
and refused but me, I admit it and them. My quiet
and industrious main work was, first of all to create order
in my poor head, and the was unfortunately not as fast
as I wished. That What I built was always back on. It
was like a tedious digging through a pile of snow
Throughout, the mass slides down again and again. And It
was a contrast which is absolutely not wanted it
removed. Namely the contrast between my extraordinarily
fertile imagination and Drought and the local absolute Poesielosigkeit
Teaching. I was still too young to I would have seen
where this drought came. It taught namely less what was to
learn, but rather the way in which we learn had. We were
taught to learn. We had the understood, the distance was
easy. We were given nothing but bones, so the almost
painful drought of teaching. But deals from these bones
Adding together the skeletons of the individual sciences,
the meat was then added later. With me but had been
grad the reverse happened: I Although I had dragged
along a vast quantity of meat, but not a single supporting,
supportive To bone. In my knowledge was lacking, the solid
Skeleton. I was in relationship to what I mentally
possessed a jellyfish that is neither inner nor outer possessed
a stop and therefore no place where she could feel at
home. And the worst this was, the boneless meat of these
jellyfish was not healthy but ill, seriously ill, it was of
the pulp novels of the cone landlord poisoned.
The I really began only now view and was drawn all
the more unfortunate there when I to anyone could talk
about this without me debunk. The degree of dryness and,
I must say well, the Soullessness this seminar instruction
was that led me to the realization of my poisoning. I found
for the skeletons that we have been taken to prevent We
would like to revive it, no healthy flesh in me. All
I zusammenfuegte and what I inwardly tried to build was
informal, was ugly, was untrue and illegal. I began to fear
to get me, and worked incessantly to my spiritual figure
around to clean me inside to To clean and arrange to lift,
without assistance in Must take to claim that it indeed
does not was. I would have liked one of our teachers entrusted,
but they were all so sublime, so cold so unapproachable,
and, above all, I felt out, none of them would have understood
me, they were not Psychologists. They had looked at me
strangely and are simply leave.

For this purpose, came the innate, irresistible urge for
intellectual activity. I learned very easily and therefore
had much time left. So I wrote poetry in Breastfeeding:
yes, I composed. The few pennies that I was not necessary,
were applied in writing paper. But what I wrote that
should be no Schuelerarbeit but something useful, something
really good. And what I wrote? Of course, a very Indian
stories! Why? Of course, quite to print be! By whom? Very
obvious thing in the "Arbor", which was founded several
years ago was, but already has been read by everyone.
There was I age sixteen.

    I sent a manuscript. As a whole week nothing happened
then, I asked for response. There was none. So wrote I
am more a fortnight in a more stringent Tone, and after
another two weeks, I asked my Manuscript back to get it to
another editor to . Send It came. This is a letter from
Ernst wedge itself written four large quarto pages long. I was
away like this to appreciate the way it was appreciated.
He lectured me start off quite efficient, so I
I really sincerely ashamed, because he counted me hoechst precisely
all misdeeds, which I, of course, without knowing it had
committed in the narrative. Against the closing down of
the milder accusations, and on Finally he handed me,
the stupid boy, delighting the Hand and told me that he was
not shocked excessively would be if, after four or five
years back should set an Indian story from me to
him. He got none, but because I do not wear the Blame,
but conditions did not permit. The was the first literary
success, which I recorded have. At that time, of course,
I thought it was an absolute Failure and I felt very unhappy
about it. Meanwhile, time passed. I got out of the Proseminar
in the fourth, third and second seminar class, and in This
second class was to find myself that fate about fell out of
which my opponents are so over-sounding Capital have beaten.

There was a seminar in the use that the get to each class
in turn issues were of each for a week. So was the person
as "Wochner" means. There was also the first Class a
"Ordnungswochner" and the second a "Lichtwochner", the
latter of the illumination of the Classroom was about to
see. This illumination was then by using tallow candles, of
which, if one was burned, another was being raised again.
The Lichtwochner had daily cleaning up the old worthless candle
making and in particular the Dillen of the stuck-wick and
Talgresten to clean. These residues were either simply thrown
away, or man of the house to boot or other grease melted.
They were generally regarded as worthless.

It was the beginning of the Christmas week, when the series
Lichtwochner to be, came to me. I got this Work like any
other.

    On the day before the Christmas Christmas Eve
began our vacation. On the day previously was one of my sisters,
my laundry to pick up the little luggage, which I use
in the had to take a vacation. It did this constantly, as
often as Holiday was. The way they because of Ernsttal
after Waldenburg was made for two hours. So also now.
When they came this time, I was just cleaning the candlestick.
She was sad. It was not good home. There was no work and
therefore no merit. Mother used, as even the poorest people,
for the Christmas at least some pie. The they can hardly
afford this year had. But bestows [sic] could be nothing,
absolutely nothing, because it lacked the money to do so.
There were no lights for the Christmas candle. Even
the wooden angels of the smaller sisters should be
without light. These angels were three small Light,
the piece for five or six pennies, but if these eighteen pence to
others, necessary Things were needed, so one had to be just .

    Add That did me harm. The sister was the Cry behind
the eyes. She saw the Talgreste I just scraped down from
the dill and the chandeliers had. "Could
one not from some Light make a penny, "she asked." Quite
easily, " I answered. "You need to a Papierroehre and
a wick, nothing more. But it would burn bad because this
stuff is only at most for smear . Use "" If even, though!
It would, indeed a kind of light for the three angels.
Who owns this waste? "" Actually, no one. I have it
to create the home. Whether he throws away or not his thing.
"" So it would probably not stolen, if we are a bit
of it home ? Avail themselves of "Stolen. Ridiculous! No
falls A man! All the dirt is not three pence value. I'll
wrap a little thereof. This We make three small Christmas
lights. "

No sooner said than done! We were not alone. Another Seminarian
stood by. One of the first class, So a class above me. I am
reluctant, his to name names. His father was a policeman.
This brave schoolmates saw everything with. He warned me
not, but he was quite friendly here, went continued and
- - - showed me. The director came in person to investigate
the "theft". I confessed to a very quiet, which I had
done and was the "robbery", which I had committed back.
I thought indeed no harm. But he called me a "Infernal character"
and called on the teachers' conference together,
to decide about me and my punishment. Even after half
an hour she was announced to me. I was dismissed from the
seminary and was Go where I pleased. I went straight to the Sister
- - - in the sacred Christian holiday - - - Without tallow
for the Christmas angels - - - there were The very cloudy,
dark Christmas. I well at all I have said, that degree
for Christmas I have been a time of sorrow, not joy often
was. On these holy days of Christmas extinguished flames
in me, lights that I had been worth it. I learned between
Christianity and its adherents . Distinguish I met Christians
who were unchristian proceedings against me, as Jews,
Turks and Gentiles would proceed.

Fortunately, there was the Ministry of Culture and public instruction,
to which I turned, intelligent and humane than the Seminar Director.

    I obtained without further permission, my broken continue
studies at the seminar in Plauen. I was there in the
same class, so in the second, and was only covered a class
for the teacher's examination, which I received my
first job in Glauchau, but soon after came Altchemnitz,
in a Factory school, whose students exclusively from fairly
adult factory workers passed. Here are my To begin confessions.
I put on, without fear, the truth, as if I was not even
me, but with a different one, I busied stranger.

I come back to the poverty of my parents. The exam had
required a tuxedo suit, for our Conditions is a costly
affair. To this end came, I as teachers no longer run
around like a student could one be it ever so humble Equipment
to laundry and other necessities. That could
pay my parents, I had to take my account, which means
that I lent it to me to pay it off from my levels gradually.
As it was said to be economical and counting every penny,
before he was spent! I confined myself to the Extremity
waived and every issue that is not was absolutely necessary.
I had not even a clock, but for which a teacher after minutes
has directed, is almost indispensable.

The factory owner, whose school has been entrusted
to me was, by contract for logistics had to care for
me. He was made very easy. One of his accountant had and free
lodging, living room with bedroom.

    He had previously both possessed alone, now I was lodged
with him; he had to share with me. In this way he lost self-reliance
and his convenience, and I was embarrassed him at every
turn, and so it can be even probably understand that I did not
particularly welcome was, and it was obvious the
idea to any way to rid of this disorder. The rest came
I am quite good with him. I was able Anything else and treated him
as I saw that he wished that, as the real master of
the lodging. The committed him to the opposite experience.
The opportunity for this place very soon. He had from his
parents a new Get pocket. His old, he no longer needed to
go, not used on a nail on the wall. She had a value exceeding
twenty dollars. He she offered me to buy, because I had not,
I leaned but it will, because when I once bought a clock, so should
there be a new, better one.

    Of course this was still far afield, because I
pay off my debt before had. As he himself made me the proposal,
its old clock, when I go to school, to me stuck, because I
was still committed to punctuality. I agreed and was
grateful for that. In the first time I hung
the Clock when I come home from school back, returned
immediately to the nail. Later was omitted the times,
I kept them for hours in the Pocket, for such a striking
emphasis that they do not belonged to me was, I do
not conscientious, but ridiculous before. Finally, I
took it even to outputs and hung with them until the evening,
after my return, on the spot. A really friendly or even
warm deal did not happen between us. He forced to tolerate
me and let me sometimes deliberately noted that his
division of his apartment may not be comfortable.

    

Then came Christmas. I told him that I spend the holidays
with their parents would, and said goodbye to him, because
after the end of the school immediately wanted to leave without
first in the apartment back return. When the last
lesson was over, went I Ernsttal after only one train an hour,
so even not far away. to leave the Clock, because I had
my holiday joy not thought of. As I noted, that she was
in my pocket, I was very indifferent. I was so impure
me not the slightest Conscious intention. This evening
with the parents was a so happy. I had the Schuelerzeit behind
me, and I possessed an office, I got content. The beginning
of the Ascent was there. Tomorrow was Christmas Eve. We
began today to prepare the Christmas mess. And I spoke about
my future, about my ideals, which for me were all in
the brightest Christmas splendor. The father says. The
mother was stillgluecklich. Grandma's old, faithful
eyes sparkled. When we had finally gone to bed, I lay
for a long time awake in bed and held accountable to me. My
internal confusion was the first time I really aware.
I could see the abyss yawning behind me, before but me no more,
because my path appeared to be difficult and muehevoll, but
completely free: Writer be, do great things, but
learn before Big! All internal fault, which the consequences
of my wrong Education, were cast out by degrees, so that space
for new, better, right, Noble will! In this Thought
I fell asleep, and when I woke up early, was The morning
is almost over, and I had to the Hohenstein Christian market to
some small Shopping for the mess to make for the sisters.
There I met a policeman, who asked me if I May be the teacher.
When I said yes, he asked me to come with him to the town hall,
the Police, where a survey was for me. I went with them,
completely clueless. I was initially led into the living
room, not in the office. Sat there a woman sewing. Whose
wife, I ask about it, allowed to mention. She was a good
friend of my Mother, a school friend of hers, and looked
at me with anxious eyes. The policeman ordered me, me sit
down, and went out for a short time, his to make a report.

    The used the woman, I hastily to ask:

"You are arrested! You know that?"

"No," I replied, deadly terror. "Why?"

"They should your Mietkameraden his watch stealing! If you
would find in you get prison and be a teacher sold! "

I flickered my eyes. I had the feeling as I am someone with a
club on the head beaten. I thought of yesterday evening,
my Thoughts before sleep, and now all of a sudden dismissal
and prison!

"But that has not even stolen, but only borrowed, "I stammered,
as I pulled her out of his pocket.

"It is not believed you! Way with it! Type They do it secretly
again, but do not let them now See! Quick, quick!
"

My consternation was indescribable. A single clear, calm
thought I would have saved, but he remained from. I needed
the Clock simply be presented and only to tell the truth,
so all was well, but I was in shock with fever and acted
like a fever. The Clock disappeared, not back into the pocket,
but approaching, where she was not one, and no sooner
was this done, the policeman came back to me to pick up.
I do it with what happened next, so short as possible! I made
the madness, possession the Clock to deny, but it was when
you looking after her, found. Sun so I destroyed the Lie,
rather than that she saved me, she always does; I was
a - - - thief! I have been to Chemnitz made before the
investigating judge, brought the Christmas holidays
with their parents instead of lock and Ties to and was
sentenced to six weeks imprisonment. Whether and how
I defended myself, if I to appeal, to appeal to any
appeal, a clemency to a lawyer my Took refuge, I do not
know to say. Those days have vanished from my memory, completely
vanished. I want to major in psychology Reasons like everything
as open and detailed as possible tell, but this can not,
unfortunately, because all this because very strange,
emotional states, about which I have to report in
the next chapter, in my Memory is spread. I only know
that I I had completely lost and that I then in the care
of parents and especially the Grandmother found again.

    When I had recovered and then laboriously was strong enough on my
feet, I'm looking Altchemnitz went to my damaged memorize-back refresh.

    It was in reference to the localities in vain,
I saw nothing, neither the factory, nor my former apartment, nor
any agency, where I had been quite sure.

    But suddenly He stood before me, my apartment mate,
the accountant. He met me on the street and held
the Step in when we reached us. I recognized
immediately, he ate me, although he assured that I am very looks
different than before, so very ill.

    

In a short time he again drew aside the skin which hung across the entrance, and a squaw advanced,
evidently in deep terror, bearing some raw meat. Ned received it graciously, and then said to Tom:

"Now we will light a fire, and astonish them again."

So saying, the boys went outside, picked up a dry stick or two, and motioned to the Indians
who were gathered round that they needed more. The whole population at once scattered through
the grove, and soon a huge pile of dead wood was collected.

The boys now made a little heap of dried leaves, placed a few grains of powder in a hollow
at the top and, the flint and steel being put into requisition, the flame soon leaped up, amid
a cry of astonishment and awe from the women and children. Wood was now laid on, and soon a
great fire was blazing. The men gathered round and sat down, and the women and children gradually
approached, and took their places behind them.

The evening was cold and, as the natives felt the grateful heat, fresh exclamations of pleasure
broke from them; and gradually a complete babel of tongues broke out. Then the noise was hushed,
and a silence of expectation and attention reigned, as the lads cut off slices of the meat
and, spitting them on pieces of green wood, held them over the fire. The fire, the plane Gassibone's Land, Africa, forgotten, the ear
hears only temporarily human sounds, sounds that immediately with the thought of the distant
Home links. A black before my eyes blinding fire flitting shadows finished - it was the leader of
our young - I will return the present. It was a peaceful evening, it was followed by a peaceful
night, a contrast to the last, a good rest, like a Strengthening for what awaited us clueless
the next day.

The oxen which were grazing a little off, came from even running up and pitched in the car nearby,
and our blankets in the fragrant grass tossing, embedded soft and überwoben of the overhanging delicate
stems, panicles and flowers, sometimes in a well-deserved Slumber fell. Time we started next morning
on his way. After words of the leader I estimated the distance to the city of Batlapinenkönigs
to 35 miles, what us somewhat alarmed, was that the leader of the Wassernoth to clear border
area admitted. We had to make do during the day so that water found for the midday meal to have
a refreshing drink remained an unattainable desire.

Often when we moved north towards pursuing more quickly and had the good of our guides designated
for months devoid of rain have reached line, because the further we went, more yellow and dry,
the grass. Despite the advanced spring We initially only slightly, still see no new aufgesprossenen
culms, rarely saw the eye first, but in consequence of the drought
already half dried leaf of plant Amarillys.

We moved gradually uphill to a small plateau level, the higher we got, the less were the bushes,
the more arid the whole vegetation. Northwest rose from a rather strong wind that blew through
the high grass rustling stalks that this as a tilth bent and lifted, and we were very welcome,
for it relieved the intense heat and cooled our burning lip. The draft animals that had consumed
30 hours prior to the last times came forward very slowly, we could not drive in such heat, as
It went uphill, and for two hours we followed a footpath and our guide said that we, on the
highest point of the plateau reached, we would have something turn right (west at North) would
come and there on tram tracks, as the Morena (king) at times that distance traveled with wagons
leave - to timber to bring the diamond fields. If we then without keep up in the night followed the trail
to the left, we were referred to the natives huts .

Come This was our semi-parched a bleak prospect.

During a brief rest on the slope of the high plateau we were on a dark, long time as it passes directly
to the attention of the plateau floating cloud that from my Servant, hired by the leader, as well
as all of us as a huge swarm of locusts was considered. When you reach the edge of the plateau,
I was startled suddenly from the Companions ejected from the car scream my dreams .-- A sight of
me and my friends elicited a cry of terror, offered to us .-- The lies ahead, with a high, dry
Grass and scrub-covered plain, we should run through, was a sea of ​​flames. The fire crossed
our path direction and was 5-6 miles away, the gray cloud that an hour before we saw were the
rising, driven by east-southeast, dense Smoke masses. The first to recover, was the dark leader,
which points to the barely 20 steps remote ruts made aware that after his description right
through the Fire resulted. We were approached to within 600 paces of the fire, the right to a so
to speak, parallel with the same current level course, presented the country was in this direction
out precisely, to the left the platform lowered to the right flank in a fire about 300 Steps
wide shell, at the end of the fire just started nibbling and this depression was in the high plateau
and was left by a north rocky and steep, somewhat bushy, about 40 foot high hill limited, which
also provided the northern plateau of the waste-collection, we had just achieved. What to do!
Quick, immediate action was necessary. We had the fire escape, and our terrible Wassernoth
considering, deßungeachtet to go forward to seek the water. The oxen were too tired to an immediate
Retreat to the south or east to take the Vaal River, to the east, it was also because of the fast forward-border
fire is not possible, the less, because the oxen being a race through the grass probably a mile,
but could hardly stand on 10 or 15 miles, and such would have been followed to the east.

There was nothing to come forward as, yes, forward, but how to avoid
the fire; be spared from the raging elements?

The grass burning down around us and then the fire was impossible to expect because we along with
several thousand cartridges at 300 pounds of gunpowder Cart was impossible, because the cars
heated canvas and wood by the scorching heat of the sun, hardly the creation of the hand and allowed
the burning of the branches by the wind carried away and glowing sheets could easily fire can
be set and we probably alcohol and Spirits, however, led no water with us. My eyes stayed on
the hill rush to the left, It would be possible to get by down there in the gorge - the fire
seemed far about 300 Steps away from the hill, but it approached us like the hill, though the
latter, because of something out of the wind direction was less quickly. Yes, if we only by car
already arrived at the hill in the still-free intermediate space would be, and so the fire that about
100 paces wide, could have been bypassed.

Behind the sea of ​​fire spread a mile wide, black area, the burned
area, made about which flared up every now and then flames, the remains
of a burning bush.

My view was communicated to the Fellowship of unanimous applause. The dark servants understand
it "a dark bass sol" and the look in his dark eyes showed that he would do his best to guide
the oxen in the specified direction and to keep in it.

Only now, after I jumped on my horse, I had my eye on the wandering
track that we go through, no, - had to fly through.

I could get a Exclamation, not included because the step about 1000 target distance (up the
hill) was a moderate in the lower part a bit steep, overgrown with low bushes and grass, and boulders
strewn slope, as when a wheel on to the rapid driving one of the brown stones would shatter
- but I had no time to think, were my companions taken their posts, Boly swung the whip and gave the
usual "at Fat" the signal for speedy escape - the fire, contrary to escape the fire.

Through the shouts, blows with a whip and branches, but also by the gruesome sight Feuerwoge
of the right hand driven, we came closer with every step, hunted
the bulls with its load, as with an empty cart then.

I often imagined that the car already on the side lying down, and sometimes a wheel came up
on one of the boulders, while the two Front wheels in the next few moments against the transportation
of rock so hard that the deer Stan Gent were crushed by the impact. The heat was unbearable,
as we have always had wind against us, the crackling of dry grass and bushes, of which, however,
the Most were green, filled with dense smoke and burning grass stems, twigs, leaves etc. air
impregnated with a sinnebetäubenden noise, the horse, which I on this trip rode, was not a timid
animal, but the sight made her his right hand it wild and unruly, bemeistern that I could not
wait.

But we continue to rest. Several times my riding animal stumbled and fell on rock against bush,
for I had to keep an eye on the car screen to any, that is where
the fire pieces be overcome quickly and also had to pit the "leader"
and Boly the "arm" the path to be Indicate the direction to the larger
blocks in front of us, I could see from the horses, avoid.

The shouting and driving the oxen which dense foam flakes abgeiferten, running over hill and
dale, through the burning heat of the day and the glow of the nearby flame, My companions had
worn out in the highest degree, and when we finally reached the valley, we had to draw breath for
a few minutes, everyone was more or less in the face and wounded on his hands, had stumbled and
fallen many times.

Once in the valley, we found that the fire is already at 100 steps of the hill approaching it,
while 200 steps to go further away from it about 100 yards from her, started, it was here
inhibited by a dry ravine rain while to us a very shallow body of
them, had durchgezüngelt which we set without difficulty.

My horse trembled that it could hardly get on their feet and the oxen "blew" (breathed) difficulty
with their heads down to earth and yet we had to solve even the most difficult task we had only 30
steps away from the fire, cover about 100 steps away from the fire, before we could turn to
the left. The track was so short that we back down had threatened to bring us ruin as those that
we receive from the rocky heights had stormed down. A distant between me and the fire only 15
steps from the car, through a burning branch into flames compound, dry Vaalbusch we were the second
Watchword of this hunt.

"Hello, it's" the oxen's yoke lay down in, but after barely five steps, they urge from the dense
smoke, stunned, after the rocky hills, where they upset the car irrevocably had. At this critical
moment is the next to them by my side running Comrade on the other side of the hill, where he,
the other fellow and leader of the dark succeed by hitting and screaming
again herabzudrängen the animals on the flat surface.

Strike to cry, otherwise we are lost and flying in the air! And now it went through the dense
smoke, dense herabnieselnde, whirled by the wind ashes by burning Blades of grass, bark pieces,
glowing and burning branches - as if we were up to the feeling of Self-preservation has become
meaningless - in the middle of the ruin next to the clients, who only still 80, 70, yes only
50 steps away to reach us salvation-promising position. The Hize was so terrible that I believed
to see flare up at any moment the car screen.

Only 20 steps - whether it can withstand only draft animals, they gasp and stagger under the
yoke - At last, Thank God, here we are, to our left, a free grass field to our right about
10 Feet deep and 12 feet wide gorge and beyond the black and charred grass. I jump from the
saddle, take it off quickly and direct my steps to the Companions
who's in Grass were thrown.

They could hardly produce a word. Their faces are blood red, hands, gnarled branches of the case and
the frequent bloody scratched and bruised, the Eyes are threatening to jump from their sockets.
Pit's clothes, with the front of the first ox overcome obstacles (bushes, etc.), even had his shirt
was torn to shreds by the Back and blood dripping from the breast of long, but fortunately
not deep lacerations.

Drawing Next, we tried, we moving up an attachment that cuts through to the fire Gassibone
city's leading car tracks to get back to what we managed well, though we are tired of every
200 animals, half step had to stop.

We followed the wagon tracks in a northerly direction over a flat country, which the poor bullocks
substantial improvement bot. The evening had now occurred. A terrible thirst tortured us,
we took the Vinegar our refuge and cross-linked to the lips. An exclamation pits, the progressed
tore all of us from the dull brooding. "Bass, kick (see) since so sin (are) ye Hartebeest det?"
We all leaned forward, that's right, the boy has a good eye. Across our direction, some 300 yards
ahead of us trappten, three hartebeest antelope past us. But we were too worn out, too tired
to give them more than to devote our attention.

In Africa, I have observed three hartebeest antelope species, the common hartebeest, the of the
colony up to the Zambesi, but more often hochbebuschten in the southern
and middle found lots South Africa is also the Sesephi or Zulu Hartebeest,
which the same Terrain inhabited, but is also found north of the Zambezi,
where I and the third Art were there, which, however, the first is
closer than the second species used by the the latter further towards
the Bontebok.

In consequence of his hammer-shaped head, and also its angularly curved horns is the real ugliness
of the hartebeest antelope species. On the Sesephi I will come back to, I want the actual Hartebeest
in the following devote a few words. I found it most often between the Vaal and the Soa-Salt
Lake, but I heard that even in the east and northeast of the Transvaal colony, and in the northern
part the Cape Colony is found frequently. This animal is exterminated more than other types
of antelope and this is probably because it is less volatile and more boldly than others. It lives
in small herds and we find it often in the inhabited areas of the striped Gnu. That in the
northern part of central South Africa less than in the south, has probably The reason is that
it's the Bamanaquato whether his coat preferred other Wilde is, for the reason that because
the eastern Bamanaquato Carosse to its small, its Nationalmäntelchen chose the coat of this
animal.

In the bushy, less wooded areas it chases on horseback, pursued shows the animal is a lumbering
run, the most high in its front body and its withers Reason. I believe that this species (Antilopa
Caama), although the commonest of the three mentioned, but is a rarity in European zoological
gardens and that the transzambesische Art does not exist in them is. In the woods as the land
of the middle Bechuanas Look out for the them through trees and bushes
covered to approach, seek in such places the animals themselves may
reside at the edge of a clearing or in the less bushy lots keep a
better Observations to, while in the treeless areas only high and
group games as bushy and generally inhabit the plains.

By white hunters they are usually hunted only in addition to other wild, elephants, ostriches,
etc., and killed.

The dreadful day was over, our leaders had trouble with the filled by the fire ashes and to follow ruts
and become unrecognizable to us in the true direction of the small to bring branch of the natives.
Not only the lips were hot, the whole mouth seemed to us like charred and the nagging drought
was up in the throat to feel inside. We did not talk any more and looked as quiet as possible to bear
his suffering. We had on the cool night hoped, but this was exceptionally warm and even the
wind had stopped us to give something refreshing. At last we heard dogs barking and soon the
monotonous Song of the dark girl, a heavenly voice for our depressed
spirits.

Never again more later on my walks I have this monotone, this simple, ever- repetitive, with accompanying
documentation Holzkastagnetten the colored girl with such delight, greeted with such an echo in
my heart, as on that evening. The thirst is but one of the most horrible feelings that mess
around depress human nature can.

At last we see on the slope to our left and slightly ahead of us some bright red bodies which indicated
an equal amount of fire, I dropped the car with the same resolve had my companions and the leader
of a match done and we all rushed to the human Flats to. The dog came flying thither now, during
the singing stopped and before us a dark figure appeared, a resident of the house, not a little
surprised at this time and to see pass by this place a car. The way I saw the people before me,
I rushed up to him, grabbed him by the arms and shouted in his hoarse voice with my »Meci,
Meci" to. The so Accrued uttered a cry, well the warning cry, because
our Leaders could, from a laughing fit detected thereat are not even
to speak.

In a large Ox horn, the man took some time after a foul-smelling liquid, which he described as his
entire supply of water and called for whose release he demanded half a crown. Neither the quantity
nor the quality of this liquid, however, were sufficient to break the violent To quench thirst. We
finally managed to make our wishes to the man to understand and in a short time later he gave
two women and several large pots filled with milk the Contents of us was devoured greedily. Now
it was also the hunger, and soon blazed a big fire at which roasted a leg of mutton.

The prairie fire was of course the main conversation, in the south was still a high redness the
sky, a proof that the fire step further. These fires are sometimes caused by the carelessness
debt, but in those areas, where shrubs and trees are rare, by farmers or by Natives in the late
winter and set fire to it in especially dry years, how the people say, to promote the growth of
grass. The same did before the ostrich hunters in the interior, to the ostriches who visit
the green of grass spring up with desire, in such places to . Lure These fires are very often
in the lower by, barely 18 inches high bushes (Scap noted [sheep] bushes) covered plains of the
colony and the Free State, about three miles came close, we see on dark nights one or more straight,
longer or shorter "hot strip" slow crawl over the earth.

The next morning we set off half an hour later found ourselves in the already one-way extended
wheel tracks, which we in March after the departure of Gassibone against the Vaal River were followed.
Here, we adopted our friendly guides and drove down one of the ravines down after Gassibone's residence.
The sides (ie, slopes) crossed the wide, only after the city from its mouth to narrow gorge
showed a drop in the terraced rock layers, in spite of the lush grass growth clearly emerged,
and the flat parts of these terraces were among the natural mimosa trees been planted and offered
such a, not on our hillsides planted cherry orchards dissimilar appearance.

Around noon we drove to Gassibone one's town, walked through it, and frequently in Some trees,
such as in the middle of the valley-shaped vessel, directly on a rainy gorge. The bottom of the
whole boiler was a lush lawn that because in the depth and horizontal the top of a ravine lying
sources moistened to received in this state. Pit operation, followed by E. and F., the oxen to the
sources, but they were of the same rearranges more than 20 women and had to wait about 1 ½ hours
before they came to the series.

It is amazing worth, in those eastern mingled with so little Bamairen Batlapinen to find energy.
The day must be in the dry season the farmers for hours to their
water needs .

Wait If the sources, cleansing and below it the wet, marshy ground excavate and construct a
dam would, could not be obtained in this way alone cistern sufficient drinking water for the population
of Gassibone's Residenz-kraal, but also win in the ponds built the requisite drinking water
for a large number of domestic animals .-- In the meantime Gassibone itself was accompanied by
his brother and some men arrived, most in ordinary gray cotton dresses wrapped, some still
hanging on despite the heat CAROSSE investigate, what we sought in
his town.

I asked him to give me a goat for sale, since I'm on the between that city and that's the hard-Mankuruan
River Natives often committed not stretch too much thought to be found wild.

It would have diminished prestige of His Royal Highness, when he immediately agreed would have.
It would not - he later said - only a few goats there, then he sought a glass of brandy, sat
on our Wasserfäßchen and began selling the goat with his brother and around in the grass, squatting, and in some
trees leaning against the valve wake up to Ireland's in detail. They said the Setschuana, I did not,
however, heard numerous times and the same word, which I communicated later Pit and me about
this as Kalpater (goat) was interpreted. At last one of the men came up to me and said that by He pointed
to the chief (king) that Morena Botlazitse Gassibone me a buck for a "half pund left, "wished
an offer, which I accepted immediately.

His glory still I deigned to honor a long conversation, after it ended, we continued our journey.

When
we reached through one of the city opposite the gorge height, had dark Clouds has gone up, which indicated
a storm and the so much desired rain. We held Council of war, and since Pit said that the
storm were marching on us, we spanned barely three miles from the city of.

Pit had judged correctly, the wool had piled into dense masses, which moved closer and closer and
before an hour had passed, was a capable of plunging bath flowed down to us. What we had the
day before for such a blessing offered!
 The strange appearance that they saw was a boon, given to the Indian people
by two great white beings, who were in his camp; and that, by its aid, there would be no more cold.

Three times he shouted out these words, and then retired to the fire and sat down. And
that the growth of the female genius in those areas, which made him truly free were, keeps pace
with that of men, prove the great female poet name which in the past almost fifty years since this
area for the women by allowing for Studies was made viable, appeared to prove the names of brilliant actresses
who from those of male colleagues are not overshadowed, though you also for the profession the
woman was incompetent for playing women roles of men and she had only been almost three centuries
exercises, during which time it has achieved its highest peak, has climbed fully valid and
equivalent to the man.

During the Renaissance, it is these bonds have not given, female education efforts have been seen on
the contrary like, and the woman would have (after Weininger) then the opportunity had, "to the
undisturbed development of their spiritual development opportunities." Which it has because
even unfolds for aesthetic purposes and objectives, because only those were given it free and were
of course only for the women of the beneficiary, make circles in question, where is because
a female flower "aestheticism," developed at the then real hymns were sung: but that the women of
the Renaissance - in their entirety, not as Ausnahmschance - Opens up social services and thus the only
serious suggestion was given to them would be is not known, but despite sitting Renaissance
and humanism in this set the women's quarters and spun.

The main element of all social phenomena, namely, the economic-material-social Moment exists
for Weininger not, will either not mentioned or flatly denied. He even dared to because even to set
up the outrageous claim that the context of economic Relations with the woman question was a lot
looser than he is usually portrayed! Only when the women of the proletariat, the crowd in the
factory or construction work, He recognizes this relationship! The battle for the living material
have with the struggle a spiritual purpose in life ("if there was such a"!) to do nothing and
let keen to part with it!

Yes, should be for the women who seek a livelihood and material need to bear all Ziegelschupfen
crowd and only Ziegelschupfen? Should not they have a right of a higher skilled and better
paid jobs, just those who perhaps Contents reflect their spiritual life, to achieve a tangible possibility
of existence? Miss out men in academic careers (or others that require a certain amount of education)
an income from these jobs (which they must still pay full attention to in order to them to do something),
they live and all, of their pensions and they settle with the "spiritual content of life" which
give them these jobs maybe?

That the women are fed up at last, to prostitute themselves either or enslave (or you only get
to Ziegelschupfen "free access") that she finally their intellectual abilities want to know harnessed
and evaluated, is the basis of that "movement" that for Weininger a "nonsense". And that this struggle
for bread with the struggle for existence Content last hand could go together, is the principal
goal of emancipation. And this goal can not come the "single individual" fight for themselves,
like Weininger calls it, the mass movement of women as a "large, wild army will" win not the "true" liberation
could. There are no "real" liberation without economic liberation! And then in the struggle
would be the "single individual alone is lost," helpless, - unarmed and unarmed would it from the
compact mass of opponents - including a "large, wild army" - in the land come! In order to implement
new social trends, prepared by the Trust on all lines to encounter, it requires the concentration
of a single will, - the "absurdity" of the Organization.

When making "M" on the psychology of "W" revelations "on the point
is, sometimes he likes be affected by a kind of remorse to quiet doubts
about the correctness of the votes terse sentences.

Where and why "M" will ever be capable of the most secret psychological reveal "events in the woman,"
it Weininger has his answers.

The right to give him first place, namely the woman herself, either
because they are wrong by informative or nothing to say to know, for
instance, have no women their feelings and brought feelings during
the pregnancy to term, they would certainly not shame prevented, he
continues, because nothing would be a pregnant woman also considered
as the shame of their condition.

How shameless it would be part of the men expected this shame, seems it but have no idea!

That would have brought in earlier, our times is a true assault against a woman who would have
dared, without literary pseudonym confessions about the state of her pregnancy to give, he completely
ignored, nor that in the short period, as at all realistic Representations of the life processes,
as they take place devoid of all false illusions really in the literature
have given room, the women - often with little talent, but often even
with an almost elemental talent and truly fearless courage - is involved
have that precisely on this subject on the part of doctors, poets,
social reformers National and economists already have a small literature,
he seems not to know.

is also firmly grounded and the other answer
to the question of where the possibility Such revelations should come
to the man who is given: from what the men themselves "To"

W!

Well, just about the phenomenon of pregnancy is expected from this "W" (in "M") hardly Reliable can
testify!

And services provided under this "qualification" is now stated in the deed ".

Above all, the "psychological difference between M and W" after lengthy
clashes about their physiological "differences" - in short, without
evidence, but with a Abundance of false allegations - that explains
W'm completely in the sexual life, "in the Sphere of copulation ",
while M was still a lot of other things of interest" for Fighting
and playing, socializing and feasting, discussion, science, business
and politics, Religion and art.

"

Like this!

Only "M" is for these things of interest? And if I as a woman (with thousands of other women)
on this bold claim that alone should be the bearer of the argument,
W is totally Sexuality and nothing else - if so I would now - and
informative, and prove that I also filled out "and taken'm all these
things, precisely from these things, of fighting and playing, of conviviality
and merriment, - yes! - Talk and Science, of business and politics,
religion and art - yes! - And not one of these interests could separate
from my life, - what then?

Then - even then not the thesis is false and shallow and hollow - but I and the thousands from
other women who were coming with me, just are not "real" women, but only to two-thirds or even
only half of women! - Has a comfortable and Plate Shield hardly anyone ever forged! - That
one "of a fastness, which here means Cultural strangeness and savagery that is rare by the day
and their complete Only just disappear from the conquest of greater
educational opportunities depends - do not go out allowed to be a
"law" to construct from it for the million copies that this "authenticity"
already arisen, are said to have validity - that is flat on the palm
of your hand, that it's almost a shame, explicate it to you only.

In general is Weininger's polemic in the Moment when it emerges from the confines of pure speculation
in the circle of experience, the facts of the visibly perceptible surprisingly flat. So it's
immediately after the so firmly substantiated allegation, W to go entirely into the sexual
sphere - in development Let he who would believe in it, only to come out there, how they (the
women, elsewhere the Jews) today. So? Only that's what counts, as they are today? Not too sure as
they were and how they are transparent? - In frenzied rotation to move the stars, Glowing frozen,
rigid liquid is evaporated liquid, eons towering mountains, and wash
them away again, seas are running on land and sea to countries, thousands
of forms life before the primitive cell triumphed in a complicated
variety, everything turns is restless, everything is growing, shrinks,
returns again, - never standing still and end, - "Everything flows"
- and in the book of a scholar of the twentieth.

Century conversion by Development - doubts!

Weininger is now leaving entirely the domain of theory and sets out on the floor of the Facts.
Statement following the statement - and what there briefly and hurriedly, in rapid succession
it is claimed, without being supported by the slightest real evidence, appears to be a only
to confusion, - a maze in which the man who designed it, not even rightly refers. With such a dedicated
determination as fixed ideas are as unquestionable Facts held up - that they formally dismiss the
controversy as their monstrous perversion already evident by its citation:

»W is concerned with sexual matters except for the man she loves, or to the Man's sake, of which
she wants to be loved. "Lie! More can be reduced to such a claim not respond. "An interest in
these things in their complete lack of." But time lie Schlechtweg just lie!

If a "real" woman, for example, learn Latin, they do so only about her son in it to ignore!
- Need the - silliness (you can call it the best will not help) this claim and its use as a factor
for evidence of female inferiority - A debate?

That W 'is nothing but sexuality "- M" something about it "- that are particularly evident in
the way that M and W do their entry into the period of sexual maturity. M feel the time of puberty
a crisis, and disturbing, which is also motivated by - is here a physiological phenomenon
called - "about the will has no power."

But the woman find themselves easily into puberty. - So? Is that the author is entirely unknown
how eminently a crisis, worrying, exciting and dangerous, especially in women, this period is announced,
- As indeed it is accompanied by a phenomenon - "about the will has no power"? Unknown, too,
that hysterical ravings, usually blind devotion and horrified Away from all conscious sexuality
(with the secret shows, such as a foreign, hostile Power is suspected) to have substrates, shoot up,
especially in this time that a psychic Devotion to the driving force of the whole being is - as
in Ibsen Kaja Foslie and Hedwig of the "Wild Duck", a captain in
Ottegebe the "poor Henry," embodied?

"Especially significant," therefore prove allegations of such nature would be one thing: that
all that is what and as always it is brought, and all that is not,
is constructed to preconceived Fictions to support.

A blind whiz past on a truly causal, in economic and social conditions, in which the root causes
of so many phenomena, is quite striking and you can culminates in
a confusing mix of natural systems with mere time appearances of purely
social Nature.

Why - is so popular - boys do not think of marrying, while even the smallest Girls seem to have
been eager "? Very simple: because the girls of an education plan one other independent existence
as the marriage could not consider it were drilled. Therefore, they are already thinking about
getting married at the doll, just as boys, which to the sword as a toy in the hand is, usually
a military career in alluring colors to color, but is not sure which proved that they their "investment"
to People are butchers and later in life enthusiastic supporters of militarism "remain" be.

Only true blindness to all social relationships could also incredibly naive question , Why make
the wedding night in women play a much greater role than in men the first sexual act Dio mio!
It is a proof of the absolute, everything else negative his sexuality by "W" that the wedding night
the woman - her deflowering by the only ones which it is expected to belong with which their
whole destiny connects closely - that this night, brings a stirring
physical and mental experience, having already the previous day you
a whole new social position, a revolution of their economic Existence,
called - of women means more than the man the case in the arms of
the first Girl, which connects with him an hour later, no matter how
volatile relationship more!

And nevertheless is also the experience of men more sensitive than disturbing, and exciting and
sustainable impact of perceived event, - just because physiological changes each Body shake and
mentally.

Nonsense to nonsense is presented with a deep sense only in women's sexuality is "diffuse" spread over
the whole body, every touch excites at which point they are sexually. Is not that just the opposite
in the male of the case - and the possibility of sexually aroused to be 'at' M nothing less localized
as "strictly?"

And the woman through and through sexuality, know it, of course, absolutely no other terms; yes
it can cover absolutely no idea aware he lacked the awareness that it could only vague ideas,
"think in henids" - hence it is itself a "intellegibles "I deny, - a soul! "Could" Therefore
there will never a female genius, - "For" - how could a soulless beings have genius?

Certainly, a hinged end, - rattling logic, a logic with broken joints and confused torn limbs!

"That," wife lives less aware than "the" man! Yes, perhaps - under certain conditions. In fully protected
Bourgeoiskreisen perhaps, where the activities of women exclusively limited to their domestic
environment, while the man by his profession in contact with the Life is, and therefore - perhaps
- a 'conscious' existence as they lead. But what about For example, the workers, where the man
did not trade, industry, science or art, but grueling, heavy Taglöhnerarbeit operates? Is he also
a "conscious" life as "the Woman, "or life they not both (if not a fresh breeze of political opinion
reached them) is a dull, blunt, insightful and painfully loose rich joy of existence? The baker,
for instance, who, as has recently elicited by a Enquête, in some cases from 12 noon to evening
8 clock clock is at Teigtrog, then from 12 bis 8 clock the most necessary Opportunity as sleep
and by 8 clock goes back to the bakery, he lives about a "conscious"
existence as "the" woman?

All these details, but show clearly that it is all a question of just the fresh breeze of a moderate
activity, a profession that does not eat the whole person, the time
he leaves for self-determination and the contact with the world and
it humanely while diet to help win the people to give them a soul.

Neither in the blocked Home, still in the ghetto, still Teigtrog can be "soul buy," can be Intellegiblität
. Develop

Based on the false premise of the whole theoretical dispute on the woman question refer to it,
"who is spiritually inclined later, the men or the women," a condition
all the more naive and ridiculous, as it so it does not go down to
the value of a to determine the genus and one posed by such a pathetic
point of evaluation petty position would reveal Weininger get to the
problem of talent and genius at all.

This section of his book seems to me the other chapters, such as a wait to dominate, but also unexpected,
vehement jumps in the most absurd conclusions the most thoughtfully
conflicts distort and tear and the impression of wild somersaults
Causing interrupt a quiet, beautiful Convert suddenly.

Shiny and plastic, of unambiguous concision is the style, a wonderful clarity prevails as long as the
obsession not mitspricht. Apart from a few embarrassing failures of banality, a ansetzende interesting
line of thought sometimes rude to interrupt, - such as the not very original message, that "very
large" men are not the young foxes on the Scale "same", yet the young girl who is happy about the
new toilet only because her friends are angry about it, - because there are subtle and sometimes
peculiar observations about the Essence of genius, until a daring somersault over the whole
observation tears.

Even the claim that the consciousness of the genius of "henid ​​stage" (the stage of the blurred,
more instinctive than intellectual ideas) is the furthest away it is very doubtful: it is the phenomenon
of hallucinatory, visionary genius and production capacity has been observed countless times, yes
it is to be regarded almost as a typical, as most important and among
the "creators" of the state of the production almost always carried
by a kind of visionary is enraptured, which is far from "most glaring
clarity and bright "with the same professionals might can operate
as a critic.

If only even from this assertion that may prove not as quite unsound, it is concluded Genius
manifest itself as a kind of higher masculinity and "why can not brilliant W be, then this is certainly
an almost childish dialectic mentioned, which is the abstract speculation removed and placed in
the light of the real reality, violence against one another in their screwed Contexts makes gratitude.
The woman on the self-related Schlußresumierung from the the whole theory results obtained shows
the courage of a sad almost incredible insolence: Women bring against
the ingenuity of no other understanding than one that is possibly
builds on the personality of a living support!

For such statements, which make up the facts on self-related and professional portion this book
is composed and which must therefore be drawn into debate illuminates a pitiful descent and also
gripping, and the yielding area leave the speculation and the hard facts and the practical implication
is entered: not yet, "so" scientifically scale and depth can be designed with internal foundation
for a building of significance and help him to his values, if the building itself is built of rotten
material with corruption within itself.

Long before the sun was at its highest a little stream ran beside them, and they saw, by the
course of its waters, that they had passed the highest part of the pass through the Cordilleras.

Three hours later they suddenly emerged, from a part where the hills approached nearer on either
side than they had done during the day's walk, and a mighty landscape opened before and below
them. The boys gave, simultaneously, a loud shout of joy; and then dropped on their knees,
in thanks to God, for far away in the distance was a dark level blue line, and they knew the
ocean was before them.

"How far off should you say it was, Ned?" Tom asked, when they had recovered a little from
their first outburst of joy.

"A long way off," Ned said. "I suppose we must be fifteen thousand feet above it, and even
in this transparent air it looks an immense distance away. I should say it must be a hundred
miles."

"That's nothing!" Tom said. "We could do it in two days, in three easily."

"Yes, supposing we had no interruption and a straight road," Ned said. "But we must not count
our chickens yet. This vast forest which we see contains tribes of natives, bitterly hostile
to the white man, maddened by the cruelties of the Spaniards, who enslave them and treat them
worse than dogs. "You
have the Preziosa and all their Gypsy three times herumzutrommeln
over the whole stage. "" Who is the Preziosa "" A
young, beautiful gypsy, the is actually a Grafenstochter.
This was used by Gypsies raped. Now she comes back and
finds their parents. You are the drummer and get naked
Buttons and a hat with white feather. That will Spectators
bring. It is made known. If the "House" is full, the
five you sir Neugroschen, but it is not full so you get
nothing. Tomorrow morning is 11 clock test. "

It is altogether obvious that I was in bliss sponge.

    Gypsy drummer! A count's daughter! Blanke Buttons!
White feather! Three times around the stage around! Five
Neugroschen! I slept in the following Very little at
night and introduced me to my drum to sample a very punctual.
They went very well. I liked all the female artists
and artists. The woman Director stroked my cheek. The director
intelligent praised my face, my courage and my Express Begriffsvermoegen.
My role is also very easily. Maybe I would do it for forty
cents, already thirty pence of that fee may be mentioned
splendid. But father was there and went to a penny down, for
he had recognized my artistic value and would not deal with it. I
had for the fifty Pennies only once occur to the great gypsy
move . Voranzumarschieren I stood at a gate, Gypsies
all behind me. Me in the opposite otherworldly backdrop was
the director of the old Vogt played Pedro Castle. If the right
hand lifted, so this was the sign for me, my march to begin immediately
and after a three-time, firm Dealing in the same
setting to disappear. That was easy so; could not be
mistaken. The bright buttons I got her just the sample.
Anflick mother had me. There were over thirty Composition,
they were not almost entirely on my vest. During the afternoon
they brought me the hat with the white feather. The advertisement
was for a Hinausgehaengt window and has done its work.
I I had fifteen minutes before each performance set.
Since I was by the headmistress beaming countenance received,
because the audience was already so filled that quickly forefront
were still some "boxes" set up with the prices Neugroschen
of ten per seat. The were quickly sold. Father, Mother
and Grandmother had Freiplaetze get. I was just on
this day most valuable of man. This finding was spread so
widely that the headmistress is felt persuaded me even before
my five Neugroschen The curtain rose for the first
time in the right pocket to plug. This heightened my safety
and my artistic enthusiasm considerably.

And now they were there, the great, sublime moments my
first Buehnendebuets. The first act played in Madrid.
Since I had nothing to do. I was sitting in the dressing
room and listened to what the Stage was discussed. Since
I was sent for. I strapped to the drum, put on his plumed hat
and went In my backdrop. Don Fernando and Donna Klara
and even some who were on the stage. In the opposite the castle
gate refused Vogt Pedro, had to give me the sign. He
looked at me with such an energetic steps are that he believed I
wanted the same and directly out onto the podium.

    So he quickly picked up the right hand to ward off the.
But I took quite naturally for the prearranged signal,
although the Gypsies still behind I had started to beat
my vertebrae and marched out, round and round the stage.
Don Fernando Donna and Clare were all in shock rigid.
"Rascal!" I shouted to the castle Vogt, when I vorueberschritt
him. He reached out from the wings, to take me and
implicate himself, but already I was past him. waved
from all the scenes to me, but stop and get in, but I insisted
that what had been identified, namely around three times
around the stage. "Rascal!" roared the castle Vogt, as
I passed him for the second time passed, and that he
did it so loud that, despite the Drum roll out and also
about the entire audience rang. Loud laughter answered
from there; but I started my third round. "Bravo, bravo!" were
heard the cheers of the audience. There came at last
Movement in the terrified Mr Director, Don Fernando
was playing. He jumped on me, took both of my arms,
so I stop and Drumstick had to rest and thundered at me:

"Boy,
are you become completely mad? So keep but on!


"Thank God!" Tom exclaimed fervently. "There, don't move, Ned. Take it quietly. It's all right
now. There, drink a little water."

He poured a few drops down Ned's throat, and the latter, whose eyes had before had a dazed
and wondering expression, suddenly sat up and strove to draw his sword.

"Gently, Ned, gently. The snake is dead, chopped up into pieces. It was a near shave, Ned."

Chapter 14: On the Pacific Coast. The was
unhealthy and grabbed continued to spread, without you
noticed it. The etched, which was like poison. So had one
from the Saturday card games light-shy company formed,
which was with the object, forbidden, even false, fraudulent card
game maintain. These persons came together to in the preparation
and use of false Maps to practice. They established
itself in one of the City located economy. They sent
Shuttle sufficient to capture victims. As we sat naechtelang
and played for high stakes. Some people came there with
full pockets and walked away empty. This activity In
the town was well known. It was said of each new coup,
which had been made. Man spoke of the captured sums, and
they rejoiced about it, rather than rejecting that these
scams. They consorted with the wrong player as
honest with People. They were provided feed. Yes, we
spent the night, People praise her cleverness, and it did
not betray the least of all that was known of them. That
thereby actually the whole town in the fraud involved with
the victim was dragged and that anyone who knew of these
scams, to strictly speaking, be regarded as stolen,
had the made sense to anyone. Who would have said then,
that this is a deplorable, general moral Depression mean,
who would have probably laughed at, or even worse. The
general was Rechtsgefuehl misled. We admired the cheaters,
how to Rinaldo's Rinaldini and Himlo Himlini's the admired
old lending library, or tapes that you swallowed, because
it was the only one who in the two Town was. I have never
heard that the Mayor, pastor or otherwise empowered to
do so Official of one of these cheaters are left to themselves
to to warn him, and evil of the examples that the whole
community has been given to discharge. One suffered
it. They walked silently across it. The youth but that all
looked and listened to, had get the impression that
this cheating admirable and very rewarding actions were, and
such an impression is never blurred again. I was once told
by a lawyer, I was in a swamp been born. Whether this gentleman
has probably been right or not?

Two strange plants in this marsh were the two names "Batzendorf"
and the "Luegenschmiede. The former leads to the
familiar, old Sueddeutsche and called Swiss coins, gobs
back. Batzendorf was a fictitious village community,
of any Ernsttal residents could join. It was a joke, but
a joke, who came frequently to degenerate. Batzendorf
had its own parish council, its own Pastor, his own local government,
all but taken from rain to end his side.

    The Ernsttal all small houses, which the old Gemuesehaendlerin
Dore Wendelbrueck became the Batzendorf City Hall collected.
One morning there was a tower on the one built of planks and
cigar box and had set the old Dore on the roof without
to ask. But she was very proud of it. The hostess the
master's house was the village watchman night. She had
to Hours and Announcements tutes. Every authority and every
Charge was present, deep down to the potato Waechter
and peppers, also all in the comic drawn. Was the Saturday
meeting. Since the community came together and it was the
wildest Things concocted then executed really are:
baptisms fuenfzigjaehriger babies, marriage two widows together,
a syringe sample without Water, a municipal election goose,
public scrutiny a new tapeworm and similar great,
often even very great things. The Lord magistrate Layritz
was old and suffered this The Pastor was older and thought
the best of everything. He always said, "Just do not exaggerate,
not only overboard!" He thought he had fulfilled his
duties. The Lord Kantor shook his head. He was too modest
to publicly come forward with a censure. But in private
he had the courage my father warn: "Do not make with,
neighbor, make She's not with you! It is not good for
you and not good for the Charles. What you doing there
is anything further nothing but satire, irony, mockery and
Mockery of things in their holiness no one to stir!
And especially children should never be something see still
get to hear! "

He had very, very right. This "Batzendorf" where you
could only pay with chunk of money, has a number of
years and some were silent, secret, but had all the evil effect.
Since relaxed , "the band of reverent awe." Since
there were weekly something new. We children attended the absurdities
of adults with huge interest and jeered and satirized,
but without us being aware be. This went on until
a new, tighter Train in the local administration and
the church leadership came and Batzendorf on himself perished.
But benefits it had brought no one. It was a stagnation,
in which not only the elderly has increased are,
but we boys were led into it with and have very much in
it from our childishness have to be stuck. The untalented,
the less harm; in the gifted but it continues to act and takes in
his Interior dimensions that later, when she revealed connect, are
no longer contain.

    

The "Luegenschmiede" was something more recent. By speaking
of her, I call not on purpose Name. I want what I say, only
for the cause itself, directed not against people. There
were Ernsttal some younger people who are extremely
satirically skilled. To be very respectable, lovable
People they had in other, larger ratios make this gift
through their luck can, so but they stayed down in the
small conditions hung and could therefore only petty
and Ordinary, often making even very trivial. It was really
bad about it!

One of them, perhaps the most enterprising and Funny, it
brought to the house owner and had the Boldness in
this Ernsttal, where so much sense and Funds for delicacies
were available, Deli to build, but of course with restaurant,
because without them there would have been quite impossible.
This Restoration had initially no particular name; but not for long,
so she was given one, and although very significant.

    They were called the Luegenschmiede and its owner,
the landlord, the Luegenschmied. Why? Both the landlord
and his Stammgaesten sat all the mischievous. Someone else
was there more often operate without having something
like this said. But suddenly it broke out about him, suddenly,
quite unexpectedly and with a safety, not to was irresistible.
He was "made", as one called. He had his weakest side, and
his strongest nail discovered and go on this any
well-thought-out lie to believe that he had, he liked it
or not. The lie he disgraced , he might still notoriously
so much against it and liked it ten times and hundred times
wiser than all those who had decided to take him to the trap.

    This Luegenschmiede was widely known. Thousands of
strangers came to einzukehren there, and everyone, about
which it occurred, with the hosts and their Stammgaesten
to tie, took his pipe and pulled back thence ashamed.

Usually guests can be bought cheap. Required a beer, he got
a cognac. Coveted it a drink, he was lemonade. Did he
eat a pickled herring, so we put him Jacket potatoes and
apple sauce before. And no refused to accept this and pay
for Everyone knew the embarrassment comes after
it. Better Guests had to fear not so common jokes. The
left to wait. "The must be ripe yet," used the
Luegenschmied say. And everybody was ripe, Any, he might
be, who or what he wanted, whether studied or not studied whether
high or low set. There was often downright ingenious jokes,
but always with a Logging out of the ordinary. A
guest wanted to be shaved, was told the barber was not
home, but he was sitting next to him grad here. This was
not a barber, but a master baker. He soaped those concerned
with water and aniline shaved him without changing his
expression one of those present it twisted. The Shaved
paid and then went away in great delight, completely blue
in the face. He could not be seen for weeks, as a punishment
for the fact that he had claimed in the Luegenschmiede
that he was smarter than all, it can fool nobody. A
other guests were told that his brother was today ' Morning
accident on the fair. He was a Giant organ grinder
came too close and the right Leg caught in the wheels, after he had
consequently have to remove the leg below the knee.

    The man jumped up, startled and ran away, came but very
soon laughing and with his completely healthy brother back.
The gentlemen of the Authority very much wrong in the
Luegenschmiede, but only at times when they are there
alone and unobserved . Knew They could be also a joke
like, and often had only their influence Luegenschmied
due to his often jokes that the far without unpleasant consequences
were. For the degenerated case, like everything that comes
down from the lowly, to to and from. The jokes were common;
they lost the appeal. They had spent itself. And a Everyone
who entered the Luegenschmiede believed, lie and to be
able to present falsehoods. The Spirit went out. What used
real humor, real Mischief and real joke and farce have been
was that was now for obscenity, for ambiguity to untruth,
for forgery, for careless Gossip and lies. The time now is
Luegenschmiede disappeared. The house was razed to the ground.
Unfortunately, the consequences of inappropriate Witzbolderei
not disappeared. They still exist today. They linger.
It was also a swamp, and Although one in bright green and
waving flowers hidden swamp. Not only the local soul
under he suffered, but his miasma are also in the wide
Circumference around the country about gone, and unfortunately,
Unfortunately, I am one of those very difficult and had to suffer
and to this day have to suffer. The fact that my opponent
could dare the Karl May, who I in fact and truth 'm turning
into the most mendacious of all cartoons and me even as
market women and Bandit Raeuberhauptmann through all the
newspapers to carry, which became the largest part made possible
by the Luegenschmiede whose Stammgaeste did not
think what she in me committed when they each other
with new inventions about my adventures and alleged
misdeeds finally kicked. I come back to this elsewhere
and I have to say here very briefly: What about those cheaters
society about "Batzendorf" and over the "Luegenschmiede" had
to report, are some brief insight into the prevailing
conditions of my Native city. I could have this very insight
deepen and expand in order to prove that it really and
is truly been a very contaminated soil, which my soul
was forced to beat their roots, but this will be like
and with pleasure, because I have seen recently, to
my delight, how much where it has changed. I had my home
town long time and wanted to also avoided further Who
avoid when I was forced by a case they again seek. I was
pleasantly disappointed. I am not outwardly but inwardly.
I've seen enough of the cities and towns, as nothing can disappoint
me surprise and nothing. How do I in any encounter
with an alien to me now People first and above all,
his soul Seeking to know, so also the soul of every
Place that I enter again. And the soul of the High-Ernsttal
was still the old one, which I saw at once; but she
had lifted her, for she had cleaned her, for she had a different,
better and more dignified appearance . Get I had the
opportunity to for a few days to be able to observe,
and must say that I these observations joy prepared.
I found Intelligence, where there had been no earlier.
I met a lively Rechtsgefuehl, which is not as easy
as earlier was mislead. There was more sense of community,
more Zusammenhangsgefuehl. Yes, the material conditions
showed an upward glance up everywhere even in the ideal.
The ground on which they lived, had lifted and showed
the ability to henceforth and also to improve rapidly.
I met old friends, from which "become something" really was.
The I was gratified that I had not expected. Since
there was no longer the old, indolent faces Expressing Bauernpfiffigkeit
unpleasant, but The trains spoke of insight and
ability in ueberlegsamer healthy wisdom and discernment.
Was this is merely a consequence of the influx from
the outside? Certainly not exclusively, although not denied
may want to refresh foreign blood in the community life,
strengthening and improving effect. I confess honestly, that
I ever since that visit and since those Observations with
my own country again sympathize and sincerely hope that
now so clearly visible Progress even after a permanent
spiritual goals may be. The proof is furnished that the old
days passed. It has roused itself and increases with youthful
energy up, which brings success, and with the success also
comes the blessing.

After these general remarks, I can now to myself and go
back to that Morgenfruehe in I walked away from the
Ernsttal to me in a noble to bring Spanish Raeuberhauptmann
help. We believe not saying that this was a "crazy" idea. I was
mentally healthy. My logic was still childish, but
already wohlgeuebt. The fault was because I read
trashy the result of intricate Roman held for life and therefore
life now simply treated as a novel. About the rich imagination,
gifted me with the nature, made the possibility this
confusion of reality.

My trip to Spain took only one day. In the area
of ​​Zwickau living relatives of us. I went with them one.
They took me in a friendly up and led me to stay. Meanwhile
had been found at home and read my note. Father knew in
what direction is towards Spain. He immediately thought
of the aforementioned relatives and made in the
conviction me there safely be found immediately on the
road. When he came, we sat around the table and I told all Herzensaufrichtigkeit
where I wanted, to whom and why. The relatives were
poor, simple, honest weavers. Of imagination, there was no trace
in them. You were simply shocked about my project.
Help Raeuberhauptmann a look! They knew at first any
advice what to do with me and there it was like a salvation
for them, as they think Father saw room there. He, the
hot-tempered, easily over heated man, behaved very differently
than usual. His eyes were moist. He did not say Word of
anger. He hugged me and said: "Do such a thing never
again, never!" Then went he continued after a short rest
with me - back home -.

The road was five hours. We are in this Time stood side
by side walked, and he led me hand. I have never felt more clearly
as then, how he loved me really had. All he dated Life wished
and hoped that he concentrated on me. I took
before Christmas, he never again such a Suffering, such
as today, to have to do to me. And he? What might be good
for the thoughts that now rang out in him? He said nothing. When
we looked Came home, I had to resign because I small
Guy was gone for ten hours and extremely tired. was from my
trip to Spain never spoken a word, but the cone placement
and reading of those pernicious novels heard. As Then
it was time to put the necessary help one, without being brought
from the land of chestnuts being forced to.

    The pastor put a good word for to thank our patron,
the Earl of Hinterglauchau, , and this gave me a support
of fifteen crowns a year, a sum that is for I thought
it sufficient to attend the seminar.
 On land, however, we should teach them a very different
lesson; but on the sea it must be owned that, somehow, we are less valiant than on shore."

Every day a priest came down to the barracks, and for an hour endeavored to instill the elements
of his religion into the minds of the now civilized wild men. He is taken and after the "ghost tank" managed to be
there, tortured and tormented, until he feels compelled
by the pain, rending apology return back to the hated yoke.

For
between Ardistan and Dschinnistan is Maerdistan, aufwaertssteigende
those steep jungle strips by whose trees and rock mazes of the infinitely
perilous and is arduous way up.

    Maerd is a Persian word, it means "man". Maerdistan is the
intermediate country, in which only "men" cars are allowed,
and each other is necessarily a basis. The most dangerous part
of this almost entirely unknown Area is the "forest
of Kulube. Kulube is a Arabic word, it means the majority
of the German Word "heart." Also lurking in the depths
of the heart the enemy, the one to defeat one after the
other, have when you get out after Ardistan Dschinnistan
wants. And in the middle of that forest Kulube to
find that place of torment, from which it in "Babel, Bible,
"page 78 states:

"To Maerdistan, in the forest of Kulube, If lonely, deeply
hidden, the ghost forge. Since forge spirits?
"

      "No, the forge! The silent brings towed
      at midnight If lightning that plunge down Traenenfluten.
      The hatred throws himself in grim mood for it.

                   The envy profoundly impacts
      the flesh their claws. The regret is sweating and
      moaning on the blower. On the blocks is the pain,
      with rigid August In the sooty face, his hand
      on the hammer. There, now, O Sheik take up the tongs.
      One hits you in the fire, the bellows creak.
      The blaze jerks up, the roof also, And all that
      you have and what you are, The body, mind,
      soul, all bones, The tendons, fibers, fibers, meat
      and blood, Thoughts and feelings, everything, everything
      If you burned, tortured and martyred Until
      the white blaze - - - "
      
      "Allah, Allah!" "Do not shout, O Sheik, I tell
      you, do not shout! After all, who cries
      because, this agony is not worth Is discarded
      in the trash and brackish And must then be melted down again.

                                   But you want to
      get to the steel, the blade, The sparkles in the fist
      of the Paraclete. So be quiet!
      
      It rips you out of the fire - - You throw up
      on the anvil - - is holding up. It crackles
      and pops you in every pore. The pain begins
      his work, the smith, the master.

                     He spits in his fists, then accesses.
      Raise high beiderhaendig the giant hammer - - - The
      blows fall. Each is a murder, A murder on
      you. You mean, to be crushed. The hot pieces fly in all
      directions. Your ego is thinner, smaller, smaller,
      And yet you have to back into the fire - - And again
      - - again and again until the smith The mind
      does not know that from the Hoellenqual And from
      the haze of soot and hammer He quietly, grateful
      entgegenlaechelt happy. The screws in the floor
      and he picks up a file. The screeches and crackles
      and eats away from you What else - - - "
      
      "Stop!" It is enough! " "It goes further, because
      the drill is, The screw is deep - - - " "Be
      quiet! For God's sake!" etc., etc.
      
      So it looks in Maerdistan, and so therefore issue in the interior
of the "ghost forge Kulube" too!

                  Every resident of the star
      Sitara knows the legend that the souls of all
      the important people who were born
                   should be, coming down from heaven.
                    Angel and the devil waiting for them.

    The soul that the luck has to meet an angel, in
Dschinnistan born, and all her paths are paved. Poor
Soul, however, which falls into the hands of a vicious,
is dragged him to a deeper Ardistan and so Misery thrown,
the higher the task is to was given her from above.
The devil wants, she should perish, and rest by day or at
Night, from the talent or even genius Certain possible
depraved, lost people . Make Everything notoriously
and rebellion does not help; the poor are doomed to destruction.
And even if he managed to escape from Ardistan so would but
he took in Maerdistan and after the ghost forge dragged,
tortured and tormented for so long be, until he loses
the last remnant of courage to resist.

Only rarely is the celestial force that such a after
Ardistan thrown soul was given, so big and so inexhaustible,
that even the strongest pain the spirit endures, and
forging the forge and its Fellows "from the haze of soot
and hammer quietly grateful entgegenlaechelt happy. "One such
Heaven daughter can not even this biggest pain
, It is immune to harm, it is saved. It is not destroyed
by fire, but refined and tempered.

    And are all dross of it jumped, then the Smith to
leave her, for it is nothing more her what belongs to Ardistan.
Therefore, neither Man or devil hinder them more, under the wrath
of shouting to rise throughout the lowlands after Dschinnistan,
where every man the angel of his neighbor is. - -
-

II My childhood.

I'm in the lowest, deepest Ardistan born, a favorite
of the need, the concern of the Grief. My father was
a poor weaver. My grandfathers were both fatal accident.
My mother's father at home, the father of my father but in
the forest. It was Christmas after the nearby village went
to get bread. The night surprised him. He
was in deep Snow off the road and crashed into the steep gorge of
the time "Kraehenholzes" from which he could not work out.

                            His
                      tracks have been blown away.

Man sought for a long Time in vain for him. Only when the snow was gone, they found his body
and the bread. On the whole, is Christmas for me and my family very often not happy, but verhaengnisvolle
one time been.

I was born on 25 February 1842 in the then very poor and small, Ore Weberstaedtchen Ernsttal,
which is bigger now with the somewhat Hohenstein is connected. There were nine people: my father,
my mother, two grandmothers, four Sisters and me, the only boy. The mother My mother scrubbed
for the people and spun wool. It happened that they were more than 25 pence per day deserved. Since
it was splendid, and distributed two Dreierbroetchen, which cost
only four pennies, because they extremely hard and stale, often moldy,
were five of us children.

    She was a good, industrious, taciturn woman
who never complained. She died, as it was said, from
Altersschwaeche. The actual cause But her death was probably what
is presently discreetly described as "malnutrition"
cares. About My other Grandmother, my father's mother,
I have to say something more, but not here at this
Place. My mother was a martyr, a saint, always quiet, infinitely
hard working, despite our own poverty always willing to
make sacrifices for others, perhaps even poorer people.
Never, never I have a bad word from her Mouth belongs. She
was a blessing for everyone, with the she associated, above
all, a blessing for us, their Children. She could still
suffer so hard, no one heard about it. But the evening
when, the knitting needles busy touching the small, smoky
Oellaempchen sat unnoticed and imagined, as it happened
that a tear in her eye and went to faster than She had come
to disappear, her cheeks ran. With a movement of the
finger tip Suffer now blurred trace.

My father was a man with two souls. The a soul infinitely soft,
the other tyrannical, fully Excess in anger, unable to control
himself. He possessed great talent, but all undeveloped
remained, the great poverty were due. He had never attended
school, but running on his own diligence read and write
very well learned. He owned at all, what was needed, an
innate skill. What his Eyes saw that made his hands. Although
Only Weber, he was able to skirt and pants to tailor
itself and commanded his own boots. He carved and sculpted
like, and what he's done claimed that the Schick and had
not been that bad. When I have a violin and he had no
money and had to bow, he quickly made himself one. The
Although it lacked a bit of flare of nice and Elegance, but it is
quite enough, his determination to meeting.

    Father was fond of busy, but was to be Fleiss always
in a hurry. Why another fourteen Weber Hours needed, plus
it took him only ten, the rest He used to be four things
that were dear to him. During those ten hours was not strained
get along with him, everything was silent, no one was
allowed to stir. Since we were in constant fear of him . Enrage
Then woe to us! On loom hung a triple-braided rope, the blue
stripes , left, and put behind the stove of the well-known
"Birch Hans", before we children especially afraid, because
my father liked him from the castigation in the large
"pot furnace" soak to make it more elastic and thus to make
more insistent. Moreover, if the ten hours were over, so
we had nothing to fear, we all breathed a sigh, and another
father Soul smiled at us. He was then almost his heart-winning,
but we were even in the most cheerful and peaceful moments,
the feeling that we are on volcanic soils and were
from moment to moment could expect an outbreak. Then we got
the rope or the "Hans" until father anymore. Our oldest sister,
a gifted, sweet, cheerful, industrious girl, was even
more than Bride Slapping chastised because of a Walk with
her groom a little later home came when she had been allowed.

Here
I have to take a break, give me a serious, more important
remark permit. I write this book is not about my opponent's
sake, such as to answer them or me against them To defend
but I think that by Way in which one umstuermt me
any answer and any defense is excluded. I write
this book not for my friends because who know, understand
and comprehend me, so I do not first need of them,
give them clear up about me. I write it but only ummeinerselb
st's sake, to be clear about me and me about what I did
so far and further still intended to do, give an account
to place. I write to confess. But I do not confess about
the people who are indeed did not occur to me to confess
their sins, but I confess my Lord and myself, and
what these two say, when I have finished is for me prevail.
It is for me not common, but holy hours in which I present
Arch write. I speak not only for this, but also for
that life, in which I believe and for which I yearn.
While I confess here I confer the shape and nature,
as I once exist after death will. As it can me truly, truly
be indifferent to what is in this or say in that camp at that
my book. I put it in very different, in the right hands,
namely in the hands of fate, the all-knowing Providence, which
is neither favor nor disfavor, but alone justice and truth are.

    As can be nothing to hide and not cover up anything.
You have to All say honestly and sincerely acknowledge,
as it was and as it is, it appears even the irreverent
and do it still hurt so much. One has the words
"Karl May-issue "was invented. Well, I accept it and let
him apply. This problem is not me Solve all of those who
do not read my books or did not understand about
them and yet judge. The Karl May issue is the human problem
from the large, all-inclusive plural in the singular, transposed
into the individual individuality. And just as this problem
is to solve humanity, is Karl May also to solve problem, not help it! Anyone
unable to show that Karl May in Raetsel to solve more
satisfying, humane manner, which may for God Will of the weak
hands and the lack of thought of them can, over the
access to even out and to deal with difficult questions
of humanity! The Key to all these mysteries has been around.
The Christian Church calls it "original sin". The forefathers
foremothers and get, say, the children and grandchildren
To understand and only the humanitarian efforts, the true noble
human spirit it is given, considering the ancestors to
be true and honest to face the Offspring can be
true and honest. The Influence of the deceased to their
posterity to the to draw natural light, a bliss right
and left a release for both parties, and I also have the
Add just draw how they actually were, one might consider
this unchildlike or not. I not only against them and me
but also against my fellow human beings to be true. Perhaps
some learn from our example, in his case the right thing
to do. - -

Mother had unexpectedly from a remote Relatives inherited a
house and several small, linen Budget to do so. One of these
wallet contained nothing but Two Pfenniger, another loud
Three Penny, a third louder penny. pocketed in a fourth
Fuenfzigpfenniger whole shock, and in the fifth
and were found last ten old Schafhaeuselsechser,
ten Achtgroschenstuecke five, and four gulden coins before.
The was indeed a fortune! That seemed almost poverty like
a million! Of course, the house was only three wide and very
narrow windows made of wood, but but it was three
stories high and had the top under the ridge a dovecote, which
in other Houses do not always know, is apt to be the
case. Grandmother, my father's mother, moved into the Ground
floor, where there is only one room with two windows
and The front door was. Behind it was a room with
a Waescherolle old, for two of the pennies per hour other
people were hired. There were happy Saturdays, where this role
ten, twelve, even fourteen Pennies earned. This has encouraged
the prosperity quite significant. The first floor housed
the parents us. As the loom was the Spulrad. On the second floor
we slept with a colony of Mice and some large rodents, which
actually in the pigeon-lived and in the night came
only to visit us. There was also a cellar, but
was he always empty. Once there were some sacks of potatoes
fact that does not belong to us, but to a Neighbor who
had no basement. Grandmother said that It would be
much better if the cellar it and the potatoes ours. The
yard was so large degree that we five Children were able
to line up without knocking each other. Thereto bordered
the garden, where there is a Elder tree, an apple,
a plum tree and a Wassertuempel was that we called a "pond".
The Elder gave us the tea to sweat when we We had a cold
kept, but not very long, because if the one caught a cold,
caught all the others on to cough and wanted to sweat with
him.

    The Apple tree blossoms beautifully, and always very
abundant, as we but knew only too well that the apples
immediately after the flower tastes best, he was usually
already Harvested in early June. But the plums were
sacred to us. Grandmother she ate too much. They were
counted daily, and no one dared them to . Assault We
children were yet more, much more of it than we actually
state. As for the "pond" concerned, he was very busy area,
but unfortunately not with fish but with frogs. We
all knew individually, even his voice. There were
always so between ten and fifteen. We fed them with Earthworms,
flies, beetles and all sorts of other good Things we
of culinary or aesthetic Reasons could not enjoy themselves,
and they were us also very grateful for that. They knew us.
You came to the shore, when we approached them. Some
could even pet and take. The With real but we heard
the evening, when we were asleep. No milkmaid may
be more about her zither as we look over our frogs. We knew
exactly what it was to hear of the less [sic], whether Arthur,
Paul and Fritz, and if they to do duet or sing in the
choir began, so we jumped out of bed and opened the windows,
to mitzuquaken came to Mother or Grandmother and took
us back to where we belonged now. Sorry But once
a so-called local doctor came into the town, to make
so-called health examinations. He had some fault everywhere.
This How unfeeling man struck as strange as he our
garden and our beautiful pond, saw the hands together
over his head and explained that this plague and cholera
lake would have to disappear immediately. The next
Days gave the officer a note of Mr. Eberhard City Judge Layritz
the content that within now and completed three days of the
pond and the frog colony to kill, be with fifteen "Good Penny"
punishment. We children were outraged. Our frogs kill! Yes,
if the Lord was a city judge Layritz would
be, then warmly welcome you! We took counsel and what we decided,
was executed. The Pool was exhausted to the point that we
take the frogs could. They were done in the large covered
basket and then out behind the house after the shooting large
Colliery pond worn, Grandmother ahead, behind us. There
was all taken out individually, caressed, stroked
and left in the water.
 That is all I have to say to you."

Then the men in black stepped forward and said, "We arrest you, in the name of the holy Inquisition,
on the charge of heresy."

The young men glanced at the governor, believing that he was sufficiently their friend to give
them a sign, if resistance would be of any avail. He replied to the unspoken question by an
almost imperceptible shake of the head; and it was well that the boys abandoned the idea, for
the door opened and a guard of six men, armed to the teeth, although in plain dark clothes,
entered. These were the alguazils of the holy office, the birds of night, whose appearance
was dreaded even by the most bigoted Spaniards; and at whose approach mothers clasped their
children closer to their breast, and men crossed themselves, at the thought that their passage
boded death to some unhappy victim. For it must be remembered that the Inquisition, framed
at first only for the discovery and punishment of heresy, later became an instrument of private
vengeance. Men denounced wives of whom they wished to be rid, wives husbands; no relations
of kin were sufficient to ensure safety. The evidence, sometimes true, was more often manufactured
by malice and hate; until at last even the most earnest and sincere Catholics trembled when
they thought that, at any moment, they might be denounced and flung into the dungeons of the
Inquisition.

Brave as the lads were, they could not avoid a thrill of horror, at the presence of the familiars
of this dreaded body. They were, however, cheered by the thought of the promises of the young
Spaniard, in whose honesty and honor they had great faith; and with a few words of adieu to
the governor, and thanks to him for what he had done in their behalf, they followed the officers
of the Inquisition along the streets of Arica, and suffered themselves to be placed on board
the boat, which lay alongside the mole. The youth on the plane, their high level usually growing in tufts of grass, their numerous,
small and large holes accustomed horses leaving the reins, the rider chases flock to the volatile
(jumping jacks are too fast for him to catch them completely), until he obtained a half-hour
rides, then the assegai already prepared draft and bores into the animal on which it rushes past
the hunter is content with this one and almost never prosecuted a second, but the horse turns
and throws his second javelin, of the elusive animals usually makes an end. The fewer the wounds,
the more gracious, the Fell from the bass answered.

Since the emitted messenger did not come, I had a puncture. No sooner had, however, my servant
of this work done, as one of the Makalahari discovered the incoming comrades from afar. The answer
was to the effect that the bass only one team (train) would have oxen, which he himself benöthige,
but that he would give us a sheep for a cup of gunpowder (a little over a pound). I accepted
this offer and received a fat "fat tail" for the required quantity Gunpowder, which I have some little
things (fire cans, chains, needles, etc.) as a gift append to that to counter the Makalahari
rushed me and some and some Protelesfelle Bläßbock and Hartebeesthörner brought about.

The morning of the next day brought me a very unpleasant surprise, one of the bullocks had died, I was
now nothing left but the heavy weight of the car the other three Zugthierpaaren rebuttal. In
the valley, which we now pursued, led some Querthäler, whose sole cultivated fields covered,
and after a few miles we came to a from south Extending north valley, some of us temporary Koranna's
than that of the Konana-Rivers, which was turning to a height of land after Maretsane called. This Höhenland
inhabited by Koranna's and Barolongs and their vassals under the prerogative Schebor of the chief,
who himself again Montsua's subject is.

After a few miles we came to the long drive in a saddle height and on the slope with trees
spreading canopy height, at 1000 inhabitants Konana. On a free by the city to the east and the
deep, narrow valley of the Konana-Rivers falling back spreading the grass where I stopped to
get better with my car, the Attention of residents to draw on us, because here I was hoping some
fresh draft animals to exchange. It lasted not long before we were besieged by numerous visitors,
under which the Koranna's is the overriding contingent. I had the car in front of some of the exchanged,
originally for the purchase of ethnographic objects specific commodities spread. It was a good
plush suit, a pair of shoes, two colorful woolen shirts, a Hat, half a dozen handkerchiefs, and
half a roll of tobacco. The chief of the village himself came to inspect the goods at, and
drank a cup of coffee with us, but showed the people no inclination to respond to my proposed
exchange. bought from one of the Barolongs I for one Kalikohemd a wooden bowl, by someone else for
a cup of gunpowder, two Kiri's and two jackal skins, of a woman two crafted from glass beads
jewelry. From some of the attendees, we learned that the surrounding hills, as well as those on
Setlagole- and house-Maretsane creek many lions. The lions were so bold and so specifically
(which I thought was confirmed), because they often got the bang of the rifle to hear and at
the sight of people were accustomed. Although the neighborhood of teeming wildlife, expressed
the kings of the forest still a special affection for the flocks of people.

One of the Barolongs brought me the skin of a not fully-grown lion,
for he coveted St. £ 3 in gold.

I offered an old coat for it, but he insisted on the required Award since it had already sold
another lion skin in Klipdrift for £ 3 St.. I advised him to take it on the back and thus to Klipdrift
walk, a unreasonable demand, the excitement in the Barolongs said. To me, perhaps yielding to
vote, began his friend to tell me truly mustergiltigem in Dutch, on what kind of pouting Companion
to the lion skins had come. [1]

1: I purposely leave here the full text of this story , Followed by
the awkwardness of the natives on these occasions to characterize.

    
    
    The man, "said our Vis-à-vis, pointing to the rumbling heroes," had
only one cow, the cow was his, he has two wives and a good piece of
land.

A shepherd, the other to supervise cattle from the village, had herded the cow. This boy is now
a Day went on crying and complaining that a lion would have strangled the cow. My companion invited
silence his gun and followed the boy who had to carry the powder horn. At one point, from which
one could see the lion and its prey, my friend crawled up a tree to maintain Rundschau. Yes,
there he saw the cow lying, but no lions here. My 'brother' therefore approached the boy and crawled
to a nearby tree, from which he reduced the wanted to shoot robber dead as a Meerkatje (scratching
animal). had "My poor" Brother to the next morning to sit on the tree, he wanted to go down against
the evening when he on the buckthorn tree - he was seized in there (the narrator with extended
fingers after a fork) - and his body did not like "hard" (rigid) was, but he thought again
on the evening of the bushes erupting lion and he remained with the boy, who because his feet
from standing on a thin branch had become painful, terrible howled. In the night they came,
not "a" (the narrator threw out his chest), but many (he started from the little finger of
his left hand to count to the right), eight lions, Makoa he (White) - eight lions "He looked around
for my companions and servants, whether it would have probably heard all, and repeated "eight
lions," and he bent down slightly, stretched above the body and both hands holding the right
with eight fingers the number even more sought to interpret, while his friend dareinblickend
dark, still if the aforementioned Unreasonable demand insulted incessantly muttered something
into it in itself, of which only the words dree pund - dree pund (three pounds) were audible.

After
the narrator had made sure that we had understood all the eight lions, he continued his report. "My
brother on the tree and the child wanted with him no lion shoot dead before dawn, until the man shot
at one whose skin is here and who came to the tree to get to the skull to rub it. My brother stayed
our feet on the tree, and after he had shouted the boy, holding on
with hands and feet about not by the terror that could cause him in
the shot to fall down put on it.

"Tla-boom" (here an efficient Crace followed with the fingers of the shot sensualize should)
and (the narrator now seized after the fall) det Leu wat dod, dod Morsh (The lion was dead, mausetodt).
But the others grumbled and roared and showed my brother and the child's teeth so grim that this
began to cry again. But when the sun was warm and had gnawed the cow, they ran away. My friend,
however, jumped down, let the boy to stand guard at the tree and took it off the skin of the shot lions
He then brought home and for which he mut get 3 ^ h. (must), because the lion's his only Cow
have strangled, he could not even do her hair. Also got my brother £ 3 St. for the fur of a
lion, not a cow which had killed. "

"And why has he," not your "brother shot all the lions" - turned the rapporteur according to
the always grumbling standing there and this fellow, who by the question offense was answered
in Setschuana with distorted with anger trains. "Did not the child as it came to me. "Ra" (Father,
Lord), Your cow has strangled a lion? And so was I have a ball. "Then he took his lion skin
and carried away by it.

Also Schebor, who later operated supervening chief, that the lions in the bushes and on the heights
of the three rivers Konana, Setlagole Maretsane and "bad" (evil) are and he had quite a few
of his people, then killed some of his cattle. He urged us especially during the drive to
be careful on the opposite heights bushy, which is an especially popular activity were the
lions. He told me the following sad Case, which occurred in these
rivers and to me later in Linokana (City of Baharutse was retold).

A crowd of natives from near Maraba (Maraba's city) passed on their way to the diamond fields that
region. These people, often their home (eg the Makalakaland, of the diamond fields more than 800
miles away) with only one and a assagai Piece of skin and is fitted out throughout the long haul up
to the diamond fields only feed on roots, wild fruits, only here and there from the flesh
of smaller wild prey, often offer the traveler who meets with them
on their northward migration, a sight that would soften the hard-hearted.

There are literally starved to skeletons, for days starving figures who then sneak their way and
hunger by To fight that the body belt, usually next to the piece of fur their only clothing ,
Pull together tighter. Such a band was on their march to the adjacent Setlagolefluß come. As
usual, followed by one to another on the natives this area made use paths. The powerful, yet diffracted,
took over the management, Remained weak, the weakest, or a patient is left to itself, usually
as a last far behind its contemporaries. In this crowd were two brothers, one of which one
for eight days was the "ultimate" already. arrived on the shores of Setlagole, wanted to the band
was searching for some rest and turnip-like shaped tubers on charcoal fire Fried, should provide
the desired night snack. The shore of the river proved to be in such so productive that they
decided to stay here. The usual closed circuit, however, this evening is not perfect - was missing
one of the dark men. They saw each other , after which one, the missing own brother got up,
his brother and the tubers in his little coat was, he retired from the shoulder, and took his
assegai Brother went looking. The others sat closer to the fire, closed the circle, consumed their
snack and having built several fires, they lay between this and a Bushes to a well-earned rest.

The
sick, weakened by hunger, sore feet tortured Bechuanaland (a Batloka) had often rest and so he
had strayed from the right path and followed that in a rocky, converted by countless Kareebäume
and bushes in a thicket of localized and introduced among the natives as well-known cave lions
valley line. In a thriving and shady resting mimosa, was the arms of a sudden a jump the whole
swarm of his friends and him silently following lions thrown down and the next Moments also
killed.

His brother goes back to the path that runs on the grass in order to more clearly identify the
location where the footprints left the path, he finds the body and the Irrpfad, which the patients
hit, but he already sees the lion track in the sand.

Rather than turn back and help to address the comrades, he rushes forward - he has a weapon, but
what is this weapon in the hands of a half-starved from a lion, have enjoyed the warm human
flesh and smelled blood? So he comes to the place where the brother killed without resistance
of the Lion was his brother lying on the ground floor - the corpse itself was carried off by
the lion have been - he looks around, takes a few steps - where the brother of woven straw Hat
and his Kürbißgefäß, he jumps in more detail, around a tree - this is below the halbbenagte Body of
the person sought.

A scream goes through the stillness of the evening on Setlagole-shore. But even the lion, who
noticed the new arrival had been long, behind a nearby bush in ambush, and recorded his second
victim at the moment as it tore through the to throw the body of his brother was on the point.

The
next morning as the Batloka's woke up and were preparing to continue the journey, missing If
the two brothers. Nothing good knowing ran only a few, on the other side some hundred yards away
lying Barolongs-farms to get help, that is, men with guns to request that they be taking home even
willingly. They followed the path which took the lion track partly obliterated by the footprints
of the second brother and finally the two bodies, the people were also able to perceive clearly
that the beast of prey until very recently, probably must have left before retreating to the noisy
people, the place. They then took his Track, and followed her 500 steps far along the riverbank.
In some believed a bend seen in the Vaalbüschen a yellow shining object, called in the others
and although it was not the subject of a lion, All the shooters to beat the small bushes, the respective
yellow translucent object, and let fly.

The amazement but was great when they mature one male, six bullets pierced lions dead shrubs
encountered in [1].

1: See Annex 16

Three miles from Konana on the opposite slope (after we the time of our had passed through to
visit a few Laughing dry river), we chose us a Camp, and met all the necessary arrangements
to any surprises from page Lion prevent. The next morning - it was a truly lovely, clear morning
- broke The warm golden rays through the branches above us and encouraged in these sectors is
cavorting feathered world opening their concerts. In particular, many were shrike species smaller
songbirds and Tockus plavirostris (toucans) represented .-- The trip went very slowly of Amsterdam,
as we often had to treat some of the bullocks and the rest dichtbebuschte route could be traveled
with caution.

    Without one of the royal beasts even in sight to be, we stepped out
after a few hours from the bushy part of the road.

Unforgettable is me and my companions, the outlook remain on the area which presented itself
to us now when we got a free survey of the sprawling before us win plateau. Days as the 26th
November 1873 to me to be a hunting friend, but as an observer in a higher degree the free
movement of animal life, all my life in a fresh, unforgettable remembrance remain and make me forget
some bitter experience perfect, they may also honored the Readers my longing to return to
those realms can seem to understand.

arrives at the height of the plateau, we saw an approximately 20 miles long from south to north
protracted, to the east of some mimosa trees and limited here by free spaces with a neighboring
contiguous, 6-7 miles wide grassy plain. With this numerous reddish-brown, low termite mounds and covered
by fresh, recently aufgesproßtem and only in places such as near the water pools formed from
high grass, dark green Carpet was alive with thousands of animals of all kinds. Dark brown
and black, red, brown and light brown, yellowish and spotted were the colors of the robes
with which Mother Nature here assembled company had held. They were mostly black and striped gnus,
Bläßböcke and hartebeest antelopes, gazelles, springbok and zebra (quagga's). Some grazing,
the others teasing each other and playing, there's a herd of wildebeest
one behind the other as sunk in deep thought leisurely border.

Similarly, several grazing Bläßbockheerden, while we initially standing about 150 animals strong
Zebraheerde to in a wide arc to the south moving too slowly. Countless hartebeest graze in smaller Herds
and, as always, closer to the bushes, black wildebeest's in packs of 10-80 pieces of the whole
plane scattered, while between them and the zebra's, everywhere, everywhere you see also liked, was full
of springbok gazelle. A variety of birds brought into this lovely image increased movement. Above
all, it was the great bustard and Eupedotis Kaffra Kori two of the many times mentioned little bustards,
Chenalopes, duck, lapwing, ibises, cranes, Herons, plovers, and many others which by their colorful
plumage and their lean Forms, by her mostly close to the ground then striking her in flight
and all Modulations sounding whistling and cackling jumped into his eyes.

Although I have seen on the first trip as some Scene South African animal life, this Between the
image on the designated I-Jung's pan salt pan and the Konanaflüßchen high plateau surpassed the
boldest imagination, it had even the indifference to make nature lovers. After we - our poor,
tired bullocks forgotten - probably had feasted for an hour at the sight, we deliberated us about
the choice of a suitable Storage bin. Just enjoyed the sight of me had matured in the decision
a few days here to stay.

This level goes up with other related to the upper Hart River to the east, to Maretsane River
to the north and south as far as to Mamusa, covered a huge Surface area and is part of the greater
part of the territories of the king Montsua. It has no noticeable Waste, hardly sufficient that
the excess rain water with the exception of the immediate Riverside
areas a drain under the Hart-River, the Maretsane, Konana and Mokara
finds, therefore, We meet on the same number of large and small salt
lakes and a vast quantity of shallow Depressions that are filled with
puddles of water in the rainy season.

These salt pans seem significantly contribute to the prosperity of the game.

Such a recess, about three miles from the spot where we stood, was the encampment chosen. When
we moved our car through the plane, it was a Zebra's and the Bläßbockantilopen who fled, some of
the more numerous herds, such as the Zebra's, drove to one of the trees to carry one of the many clearings
in the same on the next plane to escape.

In the afternoon I went with E. as a more southerly direction, we opportunity had to observe
the Gnu's pretty close to some of the animals were not shy stand, some ran south, as we approached
on his return closer to the one break, All the animals sat down - a piece of scoring at least 300 Gnuheerde
- a large cloud of dust swirling in motion and turned us over to the south (downwind). The
interesting Acting is also repeated on the following morning and was by no less attractive Fata
Morgana further increased, which designed the individual animals is enormous and the hopping
motion its course in the reflected over the distant horizon layers of air.

The following evening we decided on one of the numerous, formed by the rain, laughter, assumed
shallow holes on the decency. Clearly we were able to hum the Gnu-bulls Who listen to their
flocks led by the pools to drink. In the morning we tried in the southern Part of the plain a
roundup, but without success. F. Pit and had a wrong direction hit, the game uses a formed, about
360 steps wide gap to durchzujagen.

returned to the car we found
some Barolongs that came from Konana and one of the Mimosa trees lossteuerten,
where already were waiting for their companions of the proposed hunt.

They carried us in their aid, of which I did but no use, because I have less of wanted the responsibility
of hunting rather than the observation of the wild species. At last came the evening and with
him one night that I will remain as memorable as the previous day, common ground the worst night in the
first half of my second trip. By nightfall I was with Boly assumed we would spend close to our destinations,
and each of us was looking for make themselves into the narrow hole in the ground as comfortable as
possible.


"What on earth are they doing?" Ned exclaimed. "Have they lost the key, and are they going
to break open the door, and finish with us, now? Get ready. We will make a fight at once, and
try and end it."

Presently the door gave way before the heavy blows which were struck upon it; and, to the astonishment
of the lads, a band of Indians, naked to the waist and holding torches, burst into the cell.

"Here they are!" exclaimed one of them, in Spanish.

"Quick, there is not a moment to be lost. The individual farms were by a 4-6 feet high, made of dry branches produced
fences surrounded. The huts of the average farm group showed the most assiduous work, The group
also reached to the stream. In their midst stood in an open place, the Ruins of a mission building,
which burned down some years earlier. The time of my visit stayed there no missionary should in recent
times, however, of the "London Missionary Society," in the effect of district Lekatlong heard such delegates
have been there. In some Distance from the mission-house stood the church, an elongated, made
of unfired bricks listed, nondescript building with a gable roof was covered with dry grass.

Viewed from the right bank of the city offered their regular rows of farm groups a very nice sight.
In the streets, that the free spaces between the individual farms There was plenty of life, here
you could see women who, carrying large earthenware pots on their heads, rushed to the river, where
again women under the weight of large, heavy bundles of dry grass thickets or went home with a
sigh, while a crowd of naked children were playing riverside amused, others entrusted with
their care back herds to pasture subject. To this image of industrious activity of the women
contrasted the dolce far niente of the Men noticeable everywhere you looked idly lying on
the ground, is a saturated queue same outdoor sunbathing and the efforts of the ingested meal, a rest.

Some
of the men had made of European materials, others worked from weichgegerbten
skins Jackets and trousers, their heads covered with small, grass
or rushes crafted hat.

The men were mostly of medium size, their growth was not as beautiful as that of the Zulu's, still
as strong as that of the Fingo's remarkably light seemed to her skin color. Her features were
marred by an abnormal width of the nose is not much - a malformation, which through the use of
small, caused the place of the handkerchief justifiable Eisenlöffel is. Your reputation as a notorious
idlers was well founded, because although their area very fertile is, they used very little
effort on the cultivation of cereals and were in the market Kimberley rare guests.

In moral terms was the outcome of the last war between the English and Brother of the tribal Batlapinen
the Botlaros of beneficent effect.

Before the war, especially but at the time of the discovery of the River Diggings knew Jantz's
arrogance and his pretensions no limits, his subjects committed numerous incursions into the province,
leaving the British police on horseback Vaal River never come to rest. All this made the victory the
Englishman a quick end.

After visiting the outskirts of the city had left Jantzen's, we entered
lonely again Sections of the Harts River valley, in which only at
a greater distance up the river two important Born into cities are
located.

These are the Taung (after the former ruler "Mahura's City" called), some 70 miles from the mouth
of the River's hard-and Mamusa, the residence a free Korannafürsten. The time of my first trip (on
which I, however, the city unvisited) ruled there an old man who was Maschon, Tibusch by the
Boers, however, ie Zerbusch was called, and what for a version of 112, after another 130 years
old. Mamusa is against English 40th Miles up river from Taung, which by the way, mentioned,
is the seat of the independent Batlapinenfürsten Mankuruane. Apart from these two cities we
find between Lekatlong Mamusa and many natives villages, of which 90 Percent of Batlapinen,
between Taung and Mamusa by Barolongs and just east and across inhabited by Mamusa of Koranna's.
These villages, with the exception of the Koranna's inhabited mostly on the tops of the low, the
Hart River and coming up grassy heights built in or just below the summit of this height and
usually consist of two to eight farms. Only a few, including the largest of these villages,
Mitzima called, are in the valley; this is one of about 30 huts. The residents of these villages, cultivated
fields and gardens Flußthale lie partly in and partly on the slopes. Except Kafirkorn and corn
on these Land also built cane reaches its shaft 7-8 feet high.

We sat down in the valley of the hard-Rivers continued our journey, the many, crossing our path,
deep gorges compelled us to time-consuming detours and prepared many difficulties. A few miles
behind Lekatlong I was obliged to catch hold, it was not long before
Thus came from nearby farms, a boy and an old man who Makoa us (whites)
in barter occurred.

I was surprised by their high demands, but soon found the explanation, the natives here already
knew the value of English money.

On the next trip we took in the reichbebuschten and high grass-covered valley of games no less than in
the riparian scrub, discount hunting opportunities. met in the latter we four species of bustards, including
two dwarf species Trapp and a kind of rare size, the first two in
larger groups, the two larger species in pairs in the bushes fly up,
near the low thorn bushes we found the large-cap guinea fowl in pairs
scratching in the ground.

On sandy river banks and sand-covered parts of the valley slopes prairie chicken sunning themselves,
the densely beschilften bank of the river, the hiding of large flocks of wild ducks, gave
us some booty. The river banks were generally more liberal with the hanging Branches of the
mimosa trees overhang the thin terminal branches of the beautiful yellow with a black Spots on the
throat adorned weaver birds were stripped of leaves, and where this their artistic Had built
nests, which resemble hanging fruit. They were flattened, had an elliptical cross-sectional diameter
of 6-10 and 12-15 centimeters and a height of 12-25 centimeters. The entrance was located on the
lower, flat side of the nest.

These input ports have a crescent shape and are just so great that an animal can get into the nest. The
upper nest space runs to cone-shaped, so much so that the nest attached to the apex of the branches
is. The nests were made from fresh grass supple woven. The construction of the nest is called an artful,
the individual blades of grass are skillfully interwoven and construction
so hard that he completely all storms resistance able to afford.

With the slightest winds began to sway to the beautiful nests and the Movements were reflected
in the calm, by tender, in the depths of proliferating forms of algae dimmed tide faithful
again, a picture that won even more of grace, that a of incoming birds, sometimes for long periods
in the opening festklammernd rocked. Then appeared in the water level is a back and forth pretty
serious yellow-colored dot, which, like a shimmering jewel of the light and dark parts of caves at
the bottom of the river seemed to glide. These weaver birds showed not the slightest fear, so
that we can specifically could easily catch the evening in the nest. Have we moved away from
the nest, and were the escaped on our approach, singer flown back to their homes, so watch
them with curiosity graceful long time through our every move.

On the third day of our trip we saw in the east a protruding from the south, in the Valley of
the hard-Rivers deep penetrating range of hills that us as to the territory of the Chief Mitzima
was duly called. The outermost foothills of this mountain chain called vorgebirgsartigen the
Boers pointed head. The plane was like we traversed a long distance towards a carmine-red Carpet,
which on closer inspection from a myriad mehrblüthiger Lily was.

To other parts of the plane we met beautiful, dark green leaves on the ground a sprawling other
Liliaceae, which were of different weevil species formally covered.

Near a sugar cane plantation we encountered four working women - I used this Opportunity to meet before
our arrival in our city's Mitzima milk demand and said the women in this intention. They were
very pleasing, their hoes in the Stitches leaving, they ran laughing and screaming their more
than 300 steps away huts and it was not long before they were back,
two of them with earthen pots third, a haggard old woman with a large
wooden vessels, filled with delicious fresh milk.

The purchase price also told them a piece of tobacco, my astonishment grew when she told me by
Gert, my interpreter to understand stated that they passionate Consumenten of snuff would.
To me doubt behave, they made the pantomime of attrition, leaving disappear with the cry "Monati"
(ie, which is nice) the tobacco in the caves of their broad noses.

In the afternoon we went on a three huts existing farms, the Clean me immediately noticed over. Even
on my second trip to the various Batlapinenstämmen I found a second, which would be with him to
measure. The cabins were spacious and piles constructed of strong, even stood in a shed a well-crafted
from reeds received heavy trucks in the yard and a smaller one, where just struck me as even
more master of the house with a servant undertook improvements.

Also lacked a plow is not - in Batlapinenlande this was in 1873, still a rarity - and half a
dozen of the leather bags hanging on the milk intended for the cattle enclosure. In the shade of the
wagon shed there were two other Batlapinen, busy to sew a new car from canvas roof; I've never
seen people so eager that strain at work than these two.

In the spacious courtyard of the homestead cavorted around 15 lively dark-colored children, which
up to a barely big leaf Lederschürzchen were stark naked. Was for the larger to the flocks on
the banks of here to keep a mile away, Hart river. Everything was the blessing and the fruit of labor
and wealth.

During the afternoon we had approached the heights of the morning saw. They are the northern
foothills of the Hebron at the right Vaalufer beginning ridge, I found it especially interesting
by the shape of their constituent rocks. Soon there are vertical Blocks, not unlike human forms
and columnar lined up, sometimes they lie stepped over each other
and raise the idea of ​​a gigantic staircase.

When we reached the head lying on this side of Spitz Mitzima, we were hardly reached, surrounded
by the curious, the largest contingent of the fair sex and the hopeful Youth of the most tender
presented by its current owner said the village natives.

They sat down in the genial area next to the car and began first Makoa (the whites) itself,
then the car and all our equipment in the liveliest to criticize. Caused by their often highly comical
gesticulations accompanied the conversation Laughter of our servants in the highest degree,
while we were in doubt whether the mine and Gesture-game wonder or derogatory criticism gives
expression to. My companion K., the detractors vanity made a reproach, it was for the former,
for which also the fact said that F. surprised him several times with the penny in his hand
mirror.

While F., who had not yet passed the children's shoes, in the laughter and the facial expressions
with matched, E. claimed, as always, puffing his pipe, stoic calm.

His Face and his whole demeanor showed contempt, the expression of it but for the specific target
the taunts of the fair sex, made during many a sympathetic view of the K. cute was addressed.

The
women present were all likely to show the whites their wealth, Kattunröcken appeared in and had chest
and neck adorned with numerous strings of beads. Among them, two girls stood out by remarkable
ugliness of the face, by the red ocher lines on the face was not
reduced.

[1]

1: In general, the use Batlapinenfrauen not as Ochre much in order to smear the face, neck and
chest, as the Hottentottenrace women and living in the Cape Colony
Kaffir tribes.

    
    
    The fair sex, the passive attitude tired, soon went on the attack
    and one of the women let us by Gert mean to interpret our goods on
display, as they are for traveling salesman held.

With an outstretched hand we were held against a silent snuff boxes but direct request to fill them.
Since we made no move to their wishes comply with some agreed among the women a new attack, the aim
of our two F. and K. companion were, that smile made her look to women as the most accessible. After
deliberation was held, the ugliest and elders approached the women and made to F. him such
a sincere and heartfelt declaration of love that Gert, in this case as an interpreter officiated,
was hardly possible to keep his smile muscles in check. The scene we rank all a bright smile on,
while F. replied in fury.

To miss our banter, he ventured the assertion that it is Mitzima's youngest wife, the prettiest
of the whole village had been.

When the women were aware that all efforts were in vain love, they
moved away from Car and laid back way back, dancing, in the true sense
of the word there was no dancing, Rather, they were jumping, they
moved into smaller groups, first in a semicircle to the left, then
right in a semicircle, then they made an about two steps long double
jump to the front, turned around and started the movement over again.

We were glad to have become the annoying visitors going on - but our joy was not able to last,
for soon came an even bigger and intrusive group and surrounded the car. This time, helped
us a list of necessity, I climbed the car and started the shot gun
to clean.

At the sight of it made the arrivals an involuntary movement backward, and before I suspected,
the field was cleared.

In late afternoon we left Mitzima's village, which pass through several canyons took so much time
and weary the draft animals so that we on this side of the Pointed
head, in 1 ½ miles from Mitzima, in the vicinity of three small Batlapinengehöften,
had to stop there.

A rising storm behind us had made us anxious concern on this road, for a half-hour downpour would have
been sufficient to prevent any of these canyons, to overcome the
We had to make great efforts in a torrential rain and dangerous power
to .

Transform Our arrival at the farms was not mentioned despite the advanced hour of the evening
remained unnoticed, it turned a visit soon.

The night we spent here was a particularly bright and beautiful, but also sensitive cold. The rock
formations on the slope of the heights matched fantastic shapes,
the dark Shadow extends far into the plains.

The low-tip seemed like a giant keep us on guard, sounded from far and near, the bright tones
of Batlapinengesänge over to us.

The next morning we exchanged by the local council of the nearby farms some pumpkins one and broke
further to the north.

The further we went up the Harts River, the more fertile seemed to be the realm of Batlapinenlandes.
In particular, caught the small sugar cane plantations in the fields and in the garden my astonishment.
But what I particularly noticed was that The natives use this Zuckerrohrart not help that the lower and middle
juicy part of the stem into small pieces and chew.

We first walked through a tree and bush-free level at which I very
specifically peculiarly shaped termite mounds attracted attention.

These buildings provide termites instead of the ordinary, some of the South African plains
by the thousands covering hemisphere and brodlaibförmigen lead to 4 feet high hill at the edge of two
to three small entry holes in the interior - a protruding from the ground up to 6 feet high
and 3-10 inches in diameter, frail, from alumina and sand grains dar. using the saliva of animals together
cemented tube We observed the ground in a radius of 10-48 feet a little bit and raised mostly bare;
from the middle of a body charged are usually one or three, but also several upward to open
tubes, but in the wider sphere were the beginnings of such tubes, often in large quantities as
small cone-shaped up to be closed Erdaufwürfe days . Connect

Around noon we stopped near the river and had us with the very turbid water Be content that we
found in some laughter in his bed, which also by stapling the side
of the herds of the natives was very dirty.

Even the gloomy with the Water prepared meal would not patronize them. During our meal came
up to horned Batlapinen some beasts of burden from a close on a small ridge to our Right hamlets bring
ridden. They jumped off and made their's in the vicinity of our Fire easily. The beasts of burden,
remained off-saddled hardly taken root in the earth are. One can not help laughing when you
use such a Batlapinengruppe see, without being driven, the bulls rush away, as if with one
another for Bets ran. The nasal septum is pierced the nostrils and stuck a wooden plugs, to which,
at both ends of cut, an approximately 2 meter long belt, the bridle, fastened is. Over the back
of the animal is usually a bag or blanket, or a piece Leather thrown, which is to introduce
the saddle. On both sides of belt are related to iron or leather stirrups. The newcomers were
very friendly and one of them answered my question, how far it was to Springbockfontein, taken quickly
by He pointed to the sun above us, "If you now leave this place with your car so you will be the
time when those areas up there laid to rest with the clear Flood of water in which the Springboks
quench their thirst, and fill your water containers may. "

The nearby corn and Kürbißfelder offered me the opportunity to enrich my collection, especially
through some beautiful species of sand beetles (Cicindelidea). In my zeal I did not notice that
a storm was near the breaking out already, and more efficient only when a rain shower me soaked,
I hurried to the car. A flash of lightning went in that moment a few hundred yards Lower down
the valley into a garden of corn, arrived at the car, I found that
my companion had failed, and some for drying in the sun of vegetable
products, as well as the style similar to a nearby bush guns from
the rain to get to safety.

The foreign Visitors were only three at the half-extinguished fire, but now they moved to some protection
to seek protection from the rain, even closer to the car. Jumping in the car, I asked My friends,
I quickly give the plants and then the guns.

One of my companions had passed my first, and was about to give me the guns to pass, when a flash
of lightning close behind the car drove down to earth. I was at that moment the gun with his left
hand grasped on the run, to put it inside to put the car in the proper place (the guns are always
on the inner wall of the car ready to use buckled). By the sudden thunderclap brought out of
near-socket, had my friend drop the bulb end, this is who had a rooster (it was a double speed)
on the tiller and spanned just as I hold with the intention of the
gun in the car, heranzog the same to me, is the unloaded shotgun loaded
with rabbits running right.

I know only to remember that at the moment when the lightning illuminated the whole area bright,
a violently blazing, accompanied by strong detonation fire appearance followed immediately. I
felt sharp pain in the left eye area, and partly from the fright, partly stunned by the shot,
I lost my balance and fell from the chariot. My Friends kept me in the first moments of death,
fortunately my wound was not fatal. The shot had passed through the left palm from the bottom up
and had the left temple touched so that it pierces the Hutkrämpe and the so-generated holes in
of them had filled out with my hair.

However, since the shot so near the left side of his face had been fired, was even the exterior of the
left eye injured. I stayed for two days in that eye totally blind and suffered from a fortnight
at an external eye inflammation. Immediately after the surpluses were the natives jumped from
their hiding places and wondered not a little about the event which had happened before their
eyes. In the moments of the same was a Batlapinengreis approach came to the car that a witness at his
approach this scene was. Before my friends were still clamped to at least hints at this Days
to reach Springbockfontein, some natives came to visit, one of which, the Title to close to
being the son of the old man appeared, and following from this as
admonition was: "Look into the car, there is a dead"

Bas "(lord, Champion). My heart tells me that it must have been a very bad man, because he
the front of the car was, and his friends who gave him the guns slowly, angry with loud Words
scolded, struck him as "Morena" (the Lord of the clouds), with thunder and lightning, so that
he from the car rolled down, and if it is not already dead, no longer eat certain long maize
and the cane will suck. "

Although Springbockfontein was not far off, we had it in view of my State to give up, plus the same
evening. The tremors caused the car me the most intense pain. After a two hour drive we made
hold.


The streets of Lima were deserted, as the news of the landing of a party from the English ship
spread through the town; shops were closed and windows barred, and it was as through a city
of the dead that the band passed rapidly along, until they reached the prison of the Inquisition.
Here the doors were broken down, and the English sailors entered the ghastly prison. The cells
were found to be tenanted only by natives, most of them men who had been captured in the hills,
and who had refused to accept the Catholic religion. These were all loosed, and allowed to
depart in freedom for the mountains, taking with them a store of such provisions for the way
as could be found within the walls.

The sight of the torture room roused the fury of the sailors to the utmost pitch and, breaking
into the part wherein dwelt the principal inquisitors, these were seized and hung from their
windows. The contents of the various rooms were then heaped together, a light applied, and
in a few minutes a glow of flame told the people of Lima that the dreaded prison of the Inquisition
was no more.

The party then returned through the streets to the ship, and took part in the further operations
commanded by the admiral. Proceeding from vessel to vessel, they took out all goods which they
fancied, and which were either valuable, or might be useful to them in their further voyaging.
They hewed down the masts of all the largest ships and, cutting their cables, allowed them
to drift on shore. The Pfiffikus had by this crude Praise the help
of my wife inexperienced fully insured. He urged me to
give him his wish to comply, and asked them to. He asked me wisely
before that I really only present on its bad debt Situation
was. Six years ago, did everything extremely good standing, but
I did not his sister want to get married and gone from
the office, the have all turned into the opposite. To back
to do well, so I was really morally obligated to him now
to extend the helping hand.

As to this latter idea, I felt very well that there was any truth
to it.

    They had Back then my willingness, the sister of the
woman Muenchmeyer to marry, for kept as Of course,
that had been spoken like this everywhere. Because I
rejected the plan, had not only this girl, but the whole family
a nearly Public Reset suffered, which I do not blame indeed
was that made me but inclined to replace Muenchmeyer for any
one to show love. For this purpose was that We had not quarreled,
but as friends were parted. It was therefore probably a Business
executives, but not be a personal reason rejected his request.
So as in commercial Relationship was no compelling reason
to refuse me. I had time, I needed to take my only.
In the fact that Muenchmeyer was popular fiction publishers
was no compulsion for me to have him now on my part not Other
than a trashy novel and popular fiction to . Leave It could
be something better, an organic Sequence of Reiseerzaehlungen
as I Pustet and other Traditional publishers. Indeed I
did, was at the same time also served my life's work,
and I could do that, what I wrote for Muenchmeyer, very well
later for let me appear in bands like this for my Hausschatzerzaehlungen
had been determined.

These considerations went through my head, while Muenchmeyer
and my wife appeals to me. I finally explained that
I might bring myself , Able to write the desired novel, but
only on condition that after a certain time again with
all rights revert to me.

    It allowed on my manuscripts absolutely not a word changed
be, he knew so forth from the past. Muenchmeyer
explained to respond to this, but I like him with the Fees do not
press. He was in trouble and could not much to pay. Later,
when my novel turn good can he obtained by a "fine bonus"
to compensate. It sounded so good. He asked to sit with
him no time to which have to fall back to the novel to me
again, but rather a number of subscribers, according
to which, when it was achieved, it stop me and my rights
I play. He calculated that he and six to seven thousand
subscribers to get his bill; what goes beyond it, merit.
Therefore suggested I propose, in the event that I am going
to write the novel, should Muenchmeyer to the twenty-thousandth
Subscribers allowed to go, no further, then he had me
a "fine Bonus pay, "and the novel case with all Right back
at me. Whether I then compared the appropriate fee for him or
any other Publishers appear to leave continued that only my
business. Then went Muenchmeyer immediately, but I
gave my Promise or definitely not, I said that I thing
still careful about my decision and shall then want to
give tomorrow.

Muenchmeyer came the very next morning in our Hotel to get
my decision. I said yes, half voluntarily and half
forced. My wife had not abated, until I gave her a promise
to him his wish fulfilled. He got the novel to the desired conditions,
namely only to twenty-thousandth subscriber. Return, he
had for the number to pay 35 marks and at the end a "fine
Gratification. "He gave the handshake. Our Contract was therefore
not written but oral.

    He said we were both honest men and would be another
never cheat. It sounds like an insult for him, to require
a signature from him. I went two good reasons then one.
Namely, first allowed for want of a former Saxon Law in
Contract at all only a thousand copies be printed; Muenchmeyer
had hoped so if he wanted to be dishonest, only
self-deceived, so I thought. And secondly, could I look at the
lack of written contract very slightly and inconspicuously
gain through letters. I needed my Business letters to Muenchmeyer
just so very establish that his answers by and by All contained
what had been agreed between us. The I have since done
so sacred to me and Response repealed.

He wished very much that I immediately with the novel begin.
I did him the favor and went quickly back to Hohenstein
to begin without delay. My Wife drove almost more than he himself
Muenchmeyer had a personal preference for the meaningless Entitled
"The Sea-Dogs." I went on this one; guard me but him otherwise,
nor any concessions to make. came after a few weeks favorable
Messages. The novel "went". This "went" is a Technical term,
which is a non-habitual success means. I received neither
adjustment nor revision of read, and it seems very nice,
because I had no The time. I went to document books not
because they tell me would have scattered. I wanted my
free copies to Completion of the novel get completely the same.

    This I was accepted. Certainly it has given me no
Opportunity, my original manuscript to the pressure to To compare
but I do not worry. It was been so determined that I would
not be changed word may carry on and I then had the credulity,
this to hold for sufficiently.

The success of Waldroeschens "seemed not only a good, but to
be an unusual. Muenchmeyer was found in his letters very
satisfied. He said repeatedly that he is now, after such
a short Hold for the time saved, for he would hope that
the novel Sun catchy remain as it was until now. He suggested
the thought of that we do not stay in Hohenstein but would
like to move to Dresden, as he me in his would have near.
My wife took this idea with enthusiasm and made sure that
he so quickly was executed as possible. I am not reluctant.
But I had more time during the Hohenstein and more have
to think of the warning, which in the been reading the
book of catechists was. I had Despite this warning to
me not only at the point where I was born, established
sedentary, but I took a wife from there. I was for some time
been inclined to use the contents of this Accounting office to be
regarded as superstition, but they saw again very soon with the eye
of the psychologist and was then forced by the gravity of the facts
view that a single float necessarily easier hinueberlangt over murky
waters, as if he has a second person has to carry that swim or may
still want to swim.

    So I did this Local alteration quite right, but I did
not pull out of caution Dresden itself, but after urinary
joke to me Elbow room secure. Muenchmeyer stood there
too immediately, and indeed several times weekly. It developed
a first push forward traffic between him and us. I was working
so that I almost do not Rest indulged. The novel step forward
very quickly, and his success grew such that Muenchmeyer
asked me a second and possibly a few more write. I had no
idea that my decision about his wish that all-important
one for me was and that to me if they should fail in the affirmative
to a source of untold misery and unspeakable Possibly be spoiled.
I only looked at the alleged Saw benefits, but not
the danger.

This danger became, as before, from my literary plans out.
Muenchmeyer had these plans do not forget, he still knew
very well. He remembered it now. I had not then can,
because I gave up my position with him execute. But now
I was not an employee, but a free man who could be prevented
by anything, to do what he pleased. And the main thing
I needed it, wanted to write what I do not like Blows to
stretch to many vintages apart, but I could write flottweg
in succession to this, what is now a pulp novel, appeared
later in book form surrendered. The ensnared me. For
this purpose, came the persistent persuasion of
my wife, which the small objections, I had to raise, very easy
to silence brought. In short, I gave my consent, some
write novel, and indeed to all the same conditions such as the
"Sea-Dogs." This work had So me and after the twenty-thousandth
Subscribers with all the rights to be swinging shut,
and then I was a "fine bonus" pay. There was only one only
change, namely, that I for these novels a fee of fifty dollars
per issue basis, instead only thirty-five at the "Sea-Dogs."

As
a result of these arrangements began for me from now,
a time in which I present is not without satisfaction,
but also do not think even without deep shame can. I do not
wonder if I am by this sincerity disgrace, my duty is to
tell the truth, more nothing. It was an almost feverish
diligence with which I time worked. I did not need, like
other Writer, laboriously searching for subjects, I had thought extensive
lists of them created in the I access to only needed to see immediately
what I was looking for.

    And they all had finished, well thought out, and I execute
only had, I needed to write only. And this last I did it
with a zeal that neither me look left to right or left, and
the degree that was what I wanted. I was forced to admit that
it for me no other happiness in life was, as just that, which
flows from the work. That's why I worked so much
and so happy, so happy! This restless diligence thickets
I forget that I am in my Lebensglueck had been wrong,
and much, much lonelier lived as it previously ever been
the case. This deep, inner Abandonment urged me to fill in
the desolate desert, to restless diligence and made me unfortunately
indifferent against the need, on business carefully to
be. It came at Muenchmeyer so much more what I could
cause you to be on guard that more than sufficiently reason was
present, the future and integrity of all of what I
wrote for him, as sure as possible to . Make Do not make
me thereto thought was a mistake I apologize but, to me, but
even today not yet can forgive.

Muenchmeyer family friend had been with us. He had rented
in a kind of joke bladder Garconlogis, Saturdays and Sundays
to its convenient for us able to spend. He was also on the
evenings of Next day and almost always brought his brother,
very often with other people.

    He obviously wants that I contain something not
to be disturbed in my work may, but I could not help it, my
Lord to stay home and then, as to me this is no longer
seemed possible to give up this apartment and Blasewitz continue
to move to the city. My new Apartment was in one of the quietest,
most remote roads, and my new landlord, a very energetic
and Castle Lords of the manor did not tolerate any
noise and ruhestoerenden not at all superfluous in his house. Degree
that was what I was looking for. I found since the inner
and external silence and the collection that I needed.
Muenchmeyer came a few times, then no more. For but presented,
I did not know why, the invitations one of Mrs. Muenchmeyer
them on their Sunday walks to guide you through forest and
heath. This Hikes were advised by their doctor, their
deep Lufteinatmung had prescribed. I had probably nauseous
or participate in them, because this is the desire my wife
was the reasons I do not appreciate, unfortunately understood.
She found not in the seclusion of our present home, they fell out
with the landlord. I had to terminate. We went out to a wheel
housing the American Quarter, about a pub was so that I
could not work. Then she got sick. The doctor advised her
very early after the big walks Services, the world famous Dresden
Park Such doctor's prescription one has to obey. There was
for me no reason to prevent these walks, which began
in the morning and about four to five Clock lasted
three hours. I did not know that Ms. Muenchmeyer also
was not healthy and that they had received from her physician
referral, early to make Morgenspaziergaenge after the Great
Garden. Only After a long, very long time, I learned what during
walks this had happened. My wife was I lost not only emotionally
but also trusted gone.

    The two ladies sat daily to early morning a
pastry shop in the large garden and an exaggerated Housewives
and business policies, the effects of I felt until
later. I made final and moved from Dresden continued
after Kötzschenbroda, the outermost its suburban periphery.

Even
before I was with my recent novels for Muenchmeyer finished.
I had him five written in the period of just four years.
If one has claimed later in court that I for Muenchmeyer
was not busy, but was lazy, so I ask me to call a writer
who made more and same time has also worked for other
publishers. This was today with my "trash time" completed.
- - -

VII My works.

When I speak of my works, I think those of my books, that
tackled at the criticism, or even busy. Those over
which the criticism is silent on whether intentionally or
not, can also be passed over. These belong my humorous stories,
my stories Ore village and a few other things lie hidden in
the newspapers without being collected. I
could do this also my "sky thinking" calculate that one
does not seem to want to mention, since it happened
to Mr. Herman [sic] Cardaun that he is with them so
strangely embarrassed. He known, wrote: "As a lyric poet, but
we have to tolerate it," although in this whole collection is
not a single lyric poem! Even my so-called "Union or Spemannbaende"
I need not discuss, because they never attacked has, although
I'll only be attacked as a young writer and the only
things are, I have written for the youth. So it is only the
Fehsenfeld's "Reiseerzaehlungen" and published by the Muenchmeyer
"trashy novels", the latter be treated in the next
chapter.

My "Reiseerzaehlungen" have, as already mentioned, among
the Arabs of the desert to the Jebel Marah Durimeh
in and the Indians of the jungle and ascend the prairie
to Mount Winnetou. On This way the reader is meant
by low-Anima people access to the knowledge of the Edelmenschentums.
He also will learn how the animators on this Ways in soul
and spirit transformed. So start these stories with
the first volume in the "desert". In the desert, ie in the
void, in the total Ignorance of all that the anima, the soul
and the spirit is concerned. By my Kara Ben Nemsi, the "I,"
the human question occurs in the desert and the Opens
eyes, is the first thing that speaks for itself, a strange,
little guy, him on a large Horse riding is contrary to a
long famous Name attributed and even still claims that he Hadji was,
though he finally has to admit that he is still Never in one of the
holy cities of Islam, was where you are the honorary title of Hajji
purchases.

    Man sees that I am a real German, that is indigenous,
psychological mystery in a strange oriental dress Dress
to make it more interesting and vivid Solve to be able
to. This is what I mean when I say that all these Reiseerzaehlungen
figuratively as parables, so respectively. to take symbolically.
From a mysticism or the like can be no question. My pictures
are so clear, so transparent, that behind they can do to
hide anything mystical.

                            This
                        Haj, who called himself Haji Omar Halef and his father and grandfather
still as Hadji rear adds, does the human anima, which for the soul,
or even for spending the mind, without even to know what you meant
by soul or spirit added.

This happens to us not only in the ordinary, but also in the scholarly life, everyday occurrences,
but one for this error is so blind that I just Arabic People and Arab states must move brought
to these blind eyes to give sight. I send a question Halef this in the very first chapters
to Mecca, so his lie to the truth, because he now Haji really is, and then let him immediately
his "Soul" get to know - - - Hannah [sic], his wife.

I hope this example that I like my taken from the first volume says much of what I want and how
to read my books needs to their real to learn content. A second example may follow: Kara Ben Nemsi
located in the Persian The tribal Dschamikun. This strain is of the People of the Sillan be destroyed.
Since sending the Ustad, the captain of the Dschamikun, a messenger to the Shah, to ask for help. This
messenger has but not yet reached the Shah, he has come the hosts of that opposed to it say
that they had been sent by the Shah, the Dschamikun to bring help. The Shah has got the request
of the Ustad heard, even before they came to him. The Shah but God, and so I interpret this
by Narrative of Christian love from the prayers in Math 6.8: "Your
Father knows what you need before your it asks, "Besides, the Ustad
is none other than Karl May, and the Dschamikun are the people of
his readers, which is to be destroyed by the Sillan.

    I So tell purely German events in the Persian Robes and
make them for friends and foes understandable. Is not
this parable? Not figuratively? Certainly! And it
is about mystical? Not in Least of all! It is so obvious
parable, and so little mystical, that I frankly, a person
using the former disputes and claims the latter,
as a man show, deserves a name that I will not name. Who
is good will, and not necessarily hostile Intention
of reading my books is, without further notice Found that
its content consists almost entirely of metaphors. And
he is once understood this, there remain it certainly
not the many Himmelsmaerchen hidden, which are interspersed
in these parables and the real, deepest content of my Reiseerzaehlungen
form to have. These tales are also that make up my real
life's work at the end to develop my last days.

Is the same but my first figure, namely Haji Halef Omar,
a fairy tale, namely the story of the lost soul who never
can be found again, except if she finds herself And this
Haji is my own anima, yes, the Anima by Karl May!
 A native in a canoe speedily came out to the ship, as soon as she cast anchor;
and, standing at a long distance, made delivery of a very prolix oration, with many gestures
and signs, moving his hand, turning and twisting his head and body, and ending with a great
show of reverence and submission. He returned to shore. Again, and for a third time, he came
out and went through the same ceremony; after which he brought a little basket of rushes, filled
with an herb which is called there tambac, which he threw into the boat. Then he again returned
to shore.

The people came out, many of them in boats, but would not approach the vessel; and upon the
third day the vessel, having received a leak at sea, was brought to anchor nearer the shore,
and preparations were made to land her stores. The Catechist
came into my cell, talking for a while with me and then
went away without me saying anything. A few days later
came the Catholic clergy. He also withdrew after a short
time without him voiced about the reason for his visit. But
in the next day I was led into the church, to the Organ
set, got to play and had submitted notes. The officials
sat down in the aisle of the church so that I did not see
them. When I was but the catechist, which I presented
the tasks. I passed the exam and had to appear before the
director, who told me that that I was appointed organist
and me so much well have to lead to this trustworthy be. That
was the beginning, from which so much for me and my inner
life developed.

I, the Protestant, organ player in a Catholic Church!

    That brought me begin with some Freedom of
movement within the Anstaltsgebaeude. Man could not guard
me with a place at the organ! But it brought me even more,
namely respect for and those considerate, to which I relate
to certain comments sought. The overseer of our Visitation
was a quiet, serious man who gave me very well-liked, and
when he read in the registration book that I Catholic had
become an organist, he was surprised in my cell to ask
myself if perhaps in my committal orders had made a mistake,
as I was as called Evangelical Lutheran. I denied the oversight.
Then he looked at me and said large:

"It's not even been there! As need du - - - well, since you have
to be very musical!

    
The prisoners are of course "you" referred to; From now on, but he
said "you", and others did it the after.

    It was a seemingly small but nevertheless very
considerable achievement, because of their many other
things concluded. Soon turned to my pleasant Surprise found
that my supervisor of the conductor of the Blaeserkorps was.
I told him about my musical employment in Zwickau.
Then he brought me quickly notes to me to give a sample task.
I also passed this test, and was from now on made
sure that I was not prevented, in my strive to free time for
my goals. This supervisor I do have a loving, fatherly friend,
and we have, when he was retired and later to Dresden
drew in a long time rather respectful manner with each other
wrong.

The Catholic catechist was said Koch. He was only Teachers
without an academic background, but a Gentleman in
every respect, and humane as rarely of such a rich educational, psychological
Experience, that what he meant, a much bigger value possessed for
me, as piles of scholarly books.

    He never talked about religious things with me. He
took me for a Protestant and did not make the slightest
attempt on my beliefs influence. And as he turned to me,
so I kept to him. I never gave him a question after
the Catholicism presented. What I had to know there, that I already
knew or could otherwise . Learn I was the beautiful holy relationship,
the gradually arose between him and me, without the disturbing
contradictions in the purely human kindness were allowed
to creep. He did his church service, I think organ
service, but otherwise remained the religion between us completely
untouched and were therefore more direct and
pure affect me. His degree this Silence was as eloquent
as it let his actions speak, and these acts were those
of a noble man, whose Sphere may be a smaller, but even
that Smallest knows how to take great.

I had never played Catholic hymns, and now I met her.
As for organ and other Music pieces I could get my hand! I
had thought possess Musikverstaendnis. I gate! This simple
Catechist me nuts to crack for me to create very made.
What music really is, I only started knowing now, and the music
is not about the least of all the means by which the
Church does.

    The Catholic priest came to me only when a particular finding
in relation to the Organ accompaniment was needed. He
spoke only the absolutely necessary, not on religion, but
when he came to me It was always, as to whether the sun will
shine for me begin. Such people are seldom sun, and yet would
have to actually be any clergy a sun person, because the
layman is inclined too much to the church so assess
and consider how their priests to him .

    Make About the difference between the Protestant
and the Catholic church I go my way, but Any reasonable
person will be there for quite deservedly and keep natural that
I did not four years many take part in the latter, and even
actively him could be involved without being influenced
by him. We are not stones, of which all soft bounce! And even
this stone is warm when the ray of sunshine hits him! And
these services were indeed sun rays! There is still
a infinite gratitude for the warmth and goodness in this me,
took care of me and not a single complaint for me was when everything
else was against me. I I blessed them up to the present
day and will bless them, as long as I live! How must poor
but the People are inside, who assert that I katholisiere!
It is quite impossible that the human soul and the know
in their sanctuaries located. Besides, I I do nothing about
the Catholic faith written about the Muslim but entire
volumes. The Accusation that I islamitisiere appear
so much justified, than the one that I katholisiere.
Why do you do to me this not? The Madonna of hundreds
of Protestant Painters represented by hundreds of poets and
Protestant, treated even by Goethe. Why do you say of this
not mean that they katholisieren? I have the Catholic
Church for the high-minded hospitality it to me, the
Protestants, for four years, proved to thanked by a single
Ave Maria, which I for Winnetou my poetry. Is that a reason for me
of religious hypocrisy to accuse? Moreover, the Money due!
I repeat: How poor have to these be men, how very poor!
- -

I must ascertaining numerical, that these four years of undisturbed
solitude and focused collection of me have very, very
far brought forward. I was every book available, I for my studies
needed. I put my work plans completed and began with the execution
thereof. I wrote Manuscripts. As soon as one was finished,
I sent it home. The parents then mediated between me and
the publishers. I wrote this not directly because they now should
not learn that the author of the story telling they printed,
was a prisoner. And one learned it but because he came
personally to the parents. This was the much later
to be mentioned Kolportagebuchhaendler HG Muenchmeyer in
Dresden. He was Zimmergesell been had with dance music
in the village, the Horn was blown flaps and then become colporteur.

    In In this capacity he came to Hohenstein-Ernsttal
and learned in a neighboring village a servant Who know
he got married. The bound him to the Area. He was as well
known and also learned from me. What he heard seemed
to Great, it fits extremely for his trash. He went to
my father and became familiar with him. So he got my Manuscripts
in the hand. He read it. Some of it was him too high. Others
liked him but so that it it as it said, delighted. He asked
to be allowed to print it, and got permission to do
so. He immediately wanted to pay and put the money on the table.
Father but did not take it. He pushed it back and told him
it personally to me admit when I was laid off. Then went
Muenchmeyer very much like one. He assured that I am the man
the use he could, he would tell me, in my Return home
to visit and discuss all details by me.

This story and I ask for preliminarily determined. It is
for many to know the following of great importance, Muenchmeyer
that not only my past, as in truth was, just knew,
but also all had heard what had been added anything.

As
for my mental state, I had Rest, complete rest. In the first
four weeks of last four years, it still happened that
the dark figures tortured me emotionally and cries
were harassed, and he had but little by aufgehoert and
finally became still, without again rain. When I thought
about this, without having to to get psychological astray,
I came to realize that these structures have only as long
as influence how is in the relevant views. But if one has
the latter are overcome, then the terrors disappear. And this
seemed the right thing to do, and the Catechist was of the
same opinion. I had him my inner temptations told
nothing, as I have in purely personal and family matters
at all never a person to do my confidant.

    But sometimes was but a word, indicate which should not but
suggested. He was attentive. Once During the conversation
I came out of my dark figures to speak and their agonizing
voices; but I pretended as if I were speaking of an other,
not He smiled to myself. He knew very well whom I said.

    The next day he brought me a little Book whose title
was "The so-called cleavage of the human inside, a picture
of human cleavage at all. "I read it. How sweet it was!
What Enlightenment there was! Now I knew at once what I was
with me! Now they want to come back, this Cast, I had to fear
no more! Later, when he took the book again, I thanked him,
According joy that I felt about it. Then asked
he me:

"Not true, you were there yourself, which you told? "

"Yes," I replied.

"Have you understood everything?"

"No, not yet."

"This here?"

He opened a job; was there to read, "Who on difficult challenges
to suffer, hats in front of him the point where he was born.
He never lived longer time there. And above all things, even
if he married, so he invites his wife not even from this
Places! "

"No, I do not understand yet," I admitted.

"Me neither," he admitted. "But think ABOUT IT! "

This reflection, which he advised me led me At no results.
It was a purely psychological question. As is the experience
of knowing the only Teacher, and this experience I had to do before
I realized I deeply regret! - - -

VI. In the trash.

    

    It had risen.

    I returned home.

    It was a stormy spring day, it rained and snowing.

    Father came to meet me.

    He found it this time not see me to accusations
. Make He had read my manuscripts and learned my letters almost
by heart. He knew Now that he had to fear in relation
to my future any more. He arrived at this Opportunity to
speak on Muenchmeyer and that this would come to me.

    "This will be in vain," I said.

    "This man wants pulp novels, exciting love stories,
more nothing.

    Such things I do not write. He believes likely that
I'm so dishonorable to him from what you about me babbling
to patch up a dime novel, However, the bring him much money, but
me would destroy it. Because he is wrong. I have very
different Purposes and goals! "

                            
                    Father agreed with me.

As we above the city had arrived and they saw ahead of us, he showed to the next village over,
a stand-alone, new house and asked me:

"Do you know that there?"

    "Is not it the place where time was the fire?"

"Yes. A few days after you were gone, there was out who
set fire to it. It was with the perpetrator proceed very rapidly.
He's still more in the penitentiary come than you mother will
tell you. "

"Oh no, I want to know nothing, absolutely nothing.

    Please them that they should remain silent over
here! "

That same evening I learned that the boasted local constable in the
pub so that was how sharp he would receive me, and supervise, two
years long, and he let me no day in the eyes!

    He was already the next morning and threw himself in such a your
chest, you really never in that way treated person can blame them
if he by is recurrent.

    He claimed that two years my To be superior, with whom I have reported
to me daily.

    Then he pulled the relevant paragraphs of the laws
Bag to me a lecture about my obligations to . Keep I said
nothing, but opened the door and gave him a hint to depart.
When he's not once did, I did.

    I went to the mayor and made short work. I called for
a foreign passport, and as I was told that this is not so easily
Another possible case, I was already on the next day without Pass
on the road.

    

In the course I sat in an otherwise empty compartment.
It went over the border. Since it began suddenly in me
According to rage and rage, to scream and shout like
a village inn, where the farm laborers hit with chair
legs together. Hundreds of Figures and hundreds of votes
were there, of which it happened. Earlier it would have
horrified me, but today let it me cold. This Sumpfreminiszenzen
who do not wanted to give up their power had lost about
me. I did not respond, and it should gradually all by
itself be closed.

Where this trip went and how it was, should the second volume
report. Meanwhile Muenchmeyer came to to ask me. I was already
gone. Since he paid the fee and went home empty-thing again.
Approximately nine months later he reappeared, and Although
not alone, but with his brother.

    This time He took me home because I was back to my
"Geographic sermons to write and print to . Give His brother
was a tailor and was then also become colporteur. The business
has been good gone, even exceptionally well, but it was
now in Danger of collapse suddenly. It took a savior,
and I should be, just me! The was beyond me, because I
have never with Muenchmeyer had to do something, also had
nothing to do with him wanted to do and neither him nor
knew his situation. He explained to me. He was a clever
calculation, very eloquent man, and his brother, seconded
him in such admirable way that I am neither short hand dismissed,
but she let say.

    But when the had done, I was - - - captured, although
I never thought possible, that I ever the "Dime" to enter
into any business relationship can.

Muenchmeyer it was not an insignificant Printing with setter
room, stereotyping, etc. do. What he published, however,
was the lowest trash. He spoke of a so-called "black
book" with a loud Criminal histories, a so-called "Temple
of Venus," of a gold mine was, and some other For
the same kind works today but act it a weekly paper, which
he titled "The Observers in the same editorial. "Founder and
Editor of this paper is a native of Berlin Writer named
Otto Freytag, a very skilled, energetic, but most established
business dangerous man. This had fallen out with him, was
suddenly gone from the office, have all Manuscripts,
and would now taken a very similar Journal as the "observer
on the same" issue, to make him dead. "If I am not an immediate
get another editor, who this man is about and to take
him understand, I am lost! " Muenchmeyer concluded
his report.

"But how come there just for me?" asked I. "I am neither an
editor nor in any a manner approved! "

    "You can be my concern, I have a lot of heard of them
and, above all, I have your Manuscripts read. I know of. You're
the one I need! "

"But I have some other things before, and Trash no one will
take me! "

"Because you do not know. But you can also Make good
with her. What did you do? "

I told him my plans. Then he caught fire; He was enthusiastic
about it. He was one of those people the rave like the heights,
but from a Low life.

"This is excellent, most excellent!" he cried from. "And you
can reach me at all, at the best and fastest for me!
"

"Why?"

    "They give these things to me in push and this Freytag
and his new leaf so dead! "

    "That would be convenient. But if your me , An observer
in the same 'do not like? I know him yes no. "

"So we let him go, and a founding new leaf in its place!

    "

    "What kind of a?"

    "Just the way you wish, as for your purposes watch
out! "

I confess that he has me by the promise more than half won.

    The sound in relation to my Plans almost like a gift
from heaven! He added promises further added, by which
he was easy for me made to respond to his wishes.

    For this purpose, were my own considerations.

    I was here quite unexpectedly the splendid opportunity
offered, the printing press, the Schriftsetzerei that stereotype
and all still here know their dependents in a most convenient way.

    This had for me as a writer very high value and
was I probably never offered. The, the content [sic] Muenchmeyer
could pay me was not significant, but I also went to so that such
fees, I really did not need it.

    And I was not bound. He offered me three months notice
of termination at.

    So I could go every three months if it I did not like.

    

    "Try it! Say yes!" he asked me by me a month's salary hinzaehlte.

"When
I would have to compete?" I asked.

"The day after tomorrow. It. Hurries This Freytag must come
ahead of us. "

"But you know that I am punished!"

"I know everything. It does not matter."

"And I'm even under police supervision!"

"I did not know, but even that does nothing. Degree because
this is so, you are to me the Beloved one! Beat on board!
"

That sounded gradezu touching.

    He held my hand out, father and mother nodded
at me pleadingly, as was I gave him a handshake, and I was - - -
Editor.

    

    
When I came to Dresden, I first took me a furnished lodging, but I
put very Muenchmeyer soon as the editorial home to several rooms Disposal,
and I bought myself to the furniture.

    I found the publisher quite extraordinarily ugly.

    The "Black Book" was really disgusting criminal.

    The "Temple of Venus" proved to be a hideous, to the lowest Lust
calculated liability company with dirty jokes Descriptions and terribly
bare, exciting Illustrations.

    Added was a medicine cabinet for Sexually transmitted
diseases, which have been earned on sums that seemed
almost unbelievable.

    This shameless Issues and images were lying everywhere.
The workers and Workers took home with them. The four
daughters Muenchmeyers, then still in school and childhood, read
and played with them, and as I woman Muenchmeyer warned of the consequences,
she replied: "What think!

    This is our best book! This brings a Mass of money,
"I decided that this must either otherwise, or I would again
without notice . Go away As for the "observer
on the Elbe" is concerned, the editors had taken over me,
so I saw the same with the first glance, that he has to
disappear. Muenchmeyer had the sense to admit it. We let
the paper received, and I founded his three other its
place, namely, two for respectable Unterhaltungsblaetter,
which "German family journal" and "leisure hours" were
entitled, and a skilled and entertaining Journal for
mining, metallurgical and iron worker, I Headline "bay and cabin"
was. These three leaves were calculated to, especially the
spiritual needs satisfy the reader and sunshine in
their homes and to bring the heart. In reference to "bay
and Cabin traveled "I Germany and Austria to the large
companies such as Hartmann, Krupp, Borsig, etc.
for interested, and since such time sheets need was, I
achieved success, about which I was surprised himself. Our
leaves increased so that Muenchmeyer me for Christmas
gave a piano. His competitor was Freytag every effort
had initial success but also had to his hand but let go
after a short time.

In this period of development was that Muenchmeyer Saxonian authorities
because of the spread of the "Venus Temple" was displayed.
 With his
free consent the admiral retained this nobleman as a pledge, and then although, in consequence
of the king's bad faith, he resolved not to land himself, he sent many of his officers, who
were conducted with great honor to the large and fair house inhabited by the king, where at
least a thousand people were gathered.

The king was seated in a great chair of state, and many compliments were exchanged between
him and the English. The king was now attired in his full state; having, from the waist to
the ground, a robe of cloth of gold; with many rings of plated gold on his head, making a show
something like a crown. On his neck he had a chain of perfect gold, the links very large. On
his left hand were a diamond, an emerald, a ruby, and a turquoise, and on his right hand many
beautiful gems. Thus it will be seen that the king of these islands was a potentate of no mean
grandeur.

Most of the furniture and decorations of the court were obtained from the Portuguese, during
the time that they inhabited the island. Had they not followed the tyrannous ways of their
people, they might have remained there in fair comfort; but, desiring to obtain the entire
authority, they had killed the late king. This cruelty, however, had brought about a different
end to that which they had expected; for the people, headed by the king's eldest son, had risen
against them in great force, had killed many, and had driven the rest from the island; placing
the king's son upon the throne, who had become the deadly enemy of the Portuguese, and was
now preparing an expedition to drive them from Tidore.

The religion of these people was that of the Mussulmans, and the rigor with which they fasted--it
being, at the time of the English visit, one of their festivals--greatly astonished those who
saw them; for, during the whole time, they would eat nothing between morning and night; but
the appetite with which they devoured many meals, throughout the night, almost equally astonished
the British.

While the Golden Hind lay in the harbor of Ternate, they received a visit from a Chinese gentlemen
of high station, and who was assuredly the first Chinaman who ever came in contact with one
of our race. His reason for being at the Moluccas was singular. They were forced yet! Until
they finally realized that it is impossible in this go way
and in this way, if they would not completely perish!
She turned to me and asked for forgiveness. Pity me the
poor, seduced woman. I took the complaint and process
them against the insult back. And now I learned to what
a clever way of it Lebius hinuebergelockt from its safe,
quiet position on him been, was destroyed by economic
and morally exploited respectively. played against me be. He
says in his letter, which the Subject of this
criminal case is:

| "On the advice of my lawyer I | I, however, in view of my | judicial
| | agreement with May demanded that Ms Emma | | first part of their
Jewelry added, | | make "| because the better an impression to the
outside |.

|

So because I agreed with him in court, because he told me his insults has been praying in court
and because he has promised in court for me now always leave alone,
so concerned with "imHinblick it, "the woman now had to put their
jewels, so you call me as the villain through which they had been
driven into such misery!

    As called such behavior? And having it in this way to
their whole, previous income and has brought to her jewelry,
he writes in this his letter: "I have by my counsel Lord
Privy Ueberhorst can prepare steps umwiederzumeinemGeldezukommen
"Is here at all an expression through which one would
be able to Lebiussche thinking and acting
to characterize fatigue?

This poor, completely by Lebius in almost every respect
solid woman is not the first or single divorced woman, which
he took possession to achieve its purposes. Rather,
it is a very special tactical habit of it, divorced play
off women against their husbands. The
most striking Example of this is the case, "Max
Dittrich is. As I briefly mention it here, I ask for all
particular attention is because he does it for the Assessment of
the Lord Lebius vonallergroesster Wichtigkeitist.

    

I had known, as this gentleman's visit when I made the editor
and Militaerschriftsteller Max Dittrich as witnesses
to load, from distrust and caution against any subsequent
lies and Shenanigans of the Lord Lebius by a most valid be
protected witnesses. Mr. Dittrich was then from
beginning to end there and had every heard from my
spoken word. Such witness to have Mr. Lebius
with time was always painful, always dangerous.
He decided to keep him eidesunwuerdigzumachen, so exactly the same
thing he has done for me too undnochheutetut.

    It is that, as will later be einpersoenlicher Trick
of him, he holds fuerunfehlbar - - - eidesunwuerdig make!

He
followed this with the principle, while giving us the
recited his visit with us: Every person, every Police
officer and judge, official at the tow is rocking, has a
debt to himself, he must hide. You have to discover
and bring the indie newspaper; then one ruler and
"tuechtigerKerl" known. For instance, Mr Lebius did here.
The first woman Max Dittrich had died, by the
second wife He had a divorce, now he was as a result of Shipwreck
in which he violated only the dangerous Escaped
death, severe nerve became ill. This was a very
interesting material from which at any rate let do something!
Mr. Lebius went out, therefore, to according to the
"tow the distaff," after the "secret" to find guilt and sin.

    He researched everywhere, in writing, orally, in person.
He presented himself everywhere, where he thought he
could learn something. He spared not to even go to Dittrich
relatives. He slipped to Dittrich old sister in law
to Dittrich Nephew and niece, even Dittrich's second
wife, the remarried and was happier, quieter marriage
lived. He conducted research in without being suspected,
why and why. They answered with confidence and unbiased.
But when he suddenly to their horror that falling words "court"
and "Eid" left because they felt the claws, in which
they had fallen. They had nothing Evil can say and
begged to let them out of it. He promised them. Particularly
horrified by the prospect of be involved in this Lebiusschen
dirt, Dittrich was second wife. Her current husband
was a dear, good, but in reference to the "honor" very
rigorous thinking, relentless master. His wife such matter to Lebius'
page, that would necessarily the most serious consequences
for him and her been! She therefore asked Lebius she's
not using it to entangled, and he did not hesitate, she up
and to promise sacred. Then he went quickly and brought
in paragraph 12 of his "voice of Saxony" a report, which
I take only a few points that not even the worst, namely:

"Max
Dittrich from his first wife had no Children,
but two of his step-daughter before this the 16th Age reached.
"

"His wife grieved over the excesses her husband to death. "

"Although his second wife was very tolerant, operating
Dittrich it finally so bad that a divorce was inevitable.
"

"With the 16 year old living at home with Niece of
his wife, he maintained a perennial Relationship. "

"Then
he began a relationship with a young Girls. "

"His wife had him by a detective Bureau . Observe "

"During the divorce process lived Dittrich together with
his bride, and had his Daughter with him. "

    

"Now he is due to severe syphilitic Nervous semi-invalid suffering,
"etc.

One can imagine the horror of relatives, when they read it
and then ordered to appear before court was because Max Dittrich Of
course all Mr Lebius sued!

    The niece had in the house be heard, she was sick.
The divorced woman Dittrich was in fear of their hearts to the judge
and told him frankly that this horrible thing a absolute mayhem for
the happiness of her present marriage is; they'll probably survive
the difficult.

    This excellent Lord had not only the law in the head,
but to also a human heart in his chest and did the evidence
in appropriate humane manner.

    

Even assuming that the specified Lebius All points were based on truth,
then there is surely for any reasonably educated and not only brutalized
People close to the question whether the publication of such Things
legally, respectively. press is morally permissible.

    I am convinced that everyone except Lebius this
Question with a "No!" will answer.

    The for the characterization of this gentleman
would in any case enough, but is not seen nothing yet, because if
you Opportunity, finds the document Dittrich contra Lebius turn over,
so you can see at the end of the same Lord Lebius still in a very
different way illuminated.

    He admitted as a ground that his slanders against Max
Dittrich | Were not true, | and agrees to pay
the costs to !

    Bear I think everything you do not need to know
to know this man now.

    
If someone pops out from the bush and the other murdered, or
whether someone from the columns of his Rowdy blade
pops out down the people who so often he pleases, which
is from the criminal laws of the Future well-regarded
quite differently and quite different be treated as
today. But there are, Thank God, even now, spiritual and
ethical humanity Instances that the homicide of a human soul
hold for at least as punishable as the Murder of a Menschenkoerpers.

On
27 March 1905 had the aforementioned Lebius EXPORTED Accusations
in his "Saxons vote" against Max Dittrich thrown, and
on 18 November to he explained in the second chamber of the royal
District Court of Dresden for the record:

| "I declare that I am
against the | | Privatklaeger in the Sachsen voice"

    27 March | | 1905 collected, offensive statements
| |! ! ! to be untrue! ! ! | | Hereby take back and regret
about | | made the remarks in the "voice of Saxony" | | expressions
and therefore Privatklaeger | |! ! ! beg your pardon! ! !
|

When, some years later in Berlin Lebius Armed and
processes with the "Forward" began, was of the Militaerschriftsteller
Dittrich as witnesses against him. Lebius immediately resorted
to his well-known Trick, witnesses make inoperable by
the press. He published the exact same thing again, which
he then Dittrich published over and then before the
Dresden District Court |! ! ! to be untrue! ! ! | had taken
back with the
request for forgiveness. Dittrich was forced therefore,
it again sue and such withdrawal and request for Sorry
to point. What did Lebius? He said in His Royal to the
District Court Charlottenburg addressed letter of 24 December 1909,
he then those that apology and confession of Falsity of his statements
only | "Reasons of an economic nature"

    | have stored. His conditions were at that time
so enjoyments was that he was not to the judicial appointments
I can travel to Dresden. He therefore is to The following
provides the moral portrait of himself:

| Lebius slandered the Militaerschriftsteller | | Dittrich
in 1905 in his Dresden Leaf. |

| Lebius 1905 explained before the Dresden | |
district court that these slanders lie | be, and asks for forgiveness
|.

    |

| Lebius brings in 1909 in his Berlin leaf | | those designated
by him as lies | | Slander as truth again. |

| Lebius declared in 1909 in his statement to | | the Charlottenburg district court that lied
to the district court of Dresden | he then |. |

And why are these rats king of lies in court! And how is it possible that a person, but the Honor
and Schamgefuehl must possess to be in court Liar explain and then,
when even this explanation Luege be described?

    He gives us the answer to this question: He was
in difficult situation; |! ! ! he had no money! ! !
|

So if Lebius has no money, so this is a for it fully complied
with basic, lessons round Gerichtsaemterzubeluegenundsichalseinen
In addition, character points, demkeinvorsichtiger More About
Human Faith
Can!

I could go on for hours, in this way to tell of Lebius.
For my present purposes, however, Suffice to what
I said to this point. I have the falsehoods which Lebius
spread about me, noted, not all, but only the most obvious.
It are now more than five hundred, which I by the court
can prove. He has me in just the last three Weeks
four libel sent, although I 'm not involved
in this very offensive. This is called one execution!
And he shall, as already mentioned, the greatest emphasis,
always ensure that I follow him, but he is not me. On its
many and have very nasty article in the years 1904 and 1905
I only once to the prosecutor and two Help sought in court.

I have then to all his further attacks remained silent until he through me the alleged Kahl-brochure
forced to defend myself, be because I "vordenRichternkaputgemacht"
should.

And even as I have forgiven him, I have compared to him, had violated his promise to me leave
now in peace, withdrew my complaint, although the concerned judge
said that Lebius suffer a severe punishment would be, if the Negotiating
come.

See the court documents as 20 254 08/34, drawn Schenk, Nauwerk. I take it that Lebius despite
his legal promise to me in future leave alone, my wife divorced me
against seduced, exploited, their income and their Jewelry robbed
undsiefastandenBettelstab brought.

It was from him court Action against leads me to almost go mad must explain. And he had the courage,
in the first Instance of this process to insult claim | "That he
had represented their interests and | | So the protection of Section
193 stresses must!

    |

Never has a larger untruth spoken been than this! Lebius has
the temptation of Mrs. Pollmer only his own private interests
and process pursued dieInteressendieserarmenFrau abergeradezumitFuessengetreten.
It is outrageous ensure that it also has the protection
of Section 193 required!

    
It is repeatedly asserted by him in the newspapers
was that he was a man, "over the corpses
goes. "My wife has divorced instead of" man
" even a different, extremely bad word used without that he dared
them to court about it .

    Sue Whether this allegation is true or whether he Many
said the show could I, with many examples; I will only get
one: After the Blaetterberichten completely corrupted
Charlottenburg Hearing of 12 April this year brought the
"Boston American" in Boston, Massachusetts, following received
by him from Berlin despatch note:

"Author of religious books, a bandit Berlin. - - - Mr. Charles
May, the millionaire, philanthropist, Author pious books
and a great personality Germany, was now considered
by a jury of Perpetrators of many serious crimes in the
mountainous area of southern Saxony, where he was before
40 years Raeuberbande led, branded. Maybrachzusammen undwurdeunterdenSchutzseinerFreundegestellt,
, DasserSelbstmordbegehe umzuverhindern etc. "To contrive
such a monstrous falsehood, to me "to become kaput,"
which is surely over corpses left. Or not? But enough hereby
Lebius about this gentleman. The rest is from the Court, but
not here. To see my readers clearly to leave
is to be stated only that the Muenchmeyersche Lawyer Dr.
Gerlach and his lawyer and that both are mutually exclusive,
the most far-reaching Aid and assistance. I have two very interesting
Muenchmeyersche Champions , Mention in reference to
spiritual significance although neither Gerlach
Lebius yet come, but when devout Catholic Klosterbrueder
among Protestant or even the church-worn dime interested
but make a striking impression.

One of them is the Benedictine monk Ansgar Pöllmann
in Beuron. I have already a Benedictine Father faced
in court. The Bessler was called Willibrord
and described himself as a professor. He published a grave
insult in the "Star of Youth against me. I made the Benedictine
Seckau in Styria as a resident identify traveled
back and let
  him quote from the District Court of Leoben. As it turned out
  that he had no right, lead to a professor.

    He provided the following written apology:

"By me in the documents enclosed Designations of "Professor"
and "Youth writer" on request closer then
determine that I taught at the private high school-college
of the Abbey Seckau and correspondent for the youth magazine
"Star of Youth am, "I hereby declare the truth, I mentioned in the
magazine (1903 Nro 25). contain notes about symptoms of Writer Karl
May and the regret of his court incriminating words formally take
them back.

    

Seckau, 20 October, 1904.

Father Willibrord Bessler OSP "[sic]

And now again a Benedictine priest, I sue must! The abbot
seems like there to be called Ildefons Schober. Is
it perhaps the same? Not in Seckau and not in Beuron, but
otherwise running, The Benedictines have my "Reiseerzaehlungen"
without my knowledge, reprinted in volume until I them
prohibited.

    I do not know how it is possible that a Order
print all my work on your own and and yet offend me
so publicly and disseminate track, respectively. me and my works
in the same night and Spell can explain! I try in
vain to both logical to bring together. For this I Emphasis
could tolerate impossible, of course nothing of yourself!
Moreover, this Beuronese Father the same, the I "want
to shoot a rope around me so that from the Temple
of the German art hinauszupeitschen.
"So, first to print to my books without asking me, and
then they whipped me out! characterized in this
way Father Pöllmann his own order, but in the certainly
more than enough contributions to our literature acquired,
has as one of his relatives that he should be repute in
this way!

Father Pöllmann has in the Catholic magazine "On the waters"
a series of articles against me written, and I have
to this in Vienna's "sanctuary" responded. This brings us
now to actually the other finished, and the audience would
have between him and me to decide. But while I in
my answers Of course, quite as factual and polite as possible, he
is in his articles from the insults almost did not come out,
so that it is a corridor outside the court have to be comfortable.

    And Moreover, his personal and literary relationship
Mr Lebius, the lawyer and the Gerlach Muenchmeyerschen
program me in the newspapers "kaput to make, "noted. He
has denied that Lebius, Gerlach, etc to be in relationship,
it's him But such relationships very easily demonstrated.
Over here is clarity. The fact that he in this has "Kaputmachen"
interfered with the strongest, not even he can deny. His "Water"
article, both in Lebius as well as in Pauline Muenchmeyer
process on the most eager to I used. He is even Lebius as a
witness or "Expert" and is named as such in Berlin have to
testify.

      
  Father Pöllmann followed in relation to our Insult process,
  a tactic that I do not approve can. I have to wonder
  whether it is in this, his tactics is, the reading
  public to mislead. First published from time to time
  by some, ironically condescending sounding notes about
  it that I had failed, my threat to sue him execute.
  And Now it turns out, but this I promise have to be
  kept, in some, anti-minded me Newspapers continually claimed
  that my libel suit now here, now been rejected and there was I had
to bear all the costs.

      This is not fair, perhaps even unworthy.

                            This is to the Zustaendigkeitsfrage
                                    to nothing.

    When I Criminal complaint against Father Pöllmann presented,
I belonged in the district of the District Court of Dresden.
Meanwhile was the district court Kötzschenbroda opened, which
I now am in charge now. So the question is whether the Matter
as a result here or there or elsewhere is negotiated.
Until that is decided, it has to rest. Who else is there
can only be either ignorant or churlish. By costs I do not
know Word.

It is very similar to my libel suit Expeditus against Father
Schmidt in Munich. It was in Dresden and submitted the first
time in Kötzschenbroda negotiated. Again, Zustaendigkeitsfragen
raised been made, but not by me. To me it is very indifferent
be spoken in whatever situation the verdict, because my cause
is just. I have no need to to consider a subtle one,
in whatever situation in which courts and in which case I
win my process or lose. I was not on such secondary matters
to cling, but to the thing itself and its to hold true, the rest
I leave to the Judges.

I find these shenanigans will not interfere, but been beneficial.
You have given me the opportunity to get to know the cards of my
opponents.

    Above all Things it has been found that the two Father
Schmidt and Pöllmann in close relation to the name and
the cause are Muenchmeyer. Your attorney is in connection with
the Muenchmeyerschen and Lebiusschen Lawyer. I will
provide the evidence and then the relationship with the Muenchmeyerschen
Program, me "in all newspapers throughout to make Germany
kaput, "of its own accord. A brief panoramic view of
the current state of to allow things, I close this chapter with
a Article that the "Vienna Monday-Journal on 17 October
of this year brought. It reads:

| Karl May as a writer. | (An appreciation.)

Before us lies an impressive series of volumes that Activity
of an extremely fruitful and successful Writer. At the
same time his vindication. For it is not often the literary
activity of a People of the reason for such abysmal mean and
sneak attack was, as Karl May to Target had. Before we
in a detailed appreciation of such a rich imagination
of a German novel Zier received, we want the despised
even the word to give a defense, which now, after the
successful Trials of his spiteful and malicious adversary
is also a satisfaction. Mr. May writes:

    The whole so-called "Karl May-baiting" is on Falsehoods
built. The first of these falsehoods is I was young and my
writers Reiseerzaehlungen for immature young people have written.
Most The stories are the "German House Treasure" appeared, but
the boys certainly never a newspaper has been. And
later published volumes sees every honest eye immediately,
that they are only of adult mentally People can be
understood. This fall all accusations that I was as misguided
'youth Breaker " making together in himself. If the youth
read my books yet, and very happy, so proves that does not mean
that I have intended for them, but that the young
soul finds in them, her share of others are denied.

A second untruth is that I in this my Reiseerzaehlungen
dizzy. Anyone who claims, certainly has no idea what
a bad testimony he his own intelligence granted. Enough
but the insight a third form of recognizing that all I
tell appointed only with the roots in real life, For
the rest, is aiming for regions not everyday occurrences are.
Any reader who understands me, knows that I countries
and Ethnography, which is still almost only in fairy
tales exist for us as before, and in the realm of absolute reality,
connect.

    If I do what other is a fairy tale still contemplate
as a reality and describe, this can only for ignorant
or malevolent People have a reason to say that I dizzy.

Earlier
it occurred to anyone, in this insulting way to judge about
me. Those who do not concept, said most, that my imagination
a was very extensive.
 This he repeated fourteen
times, signifying that the girls must be shut up in the hut and guarded safely for that time,
after which the nuptials would take place. 

§ 1

Sources.

The privateering as a phenomenon of life is a thing of the past, [57] even if it as a legal institution
still exists to some extent. In none of the great wars since the end of the Napoleonic Era
have been used Kaper. The last Kapereireglements are in the beginning
of the 19th Century been adopted. [58] A development of the customary
international law can therefore 19. Century have hardly taken place,
at least, says the evidence against them. 

That the women in the history of music does not pay, probably with its lack of appropriate professional
activity (in the orchestral music, as conductor, etc.) due to them in continuous contact with
musical theory and musical practice would bring, perhaps actually less talent to do so, because
it is not quite so denied will that is capable of some work area, the female sex is less than the
male, for example, is likely to in surgery certainly be the case. But because any Species is
not very "same" as another has talent, but it is certainly not inferior, provided they are on
some other areas is useful. Mutual indispensable, irreplaceable the two sexes for each other due
to their equivalence already! A spiritual hierarchy of all - it seems to me - only from individual to individual
application, not even among peoples and tribes may be the comparative sentence by release en masse,
let alone where it is the huge half of humanity, with a some painfully dragged border posts in
a separate section value Lock to want to Folly is a ridiculous, because every moment millions
of individuals from the mere Genus sphere jump out and over these limits.

A "genuine female plant" to see is that many women lie and cheat on their husbands and know
only narrow economic interests, seems a delusion that is surprising
only in the Confession of the author, that "every great man at times
suffer from fixed ideas," their should have keys.

Is it "a" law of nature that many women lie and deceive, or do it not perhaps because they are
patronized and economically dependent on forever? And if they are only interested in trivialities, is likely
not a reason have that larger interests to approach at all in their miserable existence in her
house? And men in similarly constricted social sphere have about a larger horizon? And it must
remain so, invariably - "a" law of nature?
 He
will, no doubt, have spent a day or two in looking for us; but finding no signs of us, in the
island to which we were sent, or in the other lying in sight to the southward, he will have
shaped his way for the Cape.

"The first difficulty, then, is to procure sufficient provisions. Here, my home town, touching was I called as
a witness to the local District Court and learned that
Freytag, author, and Muenchmeyer, the Publishers of the "Venus
Temple" because of this Schandwerkes had recently been
convicted. This one had me concealed. How glad I was
not in the district this Temple of Venus have hineingeheiratet!

After
returning from the just-mentioned travel I had occasion to one of
my sisters, who in Hohenstein was married to visit.

    I lived a few days with her and got to know as a
girl, which made a very strange impression on me. I said
at the beginning of my book, that I have the strange
peculiarity of the people more mentally than physically
in front of me. Whether the an advantage or a disadvantage,
I can not decide, but this comes as a result of my own
nature it not rare that I an ugly person beautiful and a nice
find ugly. The most interesting character me are those
whose mental enigmatic figure to me appears, whose
contours I can not detect or their I do not understand color.
These people drag me to, even if they seem repulsive, I can
not for it. And with the girls, of which I speak here had
yet another, very odd explanation. Meaning, when I, fourteen
years old, in Proseminarist Waldenburg was a November day I
went from there after Ernstthal to the parents to pick up
my laundry. On the way back I came across the Hohenstein
market. As was sung. The Carolers stood before a Home. It
was as a corpse to be buried should. I knew the house. Below,
there lived a Mehlhaendler and one of the top-arrived
fremdher personality, you soon soon as a barber, as a
field Scheer [sic], surgeon physician or designated. He
shaved not everyone, and it was known that he was far more
than that being Name was Pollmer. He had one daughter,
one for the most beautiful girl of the two cities
was, knew that I do. This should now be buried. So I stayed
stand. Two women, who listen and watch well wanted to
put behind me. A third factor was which was from the village,
they asked what that for a Corpse was.

"Pollmer daughter," replied one of the first two Women.

"Oh!
The dental doctor's? What is it who died? "

"On her own child. It would be better this would be
dead, she still lived. On such a child to which the mother
dies, can never rest blessing, the Everyone brings
their undoing.

    "

    "What's the father?"

    "The? It's no!"

"Dear God, not that? Because it would be mitbegraben
certainly better, the nickel could equal be!

    "

    

    Now heard on the song. They brought the coffin
out. The funeral procession was forming. Up there at the
open Window of the living room appeared a female person which was
carrying something in their arms.

    That was the child, the "nickel", who had killed his
own mother and Everyone brought disaster! I understood all
of the nothing. What do we know of one boy vierzehnjaehriger
the Prejudices of this kind of people! But when the
Funeral to me was over, and I my way continued, I took something
that I later often employed, namely the question of why
the right a child who has no father and to blame the death
of his mother, it must take heed. I believed in because
of my youth and inexperience what the old women had
said, and felt a Kind of horror, so many times that I
Leichenbegraebnis and the most unhappy "Nickel" thought.
As soon as I later by the Hohenstein market came, I
looked involuntarily to that window in the Upper room
of the Mehlhaendlerhauses. At the end of a Number of
years, I once saw a child's head, a girl out looking. I stayed
for a Moment want to look at the face. It was insignificant
and did not have anything Soothing something terrible in
itself. Later I met Once in the street a strongly built,
tall Man that is a twelve year old girl approximately led
by the hand. That was the old Pollmer with his "nickel".
The old man looked very serious, the child but quite cheerful
and friendly off, it had no nothing about her, which
revealed "that his mother in him had died. "Then I have
still different Times seen as a budding teenage girl,
pale, long- shot up, very narrow, uninteresting, a completely
indifferent nature. I never would have thought that this girl
ever in my life though play only minor roles. And
now I now stayed with my sister, I have been at one
of her Friends, some young girls presented in which
is also a "Fraeulein Pollmer" was. The was the "nickel",
but he looked quite different from earlier. He sat so
quietly and modestly at the table, busied himself very
busy with crochet and said hardly a word. I liked that.
This face blushed slightly. It had a very strange, mysterious
eyes serve. And when a word about the lips was, it sounded cautious,
consider even not like other girls who all grad Sun herausschwatzten
which they would be running on the tongue. This pleased me
very much. I learned that her grandfather, namely Pollmer,
my "Geography of sermons" had read and read it again
and again. I liked even more. It seemed to me from her
friends very different. Behind the figures of the
latter, I saw no trace of spirit and just a touch of
soul. Behind the Pollmer but was psychological country, whether
high or Netherlands, from desert or fertility, could
I not differ, but the country was there, I saw clear
and there was a desire in me, this country to get to know.
The fact that it comes from a wealthy or even distinguished
family came, I could not prevent, and even I was
only a poor Weber's son and actually much less than that

On the next day, her grandfather came to me. You had told
him about me and in him the desire awakened me after
reading my "sermons" now to get to know personally. It seemed
to me be satisfied, because he asked me now to visit
him. I did. It developed a safety Traffic between us,
then, when I visit my had finished and went back to
Dresden, from transformed into a personal one written. Pollmer
but did not write much. The letters I got were from
the hand of his granddaughter. Who would have ever thought
that I had with the "nickel", the one "Only brings disaster,"
would enter into correspondence!

Your letters made for very good Impression.

    She said because of my "beautiful, all-important
profession, "by my" glorious tasks "of my "noble
goals and ideals." It quoted authorities from my "Geography
of sermons," and established Thought of the excellence
of surprised me. Welch an assessment for women writers!
Although there was I sometimes seems as if only a male
author, and a very educated to write such letters can,
but it was not possible for me to such a Fraud to keep
capable. My sister wrote me too. They flowed from praise
"Fraeulein Pollmer" over and invited me for a Christmas
holiday, they return to . Visit I did. I forgot that
the degree Christmas time I have seldom friendly, and that
I propose to the point where I was born, 've been warned.

    This decided over Christmas me if I am not now engaged.
I had plenty of time. This time I spent mostly
on the road until I stopped again at Pentecost in the home,
for the spiritual study of "Nickels", now "my Nickel should
be "to continue further. But there was not to this
sequel, but equal to a Decision, as otherwise only be on stage
maintains. Namely as Pollmer learned that I back However,
he visited me and invited me to the Lunch. He was long a widower,
and his family consisted only of himself and his granddaughter.
I knew that he is everywhere, maximum praise uttered about
me, and that my criminal record prevented him absolutely
not, me for a good, trustworthy people to hold. But I also
knew that he his grandchild for the most beautiful and valuable
nature of the whole Neighborhood and that he was very
thought Fairy tale had in relation to the marriage. He was believe
that such brilliant Beauts the largest Wealth of their
family would be rich as possible and only allowed to
be married and elegant. Of course, very this was not his opinion
without influence have remained on his granddaughter, noted
the I very well, and perhaps it was high time to this
influence to escape. I answered a question when he
asked me today to have lunch with him:

"With pleasure, but only on condition that I not only for
your sake, but also to your daughter sake may come. "

He listened in surprise.

"For Emma's sake?" he asked.

"Yes."

"What do you mean? Do you have designs on them? Do you
want to get married about? "

"Certainly."

"Good gracious! Which I know not a word that is but probably only
your intention! What does it because to that?
"

"She agreed."

    Then he jumped up from his chair, was deep red in the
face and exclaimed:

    "This is nothing, nothing, nothing, my daughter is not born, and not
brought up that they flays himself with a poor devil through life!

    Can get other men.

    Which is to me no Married writer who, if all goes well, only his
fame and only the hunger alive!

    "

    "Think about it with my criminal record?"

    I asked. "I would accept!"

"Nonsense!

    That does not bother me.

    Are underway Hundreds of thousands of freedom
around that in the Belong in prison!

    No, it is not. I completely other reasons. You got
my daughter! "

He called the very loud.

"Oho!" I answered.

    
"Oho?" There is no Oho, I repeat You get my daughter!

    "

He stamped each of these words to make an impression to strengthen,
with his walking stick on the ground.

    It itched me literally in hand, to him on the lay shoulder and tell
him, laughing: "Well, keep as Click Here!

    "But on the other hand reared his father Inheritance in me, the tough,
reckless fury, the never does the right thing.

    I rushed now also:

    "If I do not get it, I take it with me!"

"Try that!"

"I will not only try, but I will do it, do it! "

Then he laughed.

    

    "They will not dare to me.

    I will not stand me from now on every visit! "

    "Of course all by itself, but I say You in advance: They are his time
to personally I come and ask me to visit.

    Now But good-bye! "

    "I ask you? Never, never, never!"

He left. But I wrote three lines and sent them to his
daughter.

    The were: "Choose between me and your grandfather, Do you choose
him to remain so; If you choose me, come immediately to Dresden!

    "Then I went away. They chose me, she came. She left
the one who had raised her and whose only asset they was.
That was flattering. I felt victorious. I did it to
a pastor's widow, the two adults, highly educated daughters
owned. By handling these ladies, it was possible for her
to all she not yet possessed, playing to learn. From there
was they lead opportunity, an independent economic to be
able to. Also, I worked with good, indeed very good success.
I became aware and involved very decent Fees. I had
with my "Reiseerzaehlungen" started immediately in the
Paris and Tours also published in French. Word got around,
which impressed even the "old Pollmer. He heard from experts
that I was on the point, a wealthy, perhaps even to be
a rich man. Since he wrote to his daughter. He forgave her,
that she had to leave because of me, and asked them
to to come to Hohenstein to visit him, but me
bring. She fulfilled this wish, and I accompanied them.
But I did not go to him, but after Ernstthal to my parents.
He sent for me, and I but replied that he knew very
well what I had predicted have. If he wanted me with him, would
have to He personally come to invite me. And he came!

I felt again as the winner. How foolish from me! Here
I had not, but only the consideration won, I probably a
fortune would bring, and there was even a risk for me, that
this consideration not only made by the grandfather had
been. Besides, he asked her to our Marriage with him to
stay in Hohenstein. I had do not mind giving up
my lodging in Dresden, to live with his parents in Ernsttal.

    It was then a time very peculiar internal and external
Developments for me. I wrote and made trips. swept back from
one of these trips, I learned little from the coupe rose
that last night the "old Pollmer" had died, and the blow
had struck him. I hurried to his apartment. I had been too
much said. He was not dead, he was still alive, but
he could neither speak nor move. His grandson was sitting
lying sideways in a room with a sounding Employment.
She had searched for his money and found it. There was
not much, I do not think so two hundred marks. I
pulled them away to the sick across. He recognized me and
wanted to talk, it brought but only an inarticulate babble.
From his Said, looks a monstrous fear. Then came the attending
Doctor. He had the same early in the morning studied
did so again and gave us the decision, that all
hope was vain. When he moved away had slipped the daughter
of dying before me down and asked me not to leave, yes.
I promised it to her and had kept its word. I even done
even more. I have fulfilled their desire in to remain living
Hohenstein. We rented a Upper floor of the market
and that since infinitely happy can live, if we are allotted
such a lucky would have been.

I wrote a few years for Blows in Regensburg, in his "German
House Treasure" my "Reiseerzaehlungen" appeared.
The company Pustet is a Catholic and the "German House Treasure"
a Catholic family magazine. But this confessional Component
me most was indifferent. The reason why I have
remained loyal to this company Hochanstaendig I was
not a religious but a purely business. Commerce Pustet let
me in after only the second, short story by his editor
Vincent Mueller announce that he was ready, all my acquire
manuscripts and they me to no other Published send. And he would
pay immediately. For long Manuscripts that I should send
him gradually go he was a very happy part-payments, so many pages,
so much Money!

    There will seldom a writer, the such an offer
is made. I went with joy on the matter. About twenty years
is the fee if I sent the manuscript to the post office
today, just arrived the day after tomorrow. I remember
none Males only that it would come later. And Never has
it in relation to the fee only the slightest difference between
us given. I never been required to have been agreed what
was and Pustet as I suddenly doubled, he did so from own, free will,
without me on this one RELATING had expressed desire.
Such publishers you remain faithful, even without their
belief and to question their religion.

But even more valuable than this was for punctuality me is
the fact that all my manuscripts ahead and secure, were ordered
to and recorded. This made it possible for me to believe that
the "Reiseerzaehlungen" elaborated plans finally execute.
It I was now the column space needed for a long time also
ensured. By whom these stories I proposing to deliver
later in book form would, was a Question that was left
open for the time being still. There are hostile people
who claim that I only for the money in these Catholic
Publisher approach was made. That is an untruth, for
their Reprehensibility of conscience and I have no words
think. I have all done the opposite of its because I
was accused. I have the "German Treasure House "and his
publisher made sacrifices, Blows of their size the family
has no idea had. Before me lies a letter from Professor
Joseph Kuerschner, famous, famous journalist, with
whom I close friend, was on 3 October 1886 to me wrote.

    It was in at the Spemann Stuttgart Revue "From rock to
the sea" for which I worked. The letter reads
as follows:

"Dear Lord!

They have now again for other Companies provided contributions,
while me with the long-promised still in stitches Liess.
That is not right and I ask It strongly up your promise to
me about to come true. I do not want this opportunity
admitted temporarily without asking you if you do not
would be inclined, even a very gripping, riveting situation
and write rich novel. I would I hnen in this case, a
fee up to a thousand Marks a "rock" sheet can guarantee,
if you something like this letter.

In highest consideration

Your most devoted

Josef Kuerschner.


No resistance was opposed to their landing; but the natives motioned to them that they must
not advance inland, until a messenger returned from the governor. The boys were only too glad
to throw themselves down full length on the soft sand of the beach, and to dry their clothes
in the sun; as for ten days they had been constantly wet, and were stiff and tired.

Presently a native came down at a run, and announced that the governor was at hand. Rising
to their feet, and making the best show they could in their faded garments, the lads soon saw
a Portuguese gentleman, attended by four soldiers, coming down the road between the cliffs.

"Who are you?" he asked in Portuguese, as he reached them, "and whence come you?"

"We are Englishmen," Ned said in Spanish. "We belong to the ship of Captain Drake, which passed
by here in its voyage of circumnavigation. By an accident, we in the canoe were separated from
the ship and left behind. We have come to seek your hospitality, and protection." She could not find the pigeons the same
Satisfaction which we were kids in them. On Most pleasure
it gave us when we observed as the animals love her delicate
clothes altered. Father had bought two pair of very expensive
"blue lines". He brought home and showed it to us. He hoped
at least three dollars to make them. Some Days later,
the blue feathers lay on the ground: they were not real
but was only glued on. The precious "blue lines" turned
out to be quite worthless Whites field. Father holds
a very nice, young, gray Trommeltaeuberich for a good fifteen
dollars Penny. After a short time it became clear that the
Old pigeon was blind. He did not go out of the Stroke: its
value was zero. These and Similar cases had risen. The result
was that Mother still had to sacrifice a third bag
to the pigeons to bring in better trading momentum.
Course the father was also big trouble. He is not celebrated.
He visited all the markets, all Gasthoefe and public houses,
to buy or find buyers. Soon he bought Peas, sweet peas
soon he bought that "given half" he had received. He was
always on the move from a Village to another, from one other
farmers. He constantly brought home cheese, eggs and
butter that we did not really need. He had bought them
expensive to be the peasant women to do commercially
inclined, and was it again only with difficulty and
loss going on. This restless [sic], did not promote useless
life, but ate the Luck of the house, it even ate well and
all the other Tote bags. Mother gave good words, in
vain. You grieved and kept quiet until it would have
been sin, to carry on. Then she made a decision and went the Lord magistrate
Layritz, which in this case much, much more reasonable than
it was against our frogs showed. She presented her position.
She told him that while her husband very, very sweet, but
have before all also on the welfare of their children pay
attention Nazis. They told him that they in addition to
the previously have mentioned bags still have one they her
husband have not yet shown, but concealed. The Lord Municipal
judge should nevertheless have the goodness to her Say
how they can create this money around and their children
secure. She put in front of the bag. He opens it and
counts. There were sixty hard, bright, well-cleaned coins.
Thereupon big surprise! The Lord magistrate Layritz pondered,
then said He said: "My dear wife May, I know you
are. a good woman, and I stand for you. Our Midwife is
old and we need a younger. Go to Dresden, and asks for
your money midwife. I'll give him that! Come to the first
Censorship back, so we set up immediately. Then I give
You my word. Come but with a lower Censorship, so we
can not do. But now You go home and tell your husband
that he should immediately once come to me, I would
have to talk to him! "

That happened. Mother went to Dresden. You came back
to the first censorship, and the Lord Municipal judge Layritz
kept his word, she was employed. During her absence, led
by Father Grandmother the house. This was a difficult
time, a time of suffering for all of us. The smallpox broke
out. We Children were all sick.

    Grandmother was almost over Human power. Father
is. In one of the Sisters had the head in a patient
leaves shapeless lump turns. Forehead, ears, eyes, Nose,
mouth and chin had disappeared completely. The doctor had
by knife cuts to the lips Who seek to infuse the patient
at least a little milk to be able to. She still
lives, is the gayest all of us and never been sick again.
Man still sees the scars, the doctor cut her has,
as he looked for the mouth.

This difficult time was when mother came back, still
not quite over, but you brought me stay Dresden very
fortunate. She had been through their hard work and her quiet,
deeply serious nature of the Goodwill of the two professors,
border guards and Haase purchased them from me, her
wretched, blind and mentally but told so lively boy. She
was been asked to take me to Dresden be treated by the two gentlemen.

    This was done Now now, with quite surprising success.
I got to see and returned, in the rest healthy, home. But
had all this big, big Victims required, though only
for our poor relations large. We had to order all of
the necessary expenditure wants to sell the house,
and what little of the purchase price was our was enough
to barely the essentials to cover. We went for rent. -
-

And now to the person in emotional relationship the deepest
and biggest influence on my development WAY.
While the mother of our mother Hohenstein was born about
us about the "Hohenstein Grandmother was called "came, the mother
Ernsttal from my father and had a question as can
call "Ernst dollars Grandmother." This latter was
a very strange, deeply complex film, and noble, almost I
would like to say, mysterious creatures.

    It was me of youth to a dear heart, to bless puzzles,
from the depths at us and I was able, without ever able to
exploit. Where she got all that? Very simple: It was
soul, nothing but soul, and the modern psychology knows what
does this mean. You was born in the deepest distress
and the deepest sorrow grew up, so she saw everything
with hopeful to for redemption, longing eyes. And who in the
right way to hope and believe can, of Jammer has the earth
moved behind and in front of him Only sunshine and God's
peace be. You was the daughter of bitter poor people,
the mother had early and lost to nourish a father who
does not could still be lying and, until his death many
years tied to an old, leather armchair and was bound.
She nursed him with infinite to To tears sacrifice. Poverty
is allowed it but the cheapest housing. The window of
her room showed only the cemetery, nothing more. She
knew all graves, and she thought for herself and her
father only one way out of their meager death chamber
in the coffin to the cemetery across. She had a Lover,
who said it bravely and honestly with her, but She abdicated.
She just wanted her father all alone , Hearing, and
the good guy was their right. He said nothing, but he
waited and stayed true to it.

Up on the top floor was an old box with even older books.
These were bound in leather Erbstuecke different contents,
both spiritually and secular. It was the legend that in
the Family when she was still well off, clergy, scholars
and had been well-traveled men, to whom this Books still
remembered today. Father and daughter were read, they
both had learned by themselves. In the evening, after
the day's work load and was the Reifroeckchen *)

*) Small Oellaempchen.

    burned, and one of them before reading. During
the breaks had read was discussed. Man had the books close
by twenty times, but started again from scratch, because
then always found new ideas that seemed to be better,
nicer and more correct than the former. Most read was a rather
large and very worn Band, whose title was:

The Hakawati

    Tues

the storytellers in Asia, Africa, Turkia, Arabia, Persia and India sampt EYN attachment Deytung,
explanatio and interpretatio many Vergleychung and figuratively Being

of Christianus Kretzschmann who was from Germania.

                        Printed from Wilhelmus Candidus A. D: MDCV

* * *

This book contained
a lot more meaningful oriental fairy tales, which had previously operated
in any other Maerchensammlung were.

                            Grandmother knew this All fairy tales.

It usually tells literally identical, but in certain cases where they consider it was considered
necessary, they were changes and applications to see from which was
that the spirit of what they told, very well knew and let him act
exactly.

                            Your
                  favorite fairy was the tale
                   of Sitara; It was later
              also mine, because the geography
                     and ethnology of our earth and its inhabitants inside treated ethically.

                             But
                        this only to indicate.

    

The father died following a series of Blutstuerzen. The
care was so strenuous that daughters the death was near,
but she survived. After elapsed time of mourning was May, the
faithful lover, and led them home. Now, finally, finally
really happy! It was a marriage, as God wants. Two children
were born, my father and before him a sister, which later took
a heavy fall and the consequences same crippled. One
can see that it at Visitations, or shall we say in our exams,
was missing. And as you can see that I conceal nothing.
It may not be my intention, the ugly to beautiful .

    Paint But shortly after the birth of second child Christmas
came in that unhappy event, which I already told. The
brave young man crashed into the At night with the
loaves into the deep gorge and snow froze to death. Grandmother
had with her two children the Christmas days of no food and
found out only after long period of anguish, that
terrible and in what As they had lost the man she loves.
On this were years of sadness and then the hard times of
the Napoleonic wars and famine. It was all devastated.
There was never work. Inflation grew; the hunger was raging.
A poor workman came to beg. Grandmother could give him nothing.
They had for themselves and their children even a single Mouthful
of bread. He saw her silent weeping. The pity him. He
went away and came after more than an hour again. He poured
out before her, what he got had pieces of bread, a dozen
potatoes, a Swede, a small, very venerable cheese, a
Duete [sic] meal, Duete a [sic] grains, one slice of sausage
and a tiny Corner mutton. Then he went away quickly
in order to Thanks to their escape. She never saw him
again; One knows but it certainly is and he does not
forgotten. This also sent a different, better Help.
A solitary resident forester, the one be as well off, thinking
how noble knew, was the Wife died. She had a very ample number
Children left behind. He wished to Grandmother Leadership
of its economics. They would have in this Time of need
agreed only too happy, but explained to impossible to be able
to separate from their own children, even if they have
space to accommodate them, would have. The A good
man did not hesitate long. He explained that he was
the same, whether six or eight children Aessen with him; they
all would fill. Let them come, but not without it, but with them.
That was life in the supreme necessity!

The stay in the quiet, secluded forest home did the mother
and the children well. You convalesced and strengthened
through better nutrition. The forester saw Grandmother struggling
to him to be grateful and to gain his satisfaction. She
worked almost about their power, but felt comfortable
with it. He observed the in the Pacific, and rewarded them
in that it to their children in every respect the
same guaranteed respecting what were his. True, he was an
aristocrat and really proud. He ate with his mother alone.
Grandmother was only a servant, but not in the ass Servants,
but with in the nursery. But when he after a long time an insight
into their peculiar Mental life was, he took her in inner
Relationship to. He lightened her load a lot of work, allowed
her to him and his mother-in of the evening read from their
books and enabled it, then to look into his own books.
How much they the tat!

    And he was so good, so useful books!

The children were in a reasonable manner, freedom granted. They
romped around in the woods and got themselves large limbs
and red cheeks. The small May was the youngest and smallest
of them all, but he bravely did with. And he watched,
he learned and saw. He wanted Know everything. He asked after
each item he did not know. Soon, he knew the names of all
plants, of caterpillars and worms, beetles and butterflies
of all, there was in his reach. He sought their Character, their
characteristics and habits to know learn. This curiosity
won him the special Affection of the forester, the cause
could be even to let the boy go with it. I have to , Mention
Later, to make understandable. The nachherige Relapse of
this sun-clear, hopeful Youth in the misery and wretchedness
former could act on the boy but not happy.

In that time was that while Grandmother lunch suddenly from
his chair and fell dead at Ground sank.

    The whole house became excited. The Doctor was sent
for. He noted heartbeat; Grandmother was dead and buried
three days later. But she lived. But she could not
move a limb not even the lips or not closed eyelids. She saw
and heard everything, the crying, the wailing them. She understood
every word spoken was. She saw and heard the carpenter,
who came for her to measure the coffin. When he was done, was
they put into it and placed in a cold chamber. On Funeral
they bahrte on the House floor. The Leichentraeger
came, the priest and the cantor with the carolers. The
family began to bid farewell to the to take note dead.
Imagine the pain! Three days and three nights long she allesmoegliche
Trouble to show by any movement, that she was still
alive - - in vain! Now came the last Moment when the rescue was
still possible. Had they closed the coffin again, there
was no hope more. They later told that they are in their
very nasty very inhuman agony Muehe have been, but at least wiggle
a finger, one after another came to her hand to last to take time.

    So did also the youngest girl the chief forester,
which is especially great to Grandmother had hung. As
the child screamed in terror: "They attacked my hand,
she wants to hold me!" And yes, you could see that
the seemingly dead her hand in slow motion turns opened and
closed. By now one could burials Of course, no longer an issue.
There were other physicians fetched; Grandmother was saved.
But from then on was their Lebensfuehrung more serious
and collected as before. They rarely spoke of what In
that unforgettable three days at the threshold thought
between death and life and felt. It must have been terrible.
But this way is their faith in God, only solid and confidence
him to become even deeper. As they only seemingly dead
had been, she was now supporting the so-called real
death only for appearances and was looking for years
under the right thoughts to explain this and to prove.
Her and that her apparent death, I It is thanks to that I only
ever in life think not of death.


"If we had horses I should say yes," Ned said, "because then, by our speed, we could make up
for our lack of numbers; and, wheeling about, could charge through and through them. But they
are so light and active in comparison to ourselves that we should find it difficult, if not
impossible, to bring them to a hand-to-hand conflict. We have, indeed, the advantage of our
musketoons; but I observed at Ternate that many of the men have muskets, and the sound of firearms
would therefore in no way alarm them. With their bows and arrows they can shoot more steadily
at short distances than we can, and we should be overwhelmed with a cloud of missiles, while
unable to bring to bear the strength of our arms and the keenness of our swords against their
clubs and rough spears. I think that we could hold the house for a year against them; but if
we lost many men in a fight outside, it might go hard with us afterwards."

When morning dawned the garrison beheld, to their dismay, that the Indians had in the night
erected a battery at a quarter of a mile in front of the gate, and that in this they had placed
the culverins left on the cliff, and a score of the small pieces carried in their war canoes. 

    The intention of my characters in some Indian and
partly to dress in Oriental garments, led me Of course, all to
a deep compassion for the fate tribes of the question. The as unstoppable
marked decline of the red race began, I offering jobs for
the time. And about the ingratitude of the West compared
to the East, where it but owes all his material and spiritual
culture, I made all sorts of serious thought. The
Well mankind wants is not peace between the two, longer exploitation
and bloodshed. I took before, this is always on in
my books and to emphasize in my readers that love to the red
race, and for the to give residents of the East, we
as fellow human beings they are guilty. They assured
me today, this not only in few, but hundreds of thousands
to have reached, and I'm not averse this is unbelievable.

And
now the main question: For whom should I Books
have been written? Quite naturally for the people, for all the
people, not only for individual parts of it, for
individual stalls, for individual ages.

    Above all Things not only for the youth! This
Insurance latter I have the largest weight and to lay the sharper
tone. it was my intention been, or will be young writer to do
I would have necessarily to the whole execution all my plans and
the achievement of all my Ideals must renounce for ever.
And to do this, has never occurred to me. Although I had
to youth to think, because it provides not only the time
first stage of the people, it is not only out of which the
people are continually supplemented, but it is feel, in
humanity the old Aufwaertsstreben and has promoted the
easy climb to that of our Pioneers new terrain visible
fastest tempo of . Occupy But they form only a part of the
people, so could the thing I had to be addressed to them,
even be a part of what I have for the people as a whole wrote.
When I say that I write for the people wanted to, I mean,
for people at all, he may be as young or as old as he
is. But not each of my books is for everyone. And yet
again it is for everyone, but gradually for, according
as it develops forward, depending on he gets older and more
experienced, according as it enabled has become, to understand
their content and understand. My books will accompany
him through life. He should, as a boy, as a young man, as
man, as Old man read on each of these ages, what their Height
is similar. All this slowly, with Reflection and deliberation.
Those who devour my books, and that indiscriminately devours
to which it is perhaps pity, but in any case it is even
more sorry for her! Who abused you do not want me or them,
but to pull itself to account. I remember there of
smoking, to eating and drinking. Smoking is a pleasure. Eating
and drinking is essential. But to smoke at any time, eating,
drinking and all that one is offered to smoke and eat,
would not only foolish, but even harmful. A good Read on
to enjoy yourself, but not like a Sharks devour!
Since my books parables only and fairy tales mentioned,
it goes all by itself, that one should think maturely
about them and that they belong only in the hands of people
who not only can think, but also want to think.

As I pondered these thoughts and then my Plans took,
although I had already written Miscellaneous and given to the
public, but it was me not occurred to me as a writer or even
as Artist designate. And every real writer must also be
both an artist after all. I kept not even for a guild apprentice,
but only for a first round groping outside the guild Beginners,
making his first child's attempts. And yet so far extensive,
far more extensive Plans! When I looked over these plans,
so I would have to be really scared to death, for it is
in any case more labor-rich, undisturbed, happy people
live to the real literary substance ahead of me, to cope with an
artistically.

    But I was still not afraid, but I remained very
calm. I asked Me: Do I have to be a writer, and one must for
his artists to be allowed to write such things? Who wants
to and can prohibit someone? Let's do it without a guild,
if it is only right! And we do without it art if it only has
effect and achieved what to achieve it! Whether writers
and artists I would be regarded as "colleagues" that had
to be indifferent to me then. Although, my individual I
proudly owned like any other human being, and Art, I'm as
high as you can imagine. But this, my thoughts were different
than those of other People, especially the colleagues. Artists
to be seemed to me the highest of all the earth, and it lived deep
in my heart, the hot desire to reach this height, and it should
still present in the last hour be my death. Childhood
that evening when I "Faust" was given to see, was still remembered
in my soul, and the resolutions to which I closed on him had
still possessed all the same will and the same Power
over me as before. For the theater review! Leave dramas! Dramas,
is shown in which, as man to rise to rise to and can
from the Earth sorrow to joy of existence, from the slavery
of lower impulses of the soul and purity Seelengroesse.
To write such a thing, you have to Artist be, and indeed
genuine, true artists. But what I only as an art thought
this was something completely different than what is known
today as art criticism, and so I had nothing left but all
my wishes, which is based on, as a writer an artist, and
Although a true and valuable artists be allowed to, for
put aside a long, long years and to remain open, I was
just, namely a unzuenftiger beginners, the not the least Praetentien
[sic] possessed a guild to Comrade be. As I always, since I lived
apart and had been lonely, I was convinced even then,
that my way as a writer to be a lonely and will remain,
as far as my life. What I sought was not seen in everyday
life. What I wanted was something the ordinary person completely
Remote. And what I thought was right, that was most probably
for other people do the wrong thing. In addition, I was a
man punished. So it was me close completely for me to
stay and no more valuable People harass me. In relation
to Art, I was not knowledgeable. Maybe the other right,
I could be wrong. For all cases but was I laid my ideal,
on the evening of my life, after perfect maturity, a
large, beautiful poet's work to To create a symphony concept
of salvation, in the I make bold to draw light in my
darkness, Luckily from my misfortune, joy in my agony This
later for when my death once his first Wink granted. For now,
however, was to learn, too learn and prepare for this work
so that it not fail. Now fairy tales and parables indicate
then at the end of life from them the truth and to draw the reality
and the stage to bring!

But these parables are not short document as such as the beautiful
parables of Christ, but long story telling in which many persons
acting . Occur And their number is large, they should
have a fill whole series of tapes and for the material
that later formed huge task with which I mean will decide
activity. So you can not be carefully EXPORTED paintings,
but only Pen drawings, sketches only, past, etudes, to
which is not the scale should be sought only for art
is pronounced. I can and will and not be a perfect art
Paul Heyse, but my job is, from a height of marble and
Alabasterbruechen the blocks to break later artwork,
whose form most I can suggest, because the government Time
for execution is not available. This Hint I'll give just in
fairy tales, which my tell parables are inserted and
the points form around which the reader's interest concentrated.
The artistic criticism, therefore, need to my Reiseerzaehlungen
to deal not because it does not my purpose is to provide them
an artistic form, or even to give perfection. They
have the simple, Arm or foot rings to settle the Arab women
same that will be nothing more than just only silver Rings.
The value is in the metal, not in work. The painter
who draws sketches volatile, a large painting would prepare
themselves about certain the critics' surprise, the same
in these sketches wanted to create a benchmark that
he then later to the Painting has basket.

    

So much for the plans, which then arose in me and I have
recorded and followed up on the present day. They did
not come suddenly, and they were not in abundance society,
but slowly one by one. And they did not mature piece,
but it took months and years before I from one point
clear to the next become was. I also had time to do
so sufficiently. I I put some kind of accounting of these
plans and execution of, I have lifted me holy and they
still have today. Each thought was in his pieces, and each
part was noted. I even made a list about the title and
the Content of all Reiseerzaehlungen on, I wanted
to get. I'm not there due to these directories gone, but it has benefited
me a lot, and I still live today on subjects that was
already in me emerged. Also, I schriftstellerte busy, and
I wrote Manuscripts to right after my release as
possible much material for publication to have. In short,
I was enthusiasm for my project, and was drawn,
although I was a prisoner, infinitely happy in the prospect a
future which, as I probably could hope, no promised to
be quite ordinary.

The fate seemed to agree with my intentions be. I donated,
as if for me would pay compensation to all the suffering, a rich,
highly welcome Gift: I was pardoned. The management had
said he was I filed a clemency petition, to which I am
a full year was adopted in my sentence. I was in the first
class and received a disciplinary Trust certificate issued,
which provided me the way back into the Life smoothed
and me all police trouble ueberhob.

    The specialist knows what that means!

It was a nice, warm sunny day, when I Institute, left to
struggle with life resistance Armed with my manuscripts. I
had to Written home to my family by my return to notify.
As I was looking forward to the Goodbye. Fear of accusations,
I did not have to have, and this was so long ago already
sorted through letters. I knew I was welcome and that
I was hurting with a single word would. Most enjoyed
I am on Grandmother. As she had to grieved of anguish and have!
And how she would like her to me old, dear faithful
hand stretch out. How delighted would it be about my plans! How
much they would help me to imagine it and as deep as possible
! Exploit I went from Zwickau to Ernsttal, so exactly the same
way that I did as a boy had gone to look for in Spain for
help. It can imagine what thoughts for me on this path
accompanied them. I was on that way home with the Father's
intent in focus, it will never again have the kind to grieve,
but how bad I had kept my word! Should I take today as similar
intentions for their Performance of the impotence of man
no guarantee to can afford? The "fairy tale of Sitara" appeared
in front of me. Maybe I belonged to those to which Souls
when they are born, the devil is waiting to hurl them in
misery, so they get lost?

    Everything notoriously and rebellion does not help, they
are the Doomed. Does this also apply to me?

My thoughts were murky and cloudy, the more I am the
home approached. It was like me there wafted from evil
forebodings. My Merry Confidence seemed to want to leave
me, I had to Bother trying to hold them. From the
Lung height I looked back out over the town. As proposed apply
before my eyes the way that I did so often gone, was in
hot battle with those very nasty inner voices lying to me day and
night on and on, the words "curse of the cutter, the tailor's curse,
the tailor's curse shouted.

    " And what was that? As I thought may conduct, I heard
all heard the same voice in me, quite clearly how at first
only from a distance, but they seemed to come near,
"the Schneider's curse, the tailor's curse, the tailor
Pirates! "If and wanted to repeat that about? I
was terrified when I'm never scared, and hurried away from
this position and from this memory, which Height down,
passing through the town, home home, go home!

I was more than one waiting for me. My parents still lived
on the first floor of the same house. I climbed the stairs
and immediately, a second up to the floor space, where Grandmother
always on had held up best. I initially wanted to her and
only then, father, mother and siblings. Then I saw the
few things they had owned, but she even was not there. There
stood her chest, with blue and yellow Flowers
painted. It was locked, the key deducted. And there stood
her bedstead; it was empty. I hurried down into the living
room. Since the parents were sitting. The Sisters
were missing. That was Zartgefuehl. They had meant that parents
were before. I do not and greeted asked where Grandmother
was. "Dead - - dead -" was the reply. "When?" "Already last
year." As I sank into the chair and laid his head and
arms on the table. She was dead! You had me withheld
to protect me, to my captivity not to complicate. That was
pretty good thought, but now it hit me so much heavier.
She was not actually been sick, she was the only way had vanished,
to grief and sorrow - - - me!

    It took a long time before I raised my head again,
to greet the parents now. They were terrified. You told
me later, my face had looked worse than that of a corpse.
The siblings were added. They were glad of the reunion, but
she looked at me so strange, it's so shy. This was nothing
more than the reflection of my own face. I did indeed give
me the greatest difficulty, but I was able to blow me
had just met, do not hide it completely. I just wanted to
know from Grandmother, now no more, and I was told. She
had spoken very much about me but never a word
that would have me have to hurt, if I had been there.
And she had never complained or even cried. She said
now she knows that I was one of those souls who from their
birth to the wrong Body be thrown to be destroyed there. Now
she is convinced, that I forged through the ghost would
have to order all earthly torments endured to leave me.
But she knows I will not cry, I will take, what to wear,
and me the way to Dschinistan [sic] . Force
 Or, better still, if you could send two boat loads of
men there, tonight, and could manage to land and destroy a portion of the canoes, and launch
and tow out the others, I think that we should have a fair chance of getting peace. The natives
would be terrified at the loss of their canoes, and would be likely to make any terms which
would ensure their return to their island."

The captain at once agreed to the proposition. The three boats of the ship were lowered, and
the sailors and soldiers took their places; only two or three being left on board ship, as
there was no fear, whatever, of an attack from the shore during the night. Ned took his place
in the leading boat of the captain, and acted as guide. They coasted along at a short distance
from the land, until Ned told them to cease rowing.

"We must," he said, "be close to the spot now; but it is needful that one boat should go forward,
and find the exact entrance to the creek."

Rowing very quietly, the boat in which he was advanced, until within a few yards of the shore;
and then proceeded quietly along, for a distance of a few hundred yards, when the black line
of shore disappeared, and a streak of water was seen stretching inland. On one of the grassy plains of our Gert
spotted from left from the box, about two miles away from the road, a dark object, was soon recognized
as a single grazing animal. After the size of a cow, it seemed to be, but was of a flock and
one shepherd to see anything, and so the dark Subject, despite the objections of the two servants
who wanted us agree not whites for one of those old, from the herds for their irritability and
pugnacity ejected Wildebeest bulls often alone, had to be further periods of existence in
exile. "Your Companion you are useless, the sooner you can paraded in a European museum, thought
I and my friends agreed with one. "The care with which I am in the vicinity of the putative Wild
crept soon proved to be unnecessary, because even at 500 steps, I realized a bull, which in turn I now
turn to more attention than I would be could, and with lowered horns went off on me. Some blind
shots, however, brought him finally to give in and upset about this deception, I returned to
the car. The sharp Koran Stevenage view had proved its superiority over us Europeans.

Without accident we crossed the ford of the Schoenspruit and camped
in the open soon, between the river and past the water line leading
to Klerksdorp lawn.

Near us, two of a Transvaal truck driver (transport Rider) owned cars. The Ownership was the
same in our car and we were just coffee, it was a "cup" offerirt. Rider led the transport
of goods, as he thought, boxes with French wines and brandy, red little box with Dutch gin, big
boxes with English biscuit, and also those with preserved fruit (Jam), and Picken, shovels, etc.
on the whole, 13 000 pounds Weight on the two carriages that were charged to him in the diamond
fields, and which he to provide for the gold fields had.

After the calculation of our guest, who spoke English fairly common, he hoped, after deduction
all cost £ 140 St. at this "trip"

(drive) to make, so that with attribution of accept freight expenses from Port Elizabeth to have
known that the rise of the creative products of this Port towns to Pilgrims-Rast (Leydenburger
District) to 300 £ h. come to stand. The route from Port Elizabeth on Hope Town, Kimberley (Diamond
Fields), Christiana, Klerksdorp, Potchefstroom, Pretoria, Middleburg and Leydenburg (Lydenburg)
is almost 1100 English (a little over 255 geographical) miles, for the transport of 130 talents was therefore
the cargo of 3,450 florins very high. Most of these so-called transport Rider (pronounced "raider")
should be well only in dry years and if it snow in the winter the Karoohochebenen , Overtake,
they have often suffered a lot and can lose their entire draft animals. So white I remember
three years ago of a case where a single driver, who with six Weighed after the cap went colony,
lost in some cold nights 75 pieces oxen. The grazing was very poor when he was grazing the animals,
three days, they had not sufficiently recovered and frozen to death the sooner. I also know
of cases where such vehicle when driving through people larger rivers, such as the Orange River
stuck in the river and were yet to extensive Help arrived, the river was increased and the truck
driver lost cars and goods to replace it had any incident which has brought so many to beggary.

The next morning we left the outskirts of Klerksdorp and beat the direction of the Estherspruit
one.

The last few days it had not rained so we were allowed to have nice Hope weather, but the nights
were colder than the sensitive time when we turn from the diamond fields had passed.

In the welcoming shade of some of those more burly, hat-shaped, with
its downward tortuous Kronengezweige bowing dwarf trees, we held the
next day lunch.

The shaded sites were grasarm, almost naked and hairless mice, and showed numerous holes. But all
around in some minor depressions overgrown so lush a dense growth of grass.

E. friend wanted to pick a nice spot for lunch and our seats, he seemed
Finally, under the shady trees dwarf most of the above finding the
desired location have to, as he began to crush the mouse holes.

I was just going with the Insectennetze keep a raid in the vicinity as me friend E. 's strange
behavior to The question prompted what he was doing here. "You see, these holes are to their
environment judge to leave, and there is no more uncomfortable place than their proximity to
rest choose, just because these holes with fondness of snakes - ". "A snake, a snake, Doctor,
take the shame Bock (Bileamspeitsche), be careful, they run at you! " suddenly shouted from
the next well the terrified F., who had gone down to to capture some of the grass spotted beetles
for me. are the "chosen" remained E. friend stuck in his throat, he was not necessary to decide his
sentence, because there was already fast as an arrow shot out the reptile, diametrically to
one of the plugged Hastening holes. This and another finding closed, turned to approximately
four feet long, finger-thick line for the dwarf trees, where they me about a half hour hard
Work made before I could bemeistern in the dense branches. It was a venomous snake as well-known
in South Africa Scap-(Skap) plug.

Once in the valley of the floral Estherspruit, I devoted the next morning, as on the last resting
place, a few hours the Insectenfange, since many umbelliferous plants, including flowers oracle and
bristled Liliaceae small coleopteran species.

Mylabris, Cetonia ladybug Erdflöhe etc., found in front of many different species. Then there
was a general trip with gun, tweezers Bock and shame among the surrounding rocks close to the left Spruitthal
tried. The result was the catch of some lizards, two snakes, one of which (according to the width
of the track; ) Judge here had to spend many Buffadern. They had also grow well, because all
conditions this were available here in the sheltered rocky holes, in which small, brown and large,
gray, black striped Rohrrüßler were staying, while striped in the nearby dwarf shrubs Mice
and in the nearby valley of amphibians were found in large numbers. The Rohrrüßler are small courageous
beasts of prey, the shape she should name it after jumping shrews. The large (by the size of
a living rat) in pairs in holes in large blocks, are very vigilant and feed on insects and larvae of
insects. They jump very nimbly and groom on the run at times to look, of course, what they often
served to ruin.

Late in the afternoon we reached the already described by the robber barons - those Dutch Tormentors,
that I thought about on the journey - notorious Matjesspruit.

I took me to keep in the valley at all, but to be driven for three miles beyond, to avoid being harassed.
As we were about the first third of the slope leading Spruit achieved had made me the whip
next to the companion to the border Gert "Guardian" of the attention in the bushes on the right
hand lying robbery homestead. One of the farmers stood under a tree on the road and peered out. When
we come close to about 300 steps were, he disappeared suddenly and ran buscheinwärts to the approach
of a "pinch to report."

We imagined that had driven as the team of Gert set itself into a
trot, the threat of be happy to escape danger, and could not contain,
whether the successful List break into loud laughter.

But as usual, we laughed too soon. Suddenly seems a dirty hand on the side boards and then
followed by a dismayed face. "Chun (Good) Dag Mynheer, ah, ah waiting Dokter, but bichi - ras
ni Banje so (much) with det ow (old) alert (cars). "appeared next to Gert Then a second robber barons
in torn shirt sleeves and both tried to persuade him to bring the team to a halt. So we had but
overtaken the merciless tormentors! But Gert was not from the whips and the companion hurried
to the creek, we had to pass through. Hardly had we passed the Spruitbett had, as a crowd
of children and women of the car was chased. "Yes, why, you run For just over, "it said on
all sides," remains a little stand. "We jumped from Car down to at least the custom of justice and
the twelve present one after the others shake their hands and nothing less than pure to assure them that
we in a hurry, which might remain here under any circumstances. Since this time took the happy
folded-back buccaneer to another library refuge, where they forgot, however, that we already
knew the same. "But you can 'no further, for where you tonight goes, there is no grass for
your oxen, no water for your tea, the ground is bare fired without grass like this way, but
it remains here on the night. "But nothing helped, We knew our Pappenheimer too well and so they had
no choice, as empty-handed to return home.

The sun was already fairly high, as we on the following day at the Klipspruit (stony Spruit)
Catch held. About 1 ½ miles away on the same car and there was a nearby grazing some horses. Behind
the car seemed to be a tent. I hoped Dutch hunter Found that I, in case we had hunted without
success, some freshly killed animals, half of the skins to buy, imaginary.

We also had judged rightly, for we found the owner of the land route, on which we rested and had
the further away his farm house and grasped with his family on a vacation trip was, taking his time
with Hunting sales. Around the car were several branches in the soft ground and embedded with
ox belt connected, on which hung numerous, elongated pieces of meat to dry to the known Beltong
be. On the ground lay a wildebeest bull that skinning provide a Koranna tried.

Where do we want to turn our eyes, everywhere they met a surprising wealth Wild at each class.
We have witnessed a struggle between two wildebeest bulls with incredible Vehemently invaded each other,
not less, but they had their common Opponents in us soon sensed and followed the fleeing herd rapidly.

The
dissection of the me of the farmer surrendered Gnufelles I had at
the acute Bones of the skeleton head hurt, in the heat of the work
to speed it up a threatening Downpour inspired me, I paid no attention.

Severe pain and swollen hands taught me the next day that I acted imprudently and Arsenikpräparat had
penetrated into the wounds. I was later urgently to the threat of complacency warned.

The next morning we left Klipspruit, exceeded the lion and Wolfsspruit
and reached towards evening, the already mentioned farm Rennicke,
all owners are on the journey quite early had received unfriendly.

This time he had against our plan to hunt in the woods, nothing objection, he even gave us even
with his boys as guides. The little boy led us on the northern edge of the wood, he reached the
bow down to us and him still was to follow.

After about 60 steps, we were at a low, barely five feet tall, here and there with dwarf shrubs overgrown
earth dam.

The boy in front of us crept up and looked around, then he called us wary covered and followed by one
of the little bushes lookout. "Kick, Ohm" (look, uncle), whispered He's in my ear, and pointed with
his left hand over the dam. An unforgettable sight met I wish we dar. a network of this scene to
see stretched and life including to obtain as "life."

The dam, on which we lay, was the southern fence of a three-page,
dammed depression the grass and rushes to grow to be only fed by rain
water seemed.

In this Waters waddled, swam and dived around a host of birds, were the most striking the sacred ibis, at
least fifty, on a snow-white plumage in a Foot dormant, others slowly and solemnly striding and the
smaller comrades (Divers, etc.) sometimes blows dispensation, while the most rapidly back and
herliefen while below the water surface with the dark-colored head and beak forward and reverse
fished. Besides them was a dam on the side, as the world forgiving, a gray Heron couples. cackled
between the grass and the rushes in gray and black and white pied
Wild ducks, while countless coots could hear their deep voices.

In between cavorting the small nimble diver. On the edge of an angle to the turbid water falling dam
were loud whistling some ruff (Philo Machus pugnux) up and down, while small Beach runner in
dense crowds of one fly to the other shore, without at the same time Place to stay. Later I
found the explanation to the noisy bustle of this liquid to the Element-bound birds. A heavy
downpour had an enormous amount of insects and worms washed down from the plane into the depression,
even dead lizards, mice even found their Way there, in this richly-table it was now the feathered
company law tasty.

One of us had probably imprudent keep your head protruded, because before I was his knew it, all the
long stilts had raised a loud cry in the air. Involuntarily and probably in fear to see them all
flying away, I put on one of the ibis and brought him down as a coot. touching on the way home,
the marshes, captured E. boyfriend a wild duck.

Arriving at the car, I was told by friend K. that the farmer had invited me to visit. Although the
same call to wealthy, but his house was very simple list of bricks. He complained to me his sorrow
over the losses, which he annually by the dominant horse disease suffer and asked me for my advice,
just as his horse was infected by the disease.

In the afternoon we left Rennicke's Farm and arrived in the darkness to "Gildenhuis Place" , it's
the same here at the southern foot of the submissions Maqwasihöhen built farm, on which I the outward
already mentioned.

On the third trip - two years later - I met wandering far contain
an Elephant Hunter, of his home in the northern reaches had Maqwasihöhen
to its southern slope we camped just.

He was a capable fighter, and I will below, before I of the Maqwasihöhen distinguish, tell one
of his hunting episodes. Weinhold Schmitt was within his Bachelor days in one of the sources of the Rivers
Maqwasi-lying farm on. At that time were the northern gorges of the Maqwasihöhen by driving four communities
in the rule hunting lions notorious bad. None of those living in
the Boer's environment had been dared to go the swashbuckling lion's
body.

Then came one day the son of a farmer rode home with the sad news that the bodies of three horses
he - there were "gesoute" (Salted, that is immune from the pneumonia), which he had to pick
- were there, the already half were consumed in the grass, and on
the countless tracks were the creator of the infamous That can be
seen only too clearly.

This message brought it into existence, that the Boer's finally muster to action and community
decided to kill the beasts of prey. The farmer and six riders arrived, the young Man who found
the horse was killed, was elected leader, and the trace of the lion was found soon. It went through
a valley, a, a second, then she came to a plane which was unfortunately kurzbegrast, the ground was hard
and probably why they lost the trace of the animals and had to give up the pursuit. However, it
is likely that the lion hunter of courage was somewhat decreased and that all were only too agree,
dear return home, as yet, tired out after a lengthy pursuit, the battle with the beasts of prey
record. On their return to the disappointed hunter separated close to Schmidt's apartment. But
how surprised he and his friend, as they near the homestead of a lion pair saw in the tall
grass.

After the position which had taken the beasts of prey, seemed they lie in wait. Approaching the two riders
whose horses are in good Held close to their arch-enemy, rose the lion, and Schmitt, a sure shot
to win jumped, took the reins, took a few steps forward and laid straight justing to the lions
after him, called him as his companion, when turned Schmitt, he saw that this and just leave
him at a distance of 50 steps taken Posto had. This was our hunters very unpleasant. Two lion
he saw before him, the others were allowed to probably not be far off, his friend had left
him in this uncomfortable situation.

So he had no choice but to think of itself as a retreat. His horse by the reins leader He backed
away, but so that he always kept an eye on the beasts of prey. However, before the shooter his companions
had been reached, the lion turned to flee to the hills. This was our courage and both hunters galloped
after them, Schmitt with the intention - as any mounted and some experienced South African
lion hunters in such a case tried - the Lions to win them a head start and to relocate the
road. He succeeded and the two Lions were now between him and his companions, who with shouts
and Hutschwenken the friends from whom she divorced a short time before and not out of range was
to draw attention to the Fund was trying. However, before this - although with penalties Rein
in galloping along - were on hand to the lioness had turned left and was disappeared in a funnel-shaped,
shallow rocky bushy but well, while the lion with bared teeth, the
moment when both fighters moved closer to the jungle were used, with
some sentences in the bushes near the height and disappeared - after
he probably still intimidated by the sight of the approaching hunting
people - his escape along the level also continued in such a hurry
that he his pursuers did not come to face.

As the other five hunters had gathered on the spot, it was decided to deepen to surround and
in particular to the hill facing the same sharp edge to keep in mind because on this side
try to escape feared the lioness. Stationed here also three of the hunter and began shouting
and throwing stones to disturb the lioness and a Escape attempts to move. The stone-throwing,
they might well have hardly bothered, but all the more the lioness seemed outraged by the horrific
"Dutch," in which the three hunters, talked with her, because after some time they appeared on the
edge of the depression, the situation . Spy
 In the streets a few
Portuguese, magnificently dressed and escorted by guards, moved among a throng of gaily attired
natives; whose slight figures, upright carriage, and intelligent faces struck the boys as most
pleasing, after their experience of the islanders of the South Seas. The immense variety of
turbans and headgear greatly astonished them, as well as the magnificence of the dresses of
some of these, who appeared to be men of importance and who were attended by a retinue of armed
followers.

The young men were escorted by two officers of the viceroy, who had come on board ship as soon
as she dropped anchor, to conduct them to his presence. At the sight of these officials the
natives hastily cleared the way, and made every demonstration of respect, as the party passed
through them. Opposite the entrance hanging
on the pillar of American breech; on earth along the wall were sheep and goat skins spread
- the primitive couches. During the conversation with F. had Gassibone apologizes that the pumpkins
in the fields were not yet ripe, and that he could send me no meat because its flocks of Wassernoth
half of the Vaal River grazing. I was able to convince even later that at that time of year in 1873
between the Vaal River and Hart was no potable water. Even in the city's flowed Gassibone the
source so sparse that it was constantly besieged by Batlapinenfrauen and only one could get to
the other to the water. When our servants came to the source, he was of the Women shouted so
that he preferred to withdraw as quickly with the empty bucket. We had no choice but to buy from
us which the native women or with us to provide the amount of a mispelartigen, wild species, to
quench our to breastfeed.

In general, it seemed to me that this Batlapinen respect Iren not
particularly their leader.

In the last few years (since this first of my trips), there were between one part Gassibone Jantz
and Mankuruan and the other to friction, which chiefly on two grounds based: first, as claimed
Gassibone Mankuruan that each of the Paramont Chief (Supreme Prince or the real king) of Batlapinen
is, secondly, as demonstrated Jantscher Mankuruan the British missionaries and weighed, while
Gassibone taken against them, the Dutch has always weighed. So he entered his country from the Transvaal
Republic, as Mankuruan thought of submitting to the English government. So when the Transvaal
Republic annectirt was by the English, he molested the Dutch Boers, whom he now considered British
subjects hated, so that against him Commando had to be sent, the against himself as cowardly as previously
demonstrated boastful.

As in all villages of the natives we had here a siege on the part
of natives bear that left nothing to be desired in terms of noise
and it was screaming, singing and laughter, this barter-driven, old
and fresh carnivorous fur, goat and ox hides, wooden spoon blunt and
useless Assagay, corn and unripe pumpkins, roasted locusts and honey
plotted to buy.

The one begged, asked the other, a third complained that it all possible errors between screamed
a female voice if I was a medicine-man, as you reported one of my servants, they would buy a medicine,
which her to a child would help, she had neither son nor daughter. "But I have a husband and several
other Women live in the same farms and have children, but I do not. "The more readily But it shows
those people over, the worse and they are shameless in their Claims; each one is more reserved,
but without harsh to deal with the people, the more Better results are achieved.

After we bought some corn from the people we were on our way. Our question, whether we should fill
our barrels with water, denied to us by the king given leader with the remark, we would find
enough in many parts of the path of water. Since we the man as a leader received, we believed
him to be able to trust completely, but we were bitterly disappointed. We found over the entire
route to the Vaal River water, and had because we had to travel this
and the following day in the scorching sun heat, much thirst .

Suffer The country between the Vaal River and the city's Gassibone is a single high-level partially
wooded and bushy, partial, and especially in wet years, hochbegrast.

then, pulling at this level, we noticed a peculiar gray rapidly approaching cloud streaks to that
covered the western horizon. The closer he got, the more it looked like from the earth rising,
in places, dense columns of smoke. It was a locust cloud. These locusts often appear during
the South American summer time in mile-long swarms, all green in destroying the vegetation,
where they occur.

Your flight is a continuous dip, ie, while the one party settles down to devour flying animals already
saturated the former of time, until it forces the hunger for but time to let go.

Our guide described in the grassy plane in which I was ten months later a fire had almost taken
a aeronautical Excursion, a rich bins, by a high point marked Kameeldornbaum due south, where we compared
Sundown and should find water. However, when we in the afternoon on the spot were, we found a
very shallow, except for a few, hardly a cup of water containing
Bodies completely dried out rain puddle.

Water could not really call it; It was rather a thick greenish-plenty of tadpoles, larvae
of insects and infusoria deferred and smelling strongly of ammonia, aqueous fluid. It needs
no special Assurance that we initially at the mere thought of the enjoyment of this fluid disgust
seized, but the thirst finally defeated all concerns. The liquid was from some of the Holes scooped
with a spoon and filled it with a napkin, in which millions of, invisible to the naked eye, and a host
of tangible animal structures herumtummelte, and the water durchfiltrirt cumbersome. The whole
experiment yielded about 1 ½ cups a thick liquid, which amount was divided into five equal parts.

After
a two-hour break, during which we, despite burning thirst no second Filtrirungsversuch made, we set
off again. The same extent as we approach the Vaal River approached the bushes and trees disappeared,
the grass was low - an excellent pasture for large herds. We saw nothing of the gnus and gazelles,
which we as stated by the Residents of Gassibone's residence on the said route should have
found, we met only a few Batlapinen that only armed with sticks and African by several greyhounds
accompanied, hunted small game.

The next day, when the sun already behind the wooded banks of the Vaal River Free State salvage
began, we were a little Batlapinenjungen based on the wide grass plain Herding goats on the wooded
hills attention, behind which the river hinschlängelte. In the specified direction, we saw some huts,
where dwelt Gassibone's herdsman, who lead to early evening, and the cattle grazing on the
plain after the river had to drink.

The Vaal River is undoubtedly one of the most treacherous rivers South
Africa.

Its banks, less his bed, so muddy that the previous draft animals to water and a sink miserable
starvation die, and this especially older animals, which the length of the river propelled carriage
and wagon owners (riders) because covered with mats on one or the other place until his return from the
newly taken up to a business or perhaps several months later, performance-border visits have
to leave. I also made several bitter Experience in this regard.

While my companions went out to visit the watering place of the Batlapinenrinder, I turned downstream
with the guns to some wild ducks for our night snack to catch. It gradually became dark. I walked
as quietly as possible, on the harder ground sites only with the toes up, and I find before
me dry bushes on the steep bank slope touching thought, as I bent down to remove them and so
every noise avoided by trampling them. As a loud chatter - I already know - to my left, then
a heavy wings and moving the water downstream two of the desired
wild geese (Chenalopa).

Instinctively, I knelt down to the better see and listen to the wing stroke, and the depth of
the beautiful are so quiet, so interrupt slowly flowing river prevailing silence by a shot,
seemed to me to be a sacrilege. The wide river gleamed dull to me to the West, like a huge, shiny belt,
and in the soul appeared - unconscious and unsought - a similar picture from far, far away
on! A beautiful, almost like band, which means the base of the mountain lined, and the I so
durchgeträumt some evening and many a night in fishing! In his Nearby, a small modest house,
a light used in the dark night to meet me to shimmer - it now shimmers even now, - where I here
in the evening silence on the banks of an African Current time? Oh, dear father's heart, oh,
do you think of my dear mother - do not be angry that I you leave, I will come again and then
everything is all good - and so I sat for hours under the high pastures on the banks of Garip.
Indistinct, the shady trees were on the horizon from the opposite shore.

I finally made their way home. The darkness it harder for these test more than I thought. I often
hit his head on a cross to the river reaching the road Weeping willow or I tripped over their
roots. Some owls seemed well on the far have rattled the shore a Meerkatzenheerde, because first
and suddenly several voices, then Only in breaks sounded a short, faint cries of the monkeys over at me,
which Summit of the higher trees must have chosen their camp. Several times I was surprised also
a sudden fall in the water, they were fleeing water iguanas (Polydaedalus), huge, and about five
feet long lizard, which the bank backs of mice, animals, etc., by notching searching, silent at
my approach to the water crept up and then dipped suddenly were.

These giant lizards are generally select at least one continuous or periodic flowing Waters
to their whereabouts, both in the vicinity of human dwellings and in the Wilderness. Your teeth
are for animals that are bigger than her stomach, dangerous, but they have a powerful force
in their jaws and an even more important in its long rudder tail, of them, especially in the hunting
of aquatic animals of very great benefit. Such an iguana usually waits at the edge of a river,
flat on the ground or on an overhanging Tree trunk lying flat, like a piece of wood so that
you hardly notice it, and often for hours motionless for prey. Nothing betrays dark brown in the
animal, the body scales of many green and yellow stripes is covered, life, as the tiny eyes, that open
and close continuously, until they spotted an approaching prey, and this pay attention. Mice, frogs
and notched animals and all he can handle - ie was achieved in mammals the size of a rat among
birds the size of a chicken, etc. - is its prey. A special fondness for it seems to have shrimp
and eggs. But think I that that preference for the crab eating, we could often observe, actually
only a rule of necessity and that the lizard only for want of other prey of this throughout South Africa
and even far to the north of occurring crustacean from his Holes out of date. On such streams and
rivers will be a lot of the chewed remains of shell aware so that probably a significant number
of crabs for the daily meals of the scaly Marine life may be necessary. In flowing waters hochbegrasten
banks located Farms have suffered much from the iguanas because they attend only to happy
to chicken coops and save the people collecting the eggs. Yes, they go into this preference
so far that they even climb high trees to search for birds' nests, as I have in the mission
station at Limkana Matebe-river watching. But they are in tree climbing of their close relatives,
the land iguanas, significantly exceeded. I found the water iguanas from the southern coast to spread
in the Marutse realm. In rivers where crocodiles , They find inhabiting the rapids of the
former because they are shunned.

Next to the water iguana is also found in South Africa a similar, but never living in the water
Species, besides those already mentioned land iguana. This style is built broad, clumsy, has a much shorter
tail than that on the whole, and is 4-5 feet long. They are found on grass as on poor hochbegrasten
planes in rock formations, in bushes, and in forests. They are looking for small birds, mice,
rats, lice and insects to their food, even the Nest gutting them are a popular thing, and the
trees for them what the Polydaedalus the liquid element. They smell danger, they climb rapidly
to their airy home and then lay down flat on the transverse branches but where they are on
the ground, so crawl they quickly abandoned in a Erdthierloch, or if they can not find this
refuge, they try to cling to the ground and remain motionless. Just as one However, they touched,
suddenly life in the apparently sleeping animals. Himself up, Stretch out, hiss loudly, and walk
slowly and gravely - one might say, only on its associated nail tips,
as thick as they used to us, lying on the ground, appeared as thin
and maintain skeleton figures they are now.

In the abdomen this Pachysauriers you meet a rich lobed fat accumulation, which South African natives
of several strains is used as remedies for various diseases.

About midnight I was back to my companions on the car, which by my long absence worried, wake left
off.

The next morning we started after we indulged in the kindness of a bath in the Vaal River, in easterly
direction to the Transvaal Republic. More than I expected, pushed We already after two hours of travel
on some of the buildings on the right Vaalufer. Were coming closer We covered an oblong brick house
with iron sheet, a second set of soil and piles Structure of art, which threatened to collapse
at any moment, and a third of fired bricks built houses with flat roof. These three different ends
of a meticulously, future City listed "buildings", 2 tents and 13 Korannahütten, formed in
1872, the sea of ​​houses the most western of the cities of the Republic, the later by the unrest in
the country's Gassibone and among the local residents near Koranna's in South Africa has become quite
famous Christiana. The former house was the residence of the country Droste, while the counting of the
highest Civil and military authorities of the district Bloemhof,
in the second small, flat tile roof covered was a general store and
in the dilapidated house lived, if I mistake not, the sheriff, a notary,
etc. In one of the tents to the sheriff under standing army for police
the towns of Christiana and Bloemhof, and for the whole District -
in sum a black man.

 There a royal
banquet was held, with much splendor and display; after which a masque, prepared by those ingenious
authors Mr. Beaumont and Mr. Fletcher, was enacted before her.

Three days later they embarked upon a country ship, bound for Plymouth, and after a rough tossing
in the Channel, landed there. They were received with much honor by the mayor and dignitaries
of Plymouth, for Sir Francis had already written down, giving a brief account of their adventures,
and of the marks of esteem which the Queen had been pleased to bestow upon them; and Plymouth,
as the representative of the county of Devon, rejoiced in giving a hearty welcome to her sons,
who had brought so much credit upon them. The
content of their speeches, as will be seen immediately, no other than the old and true Proposition
that where denied the help of the right is its own force protection and avenger applied to the local
law limiting the power. Not the non-membership of the opponent to the shielding legal associations,
but its not extending to the scene of the incident justifies the use of private violence. Accordingly,
the question of the admissibility of private Punishment of the pirates by the respective scope of
positive self-help law intended.

Whether such self-help right there, was not Grotius for his time, undoubtedly. For a Christian, he
teaches, whether it concern [47] "poenam sumere de improbo quoquam, praesertim capitale, quanquam
id jure gentium nonnunquam permitti diximus: laudandus unde est eorum mos populorum, apud Quos navigaturi
instruuntur mandatis a publication potestate ad persequendos piratas Quo in mari si repererint:
ut uti possint data occasione, non quasi suopte exer sed ut publice
jussi "(L. II, XX, 14) [48].

The little younger Loccenius is not for the contents of this Council, as the States granted represent
the law (de jure maritimo, 1651, p. 963, published by the Heineccius "Scriptorum de jure nautico
fasciculus", Hall 1740). This is the self-help procedures a public procedure replaced. In that
moment comes the power of the authorized Merchant ships in the effective seizure of the pirates
in the foreground, in addition to the previously Rights of the punishment
took for granted no highlighting (see Grotius and Pufendorf in the
text), and the imposition of penalty is reserved for the courts [49].

It must be assumed that the modern literature, if they have a right of private Punishment of the pirates
is assumed [50] the idea of ​​self-help law, if the admissibility seizure of private teaching,
[51] the condition of pertinent government authorization is based. Since self-help rights
with magisterial powers of individual persons can be derived only
from the domestic legal system, it is clear that the whole question
is a purely national terms.

[52]

This finding raises the question of the power of the merchant vessels triggers the arrest and
punishment of pirates in the applicable law in a way that the assertion of such a right as being
an integral part of general international law is not correct, but no less the general non-existence [53]
of such powers. State law can help themselves rights and provide transfer the exercise of police
powers, who appears to him good. A comparison of the German and North American law proves the
positivity of the developed thesis; one [54] is the authorization
of merchant ships to track pirates alien to the others [55], it can
be.

[56]

FOOTNOTES:

[38] Thus France, arrêté du Gouvernement (Kapereireglement) of 22 May 1803 Article 51 and 52, Law of
10 April 1825 Articles 10 and 16; see Pistoye et Duverdy, Traité prises of 1858 P. 33 f, the concept
of piracy in this respect is necessary narrower than the penalties the Act of 1825 (Art. 1-4) underlying
(especially in regard to Article 4, mutiny); for in Articles 1-3 of the Act, such cases are on the record,
the ship declared good prize (Dalloz, "Maritime Organization" in Volume 34 of the Répertoire de
législation, 1869, 946, 955).

Furthermore, Spain, ordinance of 20 Article 28th June 1801 So also Bluntschli, international
law 3. Ed 346, 347 Comparable to the provisions of the Brussels and
Quintuplevertrages General Act concerning the awarding of the withdrawn
vessels to the Open to ship.

[39] In Italy, confiscation of the ship
by the verdict, then sold and treatment of the proceeds as if it were
declared good prize, Cod per la mar. merc. Article That could not otherwise than in most Cases be
impossible. I have been on procedural Reasons falsely accused
for Muenchmeyer have written the "Book of Love" to. How can
I have to prove that this is untrue? Assuming that it
Muenchmeyerschen the lawyer would be the insane Idea came
to assert in court Peter Rosegger that the infamous "Temple
of Venus" have written. Rosegger would take
the evidence that this was a lie? Or he would say that
you the truth of this assertion he had to prove? I am convinced
the latter. And so Thue [sic] me too. I demand the submission
of my original manuscripts. For no other evidence can
not be.

As for the aforementioned Peter Rosegger plagiarism concerned, it
has the following with them meaning: The Benediktinermoench Pöllmann
Father has a number written articles against me and my works and sent
them ahead of the threat that he with me they'll make a rope to me
"from the Temple of the German art hinauszupeitschen.

    "He is operated as pointing at a picture, as each
of his Allegations that he ueberschuettete me then
was nothing more than a whip, pointed, sharp, hard, unloving
and tierquaelerisch, so the readers and infuriating
verklatschend without effect in the air. An empty Bang
with the boys whip it was when he saw me accused
of plagiarism and unsuccessful pains to to prove the truth
of his assertion. He said because such an ignorant and
could therefore continue nothing but the well-known effect of
ignorance . Reach The "Grazer Daily Post" writes:

"Father Pöllmann, a well known man, who recently in
true Christian humility, even the decorative Epithet
of a "recognized critic" has attributed the moral defeat,
which he in his battle Schimpf against the travel writer
Karl May suffered very soon forgotten, because he recently
took his mouth again full, etc. etc. "

    I had, in some of my very first, Reiseerzaehlungen oldest,
in their writing, I still did not have the necessary
experience, the events I described to play against a geographical
background , I leave the known, publicly accessible works
gathered. This is not only allowed, but it happens very
common. Adapt to local descriptions can never be
stolen.

    Literary theft, that is plagiarism, occurs only when
there are significant components of thought and work appropriates
them in the Type used and that they then key elements of the
Work of the plagiarist and make it as his own Thoughts appear.
Such a thing but I have never done and it will also never
do. Geographical works can, especially if they have become
common intellectual, be used quite safe, provided it is
not copying the entire sheet or side effects and is the work of
Nachschriftstellers despite the Decrease of stocks by an independent
intellectual work remains. In the introduction
to the Voigtlander's "Copyright and Publishing law means
"it:

"No man creates his own world of thoughts within themselves.
 When at last they had crippled
their foes, they would either close upon them and carry them by boarding, or, leaving them
helpless wrecks upon the water, would hoist all sail and again overtake the Spanish fleet. The "unchaste" science is therefore the Chemistry,
is "therefore" turn so many Jews. With the Jews he proceeds exactly as with the women. He says
of them from the vilest, lowest grades. Is it but not, it was not a "real" Jew. The Jews, he
also admits the possibility completely to bring about the Jewish, while the woman the possibility
of this survey denies the purely human, so he was a Jew himself, seemed cautious this clause provided.
That not only "Jewish" but also any other "only National" is disgusting, because It always means
a hard limitation of the human remains, of course, unsaid. The chapter about Judaism the way,
contains much of the spirit of the rich and deep - if it analytically going on - and to immediately
snapped into the grotesque, as well as their own "conclusions" to use.

These same characteristics have many of the earlier chapters, and for this reason, those readers
who sympathize with the author, have the impression that the chapters ever large-scale and very
promising appear to use bass and treble promising, and then fall off and disappoint, namely
where the arbitrary synthesis begins their own "building" after the often very astute analysis:
is there anything strange flat inaccurate and superficial, and above all, blind in addition to
the actual facts by rushing, on an "imaginary", previously designed, popanzartiges "target." Again
and again intertwines often told each other, to shoot out again from new members struggling to
get back to swallow and verknäueln.

Everywhere he sees "ideas", "principle", root-like facilities where there are usually historically the
adult is, everywhere is the blindness to the historical and economic element, which shape forming
and changing modes effective is shown, the large role it at all Processes and phenomena falls
is denied and all on a kind of metaphysical determination returned.

The claim that "the real Jew like the genuine woman both live only in the class, not as Individualities
"is, by the word" real, they are hedged about with the caution than the perceived, which usually
is called "Jewish Fabricator" means, especially since even follows on the next page to remark,
"it is an absolute Jews as little as one absolute Christians "(and an" absolute "woman). "Just
could not believe" shallowest shallowness, "That man is formed by its environment." Only shallow
superficiality can Who deny that man is influenced by its environment, at least, and that this
influence often leads to formations, formations, formation! Anyone who denies this, denies all possibility
of development. Why is there just no "absolute" Jews and Christians, no "real" man or not "Real" woman? Just because
external impressions are resistant educative effect.


