Southern Horrors: Lynch Law in All Its Phases

1892, 1893, 1894

By Ida B. Wells-Barnett

PREFACE

The greater part of what is contained in these pages was published in the New York Age June
25, 1892, in explanation of the editorial which the Memphis whites considered sufficiently
infamous to justify the destruction of my paper, the Free Speech.

Since the appearance of that statement, requests have come from all parts of the country that
"Exiled" (the name under which it then appeared) be issued in pamphlet form. Some donations
were made, but not enough for that purpose. The noble effort of the ladies of New York and
Brooklyn Oct. 5 have enabled me to comply with this request and give the world a true, unvarnished
account of the causes of lynch law in the South.

This statement is not a shield for the despoiler of virtue, nor altogether a defense for the
poor blind Afro-American Sampsons who suffer themselves to be betrayed by white Delilahs. It
is a contribution to truth, an array of facts, the perusal of which it is hoped will stimulate
this great American Republic to demand that justice be done though the heavens fall.

It is with no pleasure I have dipped my hands in the corruption here exposed. Somebody must
show that the Afro-American race is more sinned against than sinning, and it seems to have
fallen upon me to do so. The awful death-roll that Judge Lynch is calling every week is appalling,
not only because of the lives it takes, the rank cruelty and outrage to the victims, but because
of the prejudice it fosters and the stain it places against the good name of a weak race.

The Afro-American is not a bestial race. If this work can contribute in any way toward proving
this, and at the same time arouse the conscience of the American people to a demand for justice
to every citizen, and punishment by law for the lawless, I shall feel I have done my race a
service. Other considerations are of minor importance.

IDA B. WELLS New York City, Oct. 26, 1892

To the Afro-American women of New York and Brooklyn, whose race love, earnest zeal and unselfish
effort at Lyric Hall, in the City of New York, on the night of October 5, 1892--made possible
its publication, this pamphlet is gratefully dedicated by the author.

HON. FRED. Editorials in the daily papers of that date caused a meeting to be held in the Cotton
Exchange Building; a committee was sent for the editors of the Free Speech an Afro-American
journal published in that city, and the only reason the open threats of lynching that were
made were not carried out was because they could not be found. The cause of all this commotion
was the following editorial published in the Free Speech May 21, 1892, the Saturday previous.

The Daily Commercial of Wednesday following, May 25, contained the following leader:

  Those negroes who are attempting to make the lynching of individuals of
  their race a means for arousing the worst passions of their kind are
  playing with a dangerous sentiment. The negroes may as well understand
  that there is no mercy for the negro rapist and little patience with his
  defenders.

  The fact that a black scoundrel is allowed to live and utter such
  loathsome and repulsive calumnies is a volume of evidence as to the
  wonderful patience of Southern whites. But we have had enough of it.

  There are some things that the Southern white man will not tolerate, and
  the obscene intimations of the foregoing have brought the writer to the
  very outermost limit of public patience. We hope we have said enough.

The Evening Scimitar of same date, copied the Commercial's editorial with these words of comment:

  Patience under such circumstances is not a virtue. If the negroes
  themselves do not apply the remedy without delay it will be the duty of
  those whom he has attacked to tie the wretch who utters these calumnies
  to a stake at the intersection of Main and Madison Sts., brand him in
  the forehead with a hot iron and perform upon him a surgical operation
  with a pair of tailor's shears.

Acting upon this advice, the leading citizens met in the Cotton Exchange Building the same
evening, and threats of lynching were freely indulged, not by the lawless element upon which
the deviltry of the South is usually saddled--but by the leading business men, in their leading
business centre. Mr. Fleming, the business manager and owning a half interest the Free Speech,
had to leave town to escape the mob, and was afterwards ordered not to return; letters and
telegrams sent me in New York where I was spending my vacation advised me that bodily harm
awaited my return. Creditors took possession of the office and sold the outfit, and the Free
Speech was as if it had never been.

The editorial in question was prompted by the many inhuman and fiendish lynchings of Afro-Americans
which have recently taken place and was meant as a warning. Eight lynched in one week and five
of them charged with rape! The thinking public will not easily believe freedom and education
more brutalizing than slavery, and the world knows that the crime of rape was unknown during
four years of civil war, when the white women of the South were at the mercy of the race which
is all at once charged with being a bestial one.

Since my business has been destroyed and I am an exile from home because of that editorial,
the issue has been forced, and as the writer of it I feel that the race and the public generally
should have a statement of the facts as they exist. They will serve at the same time as a defense
for the Afro-Americans Sampsons who suffer themselves to be betrayed by white Delilahs.

The whites of Montgomery, Ala., knew J.C. Duke sounded the keynote of the situation--which
they would gladly hide from the world, when he said in his paper, the Herald, five years ago:
"Why is it that white women attract negro men now more than in former days? There was a time
when such a thing was unheard of. There is a secret to this thing, and we greatly suspect it
is the growing appreciation of white Juliets for colored Romeos." Mr. Duke, like the Free Speech
proprietors, was forced to leave the city for reflecting on the "honah" of white women and
his paper suppressed; but the truth remains that Afro-American men do not always rape(?) white
women without their consent.

Mr. Duke, before leaving Montgomery, signed a card disclaiming any intention of slandering
Southern white women. The editor of the Free Speech has no disclaimer to enter, but asserts
instead that there are many white women in the South who would marry colored men if such an
act would not place them at once beyond the pale of society and within the clutches of the
law. The miscegnation laws of the South only operate against the legitimate union of the races;
they leave the white man free to seduce all the colored girls he can, but it is death to the
colored man who yields to the force and advances of a similar attraction in white women. White
men lynch the offending Afro-American, not because he is a despoiler of virtue, but because
he succumbs to the smiles of white women.

2

The BLACK and WHITE of IT

The Cleveland Gazette of January 16, 1892, publishes a case in point.

There are thousands of such cases throughout the South, with the difference that the Southern
white men in insatiate fury wreak their vengeance without intervention of law upon the Afro-Americans
who consort with their women. A few instances to substantiate the assertion that some white
women love the company of the Afro-American will not be out of place. Most of these cases were
reported by the daily papers of the South.

