The first step in classifying a fact is called analysis and consists in discovering common
qualities which the fact possesses. According to Bergson the discovery of common qualities
in a fact consists simply in learning to overlook everything in that fact except the respects
in which it can be said to be of the same kind, and so to belong to the same class, as other
facts. Far from adding to our direct knowledge, as common sense supposes, he holds that analysis
consists in shutting our eyes to the individuality of facts in order to dwell only upon what
they have in common with one another. Starting, then, from the wider field of knowledge which
he assumes Bergson explains how we reach the limited facts, which are all that we ordinarily
know, by saying that these facts are arrived at by selection out of this much wider field.
It is not the disinterested love of knowledge that determines how much we shall actually attend
to: our selection from the whole field of what facts we will attend to is determined by the
pressing need of being prepared in advance for the facts which are to come. We attend only
to so much of the whole of what is, in some sense, directly known to us as will be useful for
framing the general laws which enable us to prepare in advance for what is coming. This practical
utility explains why analysis and classification seem to us to be the obvious way of dealing
with what we know.

The work of abstraction by which, treating the facts directly known as so much material for
framing explanations, we pass from these actual facts to the general laws which explain them,
falls into four stages, and at each stage, according to Bergson, as we go further and further
from the original fact directly known, the two vices of the intellectual method, limitation
and distortion of the actual fact, become more and more apparent.

Starting from the fact directly known, the first thing, as we have seen, is to learn to distinguish
common qualities which it shares in common with some, but not all, other facts; the next thing
is to classify it by fitting it into the further groups to which these various qualities entitle
it to belong. The moment a quality has been distinguished in a fact that fact has been fitted
into a class, the class which consists of all the facts in which that quality can be distinguished.
Thus, in our original illustration, when you first distinguished warmth, etc., you were beginning
to fit your fact into classes: when you perceived warmth you fitted it into the class of warm
objects, and it was the same with the other qualities of roughness, size and smell. This fitting
of facts into classes according to the common qualities distinguished in them might be called
a preliminary classification, but we shall use the term analysis for this preliminary grouping
of facts according to their qualities, keeping the term classification for the next step, which
you took when you realized "this is a dog," which consists in the discovery not of mere disconnected
qualities but of "real things." Just as every quality, such as "warm" or "hairy" or "sweet"
or "cold" is a class of actual facts, so every "real thing" such as "a dog" or "an ice cream"
is a class of qualities. Thus a quality is once, and a "real thing" is twice, removed from
actual fact, and the more energetically we pursue the intellectual work of abstraction the
further we get from the fact itself from which we began. The point of grouping facts into classes,
whether by analysing them into qualities or classifying them into "real things," is that we
can then apply to the particular fact all that we know to be true in general of whatever belongs
to these various classes: in a word, once we have fitted a fact into a class we can apply to
it all the general laws which are known to apply to that class.

Common sense, as we saw, tells us that when we distinguish qualities in any given fact we obtain
fuller knowledge than was given in the mere unanalysed fact, and this knowledge is supposed
to become fuller still when we go on to classify these qualities into "real things." Bergson,
on the contrary, says that common qualities are arrived at by leaving out much of the fact
originally known, while each successive stage in the process of abstraction by which we explain
facts, though it enables us to apply more and more general laws, yet leaves out more and more
of the actual fact itself. Analysis begins this whittling away of the actual fact by confining
our attention to qualities which do not exhaust the whole content of the actual fact. At this
preliminary stage, however, though we concentrate our attention on the quality, we still remain
aware of the whole fact in which the quality has its setting. Classification carries the work
of limitation a stage further. "Things" are a stage further removed from actual fact than qualities
are since, while qualities are classes of facts, "things" are only classes of qualities. For
classification into "things" therefore only the qualities in a fact will be of any use, and
so, when we have reached the stage of classification, we need no longer burden our attention
with the actual facts themselves in their entirety, we need pay attention only to the qualities
which distinguish one group from another, For the purpose of classification into "things" the
quality can stand for the whole fact: thus, as Bergson points out, we begin to lose contact
with the whole fact originally known, since all the rest of it except the respects in which
it can be analysed will henceforth tend to be ignored.

The third stage in explaining facts in terms of general laws is called induction and consists
in observing and formulating the relations of "things." "Things" are related to each other
through their qualities. Qualities do not give us the whole fact, because, when we have distinguished
qualities, we are inclined to concentrate our attention on the quality at the expense of the
rest of the fact; nevertheless while we attend to actual qualities we have not lost contact
with fact altogether. Induction, which consists in framing general laws of the relations of
"things," though it does not involve attention to the whole fact, does at least demand attention
to qualities, and so, while we are occupied with induction, we do still keep touch with fact
to some extent.

