"So large," replied the man who sat at the door of the cart, "that larger, or as large, have
never crossed from Africa to Spain; I am the keeper, and I have brought over others, but never
any like these. They are male and female; the male is in that first cage and the female in
the one behind, and they are hungry now, for they have eaten nothing to-day, so let your worship
stand aside, for we must make haste to the place where we are to feed them."

Hereupon, smiling slightly, Don Quixote exclaimed, "Lion-whelps to me! to me whelps of lions,
and at such a time! Then, by God! those gentlemen who send them here shall see if I am a man
to be frightened by lions. Get down, my good fellow, and as you are the keeper open the cages,
and turn me out those beasts, and in the midst of this plain I will let them know who Don Quixote
of La Mancha is, in spite and in the teeth of the enchanters who send them to me."

"So, so," said the gentleman to himself at this; "our worthy knight has shown of what sort
he is; the curds, no doubt, have softened his skull and brought his brains to a head."

At this instant Sancho came up to him, saying, "Señor, for God's sake do something to keep
my master, Don Quixote, from tackling these lions; for if he does they'll tear us all to pieces
here."

"Is your master then so mad," asked the gentleman, "that you believe and are afraid he will
engage such fierce animals?"

"He is not mad," said Sancho, "but he is venturesome."

"I will prevent it," said the gentleman; and going over to Don Quixote, who was insisting upon
the keeper's opening the cages, he said to him, "Sir Knight, knights-errant should attempt
adventures which encourage the hope of a successful issue, not those which entirely withhold
it; for valor that trenches upon temerity savors rather of madness than of courage; moreover,
these lions do not come to oppose you, nor do they dream of such a thing; they are going as
presents to his Majesty, and it will not be right to stop them or delay their journey."

"Gentle sir," replied Don Quixote, "you go and mind your tame partridge and your bold ferret,
and leave every one to manage his own business; this is mine, and I know whether these gentlemen
the lions come to me or not"; and then turning to the keeper he exclaimed, "By all that's good,
sir scoundrel, if you don't open the cages this very instant, I'll pin you to the cart with
this lance."

The carter, seeing the determination of this apparition in armor, said to him, "Please your
worship, for charity's sake, señor, let me unyoke the mules and place myself in safety along
with them before the lions are turned out; for if they kill them on me I am ruined for life,
for all I possess is this cart and mules."

"O man of little faith," replied Don Quixote, "get down and unyoke; you will soon see that
you are exerting yourself for nothing, and that you might have spared yourself the trouble."

The carter got down and with all speed unyoked the mules, and the keeper called out at the
top of his voice, "I call all here to witness that against my will and under compulsion I open
the cages and let the lions loose, and that I warn this gentleman that he will be accountable
for all the harm and mischief which these beasts may do, and for my salary and dues as well.
You, gentlemen, place yourselves in safety before I open, for I know they will do me no harm."

Once more the gentleman strove to persuade Don Quixote not to do such a mad thing, as it was
tempting God to engage in such a piece of folly. To this, Don Quixote replied that he knew
what he was about. The gentleman entreated him to reflect, for he knew he was under a delusion.

"Well, señor," answered Don Quixote, "if you do not like to be a spectator of this tragedy,
as in your opinion it will be, spur your flea-bitten mare and place yourself in safety."

Hearing this, Sancho with tears in his eyes entreated him to give up an enterprise compared
with which the one of the windmills, and the awful one of the fulling mills, and, in fact,
all the feats he had attempted in the whole course of his life, were cakes and fancy bread.
"Look ye, señor," said Sancho, "there's no enchantment here, nor anything of the sort, for
between the bars and chinks of the cage I have seen the paw of a real lion, and judging by
that I reckon the lion such a paw could belong to must be bigger than a mountain."

"Fear, at any rate," replied Don Quixote, "will make him look bigger to thee than half the
world. Retire, Sancho, and leave me; and if I die here thou knowest our old compact; thou wilt
repair to Dulcinea--I say no more." To these he added some further words that banished all
hope of his giving up his insane project. He of the green gaban would have offered resistance,
but he found himself ill-matched as to arms, and did not think it prudent to come to blows
with a madman, for such Don Quixote had shown himself to be in every respect; and the latter,
renewing his commands to the keeper and repeating his threats, gave warning to the gentleman
to spur his mare, Sancho his Dapple, and the carter his mules, all striving to get away from
the cart as far as they could before the lions broke loose. Sancho was weeping over his master's
death, for this time he firmly believed it was in store for him from the claws of the lions;
and he cursed his fate and called it an unlucky hour when he thought of taking service with
him again; but with all his tears and lamentations he did not forget to thrash Dapple so as
to put a good space between himself and the cart. The keeper, seeing that the fugitives were
now some distance off, once more entreated and warned Don Quixote as he had entreated and warned
him before; but he replied that he heard him, and that he need not trouble himself with any
further warnings or entreaties, as they would be fruitless, and bade him make haste.

During the delay that occurred while the keeper was opening the first cage, Don Quixote was
considering whether it would not be well to do battle on foot, instead of on horseback, and
finally resolved to fight on foot, fearing that Rocinante might take fright at the sight of
the lions; he therefore sprang off his horse, flung his lance aside, braced his buckler on
his arm, and drawing his sword, advanced slowly with marvelous intrepidity and resolute courage,
to plant himself in front of the cart, commending himself with all his heart, first to God,
and then to his lady Dulcinea.

The keeper, seeing that Don Quixote had taken up his position, and that it was impossible for
him to avoid letting out the male without incurring the enmity of the fiery and daring knight,
flung open the doors of the first cage, containing, as has been said, the lion, which was now
seen to be of enormous size, and grim and hideous mien. The first thing he did was to turn
round in the cage in which he lay, and protrude his claws, and stretch himself thoroughly;
he next opened his mouth, and yawned very leisurely, and with near two palms'-length of tongue
that he had thrust forth, he licked the dust out of his eyes and washed his face; having done
this, he put his head out of the cage and looked all round with eyes like glowing coals, a
spectacle and demeanor to strike terror into temerity itself. Don Quixote merely observed him
steadily, longing for him to leap from the cart and come to close quarters with him, when he
hoped to hew him in pieces.

