If nothing can begin to exist of itself or by the energy of material nature, it is more consistent
to allow a plurality of Deities, than one immediate Deity. An equality in a plurality of Deities
might be objectionable. But that is not at all necessary, rather the contrary; and so was the
Pagan theory, which is not so absurd as the modern one. This universe or mundane system may
be the work of one hand, another of another, and so on. Where is the absurdity of that? If
the universe is applied to the solar system, there is an appearance of its being formed by
one design, and in that stile it might be said to be the work of one hand. But this Deity is
asserted to be infinite, and to have made all other worlds and universes, though it does not
appear by any unity of design that all other worlds and universes are one work with this.

Dr. Priestley himself allows that reason would drive us to require a cause of the Deity. He
is himself obliged to conclude, after all his reasoning, that we must acquiesce in our inability
of having any idea on the subject; that is, how God could exist without a prior cause. At the
same time he says the Deity cannot have a cause, and therefore we cannot reason about him.
Why then all his own reasoning? "Still we must necessarily rest at a Being that is infinite;"
that is, when our reason drives us to the admission of an infinite cause we must necessarily
stop finitely in our career. Not content with this conclusion he adds, that we cannot help
perceiving the existence of this cause, though he owns that it is not an object of our conceptions.
But even the Theist's argument does not necessarily drive us to the admission of an infinite
cause. The argument is, "because there is a man, and man has intelligence, we must necessarily
admit of a Being of infinitely superior intelligence." Would it not be nearly as well to argue,
"because there is a goose, therefore there must be a man."

What is there more which hinders a series of finite causes to be carried back ad infinitum,
than that the reasoner or contemplator of the course of nature is tired. If this eternal series
could not exist, a Deity might with some propriety be said to follow. Put the argument into
a syslogistic form.

"The universe shews design;"

"It is absurd to suppose an infinite succession of finite causes;"

"Therefore there is an uncaused intelligent cause of this universe."

Deny the second assertion and the problem is destroyed. So far from its being difficult to
suppose an eternity, it is the most difficult thing in the world to suppose any thing but an
eternity. A mind, not afraid to think, will find it the most easy contemplation in the world
to dwell upon. It is at least a bold assertion, that nothing can be more evident than that
plants and animals could not have proceeded from each other by succession from all eternity.
Surely to this may be answered, that it is more evident that two and two make four. But Dr.
Priestley goes on to say, "that the primary cause of a man cannot be a man, any more than the
cause of a sound can be a sound." Experience shews us all sound is an effect of a cause. Does
experience shew us more of a man than that he came from a man and a woman? To allow therefore
that all men must have come from a man and a woman is as far as we can argue upon the subject,
whilst in reasoning we trust to experience. An argument is well built upon similarity, therefore
it is probable if one horse had a cause all horses had. But will not the argument be more consonant
to itself, in supposing all horses had the same cause, and as one is seen to be generated from
a horse and a mare so all were from all eternity. It were a better argument in favour of a
Deity or some invisible agent to shew that a new animal came every now and then into life,
without any body's knowing how or where.

It is allowed by Priestley and all other reasoners, that the most capital argument that can
be formed in support of any thesis is to be built upon experience, or analogy to experience.
Yet will many of these reasoners, Dr. Priestley at least for one, contend at the same time
for the probability of a future life, when no instance can be given of any revival whatsoever.
The same will contend, that their Deity can at pleasure form new species of animals, though
in fact we never do see new beings come into existence. We ought only to argue from experience;
and experience would teach us, that the species of all animals has eternally existed. Grant
that we do not know, whether man has been eternal, or from a time, is it therefore because
we do not know, that we must say he came from God? That unknown Being, as he is sometimes pompously
and ridiculously called! The Devil is equally an unknown Being. The admission of evil under
a good Deity opens a ready door to the manichean system, which seems much more rational than
simple Deism.

The following chain of reasoning, as used by Dr. Priestley, is well linked together to prove
the weight and force of experience in reasoning, but it proves nothing more. "Chairs and tables
are made by men or beings of similar powers, because we see them made by men; and we cannot
suppose them made by a tree or come into being of themselves, because that is against experience.
No one will say one table might make another, or that one man might make another. We see nothing
come into being without an adequate cause." Yet for this adequate cause we are at the same
time referred to a belief in a causeless secret invisible agent, and to our own experience,
for a proof of his nature.

Dr. Priestley allows, that what is visible in man may be the feat of all his powers, for it
is (as he says,) a rule in philosophy not to multiply causes without necessity. But he affirms
that what is visible in the universe cannot be the feat of intelligence. This is breaking the
very rule of reasoning which he himself has chosen to adopt; and he gives no other reason for
it, than because we do not see the universe think as we do man. Sensible of this dilemma, soon
afterwards he inclines to allow principle of thought to the universe, for he adds, that if
we allow it, yet the universe has so much the appearance of other works of design that we must
look out for its author as much as that of a man; and it is allowed that most probably it had
the same author.

Every difficulty vanishes with the energy of nature, or at least is as well accounted for as
from an independent Deity. It is an usual question to those philosophers, who maintain that
the present existence of things is the result of the force and energy of nature acting upon
herself, "why this force does not perpetually operate and produce new appearances?" Besides
that this question may be retorted upon the supporters of a Deity, I am thoroughly persuaded,
that this force is constantly in action, and that every change which animals and vegetables
undergo, whether of dissolution or renovation, is a manifest and undeniable proof of it. Man,
and the other Beings which occupy this terrestrial globe, are evidently suited to its present
state, and an alteration in their habitation, such as that of extreme or excessive heat, would
inevitably destroy them. This is so certain, that bones of animals have been dug up which appertain
to no species now existing, and which must have perished from an alteration in the system of
things taking place too considerable for it to endure. Whenever the globe shall come to that
temperament fit for the life of that lost species, whatever energy in nature produced it originally,
if even it had a beginning, will most probably be sufficient to produce it again. Is not the
reparation of vegitable life the spring equally wonderful now as its first production? Yet
this is a plain effect of the influence of the sun, whose absence would occasion death by a
perpetual winter. So far this question from containing, in my opinion, a formidable difficulty
to the Epicurean system, I cannot help judging the continual mutability of things as an irrefragable
proof of this eternal energy of nature. Those who ask, why the great changes in the state of
things are not more frequent, would absurdly require them to ensue within the short space of
their existence, forgetting that millions of ages are of no importance to the whole mass of
matter, though Beings of some particular forms may find a wish and an advantage to prolong
the term of their duration under that form.

If it is said, Nature or the energy of nature is another name for the Deity, then may Dr. Priestley
and his answerer shake hands; the one is no more an atheist than the other. And if it is observed
that the Energy of Nature having produced men may be capable of re-producing them, so that
an atheist is not sure to escape punishment for his crimes, it is easy to say in return, neither
is a Deist sure. A good atheist has no more reason to be afraid to be re-produced than a good
Deist or a Christian. It may be useful for both of them to be good. If necessary let it again
be repeated, that it is not at all meant in this answer to make atheism a plea or protection
for immorality. That is a charge long and most unjustly put upon the poor undefended atheist.
The knowledge of a God and even the belief of a providence are found but too slight a barrier
against human passions, which are apt to fly out as licentiously as they would otherwise have
done. All, which this creed can in reality produce, scarce goes beyond some exterior exercises,
which are vainly thought to reconcile man to God. It may make men build temples, sacrifice
victims, offer up prayers, or perform something of the like nature; but never break a criminal
intrigue, restore an ill gotten wealth, or mortify the lust of man. Lust being the source of
every crime, it is evident (since it reigns as much among idolaters and anthropomorphites,
as among atheists) idolaters and anthropomorphites must be as susceptible of all of crimes
as atheists, and neither the one set nor the other could form societies, did not a curb, stronger
then that of religion, namely human laws, repress their perverseness. If no other remedy were
applied to vice than the remonstrances of divines, a great city such as London, would in a
fortnight's time, fall into the most horrid disorders. Whatever may be the difference of faith,
vice predominates alike with the Christian and the Jew, with the Deist and the atheist. So
like are they in their actions, that one would think they copied one another. Religion may
make men follow ceremonies; little is the inconvenience found in them. A great triumph truly
for religion to make men baptise or fast? When did it make men do virtuous actions for virtue's
sake, or practise fewer inventions to get rich, where riches could not be acquired without
poverty to others? The true principle most commonly seen in human actions, and which philosophy
will cure sooner than religion, is the natural inclination of man for pleasure, or a taste
contracted for certain objects by prejudice and habit. These prevail in whatsoever faith a
man is educated, or with whatever knowledge he may store his mind.

But it will be said, those who commit crimes are atheists at the time at least they do so.
But an atheist cannot be superstitious, and criminals are often so at the very moment of their
crimes. Religious persuasion men are not doubted to have when they vent their rage upon others
of a different way of thinking, when they express a dread of danger or a zeal for ceremonies.
These at least are not virtues; and few indeed must be those, who at any time are really Theists,
if their faith is lost or forgotten every time they have a mind to indulge a vitious passion.
To support still the efficacy of religion in making men virtuous is to oppose metaphysical
reasoning to the truth of fact; it is like the philosopher denying motion, and being refuted
by one of his scholars walking across the room. If then it is true, as history and the whole
course of human life shew it is, that men can still plunge themselves into all sorts of crimes,
though they are persuaded of the truth of religion, which is made to inform them that God punishes
sin and rewards good actions, it cannot but be suspected that religion even encourages crimes,
by the hopes it gives of pardon through the efficacy of prayer; at all events it must be granted,
that those who hold up a belief in God as a sufficient proof and character of a good life are
most egregiously mistaken.

Some Theists may have lighter sense of personal dignity than some atheists. If the Theist thinks
himself allied to and connected with the Deity he may plume himself upon his station; but how
apt are those worshipers of a God, instead of having a high sense of personal dignity, to debase
themselves into the most abject beings, dreading even the shadow of their own phantom. An atheist
feeling himself to be a link in the grand chain of Nature, feels his relative importance and
dreads no imaginary Being. An atheist, who is so from inattention and without intelligence,
may indeed feel himself as much debased as the meanest and most humble Theist.

Another argument against atheists is, that where men are atheists it is generally found that
their usual turn of thinking and habits of life have inclined to make them so. Is not this
to be turned upon Theists? But granting that the idea of a supreme author is more pleasing,
and that the argument with respect to the existence or non-existence of a God was in equilibrio,
it is not therefore right to conclude that the mind ought to be determined by this or any other
bias. Nor is it quite clear if there is no God (by which term let it again be noticed, is meant
a Being of supreme intelligence, the contriver of the material universe and yet no part of
the material system) that the world in which man inhabits is either fatherless or deserted.
The wisdom of nature supplies in reality what is only hoped for from the protection of the
Deity. If the world has so good a mother, a father may well be spared especially such a haughty
jealous, and vindictive one as God is most generally represented to be. Dr. Priestley being
clear in his opinion; that the being of a God is capable of being proved by reason, is not
so weak as some of his fellow-labourers, who hold the powers of reason in so low estimation
as to be incapable of themselves to arrive at almost any truth. He must however allow, if reason
proves a Deity and his attributes there was less use of revelation to prove them. But the learned
advocates of a Deity differ greatly among themselves, whether his existence is capable of being
ascertained by fixt principles of reason. After such a difference and the instance of so many
great men in all ages, from Democritus downward, who have confidently denied the being of a
God, whose arguments the learned Dr. Cudworth, in the last century, only by fully and fairly
stating, with all the answers in his power to give (though his zeal in religion was never doubted)
was thought by other divines to have given a weight to atheism not well to be overturned, it
is surprising that it should be the common belief of this day, that an argument in support
of atheism cannot stand a moment, and that even no man in his senses can ever hold such a doctrine.
All that Epicurus and Lucretius have so greatly and convincingly said is swept away in a moment
by these better reasoners, who yet scruple not to declare, with Dr. Priestley, that what they
reason about is not the subject of human understanding. But let it be asked, is it not absurd
to reason with a man about that of which that same man asserts we have no idea at all? Yet
will Dr. Priestley argue, and say it is of no importance, whether the person with whom he argues
has a conception or not of the subject. "Having no ideas includes no impossibility," therefore
he goes on with his career of words to argue about an unseen being with another whom he will
allow to have no idea of the subject and yet it shall be of no avail in the dispute, whether
he has or no, or whether he is capable or incapable of having any. Reason failing, the passions
are called upon, and the imagined God is represented at one time, with all the terrors of a
revengeful tyrant, at another with all the tenderness of an affectionate parent. Shall then
such a tremendous Being with such a care for the creatures he has made, suffer his own existence
to be a perpetual doubt? If the course of nature does not give sufficient proof, why does not
the hand divine shew itself by an extraordinary interposition of power? It is allowed miracles
ought not to be cheap or plenty. One or two at least every thousand years might be admitted.
But this is a perpetual standing miracle, that such a Being as the depicted God, the author
of nature and all its works, should exist and yet his existence be perpetually in doubt, or
require a Jesus, a Mahomet or a Priestley to reveal it. Is not the writing of this very answer
to the last of those three great luminaries of religion a proof, that no God, or no such God
at least, exists. Hear the admirable words of the author of "The System of Nature;" Comment
permet il qu'un mortel comme moi ose attaquer ses droits, ses titres, son existence meme?

Dr. Clarke, Mr. Hume and Helvetius, are writers whose arguments for and against a Godhead Dr.
Priestley has much noted. The former says, "the Deity must have been infinite, if self-existent,
because all things in the universe are made by him." Are all things in the universe infinite?
Why an infinite maker of a finite work? It is juster to argue, that whatever is self-existent
must have been eternal. Nor is there any great objection to the converse of the proposition
properly taken, that whatever is not self-existent must have been created and therefore cannot
have been eternal. If this is fair arguing, matter cannot according to Dr. Priestley's system
have been created and be eternal also. But Dr. Priestley has no inclination to reconcile his
opinions with those of Dr. Clarke. He has chosen a fairer method, and that is, to refute the
arguments of former asserters of a Deity as well as to establish his own. Dr. Clarke he most
effectually exposes where he enters upon the subject of space. It seems as if Dr. Clarke, having
asserted that the Deity necessarily existed, had a mind that nothing else should necessarily
exist but the Deity; and conscious that space at least also necessarily existed, he makes universal
space an attribute of the Deity. With this reverie in his head he raises a syllogism of complete
nonsense (vide Priestley's Letters, P. 170.) where he supposes space to be nothing though he
also supposes it to be an attribute of the Deity. Making it therefore an attribute of the Deity
and knowing that space is eternal and unmeasurable he takes upon himself thereby also clearly
to have proved that the Deity is so. Exclude the Deity, space will still exist and still be
eternal and immense. Dr. Priestley knew well that Dr. Clarke's argument in this respect was
all a fallacy, and therefore he shews his sense in not adopting it. It is in fact an abuse
of terms unworthy of a scientific reasoner.

The only argument attempted by Dr. Clarke, why the Deity must have had no cause, is, because
it is necessary he should have none. Dr. Clarke says roundly that necessity is the cause of
the existence of the Deity. This is very near the language of the ancients, who held that Fate
controuled the Gods. Necessity is therefore the first God. Why then any other God than Necessity?
What more has Helvetius said than that?

It is an old and unanswerable argument that, granting a God and his power infinite, whatever
he wills is executed; but man and other animals are unhappy, therefore he does not will they
should be happy. Or take the argument the other way and it will equally conclude against his
power. With regard to Mr. Hume's famous observations upon the evidence of miracles, Dr. Priestley
thinks to make a short havock of them by observing that new, and therefore miraculous appearances,
are continually presenting themselves; but although such new appearances may be instanced,
they are not contrary to former experience, only in addition to it. With this allusion to Natural
Philosophy, Dr. Priestley thinks himself in one short sentence to have discussed all Mr. Hume's
observations upon miracles. "Which is more likely, that the relater of a miracle should have
lied or been deceived, or that the thing related should have existed contrary to experience
prior and subsequent?" Let the force of this observation be considered and believe in the history
of miracles who can! To give a finishing stroke to poor Mr. Hume, Dr. Priestley observes that
literary fame was Hume's only motive and consolation, as he said himself, in all his laborious
enquiries and enlightened writings. At this he exclaims, "What gloomy prospect and poor comfort
he must have had at his death!" If so, how much was he the greater man so well to have gone
through that last scene!

The honour which Dr. Priestley gives to Helvetius, the author of that ingenious and satisfactory
work intitled "The System of Nature," does credit to his own candour. He applauds him for speaking
out, he ought therefore to applaud this answer for the same reason. It is true he seems to
have discovered one incongruity in the reasoning of Helvetius. The words he imputes to him
are, "that nature has no object, because nature acts necessarily; man has an object; yet man
also acts necessarily." In the same way nature might have an object though it acted necessarily.
But Helvetius adds, that the object which man has is a necessary object. The best defence of
Helvetius (not in behalf of that passage, but of his general system) is to let him speak at
large for himself; and the following quotation Dr. Priestley and the reader may accept as a
specimen of the strength and justice of his argument, and as the conclusion of this answer.

"Theologians tell us, that the disorder and evil, which is seen in the world, is not absolute
and real, but relatively and apparently such, and does not disprove the divine wisdom and goodness.
But may not one reply, that the goodness and wonderful order which they so much extol, and
on which they found their notions of those qualities in God, are in a similar way only relative
and apparent. If it be only our co-existence with the causes which surround us, and our manner
of perceiving them, that constitute the order of nature for us, and authorise us to attribute
wisdom and goodness to the maker of what surround us, should not also our mode of existence
and perception authorise us to call what is hurtful to us disorder, and to attribute impotence,
ignorance, or malice, to that Being which we would suppose to actuate nature.

