The President recommended the removal of restrictions upon the importation of the raw materials
necessary to our manufactures. The tariff bill, as it passed, imposed duties on nearly all
raw materials except wool.  This important product of the farmer was made duty free.  I made
every effort to prevent this injustice. Free wool was the culminating atrocity of the tariff
law.  By it a revenue of over eight millions a year was surrendered for the benefit of woolen
manufacturers.  I appealed to the Senate to give some protection to this great industry of
our country.  It was generally classed as the fifth of the industries of the United States,
including the manufacture of woolens, and I have no doubt it fully came up to that grade. 
Over a million farmers were engaged in the growth of wool.  It involved an annual product estimated
at $125,000,000 under the former prices, but probably under the prices after the passage of
the Wilson bill it was reduced to about eighty or ninety million dollars.  It was, therefore,
a great industry. And yet it was left solitary and alone without the slightest protection given
to it directly or indirectly.  The manufacture of woolen goods was amply protected.  Amendments
were proposed and adopted without dissent, adding largely to the protection at first proposed
on manufactures of wool.

The value of the wool in woolen goods as a rule is equal to the cost of manufacturing the cloth.
The duty on cloth under this law averages 40 per cent., so that the domestic manufacturer of
cloth gets the benefit not only of a duty of 40 per cent. on the cost of manufacture, but he
gets a duty of 40 per cent. on the cost of the wool in the cloth, thus getting a protection
of 80 per cent. on the cost of manufacture, while the farmer gets no protection against foreign
competition for his labor and care.  This gross injustice is done under the name of free raw
materials.  When I appealed to the Senate for a duty on wool I was answered by one Senator
that free wool was all that was left in the bill of the Democratic doctrines of free raw materials,
and, if only for this reason, must be retained.  I made two speeches in support of a duty,
but was met by a united party vote, every Democrat against it and every Republican for it.
In the next tariff bill I hope this decision will be reversed.

On the 31st of May, 1894, I made a long speech in favor of the McKinley law and against the
Wilson bill.  While the McKinley law largely reduced the taxes and duties under pre-existing
laws, yet it furnished ample revenue to support the government.  The object of the act was
declared to be to reduce the revenue.  It was impartial to all sections and to all industries.
The south was well cared for in it, and every reasonable degree of protection was given to
that section.  In growing industries in the north, which it is desirable to encourage, an increase
of duty was given. In nearly all the older industries the rates were reduced, and the result
was a reduction of revenue to the extent of $30,000,000. There was no discrimination made in
the McKinley act between agriculture and mechanical industries.  The Wilson bill sacrificed
the interests of every farmer in the United States, except probably the growers of rice and
of fruit in the south.  The McKinley act, I believe, was the most carefully framed, especially
in its operative clauses and its classification of duties, of any tariff bill ever passed by
the Congress of the United States.

It has been said that the McKinley act was the cause of the deficiency of revenue that commenced
about three years after its passage. That is a mistake.  Until Mr. Cleveland was sworn into
office, March 4, 1893, there was no want of revenue to carry on the operations of the government.
Until July, 1893, there was a surplus of revenue, and not a deficiency.  The receipts during
the fiscal years ending June 30, 1891, 1892, 1893, under the McKinley act, furnished ample
means for the support of the government, and it was not until after Cleveland had been elected,
and when there was a great fear and dread all over the country that our industries would be
disturbed by tariff legislation, that the revenues fell off.  The surplus in 1891 was $37,000,000;
in 1892, in the midst of the election, it was $9,914,000, and in 1893, up to June 30, the surplus
revenue was $2,341,000.  Yet in a single year afterwards, after this attempt to tinker with
the tariff had commenced, after the announcement as to the tariff had been made by Mr. Cleveland,
after the general fear that sprang up in the country in regard to tariff legislation, the revenues
under the McKinley act fell off over $66,000,000, and the deficiency of that year was $66,542,000.

I believe that if Harrison had been elected President of the United States the McKinley act
would have furnished ample revenue for the support of the government, because then there would
have been no fear of disturbance of the protected industries of our country. Cleveland's election
created the disturbances that followed it. The fear of radical changes in the tariff law was
the basis of them.  That law caused the falling of prices, the stagnation of some industries,
and the suspension of others.  No doubt the fall in the value of silver and the increased demand
for gold largely precipitated and added to the other evils that I have mentioned.

If when Congress met in December, 1893, there had been a disposition on the part of both sides
to take up the tariff question and discuss it and consider it as a pure question of finance,
there would have been no difficulty with the Republicans.  We were all ready to revise the
rates contained in the McKinley tariff act.  The body of that act had been embodied in the
Wilson bill as part of the proposed law.  Nearly all of the working machinery of the collection
of customs, framed carefully under the experienced eye of Senator Allison, is still retained.
All the schedules, the formal parts of the act, which are so material, and the designation
into classes --all those matters which are so complicated and difficult to an ordinary lawyer
or an ordinary statesman, have been retained.

If the bill had been taken up in the spirit in which it should have been, and if an impartial
committee of both parties in the Senate and the House had gone over it, item by item, it would
have passed in thirty days without trouble.  That was not the purpose; it was not the object,
and it was not the actual result.

During the long session of 1893-94 I was the subject of much controversy, debate, censure and
praise.  While distinctly a Republican, and strongly attached to that party, I supported, with
the exception of the tariff law, the financial policy of the President and Secretary Carlisle.
Mr. Cleveland was a positive force in sustaining all measures in support of the public credit.
Mr. Carlisle, who as a Member and Senator had not been always equally positive on these measures,
yet was regarded as a conservative advocate of a sound financial policy, readily and heartily
supported the President in his recommendations.  As these were in harmony with my convictions
I found myself indorsing them as against a majority of the Democratic Senators.  My Republican
colleagues, with scarcely an exception, favored the same policy.

On the 16th of June, 1894, I was notified by William E. Spencer, the experienced journal clerk
of the Senate, that I that day had reached a term of service in the Senate equal in length
to that of Thomas Benton, whose service had previously held first rank in duration, covering
the period from December 6, 1821, to March 3, 1851, making 29 years, 2 months and 27 days.
I had entered the Senate March 23, 1861, and served continuously until March 8, 1877, making
15 years, 11 months and 15 days, when I entered the cabinet of President Hayes.  My second
term of service in the Senate began March 4, 1881, and has continued until the present time.
My service since June 16, 1894, is in excess of that of Benton.

On the 4th of July, 1894, the Sons of the American Revolution celebrated the day by a ceremony
held literally in the shadow of the Washington monument.  There, at the base of the great shaft,
the members and friends of this organization and several chapters of the Daughters of the Revolution
gathered at 10 o'clock to listen to patriotic addresses.  The societies had been escorted from
the Arlington hotel by the Marine Band, and gathered in seats around a grand stand while a
battery of artillery welcomed them with a salute.  The band played national hymns, and the
audience sang "America."  General Breckinridge introduced me and I was heartily greeted.  After
narrating the principal events of the American Revolution, and especially incidents connected
with the Declaration of American Independence, I said:

"It is a marvel of the world that these humble colonies, composed of plain men, for there were
no nobles or rich men in those times, furnished genius which brought to mankind greater wisdom
in the framing of a government than ever elsewhere existed.  It was of these men that Lord
Chatham said that they had prepared papers stronger than ever emanated from any court of Europe.
Our country was built up on intelligence, obedience to law, desire for freedom and the equal
enjoyment of rights.  Those who are gathered here to- day are classified as sons and daughters
of the Revolution, and therefore they are under deeper obligations to be true and patriotic
citizens."

I then spoke of the character of our people and our institutions, and the Civil War, happily
ended, and the increasing strength and power of the republic.  I narrated how the Washington
monument came to be completed.  I said it was true it cost a million of dollars, but what was
that to 65,000,000 people!  The occasion was enjoyable, the speeches were suitable for the
4th of July, patriotism and love of country being the watchwords.

On the 28th of August, 1894, the second session of the 53rd Congress closed.  It was a laborious
session.  Its principal act was a measure that did not satisfy anyone.  It laid the foundations
for insufficient revenue, an increase of the public debt and the general defeat of the party
in power.

