 It is in marriage, in the sane and
normal activities of that unit of our whole social system--the family--that reproduction develops
nature's basic principle of perpetuation in the highest and worthiest manner, in obedience
to laws humane and divine.

                              CHAPTER II

                THE TRANSITION FROM CELL TO HUMAN BEING

In the functional processes alluded to in the preceding chapter, the male germ-cell and the
female germ-cell unite in a practically equal division of substance. We say "practically" because
the maternal and the paternal influences are not equally divided in the offspring. One or the
other usually predominates. But, as a general rule, it may be said that in the development
of the embryonal life the process of cell division proceeds in such a way that every germ of
the child's future organism represents approximately one-half maternal and one-half paternal
substance and energy.

In this process lies the true secret of heredity. The inherited energies retain their full
measure of power, and all their original quality in the growing and dividing chromosomes (the
chromosome is one of the segments into which the chromoplasmic filaments of a cell-nucleus
break up just before indirect division). On the other hand, the egg-substance of the female
germ-cell, which is assimilated by the chromosomes, and which is turned into their substance
by the process of organic chemistry, loses its specific plastic vital energy completely. It
is in the same way that food eaten by the adult has absolutely no effect on his qualitative
organic structure. We may eat ever so many beef-steaks without acquiring any of the characteristics
of an ox. And the germ-cell may devour any amount of egg-protoplasma without losing its original
paternal energy. As a rule a child inherits as many qualities from its mother as from its father.

                         DETERMINATION OF SEX

Sex is determined after conception has taken place. At an early stage of the embryo certain
cells are set apart. These, later, form the sex glands. Modern research claims to have discovered
the secret of absolutely determining sex in the human embryo, but even if these claims are
valid they have not as yet met with any general application.

                           EARLY DEVELOPMENT

Some twelve days after conception, the female ovule or egg, which has been impregnated by the
male spermatazoön, escapes from the ovary where it was impregnated, and entering a tube (Fallopian)
gradually descends by means of it into the cavity of the womb or uterus. Here the little germ
begins to mature in order to develop into an exact counterpart of its parents. In the human
being the womb has only a single cavity, and usually develops but a single embryo.

                                 TWINS

Sometimes two ovules are matured at the same time. If fecundated, two embryos instead of one
will develop, producing twins. Triplets and quadruplets, the results of the maturing of three
or four ovules at the same time, occur more rarely. As many as five children have been born
alive at a single birth, but have seldom lived for more than a few minutes.

                               GESTATION

The development of the ovule in the womb is known as gestation or pregnancy. The process is
one of continued cell division and growth, and while it goes on the ovule sticks to the inner
wall of the womb. There it is soon enveloped by a mucous membrane, which grows around it and
incloses it.

                              THE EMBRYO

The Primitive Trace, a delicate straight line appearing on the surface of the growing layer
of cells is the base of the embryonic spinal column. Around this the whole embryo develops
in an intricate process of cell division and duplication. One end of the Primitive Trace becomes
the head, the other the tail, for every human being has a tail at this stage of his existence.
The neck is marked by a slight depression; the body by a swollen center. Soon little buds or
"pads" appear in the proper positions. These represent arms and legs, whose ends, finally,
split up into fingers and toes. The embryonic human being has been steadily increasing in size,
meanwhile. By the fifth week the heart and lungs are present in a rudimentary form, and ears
and face are distinctly outlined. During the seventh week the kidneys are formed, and a little
later the genital organs. At two months, though sex is not determined as yet, eyes and nose
are visible, the mouth is gaping, and the skin can be distinguished. At ten weeks the sexual
organs form more definitely, and in the third month sex can be definitely determined.

                              THE FOETUS

At the end of its fourth month the embryo--now four or five inches long and weighing about
an ounce--is promoted. It receives the name of foetus. Hairs appear on the scalp, the eyes
are provided with lids, the tongue appears far back in the mouth. The movements of the foetus
are plainly felt by the mother. If born at this time it lives but a few minutes. It continues
to gain rapidly in weight. By the sixth month the nails are solid, the liver large and red,
and there is fluid in the gall bladder. The seventh month finds the foetus from twelve and
a half to fourteen inches long, and weighing about fifty-five ounces. It is now well proportioned,
the bones of the cranium, formerly flat, are arched. All its parts are well defined, and it
can live if born. By the end of the eighth month the foetus has thickened out. Its skin is
red and covered by a delicate down; the lower jaw has grown to the same length as the upper
one. The convolutions of the brain structure also appear during this month.

                      PLACENTA AND UMBILICAL CORD

During gestation the unborn infant has been supplied with air and nourishment by the mother.
An organ called the Placenta, a spongy growth of blood vessels, develops on the inner point
of the womb. To this organ the growing foetus is moored by a species of cable, the Umbilical
Cord. This cord, also made up mainly of blood vessels, carries the blood of the foetus to and
from the Placenta, absorbing it through the thin walls which separate it from the mother's
blood. Only through her blood can the mother influence the child, since the Umbilical Cord
contains no nerves. The Umbilical Cord, attached to the body of the child at the navel, is
cut at birth, and with the Placenta is expelled from the womb soon after the child has been
born. Together with the Placenta it forms a shapeless mass, familiarly known as the "afterbirth,"
and when it is retained instead of being expelled is apt to cause serious trouble.

                       CHILDBIRTH OR PARTURITION

At nine month's time the foetus is violently thrust from that laboratory of nature in which
it has formed. It is born, and comes into the world as a child. Considering the ordinary size
of the generative passages, the expelling of the foetus from the womb would seem impossible.
But Nature, during those months in which she enlarged the womb to hold its gradually increasing
contents, has also increased the generative passages in size. She has made them soft and distensible,
so that an apparent physical impossibility could take place, though it is often accompanied
by intense suffering. Modern medical science has made childbirth easier, but the act of childbirth
is usually accompanied by more or less suffering. Excessive pain, however, is often the result
of causes which proper treatment can remove before and at the time of confinement.

                            TWILIGHT SLEEP

The so-called "Twilight Sleep," a modern development, by which the pangs of childbirth are
obviated by the administration of drugs or by hypnotic suggestion, has its opponents and defenders.
The advantage of a painless childbirth, upon which the mother can look back as on a dream,
is evident. The "Twilight Sleep" process has been used with the happiest results both for parent
and child. Opponents of this system declare that the use of powerful drugs may injure the child.
A method commended is the administration of a mixture of laughing gas and oxygen, which relieves
the mother and does not affect the child.

                          THE NEW-BORN INFANT

The average weight of the new-born child is about seven and a half pounds. It is insensitive
to pain for the first few days, and seems deaf (since its middle ears are filled with a thick
mucus) for the first two weeks. During the first few days, too, it does not seem able to see.
The first month of its existence is purely automatic. Evidences of dawning intelligence appear
in the second month and at four months it will recognize mother or nurse. Muscularly it is
poorly developed. Not until two months old is it able to hold up its head, and not until three
months does voluntary muscular movement put in an appearance. The new-born's first self-conscious
act is to draw breath. Deprived of its usual means of supply it must breathe or suffocate.
Its next is to suck milk, lest it starve.

                               HEREDITY

We often find children who offer a striking resemblance to a paternal grandfather, a maternal
aunt or a maternal great-grandmother. This is known as atavism. There are many curious variations
with regard to the inheritance of ancestral traits. Some children show a remarkable resemblance
to their fathers in childhood, others to their mothers. And many qualities of certain individual
ancestors appear quite suddenly late in life. Everything may be inherited, from the most delicate
shadings of the disposition, the intelligence and the will power, to the least details of hair,
nails and bone structure, etc. And the combination of the qualities of one's ancestors in heredity
is so manifold and so unequal that it is extremely difficult to arrive at fixed conclusions
regarding it. Hereditary traits and tendencies are developed out of the energies of the original
conjugated germ-cells throughout life, up to the very day of death. Even aged men often show
peculiarities in the evening of their life which may be clearly recognized as inherited, and
duplicating others shown by their forbears at the same period of life.

As has already been mentioned every individual inherits, generally speaking, as much from his
paternal as from his maternal progenitors. This in spite of the fact that the tiny paternal
germ-cell is the only medium of transmission of the paternal qualities, while the mother furnishes
the much larger egg-cell, and feeds him throughout the embryonic period.

                              THE ENGRAM

An interesting theory maintains that the external impressions made upon an organism which reacts
to them and receives them, might be called engrams or "inscriptions." Thus the impression of
some object we have seen or touched (let us say we have seen a lion) may remain engraved on
our mind as an impression. Hence every memory picture is one of engrams, whether the impression
is a conscious one or an unconscious one. According to this same theory the reawakening of
an older impression is an ecphory. Some new stimulation may thus ecphorate an old engram. Now
the entire embryonal development of the human child is in reality no more than a continuous
process of ecphoration of old engrams, one after another. And the entire complex of our living
human organism is made up entirely of these energy-complexes engraved on our consciousness
or subconsciousness. The sum total of all these engrams, in a living human being, according
to the theory advanced, is given the name of mnema. That which the child receives in the way
of energies contained in the germ-cells from its ancestors is his hereditary mnema. And that
which he acquires in the course of his own individual life is his acquired or individual mnema.

                              CHAPTER III

                         SEX IN MALE CHILDHOOD

                            (FROM 14 TO 16)

During the first years of child life all those laws of practical hygiene which make for good
health should be carefully observed. Every organ of the body should be carefully protected,
even at this early age. The genital organs, especially, should not be rubbed or handled under
any pretext, beyond what is absolutely necessary for cleanliness. The organs of generation,
which we are apt to treat as nonexistent in children, just because they are children, claim
just as much watchful care as any others.

                      SEX PRECAUTIONS IN INFANCY

Even in infancy, the diaper should fit easily about the organs which it covers, so as not to
give rise to undue friction or heating of the parts. And for the same reason it should always
be changed immediately after urination or a movement of the bowels. No material which prevents
the escape of perspiration, urine or fecal matter should be employed for a diaper. The use
of a chair-commode as early as the end of the first year is highly to be commended, as being
more comfortable for the sex organs and healthier for the child. It favors, in particular,
a more perfect development of limbs and hip joints.

                         EARLY SEX IMPRESSIONS

Sex impressions and reactions are apt to develop at an early age, especially in the case of
boys. If the child's physical health is normal, however, they should not affect his mind or
body. The growing boy should be encouraged to take his sex questions and sex problems to his
parents (in his case preferably the father) for explanation. Thus they may be made clear to
him naturally and logically. He should not be told what he soon discovers is not true: that
babies are "dug up with a silver spade," or make their appearances in the family thanks to
the kind offices of storks or angels. Instead, by analogy with the reproductive processes of
all nature, the true facts of sex may be explained to him in a soothing and normal way.

                          EVIL COMMUNICATIONS

Too often, the growing boy receives his first lessons regarding sex from ignorant and vicious
associates. Curiosity is one of the greatest natural factors in the child's proper development,
if rightly directed. When wrongly led, however, it may have the worst consequences. Even before
puberty occurs, a boy's attention may be quite naturally drawn to his own sex organs.

               NATURAL CAUSES OF INFANT SEXUAL PRECOCITY

Sexual precocity in boys may be natural or it may be artificially called forth. Among natural
causes which develop sex precocity is promiscuous playing with other boys and girls for hours
without supervision. It may also be produced by playful repose on the stomach, sliding down
banisters, going too long without urinating, by constipation or straining at stool, irritant
cutaneous affections, and rectal worms. Sliding down banisters, for instance, produces a titillation.
The act may be repeated until inveterate masturbation results, even at an early age. Needless
laving, handling and rubbing of the private parts is another natural incitement to sexual precocity.

                               PRIAPISM

Priapism is a disease which boys often develop. It may be either a result or a cause of sexual
precocity, and may come from undue handling of the genital parts or from a morbid state of
health. It takes the form of paroxysms, more or less frequent, and of violent and often painful
erection, calling for a physician's attention. If the result of a functional disorder, and
not arrested, it is in danger of giving rise to masturbation. This morbid condition sometimes
seriously impairs the health.

                             MASTURBATION

Masturbation, the habit of self-abuse, often formed before puberty, is an artificial development
of sexual precocity. Most boys, from the age of nine to fourteen, interest themselves in sex
questions and matters, but these are usually presented to them in a lewd and improper manner,
by improperly informed companions. Dwelling upon these thoughts the boy is led to play with
his sex organs in secret and masturbation results. A secret vice of the most dangerous kind,
masturbation or self-pollution is often taught by older boys and takes place, to quote an authority
"in many of our colleges, boarding, public and private schools," and is also indulged in by
companions beneath the home roof. If it becomes habitual, generally impaired health, and often
epilepsy, and total moral and physical degradation results. Stains on the nightshirt or sheet
occurring before puberty are absolute evidence of the vice in boys.

                 WHAT FATHERS SHOULD DO FOR THEIR BOYS

Make sex facts clear to your boy as interesting, matter-of-fact developments of general natural
laws. Ungratified or improperly gratified curiosity is what leads to a young boy's overemphasizing
the facts of sex as they apply to him. Make him your confidant. Teach him to think cleanly
and to act cleanly, neither to ignore nor to exalt the sexual. Especially, when he himself
is directly disturbed sexually, either in a mental or physical way, let him feel that he can
apply to you naturally for relief and explanation. If this be done, your boy's sex development
before puberty will be natural and normal, and when the more serious and difficult problems
of adolescence present themselves, he will be prepared to handle them on the basis of right
thinking and right living. Natural and healthy sport in the open air, and the avoidance of
foul language and indecency should be stressed. The use of alcohol, coffee and tea by children
tends to weaken their sexual organs. Every boy should know that chastity means continence.
He should know that lascivious thoughts lead to lascivious actions, and that these are a drain
on his system which may spoil his life in later years.

In the education of his children the average man is only too apt to repeat the same mistake
of unconsciously crediting the child with the possession of his own feelings and his own outlook,
that is the feelings and outlook of the adult. In general, things which may make an impression
in a sex way on the adult are a matter of indifference to the sexually unripe boy. Hence it
is quite possible for a father to discuss sex matters with his young son and inform him constructively,
without in any undue way rousing his sex curiosity or awakening desire. Such talks, of course,
should be in accordance with the principles already laid down in the section on "Reproduction."

If a boy is accustomed and taught to regard sex conditions and matters in a proper and innocent
manner, as something perfectly natural, improper curiosity and eroticism are far less likely
to be aroused than when this is not the case. For the whole subject will have lost the dangerous
attraction of novelty. On the other hand, we find boys who have been brought up with great
prudery and in complete ignorance of sex matters (save that which may come to them from impure
sources) greatly excited and ashamed by the first appearance of the indications of puberty.
Secrecy is the enemy of a clean, normal conception on the part of the child as to the right
place sex and the sex function play in life and in the world. It stands to reason, of course,
that every least detail of the sex question cannot be intelligently made clear to a little
child. But his questions should all be answered, honestly, and with due regard for his age
and his capacity to understand what is explained to him.

One very great advantage of an early paternal explanation of sex matters to the boy is its
beneficial effect on the mind and the nerves. Many boys brood or grow melancholy when confronted
with sex riddles and problems for which they are unable to find a solution; and as the result
of totally erroneous ideas they may have formed with regard to sex matters. At the same time
too much attention should not be paid the discussion of sex questions between father and son.
A father should, so far as possible, endeavor to develop other interests and preoccupations
in his boy, and turn his mind as much as may be away from matters sexual, until the age when
the youth is ripe for marriage is reached.

                              CHAPTER IV

                        SEX IN FEMALE CHILDHOOD

                            (FROM 12 TO 14)

What has been said in general about practical observance of the laws of sex hygiene in the
preceding chapter for boys, applies to girls as well. If anything the sex precautions taken
in infancy should be even more closely followed, as girls are by nature less robust than boys.
If children could be raised in entire accordance with natural laws, the sexual instinct of
girls as well as boys would probably remain dormant during the period stretching from infancy
to puberty. As in the case of the boy, so in that of the girl, any manifestation of sexual
precocity should be investigated, to see whether it be due to natural or artificial causes.
In either case the proper remedies should be applied.

                        SEX PRECOCITY IN GIRLS

There are cases of extraordinary sex precocity in girls. One case reported in the United States
was that of a female child who at birth possessed all the characteristics usually developed
at puberty. In this case the natural periodical changes began at birth! Fortunately, this is
a case more or less unique. In little girls and boys undue sexual handling or titillating of
their genital organs tends to quiet them, so nurses (let us hope in ignorance of the consequences!)
often resort to it. Sending children to bed very early, to "get rid of them," or confining
them in a room by themselves, tends to encourage the development of vicious habits. A single
bed, both in the school and in the home, is indispensable to purity of morals and personal
cleanliness. It tends to restrain too early development of the sexual instinct both in small
girls and small boys.

                      SEXUAL SELF-ABUSE IN GIRLS

Small girls, like small boys, display an intelligent curiosity as regards the phenomena of
sex at an early age. And what has already been said regarding its improper gratification in
the preceding chapter, so far as boys are concerned, applies with equal force to them. In their
case, however, the mother is a girl's natural confidant and friend. Self-abuse in one or another
form is as common in the case of the girl as in that of the boy. As a rule, girls who live
an outdoor life, and work with their muscles more than their mind, do not develop undue precocious
sexual curiosities or desires. At least they do not do so to the same extent as those more
nervously and susceptibly constituted. The less delicate and sensitive children of the country
tend less to these habits than their more sensitively organized city brothers and sisters.
Girls who have formed vicious habits are apt to indulge in the practice of self-abuse at night
when going to bed. If there is cause for suspicion, the bedclothes should be quickly and suddenly
thrown off under some pretense. Self-abuse usually has a marked effect on the genital organs
of girls. The inner organs become unnaturally enlarged and distended, and leucorrhea, catarrh
of the vagina, attended by a discharge of greenish-white mucus, often develops.

                    RESULTS OF SELF-ABUSE IN GIRLS

Local diseases, due to this cause, result in girls as well as boys. Temporary congestions become
permanent, and develop into permanent irritations and disorders. Leucorrhea has already been
mentioned. Contact with the acrid, irritating internal secretions also causes soreness of the
fingers at the root of the nails, and warts. Congestion and other diseases are other ultimate
results of the habit; and these congestions to which it gives rise unduly hasten the advent
of puberty. Any decided enlargement of the labia and clitoris in a young girl may be taken
as a positive evidence of the existence of the habit of self-abuse. Sterility, and atrophy
of the breasts--their deficient development--when the vice is begun before puberty, is another
result.

               PRURITIS AND FEMININE NOCTURNAL EMISSIONS

Pruritis (itching genitals), though not necessarily caused by self-abuse, may be one of its
consequences. Continued congestion causes the genital parts to itch terribly. This itching
increases until the desire to manipulate the genitals becomes irresistible. It will then be
indulged in even in the presence of strangers, though the girl in question at other times may
be exceptionally modest. Girls addicted to the vice also suffer from nocturnal emissions. The
general effect of self-abuse is much the same in the case of a girl as in that of a boy, for
leucorrhea is injurious in somewhat the same fashion as seminal loss. In the case of girls
the greatest injury, however, is due to the nervous exhaustion which succeeds the unnatural
excitement.

                WHAT MOTHERS SHOULD DO FOR THEIR GIRLS

A healthy girl should be happy and comfortable in all respects. She will not be so, especially
with regard to her sex problems, unless she can appeal to her mother as a friend and confidant.
While keeping your girl's mind pure and healthy by precept and example, do not forget that
the best way to protect her against evil influences and communications is to tell her the exact
truth about sex facts, as they apply to her, just as the father should his boy. Keep your girl
fully occupied and do not leave her sex education to the evil winds of chance.

Let sex knowledge take its place as a proper, necessary part of her general education. If your
daughter feels she can at all times talk freely to you all will be well. Gratify her natural
sex curiosity in a natural way. See that immediate medical attention is given inflammations,
excoriations, itchings and swellings of her genital organs. Such conditions will lead her to
rub and scratch these parts--never to be touched--for relief. If, as a result of the sensations
experienced, masturbation results, yours is the sin.

                               CHAPTER V

                      SEX IN THE ADOLESCENT MALE

                      (FROM PUBERTY TO MATURITY)

Adolescence is the period when the boy is lost in the man. It is the time of life embraced
between the ages of fourteen or sixteen and the age of twenty-five. Every boy, if properly
trained, should reach this period in a state of good general health and spirits. Hitherto he
has been led and guided. Now he must develop mental strength and will power himself to choose
the good and refuse the evil in the sexual problems confronting him.

                                PUBERTY

