And finally, to complete the account of the chief minor discoveries of these two busy years,
we must mention Pedro Alvarez Cabral of Portugal, who was despatched in March 1, 1500 from
Lisbon to verify the discoveries of Da Gama.  He reached Calicut six months later, losing on
the voyage four of his caravels and most of his company.  Among the lost was Bartholomew Diaz,
the first discoverer of the Cape of Good Hope, who was on this voyage in a subordinate capacity,
and whose bones were left to dissolve in the stormy waters that beat round the Cape whose barrier
he was the first to pass.  The chief event of this voyage, however, was not the reaching of
Calicut nor the drowning of Diaz (which was chiefly of importance to himself, poor soul!) but
the discovery of Brazil, which Cabral made in following the southerly course too far to the
west. He landed there, in the Bay of Porto Seguro, on May 1, 1500, and took formal possession
of the land for the Crown of Portugal, naming it Vera Cruz, or the Land of the True Cross.

In the assumption of Columbus and his contemporaries all these doings were held to detract
from the glory of his own achievements, and were the subject of endless affidavits, depositions,
quarrels, arguments, proofs and claims in the great lawsuit that was in after years carried
on between the Crown of Spain and the heirs of Columbus concerning his titles and revenues.
We, however, may take a different view.  With the exception of the discoveries of the Cape
of Good Hope and the coast of Brazil all these enterprises were directly traceable to Columbus's
own achievements and were inspired by his example.  The things that a man can do in his own
person are limited by the laws of time and space; it is only example and influence that are
infinite and illimitable, and in which the spirit of any achievement can find true immortality.

CHAPTER VII

THE THIRD VOYAGE-(continued)

It may perhaps be wearisome to the reader to return to the tangled and depressing situation
in Espanola, but it cannot be half so wearisome as it was for Columbus, whom we left enveloped
in that dark cloud of error and surrender in which he sacrificed his dignity and good faith
to the impudent demands of a mutinous servant.  To his other troubles in San Domingo the presence
of this Roldan was now added; and the reinstated Alcalde was not long in making use of the
victory he had gained.  He bore himself with intolerable arrogance and insolence, discharging
one of Columbus's personal bodyguard on the ground that no one should hold any office on the
island except with his consent.  He demanded grants of land for himself and his followers,
which Columbus held himself obliged to concede; and the Admiral, further to pacify him, invented
a very disastrous system of repartimientos, under which certain chiefs were relieved from paying
tribute on condition of furnishing feudal service to the settlers--a system which rapidly developed
into the most cruel and oppressive kind of slavery.  The Admiral at this time also, in despair
of keeping things quiet by his old methods of peace and conciliation, created a kind of police
force which roamed about the island, exacting tribute and meting out summary punishment to
all defaulters.  Among other concessions weakly made to Roldan at this time was the gift of
the Crown estate of Esperanza, situated in the Vega Real, whither he betook himself and embarked
on what was nothing more nor less than a despotic reign, entirely ignoring the regulations
and prerogatives of the Admiral, and taking prisoners and administering punishment just as
he pleased.  The Admiral was helpless, and thought of going back to Spain, but the condition
of the island was such that he did not dare to leave it. Instead, he wrote a long letter to
the Sovereigns, full of complaints against other people and justifications of himself, in the
course of which he set forth those quibbling excuses for his capitulation to Roldan which we
have already heard.  And there was a pathetic request at the end of the letter that his son
Diego might be sent out to him.  As I have said, Columbus was by this time a prematurely old
man, and feeling the clouds gathering about him, and the loneliness and friendlessness of his
position at Espanola, he instinctively looked to the next generation for help, and to the presence
of his own son for sympathy and comfort.

It was at this moment (September 5, 1499) that a diversion arose in the rumour that four caravels
had been seen off the western end of Espanola and duly reported to the Admiral; and this announcement
was soon followed by the news that they were commanded by Ojeda, who was collecting dye-wood
in the island forests.  Columbus, although he had so far as we know had no previous difficulties
with Ojeda, had little cause now to credit any adventurer with kindness towards himself; and
Ojeda's secrecy in not reporting himself at San Domingo, and, in fact, his presence on the
island at all without the knowledge of the Admiral, were sufficient evidence that he was there
to serve his own ends.  Some gleam of Christopher's old cleverness in handling men was--now
shown by his instructing Roldan to sally forth and bring Ojeda to order.  It was a case of
setting a thief to catch a thief and, as it turned out, was not a bad stroke.  Roldan, nothing
loth, sailed round to that part of the coast where Ojeda's ships were anchored, and asked to
see his licence; which was duly shown to him and rather took the wind out of his sails. He
heard a little gossip from Ojeda, moreover, which had its own significance for him.  The Queen
was ill; Columbus was in disgrace; there was talk of superseding him.  Ojeda promised to sail
round to San Domingo and report himself; but instead, he sailed to the east along the coast
of Xaragua, where he got into communication with some discontented Spanish settlers and concocted
a scheme for leading them to San Domingo to demand redress for their imagined grievances. 
Roldan, however, who had come to look for Ojeda, discovered him at this point; and there ensued
some very pretty play between the two rascals, chiefly in trickery and treachery, such as capturing
each other's boats and emissaries, laying traps for one another, and taking prisoner one another's
crews.  The end of it was that Ojeda left the island without having reported himself to Columbus,
but not before he had completed his business--which was that of provisioning his ships and
collecting dye-wood and slaves.

And so exit Ojeda from the Columbian drama.  Of his own drama only one more act remained to
be played; which, for the sake of our past interest in him, we will mention here.  Chiefly
on account of his intimacy with Fonseca he was some years later given a governorship in the
neighbourhood of the Gulf of Darien; Juan de la Cosa accompanying him as unofficial partner.
Ojeda has no sooner landed there than he is fighting the natives; natives too many for him
this time; Ojeda forced to hide in the forest, where he finds the body of de la Cosa, who has
come by a shocking death.  Ojeda afterwards tries to govern his colony, but is no good at that;
cannot govern his own temper, poor fellow.  Quarrels with his crew, is put in irons, carried
to Espanola, and dies there (1515) in great poverty and eclipse.  One of the many, evidently,
who need a strong guiding hand, and perish without it.

