   I am sorry to hear that your head is so bad, which I
   fear is caused by your being so melancholy; but pray,
   dear Mamma, if you love me, don't give yourself up to
   fears for us. I hope, if it please God, we shall soon
   see one another, which will be the happiest day that
   ever I shall see. I will, as sure as I live, if it is
   possible for me, let you know everything that has
   happened, by every ship; therefore pray, dearest Mamma,
   don't doubt about it. I am in a very good state of
   health, and am likely to continue so. Pray my love to
   my brother. Pray my service to Mr Streton and his
   family, to Mr and Mrs Weston, and to George Warde when
   you see him; and pray believe me to be, my dearest
   Mamma, your most dutiful, loving and affectionate son,

   J. Wolfe.

   To Mrs. Wolfe, at her house in Greenwich, Kent.

Wolfe's 'very good state of health' was not 'likely to continue so,' either in camp or on board
ship. A long peace had made the country indifferent to the welfare of the Army and Navy. Now
men were suddenly being massed together in camps and fleets as if on Purpose to breed disease.
Sanitation on a large scale, never having been practised in peace, could not be improvised
in this hurried, though disastrously slow, preparation for a war. The ship in which Wolfe was
to sail had been lying idle for years; and her pestilential bilge-water soon began to make
the sailors and soldiers sicken and die. Most fortunately, Wolfe was among the first to take
ill; and so he was sent home in time to save him from the fevers of Spanish America.

Wolfe was happy to see his mother again, to have his pony to ride and his dogs to play with.
But, though he tried his best to stick to his lessons, his heart was wild for the war. He and
George Warde used to go every day during the Christmas holidays behind the pigeon-house at
Squerryes Court and practise with their swords and pistols. One day they stopped when they
heard the post-horn blowing at the gate; and both of them became very much excited when George's
father came out himself with a big official envelope marked 'On His Majesty's Service' and
addressed to 'James Wolfe, Esquire.' Inside was a commission as second lieutenant in the Marines,
signed by George II and dated at St James's Palace, November 3, 1741. Eighteen years later,
when the fame of the conquest of Canada was the talk of the kingdom, the Wardes had a stone
monument built to mark the spot where Wolfe was standing when the squire handed him his first
commission. And there it is to-day; and on it are the verses ending,

   This spot so sacred will forever claim
   A proud alliance with its hero's name.

Wolfe was at last an officer. But the Marines were not the corps for him. Their service companies
were five thousand miles away, while war with France was breaking out much nearer home. So
what was his delight at receiving another commission, on March 25, 1742, as an ensign in the
12th Regiment of Foot! He was now fifteen, an officer, a soldier born and bred, eager to serve
his country, and just appointed to a regiment ordered to the front! Within a month an army
such as no one had seen since the days of Marlborough had been assembled at Blackheath. Infantry,
cavalry, artillery, and engineers, they were all there when King George II, the Prince of Wales,
and the Duke of Cumberland came down to review them. Little did anybody think that the tall,
eager ensign carrying the colours of the 12th past His Majesty was the man who was to play
the foremost part in winning Canada for the British crown.

CHAPTER II

THE YOUNG SOLDIER 1741-1748

