At the end of the next act she discovered with dismay that in their transit to the cafe she
had lost the beautiful pictured programme he had bought for her. She wanted to go back and
hunt for it, but Darrow assured her that he would have no trouble in getting her another. When
he went out in quest of it she followed him protestingly to the door of the box, and he saw
that she was distressed at the thought of his having to spend an additional franc for her.
This frugality smote Darrow by its contrast to her natural bright profusion; and again he felt
the desire to right so clumsy an injustice.

When he returned to the box she was still standing in the doorway, and he noticed that his
were not the only eyes attracted to her. Then another impression sharply diverted his attention.
Above the fagged faces of the Parisian crowd he had caught the fresh fair countenance of Owen
Leath signalling a joyful recognition. The young man, slim and eager, had detached himself
from two companions of his own type, and was seeking to push through the press to his step-mother's
friend. The encounter, to Darrow, could hardly have been more inopportune; it woke in him a
confusion of feelings of which only the uppermost was allayed by seeing Sophy Viner, as if
instinctively warned, melt back into the shadow of their box.

A minute later Owen Leath was at his side. "I was sure it was you! Such luck to run across
you! Won't you come off with us to supper after it's over? Montmartre, or wherever else you
please. Those two chaps over there are friends of mine, at the Beaux Arts; both of them rather
good fellows--and we'd be so glad----"

For half a second Darrow read in his hospitable eye the termination "if you'd bring the lady
too"; then it deflected into: "We'd all be so glad if you'd come."

Darrow, excusing himself with thanks, lingered on for a few minutes' chat, in which every word,
and every tone of his companion's voice, was like a sharp light flashed into aching eyes. He
was glad when the bell called the audience to their seats, and young Leath left him with the
friendly question: "We'll see you at Givre later on?"

When he rejoined Miss Viner, Darrow's first care was to find out, by a rapid inspection of
the house, whether Owen Leath's seat had given him a view of their box. But the young man was
not visible from it, and Darrow concluded that he had been recognized in the corridor and not
at his companion's side. He scarcely knew why it seemed to him so important that this point
should be settled; certainly his sense of reassurance was less due to regard for Miss Viner
than to the persistent vision of grave offended eyes...

During the drive back to the hotel this vision was persistently kept before him by the thought
that the evening post might have brought a letter from Mrs. Leath. Even if no letter had yet
come, his servant might have telegraphed to say that one was on its way; and at the thought
his interest in the girl at his side again cooled to the fraternal, the almost fatherly. She
was no more to him, after all, than an appealing young creature to whom it was mildly agreeable
to have offered an evening's diversion; and when, as they rolled into the illuminated court
of the hotel, she turned with a quick movement which brought her happy face close to his, he
leaned away, affecting to be absorbed in opening the door of the cab.

At the desk the night porter, after a vain search through the pigeon-holes, was disposed to
think that a letter or telegram had in fact been sent up for the gentleman; and Darrow, at
the announcement, could hardly wait to ascend to his room. Upstairs, he and his companion had
the long dimly-lit corridor to themselves, and Sophy paused on her threshold, gathering up
in one hand the pale folds of her cloak, while she held the other out to Darrow.

"If the telegram comes early I shall be off by the first train; so I suppose this is good-bye,"
she said, her eyes dimmed by a little shadow of regret.

Darrow, with a renewed start of contrition, perceived that he had again forgotten her letter;
and as their hands met he vowed to himself that the moment she had left him he would dash down
stairs to post it.

"Oh, I'll see you in the morning, of course!"

A tremor of pleasure crossed her face as he stood before her, smiling a little uncertainly.

"At any rate," she said, "I want to thank you now for my good day."

He felt in her hand the same tremor he had seen in her face. "But it's YOU, on the contrary--"
he began, lifting the hand to his lips.

As he dropped it, and their eyes met, something passed through hers that was like a light carried
rapidly behind a curtained window.

"Good night; you must be awfully tired," he said with a friendly abruptness, turning away without
even waiting to see her pass into her room. He unlocked his door, and stumbling over the threshold
groped in the darkness for the electric button. The light showed him a telegram on the table,
and he forgot everything else as he caught it up.

"No letter from France," the message read.

It fell from Darrow's hand to the floor, and he dropped into a chair by the table and sat gazing
at the dingy drab and olive pattern of the carpet. She had not written, then; she had not written,
and it was manifest now that she did not mean to write. If she had had any intention of explaining
her telegram she would certainly, within twenty-four hours, have followed it up by a letter.
But she evidently did not intend to explain it, and her silence could mean only that she had
no explanation to give, or else that she was too indifferent to be aware that one was needed.

Darrow, face to face with these alternatives, felt a recrudescence of boyish misery. It was
no longer his hurt vanity that cried out. He told himself that he could have borne an equal
amount of pain, if only it had left Mrs. Leath's image untouched; but he could not bear to
think of her as trivial or insincere. The thought was so intolerable that he felt a blind desire
to punish some one else for the pain it caused him.

As he sat moodily staring at the carpet its silly intricacies melted into a blur from which
the eyes of Mrs. Leath again looked out at him. He saw the fine sweep of her brows, and the
deep look beneath them as she had turned from him on their last evening in London. "This will
be good-bye, then," she had said; and it occurred to him that her parting phrase had been the
same as Sophy Viner's.

At the thought he jumped to his feet and took down from its hook the coat in which he had left
Miss Viner's letter. The clock marked the third quarter after midnight, and he knew it would
make no difference if he went down to the post-box now or early the next morning; but he wanted
to clear his conscience, and having found the letter he went to the door.

A sound in the next room made him pause. He had become conscious again that, a few feet off,
on the other side of a thin partition, a small keen flame of life was quivering and agitating
the air. Sophy's face came hack to him insistently. It was as vivid now as Mrs. Leath's had
been a moment earlier. He recalled with a faint smile of retrospective pleasure the girl's
enjoyment of her evening, and the innumerable fine feelers of sensation she had thrown out
to its impressions.

It gave him a curiously close sense of her presence to think that at that moment she was living
over her enjoyment as intensely as he was living over his unhappiness. His own case was irremediable,
but it was easy enough to give her a few more hours of pleasure. And did she not perhaps secretly
expect it of him? After all, if she had been very anxious to join her friends she would have
telegraphed them on reaching Paris, instead of writing. He wondered now that he had not been
struck at the moment by so artless a device to gain more time. The fact of her having practised
it did not make him think less well of her; it merely strengthened the impulse to use his opportunity.
She was starving, poor child, for a little amusement, a little personal life--why not give
her the chance of another day in Paris? If he did so, should he not be merely falling in with
her own hopes?

At the thought his sympathy for her revived. She became of absorbing interest to him as an
escape from himself and an object about which his thwarted activities could cluster. He felt
less drearily alone because of her being there, on the other side of the door, and in his gratitude
to her for giving him this relief he began, with indolent amusement, to plan new ways of detaining
her. He dropped back into his chair, lit a cigar, and smiled a little at the image of her smiling
face. He tried to imagine what incident of the day she was likely to be recalling at that particular
moment, and what part he probably played in it. That it was not a small part he was certain,
and the knowledge was undeniably pleasant.

Now and then a sound from her room brought before him more vividly the reality of the situation
and the strangeness of the vast swarming solitude in which he and she were momentarily isolated,
amid long lines of rooms each holding its separate secret. The nearness of all these other
mysteries enclosing theirs gave Darrow a more intimate sense of the girl's presence, and through
the fumes of his cigar his imagination continued to follow her to and fro, traced the curve
of her slim young arms as she raised them to undo her hair, pictured the sliding down of her
dress to the waist and then to the knees, and the whiteness of her feet as she slipped across
the floor to bed...

He stood up and shook himself with a yawn, throwing away the end of his cigar. His glance,
in following it, lit on the telegram which had dropped to the floor. The sounds in the next
room had ceased, and once more he felt alone and unhappy.

Opening the window, he folded his arms on the sill and looked out on the vast light-spangled
mass of the city, and then up at the dark sky, in which the morning planet stood.

VI

At the Theatre Francais, the next afternoon, Darrow yawned and fidgeted in his seat.

The day was warm, the theatre crowded and airless, and the performance, it seemed to him, intolerably
bad. He stole a glance at his companion, wondering if she shared his feelings. Her rapt profile
betrayed no unrest, but politeness might have caused her to feign an interest that she did
not feel. He leaned back impatiently, stifling another yawn, and trying to fix his attention
on the stage. Great things were going forward there, and he was not insensible to the stern
beauties of the ancient drama. But the interpretation of the play seemed to him as airless
and lifeless as the atmosphere of the theatre. The players were the same whom he had often
applauded in those very parts, and perhaps that fact added to the impression of staleness and
conventionality produced by their performance. Surely it was time to infuse new blood into
the veins of the moribund art. He had the impression that the ghosts of actors were giving
a spectral performance on the shores of Styx.

Certainly it was not the most profitable way for a young man with a pretty companion to pass
the golden hours of a spring afternoon. The freshness of the face at his side, reflecting the
freshness of the season, suggested dapplings of sunlight through new leaves, the sound of a
brook in the grass, the ripple of tree-shadows over breezy meadows...

When at length the fateful march of the cothurns was stayed by the single pause in the play,
and Darrow had led Miss Viner out on the balcony overhanging the square before the theatre,
he turned to see if she shared his feelings. But the rapturous look she gave him checked the
depreciation on his lips.

"Oh, why did you bring me out here? One ought to creep away and sit in the dark till it begins
again!"

"Is THAT the way they made you feel?"

"Didn't they YOU?...As if the gods were there all the while, just behind them, pulling the
strings?" Her hands were pressed against the railing, her face shining and darkening under
the wing-beats of successive impressions.

Darrow smiled in enjoyment of her pleasure. After all, he had felt all that, long ago; perhaps
it was his own fault, rather than that of the actors, that the poetry of the play seemed to
have evaporated...But no, he had been right in judging the performance to be dull and stale:
it was simply his companion's inexperience, her lack of occasions to compare and estimate,
that made her think it brilliant.

"I was afraid you were bored and wanted to come away."

"BORED?" She made a little aggrieved grimace. "You mean you thought me too ignorant and stupid
to appreciate it?"

"No; not that." The hand nearest him still lay on the railing of the balcony, and he covered
it for a moment with his. As he did so he saw the colour rise and tremble in her cheek.

"Tell me just what you think," he said, bending his head a little, and only half-aware of his
words.

She did not turn her face to his, but began to talk rapidly, trying to convey something of
what she felt. But she was evidently unused to analyzing her aesthetic emotions, and the tumultuous
rush of the drama seemed to have left her in a state of panting wonder, as though it had been
a storm or some other natural cataclysm. She had no literary or historic associations to which
to attach her impressions: her education had evidently not comprised a course in Greek literature.
But she felt what would probably have been unperceived by many a young lady who had taken a
first in classics: the ineluctable fatality of the tale, the dread sway in it of the same mysterious
"luck" which pulled the threads of her own small destiny. It was not literature to her, it
was fact: as actual, as near by, as what was happening to her at the moment and what the next
hour held in store. Seen in this light, the play regained for Darrow its supreme and poignant
reality. He pierced to the heart of its significance through all the artificial accretions
with which his theories of art and the conventions of the stage had clothed it, and saw it
as he had never seen it: as life.

After this there could be no question of flight, and he took her back to the theatre, content
to receive his own sensations through the medium of hers. But with the continuation of the
play, and the oppression of the heavy air, his attention again began to wander, straying back
over the incidents of the morning.

He had been with Sophy Viner all day, and he was surprised to find how quickly the time had
gone. She had hardly attempted, as the hours passed, to conceal her satisfaction on finding
that no telegram came from the Farlows. "They'll have written," she had simply said; and her
mind had at once flown on to the golden prospect of an afternoon at the theatre. The intervening
hours had been disposed of in a stroll through the lively streets, and a repast, luxuriously
lingered over, under the chestnut-boughs of a restaurant in the Champs Elysees. Everything
entertained and interested her, and Darrow remarked, with an amused detachment, that she was
not insensible to the impression her charms produced. Yet there was no hard edge of vanity
in her sense of her prettiness: she seemed simply to be aware of it as a note in the general
harmony, and to enjoy sounding the note as a singer enjoys singing.

After luncheon, as they sat over their coffee, she had again asked an immense number of questions
and delivered herself of a remarkable variety of opinions. Her questions testified to a wholesome
and comprehensive human curiosity, and her comments showed, like her face and her whole attitude,
an odd mingling of precocious wisdom and disarming ignorance. When she talked to him about
"life"--the word was often on her lips--she seemed to him like a child playing with a tiger's
cub; and he said to himself that some day the child would grow up--and so would the tiger.
Meanwhile, such expertness qualified by such candour made it impossible to guess the extent
of her personal experience, or to estimate its effect on her character. She might be any one
of a dozen definable types, or she might--more disconcertingly to her companion and more perilously
to herself--be a shifting and uncrystallized mixture of them all.

Her talk, as usual, had promptly reverted to the stage. She was eager to learn about every
form of dramatic expression which the metropolis of things theatrical had to offer, and her
curiosity ranged from the official temples of the art to its less hallowed haunts. Her searching
enquiries about a play whose production, on one of the latter scenes, had provoked a considerable
amount of scandal, led Darrow to throw out laughingly: "To see THAT you'll have to wait till
you're married!" and his answer had sent her off at a tangent.

"Oh, I never mean to marry," she had rejoined in a tone of youthful finality.

"I seem to have heard that before!"

"Yes; from girls who've only got to choose!" Her eyes had grown suddenly almost old. "I'd like
you to see the only men who've ever wanted to marry me! One was the doctor on the steamer,
when I came abroad with the Hokes: he'd been cashiered from the navy for drunkenness. The other
was a deaf widower with three grown-up daughters, who kept a clock-shop in Bayswater!--Besides,"
she rambled on, "I'm not so sure that I believe in marriage. You see I'm all for self-development
and the chance to live one's life. I'm awfully modern, you know."

It was just when she proclaimed herself most awfully modern that she struck him as most helplessly
backward; yet the moment after, without any bravado, or apparent desire to assume an attitude,
she would propound some social axiom which could have been gathered only in the bitter soil
of experience.

All these things came back to him as he sat beside her in the theatre and watched her ingenuous
absorption. It was on "the story" that her mind was fixed, and in life also, he suspected,
it would always be "the story", rather than its remoter imaginative issues, that would hold
her. He did not believe there were ever any echoes in her soul...

There was no question, however, that what she felt was felt with intensity: to the actual,
the immediate, she spread vibrating strings. When the play was over, and they came out once
more into the sunlight, Darrow looked down at her with a smile.

"Well?" he asked.

She made no answer. Her dark gaze seemed to rest on him without seeing him. Her cheeks and
lips were pale, and the loose hair under her hat-brim clung to her forehead in damp rings.
She looked like a young priestess still dazed by the fumes of the cavern.

"You poor child--it's been almost too much for you!"

She shook her head with a vague smile.

"Come," he went on, putting his hand on her arm, "let's jump into a taxi and get some air and
sunshine. Look, there are hours of daylight left; and see what a night it's going to be!"

He pointed over their heads, to where a white moon hung in the misty blue above the roofs of
the rue de Rivoli.

She made no answer, and he signed to a motor-cab, calling out to the driver: "To the Bois!"

As the carriage turned toward the Tuileries she roused herself. "I must go first to the hotel.
There may be a message--at any rate I must decide on something."

Darrow saw that the reality of the situation had suddenly forced itself upon her. "I MUST decide
on something," she repeated.

He would have liked to postpone the return, to persuade her to drive directly to the Bois for
dinner. It would have been easy enough to remind her that she could not start for Joigny that
evening, and that therefore it was of no moment whether she received the Farlows' answer then
or a few hours later; but for some reason he hesitated to use this argument, which had come
so naturally to him the day before. After all, he knew she would find nothing at the hotel--so
what did it matter if they went there?

The porter, interrogated, was not sure. He himself had received nothing for the lady, but in
his absence his subordinate might have sent a letter upstairs.

Darrow and Sophy mounted together in the lift, and the young man, while she went into her room,
unlocked his own door and glanced at the empty table. For him at least no message had come;
and on her threshold, a moment later, she met him with the expected: "No--there's nothing!"

He feigned an unregretful surprise. "So much the better! And now, shall we drive out somewhere?
Or would you rather take a boat to Bellevue? Have you ever dined there, on the terrace, by
moonlight? It's not at all bad. And there's no earthly use in sitting here waiting."

She stood before him in perplexity.

"But when I wrote yesterday I asked them to telegraph. I suppose they're horribly hard up,
the poor dears, and they thought a letter would do as well as a telegram." The colour had risen
to her face. "That's why I wrote instead of telegraphing; I haven't a penny to spare myself!"

Nothing she could have said could have filled her listener with a deeper contrition. He felt
the red in his own face as he recalled the motive with which he had credited her in his midnight
musings. But that motive, after all, had simply been trumped up to justify his own disloyalty:
he had never really believed in it. The reflection deepened his confusion, and he would have
liked to take her hand in his and confess the injustice he had done her.

She may have interpreted his change of colour as an involuntary protest at being initiated
into such shabby details, for she went on with a laugh: "I suppose you can hardly understand
what it means to have to stop and think whether one can afford a telegram? But I've always
had to consider such things. And I mustn't stay here any longer now--I must try to get a night
train for Joigny. Even if the Farlows can't take me in, I can go to the hotel: it will cost
less than staying here." She paused again and then exclaimed: "I ought to have thought of that
sooner; I ought to have telegraphed yesterday! But I was sure I should hear from them today;
and I wanted--oh, I DID so awfully want to stay!" She threw a troubled look at Darrow. "Do
you happen to remember," she asked, "what time it was when you posted my letter?"

VII

Darrow was still standing on her threshold. As she put the question he entered the room and
closed the door behind him.

His heart was beating a little faster than usual and he had no clear idea of what he was about
to do or say, beyond the definite conviction that, whatever passing impulse of expiation moved
him, he would not be fool enough to tell her that he had not sent her letter. He knew that
most wrongdoing works, on the whole, less mischief than its useless confession; and this was
clearly a case where a passing folly might be turned, by avowal, into a serious offense.

"I'm so sorry--so sorry; but you must let me help you...You will let me help you?" he said.

He took her hands and pressed them together between his, counting on a friendly touch to help
out the insufficiency of words. He felt her yield slightly to his clasp, and hurried on without
giving her time to answer.

"Isn't it a pity to spoil our good time together by regretting anything you might have done
to prevent our having it?"

She drew back, freeing her hands. Her face, losing its look of appealing confidence, was suddenly
sharpened by distrust.

"You didn't forget to post my letter?"

Darrow stood before her, constrained and ashamed, and ever more keenly aware that the betrayal
of his distress must be a greater offense than its concealment.

"What an insinuation!" he cried, throwing out his hands with a laugh.

Her face instantly melted to laughter. "Well, then--I WON'T be sorry; I won't regret anything
except that our good time is over!"

The words were so unexpected that they routed all his resolves. If she had gone on doubting
him he could probably have gone on deceiving her; but her unhesitating acceptance of his word
made him hate the part he was playing. At the same moment a doubt shot up its serpent-head
in his own bosom. Was it not he rather than she who was childishly trustful? Was she not almost
too ready to take his word, and dismiss once for all the tiresome question of the letter? Considering
what her experiences must have been, such trustfulness seemed open to suspicion. But the moment
his eyes fell on her he was ashamed of the thought, and knew it for what it really was: another
pretext to lessen his own delinquency.

"Why should our good time be over?" he asked. "Why shouldn't it last a little longer?"

She looked up, her lips parted in surprise; but before she could speak he went on: "I want
you to stay with me--I want you, just for a few days, to have all the things you've never had.
It's not always May and Paris--why not make the most of them now? You know me--we're not strangers--why
shouldn't you treat me like a friend?"

While he spoke she had drawn away a little, but her hand still lay in his. She was pale, and
her eyes were fixed on him in a gaze in which there was neither distrust or resentment, but
only an ingenuous wonder. He was extraordinarily touched by her expression.

"Oh, do! You must. Listen: to prove that I'm sincere I'll tell you...I'll tell you I didn't
post your letter...I didn't post it because I wanted so much to give you a few good hours...and
because I couldn't bear to have you go."

He had the feeling that the words were being uttered in spite of him by some malicious witness
of the scene, and yet that he was not sorry to have them spoken.

The girl had listened to him in silence. She remained motionless for a moment after he had
ceased to speak; then she snatched away her hand.

"You didn't post my letter? You kept it back on purpose? And you tell me so NOW, to prove to
me that I'd better put myself under your protection?" She burst into a laugh that had in it
all the piercing echoes of her Murrett past, and her face, at the same moment, underwent the
same change, shrinking into a small malevolent white mask in which the eyes burned black. "Thank
you--thank you most awfully for telling me! And for all your other kind intentions! The plan's
delightful--really quite delightful, and I'm extremely flattered and obliged."

She dropped into a seat beside her dressing-table, resting her chin on her lifted hands, and
laughing out at him under the elf-lock which had shaken itself down over her eyes.

Her outburst did not offend the young man; its immediate effect was that of allaying his agitation.
The theatrical touch in her manner made his offense seem more venial than he had thought it
a moment before.

He drew up a chair and sat down beside her. "After all," he said, in a tone of good-humoured
protest, "I needn't have told you I'd kept back your letter; and my telling you seems rather
strong proof that I hadn't any very nefarious designs on you."

She met this with a shrug, but he did not give her time to answer. "My designs," he continued
with a smile, "were not nefarious. I saw you'd been through a bad time with Mrs. Murrett, and
that there didn't seem to be much fun ahead for you; and I didn't see--and I don't yet see--the
harm of trying to give you a few hours of amusement between a depressing past and a not particularly
cheerful future." He paused again, and then went on, in the same tone of friendly reasonableness:
"The mistake I made was not to tell you this at once--not to ask you straight out to give me
a day or two, and let me try to make you forget all the things that are troubling you. I was
a fool not to see that if I'd put it to you in that way you'd have accepted or refused, as
you chose; but that at least you wouldn't have mistaken my intentions.--Intentions!" He stood
up, walked the length of the room, and turned back to where she still sat motionless, her elbows
propped on the dressing-table, her chin on her hands. "What rubbish we talk about intentions!
The truth is I hadn't any: I just liked being with you. Perhaps you don't know how extraordinarily
one can like being with you...I was depressed and adrift myself; and you made me forget my
bothers; and when I found you were going--and going back to dreariness, as I was--I didn't
see why we shouldn't have a few hours together first; so I left your letter in my pocket."

He saw her face melt as she listened, and suddenly she unclasped her hands and leaned to him.

"But are YOU unhappy too? Oh, I never understood--I never dreamed it! I thought you'd always
had everything in the world you wanted!"

Darrow broke into a laugh at this ingenuous picture of his state. He was ashamed of trying
to better his case by an appeal to her pity, and annoyed with himself for alluding to a subject
he would rather have kept out of his thoughts. But her look of sympathy had disarmed him; his
heart was bitter and distracted; she was near him, her eyes were shining with compassion--he
bent over her and kissed her hand.

"Forgive me--do forgive me," he said.

She stood up with a smiling head-shake. "Oh, it's not so often that people try to give me any
pleasure--much less two whole days of it! I sha'n't forget how kind you've been. I shall have
plenty of time to remember. But this IS good-bye, you know. I must telegraph at once to say
I'm coming."

"To say you're coming? Then I'm not forgiven?"

"Oh, you're forgiven--if that's any comfort."

"It's not, the very least, if your way of proving it is to go away!"

She hung her head in meditation. "But I can't stay.--How CAN I stay?" she broke out, as if
arguing with some unseen monitor.

"Why can't you? No one knows you're here...No one need ever know."

She looked up, and their eyes exchanged meanings for a rapid minute. Her gaze was as clear
as a boy's. "Oh, it's not THAT," she exclaimed, almost impatiently; "it's not people I'm afraid
of! They've never put themselves out for me--why on earth should I care about them?"

He liked her directness as he had never liked it before. "Well, then, what is it? Not ME, I hope?"

"No, not you: I like you. It's the money! With me that's always the root of the matter. I could
never yet afford a treat in my life!"

"Is THAT all?" He laughed, relieved by her naturalness. "Look here; since we re talking as
man to man--can't you trust me about that too?"

"Trust you? How do you mean? You'd better not trust ME!" she laughed back sharply. "I might
never be able to pay up!"

His gesture brushed aside the allusion. "Money may be the root of the matter; it can't be the
whole of it, between friends. Don't you think one friend may accept a small service from another
without looking too far ahead or weighing too many chances? The question turns entirely on
what you think of me. If you like me well enough to be willing to take a few days' holiday
with me, just for the pleasure of the thing, and the pleasure you'll be giving me, let's shake
hands on it. If you don't like me well enough we'll shake hands too; only I shall be sorry,"
he ended.

"Oh, but I shall be sorry too!" Her face, as she lifted it to his, looked so small and young
that Darrow felt a fugitive twinge of compunction, instantly effaced by the excitement of pursuit.

"Well, then?" He stood looking down on her, his eyes persuading her. He was now intensely aware
that his nearness was having an effect which made it less and less necessary for him to choose
his words, and he went on, more mindful of the inflections of his voice than of what he was
actually saying: "Why on earth should we say good-bye if we're both sorry to? Won't you tell
me your reason? It's not a bit like you to let anything stand in the way of your saying just
what you feel. You mustn't mind offending me, you know!"

She hung before him like a leaf on the meeting of cross-currents, that the next ripple may
sweep forward or whirl back. Then she flung up her head with the odd boyish movement habitual
to her in moments of excitement. "What I feel? Do you want to know what I feel? That you're
giving me the only chance I've ever had!"

She turned about on her heel and, dropping into the nearest chair, sank forward, her face hidden
against the dressing-table.

Under the folds of her thin summer dress the modelling of her back and of her lifted arms,
and the slight hollow between her shoulder-blades, recalled the faint curves of a terra-cotta
statuette, some young image of grace hardly more than sketched in the clay. Darrow, as he stood
looking at her, reflected that her character, for all its seeming firmness, its flashing edges
of "opinion", was probably no less immature. He had not expected her to yield so suddenly to
his suggestion, or to confess her yielding in that way. At first he was slightly disconcerted;
then he saw how her attitude simplified his own. Her behaviour had all the indecision and awkwardness
of inexperience. It showed that she was a child after all; and all he could do--all he had
ever meant to do--was to give her a child's holiday to look back to.

For a moment he fancied she was crying; but the next she was on her feet and had swept round
on him a face she must have turned away only to hide the first rush of her pleasure.

For a while they shone on each other without speaking; then she sprang to him and held out
both hands.

"Is it true? Is it really true? Is it really going to happen to ME?"

He felt like answering: "You're the very creature to whom it was bound to happen"; but the
words had a double sense that made him wince, and instead he caught her proffered hands and
stood looking at her across the length of her arms, without attempting to bend them or to draw
her closer. He wanted her to know how her words had moved him; but his thoughts were blurred
by the rush of the same emotion that possessed her, and his own words came with an effort.

He ended by giving her back a laugh as frank as her own, and declaring, as he dropped her hands:
"All that and more too--you'll see!"

VIII

All day, since the late reluctant dawn, the rain had come down in torrents. It streamed against
Darrow's high-perched windows, reduced their vast prospect of roofs and chimneys to a black
oily huddle, and filled the room with the drab twilight of an underground aquarium.

The streams descended with the regularity of a third day's rain, when trimming and shuffling
are over, and the weather has settled down to do its worst. There were no variations of rhythm,
no lyrical ups and downs: the grey lines streaking the panes were as dense and uniform as a
page of unparagraphed narrative.

George Darrow had drawn his armchair to the fire. The time-table he had been studying lay on
the floor, and he sat staring with dull acquiescence into the boundless blur of rain, which
affected him like a vast projection of his own state of mind. Then his eyes travelled slowly
about the room.

It was exactly ten days since his hurried unpacking had strewn it with the contents of his
portmanteaux. His brushes and razors were spread out on the blotched marble of the chest of
drawers. A stack of newspapers had accumulated on the centre table under the "electrolier",
and half a dozen paper novels lay on the mantelpiece among cigar-cases and toilet bottles;
but these traces of his passage had made no mark on the featureless dulness of the room, its
look of being the makeshift setting of innumerable transient collocations. There was something
sardonic, almost sinister, in its appearance of having deliberately "made up" for its anonymous
part, all in noncommittal drabs and browns, with a carpet and paper that nobody would remember,
and chairs and tables as impersonal as railway porters.

Darrow picked up the time-table and tossed it on to the table. Then he rose to his feet, lit
a cigar and went to the window. Through the rain he could just discover the face of a clock
in a tall building beyond the railway roofs. He pulled out his watch, compared the two time-pieces,
and started the hands of his with such a rush that they flew past the hour and he had to make
them repeat the circuit more deliberately. He felt a quite disproportionate irritation at the
trifling blunder. When he had corrected it he went back to his chair and threw himself down,
leaning back his head against his hands. Presently his cigar went out, and he got up, hunted
for the matches, lit it again and returned to his seat.

The room was getting on his nerves. During the first few days, while the skies were clear,
he had not noticed it, or had felt for it only the contemptuous indifference of the traveller
toward a provisional shelter. But now that he was leaving it, was looking at it for the last
time, it seemed to have taken complete possession of his mind, to be soaking itself into him
like an ugly indelible blot. Every detail pressed itself on his notice with the familiarity
of an accidental confidant: whichever way he turned, he felt the nudge of a transient intimacy...

The one fixed point in his immediate future was that his leave was over and that he must be
back at his post in London the next morning. Within twenty-four hours he would again be in
a daylight world of recognized activities, himself a busy, responsible, relatively necessary
factor in the big whirring social and official machine. That fixed obligation was the fact
he could think of with the least discomfort, yet for some unaccountable reason it was the one
on which he found it most difficult to fix his thoughts. Whenever he did so, the room jerked
him back into the circle of its insistent associations. It was extraordinary with what a microscopic
minuteness of loathing he hated it all: the grimy carpet and wallpaper, the black marble mantel-piece,
the clock with a gilt allegory under a dusty bell, the high-bolstered brown-counterpaned bed,
the framed card of printed rules under the electric light switch, and the door of communication
with the next room. He hated the door most of all...

At the outset, he had felt no special sense of responsibility. He was satisfied that he had
struck the right note, and convinced of his power of sustaining it. The whole incident had
somehow seemed, in spite of its vulgar setting and its inevitable prosaic propinquities, to
be enacting itself in some unmapped region outside the pale of the usual. It was not like anything
that had ever happened to him before, or in which he had ever pictured himself as likely to
be involved; but that, at first, had seemed no argument against his fitness to deal with it.

Perhaps but for the three days' rain he might have got away without a doubt as to his adequacy.
The rain had made all the difference. It had thrown the whole picture out of perspective, blotted
out the mystery of the remoter planes and the enchantment of the middle distance, and thrust
into prominence every commonplace fact of the foreground. It was the kind of situation that
was not helped by being thought over; and by the perversity of circumstance he had been forced
into the unwilling contemplation of its every aspect...

His cigar had gone out again, and he threw it into the fire and vaguely meditated getting up
to find another. But the mere act of leaving his chair seemed to call for a greater exertion
of the will than he was capable of, and he leaned his head back with closed eyes and listened
to the drumming of the rain.

A different noise aroused him. It was the opening and closing of the door leading from the
corridor into the adjoining room. He sat motionless, without opening his eyes; but now another
sight forced itself under his lowered lids. It was the precise photographic picture of that
other room. Everything in it rose before him and pressed itself upon his vision with the same
acuity of distinctness as the objects surrounding him. A step sounded on the floor, and he
knew which way the step was directed, what pieces of furniture it had to skirt, where it would
probably pause, and what was likely to arrest it. He heard another sound, and recognized it
as that of a wet umbrella placed in the black marble jamb of the chimney-piece, against the
hearth. He caught the creak of a hinge, and instantly differentiated it as that of the wardrobe
against the opposite wall. Then he heard the mouse-like squeal of a reluctant drawer, and knew
it was the upper one in the chest of drawers beside the bed: the clatter which followed was
caused by the mahogany toilet-glass jumping on its loosened pivots...

The step crossed the floor again. It was strange how much better he knew it than the person
to whom it belonged! Now it was drawing near the door of communication between the two rooms.
He opened his eyes and looked. The step had ceased and for a moment there was silence. Then
he heard a low knock. He made no response, and after an interval he saw that the door handle
was being tentatively turned. He closed his eyes once more...

The door opened, and the step was in the room, coming cautiously toward him. He kept his eyes
shut, relaxing his body to feign sleep. There was another pause, then a wavering soft advance,
the rustle of a dress behind his chair, the warmth of two hands pressed for a moment on his
lids. The palms of the hands had the lingering scent of some stuff that he had bought on the
Boulevard...He looked up and saw a letter falling over his shoulder to his knee...

"Did I disturb you? I'm so sorry! They gave me this just now when I came in."

The letter, before he could catch it, had slipped between his knees to the floor. It lay there,
address upward, at his feet, and while he sat staring down at the strong slender characters
on the blue-gray envelope an arm reached out from behind to pick it up.

"Oh, don't--DON'T" broke from him, and he bent over and caught the arm. The face above it was
close to his.

"Don't what?"

----"take the trouble," he stammered.

He dropped the arm and stooped down. His grasp closed over the letter, he fingered its thickness
and weight and calculated the number of sheets it must contain.

Suddenly he felt the pressure of the hand on his shoulder, and became aware that the face was
still leaning over him, and that in a moment he would have to look up and kiss it...

He bent forward first and threw the unopened letter into the middle of the fire.

BOOK II

IX

The light of the October afternoon lay on an old high-roofed house which enclosed in its long
expanse of brick and yellowish stone the breadth of a grassy court filled with the shadow and
sound of limes.

From the escutcheoned piers at the entrance of the court a level drive, also shaded by limes,
extended to a white-barred gate beyond which an equally level avenue of grass, cut through
a wood, dwindled to a blue-green blur against a sky banked with still white slopes of cloud.

In the court, half-way between house and drive, a lady stood. She held a parasol above her
head, and looked now at the house-front, with its double flight of steps meeting before a glazed
door under sculptured trophies, now down the drive toward the grassy cutting through the wood.
Her air was less of expectancy than of contemplation: she seemed not so much to be watching
for any one, or listening for an approaching sound, as letting the whole aspect of the place
sink into her while she held herself open to its influence. Yet it was no less apparent that
the scene was not new to her. There was no eagerness of investigation in her survey: she seemed
rather to be looking about her with eyes to which, for some intimate inward reason, details
long since familiar had suddenly acquired an unwonted freshness.

This was in fact the exact sensation of which Mrs. Leath was conscious as she came forth from
the house and descended into the sunlit court. She had come to meet her step-son, who was likely
to be returning at that hour from an afternoon's shooting in one of the more distant plantations,
and she carried in her hand the letter which had sent her in search of him; but with her first
step out of the house all thought of him had been effaced by another series of impressions.

The scene about her was known to satiety. She had seen Givre at all seasons of the year, and
for the greater part of every year, since the far-off day of her marriage; the day when, ostensibly
driving through its gates at her husband's side, she had actually been carried there on a cloud
of iris-winged visions.

The possibilities which the place had then represented were still vividly present to her. The
mere phrase "a French chateau" had called up to her youthful fancy a throng of romantic associations,
poetic, pictorial and emotional; and the serene face of the old house seated in its park among
the poplar-bordered meadows of middle France, had seemed, on her first sight of it, to hold
out to her a fate as noble and dignified as its own mien.

Though she could still call up that phase of feeling it had long since passed, and the house
had for a time become to her the very symbol of narrowness and monotony. Then, with the passing
of years, it had gradually acquired a less inimical character, had become, not again a castle
of dreams, evoker of fair images and romantic legend, but the shell of a life slowly adjusted
to its dwelling: the place one came back to, the place where one had one's duties, one's habits
and one's books, the place one would naturally live in till one died: a dull house, an inconvenient
house, of which one knew all the defects, the shabbinesses, the discomforts, but to which one
was so used that one could hardly, after so long a time, think one's self away from it without
suffering a certain loss of identity.

Now, as it lay before her in the autumn mildness, its mistress was surprised at her own insensibility.
She had been trying to see the house through the eyes of an old friend who, the next morning,
would be driving up to it for the first time; and in so doing she seemed to be opening her
own eyes upon it after a long interval of blindness.

The court was very still, yet full of a latent life: the wheeling and rustling of pigeons about
the rectangular yews and across the sunny gravel; the sweep of rooks above the lustrous greyish-purple
slates of the roof, and the stir of the tree-tops as they met the breeze which every day, at
that hour, came punctually up from the river.

Just such a latent animation glowed in Anna Leath. In every nerve and vein she was conscious
of that equipoise of bliss which the fearful human heart scarce dares acknowledge. She was
not used to strong or full emotions; but she had always known that she should not be afraid
of them. She was not afraid now; but she felt a deep inward stillness.

The immediate effect of the feeling had been to send her forth in quest of her step-son. She
wanted to stroll back with him and have a quiet talk before they re-entered the house. It was
always easy to talk to him, and at this moment he was the one person to whom she could have
spoken without fear of disturbing her inner stillness. She was glad, for all sorts of reasons,
that Madame de Chantelle and Effie were still at Ouchy with the governess, and that she and
Owen had the house to themselves. And she was glad that even he was not yet in sight. She wanted
to be alone a little longer; not to think, but to let the long slow waves of joy break over
her one by one.

She walked out of the court and sat down on one of the benches that bordered the drive. From
her seat she had a diagonal view of the long house-front and of the domed chapel terminating
one of the wings. Beyond a gate in the court-yard wall the flower-garden drew its dark-green
squares and raised its statues against the yellowing background of the park. In the borders
only a few late pinks and crimsons smouldered, but a peacock strutting in the sun seemed to
have gathered into his out-spread fan all the summer glories of the place.

In Mrs. Leath's hand was the letter which had opened her eyes to these things, and a smile
rose to her lips at the mere feeling of the paper between her fingers. The thrill it sent through
her gave a keener edge to every sense. She felt, saw, breathed the shining world as though
a thin impenetrable veil had suddenly been removed from it.

Just such a veil, she now perceived, had always hung between herself and life. It had been
like the stage gauze which gives an illusive air of reality to the painted scene behind it,
yet proves it, after all, to be no more than a painted scene.

She had been hardly aware, in her girlhood, of differing from others in this respect. In the
well-regulated well-fed Summers world the unusual was regarded as either immoral or ill-bred,
and people with emotions were not visited. Sometimes, with a sense of groping in a topsy-turvy
universe, Anna had wondered why everybody about her seemed to ignore all the passions and sensations
which formed the stuff of great poetry and memorable action. In a community composed entirely
of people like her parents and her parents' friends she did not see how the magnificent things
one read about could ever have happened. She was sure that if anything of the kind had occurred
in her immediate circle her mother would have consulted the family clergyman, and her father
perhaps even have rung up the police; and her sense of humour compelled her to own that, in
the given conditions, these precautions might not have been unjustified.

Little by little the conditions conquered her, and she learned to regard the substance of life
as a mere canvas for the embroideries of poet and painter, and its little swept and fenced
and tended surface as its actual substance. It was in the visioned region of action and emotion
that her fullest hours were spent; but it hardly occurred to her that they might be translated
into experience, or connected with anything likely to happen to a young lady living in West
Fifty-fifth Street.

She perceived, indeed, that other girls, leading outwardly the same life as herself, and seemingly
unaware of her world of hidden beauty, were yet possessed of some vital secret which escaped
her. There seemed to be a kind of freemasonry between them; they were wider awake than she,
more alert, and surer of their wants if not of their opinions. She supposed they were "cleverer",
and accepted her inferiority good-humouredly, half aware, within herself, of a reserve of unused
power which the others gave no sign of possessing.

This partly consoled her for missing so much of what made their "good time"; but the resulting
sense of exclusion, of being somehow laughingly but firmly debarred from a share of their privileges,
threw her back on herself and deepened the reserve which made envious mothers cite her as a
model of ladylike repression. Love, she told herself, would one day release her from this spell
of unreality. She was persuaded that the sublime passion was the key to the enigma; but it
was difficult to relate her conception of love to the forms it wore in her experience. Two
or three of the girls she had envied for their superior acquaintance with the arts of life
had contracted, in the course of time, what were variously described as "romantic" or "foolish"
marriages; one even made a runaway match, and languished for a while under a cloud of social
reprobation. Here, then, was passion in action, romance converted to reality; yet the heroines
of these exploits returned from them untransfigured, and their husbands were as dull as ever
when one had to sit next to them at dinner.

Her own case, of course, would be different. Some day she would find the magic bridge between
West Fifty-fifth Street and life; once or twice she had even fancied that the clue was in her
hand. The first time was when she had met young Darrow. She recalled even now the stir of the
encounter. But his passion swept over her like a wind that shakes the roof of the forest without
reaching its still glades or rippling its hidden pools. He was extraordinarily intelligent
and agreeable, and her heart beat faster when he was with her. He had a tall fair easy presence
and a mind in which the lights of irony played pleasantly through the shades of feeling. She
liked to hear his voice almost as much as to listen to what he was saying, and to listen to
what he was saying almost as much as to feel that he was looking at her; but he wanted to kiss
her, and she wanted to talk to him about books and pictures, and have him insinuate the eternal
theme of their love into every subject they discussed.

Whenever they were apart a reaction set in. She wondered how she could have been so cold, called
herself a prude and an idiot, questioned if any man could really care for her, and got up in
the dead of night to try new ways of doing her hair. But as soon as he reappeared her head
straightened itself on her slim neck and she sped her little shafts of irony, or flew her little
kites of erudition, while hot and cold waves swept over her, and the things she really wanted
to say choked in her throat and burned the palms of her hands.

Often she told herself that any silly girl who had waltzed through a season would know better
than she how to attract a man and hold him; but when she said "a man" she did not really mean
George Darrow.

Then one day, at a dinner, she saw him sitting next to one of the silly girls in question:
the heroine of the elopement which had shaken West Fifty-fifth Street to its base. The young
lady had come back from her adventure no less silly than when she went; and across the table
the partner of her flight, a fat young man with eye-glasses, sat stolidly eating terrapin and
talking about polo and investments.

The young woman was undoubtedly as silly as ever; yet after watching her for a few minutes
Miss Summers perceived that she had somehow grown luminous, perilous, obscurely menacing to
nice girls and the young men they intended eventually to accept. Suddenly, at the sight, a
rage of possessorship awoke in her. She must save Darrow, assert her right to him at any price.
Pride and reticence went down in a hurricane of jealousy. She heard him laugh, and there was
something new in his laugh...She watched him talking, talking...He sat slightly sideways, a
faint smile beneath his lids, lowering his voice as he lowered it when he talked to her. She
caught the same inflections, but his eyes were different. It would have offended her once if
he had looked at her like that. Now her one thought was that none but she had a right to be
so looked at. And that girl of all others! What illusions could he have about a girl who, hardly
a year ago, had made a fool of herself over the fat young man stolidly eating terrapin across
the table? If that was where romance and passion ended, it was better to take to district visiting
or algebra!

All night she lay awake and wondered: "What was she saying to him? How shall I learn to say
such things?" and she decided that her heart would tell her--that the next time they were alone
together the irresistible word would spring to her lips. He came the next day, and they were
alone, and all she found was: "I didn't know that you and Kitty Mayne were such friends."

He answered with indifference that he didn't know it either, and in the reaction of relief
she declared: "She's certainly ever so much prettier than she was..."

"She's rather good fun," he admitted, as though he had not noticed her other advantages; and
suddenly Anna saw in his eyes the look she had seen there the previous evening.

She felt as if he were leagues and leagues away from her. All her hopes dissolved, and she
was conscious of sitting rigidly, with high head and straight lips, while the irresistible
word fled with a last wing-beat into the golden mist of her illusions...

She was still quivering with the pain and bewilderment of this adventure when Fraser Leath
appeared. She met him first in Italy, where she was travelling with her parents; and the following
winter he came to New York. In Italy he had seemed interesting: in New York he became remarkable.
He seldom spoke of his life in Europe, and let drop but the most incidental allusions to the
friends, the tastes, the pursuits which filled his cosmopolitan days; but in the atmosphere
of West Fifty-fifth Street he seemed the embodiment of a storied past. He presented Miss Summers
with a prettily-bound anthology of the old French poets and, when she showed a discriminating
pleasure in the gift, observed with his grave smile: "I didn't suppose I should find any one
here who would feel about these things as I do." On another occasion he asked her acceptance
of a half-effaced eighteenth century pastel which he had surprisingly picked up in a New York
auction-room. "I know no one but you who would really appreciate it," he explained.

He permitted himself no other comments, but these conveyed with sufficient directness that
he thought her worthy of a different setting. That she should be so regarded by a man living
in an atmosphere of art and beauty, and esteeming them the vital elements of life, made her
feel for the first time that she was understood. Here was some one whose scale of values was
the same as hers, and who thought her opinion worth hearing on the very matters which they
both considered of supreme importance. The discovery restored her self-confidence, and she
revealed herself to Mr. Leath as she had never known how to reveal herself to Darrow.

As the courtship progressed, and they grew more confidential, her suitor surprised and delighted
her by little explosions of revolutionary sentiment. He said: "Shall you mind, I wonder, if
I tell you that you live in a dread-fully conventional atmosphere?" and, seeing that she manifestly
did not mind: "Of course I shall say things now and then that will horrify your dear delightful
parents--I shall shock them awfully, I warn you."

In confirmation of this warning he permitted himself an occasional playful fling at the regular
church-going of Mr. and Mrs. Summers, at the innocuous character of the literature in their
library, and at their guileless appreciations in art. He even ventured to banter Mrs. Summers
on her refusal to receive the irrepressible Kitty Mayne who, after a rapid passage with George
Darrow, was now involved in another and more flagrant adventure.

"In Europe, you know, the husband is regarded as the only judge in such matters. As long as
he accepts the situation--" Mr. Leath explained to Anna, who took his view the more emphatically
in order to convince herself that, personally, she had none but the most tolerant sentiments
toward the lady.

The subversiveness of Mr. Leath's opinions was enhanced by the distinction of his appearance
and the reserve of his manners. He was like the anarchist with a gardenia in his buttonhole
who figures in the higher melodrama. Every word, every allusion, every note of his agreeably-modulated
voice, gave Anna a glimpse of a society at once freer and finer, which observed the traditional
forms but had discarded the underlying prejudices; whereas the world she knew had discarded
many of the forms and kept almost all the prejudices.

In such an atmosphere as his an eager young woman, curious as to all the manifestations of
life, yet instinctively desiring that they should come to her in terms of beauty and fine feeling,
must surely find the largest scope for self-expression. Study, travel, the contact of the world,
the comradeship of a polished and enlightened mind, would combine to enrich her days and form
her character; and it was only in the rare moments when Mr. Leath's symmetrical blond mask
bent over hers, and his kiss dropped on her like a cold smooth pebble, that she questioned
the completeness of the joys he offered.

There had been a time when the walls on which her gaze now rested had shed a glare of irony
on these early dreams. In the first years of her marriage the sober symmetry of Givre had suggested
only her husband's neatly-balanced mind. It was a mind, she soon learned, contentedly absorbed
in formulating the conventions of the unconventional. West Fifty-fifth Street was no more conscientiously
concerned than Givre with the momentous question of "what people did"; it was only the type
of deed investigated that was different. Mr. Leath collected his social instances with the
same seriousness and patience as his snuff-boxes. He exacted a rigid conformity to his rules
of non-conformity and his scepticism had the absolute accent of a dogma. He even cherished
certain exceptions to his rules as the book-collector prizes a "defective" first edition. The
Protestant church-going of Anna's parents had provoked his gentle sarcasm; but he prided himself
on his mother's devoutness, because Madame de Chantelle, in embracing her second husband's
creed, had become part of a society which still observes the outward rites of piety.

Anna, in fact, had discovered in her amiable and elegant mother-in-law an unexpected embodiment
of the West Fifty-fifth Street ideal. Mrs. Summers and Madame de Chantelle, however strongly
they would have disagreed as to the authorized source of Christian dogma, would have found
themselves completely in accord on all the momentous minutiae of drawing-room conduct; yet
Mr. Leath treated his mother's foibles with a respect which Anna's experience of him forbade
her to attribute wholly to filial affection.

In the early days, when she was still questioning the Sphinx instead of trying to find an answer
to it, she ventured to tax her husband with his inconsistency.

"You say your mother won't like it if I call on that amusing little woman who came here the
other day, and was let in by mistake; but Madame de Chantelle tells me she lives with her husband,
and when mother refused to visit Kitty Mayne you said----"

Mr. Leath's smile arrested her. "My dear child, I don't pretend to apply the principles of
logic to my poor mother's prejudices."

"But if you admit that they ARE prejudices----?"

"There are prejudices and prejudices. My mother, of course, got hers from Monsieur de Chantelle,
and they seem to me as much in their place in this house as the pot-pourri in your hawthorn
jar. They preserve a social tradition of which I should be sorry to lose the least perfume.
Of course I don't expect you, just at first, to feel the difference, to see the nuance. In
the case of little Madame de Vireville, for instance: you point out that she's still under
her husband's roof. Very true; and if she were merely a Paris acquaintance--especially if you
had met her, as one still might, in the RIGHT KIND of house in Paris--I should be the last
to object to your visiting her. But in the country it's different. Even the best provincial
society is what you would call narrow: I don't deny it; and if some of our friends met Madame
de Vireville at Givre--well, it would produce a bad impression. You're inclined to ridicule
such considerations, but gradually you'll come to see their importance; and meanwhile, do trust
me when I ask you to be guided by my mother. It is always well for a stranger in an old society
to err a little on the side of what you call its prejudices but I should rather describe as
its traditions."

After that she no longer tried to laugh or argue her husband out of his convictions. They WERE
convictions, and therefore unassailable. Nor was any insincerity implied in the fact that they
sometimes seemed to coincide with hers. There were occasions when he really did look at things
as she did; but for reasons so different as to make the distance between them all the greater.
Life, to Mr. Leath, was like a walk through a carefully classified museum, where, in moments
of doubt, one had only to look at the number and refer to one's catalogue; to his wife it was
like groping about in a huge dark lumber-room where the exploring ray of curiosity lit up now
some shape of breathing beauty and now a mummy's grin.

In the first bewilderment of her new state these discoveries had had the effect of dropping
another layer of gauze between herself and reality. She seemed farther than ever removed from
the strong joys and pangs for which she felt herself made. She did not adopt her husband's
views, but insensibly she began to live his life. She tried to throw a compensating ardour
into the secret excursions of her spirit, and thus the old vicious distinction between romance
and reality was re-established for her, and she resigned herself again to the belief that "real
life" was neither real nor alive.

The birth of her little girl swept away this delusion. At last she felt herself in contact
with the actual business of living: but even this impression was not enduring.

Everything but the irreducible crude fact of child-bearing assumed, in the Leath household,
the same ghostly tinge of unreality. Her husband, at the time, was all that his own ideal of
a husband required. He was attentive, and even suitably moved: but as he sat by her bedside,
and thoughtfully proffered to her the list of people who had "called to enquire", she looked
first at him, and then at the child between them, and wondered at the blundering alchemy of
Nature...

With the exception of the little girl herself, everything connected with that time had grown
curiously remote and unimportant. The days that had moved so slowly as they passed seemed now
to have plunged down head-long steeps of time; and as she sat in the autumn sun, with Darrow's
letter in her hand, the history of Anna Leath appeared to its heroine like some grey shadowy
tale that she might have read in an old book, one night as she was falling asleep...

X

Two brown blurs emerging from the farther end of the wood-vista gradually defined themselves
as her step-son and an attendant game-keeper. They grew slowly upon the bluish background,
with occasional delays and re-effacements, and she sat still, waiting till they should reach
the gate at the end of the drive, where the keeper would turn off to his cottage and Owen continue
on to the house.

She watched his approach with a smile. From the first days of her marriage she had been drawn
to the boy, but it was not until after Effie's birth that she had really begun to know him.
The eager observation of her own child had shown her how much she had still to learn about
the slight fair boy whom the holidays periodically restored to Givre. Owen, even then, both
physically and morally, furnished her with the oddest of commentaries on his father's mien
and mind. He would never, the family sighingly recognized, be nearly as handsome as Mr. Leath;
but his rather charmingly unbalanced face, with its brooding forehead and petulant boyish smile,
suggested to Anna what his father's countenance might have been could one have pictured its
neat features disordered by a rattling breeze. She even pushed the analogy farther, and descried
in her step-son's mind a quaintly-twisted reflection of her husband's. With his bursts of door-slamming
activity, his fits of bookish indolence, his crude revolutionary dogmatizing and his flashes
of precocious irony, the boy was not unlike a boisterous embodiment of his father's theories.
It was as though Fraser Leath's ideas, accustomed to hang like marionettes on their pegs, should
suddenly come down and walk. There were moments, indeed, when Owen's humours must have suggested
to his progenitor the gambols of an infant Frankenstein; but to Anna they were the voice of
her secret rebellions, and her tenderness to her step-son was partly based on her severity
toward herself. As he had the courage she had lacked, so she meant him to have the chances
she had missed; and every effort she made for him helped to keep her own hopes alive.

Her interest in Owen led her to think more often of his mother, and sometimes she would slip
away and stand alone before her predecessor's portrait. Since her arrival at Givre the picture--a
"full-length" by a once fashionable artist--had undergone the successive displacements of an
exiled consort removed farther and farther from the throne; and Anna could not help noting
that these stages coincided with the gradual decline of the artist's fame. She had a fancy
that if his credit had been in the ascendant the first Mrs. Leath might have continued to throne
over the drawing-room mantel-piece, even to the exclusion of her successor's effigy. Instead
of this, her peregrinations had finally landed her in the shrouded solitude of the billiard-room,
an apartment which no one ever entered, but where it was understood that "the light was better,"
or might have been if the shutters had not been always closed.

Here the poor lady, elegantly dressed, and seated in the middle of a large lonely canvas, in
the blank contemplation of a gilt console, had always seemed to Anna to be waiting for visitors
who never came.

"Of course they never came, you poor thing! I wonder how long it took you to find out that
they never would?" Anna had more than once apostrophized her, with a derision addressed rather
to herself than to the dead; but it was only after Effie's birth that it occurred to her to
study more closely the face in the picture, and speculate on the kind of visitors that Owen's
mother might have hoped for.

"She certainly doesn't look as if they would have been the same kind as mine: but there's no
telling, from a portrait that was so obviously done 'to please the family', and that leaves
Owen so unaccounted for. Well, they never came, the visitors; they never came; and she died
of it. She died of it long before they buried her: I'm certain of that. Those are stone-dead
eyes in the picture...The loneliness must have been awful, if even Owen couldn't keep her from
dying of it. And to feel it so she must have HAD feelings--real live ones, the kind that twitch
and tug. And all she had to look at all her life was a gilt console--yes, that's it, a gilt
console screwed to the wall! That's exactly and absolutely what he is!"

She did not mean, if she could help it, that either Effie or Owen should know that loneliness,
or let her know it again. They were three, now, to keep each other warm, and she embraced both
children in the same passion of motherhood, as though one were not enough to shield her from
her predecessor's fate.

Sometimes she fancied that Owen Leath's response was warmer than that of her own child. But
then Effie was still hardly more than a baby, and Owen, from the first, had been almost "old
enough to understand": certainly DID understand now, in a tacit way that yet perpetually spoke
to her. This sense of his understanding was the deepest element in their feeling for each other.
There were so many things between them that were never spoken of, or even indirectly alluded
to, yet that, even in their occasional discussions and differences, formed the unadduced arguments
making for final agreement...

Musing on this, she continued to watch his approach; and her heart began to beat a little faster
at the thought of what she had to say to him. But when he reached the gate she saw him pause,
and after a moment he turned aside as if to gain a cross-road through the park.

She started up and waved her sunshade, but he did not see her. No doubt he meant to go back
with the gamekeeper, perhaps to the kennels, to see a retriever who had hurt his leg. Suddenly
she was seized by the whim to overtake him. She threw down the parasol, thrust her letter into
her bodice, and catching up her skirts began to run.

She was slight and light, with a natural ease and quickness of gait, but she could not recall
having run a yard since she had romped with Owen in his school-days; nor did she know what
impulse moved her now. She only knew that run she must, that no other motion, short of flight,
would have been buoyant enough for her humour. She seemed to be keeping pace with some inward
rhythm, seeking to give bodily expression to the lyric rush of her thoughts. The earth always
felt elastic under her, and she had a conscious joy in treading it; but never had it been as
soft and springy as today. It seemed actually to rise and meet her as she went, so that she
had the feeling, which sometimes came to her in dreams, of skimming miraculously over short
bright waves. The air, too, seemed to break in waves against her, sweeping by on its current
all the slanted lights and moist sharp perfumes of the failing day. She panted to herself:
"This is nonsense!" her blood hummed back: "But it's glorious!" and she sped on till she saw
that Owen had caught sight of her and was striding back in her direction.

Then she stopped and waited, flushed and laughing, her hands clasped against the letter in
her breast.

"No, I'm not mad," she called out; "but there's something in the air today--don't you feel
it?--And I wanted to have a little talk with you," she added as he came up to her, smiling
at him and linking her arm in his.

He smiled back, but above the smile she saw the shade of anxiety which, for the last two months,
had kept its fixed line between his handsome eyes.

"Owen, don't look like that! I don't want you to!" she said imperiously.

He laughed. "You said that exactly like Effie. What do you want me to do? To race with you
as I do Effie? But I shouldn't have a show!" he protested, still with the little frown between
his eyes.

"Where are you going?" she asked.

"To the kennels. But there's not the least need. The vet has seen Garry and he's all right.
If there's anything you wanted to tell me----"

"Did I say there was? I just came out to meet you--I wanted to know if you'd had good sport."

The shadow dropped on him again. "None at all. The fact is I didn't try. Jean and I have just
been knocking about in the woods. I wasn't in a sanguinary mood."

They walked on with the same light gait, so nearly of a height that keeping step came as naturally
to them as breathing. Anna stole another look at the young face on a level with her own.

"You DID say there was something you wanted to tell me," her step-son began after a pause.

"Well, there is." She slackened her pace involuntarily, and they came to a pause and stood
facing each other under the limes.

"Is Darrow coming?" he asked.

She seldom blushed, but at the question a sudden heat suffused her. She held her head high.

"Yes: he's coming. I've just heard. He arrives to-morrow. But that's not----" She saw her blunder
and tried to rectify it. "Or rather, yes, in a way it is my reason for wanting to speak to you----"

"Because he's coming?"

"Because he's not yet here."

"It's about him, then?"

He looked at her kindly, half-humourously, an almost fraternal wisdom in his smile.

"About----? No, no: I meant that I wanted to speak today because it's our last day alone together."

"Oh, I see." He had slipped his hands into the pockets of his tweed shooting jacket and lounged
along at her side, his eyes bent on the moist ruts of the drive, as though the matter had lost
all interest for him.

"Owen----"

He stopped again and faced her. "Look here, my dear, it's no sort of use."

"What's no use?"

"Anything on earth you can any of you say."

She challenged him: "Am I one of 'any of you'?"

He did not yield. "Well, then--anything on earth that even YOU can say." "You don't in the
least know what I can say--or what I mean to."

"Don't I, generally?"

She gave him this point, but only to make another. "Yes; but this is particularly. I want to
say...Owen, you've been admirable all through."

He broke into a laugh in which the odd elder-brotherly note was once more perceptible.

"Admirable," she emphasized. "And so has SHE."

"Oh, and so have you to HER!" His voice broke down to boyishness. "I've never lost sight of
that for a minute. It's been altogether easier for her, though," he threw off presently.

"On the whole, I suppose it has. Well----" she summed up with a laugh, "aren't you all the
better pleased to be told you've behaved as well as she?"

"Oh, you know, I've not done it for you," he tossed back at her, without the least note of
hostility in the affected lightness of his tone.

"Haven't you, though, perhaps--the least bit? Because, after all, you knew I understood?"

"You've been awfully kind about pretending to."

She laughed. "You don't believe me? You must remember I had your grandmother to consider."

"Yes: and my father--and Effie, I suppose--and the outraged shades of Givre!" He paused, as
if to lay more stress on the boyish sneer: "Do you likewise include the late Monsieur de Chantelle?"

His step-mother did not appear to resent the thrust. She went on, in the same tone of affectionate
persuasion: "Yes: I must have seemed to you too subject to Givre. Perhaps I have been. But
you know that was not my real object in asking you to wait, to say nothing to your grandmother
before her return."

He considered. "Your real object, of course, was to gain time."

"Yes--but for whom? Why not for YOU?"

"For me?" He flushed up quickly. "You don't mean----?"

She laid her hand on his arm and looked gravely into his handsome eyes.

"I mean that when your grandmother gets back from Ouchy I shall speak to her----" "You'll speak
to her...?"

"Yes; if only you'll promise to give me time----"

"Time for her to send for Adelaide Painter?"

"Oh, she'll undoubtedly send for Adelaide Painter!"

The allusion touched a spring of mirth in both their minds, and they exchanged a laughing look.

"Only you must promise not to rush things. You must give me time to prepare Adelaide too,"
Mrs. Leath went on.

"Prepare her too?" He drew away for a better look at her. "Prepare her for what?"

"Why, to prepare your grandmother! For your marriage. Yes, that's what I mean. I'm going to
see you through, you know----"

His feint of indifference broke down and he caught her hand. "Oh, you dear divine thing! I
didn't dream----"

"I know you didn't." She dropped her gaze and began to walk on slowly. "I can't say you've
convinced me of the wisdom of the step. Only I seem to see that other things matter more--and
that not missing things matters most. Perhaps I've changed--or YOUR not changing has convinced
me. I'm certain now that you won't budge. And that was really all I ever cared about."

"Oh, as to not budging--I told you so months ago: you might have been sure of that! And how
can you be any surer today than yesterday?"

"I don't know. I suppose one learns something every day----"

"Not at Givre!" he laughed, and shot a half-ironic look at her. "But you haven't really BEEN
at Givre lately--not for months! Don't you suppose I've noticed that, my dear?"

She echoed his laugh to merge it in an undenying sigh. "Poor Givre..."

"Poor empty Givre! With so many rooms full and yet not a soul in it--except of course my grandmother,
who is its soul!"

They had reached the gateway of the court and stood looking with a common accord at the long
soft-hued facade on which the autumn light was dying. "It looks so made to be happy in----"
she murmured.

"Yes--today, today!" He pressed her arm a little. "Oh, you darling--to have given it that look
for me!" He paused, and then went on in a lower voice: "Don't you feel we owe it to the poor
old place to do what we can to give it that look? You, too, I mean? Come, let's make it grin
from wing to wing! I've such a mad desire to say outrageous things to it--haven't you? After
all, in old times there must have been living people here!"

Loosening her arm from his she continued to gaze up at the house-front, which seemed, in the
plaintive decline of light, to send her back the mute appeal of something doomed.

"It IS beautiful," she said.

"A beautiful memory! Quite perfect to take out and turn over when I'm grinding at the law in
New York, and you're----" He broke off and looked at her with a questioning smile. "Come! Tell
me. You and I don't have to say things to talk to each other. When you turn suddenly absentminded
and mysterious I always feel like saying: 'Come back. All is discovered'."

She returned his smile. "You know as much as I know. I promise you that."

He wavered, as if for the first time uncertain how far he might go. "I don't know Darrow as
much as you know him," he presently risked.

She frowned a little. "You said just now we didn't need to say things"

"Was I speaking? I thought it was your eyes----" He caught her by both elbows and spun her
halfway round, so that the late sun shed a betraying gleam on her face. "They're such awfully
conversational eyes! Don't you suppose they told me long ago why it's just today you've made
up your mind that people have got to live their own lives--even at Givre?"

XI

"This is the south terrace," Anna said. "Should you like to walk down to the river?"

She seemed to listen to herself speaking from a far-off airy height, and yet to be wholly gathered
into the circle of consciousness which drew its glowing ring about herself and Darrow. To the
aerial listener her words sounded flat and colourless, but to the self within the ring each
one beat with a separate heart.

It was the day after Darrow's arrival, and he had come down early, drawn by the sweetness of
the light on the lawns and gardens below his window. Anna had heard the echo of his step on
the stairs, his pause in the stone-flagged hall, his voice as he asked a servant where to find
her. She was at the end of the house, in the brown-panelled sitting-room which she frequented
at that season because it caught the sunlight first and kept it longest. She stood near the
window, in the pale band of brightness, arranging some salmon-pink geraniums in a shallow porcelain
bowl. Every sensation of touch and sight was thrice-alive in her. The grey-green fur of the
geranium leaves caressed her fingers and the sunlight wavering across the irregular surface
of the old parquet floor made it seem as bright and shifting as the brown bed of a stream.

Darrow stood framed in the door-way of the farthest drawing-room, a light-grey figure against
the black and white flagging of the hall; then he began to move toward her down the empty pale-panelled
vista, crossing one after another the long reflections which a projecting cabinet or screen
cast here and there upon the shining floors.

As he drew nearer, his figure was suddenly displaced by that of her husband, whom, from the
same point, she had so often seen advancing down the same perspective. Straight, spare, erect,
looking to right and left with quick precise turns of the head, and stopping now and then to
straighten a chair or alter the position of a vase, Fraser Leath used to march toward her through
the double file of furniture like a general reviewing a regiment drawn up for his inspection.
At a certain point, midway across the second room, he always stopped before the mantel-piece
of pinkish-yellow marble and looked at himself in the tall garlanded glass that surmounted
it. She could not remember that he had ever found anything to straighten or alter in his own
studied attire, but she had never known him to omit the inspection when he passed that particular
mirror.

When it was over he continued more briskly on his way, and the resulting expression of satisfaction
was still on his face when he entered the oak sitting-room to greet his wife...

The spectral projection of this little daily scene hung but for a moment before Anna, but in
that moment she had time to fling a wondering glance across the distance between her past and
present. Then the footsteps of the present came close, and she had to drop the geraniums to
give her hand to Darrow...

"Yes, let us walk down to the river."

They had neither of them, as yet, found much to say to each other. Darrow had arrived late
on the previous afternoon, and during the evening they had had between them Owen Leath and
their own thoughts. Now they were alone for the first time and the fact was enough in itself.
Yet Anna was intensely aware that as soon as they began to talk more intimately they would
feel that they knew each other less well.

They passed out onto the terrace and down the steps to the gravel walk below. The delicate
frosting of dew gave the grass a bluish shimmer, and the sunlight, sliding in emerald streaks
along the tree-boles, gathered itself into great luminous blurs at the end of the wood-walks,
and hung above the fields a watery glory like the ring about an autumn moon.

"It's good to be here," Darrow said.

They took a turn to the left and stopped for a moment to look back at the long pink house-front,
plainer, friendlier, less adorned than on the side toward the court. So prolonged yet delicate
had been the friction of time upon its bricks that certain expanses had the bloom and texture
of old red velvet, and the patches of gold lichen spreading over them looked like the last
traces of a dim embroidery. The dome of the chapel, with its gilded cross, rose above one wing,
and the other ended in a conical pigeon-house, above which the birds were flying, lustrous
and slatey, their breasts merged in the blue of the roof when they dropped down on it.

"And this is where you've been all these years."

They turned away and began to walk down a long tunnel of yellowing trees. Benches with mossy
feet stood against the mossy edges of the path, and at its farther end it widened into a circle
about a basin rimmed with stone, in which the opaque water strewn with leaves looked like a
slab of gold-flecked agate. The path, growing narrower, wound on circuitously through the woods,
between slender serried trunks twined with ivy. Patches of blue appeared above them through
the dwindling leaves, and presently the trees drew back and showed the open fields along the river.

They walked on across the fields to the tow-path. In a curve of the wall some steps led up
to a crumbling pavilion with openings choked with ivy. Anna and Darrow seated themselves on
the bench projecting from the inner wall of the pavilion and looked across the river at the
slopes divided into blocks of green and fawn-colour, and at the chalk-tinted village lifting
its squat church-tower and grey roofs against the precisely drawn lines of the landscape. Anna
sat silent, so intensely aware of Darrow's nearness that there was no surprise in the touch
he laid on her hand. They looked at each other, and he smiled and said: "There are to be no
more obstacles now."

"Obstacles?" The word startled her. "What obstacles?"

"Don't you remember the wording of the telegram that turned me back last May? 'Unforeseen obstacle':
that was it. What was the earth-shaking problem, by the way? Finding a governess for Effie,
wasn't it?"

"But I gave you my reason: the reason why it was an obstacle. I wrote you fully about it."

"Yes, I know you did." He lifted her hand and kissed it. "How far off it all seems, and how
little it all matters today!"

She looked at him quickly. "Do you feel that? I suppose I'm different. I want to draw all those
wasted months into today--to make them a part of it."

"But they are, to me. You reach back and take everything--back to the first days of all."

She frowned a little, as if struggling with an inarticulate perplexity. "It's curious how,
in those first days, too, something that I didn't understand came between us."

"Oh, in those days we neither of us understood, did we? It's part of what's called the bliss
of being young."

"Yes, I thought that, too: thought it, I mean, in looking back. But it couldn't, even then,
have been as true of you as of me; and now----"

"Now," he said, "the only thing that matters is that we're sitting here together."

He dismissed the rest with a lightness that might have seemed conclusive evidence of her power
over him. But she took no pride in such triumphs. It seemed to her that she wanted his allegiance
and his adoration not so much for herself as for their mutual love, and that in treating lightly
any past phase of their relation he took something from its present beauty. The colour rose
to her face.

"Between you and me everything matters."

"Of course!" She felt the unperceiving sweetness of his smile. "That's why," he went on, "'everything,'
for me, is here and now: on this bench, between you and me."

She caught at the phrase. "That's what I meant: it's here and now; we can't get away from it."

"Get away from it? Do you want to? AGAIN?"

Her heart was beating unsteadily. Something in her, fitfully and with reluctance, struggled
to free itself, but the warmth of his nearness penetrated every sense as the sunlight steeped
the landscape. Then, suddenly, she felt that she wanted no less than the whole of her happiness.

"'Again'? But wasn't it YOU, the last time----?"

She paused, the tremor in her of Psyche holding up the lamp. But in the interrogative light
of her pause her companion's features underwent no change.

"The last time? Last spring? But it was you who--for the best of reasons, as you've told me--turned
me back from your very door last spring!"

She saw that he was good-humouredly ready to "thresh out," for her sentimental satisfaction,
a question which, for his own, Time had so conclusively dealt with; and the sense of his readiness
reassured her.

"I wrote as soon as I could," she rejoined. "I explained the delay and asked you to come. And
you never even answered my letter."

"It was impossible to come then. I had to go back to my post."

"And impossible to write and tell me so?"

"Your letter was a long time coming. I had waited a week--ten days. I had some excuse for thinking,
when it came, that you were in no great hurry for an answer."

"You thought that--really--after reading it?"

"I thought it."

Her heart leaped up to her throat. "Then why are you here today?"

He turned on her with a quick look of wonder. "God knows--if you can ask me that!"

"You see I was right to say I didn't understand."

He stood up abruptly and stood facing her, blocking the view over the river and the checkered
slopes. "Perhaps I might say so too."

"No, no: we must neither of us have any reason for saying it again." She looked at him gravely.
"Surely you and I needn't arrange the lights before we show ourselves to each other. I want
you to see me just as I am, with all my irrational doubts and scruples; the old ones and the
new ones too."

He came back to his seat beside her. "Never mind the old ones. They were justified--I'm willing
to admit it. With the governess having suddenly to be packed off, and Effie on your hands,
and your mother-in-law ill, I see the impossibility of your letting me come. I even see that,
at the moment, it was difficult to write and explain. But what does all that matter now? The
new scruples are the ones I want to tackle."

Again her heart trembled. She felt her happiness so near, so sure, that to strain it closer
might be like a child's crushing a pet bird in its caress. But her very security urged her
on. For so long her doubts had been knife-edged: now they had turned into bright harmless toys
that she could toss and catch without peril!

"You didn't come, and you didn't answer my letter; and after waiting four months I wrote another."
"And I answered that one; and I'm here."

"Yes." She held his eyes. "But in my last letter I repeated exactly what I'd said in the first--the
one I wrote you last June. I told you then that I was ready to give you the answer to what
you'd asked me in London; and in telling you that, I told you what the answer was."

"My dearest! My dearest!" Darrow murmured.

"You ignored that letter. All summer you made no sign. And all I ask now is, that you should
frankly tell me why."

"I can only repeat what I've just said. I was hurt and unhappy and I doubted you. I suppose
if I'd cared less I should have been more confident. I cared so much that I couldn't risk another
failure. For you'd made me feel that I'd miserably failed. So I shut my eyes and set my teeth
and turned my back. There's the whole pusillanimous truth of it!"

"Oh, if it's the WHOLE truth!----" She let him clasp her. "There's my torment, you see. I thought
that was what your silence meant till I made you break it. Now I want to be sure that I was right."

"What can I tell you to make you sure?"

"You can let me tell YOU everything first." She drew away, but without taking her hands from
him. "Owen saw you in Paris," she began.

She looked at him and he faced her steadily. The light was full on his pleasantly-browned face,
his grey eyes, his frank white forehead. She noticed for the first time a seal-ring in a setting
of twisted silver on the hand he had kept on hers.

"In Paris? Oh, yes...So he did."

"He came back and told me. I think you talked to him a moment in a theatre. I asked if you'd
spoken of my having put you off--or if you'd sent me any message. He didn't remember that you had."

"In a crush--in a Paris foyer? My dear!"

"It was absurd of me! But Owen and I have always been on odd kind of brother-and-sister terms.
I think he guessed about us when he saw you with me in London. So he teased me a little and
tried to make me curious about you; and when he saw he'd succeeded he told me he hadn't had
time to say much to you because you were in such a hurry to get back to the lady you were with."

He still held her hands, but she felt no tremor in his, and the blood did not stir in his brown
cheek. He seemed to be honestly turning over his memories. "Yes: and what else did he tell you?"

"Oh, not much, except that she was awfully pretty. When I asked him to describe her he said
you had her tucked away in a baignoire and he hadn't actually seen her; but he saw the tail
of her cloak, and somehow knew from that that she was pretty. One DOES, you know...I think
he said the cloak was pink."

Darrow broke into a laugh. "Of course it was--they always are! So that was at the bottom of
your doubts?"

"Not at first. I only laughed. But afterward, when I wrote you and you didn't answer----Oh,
you DO see?" she appealed to him.

He was looking at her gently. "Yes: I see."

"It's not as if this were a light thing between us. I want you to know me as I am. If I thought
that at that moment...when you were on your way here, almost----"

He dropped her hand and stood up. "Yes, yes--I understand."

"But do you?" Her look followed him. "I'm not a goose of a girl. I know...of course I KNOW...but
there are things a woman feels...when what she knows doesn't make any difference. It's not
that I want you to explain--I mean about that particular evening. It's only that I want you
to have the whole of my feeling. I didn't know what it was till I saw you again. I never dreamed
I should say such things to you!"

"I never dreamed I should be here to hear you say them!" He turned back and lifting a floating
end of her scarf put his lips to it. "But now that you have, I know--I know," he smiled down
at her.

"You know?"

"That this is no light thing between us. Now you may ask me anything you please! That was all
I wanted to ask YOU."

For a long moment they looked at each other without speaking. She saw the dancing spirit in
his eyes turn grave and darken to a passionate sternness. He stooped and kissed her, and she
sat as if folded in wings.

XII

It was in the natural order of things that, on the way back to the house, their talk should
have turned to the future.

Anna was not eager to define it. She had an extraordinary sensitiveness to the impalpable elements
of happiness, and as she walked at Darrow's side her imagination flew back and forth, spinning
luminous webs of feeling between herself and the scene about her. Every heightening of emotion
produced for her a new effusion of beauty in visible things, and with it the sense that such
moments should be lingered over and absorbed like some unrenewable miracle. She understood
Darrow's impatience to see their plans take shape. She knew it must be so, she would not have
had it otherwise; but to reach a point where she could fix her mind on his appeal for dates
and decisions was like trying to break her way through the silver tangle of an April wood.

Darrow wished to use his diplomatic opportunities as a means of studying certain economic and
social problems with which he presently hoped to deal in print; and with this in view he had
asked for, and obtained, a South American appointment. Anna was ready to follow where he led,
and not reluctant to put new sights as well as new thoughts between herself and her past. She
had, in a direct way, only Effie and Effie's education to consider; and there seemed, after
due reflection, no reason why the most anxious regard for these should not be conciliated with
the demands of Darrow's career. Effie, it was evident, could be left to Madame de Chantelle's
care till the couple should have organized their life; and she might even, as long as her future
step-father's work retained him in distant posts, continue to divide her year between Givre
and the antipodes.

As for Owen, who had reached his legal majority two years before, and was soon to attain the
age fixed for the taking over of his paternal inheritance, the arrival of this date would reduce
his step-mother's responsibility to a friendly concern for his welfare. This made for the prompt
realization of Darrow's wishes, and there seemed no reason why the marriage should not take
place within the six weeks that remained of his leave.

They passed out of the wood-walk into the open brightness of the garden. The noon sunlight
sheeted with gold the bronze flanks of the polygonal yews. Chrysanthemums, russet, saffron
and orange, glowed like the efflorescence of an enchanted forest; belts of red begonia purpling
to wine-colour ran like smouldering flame among the borders; and above this outspread tapestry
the house extended its harmonious length, the soberness of its lines softened to grace in the
luminous misty air.

Darrow stood still, and Anna felt that his glance was travelling from her to the scene about
them and then back to her face.

"You're sure you're prepared to give up Givre? You look so made for each other!"

"Oh, Givre----" She broke off suddenly, feeling as if her too careless tone had delivered all
her past into his hands; and with one of her instinctive movements of recoil she added: "When
Owen marries I shall have to give it up."

"When Owen marries? That's looking some distance ahead! I want to be told that meanwhile you'll
have no regrets."

She hesitated. Why did he press her to uncover to him her poor starved past? A vague feeling
of loyalty, a desire to spare what could no longer harm her, made her answer evasively: "There
will probably be no 'meanwhile.' Owen may marry before long."

She had not meant to touch on the subject, for her step-son had sworn her to provisional secrecy;
but since the shortness of Darrow's leave necessitated a prompt adjustment of their own plans,
it was, after all, inevitable that she should give him at least a hint of Owen's.

"Owen marry? Why, he always seems like a faun in flannels! I hope he's found a dryad. There
might easily be one left in these blue-and-gold woods."

"I can't tell you yet where he found his dryad, but she IS one, I believe: at any rate she'll
become the Givre woods better than I do. Only there may be difficulties----"

"Well! At that age they're not always to be wished away."

She hesitated. "Owen, at any rate, has made up his mind to overcome them; and I've promised
to see him through."

She went on, after a moment's consideration, to explain that her step-son's choice was, for
various reasons, not likely to commend itself to his grandmother. "She must be prepared for
it, and I've promised to do the preparing. You know I always HAVE seen him through things,
and he rather counts on me now."

She fancied that Darrow's exclamation had in it a faint note of annoyance, and wondered if
he again suspected her of seeking a pretext for postponement.

"But once Owen's future is settled, you won't, surely, for the sake of what you call seeing
him through, ask that I should go away again without you?" He drew her closer as they walked.
"Owen will understand, if you don't. Since he's in the same case himself I'll throw myself
on his mercy. He'll see that I have the first claim on you; he won't even want you not to see it."

"Owen sees everything: I'm not afraid of that. But his future isn't settled. He's very young
to marry--too young, his grandmother is sure to think--and the marriage he wants to make is
not likely to convince her to the contrary."

"You don't mean that it's like his first choice?"

"Oh, no! But it's not what Madame de Chantelle would call a good match; it's not even what
I call a wise one."

"Yet you're backing him up?"

"Yet I'm backing him up." She paused. "I wonder if you'll understand? What I've most wanted
for him, and shall want for Effie, is that they shall always feel free to make their own mistakes,
and never, if possible, be persuaded to make other people's. Even if Owen's marriage is a mistake,
and has to be paid for, I believe he'll learn and grow in the paying. Of course I can't make
Madame de Chantelle see this; but I can remind her that, with his character--his big rushes
of impulse, his odd intervals of ebb and apathy--she may drive him into some worse blunder
if she thwarts him now."

"And you mean to break the news to her as soon as she comes back from Ouchy?"

"As soon as I see my way to it. She knows the girl and likes her: that's our hope. And yet
it may, in the end, prove our danger, make it harder for us all, when she learns the truth,
than if Owen had chosen a stranger. I can't tell you more till I've told her: I've promised
Owen not to tell any one. All I ask you is to give me time, to give me a few days at any rate
She's been wonderfully 'nice,' as she would call it, about you, and about the fact of my having
soon to leave Givre; but that, again, may make it harder for Owen. At any rate, you can see,
can't you, how it makes me want to stand by him? You see, I couldn't bear it if the least fraction
of my happiness seemed to be stolen from his--as if it were a little scrap of happiness that
had to be pieced out with other people's!" She clasped her hands on Darrow's arm. "I want our
life to be like a house with all the windows lit: I'd like to string lanterns from the roof
and chimneys!"

She ended with an inward tremor. All through her exposition and her appeal she had told herself
that the moment could hardly have been less well chosen. In Darrow's place she would have felt,
as he doubtless did, that her carefully developed argument was only the disguise of an habitual
indecision. It was the hour of all others when she would have liked to affirm herself by brushing
aside every obstacle to his wishes; yet it was only by opposing them that she could show the
strength of character she wanted him to feel in her.

But as she talked she began to see that Darrow's face gave back no reflection of her words,
that he continued to wear the abstracted look of a man who is not listening to what is said
to him. It caused her a slight pang to discover that his thoughts could wander at such a moment;
then, with a flush of joy she perceived the reason.

In some undefinable way she had become aware, without turning her head, that he was steeped
in the sense of her nearness, absorbed in contemplating the details of her face and dress;
and the discovery made the words throng to her lips. She felt herself speak with ease, authority,
conviction. She said to herself: "He doesn't care what I say--it's enough that I say it--even
if it's stupid he'll like me better for it..." She knew that every inflexion of her voice,
every gesture, every characteristic of her person--its very defects, the fact that her forehead
was too high, that her eyes were not large enough, that her hands, though slender, were not
small, and that the fingers did not taper--she knew that these deficiencies were so many channels
through which her influence streamed to him; that she pleased him in spite of them, perhaps
because of them; that he wanted her as she was, and not as she would have liked to be; and
for the first time she felt in her veins the security and lightness of happy love.

They reached the court and walked under the limes toward the house. The hall door stood wide,
and through the windows opening on the terrace the sun slanted across the black and white floor,
the faded tapestry chairs, and Darrow's travelling coat and cap, which lay among the cloaks
and rugs piled on a bench against the wall.

The sight of these garments, lying among her own wraps, gave her a sense of homely intimacy.
It was as if her happiness came down from the skies and took on the plain dress of daily things.
At last she seemed to hold it in her hand.

As they entered the hall her eye lit on an unstamped note conspicuously placed on the table.

"From Owen! He must have rushed off somewhere in the motor."

She felt a secret stir of pleasure at the immediate inference that she and Darrow would probably
lunch alone. Then she opened the note and stared at it in wonder.

"Dear," Owen wrote, "after what you said yesterday I can't wait another hour, and I'm off to
Francheuil, to catch the Dijon express and travel back with them. Don't be frightened; I won't
speak unless it's safe to. Trust me for that--but I had to go."

She looked up slowly.

"He's gone to Dijon to meet his grandmother. Oh, I hope I haven't made a mistake!"

"You? Why, what have you to do with his going to Dijon?"

She hesitated. "The day before yesterday I told him, for the first time, that I meant to see
him through, no matter what happened. And I'm afraid he's lost his head, and will be imprudent
and spoil things. You see, I hadn't meant to say a word to him till I'd had time to prepare
Madame de Chantelle."

She felt that Darrow was looking at her and reading her thoughts, and the colour flew to her
face. "Yes: it was when I heard you were coming that I told him. I wanted him to feel as I
felt...it seemed too unkind to make him wait!" Her hand was in his, and his arm rested for
a moment on her shoulder.

"It WOULD have been too unkind to make him wait."

They moved side by side toward the stairs. Through the haze of bliss enveloping her, Owen's
affairs seemed curiously unimportant and remote. Nothing really mattered but this torrent of
light in her veins. She put her foot on the lowest step, saying: "It's nearly luncheon time--I
must take off my hat..." and as she started up the stairs Darrow stood below in the hall and
watched her. But the distance between them did not make him seem less near: it was as if his
thoughts moved with her and touched her like endearing hands.

In her bedroom she shut the door and stood still, looking about her in a fit of dreamy wonder.
Her feelings were unlike any she had ever known: richer, deeper, more complete. For the first
time everything in her, from head to foot, seemed to be feeding the same full current of sensation.

She took off her hat and went to the dressing-table to smooth her hair. The pressure of the
hat had flattened the dark strands on her forehead; her face was paler than usual, with shadows
about the eyes. She felt a pang of regret for the wasted years. "If I look like this today,"
she said to herself, "what will he think of me when I'm ill or worried?" She began to run her
fingers through her hair, rejoicing in its thickness; then she desisted and sat still, resting
her chin on her hands.

"I want him to see me as I am," she thought.

Deeper than the deepest fibre of her vanity was the triumphant sense that AS SHE WAS, with
her flattened hair, her tired pallor, her thin sleeves a little tumbled by the weight of her
jacket, he would like her even better, feel her nearer, dearer, more desirable, than in all
the splendours she might put on for him. In the light of this discovery she studied her face
with a new intentness, seeing its defects as she had never seen them, yet seeing them through
a kind of radiance, as though love were a luminous medium into which she had been bodily plunged.

She was glad now that she had confessed her doubts and her jealousy. She divined that a man
in love may be flattered by such involuntary betrayals, that there are moments when respect
for his liberty appeals to him less than the inability to respect it: moments so propitious
that a woman's very mistakes and indiscretions may help to establish her dominion. The sense
of power she had been aware of in talking to Darrow came back with ten-fold force. She felt
like testing him by the most fantastic exactions, and at the same moment she longed to humble
herself before him, to make herself the shadow and echo of his mood. She wanted to linger with
him in a world of fancy and yet to walk at his side in the world of fact. She wanted him to
feel her power and yet to love her for her ignorance and humility. She felt like a slave, and
a goddess, and a girl in her teens...

XIII

Darrow, late that evening, threw himself into an armchair before his fire and mused.

The room was propitious to meditation. The red-veiled lamp, the corners of shadow, the splashes
of firelight on the curves of old full-bodied wardrobes and cabinets, gave it an air of intimacy
increased by its faded hangings, its slightly frayed and threadbare rugs. Everything in it
was harmoniously shabby, with a subtle sought-for shabbiness in which Darrow fancied he discerned
the touch of Fraser Leath. But Fraser Leath had grown so unimportant a factor in the scheme
of things that these marks of his presence caused the young man no emotion beyond that of a
faint retrospective amusement.

The afternoon and evening had been perfect.

After a moment of concern over her step-son's departure, Anna had surrendered herself to her
happiness with an impetuosity that Darrow had never suspected in her. Early in the afternoon
they had gone out in the motor, traversing miles of sober-tinted landscape in which, here and
there, a scarlet vineyard flamed, clattering through the streets of stony villages, coming
out on low slopes above the river, or winding through the pale gold of narrow wood-roads with
the blue of clear-cut hills at their end. Over everything lay a faint sunshine that seemed
dissolved in the still air, and the smell of wet roots and decaying leaves was merged in the
pungent scent of burning underbrush. Once, at the turn of a wall, they stopped the motor before
a ruined gateway and, stumbling along a road full of ruts, stood before a little old deserted
house, fantastically carved and chimneyed, which lay in a moat under the shade of ancient trees.
They paced the paths between the trees, found a mouldy Temple of Love on an islet among reeds
and plantains, and, sitting on a bench in the stable-yard, watched the pigeons circling against
the sunset over their cot of patterned brick. Then the motor flew on into the dusk...

When they came in they sat beside the fire in the oak drawing-room, and Darrow noticed how
delicately her head stood out against the sombre panelling, and mused on the enjoyment there
would always be in the mere fact of watching her hands as they moved about among the tea-things...

They dined late, and facing her across the table, with its low lights and flowers, he felt
an extraordinary pleasure in seeing her again in evening dress, and in letting his eyes dwell
on the proud shy set of her head, the way her dark hair clasped it, and the girlish thinness
of her neck above the slight swell of the breast. His imagination was struck by the quality
of reticence in her beauty. She suggested a fine portrait kept down to a few tones, or a Greek
vase on which the play of light is the only pattern.

After dinner they went out on the terrace for a look at the moon-misted park. Through the crepuscular
whiteness the trees hung in blotted masses. Below the terrace, the garden drew its dark diagrams
between statues that stood like muffled conspirators on the edge of the shadow. Farther off,
the meadows unrolled a silver-shot tissue to the mantling of mist above the river; and the
autumn stars trembled overhead like their own reflections seen in dim water.

He lit his cigar, and they walked slowly up and down the flags in the languid air, till he
put an arm about her, saying: "You mustn't stay till you're chilled"; then they went back into
the room and drew up their chairs to the fire.

It seemed only a moment later that she said: "It must be after eleven," and stood up and looked
down on him, smiling faintly. He sat still, absorbing the look, and thinking: "There'll be
evenings and evenings"--till she came nearer, bent over him, and with a hand on his shoulder
said: "Good night."

He got to his feet and put his arms about her.

"Good night," he answered, and held her fast; and they gave each other a long kiss of promise
and communion.

The memory of it glowed in him still as he sat over his crumbling fire; but beneath his physical
exultation he felt a certain gravity of mood. His happiness was in some sort the rallying-point
of many scattered purposes. He summed it up vaguely by saying to himself that to be loved by
a woman like that made "all the difference"...He was a little tired of experimenting on life;
he wanted to "take a line", to follow things up, to centralize and concentrate, and produce
results. Two or three more years of diplomacy--with her beside him!--and then their real life
would begin: study, travel and book-making for him, and for her--well, the joy, at any rate,
of getting out of an atmosphere of bric-a-brac and card-leaving into the open air of competing
activities.

The desire for change had for some time been latent in him, and his meeting with Mrs. Leath
the previous spring had given it a definite direction. With such a comrade to focus and stimulate
his energies he felt modestly but agreeably sure of "doing something". And under this assurance
was the lurking sense that he was somehow worthy of his opportunity. His life, on the whole,
had been a creditable affair. Out of modest chances and middling talents he had built himself
a fairly marked personality, known some exceptional people, done a number of interesting and
a few rather difficult things, and found himself, at thirty-seven, possessed of an intellectual
ambition sufficient to occupy the passage to a robust and energetic old age. As for the private
and personal side of his life, it had come up to the current standards, and if it had dropped,
now and then, below a more ideal measure, even these declines had been brief, parenthetic,
incidental. In the recognized essentials he had always remained strictly within the limit of
his scruples.

From this reassuring survey of his case he came back to the contemplation of its crowning felicity.
His mind turned again to his first meeting with Anna Summers and took up one by one the threads
of their faintly sketched romance. He dwelt with pardonable pride on the fact that fate had
so early marked him for the high privilege of possessing her: it seemed to mean that they had
really, in the truest sense of the ill-used phrase, been made for each other.

Deeper still than all these satisfactions was the mere elemental sense of well-being in her
presence. That, after all, was what proved her to be the woman for him: the pleasure he took
in the set of her head, the way her hair grew on her forehead and at the nape, her steady gaze
when he spoke, the grave freedom of her gait and gestures. He recalled every detail of her
face, the fine veinings of the temples, the bluish-brown shadows in her upper lids, and the
way the reflections of two stars seemed to form and break up in her eyes when he held her close
to him...

If he had had any doubt as to the nature of her feeling for him those dissolving stars would
have allayed it. She was reserved, she was shy even, was what the shallow and effusive would
call "cold". She was like a picture so hung that it can be seen only at a certain angle: an
angle known to no one but its possessor. The thought flattered his sense of possessorship...He
felt that the smile on his lips would have been fatuous had it had a witness. He was thinking
of her look when she had questioned him about his meeting with Owen at the theatre: less of
her words than of her look, and of the effort the question cost her: the reddening of her cheek,
the deepening of the strained line between her brows, the way her eyes sought shelter and then
turned and drew on him. Pride and passion were in the conflict--magnificent qualities in a
wife! The sight almost made up for his momentary embarrassment at the rousing of a memory which
had no place in his present picture of himself.

Yes! It was worth a good deal to watch that fight between her instinct and her intelligence,
and know one's self the object of the struggle...

Mingled with these sensations were considerations of another order. He reflected with satisfaction
that she was the kind of woman with whom one would like to be seen in public. It would be distinctly
agreeable to follow her into drawing-rooms, to walk after her down the aisle of a theatre,
to get in and out of trains with her, to say "my wife" of her to all sorts of people. He draped
these details in the handsome phrase "She's a woman to be proud of", and felt that this fact
somehow justified and ennobled his instinctive boyish satisfaction in loving her.

He stood up, rambled across the room and leaned out for a while into the starry night. Then
he dropped again into his armchair with a sigh of deep content.

"Oh, hang it," he suddenly exclaimed, "it's the best thing that's ever happened to me, anyhow!"

The next day was even better. He felt, and knew she felt, that they had reached a clearer understanding
of each other. It was as if, after a swim through bright opposing waves, with a dazzle of sun
in their eyes, they had gained an inlet in the shades of a cliff, where they could float on
the still surface and gaze far down into the depths.

Now and then, as they walked and talked, he felt a thrill of youthful wonder at the coincidence
of their views and their experiences, at the way their minds leapt to the same point in the
same instant.

"The old delusion, I suppose," he smiled to himself. "Will Nature never tire of the trick?"

But he knew it was more than that. There were moments in their talk when he felt, distinctly
and unmistakably, the solid ground of friendship underneath the whirling dance of his sensations.
"How I should like her if I didn't love her!" he summed it up, wondering at the miracle of
such a union.

In the course of the morning a telegram had come from Owen Leath, announcing that he, his grandmother
and Effie would arrive from Dijon that afternoon at four. The station of the main line was
eight or ten miles from Givre, and Anna, soon after three, left in the motor to meet the travellers.

When she had gone Darrow started for a walk, planning to get back late, in order that the reunited
family might have the end of the afternoon to themselves. He roamed the country-side till long
after dark, and the stable-clock of Givre was striking seven as he walked up the avenue to
the court.

In the hall, coming down the stairs, he encountered Anna. Her face was serene, and his first
glance showed him that Owen had kept his word and that none of her forebodings had been fulfilled.

She had just come down from the school-room, where Effie and the governess were having supper;
the little girl, she told him, looked immensely better for her Swiss holiday, but was dropping
with sleep after the journey, and too tired to make her habitual appearance in the drawing-room
before being put to bed. Madame de Chantelle was resting, but would be down for dinner; and
as for Owen, Anna supposed he was off somewhere in the park--he had a passion for prowling
about the park at nightfall...

Darrow followed her into the brown room, where the tea-table had been left for him. He declined
her offer of tea, but she lingered a moment to tell him that Owen had in fact kept his word,
and that Madame de Chantelle had come back in the best of humours, and unsuspicious of the
blow about to fall.

"She has enjoyed her month at Ouchy, and it has given her a lot to talk about--her symptoms,
and the rival doctors, and the people at the hotel. It seems she met your Ambassadress there,
and Lady Wantley, and some other London friends of yours, and she's heard what she calls 'delightful
things' about you: she told me to tell you so. She attaches great importance to the fact that
your grandmother was an Everard of Albany. She's prepared to open her arms to you. I don't
know whether it won't make it harder for poor Owen...the contrast, I mean...There are no Ambassadresses
or Everards to vouch for HIS choice! But you'll help me, won't you? You'll help me to help
him? To-morrow I'll tell you the rest. Now I must rush up and tuck in Effie..."

"Oh, you'll see, we'll pull it off for him!" he assured her; "together, we can't fail to pull
it off."

He stood and watched her with a smile as she fled down the half-lit vista to the hall.

XIV

If Darrow, on entering the drawing-room before dinner, examined its new occupant with unusual
interest, it was more on Owen Leath's account than his own.

Anna's hints had roused his interest in the lad's love affair, and he wondered what manner
of girl the heroine of the coming conflict might be. He had guessed that Owen's rebellion symbolized
for his step-mother her own long struggle against the Leath conventions, and he understood
that if Anna so passionately abetted him it was partly because, as she owned, she wanted his
liberation to coincide with hers.

The lady who was to represent, in the impending struggle, the forces of order and tradition
was seated by the fire when Darrow entered. Among the flowers and old furniture of the large
pale-panelled room, Madame de Chantelle had the inanimate elegance of a figure introduced into
a "still-life" to give the scale. And this, Darrow reflected, was exactly what she doubtless
regarded as her chief obligation: he was sure she thought a great deal of "measure", and approved
of most things only up to a certain point. She was a woman of sixty, with a figure at once
young and old-fashioned. Her fair faded tints, her quaint corseting, the passementerie on her
tight-waisted dress, the velvet band on her tapering arm, made her resemble a "carte de visite"
photograph of the middle sixties. One saw her, younger but no less invincibly lady-like, leaning
on a chair with a fringed back, a curl in her neck, a locket on her tuckered bosom, toward
the end of an embossed morocco album beginning with The Beauties of the Second Empire.

She received her daughter-in-law's suitor with an affability which implied her knowledge and
approval of his suit. Darrow had already guessed her to be a person who would instinctively
oppose any suggested changes, and then, after one had exhausted one's main arguments, unexpectedly
yield to some small incidental reason, and adhere doggedly to her new position. She boasted
of her old-fashioned prejudices, talked a good deal of being a grandmother, and made a show
of reaching up to tap Owen's shoulder, though his height was little more than hers.

She was full of a small pale prattle about the people she had seen at Ouchy, as to whom she
had the minute statistical information of a gazetteer, without any apparent sense of personal
differences. She said to Darrow: "They tell me things are very much changed in America...Of
course in my youth there WAS a Society"...She had no desire to return there she was sure the
standards must be so different. "There are charming people everywhere...and one must always
look on the best side...but when one has lived among Traditions it's difficult to adapt one's
self to the new ideas...These dreadful views of marriage...it's so hard to explain them to
my French relations...I'm thankful to say I don't pretend to understand them myself! But YOU'RE
an Everard--I told Anna last spring in London that one sees that instantly"...

She wandered off to the cooking and the service of the hotel at Ouchy. She attached great importance
to gastronomic details and to the manners of hotel servants. There, too, there was a falling
off, she said. "I don t know, of course; but people say it's owing to the Americans. Certainly
my waiter had a way of slapping down the dishes...they tell me that many of them are Anarchists...belong
to Unions, you know." She appealed to Darrow's reported knowledge of economic conditions to
confirm this ominous rumour.

After dinner Owen Leath wandered into the next room, where the piano stood, and began to play
among the shadows. His step-mother presently joined him, and Darrow sat alone with Madame de
Chantelle.

She took up the thread of her mild chat and carried it on at the same pace as her knitting.
Her conversation resembled the large loose-stranded web between her fingers: now and then she
dropped a stitch, and went on regardless of the gap in the pattern.

Darrow listened with a lazy sense of well-being. In the mental lull of the after-dinner hour,
with harmonious memories murmuring through his mind, and the soft tints and shadowy spaces
of the fine old room charming his eyes to indolence, Madame de Chantelle's discourse seemed
not out of place. He could understand that, in the long run, the atmosphere of Givre might
be suffocating; but in his present mood its very limitations had a grace.

Presently he found the chance to say a word in his own behalf; and thereupon measured the advantage,
never before particularly apparent to him, of being related to the Everards of Albany. Madame
de Chantelle's conception of her native country--to which she had not returned since her twentieth
year--reminded him of an ancient geographer's map of the Hyperborean regions. It was all a
foggy blank, from which only one or two fixed outlines emerged; and one of these belonged to
the Everards of Albany.

The fact that they offered such firm footing--formed, so to speak, a friendly territory on
which the opposing powers could meet and treat--helped him through the task of explaining and
justifying himself as the successor of Fraser Leath. Madame de Chantelle could not resist such
incontestable claims. She seemed to feel her son's hovering and discriminating presence, and
she gave Darrow the sense that he was being tested and approved as a last addition to the Leath
Collection.

She also made him aware of the immense advantage he possessed in belonging to the diplomatic
profession. She spoke of this humdrum calling as a Career, and gave Darrow to understand that
she supposed him to have been seducing Duchesses when he was not negotiating Treaties. He heard
again quaint phrases which romantic old ladies had used in his youth: "Brilliant diplomatic
society...social advantages...the entree everywhere...nothing else FORMS a young man in the
same way..." and she sighingly added that she could have wished her grandson had chosen the
same path to glory.

Darrow prudently suppressed his own view of the profession, as well as the fact that he had
adopted it provisionally, and for reasons less social than sociological; and the talk presently
passed on to the subject of his future plans.

Here again, Madame de Chantelle's awe of the Career made her admit the necessity of Anna's
consenting to an early marriage. The fact that Darrow was "ordered" to South America seemed
to put him in the romantic light of a young soldier charged to lead a forlorn hope: she sighed
and said: "At such moments a wife's duty is at her husband's side."

The problem of Effie's future might have disturbed her, she added; but since Anna, for a time,
consented to leave the little girl with her, that problem was at any rate deferred. She spoke
plaintively of the responsibility of looking after her granddaughter, but Darrow divined that
she enjoyed the flavour of the word more than she felt the weight of the fact.

"Effie's a perfect child. She's more like my son, perhaps, than dear Owen. She'll never intentionally
give me the least trouble. But of course the responsibility will be great...I'm not sure I
should dare to undertake it if it were not for her having such a treasure of a governess. Has
Anna told you about our little governess? After all the worry we had last year, with one impossible
creature after another, it seems providential, just now, to have found her. At first we were
afraid she was too young; but now we've the greatest confidence in her. So clever and amusing--and
SUCH a lady! I don't say her education's all it might be...no drawing or singing...but one
can't have everything; and she speaks Italian..."

Madame de Chantelle's fond insistence on the likeness between Effie Leath and her father, if
not particularly gratifying to Darrow, had at least increased his desire to see the little
girl. It gave him an odd feeling of discomfort to think that she should have any of the characteristics
of the late Fraser Leath: he had, somehow, fantastically pictured her as the mystical offspring
of the early tenderness between himself and Anna Summers.

His encounter with Effie took place the next morning, on the lawn below the terrace, where
he found her, in the early sunshine, knocking about golf balls with her brother. Almost at
once, and with infinite relief, he saw that the resemblance of which Madame de Chantelle boasted
was mainly external. Even that discovery was slightly distasteful, though Darrow was forced
to own that Fraser Leath's straight-featured fairness had lent itself to the production of
a peculiarly finished image of childish purity. But it was evident that other elements had
also gone to the making of Effie, and that another spirit sat in her eyes. Her serious handshake,
her "pretty" greeting, were worthy of the Leath tradition, and he guessed her to be more malleable
than Owen, more subject to the influences of Givre; but the shout with which she returned to
her romp had in it the note of her mother's emancipation.

He had begged a holiday for her, and when Mrs. Leath appeared he and she and the little girl
went off for a ramble. Anna wished her daughter to have time to make friends with Darrow before
learning in what relation he was to stand to her; and the three roamed the woods and fields
till the distant chime of the stable-clock made them turn back for luncheon.

Effie, who was attended by a shaggy terrier, had picked up two or three subordinate dogs at
the stable; and as she trotted on ahead with her yapping escort, Anna hung back to throw a
look at Darrow.

"Yes," he answered it, "she's exquisite...Oh, I see what I'm asking of you! But she'll be quite
happy here, won't she? And you must remember it won't be for long..."

Anna sighed her acquiescence. "Oh, she'll be happy here. It's her nature to be happy. She'll
apply herself to it, conscientiously, as she does to her lessons, and to what she calls 'being
good'...In a way, you see, that's just what worries me. Her idea of 'being good' is to please
the person she's with--she puts her whole dear little mind on it! And so, if ever she's with
the wrong person----"

"But surely there's no danger of that just now? Madame de Chantelle tells me that you've at
last put your hand on a perfect governess----"

Anna, without answering, glanced away from him toward her daughter.

"It's lucky, at any rate," Darrow continued, "that Madame de Chantelle thinks her so."

"Oh, I think very highly of her too."

"Highly enough to feel quite satisfied to leave her with Effie?"

"Yes. She's just the person for Effie. Only, of course, one never knows...She's young, and
she might take it into her head to leave us..." After a pause she added: "I'm naturally anxious
to know what you think of her."

When they entered the house the hands of the hall clock stood within a few minutes of the luncheon
hour. Anna led Effie off to have her hair smoothed and Darrow wandered into the oak sitting-room,
which he found untenanted. The sun lay pleasantly on its brown walls, on the scattered books
and the flowers in old porcelain vases. In his eyes lingered the vision of the dark-haired
mother mounting the stairs with her little fair daughter. The contrast between them seemed
a last touch of grace in the complex harmony of things. He stood in the window, looking out
at the park, and brooding inwardly upon his happiness...

He was roused by Effie's voice and the scamper of her feet down the long floors behind him.

"Here he is! Here he is!" she cried, flying over the threshold.

He turned and stooped to her with a smile, and as she caught his hand he perceived that she
was trying to draw him toward some one who had paused behind her in the doorway, and whom he
supposed to be her mother.

"HERE he is!" Effie repeated, with her sweet impatience.

The figure in the doorway came forward and Darrow, looking up, found himself face to face with
Sophy Viner. They stood still, a yard or two apart, and looked at each other without speaking.

As they paused there, a shadow fell across one of the terrace windows, and Owen Leath stepped
whistling into the room. In his rough shooting clothes, with the glow of exercise under his
fair skin, he looked extraordinarily light-hearted and happy. Darrow, with a quick side-glance,
noticed this, and perceived also that the glow on the youth's cheek had deepened suddenly to
red. He too stopped short, and the three stood there motionless for a barely perceptible beat
of time. During its lapse, Darrow's eyes had turned back from Owen's face to that of the girl
between them. He had the sense that, whatever was done, it was he who must do it, and that
it must be done immediately. He went forward and held out his hand.

"How do you do, Miss Viner?"

She answered: "How do you do?" in a voice that sounded clear and natural; and the next moment
he again became aware of steps behind him, and knew that Mrs. Leath was in the room.

To his strained senses there seemed to be another just measurable pause before Anna said, looking
gaily about the little group: "Has Owen introduced you? This is Effie's friend, Miss Viner."

Effie, still hanging on her governess's arm, pressed herself closer with a little gesture of
appropriation; and Miss Viner laid her hand on her pupil's hair.

Darrow felt that Anna's eyes had turned to him.

"I think Miss Viner and I have met already--several years ago in London."

"I remember," said Sophy Viner, in the same clear voice.

"How charming! Then we're all friends. But luncheon must be ready," said Mrs. Leath.

She turned back to the door, and the little procession moved down the two long drawing-rooms,
with Effie waltzing on ahead.

XV

Madame de Chantelle and Anna had planned, for the afternoon, a visit to a remotely situated
acquaintance whom the introduction of the motor had transformed into a neighbour. Effie was
to pay for her morning's holiday by an hour or two in the school-room, and Owen suggested that
he and Darrow should betake themselves to a distant covert in the desultory quest for pheasants.

Darrow was not an ardent sportsman, but any pretext for physical activity would have been acceptable
at the moment; and he was glad both to get away from the house and not to be left to himself.

When he came downstairs the motor was at the door, and Anna stood before the hall mirror, swathing
her hat in veils. She turned at the sound of his step and smiled at him for a long full moment.

"I'd no idea you knew Miss Viner," she said, as he helped her into her long coat.

"It came back to me, luckily, that I'd seen her two or three times in London, several years
ago. She was secretary, or something of the sort, in the background of a house where I used
to dine."

He loathed the slighting indifference of the phrase, but he had uttered it deliberately, had
been secretly practising it all through the interminable hour at the luncheon-table. Now that
it was spoken, he shivered at its note of condescension. In such cases one was almost sure
to overdo...But Anna seemed to notice nothing unusual.

"Was she really? You must tell me all about it--tell me exactly how she struck you. I'm so
glad it turns out that you know her."

"'Know' is rather exaggerated: we used to pass each other on the stairs."

Madame de Chantelle and Owen appeared together as he spoke, and Anna, gathering up her wraps,
said: "You'll tell me about that, then. Try and remember everything you can."

As he tramped through the woods at his young host's side, Darrow felt the partial relief from
thought produced by exercise and the obligation to talk. Little as he cared for shooting, he
had the habit of concentration which makes it natural for a man to throw himself wholly into
whatever business he has in hand, and there were moments of the afternoon when a sudden whirr
in the undergrowth, a vivider gleam against the hazy browns and greys of the woods, was enough
to fill the foreground of his attention. But all the while, behind these voluntarily emphasized
sensations, his secret consciousness continued to revolve on a loud wheel of thought. For a
time it seemed to be sweeping him through deep gulfs of darkness. His sensations were too swift
and swarming to be disentangled. He had an almost physical sense of struggling for air, of
battling helplessly with material obstructions, as though the russet covert through which he
trudged were the heart of a maleficent jungle...

Snatches of his companion's talk drifted to him intermittently through the confusion of his
thoughts. He caught eager self-revealing phrases, and understood that Owen was saying things
about himself, perhaps hinting indirectly at the hopes for which Darrow had been prepared by
Anna's confidences. He had already become aware that the lad liked him, and had meant to take
the first opportunity of showing that he reciprocated the feeling. But the effort of fixing
his attention on Owen's words was so great that it left no power for more than the briefest
and most inexpressive replies.

Young Leath, it appeared, felt that he had reached a turning-point in his career, a height
from which he could impartially survey his past progress and projected endeavour. At one time
he had had musical and literary yearnings, visions of desultory artistic indulgence; but these
had of late been superseded by the resolute determination to plunge into practical life.

"I don't want, you see," Darrow heard him explaining, "to drift into what my grandmother, poor
dear, is trying to make of me: an adjunct of Givre. I don't want--hang it all!--to slip into
collecting sensations as my father collected snuff-boxes. I want Effie to have Givre--it's
my grandmother's, you know, to do as she likes with; and I've understood lately that if it
belonged to me it would gradually gobble me up. I want to get out of it, into a life that's
big and ugly and struggling. If I can extract beauty out of THAT, so much the better: that'll
prove my vocation. But I want to MAKE beauty, not be drowned in the ready-made, like a bee
in a pot of honey."

Darrow knew that he was being appealed to for corroboration of these views and for encouragement
in the course to which they pointed. To his own ears his answers sounded now curt, now irrelevant:
at one moment he seemed chillingly indifferent, at another he heard himself launching out on
a flood of hazy discursiveness. He dared not look at Owen, for fear of detecting the lad's
surprise at these senseless transitions. And through the confusion of his inward struggles
and outward loquacity he heard the ceaseless trip-hammer beat of the question: "What in God's
name shall I do?"...

To get back to the house before Anna's return seemed his most pressing necessity. He did not
clearly know why: he simply felt that he ought to be there. At one moment it occurred to him
that Miss Viner might want to speak to him alone--and again, in the same flash, that it would
probably be the last thing she would want...At any rate, he felt he ought to try to speak to
HER; or at least be prepared to do so, if the chance should occur...

Finally, toward four, he told his companion that he had some letters on his mind and must get
back to the house and despatch them before the ladies returned. He left Owen with the beater
and walked on to the edge of the covert. At the park gates he struck obliquely through the
trees, following a grass avenue at the end of which he had caught a glimpse of the roof of
the chapel. A grey haze had blotted out the sun and the still air clung about him tepidly.
At length the house-front raised before him its expanse of damp-silvered brick, and he was
struck afresh by the high decorum of its calm lines and soberly massed surfaces. It made him
feel, in the turbid coil of his fears and passions, like a muddy tramp forcing his way into
some pure sequestered shrine...

By and bye, he knew, he should have to think the complex horror out, slowly, systematically,
bit by bit; but for the moment it was whirling him about so fast that he could just clutch
at its sharp spikes and be tossed off again. Only one definite immediate fact stuck in his
quivering grasp. He must give the girl every chance--must hold himself passive till she had
taken them...

In the court Effie ran up to him with her leaping terrier.

"I was coming out to meet you--you and Owen. Miss Viner was coming, too, and then she couldn't
because she's got such a headache. I'm afraid I gave it to her because I did my division so
disgracefully. It's too bad, isn't it? But won't you walk back with me? Nurse won't mind the
least bit; she'd so much rather go in to tea."

Darrow excused himself laughingly, on the plea that he had letters to write, which was much
worse than having a headache, and not infrequently resulted in one.

"Oh, then you can go and write them in Owen's study. That's where gentlemen always write their
letters."

She flew on with her dog and Darrow pursued his way to the house. Effie's suggestion struck
him as useful. He had pictured himself as vaguely drifting about the drawing-rooms, and had
perceived the difficulty of Miss Viner's having to seek him there; but the study, a small room
on the right of the hall, was in easy sight from the staircase, and so situated that there
would be nothing marked in his being found there in talk with her.

He went in, leaving the door open, and sat down at the writing-table. The room was a friendly
heterogeneous place, the one repository, in the well-ordered and amply-servanted house, of
all its unclassified odds and ends: Effie's croquet-box and fishing rods, Owen's guns and golf-sticks
and racquets, his step-mother's flower-baskets and gardening implements, even Madame de Chantelle's
embroidery frame, and the back numbers of the Catholic Weekly. The early twilight had begun
to fall, and presently a slanting ray across the desk showed Darrow that a servant was coming
across the hall with a lamp. He pulled out a sheet of note-paper and began to write at random,
while the man, entering, put the lamp at his elbow and vaguely "straightened" the heap of newspapers
tossed on the divan. Then his steps died away and Darrow sat leaning his head on his locked hands.

Presently another step sounded on the stairs, wavered a moment and then moved past the threshold
of the study. Darrow got up and walked into the hall, which was still unlighted. In the dimness
he saw Sophy Viner standing by the hall door in her hat and jacket. She stopped at sight of
him, her hand on the door-bolt, and they stood for a second without speaking.

"Have you seen Effie?" she suddenly asked. "She went out to meet you."

"She DID meet me, just now, in the court. She's gone on to join her brother."

Darrow spoke as naturally as he could, but his voice sounded to his own ears like an amateur
actor's in a "light" part.

Miss Viner, without answering, drew back the bolt. He watched her in silence as the door swung
open; then he said: "She has her nurse with her. She won't be long."

She stood irresolute, and he added: "I was writing in there--won't you come and have a little
talk? Every one's out."

The last words struck him as not well-chosen, but there was no time to choose. She paused a
second longer and then crossed the threshold of the study. At luncheon she had sat with her
back to the window, and beyond noting that she had grown a little thinner, and had less colour
and vivacity, he had seen no change in her; but now, as the lamplight fell on her face, its
whiteness startled him.

"Poor thing...poor thing...what in heaven's name can she suppose?" he wondered.

"Do sit down--I want to talk to you," he said and pushed a chair toward her.

She did not seem to see it, or, if she did, she deliberately chose another seat. He came back
to his own chair and leaned his elbows on the blotter. She faced him from the farther side
of the table.

"You promised to let me hear from you now and then," he began awkwardly, and with a sharp sense
of his awkwardness.

A faint smile made her face more tragic. "Did I? There was nothing to tell. I've had no history--like
the happy countries..."

He waited a moment before asking: "You ARE happy here?"

"I WAS," she said with a faint emphasis.

"Why do you say 'was'? You're surely not thinking of going? There can't be kinder people anywhere."
Darrow hardly knew what he was saying; but her answer came to him with deadly definiteness.

"I suppose it depends on you whether I go or stay."

"On me?" He stared at her across Owen's scattered papers. "Good God! What can you think of
me, to say that?"

The mockery of the question flashed back at him from her wretched face. She stood up, wandered
away, and leaned an instant in the darkening window-frame. From there she turned to fling back
at him: "Don't imagine I'm the least bit sorry for anything!"

He steadied his elbows on the table and hid his face in his hands. It was harder, oh, damnably
harder, than he had expected! Arguments, expedients, palliations, evasions, all seemed to be
slipping away from him: he was left face to face with the mere graceless fact of his inferiority.
He lifted his head to ask at random: "You've been here, then, ever since?"

"Since June; yes. It turned out that the Farlows were hunting for me--all the while--for this."

She stood facing him, her back to the window, evidently impatient to be gone, yet with something
still to say, or that she expected to hear him say. The sense of her expectancy benumbed him.
What in heaven's name could he say to her that was not an offense or a mockery?

"Your idea of the theatre--you gave that up at once, then?"

"Oh, the theatre!" She gave a little laugh. "I couldn't wait for the theatre. I had to take
the first thing that offered; I took this."

He pushed on haltingly: "I'm glad--extremely glad--you're happy here...I'd counted on your
letting me know if there was anything I could do...The theatre, now--if you still regret it--if
you're not contented here...I know people in that line in London--I'm certain I can manage
it for you when I get back----"

She moved up to the table and leaned over it to ask, in a voice that was hardly above a whisper:
"Then you DO want me to leave? Is that it?"

He dropped his arms with a groan. "Good heavens! How can you think such things? At the time,
you know, I begged you to let me do what I could, but you wouldn't hear of it...and ever since
I've been wanting to be of use--to do something, anything, to help you..."

She heard him through, motionless, without a quiver of the clasped hands she rested on the
edge of the table.

"If you want to help me, then--you can help me to stay here," she brought out with low-toned
intensity.

Through the stillness of the pause which followed, the bray of a motor-horn sounded far down
the drive. Instantly she turned, with a last white look at him, and fled from the room and
up the stairs. He stood motionless, benumbed by the shock of her last words. She was afraid,
then--afraid of him--sick with fear of him! The discovery beat him down to a lower depth...

The motor-horn sounded again, close at hand, and he turned and went up to his room. His letter-writing
was a sufficient pretext for not immediately joining the party about the tea-table, and he
wanted to be alone and try to put a little order into his tumultuous thinking.

Upstairs, the room held out the intimate welcome of its lamp and fire. Everything in it exhaled
the same sense of peace and stability which, two evenings before, had lulled him to complacent
meditation. His armchair again invited him from the hearth, but he was too agitated to sit
still, and with sunk head and hands clasped behind his back he began to wander up and down
the room.

His five minutes with Sophy Viner had flashed strange lights into the shadowy corners of his
consciousness. The girl's absolute candour, her hard ardent honesty, was for the moment the
vividest point in his thoughts. He wondered anew, as he had wondered before, at the way in
which the harsh discipline of life had stripped her of false sentiment without laying the least
touch on her pride. When they had parted, five months before, she had quietly but decidedly
rejected all his offers of help, even to the suggestion of his trying to further her theatrical
aims: she had made it clear that she wished their brief alliance to leave no trace on their
lives save that of its own smiling memory. But now that they were unexpectedly confronted in
a situation which seemed, to her terrified fancy, to put her at his mercy, her first impulse
was to defend her right to the place she had won, and to learn as quickly as possible if he
meant to dispute it. While he had pictured her as shrinking away from him in a tremor of self-effacement
she had watched his movements, made sure of her opportunity, and come straight down to "have
it out" with him. He was so struck by the frankness and energy of the proceeding that for a
moment he lost sight of the view of his own character implied in it.

"Poor thing...poor thing!" he could only go on saying; and with the repetition of the words
the picture of himself as she must see him pitiably took shape again.

He understood then, for the first time, how vague, in comparison with hers, had been his own
vision of the part he had played in the brief episode of their relation. The incident had left
in him a sense of exasperation and self-contempt, but that, as he now perceived, was chiefly,
if not altogether, as it bore on his preconceived ideal of his attitude toward another woman.
He had fallen below his own standard of sentimental loyalty, and if he thought of Sophy Viner
it was mainly as the chance instrument of his lapse. These considerations were not agreeable
to his pride, but they were forced on him by the example of her valiant common-sense. If he
had cut a sorry figure in the business, he owed it to her not to close his eyes to the fact
any longer...

But when he opened them, what did he see? The situation, detestable at best, would yet have
been relatively simple if protecting Sophy Viner had been the only duty involved in it. The
fact that that duty was paramount did not do away with the contingent obligations. It was Darrow's
instinct, in difficult moments, to go straight to the bottom of the difficulty; but he had
never before had to take so dark a dive as this, and for the minute he shivered on the brink...Well,
his first duty, at any rate, was to the girl: he must let her see that he meant to fulfill
it to the last jot, and then try to find out how to square the fulfillment with the other problems
already in his path...

XVI

In the oak room he found Mrs. Leath, her mother-in-law and Effie. The group, as he came toward
it down the long drawing-rooms, composed itself prettily about the tea-table. The lamps and
the fire crossed their gleams on silver and porcelain, on the bright haze of Effie's hair and
on the whiteness of Anna's forehead, as she leaned back in her chair behind the tea-urn.

She did not move at Darrow's approach, but lifted to him a deep gaze of peace and confidence.
The look seemed to throw about him the spell of a divine security: he felt the joy of a convalescent
suddenly waking to find the sunlight on his face.

Madame de Chantelle, across her knitting, discoursed of their afternoon's excursion, with occasional
pauses induced by the hypnotic effect of the fresh air; and Effie, kneeling, on the hearth,
softly but insistently sought to implant in her terrier's mind some notion of the relation
between a vertical attitude and sugar.

Darrow took a chair behind the little girl, so that he might look across at her mother. It
was almost a necessity for him, at the moment, to let his eyes rest on Anna's face, and to
meet, now and then, the proud shyness of her gaze.

Madame de Chantelle presently enquired what had become of Owen, and a moment later the window
behind her opened, and her grandson, gun in hand, came in from the terrace. As he stood there
in the lamp-light, with dead leaves and bits of bramble clinging to his mud-spattered clothes,
the scent of the night about him and its chill on his pale bright face, he really had the look
of a young faun strayed in from the forest.

Effie abandoned the terrier to fly to him. "Oh, Owen, where in the world have you been? I walked
miles and miles with Nurse and couldn't find you, and we met Jean and he said he didn't know
where you'd gone."

"Nobody knows where I go, or what I see when I get there--that's the beauty of it!" he laughed
back at her. "But if you're good," he added, "I'll tell you about it one of these days."

"Oh, now, Owen, now! I don't really believe I'll ever be much better than I am now."

"Let Owen have his tea first," her mother suggested; but the young man, declining the offer,
propped his gun against the wall, and, lighting a cigarette, began to pace up and down the
room in a way that reminded Darrow of his own caged wanderings. Effie pursued him with her
blandishments, and for a while he poured out to her a low-voiced stream of nonsense; then he
sat down beside his step-mother and leaned over to help himself to tea.

"Where's Miss Viner?" he asked, as Effie climbed up on him. "Why isn't she here to chain up
this ungovernable infant?"

"Poor Miss Viner has a headache. Effie says she went to her room as soon as lessons were over,
and sent word that she wouldn't be down for tea."

"Ah," said Owen, abruptly setting down his cup. He stood up, lit another cigarette, and wandered
away to the piano in the room beyond.

From the twilight where he sat a lonely music, borne on fantastic chords, floated to the group
about the tea-table. Under its influence Madame de Chantelle's meditative pauses increased
in length and frequency, and Effie stretched herself on the hearth, her drowsy head against
the dog. Presently her nurse appeared, and Anna rose at the same time. "Stop a minute in my
sitting-room on your way up," she paused to say to Darrow as she went.

A few hours earlier, her request would have brought him instantly to his feet. She had given
him, on the day of his arrival, an inviting glimpse of the spacious book-lined room above stairs
in which she had gathered together all the tokens of her personal tastes: the retreat in which,
as one might fancy, Anna Leath had hidden the restless ghost of Anna Summers; and the thought
of a talk with her there had been in his mind ever since. But now he sat motionless, as if
spell-bound by the play of Madame de Chantelle's needles and the pulsations of Owen's fitful music.

"She will want to ask me about the girl," he repeated to himself, with a fresh sense of the
insidious taint that embittered all his thoughts; the hand of the slender-columned clock on
the mantel-piece had spanned a half-hour before shame at his own indecision finally drew him
to his feet.

From her writing-table, where she sat over a pile of letters, Anna lifted her happy smile.
The impulse to press his lips to it made him come close and draw her upward. She threw her
head back, as if surprised at the abruptness of the gesture; then her face leaned to his with
the slow droop of a flower. He felt again the sweep of the secret tides, and all his fears
went down in them.

She sat down in the sofa-corner by the fire and he drew an armchair close to her. His gaze
roamed peacefully about the quiet room.

"It's just like you--it is you," he said, as his eyes came back to her.

"It's a good place to be alone in--I don't think I've ever before cared to talk with any one here."

"Let's be quiet, then: it's the best way of talking."

"Yes; but we must save it up till later. There are things I want to say to you now."

He leaned back in his chair. "Say them, then, and I'll listen."

"Oh, no. I want you to tell me about Miss Viner."

"About Miss Viner?" He summoned up a look of faint interrogation.

He thought she seemed surprised at his surprise. "It's important, naturally," she explained,
"that I should find out all I can about her before I leave."

"Important on Effie's account?"

"On Effie's account--of course."

"Of course...But you've every reason to be satisfied, haven't you?"

"Every apparent reason. We all like her. Effie's very fond of her, and she seems to have a
delightful influence on the child. But we know so little, after all--about her antecedents,
I mean, and her past history. That's why I want you to try and recall everything you heard
about her when you used to see her in London."

"Oh, on that score I'm afraid I sha'n't be of much use. As I told you, she was a mere shadow
in the background of the house I saw her in--and that was four or five years ago..."

"When she was with a Mrs. Murrett?"

"Yes; an appalling woman who runs a roaring dinner-factory that used now and then to catch
me in its wheels. I escaped from them long ago; but in my time there used to be half a dozen
fagged 'hands' to tend the machine, and Miss Viner was one of them. I'm glad she's out of it,
poor girl!" "Then you never really saw anything of her there?"

"I never had the chance. Mrs. Murrett discouraged any competition on the part of her subordinates."

"Especially such pretty ones, I suppose?" Darrow made no comment, and she continued: "And Mrs.
Murrett's own opinion--if she'd offered you one--probably wouldn't have been of much value?"

"Only in so far as her disapproval would, on general principles, have been a good mark for
Miss Viner. But surely," he went on after a pause, "you could have found out about her from
the people through whom you first heard of her?"

Anna smiled. "Oh, we heard of her through Adelaide Painter--;" and in reply to his glance of
interrogation she explained that the lady in question was a spinster of South Braintree, Massachusetts,
who, having come to Paris some thirty years earlier, to nurse a brother through an illness,
had ever since protestingly and provisionally camped there in a state of contemptuous protestation
oddly manifested by her never taking the slip-covers off her drawing-room chairs. Her long
residence on Gallic soil had not mitigated her hostility toward the creed and customs of the
race, but though she always referred to the Catholic Church as the Scarlet Woman and took the
darkest views of French private life, Madame de Chantelle placed great reliance on her judgment
and experience, and in every domestic crisis the irreducible Adelaide was immediately summoned
to Givre.

"It's all the odder because my mother-in-law, since her second marriage, has lived so much
in the country that she's practically lost sight of all her other American friends. Besides
which, you can see how completely she has identified herself with Monsieur de Chantelle's nationality
and adopted French habits and prejudices. Yet when anything goes wrong she always sends for
Adelaide Painter, who's more American than the Stars and Stripes, and might have left South
Braintree yesterday, if she hadn't, rather, brought it over with her in her trunk."

Darrow laughed. "Well, then, if South Braintree vouches for Miss Viner----"

"Oh, but only indirectly. When we had that odious adventure with Mademoiselle Grumeau, who'd
been so highly recommended by Monsieur de Chantelle's aunt, the Chanoinesse, Adelaide was of
course sent for, and she said at once: 'I'm not the least bit surprised. I've always told you
that what you wanted for Effie was a sweet American girl, and not one of these nasty foreigners.'
Unluckily she couldn't, at the moment, put her hand on a sweet American; but she presently
heard of Miss Viner through the Farlows, an excellent couple who live in the Quartier Latin
and write about French life for the American papers. I was only too thankful to find anyone
who was vouched for by decent people; and so far I've had no cause to regret my choice. But
I know, after all, very little about Miss Viner; and there are all kinds of reasons why I want,
as soon as possible, to find out more--to find out all I can."

"Since you've got to leave Effie I understand your feeling in that way. But is there, in such
a case, any recommendation worth half as much as your own direct experience?"

"No; and it's been so favourable that I was ready to accept it as conclusive. Only, naturally,
when I found you'd known her in London I was in hopes you'd give me some more specific reasons
for liking her as much as I do."

"I'm afraid I can give you nothing more specific than my general vague impression that she
seems very plucky and extremely nice."

"You don't, at any rate, know anything specific to the contrary?"

"To the contrary? How should I? I'm not conscious of ever having heard any one say two words
about her. I only infer that she must have pluck and character to have stuck it out so long
at Mrs. Murrett's."

"Yes, poor thing! She has pluck, certainly; and pride, too; which must have made it all the
harder." Anna rose to her feet. "You don't know how glad I am that your impression's on the
whole so good. I particularly wanted you to like her."

He drew her to him with a smile. "On that condition I'm prepared to love even Adelaide Painter."

"I almost hope you wont have the chance to--poor Adelaide! Her appearance here always coincides
with a catastrophe."

"Oh, then I must manage to meet her elsewhere." He held Anna closer, saying to himself, as
he smoothed back the hair from her forehead: "What does anything matter but just THIS?--Must
I go now?" he added aloud.

She answered absently: "It must be time to dress"; then she drew back a little and laid her
hands on his shoulders. "My love--oh, my dear love!" she said.

It came to him that they were the first words of endearment he had heard her speak, and their
rareness gave them a magic quality of reassurance, as though no danger could strike through
such a shield.

A knock on the door made them draw apart. Anna lifted her hand to her hair and Darrow stooped
to examine a photograph of Effie on the writing-table.

"Come in!" Anna said.

The door opened and Sophy Viner entered. Seeing Darrow, she drew back.

"Do come in, Miss Viner," Anna repeated, looking at her kindly.

The girl, a quick red in her cheeks, still hesitated on the threshold.

"I'm so sorry; but Effie has mislaid her Latin grammar, and I thought she might have left it
here. I need it to prepare for tomorrow's lesson."

"Is this it?" Darrow asked, picking up a book from the table.

"Oh, thank you!"

He held it out to her and she took it and moved to the door.

"Wait a minute, please, Miss Viner," Anna said; and as the girl turned back, she went on with
her quiet smile: "Effie told us you'd gone to your room with a headache. You mustn't sit up
over tomorrow's lessons if you don't feel well."

Sophy's blush deepened. "But you see I have to. Latin's one of my weak points, and there's
generally only one page of this book between me and Effie." She threw the words off with a
half-ironic smile. "Do excuse my disturbing you," she added.

"You didn't disturb me," Anna answered. Darrow perceived that she was looking intently at the
girl, as though struck by something tense and tremulous in her face, her voice, her whole mien
and attitude. "You DO look tired. You'd much better go straight to bed. Effie won't be sorry
to skip her Latin."

"Thank you--but I'm really all right," murmured Sophy Viner. Her glance, making a swift circuit
of the room, dwelt for an appreciable instant on the intimate propinquity of arm-chair and
sofa-corner; then she turned back to the door.

BOOK III

XVII

At dinner that evening Madame de Chantelle's slender monologue was thrown out over gulfs of
silence. Owen was still in the same state of moody abstraction as when Darrow had left him
at the piano; and even Anna's face, to her friend's vigilant eye, revealed not, perhaps, a
personal preoccupation, but a vague sense of impending disturbance.

She smiled, she bore a part in the talk, her eyes dwelt on Darrow's with their usual deep reliance;
but beneath the surface of her serenity his tense perceptions detected a hidden stir.

He was sufficiently self-possessed to tell himself that it was doubtless due to causes with
which he was not directly concerned. He knew the question of Owen's marriage was soon to be
raised, and the abrupt alteration in the young man's mood made it seem probable that he was
himself the centre of the atmospheric disturbance, For a moment it occurred to Darrow that
Anna might have employed her afternoon in preparing Madame de Chantelle for her grandson's
impending announcement; but a glance at the elder lady's unclouded brow showed that he must
seek elsewhere the clue to Owen's taciturnity and his step-mother's concern. Possibly Anna
had found reason to change her own attitude in the matter, and had made the change known to
Owen. But this, again, was negatived by the fact that, during the afternoon's shooting, young
Leath had been in a mood of almost extravagant expansiveness, and that, from the moment of
his late return to the house till just before dinner, there had been, to Darrow's certain knowledge,
no possibility of a private talk between himself and his step-mother.

This obscured, if it narrowed, the field of conjecture; and Darrow's gropings threw him back
on the conclusion that he was probably reading too much significance into the moods of a lad
he hardly knew, and who had been described to him as subject to sudden changes of humour. As
to Anna's fancied perturbation, it might simply be due to the fact that she had decided to
plead Owen's cause the next day, and had perhaps already had a glimpse of the difficulties
awaiting her. But Darrow knew that he was too deep in his own perplexities to judge the mental
state of those about him. It might be, after all, that the variations he felt in the currents
of communication were caused by his own inward tremor.

Such, at any rate, was the conclusion he had reached when, shortly after the two ladies left
the drawing-room, he bade Owen good-night and went up to his room. Ever since the rapid self-colloquy
which had followed on his first sight of Sophy Viner, he had known there were other questions
to be faced behind the one immediately confronting him. On the score of that one, at least,
his mind, if not easy, was relieved. He had done what was possible to reassure the girl, and
she had apparently recognized the sincerity of his intention. He had patched up as decent a
conclusion as he could to an incident that should obviously have had no sequel; but he had
known all along that with the securing of Miss Viner's peace of mind only a part of his obligation
was discharged, and that with that part his remaining duty was in conflict. It had been his
first business to convince the girl that their secret was safe with him; but it was far from
easy to square this with the equally urgent obligation of safe-guarding Anna's responsibility
toward her child. Darrow was not much afraid of accidental disclosures. Both he and Sophy Viner
had too much at stake not to be on their guard. The fear that beset him was of another kind,
and had a profounder source. He wanted to do all he could for the girl, but the fact of having
had to urge Anna to confide Effie to her was peculiarly repugnant to him. His own ideas about
Sophy Viner were too mixed and indeterminate for him not to feel the risk of such an experiment;
yet he found himself in the intolerable position of appearing to press it on the woman he desired
above all others to protect...

Till late in the night his thoughts revolved in a turmoil of indecision. His pride was humbled
by the discrepancy between what Sophy Viner had been to him and what he had thought of her.
This discrepancy, which at the time had seemed to simplify the incident, now turned out to
be its most galling complication. The bare truth, indeed, was that he had hardly thought of
her at all, either at the time or since, and that he was ashamed to base his judgement of her
on his meagre memory of their adventure.

The essential cheapness of the whole affair--as far as his share in it was concerned--came
home to him with humiliating distinctness. He would have liked to be able to feel that, at
the time at least, he had staked something more on it, and had somehow, in the sequel, had
a more palpable loss to show. But the plain fact was that he hadn't spent a penny on it; which
was no doubt the reason of the prodigious score it had since been rolling up. At any rate,
beat about the case as he would, it was clear that he owed it to Anna--and incidentally to
his own peace of mind--to find some way of securing Sophy Viner's future without leaving her
installed at Givre when he and his wife should depart for their new post.

The night brought no aid to the solving of this problem; but it gave him, at any rate, the
clear conviction that no time was to be lost. His first step must be to obtain from Miss Viner
the chance of another and calmer talk; and he resolved to seek it at the earliest hour.

He had gathered that Effie's lessons were preceded by an early scamper in the park, and conjecturing
that her governess might be with her he betook himself the next morning to the terrace, whence
he wandered on to the gardens and the walks beyond.

The atmosphere was still and pale. The muffled sunlight gleamed like gold tissue through grey
gauze, and the beech alleys tapered away to a blue haze blent of sky and forest. It was one
of those elusive days when the familiar forms of things seem about to dissolve in a prismatic
shimmer.

The stillness was presently broken by joyful barks, and Darrow, tracking the sound, overtook
Effie flying down one of the long alleys at the head of her pack. Beyond her he saw Miss Viner
seated near the stone-rimmed basin beside which he and Anna had paused on their first walk
to the river.

The girl, coming forward at his approach, returned his greeting almost gaily. His first glance
showed him that she had regained her composure, and the change in her appearance gave him the
measure of her fears. For the first time he saw in her again the sidelong grace that had charmed
his eyes in Paris; but he saw it now as in a painted picture.

"Shall we sit down a minute?" he asked, as Effie trotted off.

The girl looked away from him. "I'm afraid there's not much time; we must be back at lessons
at half-past nine."

"But it's barely ten minutes past. Let's at least walk a little way toward the river."

She glanced down the long walk ahead of them and then back in the direction of the house. "If
you like," she said in a low voice, with one of her quick fluctuations of colour; but instead
of taking the way he proposed she turned toward a narrow path which branched off obliquely
through the trees.

Darrow was struck, and vaguely troubled, by the change in her look and tone. There was in them
an undefinable appeal, whether for help or forbearance he could not tell. Then it occurred
to him that there might have been something misleading in his so pointedly seeking her, and
he felt a momentary constraint. To ease it he made an abrupt dash at the truth.

"I came out to look for you because our talk of yesterday was so unsatisfactory. I want to
hear more about you--about your plans and prospects. I've been wondering ever since why you've
so completely given up the theatre."

Her face instantly sharpened to distrust. "I had to live," she said in an off-hand tone.

"I understand perfectly that you should like it here--for a time." His glance strayed down
the gold-roofed windings ahead of them. "It's delightful: you couldn't be better placed. Only
I wonder a little at your having so completely given up any idea of a different future."

She waited for a moment before answering: "I suppose I'm less restless than I used to be."

"It's certainly natural that you should be less restless here than at Mrs. Murrett's; yet somehow
I don't seem to see you permanently given up to forming the young."

"What--exactly--DO you seem to see me permanently given up to? You know you warned me rather
emphatically against the theatre." She threw off the statement without impatience, as though
they were discussing together the fate of a third person in whom both were benevolently interested.
Darrow considered his reply. "If I did, it was because you so emphatically refused to let me
help you to a start."

She stopped short and faced him "And you think I may let you now?"

Darrow felt the blood in his cheek. He could not understand her attitude--if indeed she had
consciously taken one, and her changes of tone did not merely reflect the involuntary alternations
of her mood. It humbled him to perceive once more how little he had to guide him in his judgment
of her. He said to himself: "If I'd ever cared a straw for her I should know how to avoid hurting
her now"--and his insensibility struck him as no better than a vulgar obtuseness. But he had
a fixed purpose ahead and could only push on to it.

"I hope, at any rate, you'll listen to my reasons. There's been time, on both sides, to think
them over since----" He caught himself back and hung helpless on the "since": whatever words
he chose, he seemed to stumble among reminders of their past.

She walked on beside him, her eyes on the ground. "Then I'm to understand--definitely--that
you DO renew your offer?" she asked

"With all my heart! If you'll only let me----"

She raised a hand, as though to check him. "It's extremely friendly of you--I DO believe you
mean it as a friend--but I don't quite understand why, finding me, as you say, so well placed
here, you should show more anxiety about my future than at a time when I was actually, and
rather desperately, adrift."

"Oh, no, not more!"

"If you show any at all, it must, at any rate, be for different reasons.--In fact, it can only
be," she went on, with one of her disconcerting flashes of astuteness, "for one of two reasons;
either because you feel you ought to help me, or because, for some reason, you think you owe
it to Mrs. Leath to let her know what you know of me."

Darrow stood still in the path. Behind him he heard Effie's call, and at the child's voice
he saw Sophy turn her head with the alertness of one who is obscurely on the watch. The look
was so fugitive that he could not have said wherein it differed from her normal professional
air of having her pupil on her mind.

Effie sprang past them, and Darrow took up the girl's challenge.

"What you suggest about Mrs. Leath is hardly worth answering. As to my reasons for wanting
to help you, a good deal depends on the words one uses to define rather indefinite things.
It's true enough that I want to help you; but the wish isn't due to...to any past kindness
on your part, but simply to my own interest in you. Why not put it that our friendship gives
me the right to intervene for what I believe to be your benefit?"

She took a few hesitating steps and then paused again. Darrow noticed that she had grown pale
and that there were rings of shade about her eyes.

"You've known Mrs. Leath a long time?" she asked him suddenly.

He paused with a sense of approaching peril. "A long time--yes."

"She told me you were friends--great friends"

"Yes," he admitted, "we're great friends."

"Then you might naturally feel yourself justified in telling her that you don't think I'm the
right person for Effie." He uttered a sound of protest, but she disregarded it. "I don't say
you'd LIKE to do it. You wouldn't: you'd hate it. And the natural alternative would be to try
to persuade me that I'd be better off somewhere else than here. But supposing that failed,
and you saw I was determined to stay? THEN you might think it your duty to tell Mrs. Leath."

She laid the case before him with a cold lucidity. "I should, in your place, I believe," she
ended with a little laugh.

"I shouldn't feel justified in telling her, behind your back, if I thought you unsuited for
the place; but I should certainly feel justified," he rejoined after a pause, "in telling YOU
if I thought the place unsuited to you."

"And that's what you're trying to tell me now?"

"Yes; but not for the reasons you imagine."

"What, then, are your reasons, if you please?"

"I've already implied them in advising you not to give up all idea of the theatre. You're too
various, too gifted, too personal, to tie yourself down, at your age, to the dismal drudgery
of teaching."

"And is THAT what you've told Mrs. Leath?"

She rushed the question out at him as if she expected to trip him up over it. He was moved
by the simplicity of the stratagem.

"I've told her exactly nothing," he replied.

"And what--exactly--do you mean by 'nothing'? You and she were talking about me when I came
into her sitting-room yesterday."

Darrow felt his blood rise at the thrust.

"I've told her, simply, that I'd seen you once or twice at Mrs. Murrett's."

"And not that you've ever seen me since?"

"And not that I've ever seen you since..."

"And she believes you--she completely believes you?"

He uttered a protesting exclamation, and his flush reflected itself in the girl's cheek.

"Oh, I beg your pardon! I didn't mean to ask you that." She halted, and again cast a rapid
glance behind and ahead of her. Then she held out her hand. "Well, then, thank you--and let
me relieve your fears. I sha'n't be Effie's governess much longer."

At the announcement, Darrow tried to merge his look of relief into the expression of friendly
interest with which he grasped her hand. "You really do agree with me, then? And you'll give
me a chance to talk things over with you?"

She shook her head with a faint smile. "I'm not thinking of the stage. I've had another offer:
that's all."

The relief was hardly less great. After all, his personal responsibility ceased with her departure
from Givre.

"You'll tell me about that, then--won't you?"

Her smile flickered up. "Oh, you'll hear about it soon...I must catch Effie now and drag her
back to the blackboard."

She walked on for a few yards, and then paused again and confronted him. "I've been odious
to you--and not quite honest," she broke out suddenly.

"Not quite honest?" he repeated, caught in a fresh wave of wonder.

"I mean, in seeming not to trust you. It's come over me again as we talked that, at heart,
I've always KNOWN I could..."

Her colour rose in a bright wave, and her eyes clung to his for a swift instant of reminder
and appeal. For the same space of time the past surged up in him confusedly; then a veil dropped
between them.

"Here's Effie now!" she exclaimed.

He turned and saw the little girl trotting back to them, her hand in Owen Leath's. Even through
the stir of his subsiding excitement Darrow was at once aware of the change effected by the
young man's approach. For a moment Sophy Viner's cheeks burned redder; then they faded to the
paleness of white petals. She lost, however, nothing of the bright bravery which it was her
way to turn on the unexpected. Perhaps no one less familiar with her face than Darrow would
have discerned the tension of the smile she transferred from himself to Owen Leath, or have
remarked that her eyes had hardened from misty grey to a shining darkness. But her observer
was less struck by this than by the corresponding change in Owen Leath. The latter, when he
came in sight, had been laughing and talking unconcernedly with Effie; but as his eye fell
on Miss Viner his expression altered as suddenly as hers.

The change, for Darrow, was less definable; but, perhaps for that reason, it struck him as
more sharply significant. Only--just what did it signify? Owen, like Sophy Viner, had the kind
of face which seems less the stage on which emotions move than the very stuff they work in.
In moments of excitement his odd irregular features seemed to grow fluid, to unmake and remake
themselves like the shadows of clouds on a stream. Darrow, through the rapid flight of the
shadows, could not seize on any specific indication of feeling: he merely perceived that the
young man was unaccountably surprised at finding him with Miss Viner, and that the extent of
his surprise might cover all manner of implications.

Darrow's first idea was that Owen, if he suspected that the conversation was not the result
of an accidental encounter, might wonder at his step-mother's suitor being engaged, at such
an hour, in private talk with her little girl's governess. The thought was so disturbing that,
as the three turned back to the house, he was on the point of saying to Owen: "I came out to
look for your mother." But, in the contingency he feared, even so simple a phrase might seem
like an awkward attempt at explanation; and he walked on in silence at Miss Viner's side. Presently
he was struck by the fact that Owen Leath and the girl were silent also; and this gave a new
turn to his thoughts. Silence may be as variously shaded as speech; and that which enfolded
Darrow and his two companions seemed to his watchful perceptions to be quivering with cross-threads
of communication. At first he was aware only of those that centred in his own troubled consciousness;
then it occurred to him that an equal activity of intercourse was going on outside of it. Something
was in fact passing mutely and rapidly between young Leath and Sophy Viner; but what it was,
and whither it tended, Darrow, when they reached the house, was but just beginning to divine...

XVIII

Anna Leath, from the terrace, watched the return of the little group.

She looked down on them, as they advanced across the garden, from the serene height of her
unassailable happiness. There they were, coming toward her in the mild morning light, her child,
her step-son, her promised husband: the three beings who filled her life. She smiled a little
at the happy picture they presented, Effie's gambols encircling it in a moving frame within
which the two men came slowly forward in the silence of friendly understanding. It seemed part
of the deep intimacy of the scene that they should not be talking to each other, and it did
not till afterward strike her as odd that neither of them apparently felt it necessary to address
a word to Sophy Viner.

Anna herself, at the moment, was floating in the mid-current of felicity, on a tide so bright
and buoyant that she seemed to be one with its warm waves. The first rush of bliss had stunned
and dazzled her; but now that, each morning, she woke to the calm certainty of its recurrence,
she was growing used to the sense of security it gave.

"I feel as if I could trust my happiness to carry me; as if it had grown out of me like wings."
So she phrased it to Darrow, as, later in the morning, they paced the garden-paths together.
His answering look gave her the same assurance of safety. The evening before he had seemed
preoccupied, and the shadow of his mood had faintly encroached on the great golden orb of their
blessedness; but now it was uneclipsed again, and hung above them high and bright as the sun
at noon.

Upstairs in her sitting-room, that afternoon, she was thinking of these things. The morning
mists had turned to rain, compelling the postponement of an excursion in which the whole party
were to have joined. Effie, with her governess, had been despatched in the motor to do some
shopping at Francheuil; and Anna had promised Darrow to join him, later in the afternoon, for
a quick walk in the rain.

He had gone to his room after luncheon to get some belated letters off his conscience; and
when he had left her she had continued to sit in the same place, her hands crossed on her knees,
her head slightly bent, in an attitude of brooding retrospection. As she looked back at her
past life, it seemed to her to have consisted of one ceaseless effort to pack into each hour
enough to fill out its slack folds; but now each moment was like a miser's bag stretched to
bursting with pure gold.

She was roused by the sound of Owen's step in the gallery outside her room. It paused at her
door and in answer to his knock she called out "Come in!"

As the door closed behind him she was struck by his look of pale excitement, and an impulse
of compunction made her say: "You've come to ask me why I haven't spoken to your grandmother!"
He sent about him a glance vaguely reminding her of the strange look with which Sophy Viner
had swept the room the night before; then his brilliant eyes came back to her.

"I've spoken to her myself," he said.

Anna started up, incredulous.

"You've spoken to her? When?"

"Just now. I left her to come here."

Anna's first feeling was one of annoyance. There was really something comically incongruous
in this boyish surrender to impulse on the part of a young man so eager to assume the responsibilities
of life. She looked at him with a faintly veiled amusement.

"You asked me to help you and I promised you I would. It was hardly worth while to work out
such an elaborate plan of action if you intended to take the matter out of my hands without
telling me."

"Oh, don't take that tone with me!" he broke out, almost angrily.

"That tone? What tone?" She stared at his quivering face. "I might," she pursued, still half-laughing,
"more properly make that request of YOU!"

Owen reddened and his vehemence suddenly subsided.

"I meant that I HAD to speak--that's all. You don't give me a chance to explain..."

She looked at him gently, wondering a little at her own impatience.

"Owen! Don't I always want to give you every chance? It's because I DO that I wanted to talk
to your grandmother first--that I was waiting and watching for the right moment..."

"The right moment? So was I. That's why I've spoken." His voice rose again and took the sharp
edge it had in moments of high pressure.

His step-mother turned away and seated herself in her sofa-corner. "Oh, my dear, it's not a
privilege to quarrel over! You've taken a load off my shoulders. Sit down and tell me all about
it."

He stood before her, irresolute. "I can't sit down," he said.

"Walk about, then. Only tell me: I'm impatient."

His immediate response was to throw himself into the armchair at her side, where he lounged
for a moment without speaking, his legs stretched out, his arms locked behind his thrown-back
head. Anna, her eyes on his face, waited quietly for him to speak.

"Well--of course it was just what one expected."

"She takes it so badly, you mean?"

"All the heavy batteries were brought up: my father, Givre, Monsieur de Chantelle, the throne
and the altar. Even my poor mother was dragged out of oblivion and armed with imaginary protests."

Anna sighed out her sympathy. "Well--you were prepared for all that?"

"I thought I was, till I began to hear her say it. Then it sounded so incredibly silly that
I told her so."

"Oh, Owen--Owen!"

"Yes: I know. I was a fool; but I couldn't help it."

"And you've mortally offended her, I suppose? That's exactly what I wanted to prevent." She
laid a hand on his shoulder. "You tiresome boy, not to wait and let me speak for you!"

He moved slightly away, so that her hand slipped from its place. "You don't understand," he
said, frowning.

"I don't see how I can, till you explain. If you thought the time had come to tell your grandmother,
why not have asked me to do it? I had my reasons for waiting; but if you'd told me to speak
I should have done so, naturally."

He evaded her appeal by a sudden turn. "What WERE your reasons for waiting?"

Anna did not immediately answer. Her step-son's eyes were on her face, and under his gaze she
felt a faint disquietude.

"I was feeling my way...I wanted to be absolutely sure..."

"Absolutely sure of what?"

She delayed again for a just perceptible instant. "Why, simply of OUR side of the case."

"But you told me you were, the other day, when we talked it over before they came back from Ouchy."

"Oh, my dear--if you think that, in such a complicated matter, every day, every hour, doesn't
more or less modify one's surest sureness!"

"That's just what I'm driving at. I want to know what has modified yours."

She made a slight gesture of impatience. "What does it matter, now the thing's done? I don't
know that I could give any clear reason..."

He got to his feet and stood looking down on her with a tormented brow. "But it's absolutely
necessary that you should."

At his tone her impatience flared up. "It's not necessary that I should give you any explanation
whatever, since you've taken the matter out of my hands. All I can say is that I was trying
to help you: that no other thought ever entered my mind." She paused a moment and then added:
"If you doubted it, you were right to do what you've done."

"Oh, I never doubted YOU!" he retorted, with a fugitive stress on the pronoun. His face had
cleared to its old look of trust. "Don't be offended if I've seemed to," he went on. "I can't
quite explain myself, either...it's all a kind of tangle, isn't it? That's why I thought I'd
better speak at once; or rather why I didn't think at all, but just suddenly blurted the thing
out----"

Anna gave him back his look of conciliation. "Well, the how and why don't much matter now.
The point is how to deal with your grandmother. You've not told me what she means to do."

"Oh, she means to send for Adelaide Painter."

The name drew a faint note of mirth from him and relaxed both their faces to a smile.

"Perhaps," Anna added, "it's really the best thing for us all."

Owen shrugged his shoulders. "It's too preposterous and humiliating. Dragging that woman into
our secrets----!"

"This could hardly be a secret much longer."

He had moved to the hearth, where he stood pushing about the small ornaments on the mantel-shelf;
but at her answer he turned back to her.

"You haven't, of course, spoken of it to any one?"

"No; but I intend to now."

She paused for his reply, and as it did not come she continued: "If Adelaide Painter's to be
told there's no possible reason why I shouldn't tell Mr. Darrow." Owen abruptly set down the
little statuette between his fingers. "None whatever: I want every one to know."

She smiled a little at his over-emphasis, and was about to meet it with a word of banter when
he continued, facing her: "You haven't, as yet, said a word to him?"

"I've told him nothing, except what the discussion of our own plans--his and mine--obliged
me to: that you were thinking of marrying, and that I wasn't willing to leave France till I'd
done what I could to see you through."

At her first words the colour had rushed to his forehead; but as she continued she saw his
face compose itself and his blood subside.

"You're a brick, my dear!" he exclaimed.

"You had my word, you know."

"Yes; yes--I know." His face had clouded again. "And that's all--positively all--you've ever
said to him?"

"Positively all. But why do you ask?"

He had a moment's embarrassed hesitation. "It was understood, wasn't it, that my grandmother
was to be the first to know?"

"Well--and so she has been, hasn't she, since you've told her?"

He turned back to his restless shifting of the knick-knacks.

"And you're sure that nothing you've said to Darrow could possibly have given him a hint----?"

"Nothing I've said to him--certainly."

He swung about on her. "Why do you put it in that way?"

"In what way?"

"Why--as if you thought some one else might have spoken..."

"Some one else? Who else?" She rose to her feet. "What on earth, my dear boy, can you be driving
at?"

"I'm trying to find out whether you think he knows anything definite."

"Why should I think so? Do YOU?"

"I don't know. I want to find out."

She laughed at his obstinate insistence. "To test my veracity, I suppose?" At the sound of
a step in the gallery she added: "Here he is--you can ask him yourself."

She met Darrow's knock with an invitation to enter, and he came into the room and paused between
herself and Owen. She was struck, as he stood there, by the contrast between his happy careless
good-looks and her step-son's frowning agitation.

Darrow met her eyes with a smile. "Am I too soon? Or is our walk given up?"

"No; I was just going to get ready." She continued to linger between the two, looking slowly
from one to the other. "But there's something we want to tell you first: Owen is engaged to
Miss Viner."

The sense of an indefinable interrogation in Owen's mind made her, as she spoke, fix her eyes
steadily on Darrow.

He had paused just opposite the window, so that, even in the rainy afternoon light, his face
was clearly open to her scrutiny. For a second, immense surprise was alone visible on it: so
visible that she half turned to her step-son, with a faint smile for his refuted suspicions.
Why, she wondered, should Owen have thought that Darrow had already guessed his secret, and
what, after all, could be so disturbing to him in this not improbable contingency? At any rate,
his doubt must have been dispelled: there was nothing feigned about Darrow's astonishment.
When her eyes turned back to him he was already crossing to Owen with outstretched hand, and
she had, through an unaccountable faint flutter of misgiving, a mere confused sense of their
exchanging the customary phrases. Her next perception was of Owen's tranquillized look, and
of his smiling return of Darrow's congratulatory grasp. She had the eerie feeling of having
been overswept by a shadow which there had been no cloud to cast...

A moment later Owen had left the room and she and Darrow were alone. He had turned away to
the window and stood staring out into the down-pour.

"You're surprised at Owen's news?" she asked.

"Yes: I am surprised," he answered.

"You hadn't thought of its being Miss Viner?"

"Why should I have thought of Miss Viner?"

"You see now why I wanted so much to find out what you knew about her." He made no comment,
and she pursued: "Now that you DO know it's she, if there's anything----"

He moved back into the room and went up to her. His face was serious, with a slight shade of
annoyance. "What on earth should there be? As I told you, I've never in my life heard any one
say two words about Miss Viner."

Anna made no answer and they continued to face each other without moving. For the moment she
had ceased to think about Sophy Viner and Owen: the only thought in her mind was that Darrow
was alone with her, close to her, and that, for the first time, their hands and lips had not met.

He glanced back doubtfully at the window. "It's pouring. Perhaps you'd rather not go out?"

She hesitated, as if waiting for him to urge her. "I suppose I'd better not. I ought to go
at once to my mother-in-law--Owen's just been telling her," she said.

"Ah." Darrow hazarded a smile. "That accounts for my having, on my way up, heard some one telephoning
for Miss Painter!"

At the allusion they laughed together, vaguely, and Anna moved toward the door. He held it
open for her and followed her out.

XIX

He left her at the door of Madame de Chantelle's sitting-room, and plunged out alone into the rain.

The wind flung about the stripped tree-tops of the avenue and dashed the stinging streams into
his face. He walked to the gate and then turned into the high-road and strode along in the
open, buffeted by slanting gusts. The evenly ridged fields were a blurred waste of mud, and
the russet coverts which he and Owen had shot through the day before shivered desolately against
a driving sky.

Darrow walked on and on, indifferent to the direction he was taking. His thoughts were tossing
like the tree-tops. Anna's announcement had not come to him as a complete surprise: that morning,
as he strolled back to the house with Owen Leath and Miss Viner, he had had a momentary intuition
of the truth. But it had been no more than an intuition, the merest faint cloud-puff of surmise;
and now it was an attested fact, darkening over the whole sky.

In respect of his own attitude, he saw at once that the discovery made no appreciable change.
If he had been bound to silence before, he was no less bound to it now; the only difference
lay in the fact that what he had just learned had rendered his bondage more intolerable. Hitherto
he had felt for Sophy Viner's defenseless state a sympathy profoundly tinged with compunction.
But now he was half-conscious of an obscure indignation against her. Superior as he had fancied
himself to ready-made judgments, he was aware of cherishing the common doubt as to the disinterestedness
of the woman who tries to rise above her past. No wonder she had been sick with fear on meeting
him! It was in his power to do her more harm than he had dreamed...

Assuredly he did not want to harm her; but he did desperately want to prevent her marrying
Owen Leath. He tried to get away from the feeling, to isolate and exteriorize it sufficiently
to see what motives it was made of; but it remained a mere blind motion of his blood, the instinctive
recoil from the thing that no amount of arguing can make "straight." His tramp, prolonged as
it was, carried him no nearer to enlightenment; and after trudging through two or three sallow
mud-stained villages he turned about and wearily made his way back to Givre. As he walked up
the black avenue, making for the lights that twinkled through its pitching branches, he had
a sudden realisation of his utter helplessness. He might think and combine as he would; but
there was nothing, absolutely nothing, that he could do...

He dropped his wet coat in the vestibule and began to mount the stairs to his room. But on
the landing he was overtaken by a sober-faced maid who, in tones discreetly lowered, begged
him to be so kind as to step, for a moment, into the Marquise's sitting-room. Somewhat disconcerted
by the summons, he followed its bearer to the door at which, a couple of hours earlier, he
had taken leave of Mrs. Leath. It opened to admit him to a large lamp-lit room which he immediately
perceived to be empty; and the fact gave him time to note, even through his disturbance of
mind, the interesting degree to which Madame de Chantelle's apartment "dated" and completed
her. Its looped and corded curtains, its purple satin upholstery, the Sevres jardinieres, the
rosewood fire-screen, the little velvet tables edged with lace and crowded with silver knick-knacks
and simpering miniatures, reconstituted an almost perfect setting for the blonde beauty of
the 'sixties. Darrow wondered that Fraser Leath's filial respect should have prevailed over
his aesthetic scruples to the extent of permitting such an anachronism among the eighteenth
century graces of Givre; but a moment's reflection made it clear that, to its late owner, the
attitude would have seemed exactly in the traditions of the place.

Madame de Chantelle's emergence from an inner room snatched Darrow from these irrelevant musings.
She was already beaded and bugled for the evening, and, save for a slight pinkness of the eye-lids,
her elaborate appearance revealed no mark of agitation; but Darrow noticed that, in recognition
of the solemnity of the occasion, she pinched a lace handkerchief between her thumb and forefinger.

She plunged at once into the centre of the difficulty, appealing to him, in the name of all
the Everards, to descend there with her to the rescue of her darling. She wasn't, she was sure,
addressing herself in vain to one whose person, whose "tone," whose traditions so brilliantly
declared his indebtedness to the principles she besought him to defend. Her own reception of
Darrow, the confidence she had at once accorded him, must have shown him that she had instinctively
felt their unanimity of sentiment on these fundamental questions. She had in fact recognized
in him the one person whom, without pain to her maternal piety, she could welcome as her son's
successor; and it was almost as to Owen's father that she now appealed to Darrow to aid in
rescuing the wretched boy.

"Don't think, please, that I'm casting the least reflection on Anna, or showing any want of
sympathy for her, when I say that I consider her partly responsible for what's happened. Anna
is 'modern'--I believe that's what it's called when you read unsettling books and admire hideous
pictures. Indeed," Madame de Chantelle continued, leaning confidentially forward, "I myself
have always more or less lived in that atmosphere: my son, you know, was very revolutionary.
Only he didn't, of course, apply his ideas: they were purely intellectual. That's what dear
Anna has always failed to understand. And I'm afraid she's created the same kind of confusion
in Owen's mind--led him to mix up things you read about with things you do...You know, of course,
that she sides with him in this wretched business?"

Developing at length upon this theme, she finally narrowed down to the point of Darrow's intervention.
"My grandson, Mr. Darrow, calls me illogical and uncharitable because my feelings toward Miss
Viner have changed since I've heard this news. Well! You've known her, it appears, for some
years: Anna tells me you used to see her when she was a companion, or secretary or something,
to a dreadfully vulgar Mrs. Murrett. And I ask you as a friend, I ask you as one of US, to
tell me if you think a girl who has had to knock about the world in that kind of position,
and at the orders of all kinds of people, is fitted to be Owen's wife I'm not implying anything
against her! I LIKED the girl, Mr. Darrow...But what's that got to do with it? I don't want
her to marry my grandson. If I'd been looking for a wife for Owen, I shouldn't have applied
to the Farlows to find me one. That's what Anna won't understand; and what you must help me
to make her see."

Darrow, to this appeal, could oppose only the repeated assurance of his inability to interfere.
He tried to make Madame de Chantelle see that the very position he hoped to take in the household
made his intervention the more hazardous. He brought up the usual arguments, and sounded the
expected note of sympathy; but Madame de Chantelle's alarm had dispelled her habitual imprecision,
and, though she had not many reasons to advance, her argument clung to its point like a frightened
sharp-clawed animal.

"Well, then," she summed up, in response to his repeated assertions that he saw no way of helping
her, "you can, at least, even if you won't say a word to the others, tell me frankly and fairly--and
quite between ourselves--your personal opinion of Miss Viner, since you've known her so much
longer than we have."

He protested that, if he had known her longer, he had known her much less well, and that he
had already, on this point, convinced Anna of his inability to pronounce an opinion.

Madame de Chantelle drew a deep sigh of intelligence. "Your opinion of Mrs. Murrett is enough!
I don't suppose you pretend to conceal THAT? And heaven knows what other unspeakable people
she's been mixed up with. The only friends she can produce are called Hoke...Don't try to reason
with me, Mr. Darrow. There are feelings that go deeper than facts...And I KNOW she thought
of studying for the stage..." Madame de Chantelle raised the corner of her lace handkerchief
to her eyes. "I'm old-fashioned--like my furniture," she murmured. "And I thought I could count
on you, Mr. Darrow..."

When Darrow, that night, regained his room, he reflected with a flash of irony that each time
he entered it he brought a fresh troop of perplexities to trouble its serene seclusion. Since
the day after his arrival, only forty-eight hours before, when he had set his window open to
the night, and his hopes had seemed as many as its stars, each evening had brought its new
problem and its renewed distress. But nothing, as yet, had approached the blank misery of mind
with which he now set himself to face the fresh questions confronting him.

Sophy Viner had not shown herself at dinner, so that he had had no glimpse of her in her new
character, and no means of divining the real nature of the tie between herself and Owen Leath.
One thing, however, was clear: whatever her real feelings were, and however much or little
she had at stake, if she had made up her mind to marry Owen she had more than enough skill
and tenacity to defeat any arts that poor Madame de Chantelle could oppose to her.

Darrow himself was in fact the only person who might possibly turn her from her purpose: Madame
de Chantelle, at haphazard, had hit on the surest means of saving Owen--if to prevent his marriage
were to save him! Darrow, on this point, did not pretend to any fixed opinion; one feeling
alone was clear and insistent in him: he did not mean, if he could help it, to let the marriage
take place.

How he was to prevent it he did not know: to his tormented imagination every issue seemed closed.
For a fantastic instant he was moved to follow Madame de Chantelle's suggestion and urge Anna
to withdraw her approval. If his reticence, his efforts to avoid the subject, had not escaped
her, she had doubtless set them down to the fact of his knowing more, and thinking less, of
Sophy Viner than he had been willing to admit; and he might take advantage of this to turn
her mind gradually from the project. Yet how do so without betraying his insincerity? If he
had had nothing to hide he could easily have said: "It's one thing to know nothing against
the girl, it's another to pretend that I think her a good match for Owen." But could he say
even so much without betraying more? It was not Anna's questions, or his answers to them, that
he feared, but what might cry aloud in the intervals between them. He understood now that ever
since Sophy Viner's arrival at Givre he had felt in Anna the lurking sense of something unexpressed,
and perhaps inexpressible, between the girl and himself...When at last he fell asleep he had
fatalistically committed his next step to the chances of the morrow.

The first that offered itself was an encounter with Mrs. Leath as he descended the stairs the
next morning. She had come down already hatted and shod for a dash to the park lodge, where
one of the gatekeeper's children had had an accident. In her compact dark dress she looked
more than usually straight and slim, and her face wore the pale glow it took on at any call
on her energy: a kind of warrior brightness that made her small head, with its strong chin
and close-bound hair, like that of an amazon in a frieze.

It was their first moment alone since she had left him, the afternoon before, at her mother-in-law's
door; and after a few words about the injured child their talk inevitably reverted to Owen.

Anna spoke with a smile of her "scene" with Madame de Chantelle, who belonged, poor dear, to
a generation when "scenes" (in the ladylike and lachrymal sense of the term) were the tribute
which sensibility was expected to pay to the unusual. Their conversation had been, in every
detail, so exactly what Anna had foreseen that it had clearly not made much impression on her;
but she was eager to know the result of Darrow's encounter with her mother-in-law.

"She told me she'd sent for you: she always 'sends for' people in emergencies. That again,
I suppose, is de l'epoque. And failing Adelaide Painter, who can't get here till this afternoon,
there was no one but poor you to turn to."

She put it all lightly, with a lightness that seemed to his tight-strung nerves slightly, undefinably
over-done. But he was so aware of his own tension that he wondered, the next moment, whether
anything would ever again seem to him quite usual and insignificant and in the common order
of things.

As they hastened on through the drizzle in which the storm of the night was weeping itself
out, Anna drew close under his umbrella, and at the pressure of her arm against his he recalled
his walk up the Dover pier with Sophy Viner. The memory gave him a startled vision of the inevitable
occasions of contact, confidence, familiarity, which his future relationship to the girl would
entail, and the countless chances of betrayal that every one of them involved.

"Do tell me just what you said," he heard Anna pleading; and with sudden resolution he affirmed:
"I quite understand your mother-in-law's feeling as she does."

The words, when uttered, seemed a good deal less significant than they had sounded to his inner
ear; and Anna replied without surprise: "Of course. It's inevitable that she should. But we
shall bring her round in time." Under the dripping dome she raised her face to his. "Don't
you remember what you said the day before yesterday? 'Together we can't fail to pull it off
for him!' I've told Owen that, so you're pledged and there's no going back."

The day before yesterday! Was it possible that, no longer ago, life had seemed a sufficiently
simple business for a sane man to hazard such assurances?

"Anna," he questioned her abruptly, "why are you so anxious for this marriage?"

She stopped short to face him. "Why? But surely I've explained to you--or rather I've hardly
had to, you seemed so in sympathy with my reasons!"

"I didn't know, then, who it was that Owen wanted to marry."

The words were out with a spring and he felt a clearer air in his brain. But her logic hemmed
him in.

"You knew yesterday; and you assured me then that you hadn't a word to say----"

"Against Miss Viner?" The name, once uttered, sounded on and on in his ears. "Of course not.
But that doesn't necessarily imply that I think her a good match for Owen."

Anna made no immediate answer. When she spoke it was to question: "Why don't you think her
a good match for Owen?"

"Well--Madame de Chantelle's reasons seem to me not quite as negligible as you think."

"You mean the fact that she's been Mrs. Murrett's secretary, and that the people who employed
her before were called Hoke? For, as far as Owen and I can make out, these are the gravest
charges against her."

"Still, one can understand that the match is not what Madame de Chantelle had dreamed of."

"Oh, perfectly--if that's all you mean." The lodge was in sight, and she hastened her step.
He strode on beside her in silence, but at the gate she checked him with the question: "Is
it really all you mean?"

"Of course," he heard himself declare.

"Oh, then I think I shall convince you--even if I can't, like Madame de Chantelle, summon all
the Everards to my aid!" She lifted to him the look of happy laughter that sometimes brushed
her with a gleam of spring.

Darrow watched her hasten along the path between the dripping chrysanthemums and enter the
lodge. After she had gone in he paced up and down outside in the drizzle, waiting to learn
if she had any message to send back to the house; and after the lapse of a few minutes she
came out again.

The child, she said, was badly, though not dangerously, hurt, and the village doctor, who was
already on hand, had asked that the surgeon, already summoned from Francheuil, should be told
to bring with him certain needful appliances. Owen had started by motor to fetch the surgeon,
but there was still time to communicate with the latter by telephone. The doctor furthermore
begged for an immediate provision of such bandages and disinfectants as Givre itself could
furnish, and Anna bade Darrow address himself to Miss Viner, who would know where to find the
necessary things, and would direct one of the servants to bicycle with them to the lodge.

Darrow, as he hurried off on this errand, had at once perceived the opportunity it offered
of a word with Sophy Viner. What that word was to be he did not know; but now, if ever, was
the moment to make it urgent and conclusive. It was unlikely that he would again have such
a chance of unobserved talk with her.

He had supposed he should find her with her pupil in the school-room; but he learned from a
servant that Effie had gone to Francheuil with her step-brother, and that Miss Viner was still
in her room. Darrow sent her word that he was the bearer of a message from the lodge, and a
moment later he heard her coming down the stairs.

XX

For a second, as she approached him, the quick tremor of her glance showed her all intent on
the same thought as himself. He transmitted his instructions with mechanical precision, and
she answered in the same tone, repeating his words with the intensity of attention of a child
not quite sure of understanding. Then she disappeared up the stairs.

Darrow lingered on in the hall, not knowing if she meant to return, yet inwardly sure she would.
At length he saw her coming down in her hat and jacket. The rain still streaked the window
panes, and, in order to say something, he said: "You're not going to the lodge yourself?"

"I've sent one of the men ahead with the things; but I thought Mrs. Leath might need me."

"She didn't ask for you," he returned, wondering how he could detain her; but she answered
decidedly: "I'd better go."

He held open the door, picked up his umbrella and followed her out. As they went down the steps
she glanced back at him. "You've forgotten your mackintosh."

"I sha'n't need it."

She had no umbrella, and he opened his and held it out to her. She rejected it with a murmur
of thanks and walked on through the thin drizzle, and he kept the umbrella over his own head,
without offering to shelter her.

Rapidly and in silence they crossed the court and began to walk down the avenue. They had traversed
a third of its length before Darrow said abruptly: "Wouldn't it have been fairer, when we talked
together yesterday, to tell me what I've just heard from Mrs. Leath?"

"Fairer----?" She stopped short with a startled look.

"If I'd known that your future was already settled I should have spared you my gratuitous suggestions."

She walked on, more slowly, for a yard or two. "I couldn't speak yesterday. I meant to have
told you today."

"Oh, I'm not reproaching you for your lack of confidence. Only, if you HAD told me, I should
have been more sure of your really meaning what you said to me yesterday."

She did not ask him to what he referred, and he saw that her parting words to him lived as
vividly in her memory as in his.

"Is it so important that you should be sure?" she finally questioned.

"Not to you, naturally," he returned with involuntary asperity. It was incredible, yet it was
a fact, that for the moment his immediate purpose in seeking to speak to her was lost under
a rush of resentment at counting for so little in her fate. Of what stuff, then, was his feeling
for her made? A few hours earlier she had touched his thoughts as little as his senses; but
now he felt old sleeping instincts stir in him... A rush of rain dashed against his face, and,
catching Sophy's hat, strained it back from her loosened hair. She put her hands to her head
with a familiar gesture...He came closer and held his umbrella over her...

At the lodge he waited while she went in. The rain continued to stream down on him and he shivered
in the dampness and stamped his feet on the flags. It seemed to him that a long time elapsed
before the door opened and she reappeared. He glanced into the house for a glimpse of Anna,
but obtained none; yet the mere sense of her nearness had completely altered his mood.

The child, Sophy told him, was doing well; but Mrs. Leath had decided to wait till the surgeon
came. Darrow, as they turned away, looked through the gates, and saw the doctor's old-fashioned
carriage by the roadside.

"Let me tell the doctor's boy to drive you back," he suggested; but Sophy answered: "No; I'll
walk," and he moved on toward the house at her side. She expressed no surprise at his not remaining
at the lodge, and again they walked on in silence through the rain. She had accepted the shelter
of his umbrella, but she kept herself at such a carefully measured distance that even the slight
swaying movements produced by their quick pace did not once bring her arm in touch with his;
and, noticing this, he perceived that every drop of her blood must be alive to his nearness.

"What I meant just now," he began, "was that you ought to have been sure of my good wishes."

She seemed to weigh the words. "Sure enough for what?"

"To trust me a little farther than you did."

"I've told you that yesterday I wasn't free to speak."

"Well, since you are now, may I say a word to you?"

She paused perceptibly, and when she spoke it was in so low a tone that he had to bend his
head to catch her answer. "I can't think what you can have to say."

"It's not easy to say here, at any rate. And indoors I sha'n't know where to say it." He glanced
about him in the rain. "Let's walk over to the spring-house for a minute."

To the right of the drive, under a clump of trees, a little stucco pavilion crowned by a balustrade
rose on arches of mouldering brick over a flight of steps that led down to a spring. Other
steps curved up to a door above. Darrow mounted these, and opening the door entered a small
circular room hung with loosened strips of painted paper whereon spectrally faded Mandarins
executed elongated gestures. Some black and gold chairs with straw seats and an unsteady table
of cracked lacquer stood on the floor of red-glazed tile.

Sophy had followed him without comment. He closed the door after her, and she stood motionless,
as though waiting for him to speak.

"Now we can talk quietly," he said, looking at her with a smile into which he tried to put
an intention of the frankest friendliness.

She merely repeated: "I can't think what you can have to say."

Her voice had lost the note of half-wistful confidence on which their talk of the previous
day had closed, and she looked at him with a kind of pale hostility. Her tone made it evident
that his task would be difficult, but it did not shake his resolve to go on. He sat down, and
mechanically she followed his example. The table was between them and she rested her arms on
its cracked edge and her chin on her interlocked hands. He looked at her and she gave him back
his look.

"Have you nothing to say to ME?" he asked at length.

A faint smile lifted, in the remembered way, the left corner of her narrowed lips.

"About my marriage?"

"About your marriage."

She continued to consider him between half-drawn lids. "What can I say that Mrs. Leath has
not already told you?"

"Mrs. Leath has told me nothing whatever but the fact--and her pleasure in it."

"Well; aren't those the two essential points?"

"The essential points to YOU? I should have thought----"

"Oh, to YOU, I meant," she put in keenly.

He flushed at the retort, but steadied himself and rejoined: "The essential point to me is,
of course, that you should be doing what's really best for you."

She sat silent, with lowered lashes. At length she stretched out her arm and took up from the
table a little threadbare Chinese hand-screen. She turned its ebony stem once or twice between
her fingers, and as she did so Darrow was whimsically struck by the way in which their evanescent
slight romance was symbolized by the fading lines on the frail silk.

"Do you think my engagement to Mr. Leath not really best for me?" she asked at length.

Darrow, before answering, waited long enough to get his words into the tersest shape--not without
a sense, as he did so, of his likeness to the surgeon deliberately poising his lancet for a
clean incision. "I'm not sure," he replied, "of its being the best thing for either of you."

She took the stroke steadily, but a faint red swept her face like the reflection of a blush.
She continued to keep her lowered eyes on the screen.

"From whose point of view do you speak?"

"Naturally, that of the persons most concerned."

"From Owen's, then, of course? You don't think me a good match for him?"

"From yours, first of all. I don't think him a good match for you."

He brought the answer out abruptly, his eyes on her face. It had grown extremely pale, but
as the meaning of his words shaped itself in her mind he saw a curious inner light dawn through
her set look. She lifted her lids just far enough for a veiled glance at him, and a smile slipped
through them to her trembling lips. For a moment the change merely bewildered him; then it
pulled him up with a sharp jerk of apprehension.

"I don't think him a good match for you," he stammered, groping for the lost thread of his words.

She threw a vague look about the chilly rain-dimmed room. "And you've brought me here to tell
me why?"

The question roused him to the sense that their minutes were numbered, and that if he did not
immediately get to his point there might be no other chance of making it.

"My chief reason is that I believe he's too young and inexperienced to give you the kind of
support you need."

At his words her face changed again, freezing to a tragic coldness. She stared straight ahead
of her, perceptibly struggling with the tremor of her muscles; and when she had controlled
it she flung out a pale-lipped pleasantry. "But you see I've always had to support myself!"

"He's a boy," Darrow pushed on, "a charming, wonderful boy; but with no more notion than a
boy how to deal with the inevitable daily problems...the trivial stupid unimportant things
that life is chiefly made up of." "I'll deal with them for him," she rejoined.

"They'll be more than ordinarily difficult."

She shot a challenging glance at him. "You must have some special reason for saying so."

"Only my clear perception of the facts."

"What facts do you mean?"

Darrow hesitated. "You must know better than I," he returned at length, "that the way won't
be made easy to you."

"Mrs. Leath, at any rate, has made it so."

"Madame de Chantelle will not."

"How do YOU know that?" she flung back.

He paused again, not sure how far it was prudent to reveal himself in the confidence of the
household. Then, to avoid involving Anna, he answered: "Madame de Chantelle sent for me yesterday."

"Sent for you--to talk to you about me?" The colour rose to her forehead and her eyes burned
black under lowered brows. "By what right, I should like to know? What have you to do with
me, or with anything in the world that concerns me?"

Darrow instantly perceived what dread suspicion again possessed her, and the sense that it
was not wholly unjustified caused him a passing pang of shame. But it did not turn him from
his purpose.

"I'm an old friend of Mrs. Leath's. It's not unnatural that Madame de Chantelle should talk to me."

She dropped the screen on the table and stood up, turning on him the same small mask of wrath
and scorn which had glared at him, in Paris, when he had confessed to his suppression of her
letter. She walked away a step or two and then came back.

"May I ask what Madame de Chantelle said to you?"

"She made it clear that she should not encourage the marriage."

"And what was her object in making that clear to YOU?"

Darrow hesitated. "I suppose she thought----"

"That she could persuade you to turn Mrs. Leath against me?"

He was silent, and she pressed him: "Was that it?" "That was it."

"But if you don't--if you keep your promise----"

"My promise?"

"To say nothing...nothing whatever..." Her strained look threw a haggard light along the pause.

As she spoke, the whole odiousness of the scene rushed over him. "Of course I shall say nothing...you
know that..." He leaned to her and laid his hand on hers. "You know I wouldn't for the world..."

She drew back and hid her face with a sob. Then she sank again into her seat, stretched her
arms across the table and laid her face upon them. He sat still, overwhelmed with compunction.
After a long interval, in which he had painfully measured the seconds by her hard-drawn breathing,
she looked up at him with a face washed clear of bitterness.

"Don't suppose I don't know what you must have thought of me!"

The cry struck him down to a lower depth of self-abasement. "My poor child," he felt like answering,
"the shame of it is that I've never thought of you at all!" But he could only uselessly repeat:
"I'll do anything I can to help you."

She sat silent, drumming the table with her hand. He saw that her doubt of him was allayed,
and the perception made him more ashamed, as if her trust had first revealed to him how near
he had come to not deserving it. Suddenly she began to speak.

"You think, then, I've no right to marry him?"

"No right? God forbid! I only meant----"

"That you'd rather I didn't marry any friend of yours." She brought it out deliberately, not
as a question, but as a mere dispassionate statement of fact.

Darrow in turn stood up and wandered away helplessly to the window. He stood staring out through
its small discoloured panes at the dim brown distances; then he moved back to the table.

"I'll tell you exactly what I meant. You'll be wretched if you marry a man you're not in love
with."

He knew the risk of misapprehension that he ran, but he estimated his chances of success as
precisely in proportion to his peril. If certain signs meant what he thought they did, he might
yet--at what cost he would not stop to think--make his past pay for his future.

The girl, at his words, had lifted her head with a movement of surprise. Her eyes slowly reached
his face and rested there in a gaze of deep interrogation. He held the look for a moment; then
his own eyes dropped and he waited.

At length she began to speak. "You're mistaken--you're quite mistaken."

He waited a moment longer. "Mistaken----?"

"In thinking what you think. I'm as happy as if I deserved it!" she suddenly proclaimed with
a laugh.

She stood up and moved toward the door. "NOW are you satisfied?" she asked, turning her vividest
face to him from the threshold.

XXI

Down the avenue there came to them, with the opening of the door, the voice of Owen's motor.
It was the signal which had interrupted their first talk, and again, instinctively, they drew
apart at the sound. Without a word Darrow turned back into the room, while Sophy Viner went
down the steps and walked back alone toward the court.

At luncheon the presence of the surgeon, and the non-appearance of Madame de Chantelle--who
had excused herself on the plea of a headache--combined to shift the conversational centre
of gravity; and Darrow, under shelter of the necessarily impersonal talk, had time to adjust
his disguise and to perceive that the others were engaged in the same re-arrangement. It was
the first time that he had seen young Leath and Sophy Viner together since he had learned of
their engagement; but neither revealed more emotion than befitted the occasion. It was evident
that Owen was deeply under the girl's charm, and that at the least sign from her his bliss
would have broken bounds; but her reticence was justified by the tacitly recognized fact of
Madame de Chantelle's disapproval. This also visibly weighed on Anna's mind, making her manner
to Sophy, if no less kind, yet a trifle more constrained than if the moment of final understanding
had been reached. So Darrow interpreted the tension perceptible under the fluent exchange of
commonplaces in which he was diligently sharing. But he was more and more aware of his inability
to test the moral atmosphere about him: he was like a man in fever testing another's temperature
by the touch.

After luncheon Anna, who was to motor the surgeon home, suggested to Darrow that he should
accompany them. Effie was also of the party; and Darrow inferred that Anna wished to give her
step-son a chance to be alone with his betrothed. On the way back, after the surgeon had been
left at his door, the little girl sat between her mother and Darrow, and her presence kept
their talk from taking a personal turn. Darrow knew that Mrs. Leath had not yet told Effie
of the relation in which he was to stand to her. The premature divulging of Owen's plans had
thrown their own into the background, and by common consent they continued, in the little girl's
presence, on terms of an informal friendliness.

The sky had cleared after luncheon, and to prolong their excursion they returned by way of
the ivy-mantled ruin which was to have been the scene of the projected picnic. This circuit
brought them back to the park gates not long before sunset, and as Anna wished to stop at the
lodge for news of the injured child Darrow left her there with Effie and walked on alone to
the house. He had the impression that she was slightly surprised at his not waiting for her;
but his inner restlessness vented itself in an intense desire for bodily movement. He would
have liked to walk himself into a state of torpor; to tramp on for hours through the moist
winds and the healing darkness and come back staggering with fatigue and sleep. But he had
no pretext for such a flight, and he feared that, at such a moment, his prolonged absence might
seem singular to Anna.

As he approached the house, the thought of her nearness produced a swift reaction of mood.
It was as if an intenser vision of her had scattered his perplexities like morning mists. At
this moment, wherever she was, he knew he was safely shut away in her thoughts, and the knowledge
made every other fact dwindle away to a shadow. He and she loved each other, and their love
arched over them open and ample as the day: in all its sunlit spaces there was no cranny for
a fear to lurk. In a few minutes he would be in her presence and would read his reassurance
in her eyes. And presently, before dinner, she would contrive that they should have an hour
by themselves in her sitting-room, and he would sit by the hearth and watch her quiet movements,
and the way the bluish lustre on her hair purpled a little as she bent above the fire.

A carriage drove out of the court as he entered it, and in the hall his vision was dispelled
by the exceedingly substantial presence of a lady in a waterproof and a tweed hat, who stood
firmly planted in the centre of a pile of luggage, as to which she was giving involved but
lucid directions to the footman who had just admitted her. She went on with these directions
regardless of Darrow's entrance, merely fixing her small pale eyes on him while she proceeded,
in a deep contralto voice, and a fluent French pronounced with the purest Boston accent, to
specify the destination of her bags; and this enabled Darrow to give her back a gaze protracted
enough to take in all the details of her plain thick-set person, from the square sallow face
beneath bands of grey hair to the blunt boot-toes protruding under her wide walking skirt.

She submitted to this scrutiny with no more evidence of surprise than a monument examined by
a tourist; but when the fate of her luggage had been settled she turned suddenly to Darrow
and, dropping her eyes from his face to his feet, asked in trenchant accents: "What sort of
boots have you got on?"

Before he could summon his wits to the consideration of this question she continued in a tone
of suppressed indignation: "Until Americans get used to the fact that France is under water
for half the year they're perpetually risking their lives by not being properly protected.
I suppose you've been tramping through all this nasty clammy mud as if you'd been taking a
stroll on Boston Common."

Darrow, with a laugh, affirmed his previous experience of French dampness, and the degree to
which he was on his guard against it; but the lady, with a contemptuous snort, rejoined: "You
young men are all alike----"; to which she appended, after another hard look at him: "I suppose
you're George Darrow? I used to know one of your mother's cousins, who married a Tunstall of
Mount Vernon Street. My name is Adelaide Painter. Have you been in Boston lately? No? I'm sorry
for that. I hear there have been several new houses built at the lower end of Commonwealth
Avenue and I hoped you could tell me about them. I haven't been there for thirty years myself."

