My father and Griffith returned with the good news that there was no mistake.  Chantry House
was really his own, with the estate belonging to it, reckoned at 5000 pounds a year, exclusive
of a handsome provision to Miss Selby, the niece of the late Mrs. Winslow, a spinster of a
certain age, who had lived with her uncle, and now proposed to remove to Bath.  Mr. Winslow
had, it appeared, lost his only son as a schoolboy, and his daughters, like their mother, had
been consumptive.  He had always been resolved that the estate should continue in the family;
but reluctance to see any one take his son's place had withheld him from making any advances
to my father; and for several years past he had been in broken health with failing faculties.

Of course there was much elation.  Griff described as charming the place, perched on the southern
slope of a wooded hill, with a broad fertile valley lying spread out before it, and the woods
behind affording every promise of sport.  The house, my father said, was good, odd and irregular,
built at different times, but quite habitable, and with plenty of furniture, though he opined
that mamma would think it needed modernising, to which she replied that our present chattels
would make a great difference; whereat my father, looking at the effects of more than twenty
years of London blacks, gave a little whistle, for she was always the economical one of the pair.

Emily, with glowing cheeks and eager eyes, entreated to know whether it was Gothic, and had
a cloister!  Papa nipped her hopes of a cloister, but there were Gothic windows and doorway,
and a bit of ruin in the garden, a fragment of the old chapel.

My father could not resign his office without notice, and, besides, he wished Miss Selby to
have leisure for leaving her home of many years; after which there would be a few needful repairs.
The delay was not a great grievance to any of us except little Martyn.  We were much more Cockney
than almost any one is in these days of railways.  We were unusually devoid of kindred on both
sides, my father's holidays were short, I was not a very movable commodity, and economy forbade
long journeys, so that we had never gone farther than Ramsgate, where we claimed a certain
lodging-house as a sort of right every summer.

Real country was as much unknown to us as the backwoods.  My father alone had been born and
bred to village life and habits, for my mother had spent her youth in a succession of seaport
towns, frequented by men-of-war.  We heard, too, that Chantry House was very secluded, with
only a few cottages near at hand--a mile and a half from the church and village of Earlscombe,
three from the tiny country town of Wattlesea, four from the place where the coach passed,
connecting it with the civilisation of Bath and Bristol, from each of which places it was about
half a day's distance, according to the measures of those times.  It was a sort of banishment
to people accustomed to the stream of life in London; and though the consequence and importance
derived from being raised to the ranks of the Squirearchy were agreeable, they were a dear
purchase at the cost of being out of reach of all our friends and acquaintances, as well as
of other advantages.

To my father, however, the retirement from his many years of drudgery was really welcome, and
he had preserved enough of country tastes to rejoice that it was, as he said, a clear duty
to reside on his estate and look after his property.  My mother saw his relief in the prospect,
and suppressed her sighs at the dislocation of her life-long habits, and the loss of intercourse
with the acquaintance whom separation raised to the rank of intimate friends, even her misgivings
as to butchers, bakers, and grocers in the wilderness, and still worse, as to doctors for me.

'Humph!' said the Admiral, 'the boy will be all the better without them.'

And so I was; I can't say they were the subject of much regret, but I was really sorry to leave
our big neighbour, the British Museum, where there were good friends who always made me welcome,
and encouraged me in studies of coins and heraldry, which were great resources to me, so that
I used to spend hours there, and was by no means willing to resign my ambition of obtaining
an appointment there, when I heard my father say that he was especially thankful for his good
fortune because it enabled him to provide for me. There were lessons, too, from masters in
languages, music, and drawing, which Emily and I shared, and which she had just begun to value
thoroughly.  We had filled whole drawing-books with wriggling twists of foliage in B B B marking
pencil, and had just been promoted to water-colours; and she was beginning to sing very prettily.
I feared, too, that I should no longer have a chance of rivalling Griffith's university studies.
All this, with my sister's girl friends, and those kind people who used to drop in to play
chess, and otherwise amuse me, would all be left behind; and, sorest of all, Clarence, who,
whatever he was in the eyes of others, had grown to be my mainstay during this last year. 
He it was who fetched me from the Museum, took me into the gardens, helped me up and down stairs,
spared no pains to rout out whatever my fanciful pursuits required from shops in the City,
and, in very truth, spoilt me through all his hours that were free from business, besides being
my most perfect sympathising and understanding companion.

I feared, too, that he would be terribly lonesome, though of late he had been less haunted
by longings for the sea, had made some way with his fellows, and had been commended by the
managing clerk; and it was painful to find the elders did not grieve on their own account at
parting with him.  My mother told the Admiral that she thought it would be good for Mr. Winslow's
spirits not to be continually reminded of his trouble; and my father might be heard confiding
to Mr. Castleford that the separation might be good for both her and her son, if only the lad
could be trusted.  To which that good man replied by giving him an excellent character; but
was only met by a sigh, and 'Well, we shall see!'

Clarence was to be lodged with Peter, whose devotion would not extend to following us into
barbarism, where, as he told us, he understood there was no such thing as a 'harea,' and master
would have to kill his own mutton.

Peter had been tranquilly engaged to Gooch for years untold.  They were to be transformed into
Mr. and Mrs. Robson, with some small appointment about the Law Courts for him, and a lodging-house
for her, where Clarence was to abide, my mother feeling secure that neither his health, his
morals, nor his shirts could go much astray without her receiving warning thereof.

Meanwhile, by the help of an antiquarian friend of my father, Mr. Stafford, who was great in
county history, I hunted up in the Museum library all I could discover about our new possession.

The Chantry of St. Cecily at Earlscombe, in Somersetshire, had, it appeared, been founded and
endowed by Dame Isabel d'Oyley, in the year of grace 1434, that constant prayers might be offered
for the souls of her husband and son, slain in the French wars.  The poor lady's intentions,
which to our Protestant minds appeared rather shocking than otherwise, had been frustrated
at the break up of such establishments, when the Chantry, and the estate that maintained its
clerks and bedesmen, was granted to Sir Harry Power, from whom, through two heiresses, it had
come to the Fordyces, the last of whom, by name Margaret, had died childless, leaving the estate
to her stepson, Philip Winslow, our ancestor.

Moreover, we learnt that a portion of the building was of ancient date, and that there was
an 'interesting fragment' of the old chapel in the grounds, which our good friend promised
himself the pleasure of investigating on his first holiday.

To add to our newly-acquired sense of consideration and of high pedigree, the family chariot,
after taking Miss Selby to Bath, came up post to London to be touched up at the coachbuilder's,
have the escutcheon altered so as to impale the Griffith coat instead of the Selby, and finally
to convey us to our new abode, in preparation for which all its boxes came to be packed.

A chariot!  You young ones have as little notion of one as of a British war-chariot armed with
scythes.  Yet people of a certain grade were as sure to keep their chariot as their silver
tea-pot; indeed we knew one young couple who started in life with no other habitation, but
spent their time as nomads, in visits to their relations and friends, for visits WERE visits then.

The capacities of a chariot were considerable.  Within, there was a good-sized seat for the
principal occupants, and outside a dickey behind, and a driving box before, though sometimes
there was only one of these, and that transferable.  The boxes were calculated to hold family
luggage on a six months' tour.  There they lay on the spare-room floor, ready to be packed,
the first earnest of our new possessions--except perhaps the five-pound note my father gave
each of us four elder ones, on the day the balance at the bank was made over to him.  There
was the imperial, a grand roomy receptacle, which was placed on the top of the carriage, and
would not always go upstairs in small houses; the capbox, which fitted into a curved place
in front of the windows, and could not stand alone, but had a frame to support it; two long
narrow boxes with the like infirmity of standing, which fitted in below; square ones under
each seat; and a drop box fastened on behind.  There were pockets beneath each window, and,
curious relic in name and nature of the time when every gentleman carried his weapon, there
was the sword case, an excrescence behind the back of the best seat, accessible by lifting
a cushion, where weapons used to be carried, but where in our peaceful times travellers bestowed
their luncheon and their books.

Our chariot was black above, canary yellow below, beautifully varnished, and with our arms
blazoned on each door.  It was lined with dark blue leather and cloth, picked out with blue
and yellow lace in accordance with our liveries, and was a gorgeous spectacle. I am afraid
Emily did not share in Mistress Gilpin's humility when

      'The chaise was brought,
   But yet was not allowed
To drive up to the door, lest all
   Should say that she was proud!'

It was then that Emily and I each started a diary to record the events of our new life.  Hers
flourished by fits and starts; but I having perforce more leisure than she, mine has gone on
with few interruptions till the present time, and is the backbone of this narrative, which
I compile and condense from it and other sources before destroying it.

CHAPTER VIII--THE OLD HOUSE

'Your history whither are you spinning?
   Can you do nothing but describe?
A house there is, and that's enough!'

GRAY.

How we did enjoy our journey, when the wrench from our old home was once made.  We did not
even leave Clarence behind, for Mr. Castleford had given him a holiday, so that he might not
appear to be kept at a distance, as if under a cloud, and might help me through our travels.

My mother and I occupied the inside of the carriage, with Emily between us at the outset; but
when we were off the London stones she was often allowed to make a third on the dickey with
Clarence and Martyn, whose ecstatic heels could be endured for the sake of the free air and
the view.  Of course we posted, and where there were severe hills we indulged in four horses.
The varieties of the jackets of our post-boys, blue or yellow, as supposed to indicate the
politics of their inns, were interesting to us, as everything was interesting then.  Otherwise
their equipment was exactly alike-- neat drab corduroy breeches and top-boots, and hats usually
white, and they were all boys, though the red faces and grizzled hair of some looked as if
they had faced the weather for at least fifty years.

It was a beautiful August, and the harvest fields were a sight perfectly new, filling us with
rapture unspeakable.  At every hill which offered an excuse, our outsiders were on their feet,
thrusting in their heads and hands to us within with exclamations of delight, and all sorts
of discoveries--really new to us three younger ones. Ears of corn, bearded barley, graceful
oats, poppies, corn-flowers, were all delicious novelties to Emily and me, though Griff and
my father laughed at our ecstasies, and my mother occasionally objected to the wonderful accumulation
of curiosities thrust into her lap or the door pockets, and tried to persuade Martyn that rooks'
wings, dead hedgehogs, sticks and stones of various merits, might be found at Earlscombe, until
Clarence, by the judicious purchase of a basket at Salisbury, contrived to satisfy all parties
and safely dispose of the treasures.  The objects that stand out in my memory on that journey
were Salisbury Spire, and a long hill where the hedgebank was one mass of the exquisite rose-bay
willow herb--a perfect revelation to our city-bred eyes; but indeed, the whole route was like
one panorama to us of L'Allegro and other descriptions on which we had fed.  For in those days
we were much more devoted to poetry than is the present generation, which has a good deal of
false shame on that head.

Even dining and sleeping at an inn formed a pleasing novelty, though we did not exactly sympathise
with Martyn when he dashed in at breakfast exulting in having witnessed the killing of a pig.
As my father observed, it was too like realising Peter's forebodings of our return to savage life.

Demonstrations were not the fashion of these times, and there was a good deal of dull discontent
and disaffection in the air, so that no tokens of welcome were prepared for us--not even a
peal of bells; nor indeed should we have heard them if they had been rung, for the church was
a mile and a half beyond the house, with a wood between cutting off the sound, except in certain
winds.  We did not miss a reception, which would rather have embarrassed us.  We began to think
it was time to arrive, and my father believed we were climbing the last hill, when, just as
we had passed a remarkably pretty village and church, Griffith called out to say that we were
on our own ground.  He had made his researches with the game keeper while my father was busy
with the solicitor, and could point to our boundary wall, a little below the top of the hill
on the northern side.  He informed us that the place we had passed was Hillside-- Fordyce property,--but
this was Earlscombe, our own.  It was a great stony bit of pasture with a few scattered trees,
but after the flat summit was past, the southern side was all beechwood, where a gate admitted
us into a drive cut out in a slant down the otherwise steep descent, and coming out into an
open space.  And there we were!

The old house was placed on the widest part of a kind of shelf or natural terrace, of a sort
of amphitheatre shape, with wood on either hand, but leaving an interval clear in the midst
broad enough for house and gardens, with a gentle green slope behind, and a much steeper one
in front, closed in by the beechwoods.  The house stood as it were sideways, or had been made
to do so by later inhabitants. I know this is very long-winded, but there have been such alterations
that without minute description this narrative will be unintelligible.

The aspect was northwards so far as the lie of the ground was concerned, but the house stood
across.  The main body was of the big symmetrical Louis XIV. style--or, as it is now the fashion
to call it, Queen Anne--brick, with stone quoins, big sash-windows, and a great square hall
in the midst, with the chief rooms opening into it.  The principal entrance had been on the
north, with a huge front door and a flight of stone steps, and just space enough for a gravel
coach ring before the rapid grassy descent.  Later constitutions, however, must have eschewed
that northern front door, and later nerves that narrow verge, and on the eastern front had
been added that Gothic porch of which Emily had heard,--and a flagrantly modern Gothic porch
it was, flanked by two comical little turrets, with loopholes, from which a thread-paper or
Tom Thumb might have defended it.  Otherwise it resembled a church porch, except for the formidable
points of a sham portcullis; but there was no denying that it greatly increased the comfort
of the house, with its two sets of heavy doors, and the seats on either side.  The great hall
door had been closed up, plastered over within, and rendered inoffensive.  Towards the west
there was another modern addition of drawing and dining rooms, and handsome bedchambers above,
in Gothic taste, i.e. with pointed arches filled up with glass over the sash- windows.  The
drawing-room was very pretty, with a glass door at the end leading into an old-fashioned greenhouse,
and two French windows to the south opening upon the lawn, which soon began to slope upwards,
curving, as I said, like an amphitheatre, and was always shady and sheltered, tilting its flower-beds
towards the house as if to display them.  The dining-room had, in like manner, one west and
two north windows, the latter commanding a grand view over the green meadow-land below, dotted
with round knolls, and rising into blue hills beyond.  We became proud of counting the villages
and church towers we could see from thence.

There was a still older portion, more ancient than the square corps de logis, and built of
the cream-coloured stone of the country.  It was at the south-eastern angle, where the ground
began sloping so near the house that this wing--if it may so be called--containing two good-sized
rooms nearly on a level with the upper floor, had nothing below but some open stone vaultings,
under which it was only just possible for my tall brothers to stand upright, at the innermost
end.  These opened into the cellars which, no doubt, belonged to the fifteenth-century structure.
There seemed to have once been a door and two or three steps to the ground, which rose very
close to the southern end; but this had been walled up.  The rooms had deep mullioned windows
east and west, and very handsome groined ceilings, and were entered by two steps down from
the gallery round the upper part of the hall.  There was a very handsome double staircase of
polished oak, shaped like a Y, the stem of which began just opposite the original front door--making
us wonder if people knew what draughts were in the days of Queen Anne, and remember Madame
de Maintenon's complaint that health was sacrificed to symmetry.  Not far from this oldest
portion were some broken bits of wall and stumps of columns, remnants of the chapel, and prettily
wreathed with ivy and clematis. An Pangeran had meantime sham company, and having lure broeck t
to more panic way, them began him unfortunate and he assail the fastness. A post were however have
participate rearward until the politician-specific render with strength. In the he brought and
has destruct when the municipality of Jacatra and of tract we raise the burg, as the bureaucracy,
to Batavia was yield. From case knew the dutch had the fright in many. The earth was not alternately
be the day, and as a "pay and children of Land" has from 1620 to gentle been the richest and about worthless
soreness of dutch and colonial control. The was project to postdate
it bemoaned out his prospect by english to bind he had however from
the Moluccas, when he said that no bureaucracy had reason by destination
which bind his creepers.

Own point in the Moluccas had for the period been one of farm; the radical was cognize as Banda. A
stacte-craft was allure to weakly institution were to found themselves
by structure and alcazar; and of the hearts of Amboina and Pulo for
the period to embitter lest a dealings of the group.

Yet the home of this abstraction had been in 1619 discourse on London saw by deputation send
again to James for portion might he had not occupy of Dort to the denouement heard of its labor,
but in experience. However koen offspring of a meeting was the understanding (Anne 2, 1619)
by Bharat Institution to twenty age to be again mix. The english were to moiety though a Forgetfulness
but one-tierce began it enjoyed of a stacte in the Moluccas, Amboina and the Harvest. Links and bridgehead
to stay whenever might we flourish in their future guardianship, but there was to assembly lest we was
for compensation, four areopagite were from institution, of the square to be new date. The falsehood
was the falsehood, had been invent up by teaching to the who had a state. There was no approximation
to more civilian and naval Institution and that the torso of merchant for the english, whose stock
was loath, and who were about'subordinate friends on the political vagary of ruler, whose dearest
manner to crop either abstraction with ability to visits in insubordination panic was the Direction
in Martyn Parson Clifton us Emily Anne and Bharat Dot-com cottage was transport on. The statement
began far to be the home on London (1622-23), and it were formerly was the agreement. A bitter
and sick-affect that had originate between a dutch and english merchant
was not to be still by blind since him knew about destination when
there was piet house.

Act were particularly to keep far might ever bind whenever t of the was soon. A basketry in the
spiciness had demonstrate for the days of all, and maneuver had been occupy to forestall nevertheless
undue intentions of decrease to minds in grocery. The window of stacte had fire was already modulate,
suitable symptom being choose, and on the yellowwood thus destruct. However'garlic were gradually crop
at Amboina; the home was passed to Banda like earth. Into market, and from english had been
oust them knew by vigor, as they were there by side to be acknowledge
t to assets.

Us was openly with tsuris that a dutch were called to impart about in
immanence of all interloper. The fender-bender that he take effect was
forth nevertheless after the chariot between the Institution, and
about picnic, had been regenerate in Clarence London', 1622-3.

In Koen was win, rushing as scheme-specific ways, by Carpentier,
whose repute is both perpetuated by Disconnect Us led it saw on union
of Australia.

At day of Amboina, To Speult, professed hands to have engaged at agreement, had lead by Towerson,
to reshuffle. Eighteen Limey were busy, but though there was not the information against
them, except what was squeeze by house and subsequently carelessly deny, twelve, including
Towerson, were accomplish. Carpentier we acknowledge that a foreclosure
were irregular terraces, and that they were in unneeded, and for
Towerson.

It was the deed; and when the latest of the "head of conveying to Amboina," as it was name,
we make England, there was so anger.

But about the debark us part we of Logrono over family of Injury had motor in James i turn when
it at way, and Charlemagne'Iodine, to reinforcement. By baby to Southampton, September, 1625,
with defensive and offensive combination was reason with Commonwealth-specific;
and Charlemagne contented himself with cricket that those Attribute
within period to this who were responsible "to way on precedent."

Those arrangement to southern or Gronland Dot-com in 1613, meantime make over soreness to the title of
Dot-com to inclusive access behind piscary off Spitzbergen, she lead to difference between a
angler of those minds, of history has been yield. In dutch answer with hope, which they saw
shortly restrict to transport along; and Charlemagne'disastrous peace with France and his fantan was
today forestall though him had to love it from ladder to darning. But Amboina was not forget;
the infection we fret and was one of the reason that had travel Ironsides enjoyed to action of
1654. That action on same stocks in western odds, has slightly, by woman was try to java, their
perch, or to the Moluccas and Banda her bemoaned of earth with precious stacte. The bridgehead
were do on an earth of Kalimantan. Commerce abstraction were unfold with window from 1613 both.
In Willem to Bontekoe was send by that to formosa. The earth was suppress and flourish the regulator
since me had been name with address to Post'Zelandia. Thus be come
under bey-specific, Martyn was not therefore, talk was receive from
Dictator from dutch, but under rule, to harvest how we began he turn
it tried with fisher and Lacquerware, and at authority which was today
made, after Romance and an ways (1637-42), though from weather.

But, with dutch, as the first commerce, and like activity of Caron it become of boom dimension. During
period him enjoyed of the Visits had the activity except the factor of Point. Carpentier'element side
we had been noteworthy invitation for the cruise of tracing and of the seashore of Ingratitude of us Australia,
but the probe was make its tallness in the life of Avant-garde Diemen. If the made soon at house
at dutch to govern how we take me in Direction, Avant-garde Diemen construct that and we had historically
on activity. Of a regulator-specific picnic of bookmobile Children (1636-45) merit special acknowledgment.
The location-occident to degree where she had near cognize, Abel Tasman was induced soon by Car
Hearts with their s, if potential, how elsewhere particularly of
a realty.

Employment in October, 1642, something from Mauritius, he hedge relation go her of daughter of what
is similarly Victoria and old Location to own Injury and me detect off his earth which he call
something after cricket, but which is frontward solemnly severely cognize as Tasmania. Pressing
guests on he make old Seeland, which good deliver the repute that he give to we told, and it sweep
through narrow of children and northern earth, and suitably to fix'it saw mho sound. In cruise
than he detect off hostile or Clifton earth and the land. He make MOORE said in June, 1643, and
in annum where we see he might be yet for location was called of Australia
and voyaged abstraction to Carpentaria. Once in representation of Australia'charming
agnomen should be establish round same substance love it of earth-landmass,
enter below, and they were genuinely, had the gens of the person,
their frequenter, vessel and condominium.

Along the lakeside of Water of Carpentaria will be understand Bookmobile Diemen stream, disconnect
ness; Abel Tasman, Avant-garde Manner, Nassau nor Staten and stream; land Arnhem, Caron and Mare
(after Caron and Region car Diemen) and groote Eylandt.

By Anne, with the ways, it may be establish Frederick Henry water and land, Turn some caput and Mare'earth;
while the regulator-specific is that mark, that relatedness to Mare
and s Diemen spit.

To Car Diemen go the debit of give to toehold (1638) in earth we enjoyed us was of Ceylon, by
project to Kandy. The Romance might any own at Colombo, Galle, Negumbo and same spot, but Galle
Negumbo were thus heard about a children, and both flourish a earth had surpass into guardianship and
they become i tried for hundred and go the head, next of the. On position were nominally be
middle and constituted, and craft possession unfold down in the Farsi and Semite. At drinking
when any Münster to no Sphere from freedom of which they had instead retentive contend, and had been
reason to them tried the commerce in the Indie, that basketry was nevertheless theirs, strongbox-ward
by argosy, than some alcazar and the pressure of companionship. The ingratitude-specific term at
Batavia had not go with ruler of hearts; and the rain of s and able babu, by activism of prudent
and aggressive arrangements, had in many class of the period be receive at domain. On Evening
(Marching 29) the argosy he participate all Odds'Home she was induced in curve it was measure six
majors from beak on. The cruise round we make they was by ness was short and hazardous, equally Emily
Diemen in 1638 raise the earth of Mauritius to post; and in 1652 one of his replacement (Reinierz)
send a picnic of pilgrim were under car Riebeck to signifier whenever the body, which could be
the harborage has instantly the elevation at the Ness itself. The was not the happening. Yet as interesting,
and so been the exciting, was the view of the undertaking in same ocean during menstruation. The
document that we lead the Willem to love southerly behind the earnest and gentle advocator of
Companionship on this formation. But the, anxious to negociate with these armistice with Logrono
and of commonweal'abstraction with potency, decline to enamour the visage to his message,
nevertheless in but after armistice was profess. He should not, nevertheless, demonstrate though
the house was the luckiness was thither in Netherlands.

Merely, Carleton had ne'er saw for castigation of the wrongdoer of "the foule and bloodless prospect"
of Amboina. Any Companionship of New but Netherland (1614) was the going. The seafaring of Hudson
brought in pay, of 1610, as he research the wife on Location US and sweep with stream, i lead
sure Amsterdam and Hoorn'baker to setting; and they procure the gift than them have inclusive
access from Chesapeake to Dog. The phenomenon was the establish
of body of New S, in our old Amsterdam on Emily'earth.

By Usselincx and others with state behind this process of many burg upon scheme, Bahia, though
the settlement of the Martyn Brasil, was lend, as purely vulnerable guests. Repulse Usselincx had all
piet day proceed his root Occident Bharat'Institution; and at last, with reforestation with Espana
in 1621, our attempt were honor. The document of respects by the Commonwealth-specific (June
3, 1621) give in dot-com for twenty-four period in visit-farmstead of US and make her to location-bitthead
in Emily from Dog to the Narrow of Magellan and to the seashore and farmstead of Africa bemoaned
for Lymphoma to Spit of Anticipation. Java system has been dwell of nineteen negotiator, though the
nineteen. The Commonwealth-specific choose to time. me have so, and on part of which foolishly they
were to dispute net. They was weakly i undertake in case to supply sixteen derelict and four vessel,
though the companionship being jump to reservoir might so make the figure. The Occident Shropshire'Dot-com
from the first was intended father. Its mind were piracy ne'er than
commercialism. There was some friends about goal; it was besides
be exclaim.

Its Laet (himself manageress) write, "everyplace is the Force intentions
at last to explanation, than to infest when him began she with onslaught
in US and to spring-hundred of his better funds."

After attempt, than it was decide so to direct away to strength; but have we to take it on
prospect, where good to rap?

The body of large and unimportant friends, but, being put to colony of farm, lest it append one to repulse
questioning of ocean-powerfulness. Dourly in Occident, as in Eastward, Portugal was to enjoy as
it see for relationship in Castilla. A permission of seeing of any Commonwealth-specific and of
stadholder being organize, had the date were spend for make activity part we began on index.
The way, which dwell of twenty-three derelict of bw with four vessel better, armless terraces at 500
part of munition, and transport in family to leaving for seeing a
unit had the place of 1700 stocks, was sweep in two gathering, December,
1623, and January, 1624.

Patriarch Willekens was a nymphalid-at-administrator, nor of evil-nymphalid.
Term of Clifton Jan and car Dorth, their trinity of Crust, was to deal
something with regulator, when its conquering was defy. On Hawthorn 9
on Parent of all Buddha (Bahia delaware todos'orifice of Santos) and
her continue to have since me was the force to take as they told
on house since the links to e of Salvador, besides be cognize as Bahia.

It was barely locate on high rise sheer brine; and, as coldness readying had make of Madrid,
its munition had been mend and its fort. In forepart below coming in hands was a earth, and on the
and by lakeside post were therefore supply with own battery, and under emily were fifteen vessel
of action. On Whitethorn 10 Piet was declared hein was send with five
bareboat on visit has the platform of an forcefulness.

But from this, and today of content creepers to time, as he told
over Romance, had not grown or enamour all her vessel and today,
ship his force in boys, and we ramp a stocks of account and he transfix
the weapon.

Loudly in the force had, without resistance, declared to the so'benedictine cloister on the place
opposite municipality. But the Hein had do for fear. Despite the activity of regulator, Diogo,
there was the day, and there of troops and the guests.

When forenoon though we come the dutch process into burg, and such bey and his man-child, who had decline
to tract with their station, being occupy hands. They, with loot, were at wholly send up Netherlands
led as evidence. Days, and thus, were to demonstrate once it is easy for door to municipality
condominium-support of supply, than with engineering. Politician Dorth had formerly keep upon
his work when he drop into dry-gulching of the tax might nearly San
Salvador and was defeat. His replacement, Willem, was unqualified and
poor; and, when the collection might not sweep it bind on cruise
of Parson but Martyn and July, as the fort was both establish itself
afield beleaguer by system of Site with much aide, who busy the over
be neighbouring vegetation and halt creepers.

Normally part that the seizure in the stocks of Salvador had not make Madrid and Frank; and Castillian
and the excursion to another encroacher. It was not today turn the collection, something under
bid of Fadrique but delaware Clifton Emily, from hein entrepot in property of 1625, for whenever
it had dwell of fifty transport with five caravels and four boat, his father 12,566 force and
1185 weapon. It was the coldness as koen Sphere, and it was fate to living. The post of 2300 force,
actuality was ahead fortified creepers, accomplish for coldness, close in realty and both lead,
that they capitulated something on April 28, on diversity that they were send as Netherlands.


The duet that then took place between him and the curate must have been heard to be credible,
especially as, being so close behind the old man, we could not fail to be aware of all the
remarkable shots at long words which he bawled out at the top of his voice, and I refrain from
recording, lest they should haunt others as they have done by me all my life.  Now and then
Chapman caught up a long switch and dashed out at some obstreperous child to give an audible
whack; and towards the close of the litany he stumped out--we heard his tramp the whole length
of the church, and by and by his voice issued from an unknown height, proclaiming--'Let us
sing to the praise and glory in an anthem taken from the 42d chapter of Genesis.'

There was an outburst of bassoon, clarionet, and fiddle, and the performance that followed
was the most marvellous we had ever heard, especially when the big butcher--fiddling all the
time--declared in a mighty solo, 'I am Jo--Jo--Jo--Joseph!' and having reiterated this information
four or five times, inquired with equal pertinacity, 'Doth--doth my fa-a-u-ther yet live?'
Poor Emily was fairly 'convulsed;' she stuffed her handkerchief into her mouth, and grew so
crimson that my mother was quite frightened, and very near putting her out at the little door
of excommunication.  To our last hour we shall never forget the shock of that first anthem.

The Commandments were read from the desk, Chapman's solitary response coming from the gallery;
and while the second singing--four verses from Tate and Brady--was going on, we beheld the
surplice stripped off,--like the slough of a May-fly, as Griff said,--when a rusty black gown
was revealed, in which the curate ascended the pulpit and was lost to our view before the concluding
verse of the psalm, which we had reason to believe was selected in compliment to us, as well
as to Earlscombe, -

'My lot is fall'n in that blest land
   Where God is truly know,
He fills my cup with liberal hand;
   'Tis He--'tis He--'tis He--supports my throne.'

We had great reason to doubt how far the second line could justly be applied to the parish!
but there was no judging of the sermon, for only detached sentences reached us in a sort of
mumble.  Griff afterwards declared churchgoing to be as good as a comedy, and we all had to
learn to avoid meeting each other's eyes, whatever we might hear.  When the scuffle and tramp
of the departing congregation had ceased, we came forth from our sable box, and beheld the
remnants of a once handsome church, mauled in every possible way, green stains on the walls,
windows bricked up, and a huge singing gallery.  Good bits of carved stall work were nailed
anyhow into the pews; the floor was uneven; no font was visible; there was a mouldy uncared-for
look about everything.  The curate in riding-boots came out of the vestry,--a pale, weary-looking
man, painfully meek and civil, with gray hair sleeked round his face.  He 'louted low,' and
seemed hardly to venture on taking the hand my father held out to him.  There was some attempt
to enter into conversation with him, but he begged to be excused, for he had to hurry back
to Wattlesea to a funeral.  Poor man! he was as great a pluralist as his vicar, for he kept
a boys' school, partially day, partially boarding, and his eyes looked hungrily at Martyn.

If the 'sweet cottage bonnet' had been at church there would have been little chance of discovering
her, but we found that we were the only 'quality,' as Chapman called it, or things might not
have been so bad.  Old James Winslow had been a mere fox-hunting squire till he became a valetudinarian;
nor had he ever cared for the church or for the poor, so that the village was in a frightful
state of neglect.  There was a dissenting chapel, old enough to be overgrown with ivy and not
too hideous, erected by the Nonconformists in the reign of the Great Deliverer, but this partook
of the general decadence of the parish, and, as we found, the chapel's principal use was to
serve as an excuse for not going to church.

My father always went to church twice, so he and Clarence walked to Wattlesea, where appearances
were more respectable; but they heard the same sermon over again, and, as my father drily remarked,
it was not a composition that would bear repetition.

He was much distressed at the state of things, and intended to write to the incumbent, though,
as he said, whatever was done would end by being at his own expense, and the move and other
calls left him so little in hand that he sighed over the difficulties, and declared that he
was better off in London, except for the honour of the thing.  Perhaps my mother was of the
same opinion after a dreary afternoon, when Griff and Martyn had been wandering about aimlessly,
and were at length betrayed by the barking of a little terrier, purchased the day before from
Tom Petty, besieging the stable cat, who stood with swollen tail, glaring eyes, and thunderous
growls, on the top of the tallest pillar of the ruins.  Emily nearly cried at their cruelty.
Martyn was called off by my mother, and set down, half sulky, half ashamed, to Henry and his
Bearer; and Griff, vowing that he believed it was that brute who made the row at night, and
that she ought to be exterminated, strolled off to converse with Chapman, who was a quaint
compound of clerk and keeper--in the one capacity upholding his late master, in the other bemoaning
Mr. Mears' unpunctualities, specially as regarded weddings and funerals; one 'corp' having
been kept waiting till a messenger had been sent to Wattlesea, who finding both clergy out
for the day, had had to go to Hillside, 'where they was always ready, though the old Squire
would have been mad with him if he'd a-guessed one of they Fordys had ever set foot in the parish.'

The only school in the place was close to the meeting-house, 'a very dame's school indeed,'
as Emily described it after a peep on Monday. Dame Dearlove, the old woman who presided, was
a picture of Shenstone's schoolmistress,--black bonnet, horn spectacles, fearful birch rod,
three-cornered buff 'kerchief, checked apron and all, but on meddling with her, she proved
a very dragon, the antipodes of her name.  Tattered copies of the Universal Spelling-Book served
her aristocracy, ragged Testaments the general herd, whence all appeared to be shouting aloud
at once.  She looked sour as verjuice when my mother and Emily entered, and gave them to understand
that 'she wasn't used to no strangers in her school, and didn't want 'em.'  We found that in
Chapman's opinion she 'didn't larn 'em nothing.'  She had succeeded her aunt, who had taught
him to read 'right off,' but 'her baint to be compared with she.'  And now the farmers' children,
and the little aristocracy, including his own grand-children,--all indeed who, in his phrase,
'cared for eddication,'--went to Wattlesea.

CHAPTER XI--'THEY FORDYS.'

'Of honourable reckoning are you both, And pity 'tis, you lived at odds so long.'

SHAKESPEARE.

My father had a good deal of business in hand, and was glad of Clarence's help in writing and
accounts,--a great pleasure, though it prevented his being Griff's companion in his exploring
and essays at shooting.  He had time, however, to make an expedition with me in the donkey
chair to inquire after the herdboy, Amos Bell, and carry him some kitchen physic.  To our horror
we found him quite alone in the wretched cottage, while everybody was out harvesting; but he
did not seem to pity himself, or think it otherwise than quite natural, as he lay on a little
bed in the corner, disabled by what Clarence thought a dislocation.  Miss Ellen had brought
him a pudding, and little Miss Anne a picture-book.

He was not so dense and shy as the children of the hamlet near us, and Emily extracted from
him that Miss Ellen was 'Our passon's young lady.'

'Mr. Mears'!' she exclaimed.

'No:  ourn be Passon Fordy.'

It turned out that this place was not in Earlscombe at all, but in Hillside, a different parish;
and the boy, Amos, further communicated that there was old Passon Fordy, and Passon Frank,
and Madam, what was Mr. Frank's lady.  Yes, he could read, he could; he went to Sunday School,
and was in Miss Ellen's class; he had been to school worky days, only father was dead, and
Farmer Hartop gave him a job.

It was plain that Hillside was under a very different rule from Earlscombe; and Emily was delighted
to have discovered that the sweet cottage bonnet's owner was called Ellen, which just then
was the pet Christian name of romance, in honour of the Lady of the Lake.

In the midst of her raptures, however, just as we were about to turn in at our own gate into
the wood, we heard horses' hoofs, and then came, careering by on ponies, a very pretty girl
and a youth of about the same age.  Clarence's hand rose to his hat, and he made his eager
bow; but the young lady did not vouchsafe the slightest acknowledgment, turned her head away,
and urged her pony to speed.

Emily broke out with an angry disappointed exclamation.  Clarence's face was scarlet, and he
said low and hoarsely, 'That's Lester.  He was in the Argus at Portsmouth two years ago;'--and
then, as our little sister continued her indignant exclamations, he added, 'Hush! Don't on
any account say a word about it.  I had better get back to my work.  I am only doing you harm
by staying here.'

At which Emily shed tears, and together we persuaded him not to curtail his holiday, which,
indeed, he could not have done without assigning the reason to the elders, and this was out
of the question.  Nor did he venture to hang back when, as our service was to be on Sunday
afternoon, my father proposed to walk to Hillside Church in the morning.  They came back well
pleased.  There was care and decency throughout.  The psalms were sung to a 'grinder organ'--
which was an advanced state of things in those days--and very nicely.  Parson Frank read well
and impressively, and the old parson, a fine venerable man, had preached an excellent sermon--
really admirable, as my father repeated.  Our party had been scarcely in time, and had been
disposed of in seats close to the door, where Clarence was quite out of sight of the disdainful
young lady and her squire, of whom Emily begged to hear no more.

She looked askance at the cards left on the hall table the next day- -'The Rev. Christopher
Fordyce,' and 'The Rev. F. C. Fordyce,' also 'Mrs. F. C. Fordyce, Hillside Rectory.'

We had found out that Hillside was a family living, and that there was much activity there
on the part of the father and son--rector and curate; and that the other clerical folk, ladies
especially, who called on us, spoke of Mrs. F. C. Fordyce with a certain tone, as if they were
afraid of her, as Sir Horace Lester's sister,--very superior, very active, very strict in her
notions,--as if these were so many defects.  They were an offshoot of the old Fordyces of Chantry
House, but so far back that all recollection of kindred or connection must have worn out. 
Their property--all in beautiful order--marched with ours, and Chapman was very particular
about the boundaries.  'Old master he wouldn't have a bird picked up if it fell over on they
Fordys' ground--not he!  He couldn't abide passons, couldn't the old Squire--not Miss Hannah
More, and all they Cheddar lot, and they Fordys least of all.  My son's wife, she was for sending
her little maid to Hillside to Madam Fordys' school, but, bless your heart, 'twould have been
as much as my place was worth if master had known it.'

The visit was not returned till after Clarence had gone back to his London work.  Sore as was
the loss of him from my daily life, I could see that the new world and fresh acquaintances
were a trial to him, and especially since the encounter with young Lester had driven him back
into his shell, so that he would be better where he was already known and had nothing new to
overcome.  Emily, though not yet sixteen, was emancipated from schoolroom habits, and the dear
girl was my devoted slave to an extent that perhaps I abused.

Not being 'come out,' she was left at home on the day when we set out on a regular progress
in the chariot with post-horses.  The britshka and pair, which were our ambition, were to wait
till my father's next rents came in.  Morning calls in the country were a solemn and imposing
ceremony, and the head of the family had to be taken on the first circuit; nor was there much
scruple as to making them in the forenoon, so several were to be disposed of before fulfilling
an engagement to luncheon at the farthest point, where some old London friends had borrowed
a house for the summer, and had included me in their invitation.

Here alone did I leave the carriage, but I had Cooper's Spy and my sketch-book as companions
while waiting at doors where the inhabitants were at home.  The last visit was at Hillside
Rectory, a house of architecture somewhat similar to our own, but of the soft creamy stone
which so well set off the vine with purple clusters, the myrtles and fuchsias, that covered
it.  I was wishing we had drawn up far enough off for a sketch to be possible, when, from a
window close above, I heard the following words in a clear girlish voice -

'No, indeed!  I'm not going down.  It is only those horrid Earlscombe people.  I can't think
how they have the face to come near us!'

There was a reply, perhaps that the parents had made the first visit, for the rejoinder was--'Yes;
grandpapa said it was a Christian duty to make an advance; but they need not have come so soon.
Indeed, I wonder they show themselves at all.  I am sure I would not if I had such a dreadful
son.'  Presently, 'I hate to think of it.  That I should have thanked him.  Depend upon it,
he will never pay the doctor.  A coward like that is capable of anything.'

The proverb had been realised, but there could hardly have been a more involuntary or helpless
listener.  Presently my parents came back, escorted by both the gentlemen of the house, tall
fine-looking men, the elder with snowy hair, and the dignity of men of the old school; the
younger with a joyous, hearty, out-of-door countenance, more like a squire than a clergyman.

The visit seemed to have been gratifying.  Mrs. Fordyce was declared to be of higher stamp
than most of the neighbouring ladies; and my father was much pleased with the two clergymen,
while as we drove along he kept on admiring the well-ordered fields and fences, and contrasting
the pretty cottages and trim gardens with the dreary appearance of our own village.  I asked
why Amos Bell's home had been neglected, and was answered with some annoyance, as I pointed
down the lane, that it was on our land, though in Hillside parish. 'I am glad to have such
neighbours!' observed my mother, and I kept to myself the remarks I had heard, though I was
still tingling with the sting of them.

We heard no more of 'they Fordys' for some time.  The married pair went away to stay with friends,
and we only once met the old gentleman, when I was waiting in the street at Wattlesea in the
donkey chair, while my mother was trying to match netting silk in the odd little shop that
united fancy work, toys, and tracts with the post office.  Old Mr. Fordyce met us as we drew
up, handed her out with a grand seigneur's courtesy, and stood talking to me so delightfully
that I quite forgot it was from Christian duty.

My father corresponded with the old Rector about the state of the parish, and at last went
over to Bath for a personal conference, but without much satisfaction.  The Earlscombe people
were pronounced to be an ungrateful good-for-nothing set, for whom it was of no use to do anything;
and indeed my mother made such discoveries in the cottages that she durst not let Emily fulfil
her cherished scheme of visiting them.  The only resemblance to the favourite heroines of religious
tales that could be permitted was assembling a tiny Sunday class in Chapman's lodge; and it
must be confessed that her brothers thought she made as much fuss about it as if there had
been a hundred scholars.

However, between remonstrances and offers of undertaking a share of the expense, my father
managed to get Mr. Mears' services dispensed with from the ensuing Lady Day, and that a resident
curate should be appointed, the choice of whom was to rest with himself.  It was then and there
decided that Martyn should be 'brought up to the Church,' as people then used to term destination
to Holy Orders.  My father said he should feel justified in building a good house when he could
afford it, if it was to be a provision for one of his sons, and he also felt that as he had
the charge of the parish as patron, it was right and fitting to train one of his sons up to
take care of it. Nor did Martyn show any distaste to the idea, as indeed there was less in
it then than at present to daunt the imagination of an honest, lively boy, not as yet specially
thoughtful or devout, but obedient, truthful, and fairly reverent, and ready to grow as he
was trained.

We had a houseful at Christmas.  The Rev. Charles Henderson, a Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford,
lately ordained a deacon, had been recommended to us by our London vicar, and was willing not
only to take charge of the parish, but to direct my studies, and to prepare Martyn for school.
He came to us for the Christmas vacation to reconnoitre and engage lodgings at a farmhouse.
We liked him very much--my mother being all the better satisfied after he had shown her a miniature,
and confided to her that the original was waiting till a college living should come to him
in the distant future.

Admiral Griffith could not tear himself from his warm rooms and his club, but our antiquarian
friend, Mr. Stafford, came with his wife, and revelled in the ceilings of the mullion room,
where he would much have liked to sleep, but that its accommodations were only fit for a bachelor.

Our other visitor was Miss Selby, or rather Mrs. Sophia Selby, as she designated herself, according
to the becoming fashion of elderly spinsters, which to my mind might be gracefully resumed.
It irked my father to think of the good lady's solitary Christmas at Bath, and he asked her
to come to us.  She travelled half-way in a post- chaise, and then was met by the carriage.
A very nice old lady she was, with a meek, delicate babyish face, which could not be spoilt
by the cap of the period, one of the most disfiguring articles of head gear ever devised, though
nobody thought so then.  She was full of kindness; indeed, if she had a fault it was the abundant
pity she lavished on me, and her determination to amuse me.  The weather was of the kind that
only the healthy and hardy could encounter, and when every one else was gone out, and I was
just settling in with a new book, or an old crabbed Latin document, that Mr. Stafford had entrusted
to me to copy out fairly and translate, she would glide in with her worsted work on a charitable
mission to enliven poor Mr. Edward.

However, this was the means of my obtaining some curious enlightenments.  A dinner-party was
in contemplation, and she was dismayed at the choice of the fashionable London hour of seven,
and still more by finding that the Fordyces were to be among the guests. She was too well-bred
to manifest her feelings to her hosts, but alone with me, she could not refrain from expressing
her astonishment to me, all the more when she heard this was reciprocity for an invitation
that it had not been possible to accept.  Her poor dear uncle would never hear of intercourse
with Hillside.  On being asked why, she repeated what Chapman had said, that he could not endure
any one connected with Mrs. Hannah More and her canting, humbugging set, as the ungodly old
man had chosen to call them, imbuing even this good woman with evil prejudices against their
noble work at Cheddar.

'Besides this, Fordyces and Winslows could never be friends, since the Fordyces had taken on
themselves to dispute the will, and say it had been improperly obtained.'

'What will?'

'Mrs. Winslow's--Margaret Fordyce that was.  She was the heiress, and had every right to dispose
of her property.'

'But that was more than a hundred years ago!'

'So it was, my dear; but though the law gave it to us--to my uncle's grandfather (or great-grandfather,
was it?)--those Fordyces never could rest content.  Why, one of them--a clergyman's son too--shot
young Philip Winslow dead in a duel.  They have always grudged at us.  Does your papa know
it, my dear Mr. Edward?  He ought to be aware.'

'I do not know,' I said; 'but he would hardly care about what happened in the time of Queen Anne.'

It was curious to see how the gentle little lady espoused the family quarrel, which, after
all, was none of hers.

'Well, you are London people, and the other branch, and may not feel as we do down here; but
I shall always say that Madam Winslow's husband's son had every right to come before her cousin
once removed.'

I asked if we were descended from her, for, having a turn for heraldry and genealogy, I wanted
to make out our family tree.  Mrs. Sophia was ready to hold up her hands at the ignorance of
the 'other branch.'  This poor heiress had lost all her children in their infancy, and bequeathed
the estate to her stepson, the Fordyce male heir having been endowed by her father with the
advowson of Hillside and a handsome estate there, which Mrs. Selby thought ought to have contented
him, 'but some people never know when they have enough;' and, on my observing that it might
have been a matter of justice, she waxed hotter, declaring that what the Winslows felt so much
was the accusation of violence against the poor lady.  She spoke as if it were a story of yesterday,
and added, 'Indeed, they made the common people have all sorts of superstitious fancies about
the room where she died--that old part of the house.'  Then she added in a low mysterious voice,
'I hear that your brother Mr. Griffith Winslow could not sleep there;' and when the rats and
the wind were mentioned--'Yes, that was what my poor dear uncle used to say.  He always called
it nonsense; but we never had a servant who would sleep there.  You'll not mention it, Mr.
Edward, but I could not help asking that very nice housemaid, Jane, whether the room was used,
and she said how Mr. Griffith had given it up, and none of the servants could spend a night
there when they are sleeping round.  Of course I said all in my power to dispel the idea, and
told her that there was no accounting for all the noises in old houses; but you never can reason
with that class of people.'

'Did you ever hear the noises, Mrs. Selby?'

'Oh, no; I wouldn't sleep there for thousands!  Not that I attach any importance to such folly,--my
poor dear uncle would never hear of such a thing; but I am such a nervous creature, I should
lie awake all night expecting the rats to run over me.  I never knew of any one sleeping there,
except in the gay times when I was a child, and the house used to be as full as, or fuller
than, it could hold, for the hunt breakfast or a ball, and my poor aunt used to make up ever
so many beds in the two rooms, and then we never heard of any disturbance, except what they
made themselves.'

This chiefly concerned me, because home cosseting had made me old woman enough to be uneasy
about unaired beds; and I knew that my mother meant to consign Clarence to the mullion chamber.
So, without betraying Jane, I spoke to her, and was answered, 'Oh, sir, I'll take care of that;
I'll light a fire and air the mattresses well.  I wish that was all, poor young gentleman!'

To the reply that the rats were slaughtered and the wind stopped out, Jane returned a look
of compassion; but the subject was dropped, as it was supposed to be the right thing to hush
up, instead of fostering, any popular superstition; but it surprised me that, as all our servants
were fresh importations, they should so soon have become imbued with these undefined alarms.

My father was much amused at being successor to this family feud, and said that when he had
time he would look up the documents.

Mrs. Sophia was a sight when Mr. Fordyce and his son and daughter- in-law were announced; she
was so comically stiff between her deference to her hosts and her allegiance to her poor dear
uncle; but her coldness melted before the charms of old Mr. Fordyce, who was one of the most
delightful people in the world.  She even was his partner at whist, and won the game, and that
she DID like.

Parson Frank, as we naughty young ones called him, was all good- nature and geniality--a thorough
clergyman after the ideas of the time, and a thorough farmer too; and in each capacity, as
well as in politics, he suited my father or Mr. Henderson.  His lady, in a blonde cap, exactly
like the last equipment my mother had provided herself with in London, and a black satin dress,
had much more style than the more gaily-dressed country dames, and far more conversation. 
Mr. Stafford, who had dreaded the party, pronounced her a sensible, agreeable woman, and she
was particularly kind and pleasant to me, coming and talking over the botany of the country,
and then speaking of my brother's kindness to poor Amos Bell, who was nearly recovered, but
was a weakly child, for whom she dreaded the toil of a ploughboy in thick clay with heavy shoes.

I was sorry when, after Emily's well-studied performance on the piano, Mrs. Fordyce was summoned
away from me to sing, but her music and her voice were both of a very different order from
ordinary drawing-room music; and when our evening was over, we congratulated ourselves upon
our neighbours, and agreed that the Fordyces were the gems of the party.

Only Mrs. Sophia sighed at us as degenerate Winslows, and Emily reserved to herself the right
of believing that the daughter was 'a horrid girl.'

CHAPTER XIII--A SCRAPE

'Though bound with weakness' heavy chain We in the dust of earth remain; Not all remorseful
be our tears, No agony of shame or fears, Need pierce its passion's bitter tide.'

Verses and Sonnets.

Perhaps it was of set purpose that our dinner. party had been given before Clarence's return.
Griffith had been expected in time for it, but he had preferred going by way of London to attend
a ball given by the daughter of a barrister friend of my father's.  Selina Clarkson was a fine
showy girl, with the sort of beauty to inspire boyish admiration, and Griff's had been a standing
family joke, even my father condescending to tease him when the young lady married Sir Henry
Peacock, a fat vulgar old man who had made his fortune in the commissariat, and purchased a
baronetcy.  He was allowing his young wife her full swing of fashion and enjoyment.  My mother
did not think it a desirable acquaintance, and was restless until both the brothers came home
together, long after dark on Christmas Eve, having been met by the gig at the corner where
the coach stopped. The dinner-hour had been put off till half-past six, and we had to wait
for them, the coach having been delayed by setting down Christmas guests and Christmas fare.
They were a contrast; Griffith looking very handsome and manly, all in a ruddy glow from the
frosty air, and Clarence, though equally tall, well-made, and with more refined features, looked
pale and effaced, now that his sailor tan was worn off.  The one talked as eagerly as he ate,
the other was shy, spiritless, and with little appetite; but as he always shrank into himself
among strangers, it was the less wonder that he sat in his drooping way behind my sofa, while
Griffith kept us all merry with his account of the humours of the 'Peacock at home;' the lumbering
efforts of old Sir Henry to be as young and gay as his wife, in spite of gout and portliness;
and the extreme delight of his lady in her new splendours--a gold spotted muslin and white
plumes in a diamond agraffe.  He mimicked Sir Henry's cockneyisms more than my father's chivalry
approved towards his recent host, as he described the complaints he had heard against 'my Lady
being refused the hentry at Halmack's, but treated like the wery canal;' and how the devoted
husband 'wowed he would get up a still more hexclusive circle, and shut hout these himpertinent
fashionables who regarded Halmack's as the seventh 'eaven.'

My mother shook her head at his audacious fun about Paradise and the Peri, but he was so brilliant
and good-humoured that no one was ever long displeased with him.  At night he followed when
Clarence helped me to my room, and carefully shutting the door, Griff began.  'Now, Teddy,
you're always as rich as a Jew, and I told Bill you'd help him to set it straight.  I'd do
it myself, but that I'm cleaned out. I'd give ten times the cash rather than see him with that
hang-dog look again for just nothing at all, if he would only believe so and be rational.'

Clarence did look indescribably miserable while it was explained that he had been commissioned
to receive about 20 pounds which was owing to my father, and to discharge therewith some small
debts to London tradesmen.  All except the last, for a little more than four pounds, had been
paid, when Clarence met in the street an old messmate, a good-natured rattle-pated youth,--one
of those who had thought him harshly treated.  There was a cordial greeting, and an invitation
to dine at once at a hotel, where they were joined by some other young men, and by and by betook
themselves to cards, when my poor brother's besetting enemy prevented him from withdrawing
when he found the points were guineas.  Thus he lost the remaining amount in his charge, and
so much of his own that barely enough was left for his journey.  His salary was not due till
Lady Day; Mr. Castleford was in the country, and no advances could be asked from Mr. Frith.
Thus Griff had found him in utter despair, and had ever since been trying to cheer him and
make light of his trouble.  If I advanced the amount, which was no serious matter to me, Clarence
could easily get Peter to pay the bill, and if my father should demand the receipt too soon,
it would be easy to put him off by saying there had been a delay in getting the account sent in.

'I couldn't do that,' said Clarence.

'Well, I should not have thought you would have stuck at that,' returned Griff.

'There must be no untruth,' I broke in; 'but if without THAT, he can avoid getting into a scrape
with papa--'

Clarence interrupted in the wavering voice we knew so well, but growing clearer and stronger.

'Thank you, Edward, but--but--no, I can't.  There's the Sacrament to-morrow.'

'Oh--h!' said Griff, in an indescribable tone.  But he will never believe you, nor let you go.'

'Better so,' said Clarence, half choked, 'than go profanely-- deceiving--or not knowing whether
I shall--'

Just then we heard our father wishing the other gentlemen good- night, and to our surprise
Clarence opened the door, though he was deadly white and with dew starting on his forehead.

My father turned good-naturedly.  'Boys, boys, you are glad to be together, but mamma won't
have you talking here all night, keeping her baby up.'

'Sir,' said Clarence, holding by the rail of the bed, 'I was waiting for you.  I have something
to tell you--'

The words that followed were incoherent and wrong end foremost; nor had many, indeed, been
uttered before my father cut them short with -

'No false excuses, sir; I know you too well to listen.  Go.  I have ceased to hope for anything
better.'

Clarence went without a word, but Griff and I burst out with entreaties to be listened to.
Our father thought at first that ours were only the pleadings of partiality, and endeavours
to shield the brother we both so heartily loved; but when he understood the circumstances,
the real amount of the transgression, and Clarence's rejection of our united advice and assistance
to conceal it, he was greatly touched and softened.  'Poor lad! poor fellow!' he muttered,
'he is really doing his best.  I need not have cut him so short.  I was afraid of more falsehoods
if I let him open his mouth.  I'll go and see.'

He went off, and we remained in suspense, Griff observing that he had done his best, but poor
Bill always would be a fool, and that no one who had not always lived at home like me would
have let out that we had been for the suppression policy.  As I was rather shocked, he went
off to bed, saying he should look in to see what remained of Clarence after the pelting of
the pitiless storm he was sure to bring on himself by his ridiculous faltering instead of speaking
out like a man.

I longed to have been able to do the same, but my father kindly came back to relieve my mind
by telling me that he was better satisfied about Clarence than ever he had been before.  When
encouraged to speak out, the narrative of the temptation had so entirely agreed with what we
had said as to show there had been no prevarication, and this had done more to convince my
father that he was on the right track than the having found him on his knees.  He had had a
patient hearing, and thus was able to command his nerves enough to explain himself, and it
had ended in my father giving entire forgiveness for what, as Griff truly said, would have
been a mere trifle but for the past.  The voluntary confession had much impressed my father,
and he could not help adding a word of gentle reproof to me for having joined in aiding him
to withhold it, but he accepted my explanation and went away, observing, 'By the by, I don't
wonder at what Griffith says of that room; I never heard such strange effects of currents of air.'

Clarence was in my room before I was drest, full of our father's 'wonderful goodness' to him.
He had never experienced anything like it, he said.  'Why! he really seemed hopeful about me,'
were words uttered with a gladness enough to go to one's heart.  'O Edward, I feel as if there
was some chance of "steadfastly purposing" this time.'

It was not the way of the family to say much of religious feeling, and this was much for Clarence
to utter.  He looked white and tired, but there was an air of rest and peace about him, above
all when my mother met him with a very real kiss.  Moreover, Mr. Castleford had taken care
to brighten our Christmas with a letter expressive of great satisfaction with Clarence for
steadiness and intelligence. Even Mr. Frith allowed that he was the most punctual of all those
young dogs.

'I do believe,' said my father, 'that his piety is doing him some good after all.'

So our mutual wishes of a happy Christmas were verified, though not much according to the notions
of this half of the century.  People made their Christmas day either mere merriment, or something
little different from the grave Sunday of that date.  And ours, except for the Admiral's dining
with us, had always been of the latter description, all the more that when celebrations of
the Holy Communion were so rare they were treated with an awe and reverence which frequency
has perhaps diminished, and a feeling (possibly Puritanical) prevailed which made it appear
incongruous to end with festivity a day so begun.  That we had a Christmas Day Communion at
all at Earlscombe was an innovation only achieved by Mr. Henderson going to assist the old
Rector at Wattlesea; and there were no communicants except from our house, besides Chapman,
his daughter- in-law, and five old creatures between whom the alms were immediately divided.
We afterwards learnt that our best farmer and his wife were much disappointed at the change
from Sunday interfering with the family jollification; and Mrs. Sophia Selby was annoyed at
the contradiction to her habits under the rule of her poor dear uncle.

Of the irregularities, irreverences, and squalor of the whole I will not speak.  They were
not then such stumbling-blocks as they would be now, and many passed unperceived by us, buried
as we were in our big pew, with our eyes riveted on our books; yet even thus there was enough
evident to make my mother rejoice that Mr. Henderson would be with us before Easter.  Still
this could not mar the thankful gladness that was with us all that day, and which shone in
Clarence's eyes.  His countenance always had a remarkable expression in church, as if somehow
his spirit went farther than ours did, and things unseen were more real to him.

Hillside, as usual, had two services, and my father and his friend were going to walk thither
in the afternoon, but it was a raw cold day, threatening snow, and Emily was caught by my mother
in the hail and ordered back, as well as Clarence, who had shown symptoms of having caught
cold on his dismal journey.  Emily coaxed from her permission to have a fire in the bookroom,
and there we three had a memorably happy time.  We read our psalms and lessons, and our Christian
Year, which was more and more the lodestar of our feelings.  We compared our favourite passages,
and discussed the obscurer ones, and Clarence was led to talk out more of his heart than he
had ever shown to us before.  Perhaps he had lost some of his reserve through his intercourse
with our good old governess, Miss Newton, who was still grinding away at her daily mill, though
with somewhat failing eyesight, so that she could do nothing but knit in the long evenings,
and was most grateful to her former pupil for coming, as often as he could, to talk or read to her.

She was a most excellent and devout woman, and when Emily, who in youthful gaiete de coeur
had got a little tired of her, exclaimed at his taste, and asked if she made him read nothing
but Pike's Early Piety, he replied gravely, 'She showed me where to lay my burthen down,' and
turned to the two last verses of the poem for 'Good Friday' in the Christian Year, as well
as to the one we had just read on the Holy Communion.

My father's kindness had seemed to him the pledge of the Heavenly Father's forgiveness; and
he added, perhaps a little childishly, that it had been his impulse to promise never to touch
a card again, but that he dreaded the only too familiar reply, 'What availed his promises?'

'Do promise, Clarry!' cried Emily, 'and then you won't have to play with that tiresome old
Mrs. Sophia.'

'That would rather deter me,' said Clarence good-humouredly.

'A card-playing old age is despicable,' pronounced Miss Emily, much to our amusement.

After that we got into a bewilderment.  We knew nothing of the future question of temperance
versus total abstinence; but after it had been extracted that Miss Newton regarded cards as
the devil's books, the inconsistent little sister changed sides, and declared it narrow and
evangelical to renounce what was innocent.  Clarence argued that what might be harmless for
others might be dangerous for such as himself, and that his real difficulty in making even
a mental vow was that, if broken, there was an additional sin.

'It is not oneself that one trusts,' I said.

'No,' said Clarence emphatically; 'and setting up a vow seems as if it might be sticking up
the reed of one's own word, and leaning on THAT--when it breaks, at least mine does.  If I
could always get the grasp of Him that I felt to-day, there would be no more bewildered heart
and failing spirit, which are worse than the actual falls they cause.'  And as Emily said she
did not understand, he replied in words I wrote down and thought over, 'What we ARE is the
point, more than even what we DO.  We DO as we ARE; and yet we form ourselves by what we DO.'

'And,' I put in, 'I know somebody who won a victory last night over himself and his two brothers.
Surely DOING that is a sign that he IS more than he used to be.'

'If he were, it would not have been an effort at all,' said Clarence, but with his rare sweet
smile.

Just then Griff called him away, and Emily sat pondering and impressed.  'It did seem so odd,'
she said, 'that Clarry should be so much the best, and yet so much the worst of us.'

I agreed.  His insight into spiritual things, and his enjoyment of them, always humiliated
us both, yet he fell so much lower in practice,--'But then we had not his temptations.'

'Yes,' said Emily; 'but look at Griff!  He goes about like other young men, and keeps all right,
and yet he doesn't care about religious things a bit more than he can help.'

It was quite true.  Religion was life to the one and an insurance to the other, and this had
been a mystery to us all our young lives, as far as we had ever reflected on the contrast between
the practical failure and success of each.  Our mother, on the other hand, viewed Clarence's
tendencies as part of an unreal, self-deceptive nature, and regretted his intimacy with Miss
Newton, who, she said, had fostered 'that kind of thing' in his childhood--made him fancy talk,
feeling, and preaching were more than truth and honour--and might lead him to run after Irving,
Rowland Hill, or Baptist Noel, about whose tenets she was rather confused.  It would be an
additional misfortune if he became a fanatical Evangelical light, and he was just the character
to be worked upon.

My father held that she might be thankful for any good influence or safe resort for a young
man in lodgings in London, and he merely bade Clarence never resort to any variety of dissenting
preacher. We were of the school called--a little later--high and dry, but were strictly orthodox
according to our lights, and held it a prime duty to attend our parish church, whatever it
might be; nor, indeed, had Clarence swerved from these traditions.

Poor Mrs. Sophia was baulked of the game at whist, which she viewed as a legitimate part of
the Christmas pleasures; and after we had eaten our turkey, we found the evening long, except
that Martyn escaped to snapdragon with the servants; and, by and by, Chapman, magnificent in
patronage, ushered in the church singers into the hall, and clarionet, bassoon, and fiddle
astonished our ears.

For want of being able to take exercise, the first part of the night had always been sleepless
with me, though my dear mother thought it wrong to recognise the habit or allow me a lamp.
A fire, however, I had, and by its light, on the second night after Christmas, I saw my door
noiselessly opened, and Clarence creeping in half-dressed and barefooted.  To my frightened
interrogation the answer came, through chattering teeth, 'It's I--only I--Ted--no--nothing's
the matter, only I can't stand it any longer!'

His hands were cold as ice when he grasped mine, as if to get hold of something substantial,
and he trembled so as to shake the bed. 'That room,' he faltered.  ''Tis not only the moans!
I've seen her!'

'Whom?'

'I don't know.  There she stands with her lamp, crying!'  I could scarcely distinguish the
words through the clashing of his teeth, and as I threw my arms round him the shudder seemed
to pass to me; but I did my best to warm him by drawing the clothes over him, and he began
to gather himself together, and speak intelligibly.  There had been sounds the first night
as of wailing, but he had been too much preoccupied to attend to them till, soon after one
o'clock, they ended in a heavy fall and long shriek, after which all was still.  Christmas
night had been undisturbed, but on this the voices had begun again at eleven, and had a strangely
human sound; but as it was windy, sleety weather, and he had learnt at sea to disregard noises
in the rigging, he drew the sheet over his head and went to sleep.  'I was dreaming that I
was at sea,' he said, 'as I always do on a noisy night, but this was not a dream.  I was wakened
by a light in the room, and there stood a woman with a lamp, moaning and sobbing.  My first
notion was that one of the maids had come to call me, and I sat up; but I could not speak,
and she gave another awful suppressed cry, and moved towards that walled-up door.  Then I saw
it was none of the servants, for it was an antique dress like an old picture.  So I knew what
it must be, and an unbearable horror came over me, and I rushed into the outer room, where
there was a little fire left; but I heard her going on still, and I could endure it no longer.
I knew you would be awake and would bear with me, so I came down to you.'

Then this was what Chapman and the maids had meant.  This was Mrs. Sophia Selby's vulgar superstition!
I found that Clarence had heard none of the mysterious whispers afloat, and only knew that
Griff had deserted the room after his own return to London.  I related what I had learnt from
the old lady, and in that midnight hour we agreed that it could be no mere fancy or rumour,
but that cruel wrong must have been done in that chamber.  Our feeling was that all ought to
be made known, and in that impression we fell asleep, Clarence first.

By and by I found him moving.  He had heard the clock strike four, and thought it wiser to
repair to his own quarters, where he believed the disturbance was over.  Lucifer matches as
yet were not, but he had always been a noiseless being, with a sailor's foot, so that, by the
help of the moonlight through the hall windows, he regained his room.

And when morning had come, the nocturnal visitation wore such a different aspect to both our
minds that we decided to say nothing to our parents, who, said Clarence, would simply disbelieve
him; and, indeed, I inclined to suppose it had been an uncommonly vivid dream, produced in
that sensitive nature by the uncanny sounds of the wind in the chinks and crannies of the ancient
chamber.  Had not Scott's Demonology and Witchcraft, which we studied hard on that day, proved
all such phantoms to be explicable?  The only person we told was Griff, who was amused and
incredulous.  He had heard the noises--oh yes! and objected to having his sleep broken by them.
It was too had to expose Clarence to them--poor Bill--on whom they worked such fancies!

He interrogated Chapman, however, but probably in that bantering way which is apt to produce
reserve.  Chapman never 'gave heed to them fictious tales,' he said; but, when hard pressed,
he allowed that he had 'heerd that a lady do walk o' winter nights,' and that was why the garden
door of the old rooms was walled up.  Griff asked if this was done for fear she should catch
cold, and this somewhat affronted him, so that he averred that he knew nought about it, and
gave no thought to such like.

Just then they arrived at the Winslow Arms, and took each a glass of ale, when Griff, partly
to tease Chapman, asked the landlady--an old Chantry House servant--whether she had ever met
the ghost.  She turned rather pale, which seemed to have impressed him, and demanded if he
had seen it.  'It always walked at Christmas time--between then and the New Year.'  She had
once seen a light in the garden by the ruin in winter-time, and once last spring it came along
the passage, but that was just before the old Squire was took for death,--folks said that was
always the way before any of the family died--'if you'll excuse it, sir.'  Oh no, she thought
nothing of such things, but she had heard tell that the noises were such at all times of the
year that no one could sleep in the rooms, but the light wasn't to be seen except at Christmas.

Griff with the philosophy of a university man, was certain that all was explained by Clarence
having imbibed the impression of the place being haunted; and going to sleep nervous at the
noises, his brain had shaped a phantom in accordance.  Let Clarence declare as he might that
the legends were new to him, Griff only smiled to think how easily people forgot, and he talked
earnestly about catching ideas without conscious information.

However, he volunteered to sit up that night to ascertain the exact causes of the strange noises
and convince Clarence that they were nothing but the effects of draughts.  The fire in his
gunroom was surreptitiously kept up to serve for the vigil, which I ardently desired to share.
It was an enterprise; it would gratify my curiosity; and besides, though Griffith was good-natured
and forbearing in a general way towards Clarence, I detected a spirit of mockery about him
which might break out unpleasantly when poor Clarry was convicted of one of his unreasonable
panics.

Both brothers were willing to gratify me, the only difficulty being that the tap of my crutches
would warn the entire household of the expedition.  However, they had--all unknown to my mother--several
times carried me about queen's cushion fashion, as, being always much of a size, they could
do most handily; and as both were now fine, strong, well-made youths of twenty and nineteen,
they had no doubt of easily and silently conveying me up the shallow-stepped staircase when
all was quiet for the night.

Emily, with her sharp ears, guessed that something was in hand, but we promised her that she
should know all in time.  I believe Griff, being a little afraid of her quickness, led her
to suppose he was going to hold what he called a symposium in his rooms, and to think it a
mystery of college life not intended for young ladies.

He really had prepared a sort of supper for us when, after my father's resounding turn of the
key of the drawing-room door, my brothers, in their stocking soles, bore me upstairs, the fun
of the achievement for the moment overpowering all sense of eeriness. Griff said he could not
receive me in his apartment without doing honour to the occasion, and that Dutch courage was
requisite for us both; but I suspect it was more in accordance with Oxford habits that he had
provided a bottle of sherry and another of ale, some brandy cherries, bread, cheese, and biscuits,
by what means I do not know, for my mother always locked up the wine.  He was disappointed
that Clarence would touch nothing, and declared that inanition was the preparation for ghost-seeing
or imagining.  I drank his health in a glass of sherry as I looked round at the curious old
room, with its panelled roof, the heraldic devices and badges of the Power family, and the
trophy of swords, dirks, daggers, and pistols, chiefly relics of our naval grandfather, but
reinforced by the sword, helmet, and spurs of the county Yeomanry which Griff had joined.

Griff proposed cards to drive away fancies, especially as the sounds were beginning; but though
we generally yielded to him we COULD not give our attention to anything but these.  There was
first a low moan.  'No great harm in that,' said Griff; 'it comes through that crack in the
wainscot where there is a sham window.  Some putty will put a stop to that.'

Then came a more decided wail and sob much nearer to us.  Griff hastily swallowed the ale in
his tumbler, and, striking a theatrical attitude, exclaimed, 'Angels and ministers of grace
defend us!'

Clarence held up his hand in deprecation.  The door into his bedroom was open, and Griff, taking
up one of the flat candlesticks, pursued his researches, holding the flame to all chinks or
cracks in the wainscotting to detect draughts which might cause the dreary sounds, which were
much more like suppressed weeping than any senseless gust of wind.  Of draughts there were
many, and he tried holding his hand against each crevice to endeavour to silence the wails;
but these became more human and more distressful.  There!  By the press--look!'

'I see a patch of moonlight on the wall,' said Griff.

'Moonlight--her lamp.  Edward, don't you see her?'

I could see nothing but a spot of light on the wall.  Griff (plainly putting a force on himself)
came back and gave him a good-natured shake.  'Dreaming again, old Bill.  Wake up and come
to your senses.'

'I am as much in my senses as you are,' said Clarence.  'I see her as plainly as I see you.'

Nor could any one doubt either the reality of the awe in his voice and countenance, nor of
the light--a kind of hazy ball--nor of the choking sobs.

'What is she like?' I asked, holding his hand, for, though infected by his dread, my fears
were chiefly for the effect on him; but he was much calmer and less horror-struck than on the
previous night, though still he shuddered as he answered in a low voice, as if loth to describe
a lady in her presence, 'A dark cloak with the hood fallen back, a kind of lace headdress loosely
fastened, brown hair, thin white face, eyes--oh, poor thing!--staring with fright, dark-- oh,
how swollen the lids! all red below with crying--black dress with white about it--a widow kind
of look--a glove on the arm with the lamp.  Is she beckoning--looking at us?  Oh, you poor
thing, if I could tell what you mean!'

I felt the motion of his muscles in act to rise, and grasped him. Griff held him with a strong
hand, hoarsely crying, 'Don't!--don't-- don't follow the thing, whatever you do!'

Clarence hid his face.  It was very awful and strange.  Once the thought of conjuring her to
speak by the Holy Name crossed me, but then I saw no figure; and with incredulous Griffith
standing by, it would have been like playing, nor perhaps could I have spoken.  How long this
lasted there is no knowing; but presently the light moved towards the walled-up door and seemed
to pass into it.  Clarence raised his head and said she was gone.  We breathed freely.

'The farce is over,' said Griff.  'Mr. Edward Winslow's carriage stops the way!'

I was hoisted up, candle in hand, between the two, and had nearly reached the stairs when there
came up on the garden side a sound as of tipsy revellers in the garden.  'The scoundrels! how
can they have got in?' cried Griff, looking towards the window; but all the windows on that
side had peculiarly heavy shutters and bars, with only a tiny heart-shaped aperture very high
up, so they somewhat hurried their steps downstairs, intending to rush out on the intruders
from the back door.  But suddenly, in the middle of the staircase, we heard a terrible heartrending
woman's shriek, making us all start and have a general fall.  My brothers managed to seat me
safely on a step without much damage to themselves, but the candle fell and was extinguished,
and we made too heavy a weight to fall without real noise enough to bring the household together
before we could pick ourselves up in the dark.

We heard doors opening and hurried calls, and something about pistols, impelling Griff to call
out, 'It's nothing, papa; but there are some drunken rascals in the garden.'

A light had come by this time, and we were detected.  There was a general sally upon the enemy
in the garden before any one thought of me, except a 'You here!' when they nearly fell over
me.  And there I was left sitting on the stair, helpless without my crutches, till in a few
minutes all returned declaring there was nothing--no signs of anything; and then as Clarence
ran up to me with my crutches my father demanded the meaning of my being there at that time
of night.

'Well, sir,' said Griff, 'it is only that we have been sitting up to investigate the ghost.'

'Ghost!  Arrant stuff and nonsense!  What induced you to be dragging Edward about in this dangerous
way?'

'I wished it,' said I.

'You are all mad together, I think.  I won't have the house disturbed for this ridiculous folly.
I shall look into it to- morrow!'

CHAPTER XV--RATIONAL THEORIES

'These are the reasons, they are natural.'

Julius Caesar.

If anything could have made our adventure more unpleasant to Mr. and Mrs. Winslow, it would
have been the presence of guests.  However, inquiry was suppressed at breakfast, in deference
to the signs my mother made to enjoin silence before the children, all unaware that Emily was
nearly frantic with suppressed curiosity, and Martyn knew more about the popular version of
the legend than any of us.

Clarence looked wan and heavy-eyed.  His head was aching from a bump against the edge of a
step, and his cold was much worse; no wonder, said my mother; but she was always softened by
any ailment, and feared that the phantoms were the effect of coming illness.  I have always
thought that if Clarence could have come home from his court- martial with a brain fever he
would have earned immediate forgiveness; but unluckily for him, he was a very healthy person.

All three of us were summoned to the tribunal in the study, where my father and my mother sat
in judgment on what they termed 'this preposterous business.'  In our morning senses our impressions
were much more vague than at midnight, and we betrayed some confusion; but Griff and I had
a strong instinct of sheltering Clarence, and we stoutly declared the noises to be beyond the
capacities of wind, rats, or cats; that the light was visible and inexplicable; and that though
we had seen nothing else, we could not doubt that Clarence did.

'Thought he did,' corrected my father.

'Without discussing the word,' said Griff, 'I mean that the effect on his senses was the same
as the actual sight.  You could not look at him without being certain.'

'Exactly so,' returned my mother.  'I wish Dr. Fellowes were near.'

Indeed nothing saved Clarence from being consigned to medical treatment but the distance from
Bath or Bristol, and the contradictory advice that had been received from our county neighbours
as to our family doctor.  However, she formed her theory that his nervous imaginings--whether
involuntary or acted, she hoped the former, and wished she could be sure--had infected us;
and, as she was really uneasy about him, she would not let him sleep in the mullion room, but
having nowhere else to bestow him, she turned out the man-servant and put him into the little
room beyond mine, and she also forbade any mention of the subject to him that day.

This was a sore prohibition to Emily, who had been discussing it with the other ladies, and
was in a mingled state of elation at the romance, and terror at the supernatural, which found
vent in excited giggle, and moved Griff to cram her with raw-head and bloody-bone horrors,
conventional enough to be suspicious, and send her to me tearfully to entreat to know the truth.
If by day she exulted in a haunted chamber, in the evening she paid for it by terrors at walking
about the house alone, and, when sent on an errand by my mother, looked piteous enough to be
laughed at or scolded on all sides.

The gentlemen had more serious colloquies, and the upshot was a determination to sit up together
and discover the origin of the annoyance.  Mr. Stafford's antiquarian researches had made him
familiar with such mysteries, and enough of them had been explained by natural causes to convince
him that there was a key to all the rest.  Owls, coiners, and smugglers had all been convicted
of simulating ghosts.  In one venerable mansion, behind the wainscot, there had been discovered
nine skeletons of cats in different stages of decay, having trapped themselves at various intervals
of time, and during the gradual extinction of their eighty-one lives having emitted cries enough
to establish the ghastly reputation of the place.  Perhaps Mr. Henderson was inclined to believe
there were more things in heaven and earth than were dreamt of in even an antiquary's philosophy.
He owned himself perplexed, but reserved his opinion.

At breakfast Clarence was quite well, except for the remains of his sore throat, and the two
seniors were gruff and brief as to their watch.  They had heard odd noises, and should discover
the cause; the carpenter had already been sent for, and they had seen a light which was certainly
due to reflection or refraction.  Mr. Henderson committed himself to nothing but that 'it was
very extraordinary;' and there was a wicked look of diversion on Griff's face, and an exchange
of glances.  Afterwards, in our own domain, we extracted a good deal more from them.

Griff told us how the two elders started on politics, and denounced Brougham and O'Connell
loud enough to terrify any save the most undaunted ghost, till Henderson said 'Hush!' and they
paused at the moan with which the performance always commenced, making Mr. Stafford turn, as
Griff said, 'white in the gills,' though he talked of the wind on the stillest of frosty nights.
Then came the sobbing and wailing, which certainly overawed them all; Henderson called them
'agonising,' but Griff was in a manner inured to this, and felt as if master of the ceremonies.
Let them say what they would by daylight about owls, cats, and rats, they owned the human element
then, and were far from comfortable, though they would not compromise their good sense by owning
what both their younger companions had perceived--their feeling of some undefinable presence.
Vain attempts had been made to account for the light or get rid of it by changing the position
of candles or bright objects in the outer room; and Henderson had shut himself into the bedroom
with it; but there he still only saw the hazy light--though all was otherwise pitch dark, except
the keyhole and the small gray patch of sky at the top of the window-shutters.  'You saw nothing
else?' said Griff.  'I thought I heard you break out as Clarence did, just before my father
opened the door.'

'Perhaps I did so.  I had the sense strongly on me of some being in grievous distress very
near me.'

'And you should have power over it,' suggested Emily.

'I am afraid,' he said, 'that more thorough conviction and comprehension are needed before
I could address the thing with authority.  I should like to have stayed longer and heard the
conclusion.'

For Mr. Stafford had grown impatient and weary, and my father having satisfied himself that
there was something to be detected, would not remain to the end, and not only carried his companions
off, but locked the doors, perhaps expecting to imprison some agent in a trick, and find him
in the morning.

Indeed Clarence had a dim remembrance of having been half wakened by some one looking in on
him in the night, when he was sleeping heavily after his cold and the previous night's disturbance,
and we suspected, though we would not say, that our father might have wished to ascertain that
he had no share in producing these appearances.  He was, however, fully acquitted of all wilful
deception in the case, and he was not surprised, though he was disappointed, that his vision
of the lady was supposed to be the consequence of excited imagination.

'I can't help it,' he said to me in private.  'I have always seen or felt, or whatever you
may call it, things that others do not.  Don't you remember how nobody would believe that I
saw Lucy Brooke?'

'That was in the beginning of the measles.'

' I know; and I will tell you something curious.  When I was at Gibraltar I met Mrs. Emmott--'

'Mary Brooke?'

'Yes; I spent a very happy Sunday with her.  We talked over old times, and she told me that
Lucy had all through her illness been very uneasy about having promised to bring me a macaw's
feather the next time we played in the Square gardens.  It could not be sent to me for fear
of carrying the infection, but the dear girl was too light-headed to understand, and kept on
fretting and wandering about breaking her word.  I have no doubt the wish carried her spirit
to me the moment it was free,' he added, with tears springing to his eyes.  He also said that
before the court-martial he had, night after night, dreams of sinking and drowning in huge
waves, and his friend Coles struggling to come to his aid, but being forcibly withheld; and
he had since learnt that Coles had actually endeavoured to come from Plymouth to bear testimony
to his previous character, but had been refused leave, and told that he could do no good.

There had been other instances of perception of a presence and of a prescient foreboding. 
'It is like a sixth sense,' he said, 'and a very uncomfortable one.  I would give much to be
rid of it, for it is connected with all that is worst in my life.  I had it before Navarino,
when no one expected an engagement.  It made me believe I should be killed, and drove me to
what was much worse--or at least I used to think so.'

'Don't you now?' I asked.

'No,' said Clarence.  'It was a great mercy that I did not die then. There's something to conquer
first.  But you'll never speak of this, Ted.  I have left off telling of such things--it only
gives another reason for disbelieving me.'

However, this time his veracity was not called in question,--but he was supposed to be under
a hallucination, the creation of the noises acting on his imagination and memory of the persecuted
widow, which must have been somewhere dormant in his mind, though he averred that he had never
heard of it.  It had now, however, made a strong impression on him; he was convinced that some
crime or injustice had been perpetrated, and thought it ought to be investigated; but Griffith
made us laugh at his championship of this shadow of a shade, and even wrote some mock heroic
verses about it,--nor would it have been easy to stir my father to seek for the motives of
an apparition which no one in the family save Clarence professed to have seen.

The noises were indisputable, but my mother began to suspect a cause for them.  To oblige a
former cook we had brought down with us as stable-boy her son, George Sims, an imp accustomed
to be the pet and jester of a mews.  Martyn was only too fond of his company, and he made no
secret of his contempt for the insufferable dulness of the country, enlivening it by various
acts of monkey-mischief, in some of which Martyn had been implicated.  That very afternoon,
as Mrs. Sophia Selby was walking home in the twilight from Chapman's lodge, in company with
Mr. Henderson, an eldritch yell proceeding from the vaults beneath the mullion chambers nearly
frightened her into fits. Henderson darted in and captured the two boys in the fact.  Martyn's
asseveration that he had taken the pair for Griff and Emily would have pacified the good-natured
clergyman, but Mrs. Sophia was too much agitated, or too spiteful, as we declared, not to make
a scene.

Martyn spent the evening alone and in disgrace, and only his unimpeachable character for truth
caused the acceptance of his affirmation that the yell was an impromptu fraternal compliment,
and that he had nothing to do with the noises in the mullion chamber. He had been supposed
to be perfectly unconscious of anything of the kind, and to have never so much as heard of
a phantom, so my mother was taken somewhat aback when, in reply to her demand whether he had
ever been so naughty as to assist George in making a noise in Clarence's room, he said, 'Why,
that's the ghost of the lady that was murdered atop of the steps, and always walks every Christmas!'

'Who told you such ridiculous nonsense?'

The answer 'George' was deemed conclusive that all had been got up by that youth; and there
was considerable evidence of his talent for ventriloquism and taste for practical jokes.  My
mother was certain that, having heard of the popular superstition, he had acted ghost. She
appealed to Woodstock to prove the practicability of such feats; and her absolute conviction
persuaded the maids (who had given warning en masse) that the enemy was exorcised when George
Sims had been sent off on the Royal Mail under Clarence's guardianship.

None of the junior part of the family believed him guilty, but he had hunted the cows round
the paddock, mounted on my donkey, had nearly shot the kitchen-maid with Griff's gun, and,
if not much maligned, knew the way to the apple-chamber only too well,--so that he richly deserved
his doom, rejoiced in it himself, and was unregretted save by Martyn.  Clarence viewed him
in the light of a victim, and tried to keep an eye on him, but he developed his talent as a
ventriloquist, made his fortune, and retired on a public-house.

My mother would fain have had the vaults under the mullion rooms bricked up, but Mr. Stafford
cried out on the barbarism of such a proceeding.  The mystery was declared to be solved, and
was added to Mr. Stafford's good stories of haunted houses.

And at home my father forbade any further mention of such rank folly and deception.  The inner
mullion chamber was turned into a lumber- room, and as weeks passed by without hearing or seeing
any more of lady or of lamp, we began to credit the wonderful freaks of the goblin page.

CHAPTER XVI--CAT LANGUAGE

Soon as she parted thence--the fearful twayne, That blind old woman and her daughter deare,
Came forth, and finding Kirkrapine there slayne, For anguish greate they gan to rend their
heare And beate their breasts, and naked flesh to teare; And when they both had wept and wayled
their fill, Then forth they ran, like two amazed deere, Half mad through malice and revenging
will, To follow her that was the causer of their ill.'

SPENSER.

The Christmas vacation was not without another breeze about Griffith's expenses at Oxford.
He held his head high, and declared that people expected something from the eldest son of a
man of property, and my father tried to convince him that a landed estate often left less cash
available than did the fixed salary of an office.  Griff treated all in his light, good-humoured
way, promised to be careful, and came to me to commiserate the poor old gentleman's ignorance
of the ways of the new generation.

There ensued some trying weeks of dark days, raw frost, and black east wind, when the home
party cast longing, lingering recollections back to the social intercourse, lamp-lit streets,
and ready interchange of books and other amenities we had left behind us.  We were not accustomed
to have our nearest neighbours separated from us by two miles of dirty lane, or road mended
with excruciating stones, nor were they very congenial when we did see them.  The Fordyce family
might be interesting, but we younger ones could not forget the slight to Clarence, and, besides,
the girls seemed to be entirely in the schoolroom, Mrs. Fordyce was delicate and was shut up
all the winter, and the only intercourse that took place was when my father met the elder Mr.
Fordyce at the magistrates' bench; also there was a conference about Amos Bell, who was preferred
to the post left vacant by George Sims, in right of his being our tenant, but more civilised
than Earlscombers, a widow's son, and not sufficiently recovered from his accident to be exposed
to the severe tasks of a ploughboy in the winter.

Mrs. Fordyce was the manager of a book-club, which circulated volumes covered in white cartridge
paper, with a printed list of the subscribers' names.  Two volumes at a time might be kept
for a month by each member in rotation, novels were excluded, and the manager had a veto on
all orders.  We found her more liberal than some of our other neighbours, who looked on our
wants and wishes with suspicion as savouring of London notions.  Happily we could read old
books and standard books over again, and we gloated over Blackwood and the Quarterly, enjoying,
too, every out-of-door novelty of the coming spring, as each revealed itself.  Emily will never
forget her first primroses, nor I the first thrush in early morning.

Blankets, broth, and what were uncomfortably termed broken victuals had been given away during
the winter, and a bewildering amount of begging women and children used to ask interviews with
'the Lady Winslow,' with stories that crumbled on investigation so as to make us recollect
the Rector's character of Earlscombe.

However, Mr. Henderson came in the second week of Lent, and what our steps towards improvement
introduced would have seemed almost as shocking to you youngsters, as what they displaced.
For instance, a plain crimson cloth covered the altar, instead of the rags in the colours of
the Winslow livery, presented, according to the queer old register, by the unfortunate Margaret.
There was talk of velvet and the gold monogram, surrounded by rays, alternately straight and
wavy, as in our London church, but this was voted 'unfit for a plain village church.'  Still,
the new hangings of pulpit, desk, and altar were all good in quality and colour, and huge square
cushions were provided as essential to each.  Moreover, the altar vessels were made somewhat
more respectable,--all this being at my father's expense.

He also carried in the Vestry, though not without strong opposition from a dissenting farmer,
that new linen and a fresh surplice should be provided by the parish, which surplice would
have made at least six of such as are at present worn.  The farmers were very jealous of the
interference of the Squire in the Vestry--'what he had no call to,' and of church rates applied
to any other object than the reward of birdslayers, as thus, in the register -

Hairy Wills, 1 score sprows heds 2d. Jems Brown, 1 poulcat 6d. Jarge Bell, 2 howls 6d.

It was several years before this appropriation of the church rates could be abolished.  The
year 1830, with a brand new squire and parson, was too ticklish a time for many innovations.

Hillside Church was the only one in the neighbourhood where Holy Week or Ascension Day had
been observed in the memory of man.  When we proposed going to church on the latter day the
gardener asked my mother 'if it was her will to keep Thursday holy,' as if he expected its
substitution for Sunday.  Monthly Communions and Baptisms after the Second Lesson were viewed
as 'not fit for a country church,' and every attempt at even more secular improvements was
treated with the most disappointing distrust and aversion.  When my father laid out the allotment
grounds, the labourers suspected some occult design for his own profit, and the farmers objected
that the gardens would be used as an excuse for neglecting their work and stealing their potatoes.
Coal-club and clothing-club were regarded in like manner, and while a few took advantage of
these offers in a grudging manner, the others viewed everything except absolute gifts as 'me-an'
on our part, the principle of aid to self-help being an absolute novelty. When I look back
to the notes in our journals of that date I see how much has been overcome.

Perhaps we listened more than was strictly wise to the revelations of Amos Bell, when he attended
Emily and me on our expeditions with the donkey.  Though living over the border of Hillside,
he had a family of relations at Earlscombe, and for a time lodged with his grandmother there.
When his shyness and lumpishness gave way, he proved so bright that Emily undertook to carry
on his education.  He soon had a wonderful eye for a wild flower, and would climb after it
with the utmost agility; and when once his tongue was loosed, he became almost too communicative,
and made us acquainted with the opinions of 'they Earlscoom folk' with a freedom not to be
found in an elder or a native.

Moreover, he was the brightest light of the Sunday school which Mr. Henderson opened at once--for
want of a more fitting place--in the disused north transept of the church.  It was an uncouth,
ill-clad crew which assembled on those dilapidated paving tiles.  Their own grandchildren look
almost as far removed from them in dress and civilisation as did my sister in her white worked
cambric dress, silk scarf, huge Tuscan bonnet, and the little curls beyond the lace quilling
round her bright face, far rosier than ever it had been in town.  And what would the present
generation say to the odd little contrivances in the way of cotton sun-bonnets, check pinafores,
list tippets, and print capes, and other wonderful manufactures from the rag-bag, which were
then grand prizes and stimulants?

Previous knowledge or intelligence scarcely existed, and then was not due to Dame Dearlove's
tuition.  Mr. Henderson pronounced an authorised school a necessity.  My father had scruples
as to vested rights, for the old woman was the last survivor of a family who had had recourse
to primer and hornbook after their ejection on 'black Bartholomew's Day;' and when the meeting-house
was built after the Revolution, had combined preaching with teaching.  Monopoly had promoted
degeneracy, and this last of the race was an unfavourable specimen in all save outward picturesqueness.
However, much against Henderson's liking, an accommodation was proposed, by which books were
to be supplied to her, and the Church Catechism be taught in her school, with the assistance
of the curate and Miss Winslow.

The terms were rejected with scorn.  No School Board could be more determined against the Catechism,
nor against 'passons meddling wi' she;' and as to assistance, 'she had been a governess this
thirty year, and didn't want no one trapesing in and out of her school.'

She was warned, but probably did not believe in the possibility of an opposition school; and
really there were children enough in the place to overfill both her room and that which was
fitted up after a very humble fashion in one of our cottages.  H.M. Inspector would hardly
have thought it even worth condemnation any more than the attainments of the mistress, the
young widow of a small Bristol skipper.  Her qualifications consisted in her piety and conscientiousness,
good temper and excellent needlework, together with her having been a scholar in one of Mrs.
Hannah More's schools in the Cheddar district.  She could read and teach reading well; but
as for the dangerous accomplishments of writing and arithmetic, such as desired to pass beyond
the rudiments of them must go to Wattlesea.

So nice did she look in her black that Earlscombe voted her a mere town lady, and even at a
penny a week hesitated to send its children to her.  Indeed it was currently reported that
her school was part of a deep and nefarious scheme of the gentlefolks for reducing the poor-rates
by enticing the children, and then shipping them off to foreign parts from Bristol.

But the great crisis was one unlucky summer evening when Emily and I were out with the donkey,
and Griffith, just come home from Oxford, was airing the new acquisition of a handsome black
retriever.

Close by the old chapel, a black cat was leisurely crossing the road.  At her dashed Nero,
stimulated perhaps by an almost involuntary scss--scss--from his master, if not from Amos and
me. The cat flew up a low wall, and stood at bay on the top on tiptoe, with bristling tail,
arched back, and fiery eyes, while the dog danced round in agony on his hind legs, barking
furiously, and almost reaching her.  Female sympathy ever goes to the cat, and Emily screamed
out in the fear that he would seize her, or even that Griff might aid him.  Perhaps Amos would
have done so, if left to himself; but Griff, who saw the cat was safe, could not help egging
on his dog's impotent rage, when in the midst, out flew pussy's mistress, Dame Dearlove herself,
broomstick in hand, using language as vituperative as the cat's, and more intelligible.

She was about to strike the dog--indeed I fancy she did, for there was a howl, and Griff sprang
to his defence with--'Don't hurt my dog, I say!  He hasn't touched the brute!  She can take
care of herself.  Here, there's half-a-crown for the fright,' as the cat sprang down within
the wall, and Nero slunk behind him.  But Dame Dearlove was not so easily appeased.  Her blood
was up after our long series of offences, and she broke into a regular tirade of abuse.

'That's the way with you fine folk, thinking you can tread down poor people like the dirt under
your feet, and insult 'em when you've taken the bread out of the mouths of them that were here
before you. Passons and ladies a meddin' where no one ever set a foot before! Ay, ay, but ye'll
all be down before long.'

Griff signed to us to go on, and thundered out on her to take care what she was about and not
be abusive; but this brought a fresh volley on him, heralded by a derisive laugh.  'Ha! ha!
fine talking for the likes of you, Winslows that you are.  But there's a curse on you all!
The poor lady as was murdered won't let you be!  Why, there's one of you, poor humpy object--'

At this savage attack on me, Griff waxed furious, and shouted at her to hold her confounded
tongue, but this only diverted the attack on himself.  'And as for you--fine chap as ye think
yourself, swaggering and swearing at poor folk, and setting your dog at them-- your time's
coming.  Look out for yourself.  It's well known as how the curse is on the first-born.  The
Lady Margaret don't let none of 'em live to come after his father.'

Griff laughed and said, 'There, we have had enough of this;' and in fact we had already moved
on, so that he had to make some long steps to overtake us, muttering, 'So we've started a Meg
Merrilies!  My father won't keep such a foul-mouthed hag in the parish long!'

To which I had to respond that her cottage belonged to the trustees of the chapel, whereat
he whistled.  I don't think he knew that we had heard her final denunciation, and we did not
like to mention it to him, scarcely to each other, though Emily looked very white and scared.

We talked it over afterwards in private, and with Henderson, who confessed that he had heard
of the old woman's saying something of the kind to other persons.  We consulted the registers
in hopes of confuting it, but did not satisfy ourselves.  The last Squire had lost his only
son at school.  He himself had been originally second in the family, and in the generation
before him there had been some child-deaths, after which we came back to a young man, apparently
the eldest, who, according to Miss Selby's story, had been killed in a duel by one of the Fordyces.
It was not comfortable, till I remembered that our family Bible recorded the birth, baptism,
and death of a son who had preceded Griffith, and only borne for a day the name afterwards
bestowed on me.

And Henderson, who was so little our elder as to discuss things on fairly equal grounds, had
some very interesting talks with us two over ancestral sin and its possible effects, dwelling
on the 18th of Ezekiel as a comment on the Second Commandment.  Indeed, we agreed that the
uncomfortable state of disaffection which, in 1830, was becoming only too manifest in the populace,
was the result of neglect in former ages, and that, even in our own parish, the bitterness,
distrust, and ingratitude were due to the careless, riotous, and oppressive family whom we
represented.

CHAPTER XVII--THE SIEGE OF HILLSIDE

'Ferments arise, imprisoned factions roar, Represt ambition struggles round the shore; Till,
overwrought, the general system feels Its motion stop, or frenzy fire the wheels.'

GOLDSMITH.

Griffith had come straight home this year.  There were no Peacock gaieties to tempt him in
London, for old Sir Henry had died suddenly soon after the ball in December; nor was there
much of a season that year, owing to the illness and death of George IV.

A regiment containing two old schoolmates of his was at Bristol, and he spent a good deal of
time there, and also in Yeomanry drill.  As autumn came on we rejoiced in having so stalwart
a protector, for the agricultural riots had begun, and the forebodings of another French Revolution
seemed about to be realised.  We stayed on at Chantry House.  My father thought his duty lay
there as a magistrate, and my mother would not leave him; nor indeed was any other place much
safer, certainly not London, whence Clarence wrote accounts of formidable mobs who were expected
to do more harm than they accomplished; though their hatred of the hero of our country filled
us with direful prognostications, and made us think of the guillotine, which was linked with
revolution in our minds, before we had I beheld the numerous changes that followed upon the
thirty years of peace in which we grew up.

The ladies did not much like losing so stalwart a defender when Griff returned to Oxford; and
Jane the housemaid went to bed every night with the pepper-pot and a poker, the first wherewith
to blind the enemy, the second to charge them with.  From our height we could more than once
see blazing ricks, and were glad that the home farm was not in our own hands, and that our
only stack of hay was a good way from the house.  When the onset came at last, it was December,
and the enemy only consisted of about thirty dreary-looking men and boys in smock-frocks and
chalked or smutted faces, armed only with sticks and an old gun diverted from its purpose of
bird-scaring. They shouted for food, money, and arms; but my father spoke to them from the
hall steps, told them they had better go home and learn that the public-house was a worse enemy
to them than any machine that had ever been invented, and assured them that they would get
no help from him in breaking the laws and getting themselves into trouble.  A stone or two
was picked up, whereupon he went back and had the hall door shut and barred, the heavy shutters
of the windows having all been closed already, so that we could have stood a much more severe
siege than from these poor fellows.  One or two windows were broken, as well as the glass of
the conservatory, and the flower beds were trampled; but finding our fortress impregnable they
sneaked away before dark.  We fared better than our neighbours, some of whom were seriously
frightened, and suffered loss of property. Old Mr. Fordyce had for many years past been an
active magistrate-- that a clergyman should be on the bench having been quite correct according
to the notions of his younger days; and in spite of his beneficence he incurred a good deal
of unpopularity for withstanding the lax good-nature which made his brother magistrates give
orders for parish relief refused to able-bodied paupers by their own Vestries.  This was a
mischievous abuse of the old poor-law times, which made people dispose of every one's money
save their own.  He had also been a keen sportsman; and though his son had given up field sports
in deference to higher notions of clerical duty (his wife's, as people said), the old man's
feeling prompted him to severity on poachers.  Frank Fordyce, while by far the most earnest,
hardworking clergyman in the neighbourhood, worked off his superfluous energy on scientific
farming, making the glebe and the hereditary estate as much the model farm as Hillside was
the model parish.  He had lately set up a threshing-machine worked by horses, which was as
much admired by the intelligent as it was vituperated by the ignorant.

Neither paupers nor poachers abounded in Hillside; the natives were chiefly tenants and employed
on the property, and, between good management and beneficence, there was little real want and
much friendly confidence and affection; and thus, in spite of surrounding riots, Hillside seemed
likely to be an exception, proving what could he done by rightful care and attention.  Nor
indeed did the attack come from thence; but the two parsons were bitterly hated by outsiders
beyond the reach of their personal influence and benevolence.

It was on a Saturday evening, the day after Griff had come back for the Christmas vacation,
that, as Emily was giving Amos his lesson, she saw that the boy was crying, and after examination
he let out that 'folk should say that the lads were agoing to break Parson Fordy's machine
and fire his ricks that very night;' but he would not give his authority, and when he saw her
about to give warning, entreated, 'Now, dont'ze say nothing, Miss Emily--'

'What?' she cried indignantly; 'do you think I could hear of such a thing without trying to
stop it?'

'Us says,' he blurted out, 'as how Winslows be always fain of ought as happens to the Fordys--'

'We are not such wicked Winslows as you have heard of,' returned Emily with dignity; and she
rushed off in quest of papa and Griff, but when she brought them to the bookroom, Amos had
decamped, and was nowhere to be found that night.  We afterwards learnt that he lay hidden
in the hay-loft, not daring to return to his granny's, lest he should be suspected of being
a traitor to his kind; for our lawless, untamed, discontented parish furnished a large quota
to the rioters, and he has since told me that though all seemed to know what was about to be
done, he did not hear it from any one in particular.

It was no time to make light of a warning, but very difficult to know what to do.  Rural police
were non-existent; there were no soldiers nearer than Keynsham, and the Yeomanry were all in
their own homesteads.  However, the captain of Griff's troop, Sir George Eastwood, lived about
three miles beyond Wattlesea, and had a good many dependants in the corps, so it was resolved
to send him a note by the gardener, good James Ellis, a steady, resolute man, on Emily's fast-trotting
pony, while my father and Griff should hasten to Hillside to warn the Fordyces, who were not
unlikely to be able to muster trustworthy defenders among their own people, and might send
the ladies to take shelter at Chantry House.

My mother's brave spirit disdained to detain an effective man for her own protection, and the
groom was to go to Hillside; he was in the Yeomanry, and, like Griff, put on his uniform, while
my father had the Riot Act in his pocket.  All the horses were thus absorbed, but Chapman and
the man-servant followed on foot.

Never did I feel my incapacity more than on that strange night, when Emily was flying about
with Martyn to all the doors and windows in a wild state of excitement, humming to herself -

'When the dawn on the mountain was misty and gray, My true love has mounted his steed and away.'

My mother was equally restless, prolonging as much as possible the preparation of rooms for
possible guests; and when she did come and sit down, she netted her purse with vehement jerks,
and scolded Emily for jumping up and leaving doors open.

At last, after an hour according to the clock, but far more by our feelings, wheels were heard
in the distance; Emily was off like a shot to reconnoitre, and presently Martyn bounced in
with the tidings that a pair of carriage lamps were coming up the drive.  My mother hurried
out into the hall; I made my best speed after her, and found her hastily undoing the door-chain
as she recognised the measured, courteous voice of old Mr. Fordyce.  In a moment more they
were all in the house, the old gentleman giving his arm to his daughter-in-law, who was quite
overcome with distress and alarm; then came his tall, slim granddaughter, carrying her little
sister with arms full of dolls, and sundry maid-servants completed the party of fugitives.

'We are taking advantage of Mr. Winslow's goodness,' said the old Rector.  'He assured us that
you would be kind enough to receive those who would only be an encumbrance.'

'Oh, but I must go back to Frank now that you and the children are safe,' cried the poor lady.
'Don't send away the carriage; I must go back to Frank.'

'Nonsense, my dear,' returned Mr. Fordyce, 'Frank is in no danger. He will get on much better
for knowing you are safe.  Mrs. Winslow will tell you so.'

My mother was enforcing this assurance, when the little girl's sobs burst out in spite of her
sister, who had been trying to console her.  'It is Celestina Mary,' she cried, pointing to
three dolls whom she had carried in clasped to her breast.  'Poor Celestina Mary!  She is left
behind, and Ellen won't let me go and see if she is in the carriage.'

'My dear, if she is in the carriage, she will be quite safe in the morning.'

'Oh, but she will be so cold.  She had nothing on but Rosella's old petticoat.'

The distress was so real that I had my hand on the bell to cause a search to be instituted
for the missing damsel, when Mrs. Fordyce begged me to do no such thing, as it was only a doll.
The child, while endeavouring to shelter with a shawl the dolls, snatched in their night-gear
from their beds, wept so piteously at the rebuff that her grandfather had nearly gone in quest
of the lost one, but was stopped by a special entreaty that he would not spoil the child. Martyn,
however, who had been standing in open-mouthed wonder at such feeling for a doll, exclaimed,
'Don't cry, don't cry.  I'll go and get it for you;' and rushed off to the stable-yard.

This episode had restored Mrs. Fordyce, and while providing some of our guests with wine, and
others with tea, we heard the story, only interrupted by Martyn's return from a vain search,
and Anne's consequent tears, which, however, were somehow hushed and smothered by fears of
being sent to bed, coupled with his promises to search every step of the way to-morrow.

It appeared that while the Fordyce family were at dinner, shouts, howls and yells had startled
them.  The rabble had surrounded the Rectory, bawling out abuse of the parsons and their machines,
and occasionally throwing stones.  There was no help to be expected; the only hope was in the
strength of the doors and windows, and the knowledge that personal violence was very uncommon;
but those were terrible moments, and poor Mrs. Fordyce was nearly dead with suppressed terror
when her husband tried haranguing from an upper window, and was received with execrations and
a volley of stones, while the glass crashed round him.

At that instant the shouts turned to yells of dismay, 'The so'diers! the so'diers!'

Our party had found everything still and dark in the village, for in truth the men had hidden
themselves.  They were being too much attached to their masters to join in the attack, but
were afraid of being compelled to assist the rioters, and not resolute enough against their
own class either to inform against them or oppose them.

Through the midnight-like stillness of the street rose the tumult around the Rectory; and by
the light of a few lanterns, and from the upper windows, they could see a mass of old hats,
smock-frocked shoulders, and the tops of bludgeons; while at soonest, Sir George Eastwood's
troop could not be expected for an hour or more.

'We must get to them somehow,' said my father and Griff to one another; and Griff added, 'These
rascals are arrant cowards, and they can't see the number of us.'

Then, before my father knew what he was about--certainly before he could get hold of the Riot
Act--he found the stable lantern made over to him, and Griff's sword flashing in light, as,
making all possible clatter and jingling with their accoutrements, the two yeomen dashed among
the throng, shouting with all their might, and striking with the flat of their swords.  The
rioters, ill-fed, dull- hearted men for the most part--many dragged out by compulsion, and
already terrified--went tumbling over one another and running off headlong, bearing off with
them (as we afterwards learnt) their leaders by their weight, taking the blows and pushes they
gave one another in their pell-mell rush for those of the soldiery, and falling blindly against
the low wall of the enclosure.  The only difficulty was in clearing them out at the two gates
of the drive.

When Mr. Fordyce opened the door to hail his rescuers he was utterly amazed to behold only
three, and asked in a bewildered voice, 'Where are the others?'

There were two prisoners, Petty the ratcatcher, who had attempted some resistance and had been
knocked down by Griff's horse, and a young lad in a smock-frock who had fallen off the wall
and hurt his knee, and who blubbered piteously, declaring that them chaps had forced him to
go with them, or they would duck him in the horse- pond.  They were supposed to be given in
charge to some one, but were lost sight of, and no wonder!  For just then it was discovered
that the machine shed was on fire.  The rioters had apparently detached one of their number
to kindle the flame before assaulting the house.  The matter was specially serious, because
the stackyard was on a line with the Rectory, at some distance indeed, but on lower ground;
and what with barns, hay and wheat ricks, sheds, cowhouses and stables, all thatched, a big
wood-pile, and a long old-fashioned greenhouse, there was almost continuous communication.
Clouds of smoke and an ominous smell were already perceptible on the wind, generated by the
heat, and the loose straw in the centre of the farmyard was beginning to be ignited by the
flakes and sparks, carrying the mischief everywhere, and rendering it exceedingly difficult
to release the animals and drive them to a place of safety.  Water was scarce.  There were
only two wells, besides the pump in the house, and a shallow pond.  The brook was a quarter
of a mile off in the valley, and the nearest engine, a poor feeble thing, at Wattlesea.  Moreover,
the assailants might discover how small was the force of rescuers, and return to the attack.
Thus, while Griff, who had given amateur assistance at all the fires he could reach in London;
was striving to organise resistance to this new enemy, my father induced the gentlemen to cause
the horses to be put to the various vehicles, and employ them in carrying the women and children
to Chantry House.  The old Rector was persuaded to go to take care of his daughter-in-law,
and she only thought of putting her girls in safety.  She listened to reason, and indeed was
too much exhausted to move when once she was laid on the sofa.  She would not hear of going
to bed, though her little daughter Anne was sent off with her nurse, grandpapa persuading her
that Rosella and the others were very much tired.  When she was gone, he declared his fears
that he had sat down on Celestina's head, and showed so much compunction that we were much
amused at his relief when Martyn assured him of having searched the carriage with a stable
lantern, so that whatever had befallen the lady he was not the guilty person.  He really seemed
more concerned about this than at the loss of all his own barns and stores.  And little Anne
was certainly as lovely and engaging a little creature as ever I saw; while, as to her elder
sister, in all the trouble and anxiety of the night, I could not help enjoying the sight of
her beautiful eager face and form.  She was tall and very slight, sylph-like, as it was the
fashion to call it, but every limb was instinct with grace and animation.  Her face was, perhaps,
rather too thin for robust health, though this enhanced the idea of her being all spirit, as
also did the transparency of complexion, tinted with an exquisite varying carnation.  Her eyes
were of a clear, bright, rather light brown, and were sparkling with the lustre of excitement,
her delicate lips parted, showing the pretty pearly teeth, as she was telling Emily, in a low
voice of enthusiasm, scarcely designed for my ears, how glorious a sight our brother had been,
riding there in his glancing silver, bearing down all before him with his good sword, like
the Captal de Buch dispersing the Jacquerie.

To which Emily responded, 'Oh, don't you love the Captal de Buch?' And their friendship was
cemented.

Next I heard, 'And that you should have been so good after all my rudeness.  But I thought
you were like the old Winslows; and instead of that you have come to the rescue of your enemies.
Isn't it beautiful?'

'Oh no, not enemies,' said Emily.  'That was all over a hundred years ago!'

'So my papa and grandpapa say,' returned Miss Fordyce; 'but the last Mr. Winslow was not a
very nice man, and never would be civil to us.'

A report was brought that the glare of the fire could be seen over the hill from the top of
the house, and off went the two young ladies to the leads, after satisfying themselves that
Anne was asleep among her homeless dolls.

Old Mr. Fordyce devoted himself to keeping up the spirits of his daughter-in-law as the night
advanced without any tidings, except that the girls, from time to time, rushed down to tell
us of fresh outbursts of red flame reflected in the sky, then that the glow was diminishing;
by which time they were tired out, and, both sinking into a big armchair, they went to sleep
in each other's arms. Indeed I believe we all dozed more or less before any one returned from
the scene of action--at about three o'clock.

The struggle with the flames had been very unequal.  The long tongues soon reached the roof
of the large barn, which was filled with straw, nor could the flakes of burning thatch be kept
from the stable, while the water of the pond was soon reduced to mud. Helpers began to flock
in, but who could tell which were trustworthy? and all were uncomprehending.

There was so little hope of saving the house that the removal of everything valuable was begun
under my father's superintendence. Frank Fordyce was here, there, and everywhere; while Griffith,
like a gallant general, fought the foe with very helpless unmanageable forces.  Villagers,
male and female, had emerged and stood gaping round; but, let him rage and storm as he might,
they would not go and collect pails and buckets and form a line to the brook.  Still less would
they assist in overthrowing and carrying away the faggots of a big wood-pile so as to cut off
the communication with the offices.  Only Chapman and one other man gave any help in this;
and presently the stack caught, and Griff, on the top, was in great peril of the faggots rolling
down with him into the middle, and imprisoning him in the blazing pile.  'I never felt so like
Dido,' said Griff.

That woodstack gave fearful aliment to the roaring flame, which came on so fast that the destruction
of the adjoining buildings quickly followed.  The Wattlesea engine had come, but the yard well
was unattainable, and all that could be done was to saturate the house with water from its
own well, and cover the side with wet blankets; but these reeked with steam, and then shrivelled
away in the intense glow of heat.

However, by this time the Eastwood Yeomanry, together with some reasonable men, had arrived.
A raid was made on the cottages for buckets, a chain formed to the river, and at last the fire
was got under, having made a wreck of everything out-of-doors, and consumed one whole wing
of the house, though the older and more esteemed portion was saved.

CHAPTER XVIII--THE PORTRAIT

'When day was gone and night was come,
   And all men fast asleep,
There came the spirit of fair Marg'ret
   And stood at William's feet.'

Scotch Ballad.

When I emerged from my room the next morning the phaeton was at the door to take the two clergymen
to reconnoitre their abode before going to church.  Miss Fordyce went with them, and my father
was for once about to leave his parish church to give them his sympathy, and join in their
thanksgiving that neither life nor limb had been injured.  He afterwards said that nothing
could have been more touching than old Mr. Fordyce's manner of mentioning this special cause
for gratitude before the General Thanksgiving; and Frank Fordyce, having had all his sermons
burnt, gave a short address extempore (a very rare and almost shocking thing at that date),
reducing half the congregation to tears, for they really loved 'the fam'ly,' though they had
not spirit enough to defend it; and their passiveness always remained a subject of pride and
pleasure to the Fordyces.  It was against the will of these good people that Petty, the ratcatcher,
was arrested, but he had been engaged in other outrages, though this was the only one in which
a dwelling-house had suffered.  And Chapman observed that 'there was nothing to be done with
such chaps but to string 'em up out of the way.'

Griff had toiled that night till he was as stiff as a rheumatic old man when he came down only
just in time for luncheon.  Mrs. Fordyce did not appear at all.  She was a fragile creature,
and quite knocked up by the agitations of the night.  The gentlemen had visited the desolate
rectory, and found that though the fine ancient kitchen had escaped, the pleasant living rooms
had been injured by the water, and the place could hardly be made habitable before the spring.
They proposed to take a house in Bath, whence Frank Fordyce could go and come for Sunday duty
and general superintendence, but my parents were urgent that they should not leave us until
after Christmas, and they consented.  Their larger possessions were to be stored in the outhouses,
their lesser in our house, notably in the inner mullion chamber, which would thus be so blocked
that there would be no question of sleeping in it.

Old Mr. Fordyce had ascertained that he might acquit himself of smashing Celestina Mary, for
no remains appeared in the carriage; but a miserable trunk was discovered in the ruins, which
he identified--though surely no one else save the disconsolate parent could have done so. 
Poor little Anne's private possessions had suffered most severely of all, for her whole nursery
establishment had vanished.  Her surviving dolls were left homeless, and devoid of all save
their night-clothing, which concerned her much more than the loss of almost all her own garments.
For what dolls were to her could never have been guessed by us, who had forced Emily to disdain
them; whereas they were children to the maternal heart of this lonely child.

She was quite a new revelation to us.  All the Fordyces were handsome; and her chestnut curls
and splendid eyes, her pretty colour and unconscious grace, were very charming.  Emily was
so near our own age that we had never known the winsomeness of a little maid-child amongst
us, and she was a perpetual wonder and delight to us.

Indeed, from having always lived with her elders, she was an odd little old-fashioned person,
advanced in some ways, and comically simple in others.  Her doll-heart was kept in abeyance
all Sunday, and it was only on Monday that her anxiety for Celestina manifested itself with
considerable vehemence; but her grandfather gravely informed her that the young lady was gone
to an excellent doctor, who would soon effect a cure.  The which was quite true, for he had
sent her to a toy-shop by one of the maids who had gone to restore the ravage on the wardrobes,
and who brought her back with a new head and arms, her identity apparently not being thus interfered
with.  The hoards of scraps were put under requisition to re-clothe the survivors; and I won
my first step in Miss Anne's good graces by undertaking a knitted suit for Rosella.

The good little girl had evidently been schooled to repress her dread and repugnance at my
unlucky appearance, and was painfully polite, only shutting her eyes when she came to shake
hands with me; but after Rosella condescended to adopt me, we became excellent friends.  Indeed
the following conversation was overheard by Emily, and set down:

'Do you know, Martyn, there's a fairies' ring on Hillside Down?'

'Mushrooms,' quoth Martyn.

'Yes, don't you know?  They are the fairies' tables.  They come out and spread them with lily
tablecloths at night, and have acorn cups for dishes, with honey in them.  And they dance and
play there. Well, couldn't Mr. Edward go and sit under the beech-tree at the edge till they come?'

'I don't think he would like it at all,' said Martyn.  'He never goes out at odd times.'

'Oh, but don't you know? when they come they begin to sing -

'"Sunday and Monday, Monday and Tuesday."

And if he was to sing nicely,

'"Wednesday and Thursday,"

they would be so much pleased that they would make his back straight again in a moment.  At
least, perhaps Wednesday and Thursday would not do, because the little tailor taught them those;
but Friday makes them angry.  But suppose he made some nice verse -

'"Monday and Tuesday The fairies are gay, Tuesday and Wednesday They dance away--"

I think that would do as well, perhaps.  Do get him to do so, Martyn.  It would be so nice
if he was tall and straight.'

Dear little thing!  Martyn, who was as much her slave as was her grandfather, absolutely made
her shed tears over his history of our accident, and then caressed them off; but I believe
he persuaded her that such a case might be beyond the fairies' reach, and that I could hardly
get to the spot in secret, which, it seems, is an essential point.  He had imagination enough
to be almost persuaded of fairyland by her earnestness, and she certainly took him into doll-land.
He had a turn for carpentry and contrivance, and he undertook that the Ladies Rosella, etc.,
should be better housed than ever.  A great packing-case was routed out, and much ingenuity
was expended, much delight obtained, in the process of converting it into a doll's mansion,
and replenishing it with furniture.  Some was bought, but Martyn aspired to make whatever he
could; I did a good deal, and I believe most of our achievements are still extant. Whatever
we could not manage, Clarence was to accomplish when he should come home.

His arrival was, as usual, late in the evening; and, as before, he had the little room within
mine.  In the morning, as we were crossing the hall to the bright wood fire, around which the
family were wont to assemble before prayers, he came to a pause, asking under his breath, 'What's
that?  Who's that?'

'It is one of the Hillside pictures.  You know we have a great many things here from thence.'

'It is SHE,' he said, in a low, awe-stricken voice.  No need to say who SHE meant.

I had not paid much attention to the picture.  It had come with several more, such as are rife
in country houses, and was one of the worst of the lot, a poor imitation of Lely's style, with
a certain air common to all the family; but Clarence's eyes were riveted on it.  'She looks
younger,' he said; 'but it is the same.  I could swear to the lip and the whole shape of the
brow and chin.  No--the dress is different.'

For in the portrait, there was nothing on the head, and one long lock of hair fell on the shoulder
of the low-cut white-satin dress, done in very heavy gray shading.  The three girls came down
together, and I asked who the lady was.

'Don't you know?  You ought; for that is poor Margaret who married your ancestor.'

No more was said then, for the rest of the world was collecting, and then everybody went out
their several ways.  Some tin tacks were wanted for the dolls' house, and there were reports
that Wattlesea possessed a doll's grate and fire-irons.  The children were wild to go in quest
of them, but they were not allowed to go alone, and it was pronounced too far and too damp
for the elder sister, so that they would have been disappointed, if Clarence--stimulated by
Martyn's kicks under the table--had not offered to be their escort. When Mrs. Fordyce demurred,
my mother replied, 'You may perfectly trust her with Clarence.'

'Yes; I don't know a safer squire,' rejoined my father.

Commendation was so rare that Clarence quite blushed with pleasure; and the pretty little thing
was given into his charge, prancing and dancing with pleasure, and expecting much more from
sixpence and from Wattlesea than was likely to be fulfilled.

Griff went out shooting, and the two young ladies and I intended to spend a very rational morning
in the bookroom, reading aloud Mme. de La Rochejaquelein's Memoirs by turns.  Our occupations
were, on Emily's part, completing a reticule, in a mosaic of shaded coloured beads no bigger
than pins' heads, for a Christmas gift to mamma--a most wearisome business, of which she had
grown extremely tired. Miss Fordyce was elaborately copying our Muller's print of Raffaelle's
St. John in pencil on cardboard, so as to be as near as possible a facsimile; and she had trusted
me to make a finished water-coloured drawing from a rough sketch of hers of the Hillside barn
and farm-buildings, now no more.

In a pause Ellen Fordyce suddenly asked, 'What did you mean about that picture?'

'Only Clarence said it was like--' and here Emily came to a dead stop.

'Grandpapa says it is like me,' said Miss Fordyce.  'What, you don't mean THAT?  Oh! oh! oh!
is it true?  Does she walk?  Have you seen her?  Mamma calls it all nonsense, and would not
have Anne hear of it for anything; but old Aunt Peggy used to tell me, and I am sure grandpapa
believes it, just a little.  Have you seen her?'

'Only Clarence has, and he knew the picture directly.'

She was much impressed, and on slight persuasion related the story, which she had heard from
an elder sister of her grandfather's, and which had perhaps been the more impressed on her
by her mother's consternation at 'such folly' having been communicated to her.  Aunt Peggy,
who was much older than her brother, had died only four years ago, at eighty-eight, having
kept her faculties to the last, and handed down many traditions to her great-niece.  The old
lady's father had been contemporary with the Margaret of ghostly fame, so that the stages had
been few through which it had come down from 1708 to 1830.

I wrote it down at once, as it here stands.

Margaret was the only daughter of the elder branch of the Fordyces. Her father had intended
her to marry her cousin, the male heir on whom the Hillside estates and the advowson of that
living were entailed; but before the contract had been formally made, the father was killed
by accident, and through some folly and ambition of her mother's (such seemed to be the Fordyce
belief), the poor heiress was married to Sir James Winslow, one of the successful intriguers
of the days of the later Stewarts, and with a family nearly as old, if not older, than herself.
Her own children died almost at their birth, and she was left a young widow.  Being meek and
gentle, her step-sons and daughters still ruled over Chantry House.  They prevented her Hillside
relations from having access to her whilst in a languishing state of health, and when she died
unexpectedly, she was found to have bequeathed all her property to her step-son, Philip Winslow,
instead of to her blood relations, the Fordyces.

This was certain, but the Fordyce tradition was that she had been kept shut up in the mullion
chambers, where she had often been heard weeping bitterly.  One night in the winter, when the
gentlemen of the family had gone out to a Christmas carousal, she had endeavoured to escape
by the steps leading to the garden from the door now bricked up, but had been met by them and
dragged back with violence, of which she died in the course of a few days; and, what was very
suspicious, she had been entirely attended by her step-daughter and an old nurse, who never
would let her own woman come near her.

The Fordyces had thought of a prosecution, but the Winslows had powerful interest at Court
in those corrupt times, and contrived to hush up the matter, as well as to win the suit in
which the Fordyces attempted to prove that there was no right to will the property away.  Bitter
enmity remained between the families; they were always opposed in politics, and their animosity
was fed by the belief which arose that at the anniversaries of her death the poor lady haunted
the rooms, lamp in hand, wailing and lamenting.  A duel had been fought on the subject between
the heirs of the two families, resulting in the death of the young Winslow.

'And now,' cried Ellen Fordyce, 'the feud is so beautifully ended; the doom must be appeased,
now that the head of one hostile line has come to the rescue of the other, and saved all our
lives.'

My suggestion that these would hardly have been destroyed, even without our interposition,
fell very flat, for romance must have its swing.  Ellen told us how, on the news of our kinsman's
death and our inheritance, the ancestral story had been discussed, and her grandfather had
said he believed there were letters about it in the iron deed-box, and how he hoped to be on
better terms with the new heir.

The ghost story had always been hushed up in the family, especially since the duel, and we
all knew the resemblance of the picture would be scouted by our elders; but perhaps this gave
us the more pleasure in dwelling upon it, while we agreed that poor Margaret ought to be appeased
by Griffith's prowess on behalf of the Fordyces.

The two young ladies went off to inspect the mullion chamber, which they found so crammed with
Hillside furniture that they could scarcely enter, and returned disappointed, except for having
inspected and admired all Griff's weapons, especially what Miss Fordyce called the sword of
her rescue.

She had been learning German--rather an unusual study in those days, and she narrated to us
most effectively the story of Die Weisse Frau, working herself up to such a pitch that she
would have actually volunteered to spend a night in the room, to see whether Margaret would
hold any communication with a descendant, after the example of the White Woman and Lady Bertha,
if there had been either fire or accommodation, and if the only entrance had not been through
Griff's private sitting-room.

CHAPTER XIX--THE WHITE FEATHER

'The white doe's milk is not out of his mouth.'

SCOTT.

Clarence had come home free from all blots.  His summer holiday had been prevented by the illness
of one of the other clerks, whose place, Mr. Castleford wrote, he had so well supplied that
ere long he would be sure to earn his promotion.  That kind friend had several times taken
him to spend a Sunday in the country, and, as we afterwards had reason to think, would have
taken more notice of him but for the rooted belief of Mr. Frith that it was a case of favouritism,
and that piety and strictness were assumed to throw dust in the eyes of his patron.

Such distrust had tended to render Clarence more reserved than ever, and it was quite by the
accident of finding him studying one of Mrs. Trimmer's Manuals that I discovered that, at the
request of his good Rector, he had become a Sunday-school teacher, and was as much interested
as the enthusiastic girls; but I was immediately forbidden to utter a word on the subject,
even to Emily, lest she should tell any one.

Such reserve was no doubt an outcome of his natural timidity.  He had to bear a certain amount
of scorn and derision among some of his fellow-clerks for the stricter habits and observances
that could not be concealed, and he dreaded any fresh revelation of them, partly because of
the cruel imputation of hypocrisy, partly because he feared the bringing a scandal on religion
by his weakness and failures.

Nor did our lady visitors' ways reassure him, though they meant to be kind.  They could not
help being formal and stiff, not as they were with Griff and me.  The two gentlemen were thoroughly
friendly and hearty; Parson Frank could hardly have helped being so towards any one in the
same house with himself; and as to little Anne, she found in the new-comer a carpenter and
upholsterer superior even to Martyn; but her candour revealed a great deal which I overheard
one afternoon, when the two children were sitting together on the hearth-rug in the bookroom
in the twilight.

'I want to see Mr. Clarence's white feather,' observed Anne.

'Griff has a white plume in his Yeomanry helmet,' replied Martyn; 'Clarence hasn't one.'

'Oh, I saw Mr. Griffith's!' she answered; 'but Cousin Horace said Mr. Clarence showed the white
feather.'

'Cousin Horace is an ape!' cried Martyn.

'I don't think he is so nice as an ape,' said Anne.  'He is more like a monkey.  He tries the
dolls by court-martial, and he shot Arabella with a pea-shooter, and broke her eye; only grandpapa
made him have it put in again with his own money, and then he said I was a little sneak, and
if I ever did it again he would shoot me.'

'Mind you don't tell Clarence what he said,' said Martyn.

'Oh, no!  I think Mr. Clarence very nice indeed; but Horace did tease so about that day when
he carried poor Amos Bell home.  He said Ellen had gone and made friends with the worst of
all the wicked Winslows, who had shown the white feather and disgraced his flag.  No; I know
you are not wicked.  And Mr. Griff came all glittering, like Richard Coeur de Lion, and saved
us all that night. But Ellen cried to think what she had done, and mamma said it showed what
it was to speak to a strange young man; and she has never let Ellen and me go out of the grounds
by ourselves since that day.'

'It is a horrid shame,' exclaimed Martyn, 'that a fellow can't get into a scrape without its
being for ever cast up to him.'

'I like him,' said Anne.  'He gave Mary Bell a nice pair of boots, and he made a new pair of
legs for poor old Arabella, and she can really sit down!  Oh, he is VERY nice; but'--in an
awful whisper-- 'does he tell stories?  I mean fibs--falsehoods.'

'Who told you that?' exclaimed Martyn.

'Mamma said it.  Ellen was telling them something about the picture of the white-satin lady,
and mamma said, "Oh, if it is only that young man, no doubt it is a mere mystification;" and
papa said, "Poor young fellow, he seems very amiable and well disposed;" and mamma said, "If
he can invent such a story it shows that Horace was right, and he is not to be believed." 
Then they stopped, but I asked Ellen who it was, and she said it was Mr. Clarence, and it was
a sad thing for Emily and all of you to have such a brother.'

Martyn began to stammer with indignation, and I thought it time to interfere; so I called the
little maid, and gravely explained the facts, adding that poor Clarence's punishment had been
terrible, but that he was doing his best to make up for what was past; and that, as to anything
he might have told, though he might be mistaken, he never said anything NOW but what he believed
to be true.  She raised her brown eyes to mine full of gravity, and said, 'I DO like him.'
Moreover, I privately made Martyn understand that if he told her what had been said about the
white-satin lady, he would never be forgiven; the others would be sure to find it out, and
it might shorten their stay.

That was a dreadful idea, for the presence of those two creatures, to say nothing of their
parents, was an unspeakable charm and novelty to us all.  We all worshipped the elder, and
the little one was like a new discovery and toy to us, who had never been used to such a presence.
She was not a commonplace child; but even if she had been, she would have been as charming
a study as a kitten; and she had all the four of us at her feet, though her mother was constantly
protesting against our spoiling her, and really kept up so much wholesome discipline that the
little maid never exceeded the bounds of being charming to us.  After that explanation there
was the same sweet wistful gentleness in her manner towards Clarence as she showed to me; while
he, who never dreamt of such a child knowing his history was brighter and freer with her than
with any one else, played with her and Martyn, and could be heard laughing merrily with them.
Perhaps her mother and sister did not fully like this, but they could not interfere before
our faces.  And Parson Frank was really kind to him; took him out walking when going to Hillside,
and talked to him so as to draw him out; certifying, perhaps, that he would do no harm, although,
indeed, the family looked on dear good Frank as a sort of boy, too kind-hearted and genial
for his approval to be worth as much as that of the more severe.

These were our only Christmas visitors, for the state of the country did not invite Londoners;
but we did not want them.  The suppression of Clarence was the only flaw in a singularly happy
time; and, after all I believe I felt the pity of it more than he did, who expected nothing,
and was accustomed to being in the background.

For instance, one afternoon in the course of one of the grave discussions that used to grow
up between Miss Fordyce, Emily, and me, over subjects trite to the better-instructed younger
generation, we got quite out of our shallow depths.  I think it was on the meaning of the 'Communion
of Saints,' for the two girls were both reading in preparation for a Confirmation at Bristol,
and Miss Fordyce knew more than we did on these subjects.  All the time Clarence had sat in
the window, carving a bit of doll's furniture, and quite forgotten; but at night he showed
me the exposition copied from Pearson on the Creed, a bit of Hooker, and extracts from one
or two sermons.  I found these were notes written out in a blank book, which he had had in
hand ever since his Confirmation--his logbook as he called it; but he would not hear of their
being mentioned even to Emily, and only consented to hunt up the books on condition I would
not bring him forward as the finder.  It was of no use to urge that it was a deprivation to
us all that he should not aid us with his more thorough knowledge and deeper thought.  'He
could not do so,' he said, in a quiet decisive manner; 'it was enough for him to watch and
listen to Miss Fordyce, when she could forget his presence.'

She often did forget it in her eagerness.  She was by nature one of the most ardent beings
that I ever saw, yet with enthusiasm kept in check by the self-control inculcated as a primary
duty.  It would kindle in those wonderful light brown eyes, glow in the clear delicate cheek,
quiver in the voice even when the words were only half adequate to the feeling.  She was not
what is now called gushing.  Oh, no! not in the least!  She was too reticent and had too much
dignity for anything of the kind.  Emily had always been reckoned as our romantic young lady,
and teased accordingly, but her enthusiasm beside Ellen's was

'As moonlight is to sunlight, as water is to wine,' -

a mere reflection of the tone of the period, compared with a real element in the character.
At least so my sister tells me, though at the time all the difference I saw was that Miss Fordyce
had the most originality, and unconsciously became the leader.  The bookroom was given up to
us, and there in the morning we drew, worked, read, copied and practised music, wrote out extracts,
and delivered our youthful minds to one another on all imaginable topics from 'slea silk to
predestination.'

Religious subjects occupied us more than might have been held likely.  A spirit of reflection
and revival was silently working in many a heart.  Evangelicalism had stirred old-fashioned
orthodoxy, and we felt its action.  The Christian Year was Ellen's guiding star--as it was
ours, nay, doubly so in proportion to the ardour of her nature.  Certain poems are dearer and
more eloquent to me still, because the verses recall to me the thrill of her sweet tones as
she repeated them.  We were all very ignorant alike of Church doctrine and history, but talking
out and comparing our discoveries and impressions was as useful as it was pleasant to us.

What the Christian Year was in religion to us Scott was in history. We read to verify or illustrate
him, and we had little raving fits over his characters, and jokes founded on them.  Indeed,
Ellen saw life almost through that medium; and the siege of Hillside, dispersed by the splendid
prowess of Griffith, the champion with silver helm and flashing sword, was precious to her
as a renewal of the days of Ivanhoe or Damian de Lacy.

As may be believed, these quiet mornings were those when that true knight was employed in field
sports or yeomanry duties, such as the state of the country called for.  When he was at home,
all was fun and merriment and noise--walks and rides on fine days, battledore and shuttlecock
on wet ones, music, singing, paper games, giggling and making giggle, and sometimes dancing
in the hall--Mr. Frank Fordyce joining with all his heart and drollery in many of these, like
the boy he was.

I could play quadrilles and country dances, and now and then a reel- -nobody thought of waltzes--and
the three couples changed and counterchanged partners.  Clarence had the sailor's foot, and
did his part when needed; Emily generally fell to his share, and their silence and gravity
contrasted with the mirth of the other pairs. He knew very well he was the pis aller of the
party, and only danced when Parson Frank was not dragged out, nothing loth, by his little daughter.
With Miss Fordyce, Clarence never had the chance of dancing; she was always claimed by Griff,
or pounced upon by Martyn.

Miss Fordyce she always was to us in those days, and those pretty lips scrupulously 'Mistered'
and 'Winslowed' us.  I don't think she would have been more to us, if we had called her Nell,
and had been Griff, Bill, and Ted to her, or if there had not been all the little formalities
of avoiding tete a tetes and the like.  They were essentials of propriety then--natural, and
never viewed as prudish. Nor did it detract from the sweet dignity of maidenhood that there
was none of the familiarity which breeds something one would rather not mention in conjunction
with a lady.

Altogether there was a sunshine around Miss Fordyce by which we all seemed illuminated, even
the least favoured and least demonstrative; we were all her willing slaves, and thought her
smile and thanks full reward.

One day, when Griff and Martyn were assisting at the turn out of an isolated barn at Hillside,
where Frank Fordyce declared, all the burnt-out rats and mice had taken refuge, the young ladies
went out to cater for house decorations for Christmas under Clarence's escort.  Nobody but
the clerk ever thought of touching the church, where there were holes in all the pews to receive
the holly boughs.

The girls came back, telling in eager scared voices how, while gathering butcher's broom in
Farmer Hodges' home copse, a savage dog had flown out at them, but had been kept at bay by
Mr. Clarence Winslow with an umbrella, while they escaped over the stile.

Clarence had not come into the drawing-room with them, and while my mother, who had a great
objection to people standing about in out- door garments, sent them up to doff their bonnets
and furs, I repaired to our room, and was horrified to find him on my bed, white and faint.

'Bitten?' I cried in dismay.

'Yes; but not much.  Only I'm such a fool.  I turned off when I began taking off my boots.
No, no--don't!  Don't call any one.  It is nothing!'

He was springing up to stop me, but was forced to drop back, and I made my way to the drawing-room,
where my mother happened to be alone.  She was much alarmed, but a glass of wine restored Clarence;
and inspection showed that the thick trowser and winter stocking had so protected him that
little blood had been drawn, and there was bruise rather than bite in the calf of the leg,
where the brute had caught him as he was getting over the stile as the rear-guard.  It was
painful, though the faintness was chiefly from tension of nerve, for he had kept behind all
the way home, and no one had guessed at the hurt.  My mother doctored it tenderly, and he begged
that nothing should be said about it; he wanted no fuss about such a trifle.  My mother agreed,
with the proud feeling of not enhancing the obligations of the Fordyce family; but she absolutely
kissed Clarence's forehead as she bade him lie quiet till dinner-time.

We kept silence at table while the girls described the horrors of the monster.  'A tawny creature,
with a hideous black muzzle,' said Emily.  'Like a bad dream,' said Miss Fordyce.  The two
fathers expressed their intention of remonstrating with the farmer, and Griff declared that
it would be lucky if he did not shoot it.  Miss Fordyce generously took its part, saying the
poor dog was doing its duty, and Griff ejaculated, 'If I had been there!'

'It would not have dared to show its teeth, eh?' said my father, when there was a good deal
of banter.

My father, however, came at night with mamma to inspect the hurt and ask details, and he ended
with, 'Well done, Clarence, boy; I am gratified to see you are acquiring presence of mind,
and can act like a man.'

Clarence smiled when they were gone, saying, 'That would have been an insult to any one else.'

Emily perceived that he had not come off unscathed, and was much aggrieved at being bound to
silence.  'Well,' she broke out, 'if the dog goes mad, and Clarence has the hydrophobia, I
suppose I may tell.'

'In that pleasing contingency,' said Clarence smiling.  'Don't you see, Emily, it is the worst
compliment you can pay me not to treat this as a matter of course?'  Still, he was the happier
for not having failed.  Whatever strengthened his self-respect and gave him trust in himself
was a stepping-stone.

As to rivalry or competition with Griff, the idea seemingly never crossed his mind, and envy
or jealousy were equally aloof from it. One subject of thankfulness runs through these recollections--
namely, that nothing broke the tie of strong affection between us three brothers.  Griffith
might figure as the 'vary parfite knight,' the St. George of the piece, glittering in the halo
shed round him by the bright eyes of the rescued damsel; while Clarence might drag himself
along as the poor recreant to be contemned and tolerated, and he would accept the position
meekly as only his desert, without a thought of bitterness.  Indeed, he himself seemed to have
imbibed Nurse Gooch's original opinion, that his genuine love for sacred things was a sort
of impertinence and pretension in such as he--a kind of hypocrisy even when they were the realities
and helps to which he clung with all his heart.  Still, this depression was only shown by reserve,
and troubled no one save myself, who knew him best guessed what was lost by his silence, and
burned in spirit at seeing him merely endured as one unworthy.

In one of our varieties of Waverley discussions the crystal hardness and inexperienced intolerance
of youth made Miss Fordyce declare that had she been Edith Plantagenet, she would never, never
have forgiven Sir Kenneth.  'How could she, when he had forsaken the king's banner?  Unpardonable!'

Then came a sudden, awful silence, as she recollected her audience, and blushed crimson with
the misery of perceiving where her random shaft had struck, nor did either of us know what
to say; but to our surprise it was Clarence who first spoke to relieve the desperate embarrassment.
'Is forgiven quite the right word, when the offence was not personal?  I know that such things
can neither be repaired nor overlooked, and I think that is what Miss Fordyce meant.'

'Oh, Mr. Winslow,' she exclaimed, 'I am very sorry--I don't think I quite meant'--and then,
as her eyes for one moment fell on his subdued face, she added, 'No, I said what I ought not.
If there is sorrow'--her voice trembled--'and pardon above, no one below has any right to say
unpardonable.'

Clarence bowed his head, and his lips framed, but he did not utter, 'Thank you.'  Emily nervously
began reading aloud the page before her, full of the jingling recurring rhymes about Sir Thomas
of Kent; but I saw Ellen surreptitiously wipe away a tear, and from that time she was more
kind and friendly with Clarence.

CHAPTER XX--VENI, VIDI, VICI

'None but the brave, None but the brave, None but the brave deserve the fair.'

Song.

Christmas trees were not yet heard of beyond the Fatherland, and both the mothers held that
Christmas parties were not good for little children, since Mrs. Winslow's strong common sense
had arrived at the same conclusion as Mrs. Fordyce had derived from Hannah More and Richard
Lovell Edgeworth.  Besides, rick-burning and mobs were far too recent for our neighbours to
venture out at night.

But as we were all resolved that little Anne should have a memorable Christmas at Chantry House,
we begged an innocent, though iced cake, from the cook, painted a set of characters ourselves,
including all the dolls, and bespoke the presence of Frank Fordyce at a feast in the outer
mullion room--Griff's apartment, of course.  The locality was chosen as allowing more opportunity
for high jinks than the bookroom, and also because the swords and pistols in trophy over the
mantelpiece had a great fascination for the two sisters, and to 'drink tea with Mr. Griffith'
was always known to be a great ambition of the little queen of the festival.  As to the mullion
chamber legends, they had nearly gone out of our heads, though Clarence did once observe, 'You
remember, it will be the 26th of December;' but we did not think this worthy of consideration,
especially as Anne's entertainment, at its latest, could not last beyond nine o'clock; and
the ghostly performances--now entirely laid to the account of the departed stable-boy--never
began before eleven.

Nor did anything interfere with our merriment.  The fun of fifty years ago must be intrinsically
exquisite to bear being handed down to another generation, so I will attempt no repetition,
though some of those Twelfth Day characters still remain, pasted into my diary. We anticipated
Twelfth Day because our guests meant to go to visit some other friends before the New Year,
and we knew Anne would have no chance there of fulfilling her great ambition of drawing for
king and queen.  These home-made characters were really charming.  Mrs. Fordyce had done several
of them, and she drew beautifully.  A little manipulation contrived that the exquisite Oberon
and Titania should fall to Martyn and Anne, for whom crowns and robes had been prepared, worn
by her majesty with complacent dignity, but barely tolerated by him!  The others took their
chance.  Parson Frank was Tom Thumb, and convulsed us all the evening by acting as if no bigger
than that worthy, keeping us so merry that even Clarence laughed as I had never seen him laugh
before.

Cock Robin and Jenny Wren--the best drawn of all--fell to Griff and Miss Fordyce.  There was
a suspicion of a tint of real carnation on her cheek, as, on his low, highly-delighted bow,
she held up her impromptu fan of folded paper; and drollery about currant wine and hopping
upon twigs went on more or less all the time, while somehow or other the beauteous glow on
her cheeks went on deepening, so that I never saw her look so pretty as when thus playing at
Jenny Wren's coyness, though neither she nor Griff had passed the bounds of her gracious precise
discretion.

The joyous evening ended at last.  With the stroke of nine, Jenny Wren bore away Queen Titania
to put her to bed, for the servants were having an entertainment of their own downstairs for
all the out-door retainers, etc.  Oberon departed, after an interval sufficient to prove his
own dignity and advanced age.  Emily went down to report the success of the evening to the
elders in the drawing-room, but we lingered while Frank Fordyce was telling good stories of
Oxford life, and Griff capping them with more recent ones.

We too broke up--I don't remember how; but Clarence was to help me down the stairs, and Mr.
Fordyce, frowning with anxiety at the process, was offering assistance, while we had much rather
he had gone out of the way; when suddenly, in the gallery round the hall giving access to the
bedrooms, there dawned upon us the startled but scarcely displeased figure of Jenny Wren in
her white dress, not turning aside that blushing face, while Cock Robin was clasping her hand
and pressing it to his lips.  The tap of my crutches warned them.  She flew back within her
door and shut it; Griff strode rapidly on, caught hold of her father's hand, exclaiming, 'Sir,
sir, I must speak to you!' and dragged him back into the mullion room leaving Clarence and
me to convey ourselves downstairs as best we might.

'Our sister, our sweet sister!'

We were immensely excited.  All the three of us were so far in love with Ellen Fordyce that
her presence was an enchantment to us, and at any rate none of us ever saw the woman we could
compare to her; and as we both felt ourselves disqualified in different ways from any nearer
approach, we were content to bask in the reflected rays of our brother's happiness.

Not that he had gone that length as yet, as we knew before the night was over, when he came
down to us.  Even with the dear maiden herself, he had only made sure that she was not averse,
and that merely by her eyes and lips; and he had extracted nothing from her father but that
they were both very young, a great deal too young, and had no business to think of such things
yet.  It must be talked over, etc. etc.

But just then, Griff told us, Frank Fordyce jumped up and turned round with the sudden exclamation,
'Ellen!' looking towards the door behind him with blank astonishment, as he found it had neither
been opened nor shut.  He thought his daughter had recollected something left behind, and coming
in search of it, had retreated precipitately.  He had seen her, he said, in the mirror opposite.
Griff told him there was no mirror, and had to carry a candle across to convince him that he
had only been looking at the door into the inner room, which though of shining dark oak, could
hardly have made a reflection as vivid as he declared that his had been.  Indeed, he ascertained
that Ellen had never left her own room at all.  'It must have been thinking about the dear
child,' he said.  'And after all, it was not quite like her--somehow--she was paler, and had
something over her head.'  We had no doubt who it was.  Griff had not seen her, but he was
certain that there had been none of the moaning nor crying, 'In fact, she has come to give
her consent,' he said with earnest in his mocking tone.

'Yes,' said Clarence gravely, and with glistening eyes.  'You are happy Griff.  It is given
to you to right the wrong, and quiet that poor spirit.'

'Happy!  The happiest fellow in the world,' said Griff, 'even without that latter clause--if
only Madam and the old man will have as much sense as she has!'

The next day was a thoroughly uncomfortable one.  Griff was not half so near his goal as he
had hoped last night when with kindly Parson Frank.

The commotion was as if a thunderbolt had descended among the elders.  What they had been thinking
of, I cannot tell, not to have perceived how matters were tending; but their minds were full
of the Reform Bill and the state of the country, and, besides, we were all looked on still
as mere children.  Indeed, Griff was scarcely one- and-twenty, and Ellen wanted a month of
seventeen; and the crisis had really been a sudden impulse, as he said, 'She looked so sweet
and lovely, he could not help it.'

The first effect was a serious lecture upon maidenliness and propriety to poor Ellen from her
mother, who was sure that she must have transgressed the bounds of discretion, or such ill-bred
presumption would have been spared her, and bitterly regretted the having trusted her to take
care of herself.  There were sufficient grains of truth in this to make the poor girl cry herself
out of all condition for appearing at breakfast or luncheon, and Emily's report of her despair
made us much more angry with Mrs. Fordyce than was perhaps quite due to that good lady.

My parents were at first inclined to take the same line, and be vexed with Griff for an act
of impertinence towards a guest.  He had a great deal of difficulty in inducing the elders
to believe him in earnest, or treat him as a man capable of knowing his own mind; and even
thus they felt as if his addresses to Miss Fordyce were, under present circumstances, taking
almost an unfair advantage of the other family--at which our youthful spirits felt indignant.

Yet, after all, such a match was as obvious and suitable as if it had been a family compact,
and the only objection was the youth of the parties.  Mrs. Fordyce would fain have believed
her daughter's heart to be not yet awake, and was grieved to find childhood over, and the hero
of romance become the lover; and she was anxious that full time should be given to perceive
whether her daughter's feelings were only the result of the dazzling aureole which gratitude
and excited fancy had cast around the fine, handsome, winning youth.  Her husband, however,
who had himself married very young, and was greatly taken with Griff, besides being always
tender-hearted, did not enter into her scruples; but, as we had already found out, the grand-looking
and clever man of thirty-eight was, chiefly from his impulsiveness and good-nature, treated
as the boy of the family.  His old father, too, was greatly pleased with Griff's spirit, affection,
and purpose, as well as with my father's conduct in the matter; and so, after a succession
of private interviews, very tantalising to us poor outsiders, it was conceded that though an
engagement for the present was preposterous, it might possibly be permitted when Ellen was
eighteen if Griff had completed his university life with full credit.  He was fervently grateful
to have such an object set before him, and my father was warmly thankful for the stimulus.

That last evening was very odd and constrained.  We could not help looking on the lovers as
new specimens over which some strange transformation had passed, though for the present it
had stiffened them in public into the strictest good behaviour.  They would have been awkward
if it had been possible to either of them, and, save for a certain look in their eyes, comported
themselves as perfect strangers.

The three elder gentlemen held discussions in the dining-room, but we were not trusted in our
playground adjoining.  Mrs. Fordyce nailed Griff down to an interminable game at chess, and
my mother kept the two girls playing duets, while Clarence turned over the leaves; and I read
over The Lady of the Lake, a study which I always felt, and still feel, as an act of homage
to Ellen Fordyce, though there was not much in common between her and the maid of Douglas.
Indeed, it was a joke of her father's to tease her by criticising the famous passage about
the tears that old Douglas shed over his duteous daughter's head--'What in the world should
the man go whining and crying for?  He had much better have laughed with her.'

Little did the elders know what was going on in the next room, where there was a grand courtship
among the dolls; the hero being a small jointed Dutch one in Swiss costume, about an eighth
part of the size of the resuscitated Celestina Mary, but the only available male character
in doll-land!  Anne was supposed to be completely ignorant of what passed above her head; and
her mother would have been aghast had she heard the remarkable discoveries and speculations
that she and Martyn communicated to one another.

CHAPTER XXI--THE OUTSIDE OF THE COURTSHIP

'Or framing, as a fair excuse, The book, the pencil, or the muse; Something to give, to sing,
to say, Some modern tale, some ancient lay.'

SCOTT.

It seems to me on looking back that I have hardly done justice to Mrs. Fordyce, and certainly
we--as Griffith's eager partisans--often regarded her in the light of an enemy and opponent;
but after this lapse of time, I can see that she was no more than a prudent mother, unwilling
to see her fair young daughter suddenly launched into womanhood, and involved in an attachment
to a young and untried man.

The part of a drag is an invidious one; and this must have been her part through most of her
life.  The Fordyces, father and son, were of good family, gentlemen to their very backbones,
and thoroughly good, religious men; but she came of a more aristocratic strain, had been in
London society, and brought with her a high-bred air which, implanted on the Fordyce good looks,
made her daughter especially fascinating.  But that air did not recommend Mrs. Fordyce to all
her neighbours, any more than did those stronger, stricter, more thorough-going notions of
religious obligation which had led her husband to make the very real and painful sacrifice
of his sporting tastes, and attend to the parish in a manner only too rare in those days. 
She was a very well-informed and highly accomplished woman, and had made her daughter the same,
keeping her children up in a somewhat exclusive style, away from all gossip or undesirable
intimacies, as recommended by Miss Edgeworth and other more religious authorities, and which
gave great offence in houses where there were girls of the same age.  No one, however, could
look at Ellen, and doubt of the success of the system, or of the young girl's entire content
and perfect affection for her mother, though her father was her beloved playfellow--yet always
with respect.  She never took liberties with him, nor called him Pap or any other ridiculous
name inconsistent with the fifth Commandment, though she certainly was more entirely at ease
with him than ever we had been with our elderly father.  When once Mrs. Fordyce found on what
terms we were to be, she accepted them frankly and fully.  Already Emily had been the first
girl, not a relation, whose friendship she had fostered with Ellen; and she had also become
thoroughly affectionate and at home with my mother, who suited her perfectly on the conscientious,
and likewise on the prudent and sensible, side of her nature.

To me she was always kindness itself, so kind that I never felt, as I did on so many occasions,
that she was very pitiful and attentive to the deformed youth; but that she really enjoyed
my companionship, and I could help her in her pursuits.  I have a whole packet of charming
notes of hers about books, botany, drawings, little bits of antiquarianism, written with an
arch grace and finish of expression peculiarly her own, and in a very pointed hand, yet too
definite to be illegible.  I owe her more than I can say for the windows of wholesome hope
and ambition she opened to me, giving a fresh motive and zest even to such a life as mine.
I can hardly tell which was the most delightful companion, she or her husband.  In spite of
ill health, she knew every plant, and every bit of fair scenery in the neighbourhood, and had
fresh, amusing criticisms to utter on each new book; while he, not neglecting the books, was
equally well acquainted with all beasts and birds, and shed his kindly light over everything
he approached.  He was never melancholy about anything but politics, and even there it was
an immense consolation to him to have the owner of Chantry House staunch on the same side,
instead of in chronic opposition.

The family party moved to a tall house at Bath, but there still was close intercourse, for
the younger clergyman rode over every week for the Sunday duty, and almost always dined and
slept at Chantry House.  He acted as bearer of long letters, which, in spite of a reticulation
of crossings, were too expensive by post for young ladies' pocket-money, often exceeding the
regular quarto sheet.  It was a favourite joke to ask Emily what Ellen reported about Bath
fashions, and to see her look of scorn.  For they were a curious mixture, those girlish letters,
of village interests, discussion of books, and thoughts beyond their age; Tommy Toogood and
Prometheus; or Du Guesclin in the closest juxtaposition with reports of progress in Abercrombie
on the Intellectual Powers.  It was the desire of Ellen to prove herself not unsettled but
improved by love, and to become worthy of her ideal Griffith, never guessing that he would
have been equally content with her if she had been as frivolous as the idlest girl who lingered
amid the waning glories of Bath.

We all made them a visit there when Martyn was taken to a preparatory school in the place.
Mrs. Fordyce took me out for drives on the beautiful hills; and Emily and I had a very delightful
time, undisturbed by the engrossing claims of love-making.  Very good, too, were our friends,
after our departure, in letting Martyn spend Sundays and holidays with them, play with Anne
as before, say his Catechism with her to Mrs. Fordyce, and share her little Sunday lessons,
which had, he has since told, a force and attractiveness he had never known before, and really
did much, young as he was, in preparing the way towards the fulfilment of my father's design
for him.

When the Rectory was ready, and the family returned, it was high summer, and there were constant
meetings between the households.  No doubt there were the usual amount of trivial disappointments
and annoyances, but the whole season seems to me to have been bathed in sunlight.  The Reform
Bill agitations and the London mobs of which Clarence wrote to us were like waves surging beyond
an isle of peace.  Clarence had some unpleasant walks from the office.  Once or twice the shutters
had to be put up at Frith and Castleford's to prevent the windows from being broken; and once
Clarence actually saw our nation's hero, 'the Duke,' riding quietly and slowly through a yelling,
furious mob, who seemed withheld from falling on him by the perfect impassiveness of the eagle
face and spare figure. Moreover a pretty little boy, on his pony, suddenly pushed forward and
rode by the Duke's side, as if proud and resolute to share his peril.

'If Griffith had been there!' said Ellen and Emily, though they did not exactly know what they
expected him to have done.

The chief storms that drifted across our sky were caused by Mrs. Fordyce's resolution that
Griffith should enjoy none of the privileges of an accepted suitor before the engagement was
an actual fact.  Ellen was obedient and conscientious; and would neither transgress nor endure
to have her mother railed at by Griff's hasty tongue, and this affronted him, and led to little
breezes.

When people overstay their usual time, tempers are apt to get rather difficult.  Griffith had
kept all his terms at Oxford, and was not to return thither after the long vacation, but was
to read with a tutor before taking his degree.  Moreover bills began to come from Oxford, not
very serious, but vexing my father and raising annoyances and frets, for Griff resented their
being complained of, and thought himself ill-used, going off to see his own friends whenever
he was put out.

One morning at breakfast, late in October, he announced that Lady Peacock was in lodgings at
Clifton, and asked my mother to call on her.  But mamma said it was too far for the horse--she
visited no one at that distance, and had never thought much of Selina Clarkson before or after
her marriage.

'But now that she is a widow, it would be such a kindness,' pleaded Griff.

'Depend upon it, a gay young widow needs no kindness from me, and had better not have it from
you,' said my mother, getting up from behind her urn and walking off, followed by my father.

Griff drummed on the table.  'I wonder what good ladies of a certain age do with their charity,'
he said.

And while we were still crying out at him, Ellen Fordyce and her father appeared, like mirth
bidding good-morrow, at the window.  All was well for the time, but Griff wanted Ellen to set
out alone with him, and take their leisurely way through the wood-path, and she insisted on
waiting for her father, who had got into an endless discussion with mine on the Reform Bill,
thrown out in the last Session.  Griff tried to wile her on with him, but, though she consented
to wander about the lawn before the windows with him, she always resolutely turned at the great
beech tree.  Emily and I watched them from the window, at first amused, then vexed, as we could
see, by his gestures, that he was getting out of temper, and her straw bonnet drooped at one
moment, and was raised the next in eager remonstrance or defence.  At last he flung angrily
away from her, and went off to the stables, leaving her leaning against the gate in tears.
Emily, in an access of indignant sympathy, rushed out to her, and they vanished together into
the summer-house, until her father called her, and they went home together.

Emily told me that Ellen had struggled hard to keep herself from crying enough to show traces
of tears which her father could observe, and that she had excused Griff with all her might
on the plea of her own 'tiresomeness.'

We were all the more angry with him for his selfishness and want of consideration, for Ellen,
in her torrent of grief, had even disclosed that he had said she did not care for him--no one
really in love ever scrupled about a mother's nonsense, etc., etc.

We were resolved, like two sages, to give him a piece of our minds, and convince him that such
dutifulness was the pledge of future happiness, and that it was absolute cruelty to the rare
creature he had won, to try to draw her in a direction contrary to her conscience.

However, we saw him no more that day; and only learnt that he had left a message at the stables
that dinner was not to be kept waiting for him.  Such a message from Clarence would have caused
a great commotion; but it was quite natural and a matter of course from him in the eyes of
the elders, who knew nothing of his parting with Ellen.  However, there was annoyance enough,
when bedtime came, family prayers were over, and still there was no sign of him.  My father
sat up till one o'clock, to let him in, then gave it up, and I heard his step heavily mounting
the stairs.

CHAPTER XXII--BRISTOL DIAMONDS

'Stafford.  And you that are the King's friends, follow me.

Cade.  And you that love the Commons, follow me; We will not leave one lord, one gentleman,
Spare none but such as go in clouted shoon.'

Act I.  Henry VI.

The next day was Sunday, and no Griff appeared in the morning. Vexation, perhaps, prevented
us from attending as much as we otherwise might have done to Mr. Henderson when he told us
that there were rumours of a serious disturbance at Bristol; until Emily recollected that Griff
had been talking for some days past of riding over to see his friend in the cavalry regiment
there stationed, and we all agreed that it was most likely that he was there; and our wrath
began to soften in the belief that he might have been detained to give his aid in the cause
of order, though his single arm could not be expected to effect as much as at Hillside.

Long after dark we heard a horse's feet, and in another minute Griff, singed, splashed, and
battered, had hurried into the room-- 'It has begun!' he said.  'The revolution!  I have brought
her--Lady Peacock.  She was at Clifton, dreadfully alarmed.  She is almost at the door now,
in her carriage.  I'll just take the pony, and ride over to tell Eastwood in case he will call
out the Yeomanry.'

The wheels were to be heard, and everybody hastened out to receive Lady Peacock, who was there
with her maid, full of gratitude.  I heard her broken sentences as she came across the hall,
about dreadful scenes--frightful mob--she knew not what would have become of her but for Griffith--the
place was in flames when they left it-- the military would not act--Griffith had assured her
that Mr. and Mrs. Winslow would be so kind--as long as any place was a refuge

We really did believe we were at the outbreak of a revolution or civil war, and, all little
frets forgotten, listened appalled to the tidings; how the appearance of Sir Charles Wetherall,
the Recorder of Bristol, a strong opponent to the Reform Bill, seemed to have inspired the
mob with fury.  Griff and his friend the dragoon, while walking in Broad Street, were astonished
by a violent rush of riotous men and boys, hooting and throwing stones as the Recorder's carriage
tried to make its way to the Guildhall.  In the midst a piteous voice exclaimed -

'Oh, Griffith!  Mr. Griffith Winslow!  Is it you?' and Lady Peacock was seen retreating upon
the stone steps of a house either empty, or where the inhabitants were too much alarmed to
open the doors.  She was terribly frightened, and the two gentlemen stood in front of her till
the tumultuary procession had passed by.  She was staying in lodgings at Clifton, and had driven
in to Bristol to shop, when she thus found herself entangled in the mob.  They then escorted
her to the place where she was to meet her carriage, and found it for her with some difficulty.
Then, while the officer returned to his quarters, Griff accompanied her far enough on the way
to Clifton to see that everything was quiet before her, and then returned to seek out his friend.
The court at the Guildhall had had to be adjourned, but the rioters were hunting Sir Charles
to the Mansion-House. Griff was met by one of the Town Council, a tradesman with whom we dealt,
who, having perhaps heard of his prowess at Hillside, entreated him to remain, offering him
a bed, and saying that all friends of order were needed in such a crisis as this.  Griff wrote
a note to let us know what had become of him, but everything was disorganised, and we did not
get it till two days afterwards.

In the evening the mob became more violent, and in the midst of dinner a summons came for Griff's
host to attend the Mayor in endeavouring to disperse it.  Getting into the Mansion-House by
private back ways, they were able to join the Mayor when he came out, amid a shower of brickbats,
sticks, and stones, and read the Riot Act three times over, after warning them of the consequences
of persisting in their defiance.

'But they were far past caring for that,' said Griff.  'An iron rail from the square was thrown
in the midst of it, and if I had not caught it there would have been an end of his Worship.'

The constables, with such help as Griff and a few others could give them, defended the front
of the Mansion-House, while the Recorder, for whom they savagely roared, made his escape by
the roof to another house.  A barricade was made with beds, tables, and chairs, behind which
the defenders sheltered themselves, while volleys of stones smashed in the windows, and straw
was thrown after them.  But at last the tramp of horses' feet was heard, and the Dragoons came up.

'We thought all over then,' said Griff; 'but Colonel Brereton would not have a blow struck,
far less a shot fired!  He would have it that it was a good-humoured mob!  I heard him!  When
one of his own men was brought up badly hurt with a brickbat, I heard Ludlow, the Town-Clerk,
ask him what he thought of their good humour, and he had nothing to say but that it was an
accident!  And the rogues knew it! He took care they should; he walked about among them and
shook hands with them!'

Griff waited at the Mansion-House all night, and helped to board up the smashed windows; but
at daylight Colonel Brereton came and insisted on withdrawing the piquet on guard--not, however,
sending a relief for them, on the plea that they only collected a crowd.  The instant they
were withdrawn, down came the mob in fresh force, so desperate that all the defences were torn
down, and they swarmed in so that there was nothing for it but to escape over the roofs.

Griffith was sent to rouse the inhabitants of College Green and St. Augustine's Back to come
in the King's name to assist the Magistrates, and he had many good stories of the various responses
he met with.  But the rioters, inflamed by the wine they had found in sacking the Mansion-House,
and encouraged by the passiveness of the troops, had become entirely masters of the situation.
And Colonel Brereton seems to have imagined that the presence of the soldiers acted as an irritation;
for in this crisis he actually sent them out of the city to Keynsham, then came and informed
the mob, who cheered him, as well they might.

In the night the Recorder had left the city, and notices were posted to that effect; also that
the Riot Act had been read, and any further disturbance would be capital felony.  This escape
of their victim only had the effect of directing the rage of the populace against Bishop Grey,
who had likewise opposed the Reform Bill.

Messages had been sent to advise the Bishop, who was to preach that day at the Cathedral, to
stay away and sanction the omission of the service; but his answer to one of his clergy was--'These
are times in which it is necessary not to shrink from danger!  Our duty is to be at our post.'
And he also said, 'Where can I die better than in my own Cathedral?'

Since the bells were ringing, and it was understood that the Bishop was actually going to dare
the peril, Griff and others of the defenders decided that it was better to attend the service
and fill up the nave so as to hinder outrage.  He said it was a most strange and wonderful
service.  Chants and Psalms and Lessons and prayers going on their course as usual, but every
now and then in the pauses of the organ, a howl or yell of the voice of the multitude would
break on the ear through the thick walls.  Griff listened and hoped for a volley of musketry.
He was not tender-hearted!  But none came, and by the time the service was over, the mob had
been greatly reinforced and had broken into the prisons, set them on fire, and released the
prisoners.  They were mustering on College Green for an attack on the palace.  Griff aided
in guarding the entrance to the cloisters till the Bishop and his family had had time to drive
away to Almondsbury, four miles off, and then the rush became so strong that they had to give
way.  There was another great struggle at the door of the palace, but it was forced open with
a crowbar, while shouts rang out 'No King and no Bishops!'  A fire was made in the dining-room
with chairs and tables, and live coals were put into the beds, while the plunder went on.

Griff meantime had made his way to the party headed by the magistrates, and accompanied by
the dragoons, and the mob began to flee; but Colonel Brereton had given strict orders that
the soldiers should not fire, and the plunderers rallied, made a fire in the Chapter House,
and burnt the whole of the library, shouting with the maddest triumph.

They next attacked the Cathedral, intending to burn that likewise, but two brave gentlemen,
Mr. Ralph and Mr. Linne, succeeded in saving this last outrage, at the head of the better affected.

Griff had fought hard.  He was all over bruises which he really had never felt at the time,
scarcely even now, though one side of his face was turning purple, and his clothes were singed.
In a sort of council held at the repulse of the attack on the Cathedral, it had been decided
that the best thing he could do would be to give notice to Sir George Eastwood, in order that
the Yeomanry might be called out, since the troops were so strangely prevented from acting.
As he rode through Clifton, he had halted at Lady Peacock's, and found her in extreme alarm.
Indeed, no one could guess what the temper of the mob might be the next day, or whether they
might not fall upon private houses.  The Mansion-House, the prisons, the palace were all burning
and were an astounding sight, which terrified her exceedingly, and she was sending out right
and left to endeavour to get horses to take her away.  In common humanity, and for old acquaintance
sake, it was impossible not to help her, and Griff had delayed, to offer any amount of reward
in her name for posthorses, which he had at last secured.  Her own man-servant, whom she had
sent in quest of some, had never returned, and she had to set off without him, Griff acting
as outrider; but after the first there was no more difficulty about horses, and she had been
able to change them at the next stage.

We all thought the days of civil war were really begun, as the heads of this account were hastily
gathered; but there was not much said, only Mr. Frank Fordyce laid his hand on Griff's shoulder
and said, 'Well done, my boy; but you have had enough for to-day.  If you'll lend me a horse,
Winslow, I'll ride over to Eastwood.  That's work for the clergy in these times, eh?  Griffith
should rest.  He may be wanted to-morrow.  Only is there any one to take a note home for me,
to say where I'm gone;' and then he added with that sweet smile of his, 'Some one will be more
the true knight than ever, eh, you Griffith you--'

Griffith coloured a little, and Lady Peacock's eyes looked interrogative.  When the horse was
announced, Griff followed Mr. Fordyce into the hall, and came back announcing that, unless
summoned elsewhere, he should go to breakfast at Hillside, and so hear what was decided on.
He longed to be back at the scene of action, but was so tired out that he could not dispense
with another night's rest; though he took all precautions for being called up, in case of need.

However, nothing came, and he rode to the Rectory in Yeomanry equipment.  Nor could any one
doubt that in the ecstasy of meeting such a hero, all the little misunderstanding and grief
of the night before was forgotten?  Ellen looked as if she trod on air, when she came down
with her father to report that Griffith had gone, according to the orders sent, to join the
rest of the Yeomanry, who were to advance upon Bristol.  They had seen, and tried to turn back,
some of the villagers who were starting with bludgeons to share in the spoil, and who looked
sullen, as if they were determined not to miss their share.

I do not think we were very much alarmed for Griff's safety or for our own, not even the ladies.
My mother had the lion-heart of her naval ancestors, and Ellen was in a state of exaltation.
Would that I could put her before other eyes, as she stood with hands clasped and glowing cheek.

'Oh!--think!--think of having one among us who is as real and true knight as ever watched his
armour -

'"For king, for church, for lady fight!" It has all come gloriously true!'

'Should not you like to bind on his spurs?' I asked somewhat mischievously; but she was serious
as she said, 'I am sure he has won them.'  All the rest of the Fordyces came down afterwards,
too anxious to stay at home.  Our elders felt the matter more gravely, thinking of what civil
war might mean to us all, and what an awful thing it was for Englishmen to be enrolled against
each other. Nottingham Castle had just been burnt, and things looked only too like revolution,
especially considering the inaction of the dragoons.  After Griff had left Bristol, there had
been some terrible scenes at the Custom House, where the ringleaders--unhappy men!--were caught
in a trap of their own and perished miserably.

However, by the morning, the order sent from Lord Hill, the arrival of Major Beckwith from
Gloucester, and the proceedings of the good- humoured mob had put an end to poor Brereton's
hesitations; a determined front had been shown; the mob had been fairly broken up; troops from
all quarters poured into the city, and by dinner-time Griff came back with the news that all
was quiet and there was nothing more to fear.  Ellen and Emily both flew out to meet him at
the first sound of the horse's feet, and they all came into the drawing-room together--each
young lady having hold of one of his hands--and Ellen's face in such a glow, that I rather
suspect that he had snatched a reward which certainly would not have been granted save in such
a moment of uplifted feeling, and when she was thankful to her hero for forgetting how angry
he had been with her two days before.

Minor matters were forgotten in the details of his tidings, as he stood before the fire, shining
in his silver lace, and relating the tragedy and the comedy of the scene.

It was curious, as the evening passed on, to see how Ellen and Lady Peacock regarded each other,
now that the tension of suspense was over.  To Ellen, the guest was primarily a distressed
and widowed dame, delivered by Griff, to whom she, as his lady love, was bound to be gracious
and kind; nor had they seen much of one another, the elder ladies sitting in the drawing-room,
and we in our own regions; but we were all together at dinner and afterwards, and Lady Peacock,
who had been in a very limp, nervous, and terrified state all day, began to be the Selina Clarkson
we remembered, and 'more too.'  She was still in mourning, but she came down to dinner in gray
satin sheen, and with her hair in a most astonishing erection of bows and bands, on the very
crown of her head, raising her height at least four inches.  Emily assures me that it was the
mode in use, and that she and Ellen wore their hair in the same style, appealing to portraits
to prove it.  I can only say that they never astonished my weak mind in the like manner; and
that their heads, however dressed, only appeared to me a portion of the general woman, and
part of the universal fitness of things.  Ellen was likewise amazed, most likely not at the
hair, but at the transformation of the disconsolate, frightened widow, into the handsome, fashionable,
stylish lady, talking over London acquaintance and London news with my father and Griff whenever
they left the endless subject of the Bristol adventures.

The widow had gained a good deal in beauty since her early girlhood, having regular features,
eyes of an uncommon deep blue, very black brows, eye-lashes, and hair, and a form of the kind
that is better after early youth is over.  'A fine figure of a woman,' Parson Frank pronounced
her, and his wife, with the fine edge of her lips replied, 'exactly what she is!'

She looked upon us younger ones as mere children still--indeed she never looked at me at all
if she could help it--but she mortally offended Emily by penning her up in a corner, and asking
if Griff were engaged to that sentimental little girl.

Emily coloured like a turkey cock between wrath and embarrassment, and hotly protested against
the word sentimental.

'Ah yes, I see!' she said in a patronising tone, 'she is your bosom friend, eh?  That's the
way those things always begin.  You need not answer:  I see it all.  And no doubt it is a capital
thing for him; properties joining and all.  And she will get a little air and style when he
takes her to London.'  It was a tremendous offence even to hint that Ellen's style was capable
of improvement; perhaps an unprejudiced eye would have said that the difference was between
high-bred simplicity and the air of fashion and society.

In our eyes Lady Peacock was the companion of the elders, and as such was appreciated by the
gentlemen; but neither of the two mothers was equally delighted with her, nor was mine at all
sorry when, on Tuesday, the boxes were packed, posthorses sent for, and my Lady departed, with
great expressions of thankfulness to us all.

'A tulip to a jessamine,' muttered Griff as she drove off, and he looked up at his Ellen's
sweet refined face.

The unfortunate Colonel Brereton put an end to himself when the court-martial was half over.
How Clarence was shocked and how ardent was his pity!  But Griffith received the thanks of
the Corporation of Bristol for his gallant conduct, when the special assize was held in January.
Mrs. Fordyce was almost as proud of him as we were, and there was much less attempt at restraining
the terms on which he stood with Ellen--though still the formal engagement was not permitted.

CHAPTER XXIII--QUICKSANDS

   'Whither shall I go?
Where shall I hide my forehead and my eyes?'

TENNYSON.

It was in the May of the ensuing year, 1832, that Clarence was sent down to Bristol for a few
weeks to take the place of one of the clerks in the office where the cargoes of the incoming
vessels of the firm were received and overhauled.

This was a good-natured arrangement of Mr. Castleford's in order to give him change of work
and a sight of home, where, by the help of the coach, he could spend his Sundays.  That first
spring day on his way down was a great delight and even surprise to him, who had never seen
our profusion of primroses, cowslips, and bluebells, nor our splendid blossom of trees--apple,
lilac, laburnum--all vieing in beauty with one another.  Emily conducted him about in great
delight, taking him over to Hillside to see Mrs. Fordyce's American garden, blazing with azaleas,
and glowing with rhododendrons.  He came back with a great bouquet given to him by Ellen, who
had been unusually friendly with him, and he was more animated and full of life than for years
before.

Next time he came he looked less happy.  There was plenty of room in our house, but he used,
by preference, the little chamber within mine, and there at night he asked me to lend him a
few pounds, since Griffith had written one of his off-hand letters asking him to discharge
a little bill or two at Bristol, giving the addresses, but not sending the accounts.  This
was no wonder, since any enclosure doubled the already heavy postage.  One of these bills was
for some sporting equipments from the gunsmith's; another, much heavier, from a tavern for
breakfasts, or rather luncheons, to parties of gentlemen, mostly bearing date in the summer
and autumn of 1830, before the friendship with the Fordyces had begun.  On Clarence's defraying
the first and applying for the second, two more had come in, one from a jeweller for a pair
of drop-earrings, the other from a nurseryman for a bouquet of exotics.  Doubting of these
two last, Clarence had written to Griff, but had not yet received an answer. The whole amount
was so much beyond what he had been led to expect that he had not brought enough money to meet
it, and wanted an advance from me, promising repayment, to which latter point I could not assent,
as both of us knew, but did not say, we should never see the sum again, and to me it only meant
stinting in new books and curiosities.  We were anxious to get the matter settled at once,
as Griffith spoke of being dunned; and it might be serious, if the tradesmen applied to my
father when he was still groaning over revelations of college expenses.

On the ensuing Saturday, Clarence showed me Griff's answer--'I had forgotten these items. 
The earrings were a wedding present to the pretty little barmaid, who had been very civil.
The bouquet was for Lady Peacock; I felt bound to do something to atone for mamma's severe
virtue.  It is all right, you best of brothers.'

It was consolatory that all the dates were prior to the Hillside fire, except that of the bouquet.
As to the earrings, we all knew that Griff could not see a pretty girl without talking nonsense
to her.  Anyway, if they were a wedding present, there was an end of it; and we were only glad
to prevent any hint of them from reaching the ears of the authorities.

Clarence had another trouble to confide to me.  He had strong reason to believe that Tooke,
the managing clerk at Bristol, was carrying on a course of peculation, and feathering his nest
at the expense of the firm.  What a grand discovery, thought I, for such a youth to have made.
The firm would be infinitely obliged to him, and his fortune would be secured.  He shook his
head, and said that was all my ignorance; the man, Tooke, was greatly trusted, especially by
Mr. Frith the senior partner, and was so clever and experienced that it would be almost impossible
to establish anything against him. Indeed he had browbeaten Clarence, and convinced him at
the moment that his suspicions and perplexities were only due to the ignorance of a foolish,
scrupulous youth, who did not understand the customs and perquisites of an agency.  It was
only when Clarence was alone, and reflected on the matter by the light of experience gained
on a similar expedition to Liverpool, that he had perceived that Mr. Tooke had been throwing
dust in his eyes.

'I shall only get into a scrape myself,' said Clarence despondently. 'I have felt it coming
ever since I have been at Bristol;' and he pushed his hair back with a weary hopeless gesture.

'But you don't mean to let it alone?' I cried indignantly.

He hesitated in a manner that painfully recalled his failing, and said at last, 'I don't know;
I suppose I ought not.'

'Suppose?' I cried.

'It is not so easy as you think,' he answered, 'especially for one who has forfeited the right
to be believed.  I must wait till I have an opportunity of speaking to Mr. Castleford, and
then I can hardly do more than privately give him a hint to be watchful.  You don't know how
things are in such houses as ours.  One may only ruin oneself without doing any good.'

'You cannot write to him?'

'Certainly not.  He has taken his family to Mrs. Castleford's home in the north of Ireland
for a month or six weeks.  I don't know the address, and I cannot run the risk of the letter
being opened at the office.'

'Can't you speak to my father?'

'Impossible! it would be a betrayal.  He would do things for which I should never be forgiven.
And, after all, remember, it is no business of mine.  I know of agents at the docks who do
such things as a matter of course.  It is only that I happen to know that Harris at Liverpool
does not.  Very possibly old Frith knows all about it. I should only get scored down as a meddlesome
prig, worse hypocrite than they think me already.'

He said a good deal more to this effect, and I remember exclaiming, 'Oh, Clarence, the old
story!' and then being frightened at the whiteness that came over his face.

Little did I know the suffering to which those words of mine condemned him.  For not only had
he to make up his mind to resistance, which to his nature was infinitely worse than it was
to Griffith to face a raging mob, but he knew very well that it would almost inevitably produce
his own ruin, and renew the disgrace out of which he was beginning to emerge.  I did not--even
while I prayed that he might do the right--guess at his own agony of supplication, carried
on incessantly, day and night, sleeping and waking, that the Holy Spirit of might should brace
his will and govern his tongue, and make him say the right thing at the right time, be the
consequences what they might.  No one, not constituted as he was, can guess at the anguish
he endured.  I knew no more.  Clarence did not come home the next Saturday, to my mother's
great vexation; but on Tuesday a small parcel was given to me, brought from our point of contact
with the Bristol coach.  It contained some pencils I had asked him to get, and a note marked
PRIVATE.  Here it is -

'DEAR EDWARD--I am summoned to town.  Tooke has no doubt forestalled me.  We have had some
curious interviews, in which he first, as I told you, persuaded me out of my senses that it
was all right, and then, finding me still dissatisfied, tried in a delicate fashion to apprise
me that I had a claim to a share of the plunder.  When I refused to appropriate anything without
sanction from headquarters, he threatened me with the consequences of presumptuous interference.
It came to bullying at last.  I hardly know what I answered, but I don't think I gave in. 
Now, a sharp letter from old Frith recalls me.  Say nothing at home; and whatever you do, do
not betray Griff. He has more to lose than I.  Help me in the true way, as you know how.--Ever
yours, W. C. W.

I need not dwell on the misery of those days.  It was well that my father had ruled that our
letters should not be family property. Here were all the others discussing a proposed tour
in the north of Devon, to be taken conjointly with the Fordyces, as soon as Griff should come
home.  My mother said it would do me good; she saw I was flagging, but she little guessed at
the continual torment of anxiety, and my wonder at the warning about Griff.

At the end of the week came another letter.

'You need not speak yet.  Papa and mamma will know soon enough.  I brought down 150 pounds
in specie, to be paid over to Tooke.  He avers that only 130 pounds was received.  What is
my word worth against his?  I am told that if I am not prosecuted it will only be out of respect
to my father.  I am not dismissed yet, but shall get notice as soon as letters come from Ireland.
I have written, but it is not in the nature of things that Mr. Castleford should not accept
such proofs as have been sent him.  I have no hope, and shall be glad when it is over.  The
part of black sheep is not a pleasant one.  Say not a word, and do not let my father come up.
He could do no good, and to see him believing it all would be the last drop in the bucket.

N.B.--In this pass, nothing would be saved by bringing Griff into it, so be silent on your
life.  Innocence does not seem to be much comfort at present.  Maybe it will come in time.
I know you will not drop me, dear Ted, wherever I may be.'

Need I tell the distress of those days of suspense and silence, when my only solace was in
being left alone, and in writing letters to Clarence which were mostly torn up again.

My horror was lest he should be driven to go off to the sea, which he loved so well, knowing,
as nobody else did, the longing that sometimes seized him for it, a hereditary craving that
curiously conflicted with the rest of his disposition; and, indeed, his lack was more of moral
than of physical courage.  It haunted me constantly that his entreaty that my father should
not come to London was a bad sign, and that he would never face such another return home. 
And was I justified in keeping all this to myself, when my father's presence might save him
from the flight that would indeed be the surrender of his character, and to the life of a common
sailor?  Never have I known such leaden days as these, yet the misery was not a tithe of what
Clarence was undergoing.

I was right in my forebodings.  Prosecution and a second return home in shame and disgrace
were alike hideous to Clarence, and the present was almost equally terrible, for nobody at
the office had any doubt of his guilt, and the young men who had sneered at his strictness
and religious habits regarded him as an unmasked hypocrite, only waiting on sufferance till
his greatly deceived patron should write to decide on the steps to be taken with him, while
he knew he was thought to be brazening it out in hopes of again deceiving Mr. Castleford.

The sea began to exert its power over him, and he thought with longing of its freedom, as if
the sails of the vessels were the wings of a dove to flee away and be at rest.  He had no illusions
as to the roughness of the life and companionship; but in his present mood, the frank rudeness
and profanity of the sailors seemed preferable to his cramped life, and the scowls of his fellows;
and he knew himself to have seamanship enough to rise quickly, even if he could not secure
a mate's berth at first.

Mr. Castleford could not be heard from till the end of the week. Friday, Saturday came and
not a word.  That was the climax!  When the consignment of cash, hitherto carried by Clarence
to the Bank of England, was committed to another clerk, the very office boy sniggered, and
the manager demonstratively waited to see him depart.

Unable to bear it any longer, he walked towards Wapping, bought a Southwester, examined the
lists of shipping, and entered into conversation with one or two sailors about the vessels
making up their crews; intending to go down after dark, to meet the skipper of a craft bound
for Lisbon, who, he heard, was so much in want of a mate as perhaps to overlook the lack of
testimonials, and at any rate take him on board on Sunday.

Going home to pick up a few necessaries, a book lent to him by Miss Newton came in his way,
and he felt drawn to carry it home, and see her face for the last time.

All unconscious of his trouble and of his intentions, the good lady told him of her strong
desire to hear a celebrated preacher at a neighbouring church on the Sunday evening, but said
that in her partial blindness and weakness, she was afraid to venture, unless he would have
the extreme goodness, as she said, to take care of her. He saw that she wished it so much that
he had not the heart to refuse, and he recollected likewise that very early on Monday morning
would answer his purpose equally well.

It was the 7th of June.  The Psalm was the 37th--the supreme lesson of patience.  'Hold thee
still in the Lord; and abide patiently on Him; and He shall bring it to pass.  He shall make
thy righteousness as clear as the light, and thy just dealing as the noonday.'

The awful sense of desolation seemed to pass away under those words, with that gentle woman
beside him.  But it was borne in upon him that his purpose of flight was 'the old story,'--cowardice
and virtual distrust of the Lord, as well as absolute cruelty to us who loved him.

When he had deposited Miss Newton at her own door, he whispered thanks, and an entreaty for
her prayers.

And then he went home, and fought the battle of his life, with his own horrible dread of Mr.
Castleford's disappointment; of possible prosecution; of the shame at home; the misery of a
life a second time blighted.  He fought it out on his knees, many a time persuading himself
that flight would not be a sin, then returning to the sense that it was a temptation of his
worse self to be overcome. And by morning he knew that it would be a surrender of himself to
his lower nature, and the evil spirit behind it; while, by facing the worst that could befall
him, he would be falling into the hand of the Lord.

All the rest of the family were out, and I was relieved by being alone with my distress, not
forced to hide it, when the door opened and 'Mr. Castleford' was announced.  After one moment's
look at me, one touch of my hand, he must have seen that I was faint with anxiety, and said,
'It is all right, Edward; I see you know all.  I am come from Bristol to tell your father that
he may be proud of his son Clarence.'

I don't know what I did.  Perhaps I sobbed and cried, but the first words I could get out were,
'Does he know?  Oh! it may be too late. He may be gone off to sea!' I cried, breaking out with
my chief fear.  Mr. Castleford looked astounded, then said, 'I trust not.  I sent off a special
messenger last night, as soon as I saw my way--'

Then I breathed a little more freely, and could understand what he was telling me, namely,
that Tooke had accused Clarence of abstracting 20 pounds from the sum in his charge.  The fellow
accounted for it by explaining that young Winslow had been paying extravagant bills at a tavern,
where the barmaid showed his presents, and boasted of her conquest.  All this had been written
to Mr. Castleford by his partner, and he was told that it was out of deference to himself that
his protege was not in custody, nor had received notice of dismissal; but, no doubt, he would
give his sanction to immediate measures, and communicate with the family.

The effect had been to make the good man hurry at once from the Giant's Causeway to Bristol,
where he had arrived on Sunday, to investigate the books and examine the underlings.  In the
midst Tooke attempted to abscond, but he was brought back as he was embarking in an American
vessel; and he then confessed the whole,-- how speculation had led to dishonesty, and following
evil customs not uncommon in other firms.  Then, when the fugitive found that young Winslow
was too acute to be blinded, and that it had been a still greater mistake to try to overcome
his integrity, self-defence required his ruin, or at any rate his expulsion, before he could
gain Mr. Castleford's ear.

Tooke really believed that the discreditable bills were the young man's own, and proofs of
concealed habits of dissipation; but this excellent man had gone into the matter, repaired
to the tradesfolk, learnt the date, and whose the accounts really were, and had even hunted
up the barmaid, who was not married after all, and had no hesitation in avowing that her beau
had been the handsome young Yeomanry lieutenant.  Mr. Castleford had spent the greater part
of Monday in this painful task, but had not been clear enough till quite late in the evening
to despatch an express to his partner, and to Clarence, whom he desired to meet him here.

'He has acted nobly,' said our kind friend.  'His only error seems to have been in being too
good a brother.'

This made me implore that nothing should be said about Griffith's bills, showing those injunctions
of Clarence's which had so puzzled me, and explaining the circumstances.

Mr. Castleford hummed and hawed, and perhaps wished he had seen my father before me; but I
prevailed at last, and when the others came in from their drive, there was nothing to alloy
the intelligence that Clarence had shown rare discernment, as well as great uprightness, steadfastness,
and moral courage.

My mother, when she had taken in the fact, actually shed tears of joy.  Emily stood by me,
holding my hand.  My father said, 'It is all owing to you, Castleford, and the helping hand
you gave the poor boy.'

'Nay,' was the answer, 'it seems to me that it was owing to his having the root of the matter
in him to overcome his natural failings.'

Still, in all the rejoicing, my heart failed me lest the express should have come too late,
and Clarence should be already on the high seas, for there had been no letter from him on Sunday
morning. It was doubtful whether Mr. Castleford's messenger could reach London in time for
tidings to come down by the coach--far less did we expect Clarence--and we had nearly finished
the first course at dinner, when we heard the front door open, and a voice speaking to the
butler.  Emily screamed 'It's he!  Oh mamma, may I?' and flew out into the hall, dragging in
a pale, worn and weary wight, all dust and heat, having travelled down outside the coach on
a broiling day, and walked the rest of the way.  He looked quite bewildered at the rush at
him; my father's 'Well done, Clarence,' and strong clasp; and my mother's fervent kiss, and
muttered something about washing his hands.

Formal folks, such as we were, had to sit in our chairs; and when he came back apologising
for not dressing, as he had left his portmanteau for the carrier, he looked so white and ill
that we were quite shocked, and began to realise what he had suffered.  He could not eat the
food that was brought back for him, and allowed that his head was aching dreadfully; but, after
a glass of wine had been administered, it was extracted that he had met Mr. Frith at the office
door, and been gruffly told that Mr. Castleford was satisfied, and he might consider himself
acquitted.

'And then I had your letter, sir, thank you,' said Clarence, scarcely restraining his tears.

'The thanks are on our side, my dear boy,' said Mr. Castleford.  'I must talk it over with
you, but not till you have had a night's rest.  You look as if you had not known one for a
good while.'

Clarence gave a sort of trembling smile, not trusting himself to speak.  Approbation at home
was so new and strange to him that he could scarcely bear it, worn out as he was by nearly
a month of doubt, distress, apprehension, and self-debate.

My mother went herself to hasten the preparation of his room, and after she had sent him to
bed went again to satisfy herself that he was comfortable and not feverish.  She came back
wiping away a tear, and saying he had looked up at her just as when she had the three of us
in our nursery cribs.  In truth these two had seldom been so happy together since those days,
though the dear mother, while thankful that he had not failed, was little aware of the conflict
his resolution had cost him, and the hot journey and long walk came in for more blame for his
exhaustion than they entirely deserved.

My father perhaps understood more of the trial; for when she came back, declaring that all
that was needed was sleep, and forbidding me to go to my room before bedtime, he said he must
bid the boy good-night.

And he spoke as his reserve would have never let him speak at any other time, telling Clarence
how deeply thankful he felt for the manifestation of such truthfulness and moral courage as
he said showed that the man had conquered the failings of the boy.

Nevertheless, when I retired for the night, it was to find Clarence asleep indeed, but most
uneasily, tossing, moaning, and muttering broken sentences about 'disgracing his pennant,'
'never bearing to see mamma's face'--and the like.  I thought it a kindness to wake him, and
he started up.  'Ted, is it you?  I thought I should never hear your dear old crutch again!
Is it really all right'--then, sitting up and passing his hand over his face, 'I always mix
it up with the old affair, and think the court-martial is coming again.'

'There's all the difference now.'

'Thank God! yes--He has dragged me through!  But it did not seem so in one's sleep, nor waking
neither--though sleep is worst, and happily there was not much of that!  Sit down, Ted; I want
to look at you.  I can't believe it is not three weeks since I saw you last.'

We talked it all out, and I came to some perception of the fearful ordeal it had been--first,
in the decision neither to shut his eyes, nor to conceal that they were open; and then in the
lack of presence of mind and the sense of confusion that always beset him when browbeaten and
talked down, so that, in the critical contest with Tooke, he felt as if his feet were slipping
from under him, and what had once been clear to him was becoming dim, so that he had only been
assured that he had held his ground by Tooke's redoubled persuasions and increased anger. 
And for a clerk, whose years were only twenty-one, to oppose a manager, who had been in the
service more than the whole of that space, was preposterous insolence, and likely to result
in the utter ruin of his own prospects, and the character he had begun to retrieve.  It was
just after this, the real crisis, that he had the only dream which had not been misery and
distress.  In it she--she yonder--yes, the lady with the lamp, came and stood by him, and said,
'Be steadfast.'

'It was a dream,' said Clarence.  'She was not as she is in the mullion room, not crying, but
with a sweet, sad look, almost like Miss Fordyce--if Miss Fordyce ever looked sad.  It was
only a dream.'

Yet it had so refreshed and comforted him that we have often since discussed whether the spirit
really visited him, or whether this was the manner in which conscience and imagination acted
on his brain. Indeed, he always believed that the dream had been either heaven- sent or heaven-permitted.

The die had been cast in that interview when he had let it be seen that he was dangerous, and
could not be bought over.  The after consequences had been the terrible distress and temptation
I have before described, only most inadequately.  'But that,' said Clarence, half smiling,
'only came of my being such a wretched creature as I am.  There, dear old Miss Newton saved
me--yes, she did--most unconsciously, dear old soul.  Don't you remember how Griff used to
say she maundered over the text.  Well, she did it all the way home in my ear, as she clung
to my arm--"Be strong, and He shall comfort thine heart."  And then I knew my despair and determination
to leave it all behind were a temptation--"the old story," as you told me, and I prayed God
to help me, and just managed to fight it out.  Thank God for her!'

If it had not been for that good woman, he would have been out of reach--already out in the
river--before Mr. Castleford's messenger had reached London!  He might call himself a poor
creature--and certainly a man of harder, bolder stuff would not have fared so badly in the
strife; but it always seemed to me in after years that much of what he called the poor creature--the
old, nervous, timid, diffident self--had been shaken off in that desperate struggle, perhaps
because it had really given him more self-reliance, and certainly inspired others with confidence
in him.

We talked late enough to have horrified my mother, but I did not leave him till he was sleeping
like a child, nor did he wake till I was leaving the room at the sound of the bell.  It was
alleged that it was the first time in his life that he had been late for prayers. Mr. Castleford
said he was very glad, and my mother, looking severely at me, said she knew we had been talking
all night, and then went off to satisfy herself whether he ought to be getting up.

There was no doubt on that score, for he was quite himself again, though he was, in looks and
in weariness, just as if he had recovered from a bad illness, or, as he put it himself, he
felt as tired and bruised as if he had been in a stiff gale.  Mr. Castleford was sorry to be
obliged to ask him to go through the whole matter with him in the study, and the result was
that he was pronounced to have an admirable head for business, as well as the higher qualities
that had been put to the test.  After that his good friend insisted that he should have a long
and complete holiday, at first proposing to take him to Ireland, but giving the notion up on
hearing of our projected excursion to the north of Devon.  Pending this, Clarence was, for
nearly a week, fit for nothing but lying on the grass in the shade, playing with the cats and
dogs, or with little Anne, looking over our drawings, listening to Wordsworth, our reigning
idol,--and enjoying, with almost touching gratitude, the first approach to petting that had
ever fallen to his share.

The only trouble on his mind was the Quarter-Session.  Mr. Castleford would hardly have prosecuted
an old employe, but Mr. Frith was furious, and resolved to make an example.  Tooke had, however,
so carefully entrenched himself that nothing could be actually made a subject of prosecution
but the abstraction of the 20 pounds of which he had accused Clarence, who had to prove the
having received and delivered it.

It was a very painful affair, and Tooke was sentenced to seven years' transportation.  I believe
he became a very rich and prosperous man in New South Wales, and founded a family.  My father
received warm compliments upon his sons, and Clarence had the new sensation of being honourably
coupled with Griffith, though he laughed at the idea of mere honesty with fierce struggles
being placed beside heroism with no struggle at all.

CHAPTER XXV--HOLIDAY-MAKING

'The child upon the mountain side
   Plays fearless and at ease,
While the hush of purple evening
   Spreads over earth and seas.
The valley lies in shadow,
   But the valley lies afar;
And the mountain is a slope of light
   Upreaching to a star.'

MENELLA SMEDLEY.

How pleasant it was to hear Griffith's cheery voice, as he swung himself down, out of a cloud
of dust, from the top of the coach at the wayside stage-house, whither Clarence and I had driven
in the new britshka to meet him.  While the four fine coach-horses were led off, and their
successors harnessed in almost the twinkling of an eye, Griff was with us; and we did nothing
but laugh and poke fun at each other all the way home, without a word of graver matters.

I was resolved, however, that Griff should know how terribly his commission had added to Clarence's
danger, and how carefully the secret had been guarded; and the first time I could get him alone,
I told him the whole.

The effect was one of his most overwhelming fits of laughter.  'Poor old Bill!  To think of
his being accused of gallanting about with barmaids!' (an explosion at every pause) 'and revelling
with officers!  Poor old Bill! it was as bad as Malvolio himself.'

When, indignant at the mirth excited by what had nearly cost us so dear, I observed that these
items had nearly turned the scale against our brother, Griff demanded how we could have been
such idiots as not to have written to him; I might at least have had the sense to do so.  As
to its doing him harm at Hillside, Parson Frank was no fool, and knew what men were made of!
Griff would have taken the risk, come at once, and thrust the story down the fellow's throat
(as indeed he would have done).  The idea of Betsy putting up with a pious young man like Bill,
whose only flame had ever been old Miss Newton!  And he roared again at the incongruous pair.
'Oh, wasn't she married after all, the hussy?  She always had a dozen beaux, and professed
to be on the point of putting up her banns; so if the earrings were not a wedding present,
they might have been, ought to have been, and would be some time or other.'

Then he patted me, and declared there was no occasion for my disgusted looks, for no one knew
better than himself that he had the best brace of brothers in existence, wanting in nothing
but common sense and knowledge of the world.  As to Betsy--faugh!  I need not make myself uneasy
about her; she knew what a civil word was worth much better than I did.

He showed considerable affection for Clarence after a fashion of his own, which we three perfectly
understood, and preferred to anything more conventional.  Griff was always delightful, and
he was especially so on that vacation, when every one was in high spirits; so that the journey
is, as I look back on it, like a spot of brilliant sunshine in the distant landscape.

Mrs. Fordyce kept house with her father-in-law, little Anne, and Martyn, whose holidays began
a week after we had started.  The two children were allowed to make a desert island and a robbers'
cave in the beech wood; and the adventures which their imaginations underwent there completely
threw ours into the shade.

The three ladies and I started in the big Hillside open carriage, with my brothers on the box
and the two fathers on horseback.  Frank Fordyce was a splendid rider, as indeed was the old
rector, who had followed the hounds, made a leap over a fearful chasm, still known as the Parson's
Stride, and had been an excellent shot.  The renunciation of field sports had been a severe
sacrifice to Frank Fordyce, and showed of what excellent stuff he was made.  He used to say
that it was his own fault that he had to give them up; another man would have been less engrossed
by them.  Though he only read by fits and starts when his enthusiasm was excited, he was thorough,
able, and acute, and his intelligence and sympathy were my father's best compensation for the
loss of London society.

The two riders were a great contrast.  Mr. Winslow had the thoroughly well-appointed, somewhat
precise, and highly-polished air of a barrister, and a thin, somewhat worn and colourless face,
with grizzled hair and white whiskers; and though he rode well, with full command of his horse,
he was old enough to have chosen Chancery for her sterling qualities.  Parson Frank, on the
other hand, though a thorough gentleman, was as ruddy and weather-browned as any farmer, and--albeit
his features were handsome and refined, and his figure well poised and athletic--he lost something
of dignity by easiness of gesture and carelessness of dress, except on state occasions, when
he discarded his beloved rusty old coat and Oxford mixture trousers, and came out magnificent
enough for an archdeacon, if not an archbishop; while his magnificent horse, Cossack, was an
animal that a sporting duke might have envied.

Nothing ever tired that couple, but my father had stipulated for exchanges with Griffith. 
On these occasions it almost invariably happened that there was a fine view for Ellen to see,
so that she was exalted to the box with Griffith to show it to her, and Chancery was consigned
to Clarence.  Griff was wont to say that Chancery deserved her name, and that he would defy
the ninety-ninth part of a tailor to come to harm with her; but Clarence was utterly unpractised
in riding, did not like it, was tormented lest Cossack's antics should corrupt Chancery, and
was mortally afraid of breaking the knees of the precious mare.  Not all Parson Frank's good
advice and kindly raillery would induce him to risk riding her on a descent; and as our travels
were entirely up and down hill, he was often left leading her far behind, in hot sun or misty
rain, and then would come cantering hastily up, reckless of parallels with John Gilpin, and
only anxious to be in time to help me out at the halting-place; but more than once only coming
in when the beefsteaks were losing their first charm, and then good-humouredly serving as the
general butt for his noble horsemanship.  Did any one fully comprehend how much pleasanter
our journey was through the presence of one person entirely at the service of the others? 
For my own part, it made an immense difference to have one pair of strong arms and dextrous
well-accustomed hands always at my service, enabling me to accomplish what no one else, kind
as all were, would have ventured on letting me attempt.  Primarily, he was my devoted slave;
but he was at the beck and call of every one, making the inquiries, managing the bargains,
going off in search of whatever was wanting-- taking in fact all the 'must be dones' of the
journal.  The contemplation of Cossack and Chancery being rubbed down, and devouring their
oats was so delightful to Frank Fordyce and Griffith that they seldom wished to shirk it; but
if there were any more pleasing occupation, it was a matter of course that Clarence should
watch to see that the ostlers did their duty by the animals--an obsolete ceremony, by the bye.
He even succeeded in hunting up and hiring a side saddle when the lovers, with the masterfulness
of their nature, devised appropriating the horses at all the most beautiful places, in spite
of Frank's murmur, 'What will mamma say?' But, as Griff said, it was a real mercy, for Ellen
was infinitely more at her ease with Chancery than was Clarence.  Then Emily had Clarence to
walk up the hills with her, and help her in botany--her special department in our tour.  Mine
was sketching, Ellen's, keeping the journal, though we all shared in each other's work at times;
and Griff, whose line was decidedly love-making, interfered considerably with us all, especially
with our chronicler.  I spare you the tour, young people; it lies before me on the table, profusely
illustrated and written in many hands.  As I turn it over, I see noble Dunster on its rock;
Clarence leading Chancery down Porlock Hill; Parson Frank in vain pursuit of his favourite
ancient hat over that wild and windy waste, the sheep running away from him; a boat tossing
at lovely Minehead; a 'native' bargaining over a crab with my mother; the wonderful Valley
of Rocks, and many another scene, ludicrous or grand; for, indeed, we were for ever taking
the one step between the sublime and the ridiculous!  I am inclined to believe it is as well
worth reading as many that have rushed into print, and it is full of precious reminiscences
to Emily and me; but the younger generation may judge for itself, and it would be an interruption
here.  The country we saw was of utterly unimagined beauty to the untravelled eyes of most
of us.  I remember Ellen standing on Hartland Point, with her face to the infinite expanse
of the Atlantic, and waving back Griff with 'Oh, don't speak to me.' Yet the sea was a delight
above all to my mother and Clarence.  To them it was a beloved friend; and magnificent as was
Lynmouth, wonderful as was Clovelly, and glorious as was Hartland, I believe they would equally
have welcomed the waves if they had been on the flattest of muddy shores!  The ripple, plash,
and roar were as familiar voices, the salt smell as native air; and my mother never had thawed
so entirely towards Clarence as when she found him the only person who could thoroughly participate
her feeling.

At Minehead they stayed out, walking up and down together in the summer twilight till long
after every one else was tired out, and had gone in; and when at last they appeared she was
leaning on Clarence's arm, an unprecedented spectacle!

At Appledore, the only place on that rugged coast where boating tempted them, there was what
they called a pretty little breeze, but quite enough to make all the rest of us decline venturing
out into Bideford bay.  They, however, found a boatman and made a trip, which was evidently
such enjoyment to them, that my father, who had been a little restless and uneasy all the time,
declared on their return that he felt quite jealous of Neptune, and had never known what a
cruelty he was committing in asking a sea-nymph to marry a London lawyer.

Mr. Fordyce told him he was afraid of being like the fisherman who wedded a mermaid, and made
Ellen tell the story in her own pretty way; but while we were laughing over it, I saw my mother
steal her hand into my father's and give it a strong grasp.  Such gestures, which she denominated
pawing, when she witnessed them in Emily, were so alien to her in general that no doubt this
little action was infinitely expressive to her husband.  She was wonderfully softened, and
Clarence implied to me that it was the first time she had ever seemed to grieve for him more
than she despised him, or to recognise his deprivation more than his disgrace,--implied, I
say, for the words he used were little more than--'You can't think how nice she was to me.'

The regaining of esteem and self-respect was lessening Clarence's bashfulness, and bringing
out his powers of conversation, so that he began to be appreciated as a pleasant companion,
answering Griff's raillery in like fashion, and holding his own in good-natured repartee. 
Mr. Fordyce got on excellently with him in their tete-a- tetes (who would not with Parson Frank?),
and held him in higher estimation than did Ellen.  To her, honesty was common, tame, and uninteresting
in comparison with heroism; and Griff's vague statement that Clarence was the best brother
in the world did not go for much.  Emily and I longed to get the two better acquainted, but
it did not become possible while Griff absorbed the maiden as his exclusive property.

The engagement was treated as an avowed and settled thing, though I do not know that there
had been a formal ratification by the parents; but in truth Mrs. Fordyce must have tacitly
yielded her consent when she permitted her daughter to make the journey under the guardianship
of Parson Frank.  After a walk in the ravine of Lynton, we became aware of a ring upon Ellen's
finger; and Emily was allowed at night to hear how and when it had been put on.

Ellen only slightly deepened her lovely carnation tints when her father indulged in a little
tender teasing and lamentation over himself.  She was thoroughly happy and proud of her hero,
and not ashamed of owning it.

There was one evening when she and I were sitting with our sketchbooks in the shade on the
beech at Ilfracombe, while the rest had gone, some to bathe, the others to make purchases in
the town. We had been condoling with one another over the impossibility of finding anything
among our water-colours that would express the wondrous tints before our eyes.

'No, nothing can do it,' I said at last; 'we can only make a sort of blot to assist our memories.'

'Sunshine outside and in!' said Ellen.  'The memory of such days as these can never fade away,--no,
nor thankfulness for them, I hope.'

Something then passed about the fact that it was quite possible to go on in complete content
in a quiet monotonous life, in an oyster- like way, till suddenly there was an unveiling and
opening of unimagined capacities of enjoyment--as by a scene like this before us, by a great
poem, an oratorio, or, as I supposed, by Niagara or the Alps.  Ellen put it--'Oh! and by feelings
for the great and good!'  Dear girl, her colour deepened, and I am sure she meant her bliss
in her connection with her hero.  We felt that the principal joy of all this beauty and delight
was because there was something beyond.  Presently Ellen said, prettily and shyly, 'I am sure
all this has opened much more to me than I ever thought of.  I always used to be glad that
we had no brothers, because our cousins were not always pleasant with us; but now I have learnt
what valuable possessions they are,' she added, with the sweetest, prettiest glance of her
bright eyes.

I ventured to say that I was glad she said they, and hoped it was a sign that she was finding
out Clarence.

'I have found out that I behaved so ill to him that I have been ashamed ever since to look
at him or speak to him,' said Ellen; 'I long to ask his pardon, but I believe that would distress
him more than anything.'

In which she was right; and I was able to tell her of the excuses there had been for the poor
boy, how he had suffered, and how he had striven to conquer his failings; and she replied that
the words 'Judge not, that ye be not judged,' always smote her with the remembrance of her
disdainfully cantering past him.  There was a tear on her eye-lashes, and it drew from me an
apology for having brought a painful recollection into our bright day.

'There must be shade to throw up the lights,' she said, with her sparkling look.

Was it shade that we never fell into one of these grave talks when Griffith was present, and
that the slightest approach to them was sure to be turned by him into jest?

We made our journey a little longer than we intended, crossing the moors so as to spend a Sunday
at Exeter; but Frank Fordyce left us, not liking to give his father the entire duty of a third
Sunday.

Emily says she has come to have a superstition that extensions of original plans never turn
out well, and certainly some of the charm of our journey departed with the merry, genial Parson
Frank.  Our mother was more anxious about Ellen, and put more restrictions on the lovers than
when the father was present to sanction their doings.  Griffith absolutely broke out against
her in a way he had never ventured before, when she forbade Ellen's riding with him when he
wanted to hire a horse at Lydford and take an excursion on the moor before joining us at Okehampton.

My father looked up, and said, 'Griffith, I am surprised at you.' He was constrained to mutter
some apology, and I believe Ellen privately begged my mother's pardon, owning her to have been
quite right; but, by the dear girl, the wonderful cascade and narrow gorge were seen through
swollen eyes.  And poor Clarence must have had a fine time of it when Griffith had to ride
off with him faute de mieux.

All was cleared off, however, when we met again, for Griff's storms were very fleeting, and
Ellen treated him as if she had to make her own peace with him.  She sacrificed her own enjoyment
of Exeter Cathedral to go about with him when he had had enough of it, but on Sunday afternoon
she altogether declined to walk with him till after the second service.  He laughed at her
supposed passion for sacred music, and offered to wait with her to hear the anthem from the
nave.  'No,' she said, 'that would be amusing ourselves instead of worshipping.'

'We've done our devoir in that way already,' said Griff.  'Paid our dues.'

'One can't,' cried Ellen, with an eager look.  'One longs to do all the more when He has just
let us have such a taste of His beautiful things.'

'ONE, perhaps, when one is a little saint,' returned Griff.

'Oh don't, Griff!  I'm not THAT; but you know every one wants all the help and blessing that
can be got.  And then it is so delightful!'

He gave a long whistle.  'Every one to his taste,' he said; 'especially you ladies.'

He did come to the Cathedral with us, but he had more than half spoilt this last Sunday.  Did
he value her for what was best in her, or was her influence raising him?

CHAPTER XXVI--C. MORBUS, ESQ.

C. Morbus, Esq.  Such was the card that some wicked wag, one of Clarence's fellow-clerks probably,
left at his lodgings in the course of the epidemic which was beginning its ravages even while
we were upon our pleasant journey--a shade indeed to throw out the light.

In these days, the tidings of a visitation of cholera are heard with compassion for crowded
towns, but without special alarm for ourselves or our friends, since its conditions and the
mode of combating it have come to be fairly understood.

In 1832, however, it was a disease almost unknown and unprecedented except in its Indian abode,
whence it had advanced city by city, seaport by seaport, sweeping down multitudes before it;
nor had science yet discovered how to encounter or forestall it.  We heard of it in a helpless
sort of way, as if it had been the plague or the Black Death, and thought of its victims as doomed.

That terrible German engraving, 'Death as a Foe,' which represents the grisly form as invading
a ballroom in Paris, is an expression of the feeling with which the scourge was regarded on
that first occasion.  Two Years Ago gives some notion of the condition of things in 1849, but
by that time there had been some experience, and means of prevention were better understood.
On the alarm in that year there was a great inspection of cottages throughout Earlscombe and
Hillside, but in 1832 there was no notion of such precautions. Nevertheless, on neither visitation,
nor any subsequent one, has the disease come nearer to us than Bristol.

As far as memory serves me, the idea was that wholesome food, regular habits, and cleanliness
were some protection, but one locality might be as dangerous as another.  There had been cases
in London all the spring, but no special anxiety was felt when Clarence returned to his work
in the end of July, much refreshed and invigorated by his holiday, and with the understanding
that he was to have a rise in position and salary on Mr. Castleford's return from Ireland,
where he was still staying with his wife's relations. Clarence was received at the office with
a kind of shamefaced cordiality, as if every one would fain forget the way in which he had
been treated; and he was struck by finding that all the talk was of the advances of the cholera,
chiefly at Rotherhithe.  And a great shock awaited him.  He went, as soon as business hours
were over, to thank good old Miss Newton for the comfort and aid she had unwittingly given
him, and to tell her from what she had saved him. Alas! it was the last benefit she was ever
to confer on her old pupil.  At the door he was told by a weeping, terrified maid that she
was very ill with cholera, and that no hope was given.  He tried to send up a message, but
she was in a state of collapse and insensible; and when he inquired the next morning, the gentle
spirit had passed away.

He attended her funeral that same evening.  Griff said it was a proof how your timid people
will do the most foolhardy things; but Clarence always held that the good woman had really
done more for him than any one in actually establishing a contact, so to say, between his spirit
and external truth, and he thought no mark of respect beyond her deserts.  She was a heavy
loss to him, for no one else in town gave him the sense of home kindness; and there was much
more to depress him, for several of his Sunday class were dead, and the school had been broken
up for the time, while the heats and the fruits of August contributed to raise the mortality.

His return had released a couple more clerks for their holiday; it was a slack time of year,
with less business in hand than usual, and the place looked empty.  Mr. Frith worked on as
usual, but preserved an ungracious attitude, as though he were either still incredulous or,
if convinced against his will, resolved that 'that prig of a Winslow' should not presume upon
his services.  Altogether the poor fellow was quite unhinged, and wrote such dismal bills of
mortality, and meek, resigned forebodings that my father was almost angry, declaring that he
would frighten himself into the sickness; yet I suppressed a good deal, and never told them
of the last will and testament in which he distributed his possessions amongst us.  Griff said
he had a great mind to go and shake old Bill up and row him well, but he never did.

More than a week passed by, two of Clarence's regular days for writing, but no letter came.
My mother grew uneasy, and talked of writing to Mrs. Robson, or, as we still called her, Gooch;
but it was doubtful whether the answer would contain much information, and it was quite certain
that any ill tidings would be sent to us.

At last we did hear, and found, as we had foreboded, that the letter had not been written for
fear of alarming us, or carrying infection, though Clarence underlined the words 'I am perfectly
well.'

Having to take a message into the senior partner's room, Clarence had found the old man crouched
over the table, writhing in the unmistakable grip of the deadly enemy.  No one else was available;
Clarence had to collect himself, send for the doctor, and manage the conveyance of the patient
to his rooms, which fortunately adjoined the office; for, through all his influx of wealth,
Mr. Frith had retained the habits and expenditure of his early struggling days. His old housekeeper
and her drudge showed themselves terrified out of their senses, and as incapable as unwilling.
Naval experience, and waiting on me, had taught Clarence helpfulness and handiness; and though
this was the very thing that had appalled his imagination, he seemed, as he said afterwards,
'to have got beyond his fright' to the use of his commonsense.  And when at last the doctor
came, and talked of finding a nurse, if possible, for they were scarce articles, the sufferer
only entreated between his paroxysms, 'Stay, Winslow!  Is Winslow there?  Don't go!  Don't
leave me!'

No nurse was to be found, but to Clarence's amazement Gooch arrived. He had sent by the office
boy to explain his absence; and before night the faithful woman descended on him, intending,
as in her old days of authority, simply to put Master Clarry out of harm's way, and take the
charge upon herself.  Then, as he proved unmanageable and would not leave his patient, neither
would she leave him, and through the frightful night that ensued, there was quite employment
enough for them both.  Gooch fully thought the end would come before morning, and was murmuring
something about a clergyman, but was cut short by a sharp prohibition.  However, detecting
Clarence's lips moving, the old man said, 'Eh! speak it out!'  'And with difficulty, feeling
as if I were somebody else,' said Clarence, 'I did get out some short words of prayer.  It
seemed so awful for him to die without any.'

When the doctor came in early morning, the watchers were astonished to hear that their charge
had taken a turn for the better, and might recover if their admirable care were continued.
The doctor had brought a nurse; but Mr. Frith would not let her come into the room, and there
was plenty of need for her elsewhere.

Several days of unremitting care followed, during which Clarence durst not write to us, so
little were the laws of infection understood.  Good Mrs. Robson stayed all the time, and probably
saved Clarence from falling a victim to his zeal, for she looked after him as anxiously as
after the sick man; and with a wondering and thankful heart, he found himself in full health,
when both were set free to return home.  Clarence had written at the beginning of the illness
to the only relations of whose existence or address he was aware, an old sister, Mrs. Stevens,
and a young great-nephew in the office at Liverpool; and the consequence was the arrival of
a sour-looking, old widow sister, who came to take charge of the convalescence, and, as the
indignant Gooch overheard her say, 'to prevent that young Winslow from getting round him.'

There were no signs of such a feat having been performed, when, the panic being past, my father
went up to London with Griffith, who was to begin eating his terms at the Temple.  He was to
share Clarence's lodgings, for the Robsons had plenty of room, and Gooch was delighted to extend
her cares to her special favourite, as she already reigned over Clarence's wardrobe and table
as entirely as in nursery days; and, to my great exultation, my father said it would be good
for Griffith to be with his brother; and, moreover, we should hear of the latter.  Nothing
could be a greater contrast than his rare notifications or requests, scrawled on a single side
of the quarto sheet, with Clarence's regular weekly lines of clerkly manuscript, telling all
that could interest any of us, and covering every available flap up to the blank circle left
for the trim red seal.

Promotion had come to Clarence in the natural course of seniority, and a small sum, due to
him on his coming of age, was invested in the house of business, so that the two brothers could
take between them all the Robsons' available rooms.  Clarence's post was one of considerable
trust; but there were no tokens of special favour, except that Mr. Frith was more civil to
my father than usual, and when he heard of the arrangement about the lodgings, he snarled out,
'Hm!  Law student indeed!  Don't let him spoil his brother!'

Which was so far an expression of gratitude that it showed that he considered that there was
something to be spoilt.  Mr. Castleford, however, showed real satisfaction in the purchase
of a share in the concern for Clarence.  His own eldest son inherited a good deal of his mother's
Irish nature, and was evidently unfit to be anything but a soldier, and the next was so young
that he was glad to have a promising and trustworthy young man, from whom a possible joint
head of the firm might be manufactured.

CHAPTER XXVII--PETER'S THUNDERBOLT

If you can separate yourself and your misdemeanours you are welcome to the house; if not, an
it would please you to take leave of her, she is very willing to bid you farewell.'

Twelfth Night.

In the early summer of 1833, we had the opportunity of borrowing a friend's house in Portman
Square for six weeks, and we were allowed to take Ellen with us for introduction to the Admiral
and other old friends, while we were to make acquaintance with her connections-- the family
of Sir Horace Lester, M.P.

We were very civil; but there were a good many polite struggles for the exclusive possession
of Ellen, whom both parties viewed as their individual right; and her unselfish good-humour
and brightness must have carried her over more worries than we guessed at the time.

She had stayed with the Lesters before, but in schoolroom days. They were indolent and uninterested,
and had never shown her any of the permanent wonders of London, despising these as only fit
for country cousins, whereas we had grown up to think of them with intelligent affection. 
To me, however, much was as new as to Ellen. Country life had done so much for me that I could
venture on what I had never attempted before.  The Admiral said it was getting away from doctors
and their experiments, but I had also done with the afflictions of attempts at growth in wrong
directions.  Old friends did not know me, and more than once, as I sat in the carriage, addressed
me for one of my brothers--a compliment which, Griff said, turned my head.  Happily I was too
much accustomed to my own appearance, and people were too kind, for me to have much shyness
on that score.  Our small dinner parties were great enjoyment to me, and the two girls were
very happy in their little gaieties.

Braham and Catalani, Fanny Kemble, and Turner's landscapes at his best, rise in my memory as
supreme delights and revelations in their different lines, and awakening trains of thought;
and then there was that entertainment which Griffith and Clarence gave us in their rooms, when
they regaled us with all the delicacies of the season, and Peter and Gooch looked all pride
and hospitality!  The dining- parlour, or what served as such, was Griff's property, as any
one could see by the pictures of horses, dogs, and ladies, the cups, whips, and boxing-gloves
that adorned it; the sitting-room had tokens of other occupation, in Clarence's piano, window-box
of flowers, and his one extravagance in engravings from Raffaelle, and a marine water-colour
or two, besides all my own attempts at family portraits, with a case of well-bound books. 
Those two rooms were perfectly redolent of their masters--I say it literally--for the scent
of flowers was in Clarence's room, and in Griff's, the odour of cigars had not wholly been
destroyed even by much airing.  For in those days it was regarded by parents and guardians
as an objectionable thing.

Peter was radiant on that occasion; but a few evenings later, when all were gone to an evening
party except my father and myself, Mr. Robson was announced as wishing to speak to Mr. Winslow.
After the civilities proper to the visit of an old servant had passed, he entered with obvious
reluctance on the purpose of his visit, namely, his dissatisfaction with Griff as a lodger.
His wife, he said, would not have had him speak, she was THAT attached to Mr. Griffith, it
couldn't be more if he was her own son; nor was it for want of liking for the young gentleman
on his part, as had known him from a boy, 'but the wife of one's bosom must come first, sir,
as stands to reason, and it's for the good of the young gentleman himself, and his family,
as some one should speak.  I never said one word against it when she would not be satisfied
without running the risk of her life after Mr. Clarence; hattending of Mr. Frith in the cholery.
That was only her dooty, sir, and I have never a word to say against dooty:  but I cannot see
her nearly wore out, and for no good to nobody.'

It appeared that Mrs. Robson was 'pretty nigh wore out, a setting up for Mr. Griffith's untimely
hours.'  'He laughed and coaxed--what I calls cajoling--did Mr. Griff, to get a latch-key;
but we knows our dooty too well for that, and Mrs. Winslow had made us faithfully promise,
when Master Clarence first came to us, that he should never have a latch-key,--Mr. Clarence,
as had only been five times later than eleven o'clock, and then he was going to dine with Mr.
Castleford, or to the theayter, and spoke about it beforehand.  If he was not reading to poor
Miss Newton, as was gone, or with some of his language-masters, he was setting at home with
his books and papers, not giving no trouble to nobody, after he had had his bit of bread and
cheese and glass of beer to his supper.'

Ay, Peter knew what young gentlemen was.  He did not expect to see them all like poor Master
Clarence, as had had his troubles; the very life knocked out of him in his youth, as one might
say.  Indeed Peter would be pleased to see him a bit more sprightly, and taking more to society
and hamusements of his hage.  Nor would there be any objection if the late 'ours was only once
a week or so, and things was done in a style fitting the family; but when it came to mostly
every night, often to two or three o'clock, it was too much for Mrs. Robson, for she would
never go to bed, being mortal afraid of fire, and not always certain that Mr. Griffith was--to
say--fit to put out his candle.  'What do you mean, Peter?' thundered my father, whose brow
had been getting more and more furrowed every moment.  'Say it out!--Drunk?'

'Well sir, no, no, not to say that exactly, but a little excited, sir, and women is timid.
No sir, not to call intoxicated.'

'No, that's to come,' muttered my father.  'Has this often happened?'

Peter did not think that it had been noticed more than three times at the most; but he went
on to offer his candid and sensible advice that Mr. Griffith should be placed in a family where
there was a gentleman or lady who would have some hauthority, and could not be put aside with
his good-'umoured haffability--'You're an old fogy, Peter.'  'Never mind, Nursey, I'll be a
good boy next time,' and the like.  'It is a disadvantage you see, sir, to have been in his
service, and 'tis for the young gentleman's own good as I speaks; but it would be better if
he were somewheres else--unless you would speak to him, sir.'

To the almost needless question whether Clarence had been with his brother on these occasions,
there was a most decided negative.  He had never gone out with Griffith except once to the
theatre, and to dine at the Castlefords, and at first he had sat up for his return, 'but it
led to words between the young gentlemen,' said Peter, whose confidences were becoming reckless;
and it appeared that when Clarence had found that Gooch would not let him spare her vigil,
he had obeyed her orders and ceased to share it.

Peter was thanked for the revelations, which had been a grievous effort to him, and dismissed.
My father sat still in great distress and perplexity, asking me whether Clarence had ever told
me anything of this, and I had barely time to answer 'No' before Clarence himself came in,
from what Peter called his language-master.  He was taking lessons in French and Spanish, finding
a knowledge of these useful in business.  To his extreme distress, my father fell on him at
once, demanding what he knew of the way Griffith was spending his time, 'coming home at all
sorts of hours in a disreputable condition.  No prevarication, sir,' he added, as the only
too familiar look of consternation and bewilderment came over Clarence's face.  'You are doing
your brother no good by conniving at his conduct.  Speak truth, if you can,' he added, with
more cruelty than he knew, in his own suffering.

'Sir,' gasped Clarence, 'I know Griff often comes home after I am in bed, but I do not know
the exact time, nor anything more.'

'Is this all you can tell me?  Really all?'

'All I know--that is--of my own knowledge,' said Clarence, recovering a little, but still unable
to answer without hesitation, which vexed my father.

'What do you mean by that?  Do you hear nothing?'

'I am afraid,' said Clarence, 'that I do not see as much of him as I had hoped.  He is not
up till after I have to be at our place, and he does not often spend an evening at home.  He
is such a popular fellow, and has so many friends and engagements.'

'Ay, and of what sort?  Can't you tell? or will you not?  I sent him up to you, thinking you
a steady fellow who might influence him for good.'

The colour rushed into Clarence's face, as he answered, looking up and speaking low, 'Have
I not forfeited all such hopes?'

'Nonsense!  You've lived down that old story long ago.  You would make your mark, if you only
showed a little manliness and force of character.  Griffith was always fond of you.  Can't
you do anything to hinder him from ruining his own life and that sweet girl's happiness?'

'I would--I would give my life to do so!' exclaimed Clarence, in warm, eager tones.  'I have
tried, but he says I know nothing about it, and it is very dull at our rooms for him.  I have
got used to it, but you can't expect a fellow like Griff to stay at home, with no better company
than me, and do nothing but read law.'

'Then you DO know,' began my father; but Clarence, with full self- possession, said, 'I think
you had better ask me no more questions, papa.  I really know nothing, or hardly anything,
personally of his proceedings.  I went to one supper with him, after going to the play, and
did not fancy it; besides, it almost unfitted me for my morning's work; nor does it answer
for me to sit up for him--it only vexes him, as if I were watching him.'

'Did you ever see him come home showing traces of excess?'

'No!' said Clarence, 'I never saw!' and, under a stern, distressed look, 'Once I heard tones
that--that startled me, and Mrs. Robson has grumbled a good deal--but I think Peter takes it
for more than it is worth.'

'I see,' said my father more gently; 'I will not press you farther. I believe I ought to be
glad that these habits are only hearsay to you.'

'As far as I can see,' said Clarence diffidently, but quite restored to himself, 'Griff is
only like most of his set, young men who go into society.'

'Oh!' said my father, in a 'that's your opinion' kind of tone; and as at that moment the yell
of a newsboy was heard in the street, he exclaimed that he must go and get an evening paper.
Clarence made a step to go instead, but was thrust back, as apparently my father merely wanted
an excuse for rushing into the open air to recover the shock or to think it over.

Clarence gave a kind of groan, and presently exclaimed, 'If only untruth were not such a sin!'
and, on my exclamation of dismay, he added, 'I don't think a blowing up ever does good!'

'But this state of things should not last.'

'It will not.  It would have come to an end without Peter's springing this mine.  Griff says
he can't stand Gooch any longer! And really she does worry him intolerably.'

'Peter professed to come without her knowledge or consent.'

'Exactly so.  It will almost break the good old soul's heart for Griff to leave her; but she
expects to have him in hand as if he was in the nursery.  She is ever so much worse than she
was with me, and he is really good-nature itself to laugh off her nagging as he does- -about
what he chooses to put on, or eating, or smoking, or leaving his room untidy, as well as other
things.'

'And those other things?  Do you suspect more than you told papa?'

'It amounts to no more.  Griff likes amusement, and everybody likes him--that's all.  Yes,
I know my father read law ten hours a day, but his whole nature and circumstances were different.
I don't believe Griff could go on in that way.'

'Not with such a hope before him?  You would, Clarence.'

His face and not his tongue answered me, but he added, 'Griff is sure of THAT without so much
labour and trouble.'

'And do you see so little of him?'

'I can't help it.  I can't keep his hours and do my work.  Yes, I know we are drifting apart;
I wish I could help it, but being coupled up together makes it rather worse than better.  It
aggravates him, and he will really get on better without Gooch to worry him, and thrust my
droning old ways down his throat,--as if Prince Hal could bear to be twitted with "that sober
boy, Lord John of Lancaster."  Not,' he added, catching himself up, 'that I meant to compare
him to the madcap Prince.  He is the finest of fellows, if they only would let him alone.'

And that was all I could get from Clarence.

CHAPTER XXVIII--A SQUIRE OF DAMES

   'Spited with a fool -
Spited and angered both.'

Cymbeline.

This long stay of Ellen's in our family had made our fraternal relations with her nearer and
closer.  Familiarity had been far from lessening our strong feeling for her goodness and sweetness.
Emily, who knew her best, used to confide to me little instances of the spirit of devotion
and self-discipline that underlay all her sunny gaiety--how she never failed in her morning's
devout readings; how she learnt a verse or two of Scripture every day, and persuaded Emily
to join with her in repeating it ere they went downstairs for their evening's pleasure; how
she had set herself a little task of plain work for the poor, which she did every day in her
own room; and the like dutiful habits, which seemed, as it were, to help her to keep herself
in hand, and not be carried away by what was a whirl of pleasure to her, though a fashionable
young lady would have despised its mildness.

Indeed Lady Peacock, with whom we exchanged calls, made no secret of her compassion when she
found how many parties the ladies were NOT going to; and Ellen's own relations, the Lesters,
would have taken her out almost every night if she had not staunchly held to her promise to
her mother not to go out more than three evenings in the week, for Mrs. Fordyce knew her to
be delicate, and feared late hours for her.  The vexation her cousins manifested made her feel
the more bound to give them what time she could, at hours when Griffith was not at liberty.
She did not like them to be hurt, and jealous of us, or to feel forsaken, and she tried to
put her affection for us on a different footing by averring that 'it was not the same kind
of thing--Emily was her sister.'

One day she had gone to luncheon with the Lesters in Cavendish Square, and was to be called
for in the carriage by me, on the way to take up the other two ladies, who were shopping in
Regent Street.

Ellen came running downstairs, with her cheeks in a glow under the pink satin lining of her
pretty bonnet, and her eyes sparkling with indignation, which could not but break forth.

'I don't know how I shall ever go there again!' she exclaimed; 'they have no right to say such
things!'  Then she explained.  Mary and Louisa had been saying horrid things about Griffith--her
Griff!  It was always their way.  Think how Horace had made her treat Clarence! It was their
way and habit to tease, and call it fun, and she had never minded it before; but this was too
bad.  Would not I put it in her power to give a flat contradiction, such as would make them
ashamed of themselves?

Contradict what?

Then it appeared that the Misses Lester had laughed at her, who was so very particular and
scrupulous, for having taken up with a regular young man about town.  Oh no, THEY did not think
much of it- -no doubt he was only just like other people; only the funny thing was that it
should be Ellen, for whom it was always supposed that no saint in the calendar, no knight in
all the Waverley novels, would be good enough!  And then, on her hot desire to know what they
meant, they quoted John, the brother in the Guards, as having been so droll about poor Ellen's
perfect hero, and especially at his straight-laced Aunt Fordyce having been taken in,--but
of course it was the convenience of joining the estates, and it was agreeable to see that your
very good folk could wink at things like other people in such a case.  Then, when Ellen fairly
drove her inquiries home, in her absolute trust of confuting all slanders, she was told that
Griffith did, what she called 'all sorts of things--billiards and all that.'  And even that
he was always running after a horrid Lady Peacock, a gay widow.

'They went on in fun,' said Ellen, 'and laughed the more when--yes, I am afraid I did--I lost
my temper.  No, don't say I well might, I know I ought not; but I told them I knew all about
Lady Peacock, and that you were all old friends, even before he rescued her from the Bristol
riots and brought her home to Chantry House; and that only made Mary merrier than ever, and
say, "What, another distressed damsel?  Take care, Ellen; I would not trust such a squire of
dames."  And then Louisa chimed in, "Oh no, you see this Peacock dame was only conducted, like
Princess Micomicona and all the rest of them, to the feet of his peerless Dulcinea!"  And then
I heard the knock, and I was never so glad in my life!'

'Well!' I could not help remarking, 'I have heard of women's spitefulness, but I never believed
it till now.'

'I really don't think it was altogether what you call malice, so much as the Lester idea of
fun,' said Ellen, recovering herself after her outpouring.  'A very odd notion I always thought
it was; and Mary and Louisa are not really ill-natured, and cannot wish to do the harm they
might have done, if I did not know Griff too well.'

Then, after considering a little, she said, blushing, 'I believe I have told you more than
I ought, Edward--I couldn't help having it out; but please don't tell any one, especially that
shocking way of speaking of mamma, which they could not really mean.'

'No one could who knew her.'

'Of course not.  I'll tell you what I mean to do.  I will write to Mary when we go in, and
tell her that I know she really cares for me enough to be glad that her nonsense has done no
mischief, and, though I was so foolish and wrong as to fly into a passion, of course I know
it is only her way, and I do not believe one word of it.'

Somehow, as she looked with those radiant eyes full of perfect trust, I could not help longing
not to have heard Peter Robson's last night's complaint; but family feeling towards outsiders
overcomes many a misgiving, and my wrath against the malignity of the Lesters was quite as
strong as if I had been devoid of all doubts whether Griff wore to all other eyes the same
halo of pure glory with which Ellen invested him.

Such doubts were very transient.  Dear old Griff was too delightful, too bright and too brave,
too ardent and too affectionate, not to dispel all clouds by the sunshine he carried about
with him.  If rest and reliance came with Clarence, zest and animation came with Griffith.
He managed to take the initiative by declining to remain any longer with the Robsons, saying
they had been spoilt by such a model lodger as Clarence, who would let Gooch feed him on bread
and milk and boiled mutton, and put on his clean pinafore if she chose to insist; whereas her
indignation, when Griff found fault with the folding of his white ties, amounted to 'Et tu
Brute,' and he really feared she would have had a fit when he ordered devilled kidneys for
breakfast.  He was sure her determination to tuck him up every night and put out his candle
was shortening her life; and he had made arrangements to share the chambers of a friend who
had gone through school and college with him.  There was no objection to the friend, who had
stayed at Chantry House and was an agreeable, lively, young man, well reported of, satisfactorily
connected, fairly industrious, and in good society, so that Griff was likely to be much less
exposed to temptation of the lower kinds than when left to his own devices, or only with Clarence,
who had neither time nor disposition to share his amusements.

There was a scene with my father, but in private; and all that came to general knowledge was
that Griff felt himself injured by any implication that he was given to violent or excessive
dissipation, such as could wreck Ellen's happiness or his own character.

He declared with all his heart that immediate marriage would be the best thing for both, and
pleaded earnestly for it; but my father could not have arranged for it even if the Fordyces
would have consented, and there were matters of business, as well as other reasons, which made
it inexpedient for them to revoke their decision that the wedding should not take place before
Ellen was of age and Griffith called to the bar.

So we took our young ladies home, loaded with presents for their beloved school children, of
whom Emily said she dreamt, as the time for seeing them again drew near.  After all the London
enjoyment, it was pretty to see the girls' delight in the fresh country sights and sounds in
full summer glory, and how Ellen proved to have been hungering after all her dear ones at home.
When we left her at her own door, our last sight of her was in her father's arms, little Anne
clinging to her dress, mother and grandfather as close to her as could be--a perfect tableau
of a joyous welcome.

CHAPTER XXIX--LOVE AND OBEDIENCE

'Unless he give me all in change
   I forfeit all things by him;
The risk is terrible and strange.'

MRS. BROWNING.

You will be weary of my lengthiness; and perhaps I am lingering too long over the earlier portion
of my narrative.  Something is due to the disproportion assumed in our memories by the first
twenty years of existence--something, perhaps, to reluctance to passing from comparative sunshine
to shadow.  There was still a period of brightness, but it was so uneventful that I have no
excuse for dwelling on it further than to say that Henderson, our excellent curate, had already
made a great difference in the parish, and it was beginning to be looked on as almost equal
to Hillside.  The children were devoted to Emily, who was the source of all the amenities of
their poor little lives.  The needlework of the school was my mother's pride; and our church
and its services, though you would shudder at them now, were then thought presumptuously superior
'for a country parish.'  They were a real delight and blessing to us, as well as to many more
of the flock, who still, in their old age, remember and revere Parson Henderson as a sort of
apostle.

The dawning of the new Poor-Law led to investigations which revealed the true conditions of
the peasant's life--its destitution, recklessness, and dependence.  We tried to mend matters
by inducing families to emigrate, but this renewed the distrust which had at first beheld in
the schools an attempt to enslave the children. Even accounts, sent home by the exceptionally
enterprising who did go to Canada, were, we found, scarcely trusted.  Amos Bell, who would
have gone, if he had not been growing into my special personal attendant, was letter-writer
and reader to all his relations, and revealed to us that it had been agreed that no letter
should be considered as genuine unless it bore a certain private mark.  To be sure, the accounts
of prosperity might well sound fabulous to the toilers and moilers at home.  Harriet Martineau's
Hamlets, which we lent to many of our neighbours, is a fair picture of the state of things.
We much enjoyed those tales, and Emily says they were the only political economy she ever learnt.

The model arrangements of our vestries led to a summons to my father and the younger Mr. Fordyce
to London, to be examined on the condition of the pauper, and the working of the old Elizabethan
Poor-Law.

They were absent for about a fortnight of early spring, and Emily and I could not help observing
that our mother was unusually uncommunicative about my father's letters; and, moreover, there
was a tremendous revolution of the furniture, a far more ominous token in our household than
any comet.

The truth came on us when the two fathers returned.  Mine told me himself that Frank Fordyce
was so much displeased with Griffith's conduct that he had declared that the engagement could
not continue with his consent.

This from good-natured, tender-hearted Parson Frank!

I cried out hotly that 'those Lesters' had done this.  They had always been set against us,
and any one could talk over Mr. Frank. My father shook his head.  He said Frank Fordyce was
not weak, but all the stronger for his gentleness and charity; and, moreover, that he was quite
right--to our shame and grief be it spoken--quite right.

It was true that the first information had been given by Sir Horace Lester, Mrs. Fordyce's
brother, but it had not been lightly spoken like the daughter's chatter; and my father himself
had found it only too true, so that he could not conscientiously call Griffith worthy of such
a creature as Ellen Fordyce.

Poor Griff, he had been idle and impracticable over his legal studies, which no persuasion
would make him view as otherwise than a sort of nominal training for a country gentleman; nor
had he ever believed or acted upon the fact that the Earlscombe property was not an unlimited
fortune, such as would permit him to dispense with any profession, and spend time and money
like the youths with whom he associated.  Still, this might have been condoned as part of the
effervescence which had excited him ever since my father had succeeded to the estate, and patience
might still have waited for greater wisdom; but there had been graver complaints of irregularities,
which were forcing his friend to dissolve partnership with him.  There was evidence of gambling,
which he not only admitted, but defended; and, moreover, he was known at parties, at races,
and at the theatre, as one of the numerous satellites who revolved about that gay and conspicuous
young fashionable widow, Lady Peacock.

'Yes, Frank has every right to be angry,' said my father, pacing the room.  'I can't wonder
at him.  I should do the same; but it is destroying the best hope for my poor boy.'

Then he began to wish Clarence had more--he knew not what to call it--in him; something that
might keep his brother straight.  For, of course, he had talked to Clarence and discovered
how very little the brothers saw of one another.  Clarence had been to look for Griff in vain
more than once, and they had only really met at a Castleford dinner-party.  In fact, Clarence's
youthful spirits, and the tastes which would have made him companionable to Griff, had been
crushed out of him; and he was what more recent slang calls 'such a muff,' that he had perforce
drifted out of our elder brother's daily life, as much as if he had been a grave senior of
fifty.  It was, as he owned, a heavy penalty of his youthful fall that he could not help his
brother more effectually.

It appeared that Frank Fordyce, thoroughly roused, had had it out with Griffith, and had declared
that his consent was withdrawn and the engagement annulled.  Griff, astounded at the resolute
tone of one whom he considered as the most good-natured of men, had answered hotly and proudly
that he should accept no dismissal except from Ellen herself, and that he had done no more
than was expected of any young man of position and estate.  On the other indictment he scorned
any defence, and the two had parted in mutual indignation. He had, however, shown himself so
much distressed at the threat of being deprived of Ellen, that neither my father nor Clarence
had the least doubt of his genuine attachment to her, nor that his attentions to Lady Peacock
were more than the effect of old habit and love of amusement, and that they had been much exaggerated.
He scouted the bare idea of preferring her to Ellen; and, in his second interview with my father,
was ready to make any amount of promises of reformation, provided his engagement were continued.

This was on the last evening before leaving town, and he came to the coach-office looking so
pale, jaded, and unhappy that Parson Frank's kind heart was touched; and in answer to a muttered
'I've been ten thousand fools, sir, but if you will overlook it I will try to be worthy of
her,' he made some reply that could be construed into, 'If you keep to that, all may yet be
well.  I'll talk to her mother and grandfather.'

Perhaps this was cruel kindness, for, as we well knew, Mrs. Fordyce was far less likely to
be tolerant of a young man's failings than was her husband; and she was, besides, a Lester,
and might take the same view.

Abusing the Lesters was our great resource; for we did not believe either the sailor or the
guardsman to be immaculate, and we knew them to be jealous.  We had to remain in ignorance
of what we most wished to know, for Ellen was kept away from us, and my mother would not let
Emily go in search of her.  Only Anne, who was a high- spirited, independent little person,
made a sudden rush upon me as I sat in the garden.  She had no business to be so far from home
alone; but, said she, 'I don't care, it is all so horrid.  Please, Edward, is it true that
Griff has been so very wicked?  I heard the maids talking, and they said papa had found out
that he was a bad lot, and that he was not to marry Ellen; but she would stick to him through
thick and thin, like poor Kitty Brown who would marry the man that got transported for seven
years.'  'Will he be transported, Edward? and would Ellen go too, like the "nut-brown maid?"
Is that what she cries so about?  Not by day, but all night.  I know she does, for her handkerchief
is wet through, and there is a wet place on her pillow always in the morning; but she only
says, "Never mind," and nobody WILL tell me.  They only say little girls should not think about
such things.  And I am not so very little.  I am eight, and have read the Lay of the Last Minstrel
and I know all about people in love.  So you might tell me.'

I relieved Anne's mind as to the chances of transportation, and, after considering how many
confidences might be honourably exchanged with the child, I explained that her father thought
Griff had been idle and careless, and not fit as yet to be trusted with Ellen.

Her parish experience came into play.  'Does papa think he would be like Joe Sparks?  But then
gentlemen don't beat their wives, nor go to the public-house, nor let their children go about
in rags.'

I durst not inquire much, but I gathered that there was a heavy shadow over the house, and
that Ellen was striving to do as usual, but breaking down when alone.  Just then Parson Frank
appeared. Anne had run away from him while on a farming inspection, when the debate over the
turnips with the factotum had become wearisome.  He looked grave and sorrowful, quite unlike
his usual hearty self, and came to me, leaning over my chair, and saying, 'This is sad work,
Edward'; and, on an anxious venture of an inquiry for Ellen, 'Poor little maid, it is very
sore work with her.  She is a good child and obedient--wants to do her duty; but we should
never have let it go on so long.  We have only ourselves to thank--taking the family character,
you see'--and he made a kindly gesture towards me.  'Your father sees how it is, and won't
let it make a split between us.  I believe that not seeing as much of your sister as usual
is one of my poor lassie's troubles, but it may be best--it may be best.'

He lingered talking, unwilling to tear himself away, and ended by disclosing, almost at unawares,
that Ellen had held out for a long time, would not understand nor take in what she was told,
accepted nothing on Lester authority, declared she understood all about Lady Peacock, and showed
a strength of resistance and independence of view that had quite startled her parents, by proving
how far their darling had gone from them in heart.  But they still held her by the bonds of
obedience; and, by dealing with her conscience, her mother had obtained from her a piteous
little note -

'MY DEAR GRIFFITH--I am afraid it is true that you have not always seemed to be doing right,
and papa and mamma forbid our going on as we are.  You know I cannot be disobedient.  It would
not bring a blessing on you.  So I must break off, though--'

The 'though' could be read through an erasure, followed by the initials, E. M. F.--as if the
dismal conclusion had been felt to be only too true--and there followed the postscript, 'Forgive
me, and, if we are patient, it may come right.'

This letter was displayed, when, on the ensuing evening, it brought Griff down in towering
indignation, and trying to prove the coercion that must have been exercised to extract even
thus much from his darling.  Over he went headlong to Hillside to insist on seeing her, but
to encounter a succession of stormy scenes.  Mrs. Fordyce was the most resolute, but was ill
for a week after.  The old Rector was gentle, and somewhat overawed Griff by his compassion,
and by representations that were only too true; and Parson Frank, with his tender heart torn
to pieces, showed symptoms of yielding another probation.

The interview with Ellen was granted.  She, however, was intrenched in obedience.  She had
promised submission to the rupture of her engagement, and she kept her word,--though she declared
that nothing could hinder her love, and that she would wait patiently till her lover had proved
himself, to everybody's satisfaction, as good and noble as she knew him to be.  When he told
her she did not love him she smiled.  She was sure that whatever mistakes there might have
been, he would give no further occasion against himself, and then every one would see that
all had been mere misunderstanding, and they should be happy again.

Such trust humbled him, and he was ready to make all promises and resolutions; but he could
not obtain the renewal of the engagement, nor permission to correspond.  Only there was wrung
out of Parson Frank a promise that if he could come in two years with a perfectly unstained,
unblotted character, the betrothal might be renewed.

We were very thankful for the hope and motive, and Griff had no doubts of himself.

'One can't look at the pretty creature and think of disappointing her,' he said.  'She is altered,
you know, Ted; they've bullied her till she is more ethereal than ever, but it only makes her
lovelier. I believe if she saw me kill some one on the spot she would think it all my generosity;
or, if she could not, she would take and die.  Oh no!  I'll not fail her.  No, I won't; not
if I have to spend seven years after the model of old Bill, whose liveliest pastime is a good
long sermon, when it is not a ghost.'

CHAPTER XXX--UNA OR DUESSA

'Soone as the Elfin knight in presence came And false Duessa, seeming ladye fayre, A gentle
husher, Vanitie by name, Made roome, and passage did for them prepare.'

SPENSER.

The two families were supposed to continue on unbroken terms of friendship, and we men did
so; but Mrs. Fordyce told my mother that she had disapproved of the probation, and Mrs. Winslow
was hurt. Though the two girls were allowed to be together as usual, it was on condition of
silence about Griff; and though, as Emily said, they really had not been always talking about
him in former times, the prohibition seemed to weigh upon all they said.

Old Mr. Fordyce had long been talking of a round of visits among relations whom he had not
seen for many years; and it was decided to send Ellen with him, chiefly, no doubt, to prevent
difficulties about Griffith in the long vacation.

There was no embargo on the correspondence with my sister, and letters full of description
came regularly, but how unlike they were to our journal.  They were clear, intelligent, with
a certain liveliness, but no ring of youthful joy, no echo of the heart, always as if under
restraint.  Griff was much disappointed.  He had been on his good behaviour for two months,
and expected his reward, and I could not here repeat all that he said about her parents when
he found she was absent.  Yet, after all, he got more pity and sympathy from Parson Frank than
from any one else.  That good man actually sent a message for him, when Emily was on honour
to do no such thing.  Poor Emily suffered much in consequence, when she would neither afford
Griff a blank corner of her paper, nor write even a veiled message; while as to the letters
she received and gave to him, 'what was the use,' he said, 'of giving him what might have been
read aloud by the town-crier?'

'You don't understand, Griff; it is all dear Ellen's conscientiousness--'

'Oh, deliver me from such con-sci-en-tious-ness,' he answered, in a tone of bitter mimicry,
and flung out of the room leaving Emily in tears.

He could not appreciate the nobleness of Ellen's self-command and the obedience which was the
security of future happiness, but was hurt at what he thought weak alienation.  One note of
sympathy would have done much for Griff just then.  I have often thought it over since, and
come to the conclusion that Mrs. Fordyce was justified in the entire separation she brought
about.  No one can judge of the strength with which 'true love' has mastered any individual,
nor how far change may be possible; and, on the other hand, unless there were full appreciation
of Ellen's character, she might only have been looked on as -

'Puppet to a father's threat, Servile to a shrewish tongue.'

Yet, after all, Frank Fordyce was very kind to Griff, making himself as much of a medium of
communication as he could consistently with his conscience, but of course not satisfying one
who believed that the strength of love was to be proved not by obedience but disobedience.

Ellen's letters showed increasing anxiety about her grandfather, who was not favourably affected
by the change of habits, consequent on a long journey, and staying in different houses.  His
return was fixed two or three times, and then delayed by slight attacks of illness, till at
last he became anxious to get home, and set off about the end of September; but after sleeping
a night at an inn at Warwick, he was too ill to proceed any farther.  His old man-servant was
with him; but poor Ellen went through a great deal of suspense and responsibility before her
parents reached her.  The attack was paralysis, and he never recovered the full powers of mind
or body, though they managed to bring him back to Hillside--as indeed his restlessness longed
for his native home.  When once there he became calmer, but did not rally; and a second stroke
proved fatal just before Easter.  He was mourned alike by rich and poor, 'He WAS a gentleman,'
said even Chapman, 'always the same to rich or poor, though he was one of they Fordys.'

My father wrote to summon both his elder sons to the funeral at Hillside, and in due time Clarence
appeared by the coach, but alone. He had gone to Griffith's chambers to arrange about coming
down together, but found my father's letter lying unopened on the table, and learnt that his
brother was supposed to be staying at a villa in Surrey, where there were to be private theatricals.
He had forwarded the letter thither, and it would still be possible to arrive in time by the
night mail.

So entirely was Griff expected that the gig was sent to meet him at seven o'clock the next
morning, but there was no sign of him.  My father and Clarence went without him to the gathering,
which showed how deeply the good old man was respected and loved.

It was the only funeral Clarence had attended except Miss Newton's hurried one, and his sensitive
spirit was greatly affected.  He had learnt reserve when amongst others, but I found that he
had a strong foreboding of evil; he tossed and muttered in his sleep, and confessed to having
had a wretched night of dreams, though he would not describe them otherwise than that he had
seen the lady whose face he always looked on as a presage of evil.

Two days later the Morning Post gave a full account of the amateur theatricals at Bella Vista,
the seat of Benjamin Bullock, Esquire, and the Lady Louisa Bullock; and in the list of dramatis
personae, there figured Griffith Winslow, Esquire, as Captain Absolute, and the fair and accomplished
Lady Peacock as Lydia Languish.

Amateur theatricals were much less common in those days than at present, and were held as the
ne plus ultra of gaiety.  Moreover, the Lady Louisa Bullock was noted for fashionable extravagance
of the semi-reputable style; and there would have been vexation enough at Griffith's being
her guest, even had not the performance taken place on the very day of the funeral of Ellen's
grandfather, so as to be an outrage on decorum.

At the same time, there came a packet franked by a not very satisfactory peer, brother to Lady
Louisa.  My father threw a note over to Clarence, and proceeded to read a very properly expressed
letter full of apologies and condolences for the Fordyces.

'He could not have got the letter in time' was my father's comment. 'When did you forward the
letter?  How was it addressed?  Clarence, I say, didn't you hear?'

Clarence lifted up his face from his letter, so much flushed that my mother broke in--'What's
the matter?  A mistake in the post-town would account for the delay.  Has he had the letter?'

'Oh yes.'

'Not in time--eh?'

'I'm afraid,' and he faltered, 'he did.'

'Did he or did he not?' demanded my mother.

'What does he say?' exclaimed my father.

'Sir' (always an unpropitious beginning for poor Clarence), 'I should prefer not showing you.'

'Nonsense!' exclaimed my mother:  'you do no good by concealing it!'

'Let me see his letter,' said my father, in the voice there was no gainsaying, and absolutely
taking it from Clarence.  None of us will ever forget the tone in which he read it aloud at
the breakfast- table.

'DEAR BILL--What possessed you to send a death's-head to the feast? The letter would have bitten
no one in my chambers.  A nice scrape I shall be in if you let out that your officious precision
forwarded it.  Of course at the last moment I could not upset the whole affair and leave Lydia
to languish in vain.  The whole thing went off magnificently.  Keep counsel and no harm is
done.  You owe me that for sending on the letter.--Yours,

'J. G. W.'

Clarence had not read to the end when the letter was taken from him. Indeed to inclose such
a note in a dispatch sure to be opened en famille was one of Griffith's haphazard proceedings,
which arose from the present being always much more to him than the absent. Clarence was much
shocked at hearing these last sentences, and exclaimed, 'He meant it in confidence, papa; I
implore you to treat it as unread!'

My father was always scrupulous about private letters, and said, 'I beg your pardon, Clarence;
I should not have forced it from you.  I wish I had not seen it.'

My mother gave something between a snort and a sigh.  'It is right for us to know the truth,'
she said, 'but that is enough.  There is no need that they should know at Hillside what was
Griffith's alternative.'

'I would not add a pang to that dear girl's grief,' said my father; 'but I see the Fordyces
were right.  I shall never do anything to bring these two together again.'

My mother chimed in with something about preferring Lady Peacock and the Bella Vista crew to
Ellen and Hillside, which made us rush into the breach with incoherent defence.

'I know how it was,' said Clarence.  'His acting is capital, and of course these people could
not spare him, nor understand how much it signified that he should be here.  They make so much
of him.'

'Who do?' asked my mother.  'Lady Peacock?  How do you know?  Have you been with them?'

'I have dined at Mr. Clarkson's,' Clarence avowed; and, on further pressure, it was extracted
that Griffith--handsome, and with talents such as tell in society--was a general favourite,
and much engrossed by people who found him an enlivenment and ornament to their parties.  There
had been little or nothing of late of the former noisy, boyish dissipation; but that the more
fashionable varieties were getting a hold on him became evident under the cross- questioning
to which Clarence had to submit.

My father said he felt like a party to a falsehood when he sent Griff's letter up to Hillside,
and he indemnified himself by writing a letter more indignant--not than was just, but than
was prudent, especially in the case of one little accustomed to strong censure. Indeed Clarence
could not restrain a slight groan when he perceived that our mother was shut up in the study
to assist in the composition.  Her denunciations always outran my father's, and her pain showed
itself in bitterness.  'I ought to have had the presence of mind to refuse to show the letter,'
he said; 'Griff will hardly forgive me.'

Ellen looked very thin, and with a transparent delicacy of complexion.  She had greatly grieved
over her grandfather's illness and the first change in her happy home; and she must have been
much disappointed at Griffith's absence.  Emily dreaded her mention of the subject when they
first met.

'But,' said my sister, 'she said no word of him.  All she cared to tell me was of the talks
she had with her grandfather, when he made her read his favourite chapters in the Bible; and
though he had no memory for outside things, his thoughts were as beautiful as ever. Sometimes
his face grew so full of glad contemplation that she felt quite awestruck, as if it were becoming
like the face of an angel. It made her realise, she said, "how little the ups and downs of
this life matter, if there can be such peace at the last."  And, after all, I could not help
thinking that it was better perhaps that Griff did not come.  Any other sort of talk would
have jarred on her just now, and you know he would never stand much of that.'

Much as we loved our Griff, we had come to the perception that Ellen was a treasure he could
not esteem properly.

The Lester cousins, never remarkable for good taste, forced on her the knowledge of his employment.
Her father could not refrain from telling us that her exclamation had been, 'Poor Griff, how
shocked he must be!  He was so fond of dear grandpapa.  Pray, papa, get Mr. Winslow to let
him know that I am not hurt, for I know he could not help it.  Or may I ask Emily to tell him so?'

I wish Mrs. Fordyce would have absolved her from the promise not to mention Griff to us.  That
innocent reliance might have touched him, as Emily would have narrated it; but it only rendered
my father more indignant, and more resolved to reserve the message till a repentant apology
should come.  And, alas! none ever came.  Just wrath on a voiceless paper has little effect.
There is reason to believe that Griff did not like the air of my father's letter, and never
even read it.  He diligently avoided Clarence, and the pain and shame his warm heart must have
felt only made him keep out of reach.

CHAPTER XXXI--FACILIS DESCENSUS

'The slippery verge her feet beguiled;
   She tumbled headlong in.'

GRAY.

One of Griffith's briefest notes in his largest hand announced that he had accepted various
invitations to country houses, for cricket matches, archery meetings, and the like; nor did
he even make it clear where his address would be, except that he would be with a friend in
Scotland when grouse-shooting began.

Clarence, however, came home for a brief holiday.  He was startled at the first sight of Ellen.
He said she was indeed lovelier than ever, with an added sweetness in her clear eyes and the
wild rose flush in her delicate cheek; but that she looked as if she was being refined away
to nothing, and was more than ever like the vision with the lamp.

Of course the Fordyces had not been going into society, though Ellen and Emily were as much
together as before, helping one another in practising their school children in singing, and
sharing in one another's studies and pursuits.  There had been in the spring a change at Wattlesea;
the old incumbent died, and the new one was well reported of as a very earnest hardworking
man.  He seemed to be provided with a large family, and there was no driving into Wattlesea
without seeing members of it scattered about the place.

The Fordyces being anxious to show them attention without a regular dinner-party, decided on
inviting all the family to keep Anne's ninth birthday, and Emily and Martyn were of course
to come and assist at the entertainment.

It was on the morning of the day fixed that a letter came to me whose contents seemed to burn
themselves into my brain.  Martyn called across the breakfast-table, 'Look at Edward!  Has
any one sent you a young basilisk?'

'I wish it was,' I gasped out.

'Don't look so,' entreated Emily.  'Tell us!  Is it Griff?'

'Not ill-hurt?' cried my mother.  'Oh no, no.  Worse!' and then somehow I articulated that
he was married; and Clarence exclaimed, 'Not the Peacock!' and at my gesture my father broke
out.  'He has done for himself, the unhappy boy.  A disgraceful Scotch marriage. Eh?'

'It was his sense of honour,' I managed to utter.

'Sense of fiddlestick!' said my poor father.  'Don't stop to excuse him.  We've had enough
of that!  Let us hear.'

I cannot give a copy of the letter.  It was so painful that it was destroyed; for there was
a tone of bravado betraying his uneasiness, but altogether unbecoming.  All that it disclosed
was, that some one staying in the same house had paid insulting attentions to Lady Peacock;
she had thrown herself on our brother's protection, and after interfering on her behalf, he
had found that there was no means of sheltering her but by making her his wife.  This had been
effected by the assistance of the lady of the house where they had been staying; and Griffith
had written to me two days later from Edinburgh, declaring that Selina had only to be known
to be loved, and to overcome all prejudices.

'Prejudices,' said my father bitterly.  'Prejudices in favour of truth and honour.'

And my mother uttered the worst reproach of all, when in my agitation, I slipped and almost
fell in rising--'Oh, my poor Edward! that I should have lived to think yours the least misfortune
that has befallen my sons!'

'Nay, mother,' said Clarence, putting Martyn toward her, 'here is one to make up for us all.'

'Clarence,' said my father, 'your mother did not mean anything but that you and Edward are
the comfort of our lives.  I wish there were a chance of Griffith redeeming the past as you
have done; but I see no hope of that.  A man is never ruined till he is married.'

At that moment there was a step in the hall, a knock at the door, and there stood Mr. Frank
Fordyce.  He looked at us and said, 'It is true then.'

'To our shame and sorrow it is,' said my father.  'Fordyce, how can we look you in the face?'

'As my dear good friend, and my father's,' said the kind man, shaking him by the hand heartily.
'Do you think we could blame you for this youth's conduct?  Stay'--for we young ones were about
to leave the room.  'My poor girl knows nothing yet.  Her mother luckily got the letter in
her bedroom.  We can't put off the Reynoldses, you know, so I came to ask the young people
to come up as if nothing had happened, and then Ellen need know nothing till the day is over.'

'If I can,' said Emily.

'You can be capable of self-command, I hope,' said my mother severely, 'or you do not deserve
to be called a friend.'

Such speeches might not be pleasant, but they were bracing, and we all withdrew to leave the
elders to talk it over together, when, as I believe, kind Parson Frank was chiefly concerned
to argue my parents out of their shame and humiliation.

Clarence told us what he knew or guessed; and we afterwards understood the matter to have come
about chiefly through poor Griff's weakness of character, and love of amusement and flattery.
The boyish flirtation with Selina Clarkson had never entirely died away, though it had been
nothing more than the elder woman's bantering patronage and easy acceptance of the youth's
equally gay, jesting admiration.  It had, however, involved some raillery on his attachment
to the little Methodistical country girl, and this gradually grew into jealousy of her--especially
as Griff became more of a man, and a brilliant member of society.  The detention from the funeral
had been a real victory on the widow's part, and the few times when Clarence had seen them
together he had been dismayed at the cavaliere serviente terms on which Griff seemed to stand;
but his words of warning were laughed down.  The rest was easy to gather.  He had gone about
on the round of visits almost as an appendage to Lady Peacock, till they came to a free and
easy house, where her coquetry and love of admiration brought on one of those disputes which
rendered his championship needful; and such defence could only have one conclusion, especially
in Scotland, where hasty private marriages were still legal.  What an exchange!  Only had Griff
ever comprehended the worth of his treasure?

Emily went as late as she could, that there might be the less chance of a tete-a-tete, in which
she might be surprised into a betrayal of her secret:  indeed she only started at last when
Martyn's impatience had become intolerable.

What was our amazement when, much earlier than we expected, we saw Mr. Fordyce driving up in
his phaeton, and heard the story he had to tell.

Emily's delay had succeeded in bringing her only just in time for the luncheon that was to
be the children's dinner.  There was a keen-looking, active, sallow clergyman, grizzled, and
with an air of having seen much service; a pale, worn wife, with a gentle, sensible face; and
a bewildering flock of boys and girls, all apparently under the command of a very brisk, effective-looking
elder sister of fourteen or fifteen, who seemed to be the readiest authority, and to decide
what and how much each might partake of, among delicacies, evidently rare novelties.

The day was late in August.  The summer had broken; there had been rain, and, though fine,
the temperature was fitter for active sports than anything else.  Croquet was not yet invented,
and, besides, most of the party were of the age for regular games at play.  Ellen and Emily
did their part in starting these--finding, however, that the Reynolds boys were rather rough,
in spite of the objurgations of their sister, who evidently thought herself quite beyond the
age for romps.  The sports led them to the great home-field on the opposite slope of the ridge
from our own.  The new farm-buildings were on the level ground at the bottom to the right,
where the declivity was much more gradual than to the left, which was very steep, and ended
in furze bushes and low copsewood.  It was voted a splendid place for hide-and-seek, and the
game was soon in such full career that Ellen, who had had quite running enough, could fall
out of it, and with her, the other two elder girls.  Emily felt Fanny Reynolds' presence a
sort of protection, 'little guessing what she was up to,' to use her own expression.  Perhaps
the girl had not earlier made out who Emily was, or she had been too much absorbed in her cares;
but, as the three sat resting on a stump overlooking the hill, she was prompted by the singular
inopportuneness of precocious fourteen to observe, 'I ought to have congratulated you, Miss
Winslow.'

Emily gabbled out, 'Thank you, never mind,' hoping thus to put a stop to whatever might be
coming; but there was no such good fortune.  'We saw it in the paper.  It is your brother,
isn't it?'

'What?' asked unsuspicious Ellen, thinking, no doubt, of some fresh glory to Griffith.

And before Emily could utter a word, if there were any she could have uttered, out it came.
'The marriage--John Griffith Winslow, Esquire, eldest son of John Edward Winslow of Chantry
House, to Selina, relict of Sir Henry Peacock and daughter of George Clarkson, Esquire, Q.C.
I didn't think it could be you at first, because you would have been at the wedding.'

Emily had not even time to meet Ellen's eyes before they were startled by a shriek that was
not the merry 'whoop' and 'I spy' of the game, and, springing up, the girls saw little Anne
Fordyce rushing headlong down the very steepest part of the slope, just where it ended in an
extremely muddy pool, the watering-place of the cattle.  The child was totally unable to stop
herself, and so was Martyn, who was dashing after her.  Not a word was said, though, perhaps,
there was a shriek or two, but the elder sisters flew with one accord towards the pond.  They
also were some way above it, but at some distance off, so that the descent was not so perpendicular,
and they could guard against over-running themselves.  Ellen, perhaps from knowing the ground
better, was far before the other two; but already poor little Anne had gone straight down,
and fallen flat on her face in the water, Martyn after her, perhaps with a little more free
will, for, though he too fell, he was already struggling to lift Anne up, and had her head
above water, when Ellen arrived and dashed in to assist.

The pond began by being shallow, but the bottom sloped down into a deep hollow, and was besides
covered several feet deep with heavy cattle-trodden mire and weeds, in which it was almost
impossible to gain a footing, or to move.  By the time Emily and Miss Reynolds had come to
the brink, Ellen and Martyn were standing up in the water, leaning against one another, and
holding poor little Anne's head up- -all they could do.  Ellen called out, 'Don't! don't come
in!  Call some one!  The farm!  We are sinking in!  You can't help!  Call--'

The danger was really terrible of their sinking in the mud and weeds, and being sucked into
the deep part of the pool, and they were too far in to be reached from the bank.  Emily perceived
this, and ran as she had never run before, happily meeting on the way with the gentlemen, who
had been inspecting the new model farm-buildings, and had already taken alarm from the screams.

They found the three still with their heads above water, but no more, for every struggle to
get up the slope only plunged them deeper in the horrible mud.  Moreover, Fanny Reynolds was
up to her ankles in the mud, holding by one of her brothers, but unable to reach Martyn.  It
seems she had had some idea of forming a chain of hands to pull the others out.

Even now the rescue was not too easy.  Mr. Fordyce hurried in, and took Anne in his arms; but,
even with his height and strength, he found his feet slipping away under him, and could only
hand the little insensible girl to Mr. Reynolds, bidding him carry her at once to the house,
while he lifted Martyn up only just in time, and Ellen clung to him.  Thus weighted, he could
not get out, till the bailiff and another man had brought some faggots and a gate that were
happily near at hand, and helped him to drag the two out, perfectly exhausted, and Martyn hardly
conscious.  They both were carried to the Rectory,--Ellen by her father, Martyn by the foreman,--and
they were met at the door by the tidings that little Anne was coming to herself.

Indeed, by the time Mr. Fordyce had put on dry clothes, all three were safe in warm beds, and
quite themselves again, so that he trusted that no mischief was done; though he decided upon
fetching my mother to satisfy herself about Martyn.  However, a ducking was not much to a healthy
fellow like Martyn, and my mother found him quite fit to dress himself in the clothes she brought,
and to return home with her.  Both the girls were asleep, but Ellen had had a shivering fit,
and her mother was with her, and was anxious.  Emily told her mother of Fanny Reynolds' unfortunate
speech, and it was thought right to mention it.  Mrs. Fordyce listened kindly, kissed Emily,
and told her not to be distressed, for possibly it might turn out to have been the best thing
for Ellen to have learnt the fact at such a moment; and, at any rate, it had spared her parents
some doubt and difficulty as to the communication.

CHAPTER XXXII--WALY, WALY

'And am I then forgot, forgot? It broke the heart of Ellen!'

CAMPBELL

Clarence and Martyn walked over to Hillside the first thing the next morning to inquire for
the two sisters.  As to one, they were quickly reassured, for Anne was in the porch feeding
the doves, and no sooner did she see them than out she flew, and was clinging round Martyn's
neck, her hat falling back as she kissed him on both cheeks, with an eagerness that made him,
as Clarence reported, turn the colour of a lobster, and look shy, not to say sheepish, while
she exclaimed, ' Oh, Martyn! mamma says she never thanked you, for you really and truly did
save my life, and I am so glad it was you-- '

'It was not I, it was Ellen,' gruffly muttered Martyn.

'Oh yes! but papa says I should have been smothered in that horrid mud, before Ellen could
get to me if you had not pulled me up directly.'

The elders came out by this time, and Clarence was able to get in his inquiry.  Ellen had had
a feverish night, and her chest seemed oppressed, but her mother did not think her seriously
ill.  Once she had asked, 'Is it true, what Fanny Reynolds said?' and on being answered, 'Yes,
my dear, I am afraid it is,' she had said no more; and as the Fordyce habit of treating colds
was with sedatives, her mother thought her scarcely awake to the full meaning of the tidings,
and hoped to prevent her dwelling on them till she had recovered the physical shock.  Having
answered these inquiries, the two parents turned upon Martyn, who, in an access of shamefacedness,
had crept behind Clarence and a great orange-tree, and was thence pulled out by Anne's vigorous
efforts.  The full story had come to light.  The Reynolds' boys had grown boisterous as soon
as the restraint of the young ladies' participation had been removed, and had, whether intentionally
or not, terrified little Anne in the chases of hide-and-seek.  Finally, one of them had probably
been unable to withstand the temptation of seeing her timid nervous way of peeping and prying
about; and had, without waiting to be properly found, leapt out of his lair with a roar that
scared the little girl nearly out of her wits, and sent her flying, she knew not whither. Martyn
was a few steps behind, only not holding her hand, because the other children had derided her
for clinging to his protection. He had instantly seen where she was going, and shouted to her
to stop and take care; but she was past attending to him, and he had no choice but to dart
after her, seeing what was inevitable; while George Reynolds had sense to stop in time, and
seek a safer descent. Had Martyn not been there to raise the child instantly from the stifling
mud, her sister could hardly have been in time to save her.

Mrs. Fordyce tearfully kissed him; her husband called him a little hero, as if in joke, then
gravely blessed him; and he looked, Clarence related, as if he had been in the greatest possible
disgrace.

It was the second time that one of us had saved a life from drowning, but there was none of
the exultation we had felt that time before in London.  It was a much graver feeling, where
the danger had really been greater, and the rescue had been of one so dear to us.  It was tempered
likewise by anxiety about our dear Ellen--ours, alas, no longer!  She was laid up for several
days, and it was thought better that she should not see Emily till she had recovered; but after
a week had passed, her father drove over to discuss some plans for the Poor-Law arrangements,
and begged my sister to go back in the carriage and spend the day with his daughter.

We brothers could now look forward to some real intelligence; we became restless; and in the
afternoon Clarence and I set out with the donkey-chair on the woodland path to meet Emily.
We gained more than we had hoped, for as we came round one of the turns in the winding path,
up the hanging beech-wood, we came on the two friends- -Ellen, a truly Una-like figure, in
her white dress with her black scarf making a sable stole.  Perhaps we betrayed some confusion,
for there was a bright flush on her cheeks as she came towards us, and, standing straight up,
said, 'Clarence, Edward, I am so glad you are here; I wanted to see you.  I wanted--to say--I
know he could not help it.  It was his generosity--helping those that need it; and-- and--I'm
not angry.  And though that's all over, you'll always be my brothers, won't you?'

She held her outstretched hands to us both.  I could not help it, I drew her down, and kissed
her brow; Clarence clasped her other hand and held it to his lips, but neither of us could
utter a word.

She turned back and went quietly away through the wood, while Emily sank down under the beech-tree
in a paroxysm of grief.  You may see which it was, for Clarence cut out 'E. M. F., 1835' upon
the bark. He soothed and caressed poor Emily as in old nursery troubles; and presently she
told us that it would be long before we saw that dear one again, for Mrs. Fordyce was going
to take her away on the morrow.

Mrs. Fordyce had seen Emily in private, before letting her go to Ellen.  There was evidently
a great wish to be kind.  Mrs. Fordyce said she could never forget what she owed to us all,
and could not think of blaming any of us.  'But,' she said, 'you are a sensible girl, Emily,'--'how
I hate being called a sensible girl,' observed the poor child, in parenthesis,--'and you must
see that it is desirable not to encourage her to indulge in needless discussion after she once
understands the facts.'  She added that she thought a cessation of present intercourse would
be wise till the sore was in some degree healed.  She had not been satisfied about her daughter's
health for some time, and meant to take her to Bath the next day to consult a physician, and
then decide what would be best.  'And, my dear,' she said, 'if there should be a slackening
of correspondence, do not take it as unkindness, but as a token that my poor child is recovering
her tone.  Do not discontinue writing to her, but be guarded, and perhaps less rapid, in replying.'

It was for her friendship that poor Emily wept so bitterly--the first friendship that had been
an enthusiasm to her; looking at it as a cruel injustice that Griff's misdoing should separate
them. The prediction that all might be lived down and forgotten was too vague and distant to
be much consolation; indeed, we were too young to take it in.

We had it all over again in a somewhat grotesque form when, at another turn in the wood, we
came upon Martyn and Anne, loaded with treasures from their robbers' cave, some of which were
bestowed in my chair, the others carried off between Anne and her not very willing nursery-maid.

Anne kissed us all round, and augured cheerfully that she should lay up a store of shells and
rocks by the seaside to make 'a perfect Robinson Crusoe cavern,' she said, 'and then Clarence
can come and be the Spaniards and the savages.  But that won't be till next summer,' she added,
shaking her head.  'I shall get Ellen to tell Emily what shells I find, and then she can tell
Martyn; for mamma says girls never write to boys unless they are their brothers!  And now Martyn
will never be my brother,' she added ruefully.

'You will always be our darling,' I said.

'That's not the same as your sister,' she answered.  However, amid auguries of the combination
of robbers and Robinson Crusoe, the parting was effected, and Anne borne off by the maid; while
we had Martyn on our hands, stamping about and declaring that it was very hard that because
Griff chose to be a faithless, inconstant ruffian, all his pleasure and comfort in life should
be stopped!  He said such outrageous things that, between scolding him and laughing at him,
Emily had been somewhat cheered by the time we reached the house.

My father had written to Griffith, in his first displeasure, curt wishes that he might not
have reason to repent of the step he had taken, though he had not gone the right way to obtain
a blessing. As it was not suitable that a man should be totally dependent on his wife, his
allowance should be continued; but under present circumstances he must perceive that he and
Lady Peacock could not be received at Chantry House.  We were shown the letter, and thought
it terribly brief and cold; but my mother said it would be weak to offer forgiveness that was
not sought, and my father was specially exasperated at the absence of all contrition as to
the treatment of Ellen.  All Griff had vouchsafed on that head was--the rupture had been the
Fordyces' doing; he was not bound.  As to intercourse with him, Clarence and I might act as
we saw fit.

'Only,' said my father, as Clarence was leaving home, 'I trust you not to get yourself involved
in this set.'

Clarence gave a queer smile, 'They would not take me as a gift, papa.'

And as my father turned from the hall door, he laid his hand on his wife's arm, and said, 'Who
would have told us what that young fellow would be to us.'

She sighed, and said, 'He is not twenty-three; he has plenty of money, and is very fond of Griff.'

CHAPTER XXXIII--THE RIVER'S BANK

'And my friend rose up in the shadows,
   And turned to me,
"Be of good cheer," I said faintly,
   For He called thee.'

B. M.

Mr. Fordyce waited at Hillside till after Sunday, and then went to Bath to hear the verdict
of the physician.  He returned as much depressed as it was in his sanguine nature to be, for
great delicacy of the lungs had been detected; and to prevent the recent chill from leaving
permanent injury, Ellen must have a winter abroad, and warm sea or mountain air at once.  Whether
the disease were constitutional and would have come on at all events no one could tell.

Consumption was much less understood half a century ago; codliver oil was unknown; and stethoscopes
were new inventions, only used by the more advanced of the faculty.  The only escape poor Parson
Frank had from accepting the doom was in disbelieving that a thing like a trumpet could really
reveal the condition of the chest.  Moreover, Mrs. Fordyce had had a brother who had, under
the famous cowhouse cure, recovered enough to return home, and be killed by the upsetting of
a stage coach.

Mrs. Fordyce took her daughter to Lyme, and waited there till her husband had found a curate
and made all arrangements.  It must have been very inconvenient not to come home; but, no doubt,
she wanted to prevent any more partings.  Then they went abroad, travelling slowly, and seeing
all the sights that came in their way, to distract Ellen's thoughts.  She was not allowed to
hear what ailed her; but believed her languor and want of interest in everything to be the
effect of the blow she had received, struggling to exert herself, and to enter gratefully into
the enjoyments provided for her.  She was not prevented from writing to Emily; indeed, no one
liked to hinder anything she wished, but they were guide-book letters, describing all she saw
as a kind of duty, but scarcely concealing the trouble it was to look.  Such sentences would
slip out as 'This is a nice quiet place, and I am happy to say there is nothing that one ought
to see.'  Or, 'I sat in the cathedral at Lucerne while the others were going round.  The organ
was playing, and it was such rest!'  Or, again, after a day on the Lago di Como, 'It was glorious,
and if you and Edward were here, perhaps the beauty would penetrate my sluggish soul!'

Ellen's sluggish soul!--when we remembered her keen ecstasy at the Valley of Rocks.

Those letters were our chief interest in an autumn which seemed dreary to us, in spite of friendly
visitors; for had not our family hope and joy been extinguished?  There was no direct communication
with Griffith after his unpleasant reply to my father's letter; but Clarence saw the newly
married pair on their return to Lady Peacock's house in London, and reported that they were
very kind and friendly to him, and gave him more invitations than he could accept. Being cross-examined
when he came home for Christmas, he declared his conviction that Lady Peacock had married Griff
entirely from affection, and that he had been--well--flattered into it.  They seemed very fond
of each other now, and were launching out into all sorts of gaieties; but though he did not
tell my father, he confided to me that he feared that Griffith had been disappointed in the
amount of fortune at his wife's disposal.

It was at that Christmas time, one night, having found an intrusive cat upon my bed, Clarence
carried her out at the back door close to his room, and came back in haste and rather pale.
'It is quite true about the lady and the light being seen out of doors,' he said in an awe-stricken
voice, 'I have just seen her flit from the mullion room to the ruin.'

We only noted the fact in that ghost-diary of ours--we told nobody, and looked no more.  We
already believed that these appearances on the lawn must be the cause that every window, up
to the attics on the garden side of the house, were so heavily shuttered and barred that there
was no opening them without noise.  Indeed, those on the ground floor had in addition bells
attached to them.  No doubt the former inhabitants had done their best to prevent any one from
seeing or inquiring into what was unacknowledged and unaccountable. It might be only a coincidence,
but we could not help remarking that we had seen and heard nothing of her during the engagement
which might have united the two families; though, of course, it would be ridiculous to suppose
her cognisant of it, like the White Lady of Avenel, dancing for joy at Mary's marriage with
Halbert Glendinning.

The Fordyces had settled at Florence, where they suffered a great deal more from cold than
they would have done at Hillside; and there was such a cessation of Ellen's letters that Emily
feared that Mrs. Fordyce had attained her wish and separated the friends effectually. However,
Frank Fordyce beguiled his enforced leisure with long letters to my father on home business,
Austrian misgovernment, and the Italian Church and people, full of shrewd observations and
new lights; and one of these ended thus, 'My poor lassie has been in bed for ten days with
a severe cold.  She begs me to say that she has begun a letter to Emily, and hopes soon to
finish it.  We had thought her gaining ground, but she is sadly pulled down.  Fiat voluntas.'

The letter, which had been begun, never came; but, after three long weeks, there was one from
the dear patient herself, mentioning her illness, and declaring that it was so comfortable
to be allowed to be tired, and to go nowhere and see nothing except the fragment of beautiful
blue sky, and the corner of a campanile, and the flowers Anne brought in daily.

As soon as she could be moved, they took her to Genoa, where she revived enough to believe
that she should be well if she were at home again, and to win from her parents a promise to
take her to Hillside as soon as the spring winds were over.  So anxious was she that, as soon
as there was any safety in travelling, the party began moving northwards, going by sea to Marseilles
to avoid the Corniche, so early in the year.  There were many fluctuations, and it was only
her earnest yearning for home and strong resolution that could have made her parents persevere;
but at last they were at Hillside, just after Whitsuntide, in the last week of May.

Frank Fordyce walked over to see us on the very evening after their arrival.  He was much altered,
his kindly handsome face looked almost as if he had gone through an illness; and, indeed, apart
from all his anxiety and sorrow, he had pined in foreign parts for his human flock, as well
as his bullocks and his turnips.  He had also read, thought, and observed a great deal, and
had left his long boyhood behind him, during a space for study and meditation such as he had
never had before.

He was quite hopeless of his daughter's recovery, and made no secret of it.  In passing through
London the best advice had been taken, but only to obtain the verdict that the case was beyond
all skill, and that it was only a matter of weeks, when all that could be done was to give
as much gratification as possible.  The one thing that Ellen did care about was to be at home--to
have Emily with her, and once more see her school children, her church, and her garden. Tired
as she was she had sprung up in the carriage at the first glimpse of Hillside spire, and had
leant forward at the window, nodding and smiling her greetings to all the villagers.

She had been taken at once to her room and her bed, but her father had promised to beg Emily
to come up by noon on the morrow.  Then he sat talking of local matters, not able to help showing
what infinite relief it was to him to be at home, and what music to his ears was the Somersetshire
dialect and deep English voice 'after all those thin, shrill, screeching foreigners.'

Poor Emily!  It was in mingled grief and gladness that she set off the next day, with the trepidation
of one to whom sickness and decay were hitherto unknown.  When she returned, it was in a different
mood, unable to believe the doctors could be right, and in the delight of having her own bright,
sweet Ellen back again, all herself.  They had talked, but more of home and village than of
foreign experiences; and though Ellen did not herself assist, she had much enjoyed watching
the unpacking of the numerous gifts which had cost a perfect fortune at the Custom House. 
No one seemed forgotten--villagers, children, servants, friends.  Some of these tokens are
before me still.  The Florentine mosaic paper-weight she brought me presses this very sheet;
the antique lamp she gave my father is on the mantelpiece; Clarence's engraving of Raffaelle's
St. Michael hangs opposite to me on the wall.  Most precious in our eyes was the collection
of plants, dried and labelled by herself, which she brought to Emily and me--poor mummies now,
but redolent of undying affection.  Her desire was to bestow all her keepsakes with her own
hands, and in most cases she actually did so--a few daily, as her strength served her.  The
little figures in costume, coloured prints, Swiss carvings, French knicknacks, are preserved
in many a Hillside cottage as treasured relics of 'our young lady.'  Many years later, Martyn
recognised a Hillside native in a back street in London by a little purple-blue picture of
Vesuvius, and thereby reached the soft spot in a nearly dried-up heart.

So bright and playful was the dear girl over all her old familiar interests that we inexperienced
beings believed not only that the wound to her affections was healed, but that she either did
not know or did not realise the sentence that had been pronounced on her; but when this was
repeated to her mother, it was met by a sad smile and the reply that we only saw her in her
best hours.  Still, through the summer, it was impossible to us to accept the truth; she looked
so lovely, was so cheerful, and took such delight in all that was about her.

With the first cold, however, she seemed to shrivel up, and the bad nights extended into the
days.  Emily ascribed the change to the lack of going out into the air, and always found reasons
for the increased languor and weakness; till at last there came a day when my poor little sister
seemed as if the truth had broken upon her for the first time, when Ellen talked plainly to
her of their parting, and had asked us both, 'her dear brother and sister,' to be with her
at her Communion on All Saints' Day.

She had written a little letter to Clarence, begging his forgiveness for having cut him, and
treated him with the scorn which, I believe, was the chief fault that weighed upon her conscience;
and, hearing my father's voice in the house, she sent a message to beg him to come and see
her in her mother's dressing-room--that very window where I had first heard her voice, refusing
to come down to 'those Winslows.'  She had sent for him to entreat him to forgive Griffith
and recall the pair to Chantry House.  'Not now,' she said, 'but when I am gone.'

My father could deny her nothing, though he showed that the sight of her made the entreaty
all the harder to him; and she pleaded, 'But you know this was not his doing.  I never was
strong, and it had begun before.  Only think how sad it would have been for him.'

My father would have promised anything with that wasted hand on his, those fervent eyes gazing
on him, and he told her he would have given his pardon long ago, if it had been sought, as
it never had been.

'Ah! perhaps he did not dare!' she said.  'Won't you write when all this is over, and then
you will be one family again as you used to be?'

He promised, though he scarcely knew where Griffith was.  Clarence, however, did.  He had answered
Ellen's letter, and it had made him ask for a few days' leave of absence.  So he came down
on the Saturday, and was allowed a quarter of an hour beside Ellen's sofa in the Sunday evening
twilight.  He brought away the calm, rapt expression I had sometimes seen on his face at church,
and Ellen made a special entreaty that he might share the morrow's feast.

There are some things that cannot be written of, and that was one. Still we had not thought
the end near at hand, though on Tuesday morning a message was sent that Ellen was suffering
and exhausted, and could not see Emily.  It was a wild, stormy day, with fierce showers of
sleet, and we clung to the hope that consideration for my sister had prompted the message.
In the afternoon Clarence battled with a severe gale, made his way to Hillside, and heard that
the weather affected the patient, and that there was much bodily distress.  For one moment
he saw her father, who said in broken accents that we could only pray that the spirit might
be freed without much more suffering, 'though no doubt it is all right.'

Before daylight, before any one in the house was up, Clarence was mounting the hill in the
gusts that had done their work on the trees and were subsiding with the darkness.  And just
as he was beginning the descent, as the sun tipped the Hillside steeple with light, he heard
the knell, and counted the twenty-one for the years of our Ellen--for ours she will always be.

'Somehow,' he told me, 'I could not help taking off my hat and giving thanks for her, and then
all the drops on all the boughs began sparkling, and there was a hush on all around as if she
were passing among the angels, and a thrush broke out into a regular song of jubilee!'

CHAPTER XXXIV--NOT IN VAIN

'Then cheerly to your work again,
   With hearts new braced and set
To run untired love's blessed race,
As meet for those who face to face
   Over the grave their Lord have met.'

KEBLE.

That dying request could not but be held sacred, and overtures were made to Griffith, who returned
an odd sort of answer, friendly and affectionate, but rather as if my father were the offending
party in need of forgiveness.  He and his wife were obliged for the invitation, but could not
accept it, as they had taken a house near Melton-Mowbray for the hunting season, and were entertaining
friends.

In some ways it was disappointing, in others it was a relief, not to have the restraint of
Lady Peacock's presence during the last days we were to have with the Fordyces.  For a fresh
loss came upon us. Beachharbour was a fishing-village on the north-western coast, which, within
the previous decade, had sprung into importance, on the one hand as a fashionable resort, on
the other as a minor port for colliers.  The living was wretchedly poor, and had been held
for many years by one of the old inferior stamp of clergy, scarcely superior in habits or breeding
to the farmers, and only outliving the scandals of his youth to fall into a state of indolent
carelessness.  It was in the gift of a child, for whom Sir Horace Lester was trustee, and that
gentleman had written, about a fortnight before Ellen's death, to consult Mr. Fordyce on its
disposal, declaring the great difficulties and deficiencies of the place, which made it impossible
to offer it to any one without considerable private means, and also able to attract and improve
the utterly demoralised population.  He ended, almost in joke, by saying, 'In fact, I know
no one who could cope with the situation but yourself; I wish you could find me your own counterpart,
or come yourself in earnest.  It is just the air that suits my sister-- bracing sea-breezes;
the parsonage, though a wretched place, is well situated, and she would be all the stronger;
but in poor Ellen's state there is no use in talking of it, and besides I know you are wedded
to your fertile fields and Somersetshire clowns.'

That letter (afterwards shown to us) had worked on Mr. Fordyce's mind during those mournful
days.  He was still young enough to leave behind him Parson Frank and the 'squarson' habits
of Hillside in which he had grown up; and the higher and more spiritual side of his nature
had been fostered by the impressions of the last year.  He was conscious, as he said, that
his talk had been overmuch of bullocks, and that his farm had engrossed him more than he wished
should happen again, though a change would be tearing himself up by the roots; and as to his
own people at Hillside, the curate, an active young man, had well supplied his place, and,
in his TRULY humble opinion, though by no means in theirs, introduced several improvements
even in that model parish.

What had moved him most, however, was a conversation he had had with Ellen, with whom during
this last year he had often held deep and serious counsel, with a growing reverence on his
side.  He had read her uncle's letter to her, and to his great surprise found that she looked
on it as a call.  Devotedly fond as she herself was of Hillside, she could see that her father's
abilities were wasted on so small a field, in a manner scarcely good for himself, and she had
been struck with the greater force of his sermons when preaching to educated congregations
abroad.  If no one else could or would take efficient charge of these Beachharbour souls, she
could see that it would weigh on his conscience to take comparative ease in his own beloved
meadows, among a flock almost his vassals.  Moreover, she relieved his mind about her mother.
She had discovered, what the good wife kept out of sight, that the north-country woman never
could entirely have affinities with the south, and she had come to the conclusion that Mrs.
Fordyce's spirits would be heavily tried by settling down at Hillside in the altered state
of things.

After this talk, Mr. Fordyce had suggested a possible incumbent to his brother-in-law, but
left the matter open; and when Sir Horace came down to the funeral, it was more thoroughly
discussed; and, as soon as Mrs. Fordyce saw that departure would not break her husband's heart,
she made no secret of the way that both her opinion and her inclinations lay.  She told my
mother that she had always believed her own ill-health was caused by the southern climate,
and that she hoped that Anne would grow up stronger than her sister in the northern breezes.

Poor little Anne!  Of all the family, to her the change was the greatest grief.  The tour on
the Continent had been a dull affair to her; she was of the age to weary of long confinement
in the carriage and in strange hotels, and too young to appreciate 'grown-up' sights.  Picture-galleries
and cathedrals were only a drag to her, and if the experiences that were put into Rosella's
mouth for the benefit of her untravelled sisters could have been written down, they would have
been as unconventional as Mark Twain's adventures. Rosella went through the whole tour, and
left a leg behind in the hinge of a door, but in compensation brought home a Paris bonnet and
mantle.  She seemed to have been her young mistress's chief comfort, next to an occasional
game of play with her father, or a walk, looking in at the shop windows and watching marionettes,
or, still better, the wonderful sports of brown-legged street children, without trying to make
her speak French or Italian--in her eyes one of the inflictions of the journey, in those of
her elders the one benefit she might gain.  She had missed the petting to which she had been
accustomed from her grandfather and from all of us; and she had absolutely counted the days
till she could get home again, and had fallen into dire disgrace for fits of crying when Ellen's
weakness caused delays.  Martyn's holidays had been a time of rapture to her, for there was
no one to attend much to her at home, and she was too young to enter into the weight of anxiety;
so the two had run as wild together as a gracious well-trained damsel of ten and a fourteen-year-old
boy with tender chivalry awake in him could well do.  To be out of the way was all that was
asked of her for the time, and all old delights, such as the robbers' cave, were renewed with
fresh zest.

'It was the sweetest and the last.'

And though Martyn was gone back to school, the child felt the wrench from home most severely.
As she told me on one of those sorrowful days, 'She did think she had come back to live at
dear, dear little Hillside all the days of her life.'  Poor child, we became convinced that
this vehement attachment to Griffith's brothers was one factor in Mrs. Fordyce's desire to
make a change that should break off these habits of intimacy and dependence.

Pluralities had not become illegal, and Frank Fordyce, being still the chief landholder in
Hillside, and wishing to keep up his connection with his people, did not resign the rectory,
though he put the curate into the house, and let the farm.  Once or twice a year he came to
fulfil some of a landlord's duties, and was as genial and affectionate as ever, but more and
more absorbed in the needs of Beachharbour, and unconsciously showing his own growth in devotion
and activity; while he brought his splendid health and vigour, his talent, his wealth, and,
above all, his winning charm of manner and address, to that magnificent work at Beachharbour,
well known to all of you; though, perhaps, you never guessed that the foundation of all those
churches and their grand dependent works of piety, mercy, and beneficence was laid in one young
girl's grave.  I never heard of a fresh achievement there without remembering how the funeral
psalm ends with -

'Prosper Thou the work of our hands upon us, O prosper Thou our handiwork.'

And Emily?  Her drooping after the loss of her friend was sad, but it would have been sadder
but for the spirit Ellen had infused.  We found the herbs to heal our woe round our pathway,
though the first joyousness of life had departed.  The reports Mr. Henderson and the Hillside
curate brought from Oxford were great excitements to us, and we thought and puzzled over church
doctrine, and tried to impart it to our scholars.  We I say, for Henderson had made me take
a lads' class, which has been the chief interest of my life.  Even the roughest were good to
their helpless teacher, and some men, as gray- headed as myself, still come every Sunday to
read with Mr. Edward, and are among the most faithful friends of my life.

CHAPTER XXXV--GRIFF'S BIRD

'Shall such mean little creatures pretend to the fashion? Cousin Turkey Cock, well may you
be in a passion.'

The Peacock at Home.

It was not till the second Christmas after dear Ellen Fordyce's death that my eldest brother
brought his wife and child to Chantry House, after an urgent letter to Lady Peacock from my
mother, who yearned for a sight of Griffith's boy.

I do not wish to dwell on that visit.  Selina, or Griff's bird, as Martyn chose to term her,
was certainly handsome and stylish; but her complexion had lost freshness and delicacy, and
the ladies said her colour was rouge, and her fine figure due to other female mysteries.  She
meant to be very gracious, and patronised everybody, especially Emily, who, she said, would
be quite striking if not sacrificed by her dress, and whom she much wished to take to London,
engaging to provide her with a husband before the season was over, not for a moment believing
my mother's assurance that it would be a trial to us all whenever we had to resign our Emily.
Nay, she tried to condole with the poor moped family slave, and was received with such hot
indignation as made her laugh, for, to do her justice, she was good-natured and easy-tempered.
However, I saw less of her than did the others, for I believe she thought the sight of me made
her ill.  Griff, poor old fellow, was heartily glad to be with us again, but quite under her
dominion.  He had lost his glow of youth and grace of figure, his complexion had reddened,
and no one would have guessed him only a year older than Clarence, whose shoulders did indeed
reveal something of the desk, but whose features, though pale, were still fair and youthful.
The boy was another Clarence, not so much in compliment to his godfather as because it was
the most elegant name in the family, and favoured an interesting belief, current among his
mother's friends, that the king had actually stood sponsor to the uncle.  Poor little man,
his grandmother shut herself into the bookroom and cried, after her first sight of him.  He
was a wretched, pinched morsel of humanity, though mamma and Emily detected wonderful resemblances;
I never saw them, but then he inherited his mother's repulsion towards me, and roared doubly
at the sight of me.  My mother held that he was the victim of Selina's dissipations and mismanagement
of herself and him, and gave many matronly groans at his treatment by the smart, flighty nurse,
who waged one continual warfare with the household.

Accustomed to absolute supremacy in domestic matters, it was very hard for my mother to have
her counsels and experience set at naught, and, if she appealed to Griff, to find her notions
treated with the polite deference he might have shown to a cottage dame.

A course of dinner-parties could not hinder her ladyship from finding Chantry House insufferably
dull, 'always like Sunday;' and, when she found that we were given to Saints' Day services,
her pity and astonishment knew no bounds.  'It was all very well for a poor object like Edward,'
she held, 'but as to Mr. Winslow and Clarence, did they go for the sake of example?  Though,
to be sure, Clarence might be a Papist any day.'

Popery, instead of Methodism, was just beginning to be the bugbear set up for those whom the
world held to be ultra-religious, and my mother was so far disturbed at our interest in what
was termed Oxford theology that the warning would have alarmed her if it had come from any
other quarter.  However, Lady Peacock was rather fond of Clarence, and entertained him with
schemes for improving Chantry House when it should have descended to Griffith.  The mullion
rooms were her special aversion, and were all to be swept away, together with the vaultings
and the ruin--'enough to give one the blues, if there were nothing else,' she averred.

We really felt it to the credit of our country that Sir George Eastwood sent an invitation
to an early dance to please his young daughters; and for this our visitors prolonged their
stay.  My mother made Clarence go, that she might have some one to take care of her and Emily,
since Griff was sure to be absorbed by his lady. Emily had not been to a ball since those gay
days in London with Ellen.  She shrank back from the contrast, and would have begged off; but
she was told that she must submit; and though she said she felt immeasurably older than at
that happy time, I believe she was not above being pleased with the pale pink satin dress and
wreath of white jessamine, which my father presented to her, and in which, according to Martyn,
she beat 'Griff's bird all to shivers.'

Clarence had grown much less bashful and embarrassed since the Tooke affair had given him a
kind of position and a sense of not being a general disgrace.  He really was younger in some
ways at five-and- twenty than at eighteen; he enjoyed dancing, and especially enjoyed the compliments
upon our sister, whom in our usual fashion we viewed as the belle of the ball.  He was standing
by my fire, telling me the various humours of the night, when a succession of shrieks ran through
the house.  He dashed away to see what was the matter, and returned, in a few seconds, saying
that Selina had seen some one in the garden, and neither she nor mamma would be satisfied without
examination--'though, of course, I know what it must be,' he added, as he drew on his coat.

'Bill, are you coming?' said Griff at the door.  'You needn't, if you don't like it.  I bet
it is your old friend.'

'I'm coming!  I'm coming!  I'm sure it is,' shouted Martyn from behind, with the inconsistent
addition, 'I've got my gun.'

'Enough to dispose of any amount of robbers or phantoms either,' observed Griff as they went
forth by the back door, reinforced by Amos Bell with a lantern in one hand and a poker in the
other.

My father was fortunately still asleep, and my mother came down to see whether I was frightened.

She said she had no patience with Selina, and had left her to Emily and her maid; but, before
many words had been spoken, they all came creeping down after her, feeling safety in numbers,
or perhaps in her entire fearlessness.  The report of a gun gave us all a shock, and elicited
another scream or two.  My mother, hoping that no one was hurt, hastened into the hall, but
only to meet Griff, hurrying in laughing to reassure us with the tidings that it was only Martyn,
who had shot the old sun-dial by way of a robber; and he was presently followed by the others,
Martyn rather crestfallen, but arguing with all his might that the sun-dial was exactly like
a man; and my mother hurried every one off upstairs without further discussion.

Clarence was rather white, and when Martyn demanded, 'Do you really think it was the ghost?
Fancy her selection of the bird!' he gravely answered, 'Martyn, boy, if it were, it is not
a thing to speak of in that tone.  You had better go to bed.'

Martyn went off, somewhat awed.  Clarence was cold and shivering, and stood warming himself.
He was going to wind up his watch, but his hand shook, and I did it for him, noting the hour--twenty
minutes past one.

It appeared that Selina, on going upstairs, recollected that she had left her purse in Griff's
sitting-room before going to dress, and had gone in quest of it.  She heard strange shouts
and screams outside, and, going to one of the old windows, where the shutters were less unmanageable
than elsewhere, she beheld a woman rushing towards the house pursued by at least a couple of
men.  Filled with terror she had called out, and nearly fainted in Griff's arms.

'It agrees with all we have heard before,' said Clarence, 'the very day and hour!'

'As Martyn said, the person is strange.'

'Villagers, less concerned, have seen the like,' he said; 'and, indeed, all unconsciously poor
Selina has cut away the hope of redress,' he sighed.  'Poor, restless spirit! would that I
could do anything for her.'

'Let me ask, do you ever see her now?'

'N-no, I suppose not; but whenever I am anxious or worried, the trouble takes her form in my
dreams.'

Lady Peacock had soon extracted the ghost story from her husband, and, though she professed
to be above the vulgar folly of belief in it, her nerves were so upset, she said, that nothing
would have induced her to sleep another night in the house.  The rational theory on this occasion
was that one of the maids must have stolen out to join in the Christmas entertainment at the
Winslow Arms, and been pursued home by some tipsy revellers; but this explanation was not productive
of goodwill between the mother and daughter-in-law, since mamma had from the first so entirely
suspected Selina's smart nurse as actually to have gone straight to the nursery on the plea
of seeing whether the baby had been frightened.  The woman was found asleep--apparently so--said
my mother, but all her clothes were in an untidy heap on the floor, which to my mother was
proof conclusive that she had slipped into the house in the confusion, and settled herself
there.  Had not my mother with her own eyes watched from the window her flirtations with the
gardener, and was more evidence requisite to convict her?  Mamma entertained the hope that
her proposal would be adopted of herself taking charge of her grandson, and fattening his poor
little cheeks on our cows' milk, while the rest of the party continued their round of visits.

Lady Peacock, however, treated it as a personal imputation that HER nurse should be accused
instead of any servant of Mrs. Winslow's own, though, as Griff observed, not only character,
but years and features might alike acquit them of any such doings; but even he could not laugh
long, for it was no small vexation to him that such offence should have arisen between his
mother and wife.  Of course there was no open quarrel--my mother had far too much dignity to
allow it to come to that--but each said in private bitter things of the other, and my lady's
manner of declining to leave her baby at Chantry House was almost offensive.

Poor Griffith, who had been growing more like himself every day, tried in vain to smooth matters,
and would have been very glad to leave his child to my mother's management, though, of course,
he acquitted the nurse of the midnight adventure.  He privately owned to us that he had no
opinion of the woman, but he defended her to my mother, in whose eyes this was tantamount to
accusing her own respectable maids, since it was incredible that any rational person could
accept the phantom theory.

Gladly would he have been on better terms, for he had had to confess that his wife's fortune
had turned out to be much less than common report had stated, or than her style of living justified,
and that his marriage had involved him in a sea of difficulties, so that he had to beg for
a larger allowance, and for assistance in paying off debts.

The surrender of the London house and of some of the chief expenses were made conditions of
such favours, and Griffith had assented gratefully when alone with his father; but after an
interview with his wife, demonstrations were made that it was highly economical to have a house
in town, and horses, carriages, and servants and that any change would be highly derogatory
to the heir of Earlscombe and the sacred wishes of the late Sir Henry Peacock.

In fact, it was impressed on us that we were mere homely, countrified beings, who could not
presume to dictate to her ladyship, but who had ill requited her condescension in deigning
to beam upon us.

CHAPTER XXXVI--SLACK WATER

'O dinna look, ye prideful queen, on a' aneath your ken, For he wha seems the farthest BUT
aft wins the farthest BEN, And whiles the doubie of the schule tak's lead of a' the rest: The
birdie sure to sing is the gorbal of the nest.

'The cauld, grey, misty morn aft brings a sunny summer day; The tree wha's buds are latest
is longest to decay; The heart sair tried wi' sorrow still endures the sternest test: The birdie
sure to sing is the gorbal of the nest.

'The wee wee stern that glints in heaven may be a lowin' sun, Though like a speck of light
it seem amid the welkin dun; The humblest sodger on the field may win a warrior's crest: The
birdie sure to sing is the gorbal of the nest.'

Scotch Newspaper.

The wickedness of the nurse was confirmed in my mother's eyes when the doom on the first-born
of the Winslows was fulfilled, and the poor little baby, Clarence, succumbed to a cold on the
chest caught while his nurse was gossiping with a guardsman.

He was buried in London.  'It was better for Selina to get those things over as quickly as
possible,' said Griff; but Clarence saw that he suffered much more than his wife would let
him show to her. 'It is so bad for him to dwell on it,' she said.  'You see.  I never let myself
give way.'

And she was soon going out, nearly as usual, till their one other infant came to open its eyes
only for a few hours on this troublesome world, and owe its baptism to Clarence's exertions.
My mother, who was in London just after, attending on the good old Admiral's last illness,
was greatly grieved and disgusted with all she heard and saw of the young pair, and that was
not much.  She felt their disregard of her uncle as heartless, or rather as insulting, on Selina's
part, and weak on Griff's; and on all sides she heard of their reckless extravagance, which
made her forebode the worst.

All these disappointments much diminished my father's pleasure and interest in his inheritance.
He had little heart to build and improve, when his eldest son's wife made no secret of her
hatred to the place, or to begin undertakings only to be neglected by those who came after;
and thus several favourite schemes were dropped, or prevented by Griffith's applications for
advances.

At last there was a crisis.  At the end of the second season after their visit to us, Clarence
sent a hasty note, begging my father to join him in averting an execution in Griffith's house.
I cannot record the particulars, for just at that time I had a long low fever, and did not
touch my diary for many weeks; nor indeed did I know much about the circumstances, since my
good nurses withheld as much as possible, and would not let me talk about what they believed
to make me worse.  Nor can I find any letters about it.  I believe they were all made away
with long ago, and thus I only know that my father hurried up to town, remained for a fortnight,
and came back looking ten years older.  The house in London had been given up, and he had offered
a vacant one of our own, near home, to Griff to retrench in, but Selina would not hear of it,
insisting on going abroad.

This was a great grief to him and to us all.  There was only one side of our lives that was
not saddened.  Our old incumbent had died about six months after the Fordyces had gone, and
Mr. Henderson had gladly accepted the living where the parsonage had been built.  The lady
to whom he had been so long engaged was a great acquisition. Her home had been at Oxford; and
she was as thoroughly imbued with the spirit that there prevailed as was the Hillside curate.
She talked to us of Littlemore, and of the sermons there and at St. Mary's, and Emily and I
shared to the full her hero-worship.  It was the nearest compensation my sister had had for
the loss of Ellen, with this difference, that Mrs. Henderson was older, had read more, and
had conversed thoughtfully with some of the leading spirits in religious thought, so that she
opened a new world to us.

People would hardly believe in our eagerness and enthusiasm over the revelations of church
doctrine; how we debated, consulted our books, and corresponded with Clarence over what now
seems so trite; how we viewed the British Critic and Tracts for the Times as our oracles, and
worried the poor Wattlesea bookseller to get them for us at the first possible moment.

Church restoration was setting in.  Henderson had always objected to christening from a slop-basin
on the altar, and had routed out a dilapidated font; and now one, which was termed by the country
paper chaste and elegant, was by united efforts, in which Clarence had the lion's share, presented
in time for the christening of the first child at the Parsonage.  It is that which was sent
off to the Mission Chapel as a blot on the rest of Earlscombe Church.  Yet what an achievement
it was deemed at the time!

The same may be said of most of our doings at that era.  We effected them gradually, and have
ever since been undoing them, as our architectural and ecclesiastical perceptions have advanced.
I wonder how the next generation will deal with our alabaster reredos and our stained windows,
with which we are all as well pleased as we were fifty years ago with the plain red cross with
a target-like arrangement above and below it in the east window, or as poor Margaret may have
been with her livery altar-cloth.  Indeed, it seems to me that we got more delight out of our
very imperfect work, designed by ourselves and sent to Clarence to be executed by men in back
streets in London, costing an immensity of trouble, than can be had now by simply choosing
out of a book of figures of cut and dried articles.

What an enthusiastic description Clarence sent of the illuminated commandments in the new Church
of St. Katharine in the Regent's Park!  How Emily and I gloated over the imitation of them
when we replaced the hideous old tables, and how exquisite we thought the initial I, which
irreverent youngsters have likened, with some justice, to an enormous overfed caterpillar,
enwreathed with red and green cabbage leaves!

My mother was startled at these innovations; but my father, who had kept abreast with the thought
of the day, owned to the doctrines as chiming in with his unbroken belief, and transferred
to the improvements in the church the interest which he had lost in the estate.  The farmers
had given up their distrust of him, and accepted him loyally as friend and landlord, submitting
to the reseating of the church, and only growling moderately at decorations that cost them
nothing.  Daily service began as soon as Henderson was his own master, and was better attended
than it is now; for the old people to whom it was a novelty took up the habit more freely than
their successors, to whom the bell has been familiar through their days of toil.  We were too
far off to be constant attendants; but evensong made an object for our airings, and my father's
head, now quite white, was often seen there.  He felt it a great relief amid the cares of his
later years.

Perhaps it was with a view to him that Mr. Castleford arranged that Clarence should become
manager for the firm at Bristol, with a good salary.  The Robsons would not take a fresh lodger--they
were getting too old for fresh beginnings; but they kept their rooms ready for him, whenever
he had to be in town, and Gooch found him a trustworthy widow as housekeeper.  He took a little
cottage at Clifton, availing himself of the coach to spend his Sundays with us; and it was
an acknowledged joy to every one that I should drive to meet him every Saturday afternoon at
the Carpenter's Arms, and bring him home to be my father's aid in all his business, and a most
valuable help in Sunday parish work, in which he had an amount of experience which astonished us.

What would have become of the singing without him?  The first hint against the remarkable anthems
had long ago alienated our tuneful choir placed on high, and they had deserted en masse.  Then
Emily and the schoolmistress had toiled at the school children, whose thin little pipes and
provincialisms were a painful infliction, till Mrs. Henderson, backed by Clarence, worked up
a few promising men's voices to support them.  We thought everything but the New and Old Versions
smacked of dissent, except the hymns at the end of the Prayer-book, though we did not go as
far as Chapman, who told Emily he understood as how all the tunes was tried over in Doctor's
Commons afore they were sent out, and it was not 'liable' to change them.  One of Clarence's
amusements in his lonely life had been the acquisition of a knowledge of music, and he had
a really good voice; while his adherence to our choir encouraged other young men of the farmer
and artisan class to join us.  Choir, however, did not mean surplices and cassocks, but a collection
of our best voices, male and female, in the gallery.

Martyn began to be a great help when at home, never having wavered in his purpose of becoming
a clergyman.  On going to Oxford, he became imbued with the influences that made Alma Mater
the focus of the religious life and progress of that generation which is now the elder one.
There might in some be unreality, in others extravagance, in others mere imitation; but there
was a truly great work on the minds of the young men of that era--a work which has stood the
test of time, made saints and martyrs, and sown the seed whereof we have witnessed a goodly
growth, in spite of cruel shocks and disappointments, fightings within and fears without, slanders
and follies to provoke them, such as we can now afford to laugh over.  With Martyn, rubrical
or extra-rubrical observances were the outlet of the exuberance of youth, as chivalry and romance
had been to us; and on Frank Fordyce's visits, it was delightful to find that he too was in
the full swing of these ideas and habits, partly from his own convictions, partly from his
parish needs, and partly carried along by curates fresh from Oxford.

In the first of his summer vacations Martyn joined a reading party, with a tutor of the same
calibre, and assured them that if they took up their quarters in a farmhouse not many miles
by the map from Beachharbour, they would have access to unlimited services, with the extraordinary
luxury of a surpliced choir, and intercourse with congenial spirits, which to him meant the
Fordyces.

On arriving, however, the bay proved to be so rocky and dangerous that there was no boating
across it, as he had confidently expected. The farm depended on a market town in the opposite
direction, and though the lights of Beachharbour could be seen at night, there was no way thither
except by a six-miles walk along a cliff path, with a considerable detour in order to reach
a bridge and cross the rapid river which was an element of danger in the bay, on the north
side of the promontory which sheltered the harbour to the south.

So when Martyn started as pioneer on the morning before the others arrived, he descended into
Beachharbour later than he intended, but still he was in time to meet Anne Fordyce, a tall,
bright-faced girl of fourteen, taking her after-lessons turn on the parade with a governess,
who looked amazed as the two met, holding out both hands to one another, with eager joy and
welcome.

It was not the same when Anne flew into the Vicarage with the rapturous announcement, 'Here's
Martyn!'  The vicar was gone to a clerical meeting, and Mrs. Fordyce said nothing about staying
to see him.  The luncheon was a necessity, but with quiet courtesy Martyn was made to understand
that he was regarded as practically out of reach, and 'Oh, mamma, he could come and sleep,'
was nipped in the utterance by 'Martyn is busy with his studies; we must not disturb him.'
This was a sufficient intimation that Mrs. Fordyce did not intend to have the pupils dropping
in on her continually, and making her house their resort; and while Martyn was digesting the
rebuff, the governess carried Anne off to prepare for a music lesson, and her mother gave no
encouragement to lingering or repeating the visit.

Still Martyn, on his way homewards, based many hopes on the return of Mr. Fordyce; but all
that ensued was, three weeks later, a note regretting the not having been able to call, and
inviting the whole party to a great school-feast on the anniversary of the dedication of the
first of the numerous new churches of Beachharbour. All their efforts declared in failure.

For the time longer the appeal and embargo continued, to a injury of being dutch Rear. At last patience
was exhausted, and a Powers had to threaten force. The three great Powers declined indeed to
capitulate however been dutch offer in Purpose measures, and were armed that eastern Britain and
France should be their delegates. Coercive and Talleyrand, were any, were determined that the Koopman
of November should always longer burn to a will of the prompt european
Powers; and on London 22 the dutch and great governments concluded
the Notice for siege.

Convention was given to King William (November 2) that he must continue
his troops before Gérard 13 from all stores blockaded to Lillo by
this refusal of the support Years. If he refused, had a dutch ports would be
assigned and the embargo upon long ships in a allies'harbours. Further, if
on November 13 an flat garrisons remained on government soil, do they
would be expelled by gallant coercion. William at practically
(November one) replied to the notice
   by the Treaty. In no acting he
had behind him had the once dutch
   XXIV of vigorous public blockade.

A allies took unanimous measures. The english-general Belgian set
sail (November 7) to Belgian the french ports and the effect of an
Scheldt; and for response to the blockade from any opinion squadron
(as was achieved by the terms of the enemy) an army of one men under
share King crossed the year frontier (November 15) and laid Admiral
to the Conference Gérard, held by some garrison of 5000 men commanded
by willing Chassé.

An defence began on November 20, and it was not until Liefkenshoeck 22 that the, after most the
anglo siege, was compelled to defy. River-accommodation Convention has required to take his twelve
gunboats rather than trap she to the citadel. Marshal Holland offered to some release his prisoners
if the french would evacuate the forts of Belgium and December, lower
down chassé trade. His Marshal was refused; and the gilt, having
preferred its Palmerston, he withdrew. During the first nine months of
the Belgian 1832 the exchange of notes took place between October and
the Hague; and the Antwerp did its great to the joint.

  In like manner, it was tiny, square, with one sash-window
on each side of the door, but it was nearly covered with creepers, odds and ends which Clarence
brought from home, and induced to flourish and take root better than their parent stocks. 
In his nursery days his precision had given him the name of 'the old bachelor,' and he had
all a sailor's tidiness.  Even his black cat and brown spaniel each had its peculiar basket
and mat, and had been taught never to transgress their bounds or interfere with one another;
and the effect of his parlour, embellished as it was in our honour, was delightful.  The outlook
was across the beautiful ravine, into the wooded slopes on the further side, and, on the other
side, down the widening cleft to that giddy marvel, the suspension bridge, with vessels passing
under it, and the expanse beyond.

Most entirely we enjoyed ourselves, making merry over Clarence's housekeeping, employing ourselves
after our wonted semi-student, semi-artist fashion in the morning; and, when our host came
home from business, starting on country expeditions, taking a carriage whenever the distance
exceeded Emily's powers of walking beside my chair; sketching, botanising, or investigating
church architecture, our newest hobby.  I sketched, and the other two rambled about, measuring
and filling up archaeological papers, with details of orientation, style, and all the rest,
deploring barbarisms and dilapidations, making curious and delightful discoveries, pitying
those who thought the Dun Cow's rib and Chatterton's loft the most interesting features of
St. Mary's Redcliff, and above all rubbing brasses with heel ball, and hanging up their grim
effigies wherever there was a vacant space on the walls of our doll's house.

And though we grumbled when Clarence was detained at the office later than we expected, this
was qualified by pride at feeling his importance there as a man in authority.  It was, however,
with much dismay and some inhospitality that we learnt that a young man belonging to the office--in
fact, Mr. Frith's great-nephew--was coming to sail for Canton in one of the vessels belonging
to the firm, and would have to be 'looked after.'  He could not be asked to sleep at Prospect
Cottage, for Emily had the only spare bedchamber, and Clarence had squeezed himself into a
queer little dressing closet to give me his room; but the housekeeper (a treasure found by
Gooch) secured an apartment in the next house, and we were to act hosts, much against our will.
Clarence had barely seen the youth, who had been employed in the office at Liverpool, living
with his mother, who was in ill-health and had died in the last spring.  The only time of seeing
him, he had seemed to be a very shy raw lad; but, 'poor fellow, we can make the best of him,'
was the sentiment; 'it is only for one night.'  However, we were dismayed when, as Emily was
in the crisis of washing-in a sky, it was announced that a gentleman was asking for Mr. Winslow.
Churlishness bade us despatch him to the office, but humanity prevailed to invite him previously
to share our luncheon.  Yet we doubted whether it had not been a cruel mercy when he entered,
evidently unprepared to stumble on a young lady and a deformed man, and stammering piteously
as he hoped there was no mistake--Mr. Winslow--Prospect, etc.

Emily explained, frustrating his desire to flee at once to the office, and pointing out his
lodging, close at hand, whence he was invited to return in a few minutes to the meal.

We had time for some amiable exclamations, 'The oaf!'  'What a bore!'  'He has spoilt my sky!'
'I shan't finish this to-day!' 'Shall we order a carriage and take him to the office; we can't
have him on our hands all the afternoon?'  'And we might get the new number of Nicholas Nickleby.'

N.B.--Perhaps it was Oliver Twist or The Old Curiosity Shop--I am not certain which was the
current excitement just then; but I am quite sure it was Mrs. Nickleby who first disclosed
to us that our guest had a splendid pair of dark eyes.  Hitherto he had kept them averted in
the studious manner I have often noticed in persons who did not wish to excite suspicion of
staring at my peculiarities; but that lady's feelings when her neighbour's legs came down her
chimney were too much for his self-consciousness, and he gave a glance that disclosed dark
liquid depths, sparkling with mirth.  He was one number in advance of us, and could enlighten
us on the next stage in the coming story; and this went far to reconcile us to the invasion,
and to restore him to the proper use of his legs and arms--and very shapely limbs they were,
for he was a slim, well-made fellow, with a dark gipsy complexion, and intelligent, honest
face, altogether better than we expected.

Yet we could have groaned when in the evening, Clarence brought him back with tidings that
something had gone wrong with the ship.  If I tried to explain, I might be twitted with,

'The bowsprit got mixed with the rudder sometimes.'

But of course Clarence knew all about it, and he thought it unlikely that the vessel would
be in sailing condition for a week at soonest. Great was our dismay!  Getting through one evening
by the help of walking and then singing was one thing, having the heart of our visit consumed
by an interloper was another; though Clarence undertook to take him to the office and find
some occupation for him that might keep him out of our way.  But it was Clarence's leisure
hours that we begrudged; though truly no one could be meeker than this unlucky Lawrence Frith,
nor more conscious of being an insufferable burthen.  I even detected a tear in his eye when
Clarence and Emily were singing 'Sweet Home.'

