"July 21, 1 a.m.--Lanes opened to about 40 ft. wide.  Ship in open pool about 100 ft. wide.
Heavy pressure in vicinity of ship. Called all hands and cut wires at the forecastle head.
[These wires had remained frozen in the ice after the ship broke away from her moorings, and
they had served a useful purpose at some times by checking ice- movements close to the ship.]
2 a.m.--Ship swung athwart lane as the ice opened, and the floes on the port side pressed her
stern round. 11.30 a.m.--Pack of killer whales came up in the lane around the ship. Some broke
soft ice (about one inch thick) and pushed their heads through, rising to five or six feet
perpendicularly out of the water. They were apparently having a look round.  It is strange
to see killers in this immense field of ice; open water must be near, I think. 5.15 p.m.--New
ice of lanes cracked and opened.  Floes on port side pushed stern on to ice (of floe); floes
then closed in and nipped the ship fore and aft.  The rudder was bent over to starboard and
smashed.  The solid oak and iron went like matchwood. 8 p.m.--Moderate south-south- west gale
with drift. Much straining of timbers with pressure. 10 p.m.-- Extra hard nip fore and aft;
ship visibly hogged. Heavy pressure.

"July 22.--Ship in bad position in newly frozen lane, with bow and stern jammed against heavy
floes; heavy strain with much creaking and groaning.  8 a.m.--Called all hands to stations
for sledges, and made final preparations for abandoning ship.  Allotted special duties to several
hands to facilitate quickness in getting clear should ship be crushed.  Am afraid the ship's
back will be broken if the pressure continues, but cannot relieve her.  2 p.m.--Ship lying
easier. Poured Sulphuric acid on the ice astern in hopes of rotting crack and relieving pressure
on stern-post, but unsuccessfully.  Very heavy pressure on and around ship (taking strain fore
and aft and on starboard quarter).  Ship, jumping and straining and listing badly. 10 p.m.--Ship
has crushed her way into new ice on starboard side and slewed aslant lane with stern-post clear
of land-ice. 12 p.m.--Ship is in safer position; lanes opening in every direction.

"July 23.--Caught glimpse of Coulman Island through haze. Position of ship south 14° east (true),
eighty miles off Coulman Island. Pressure continued intermittently throughout the day and night,
with occasional very heavy squeezes to the ship which made timbers crack and groan. The ship's
stern is now in a more or less soft bed, formed of recently frozen ice of about one foot in
thickness.  I thank God that we have been spared through this fearful nightmare.  I shall never
forget the concertina motions of the ship during yesterday's and Wednesday's fore and aft nips.

"July 24.--Compared with previous days this is a quiet one. The lanes have been opening and
closing, and occasionally the ship gets a nasty squeeze against the solid floe on our starboard
quarter.  The more lanes that open the better, as they form 'springs'  (when covered with thin
ice, which makes to a thickness of three or four inches in a few hours) between the solid and
heavier floes and fields.  Surely we have been guided by the hands of Providence to have come
in heavy grinding pack for over two hundred miles (geographical), skirting the ice-bound western
shore, around and to the north of Franklin Island, and now into what appears a clear path to
the open sea!  In view of our precarious position and the lives of men in jeopardy, I sent
this evening an aerogram to H. M. King George asking for a relief ship. I hope the wireless
gets through.  I have sent this message after much consideration, and know that in the event
of our non-arrival in New Zealand on the specified date (November 1) a relief ship will be
sent to aid the Southern Party.

"July 25.--Very heavy pressure about the ship.  During the early hours a large field on the
port quarter came charging up, and on meeting our floe tossed up a ridge from ten to fifteen
feet high. The blocks of ice as they broke off crumbled and piled over each other to the accompaniment
of a thunderous roar. Throughout the day the pressure continued, the floes alternately opening
and closing, and the ship creaking and groaning during the nips between floes.

"August 4.--For nine days we have had southerly winds, and the last four we have experienced
howling blizzards.  I am sick of the sound of the infernal wind.  Din!  Din!  Din!  and darkness.
We should have seen the sun to-day, but a bank of cumulus effectually hid him, although the
daylight is a never-ending joy.

"August 6.--The wind moderated towards 6 a.m., and about breakfast time, with a clear atmosphere,
the land from near Cape Cotter to Cape Adare was visible.  What a day of delights!  After four
days of thick weather we find ourselves in sight of Cape Adare in a position about forty-five
miles east of Possession Isles; in this time we have been set one hundred miles.  Good going.
Mount Sabine, the first land seen by us when coming south, lies away to the westward, forming
the highest peak (10,000 ft.) of a majestic range of mountains covered in eternal snow.  Due
west we can see the Possession Islands, lying under the stupendous bluff of Cape Downshire,
which shows large patches of black rock. The land slopes down to the north-west of Cape Downshire,
and rises again into the high peninsula about Cape Adore. We felt excited this morning in anticipation
of seeing the sun, which rose about nine- thirty (local time).  It was a glorious, joyful sight.
We drank to something, and with very light hearts gave cheers for the sun.

"August 9.--Donolly got to work on the rudder again.  It is a long job cutting through the
iron sheathing-plates of the rudder, and not too safe at present, as the ice is treacherous.
Hooke says that the conditions are normal now.  I wish for his sake that he could get through.
He is a good sportsman and keeps on trying, although, I am convinced, he has little hope with
this inadequate aerial.

"August 10.--The ship's position is lat. 70° 40´ S., forty miles north 29° east of Cape Adare.
The distance drifted from August 2 to 6 was one hundred miles, and from the 6th to the 10th
eighty-eight miles.

"August 12.--By observation and bearings of land we are forty-five miles north-east of Cape
Adare, in lat. 70° 42´ S. This position is a little to the eastward of the position on the
10th.  The bearings as laid off on a small scale chart of gnomonic projection are very inaccurate,
and here we are handicapped, as our chronometers have lost all regularity.  Donolly and Grade
are having quite a job with the iron platings on the rudder, but should finish the cutting
to-morrow.  A jury-rudder is nearly completed. This afternoon we mixed some concrete for the
lower part, and had to use boiling water, as the water froze in the mixing.  The carpenter
has made a good job of the rudder, although he has had to construct it on the quarterdeck in
low temperatures and exposed to biting blasts.

"August 16.--We are 'backing and filling' about forty miles north-east of Cape Adare.  This
is where we expected to have made much mileage. However, we cannot grumble and must be patient.
There was much mirage to the northward, and from the crow's-nest a distinct appearance of open
water could be seen stretching from north-north-west to north-east.

"August 17.--A glorious day!  Land is distinctly visible, and to the northward the black fringe
of water-sky over the horizon hangs continuously.  Hooke heard Macquarie Island 'speaking'
Hobart.  The message heard was the finish of the weather reports. We have hopes now of news
in the near future.

"August 23.--Saw the land in the vicinity of Cape North.  To the south- south-west the white
cliffs and peaks of the inland ranges were very distinct, and away in the distance to the south-west
could be seen a low stretch of undulating land.  At times Mount Sabine was visible through
the gloom.  The latitude, is 69° 44½´ S.  We are fifty-eight miles north, forty miles east
of Cape North.

"August 24.--We lifted the rudder out of the ice and placed it clear of the stern, athwart
the fore-and-aft line of the ship. We had quite a job with it (weight, four and a half tons),
using treble- and double- sheaved-blocks purchase, but with the endless-chain tackle from the
engine-room, and plenty of 'beef' and leverage, we dragged it clear. All the pintles are gone
at the fore part of the rudder; it is a clean break and bears witness to the terrific force
exerted on the ship during the nip.  I am glad to see the rudder upon the ice and clear of
the propeller.  The blade itself (which is solid oak and sheathed on two sides and after part
half-way down, with three-quarter-inch iron plating) is undamaged, save for the broken pintles;
the twisted portion is in the rudder trunk.

"August 25, 11 p.m.--Hooke has just been in with the good tidings that he has heard Macquarie
and the Bluff (New Zealand) sending their weather reports and exchanging signals.  Can this
mean that they have heard our recent signals and are trying to get us now? Our motor has been
out of order.

"August 26.--The carpenter has finished the jury-rudder and is now at work on the lower end
of the rudder truck, where the rudder burst into the stern timbers.  We are lucky in having
this opportunity to repair these minor damages, which might prove serious in a seaway.

"August 31, 6.30 a.m.--Very loud pressure-noises to the south-east. I went aloft after breakfast
and had the pleasure of seeing many open lanes in all directions.  The lanes of yesterday are
frozen over, showing what little chance there is of a general and continued break-up of the
ice until the temperature rises. Land was visible, but far too distant for even approximate
bearings. The berg still hangs to the north-west of the ship.  We seem to have pivoted outwards
from the land.  We cannot get out of this too quickly, and although every one has plenty of
work, and is cheerful, the uselessness of the ship in her present position palls.

"September 5.--The mizzen wireless mast came down in a raging blizzard to-day.  In the forenoon
I managed to crawl to windward on the top of the bridge-house, and under the lee of the chart-house
watched the mast bending over with the wind and swaying like the branch of a tree, but after
the aerial had stood throughout the winter I hardly thought the mast would carry away.  Luckily,
as it is dangerous to life to be on deck in this weather (food is brought from the galley in
relays through blinding drift and over big heaps of snow), no one was about when the mast carried
away.

"September 8.--This is dull, miserable weather.  Blow, snow, and calm for an hour or two. 
Sometimes it blows in this neighbourhood without snow and sometimes with--this seems to be
the only difference.  I have two patients now, Larkman and Mugridge. Larkman was frost-bitten
on the great and second toes of the left foot some time ago, and has so far taken little notice
of them. Now they are causing him some alarm as gangrene has set in. Mugridge is suffering
from an intermittent rash, with red, inflamed skin and large, short-lived blisters.  I don't
know what the deuce it is, but the nearest description to it in a 'Materia Medica,' etc., is
pemphigus, so pemphigus it is, and he has been 'tonic- ed' and massaged.

"September 9.--This is the first day for a long time that we have registered a minimum temperature
above zero for the twenty-four hours. It is pleasant to think that from noon to noon throughout
the night the temperature never fell below +4° (28° frost), and with the increase of daylight
it makes one feel that summer really is approaching.

"September 13.--All around the northern horizon there is the appearance of an open water-sky,
but around the ship the prospect is dreary.  The sun rose at 6.20 a.m. and set at 5.25 p.m.
Ship's time eleven hours five minutes of sunlight and seventeen hours light. Three hours twilight
morning and evening.  The carpenter is dismantling the taffrail (to facilitate the landing
and, if necessary, the boarding of the jury-rudder) and will construct a temporary, removable rail.

"September 16.--There has been much mirage all around the horizon, and to the eastward through
south to south-west heavy frost-smoke has been rising.  Over the northern horizon a low bank
of white fog hangs as though over the sea.  I do not like these continued low temperatures.
I am beginning to have doubts as to our release until the sun starts to rot the ice.

"September 17.--This is the anniversary of our departure from London. There are only four of
the original eleven on board--Larkman, Ninnis, Mauger, and I.  Much has happened since Friday,
September 18, 1914, and I can recall the scene as we passed down the Thames with submarines
and cruisers, in commission and bent on business, crossing our course.  I can also remember
the regret at leaving it all and the consequent 'fedupness.'

"September 21.--The sun is making rapid progress south, and we have had to-day over seventeen
hours' light and twelve hours' sunlight. Oh for a release!  The monotony and worry of our helpless
position is deadly.  I suppose Shackleton and his party will have started depot- laying now
and will be full of hopes for the future.  I wonder whether the 'Endurance' wintered in the
ice or went north.  I cannot help thinking that if she wintered in the Weddell Sea she will
be worse off than the 'Aurora'.  What a lot we have to look for in the next six months--news
of Shackleton and the 'Endurance', the party at Cape Evans, and the war.

"September 22.--Lat. 69° 12´ S.; long. 165° 00´ E. Sturge Island (Balleny Group) is bearing
north (true) ninety miles distant.  Light north-west airs with clear, fine weather.  Sighted
Sturge Island in the morning, bearing due north of us and appearing like a faint low shadow
on the horizon.  It is good to get a good landmark for fixing positions again, and it is good
to see that we are making northerly progress, however small.  Since breaking away from Cape
Evans we have drifted roughly seven hundred and five miles around islands and past formidable
obstacles, a wonderful drift! It is good to think that it has not been in vain, and that the
knowledge of the set and drill of the pack will be a valuable addition to the sum of human
knowledge. The distance from Cape Evans to our present position is seven hundred and five miles
(geographical).

"September 27.--The temperature in my room last night was round about zero, rather chilly,
but warm enough under the blankets. Hooke has dismantled his wireless gear.  He feels rather
sick about not getting communication, although he does not show it.

"September 30.--Ninnis has been busy now for the week on the construction of a new tractor.
He is building the body and will assemble the motor in the fore 'tween decks, where it can
be lashed securely when we are released from the ice.  I can see leads of open water from the
masthead, but we are still held firmly.  How long?

"October 7.--As time wears on the possibility of getting back to the Barrier to land a party
deserves consideration; if we do not get clear until late in the season we will have to turn
south first, although we have no anchors and little moorings, no rudder and a short supply
of coal.  To leave a party on the Barrier would make us very short-handed; still, it can be
done, and anything is preferable to the delay in assisting the people at Cape Evans.  At 5
a.m. a beautiful parhelion formed around the sun.  The sight so impressed the bos'n that he
roused me out to see it."

During the month of October the 'Aurora' drifted uneventfully. Stenhouse mentions that there
was often an appearance of open water on the northern and eastern horizon.  But anxious eyes
were strained in vain for indications that the day of the ship's release was near at hand.
Hooke had the wireless plant running again and was trying daily to get into touch with Macquarie
Island, now about eight hundred and fifty miles distant.  The request for a relief ship was
to be renewed if communication could be established, for by this time, if all had gone well
with the 'Endurance', the overland party from the Weddell Sea would have been starting.  There
was considerable movement of the ice towards the end of the month, lanes opening and closing,
but the floe, some acres in area, into which the 'Aurora' was frozen, remained firm until the
early days of November. The cracks appeared close to the ship, due apparently to heavy drift
causing the floe to sink. The temperatures were higher now, under the influence of the sun,
and the ice was softer.  Thawing was causing discomfort in the quarters aboard. The position
on November 12 was reckoned to be lat. 66° 49´ S., long. 155° 17´ 45´´ E.  Stenhouse made a
sounding on November 17, in lat. 66° 40´ S., long. 154° 45´ E., and found bottom at 194 fathoms.
The bottom sample was mud and a few small stones.  The sounding-line showed a fairly strong
undercurrent to the north-west.  "We panned out some of the mud," says Stenhouse, "and in the
remaining grit found several specks of gold."  Two days later the trend of the current was
south- easterly. There was a pronounced thaw on the 22nd.  The cabins were in a dripping state,
and recently fallen snow was running off the ship in little streams.  All hands were delighted,
for the present discomfort offered promise of an early break-up of the pack.

"November 23.--At 3 a.m. Young Island, Balleny Group, was seen bearing north 54° east (true).
The island, which showed up clearly on the horizon, under a heavy stratus-covered sky, appeared
to be very far distant.  By latitude at noon we are in 66° 26´ S.  As this is the charted latitude
of Peak Foreman, Young Island, the bearing does not agree.  Land was seen at 8 a.m. bearing
south 60° west (true).  This, which would appear to be Cape Hudson, loomed up through the mists
in the form of a high, bold headland, with low undulating land stretching away to the south-south-east
and to the westward of it.  The appearance of this headland has been foretold for the last
two days, by masses of black fog, but it seems strange that land so high should not have been
seen before, as there is little change in the atmospheric conditions.

"November 24.--Overcast and hazy during forenoon.  Cloudy, clear, and fine in afternoon and
evening.  Not a vestige of land can be seen, so Cape Hudson is really  'Cape Flyaway.'  This
is most weird. All hands saw the headland to the south-west, and some of us sketched it.  Now
(afternoon), although the sky is beautifully clear to the south-west, nothing can be seen.
We cannot have drifted far from yesterday's position.  No wonder Wilkes reported land.  9 p.m.--A
low fringe of land appears on the horizon bearing south-west, but in no way resembles our Cape
of yesterday.  This afternoon we took a cast of the lead through the crack 200 yds. west of
the ship, but found no bottom at 700 fathoms."

An interesting incident on November 26 was the discovery of an emperor penguin rookery.  Ninnis
and Kavenagh took a long walk to the north- west, and found the deserted rookery.  The depressions
in the ice, made by the birds, were about eighteen inches long and contained a greyish residue.
The rookery was in a hollow surrounded by pressure ridges six feet high.  Apparently about
twenty birds had been there.  No pieces of egg-shell were seen, but the petrels and skuas had
been there in force and probably would have taken all scraps of this kind.  The floes were
becoming soft and "rotten," and walking was increasingly difficult. Deep pools of slush and
water covered with thin snow made traps for the men.  Stenhouse thought that a stiff blizzard
would break up the pack. His anxiety was increasing with the advance of the season, and his
log is a record of deep yearning to be free and active again.  But the grip of the pack was
inexorable.  The hands had plenty of work on the 'Aurora', which was being made shipshape after
the buffeting of the winter storms. Seals and penguins were seen frequently, and the supply
of fresh meat was maintained.  The jury-rudder was ready to be shipped when the ship was released,
but in the meantime it was not being exposed to the attacks of the ice.

"No appreciable change in our surroundings," was the note for December 17.  "Every day past
now reduces our chance of getting out in time to go north for rudder, anchors, and coal.  If
we break out before January 15 we might get north to New Zealand and down to Cape Evans again
in time to pick up the parties.  After that date we can only attempt to go south in our crippled
state, and short of fuel. With only nine days' coal on board we would have little chance of
working through any Ross Sea pack, or of getting south at all if we encountered many blizzards.
Still there is a sporting chance and luck may be with us.... Shackleton may be past the Pole
now.  I wish our wireless calls had got through."

Christmas Day, with its special dinner and mild festivities, came and passed, and still the
ice remained firm.  The men were finding some interest in watching the moulting of emperor
penguins, who were stationed at various points in the neighbourhood of the ship.  They had
taken station to leeward of hummocks, and appeared to move only when the wind changed or the
snow around them had become foul.  They covered but a few yards on these journeys, and even
then stumbled in their weakness.  One emperor was brought on board alive, and the crew were
greatly amused to see the bird balancing himself on heels and tail, with upturned toes, the
position adopted when the egg is resting on the feet during the incubation period.  The threat
of a stiff "blow" aroused hopes of release several times, but the blizzard--probably the first
Antarctic blizzard that was ever longed for--did not arrive. New Year's Day found Stenhouse
and other men just recovering from an attack of snow-blindness, contracted by making an excursion
across the floes without snow-goggles.

At the end of the first week in January the ship was in lat. 65° 45´ S.  The pack was well
broken a mile from the ship, and the ice was rolling fast.  Under the bows and stern the pools
were growing and stretching away in long lanes to the west.  A seal came up to blow under the
stern on the 6th, proving that there was an opening in the sunken ice there.  Stenhouse was
economizing in food.  No breakfast was served on the ship, and seal or penguin meat was used
for at least one of the two meals later in the day. All hands were short of clothing, but Stenhouse
was keeping intact the sledging gear intended for the use of the shore party. Strong, variable
winds on the 9th raised hopes again, and on the morning of the 10th the ice appeared to be
well broken from half a mile to a mile distant from the ship in all directions.  "It seems
extraordinary that the ship should be held in an almost unbroken floe of about a mile square,
the more so as this patch was completely screwed and broken during the smash in July, and contains
many faults.  In almost any direction at a distance of half a mile from the ship there are
pressure ridges of eight-inch ice piled twenty feet high.  It was provident that although so
near these ridges were escaped."

The middle of January was passed and the 'Aurora' lay still in the ice.  The period of continuous
day was drawing towards its close, and there was an appreciable twilight at midnight.  A dark
water-sky could be seen on the northern horizon.  The latitude on January 24 was 65° 39½´ S.
Towards the end of the month Stenhouse ordered a thorough overhaul of the stores and general
preparations for a move. The supply of flour and butter was ample.  Other stores were running
low, and the crew lost no opportunity of capturing seals and penguins.  Adelies were travelling
to the east-south-east in considerable numbers, but they could not be taken unless they approached
the ship closely, owing to the soft condition of the ice. The wireless plant, which had been
idle during the months of daylight, had been rigged again, and Hooke resumed his calls to Macquarie
Island on February 2.  He listened in vain for any indication that he had been heard.  The
pack was showing much movement, but the large floe containing the ship remained firm.

The break-up of the floe came on February 12.  Strong north-east to south-east winds put the
ice in motion and brought a perceptible swell. The ship was making some water, a fore-taste
of a trouble to come, and all hands spent the day at the pumps, reducing the water from three
feet eight and a half inches in the well to twelve inches, in spite of frozen pipes and other
difficulties.  Work had just finished for the night when the ice broke astern and quickly split
in all directions under the influence of the swell.  The men managed to save some seal meat
which had been cached in a drift near the gangway.  They lost the flagstaff, which had been
rigged as a wireless mast out on the floe, but drew in the aerial.  The ship was floating now
amid fragments of floe, and bumping considerably in the swell.  A fresh southerly wind blew
during the night, and the ship started to forge ahead gradually without sail.  At 8.30 a.m.
on the 13th Stenhouse set the foresail and foretopmast staysail, and the 'Aurora' moved northward
slowly, being brought up occasionally by large floes.  Navigation under such conditions, without
steam and without a rudder, was exceedingly difficult, but Stenhouse wished if possible to
save his small remaining stock of coal until he cleared the pack, so that a quick run might
be made to McMurdo Sound.  The jury-rudder could not be rigged in the pack.  The ship was making
about three and a half feet of water in the twenty-four hours, a quantity easily kept in check
by the pumps.

During the 14th the 'Aurora' worked very slowly northward through heavy pack.  Occasionally
the yards were backed or an ice-anchor put into a floe to help her out of difficult places,
but much of the time she steered herself.  The jury-rudder boom was topped into position in
the afternoon, but the rudder was not to be shipped until open pack or open water was reached.
The ship was held up all day on the 15th in lat. 64° 38´ S.  Heavy floes barred progress in
every direction. Attempts were made to work the ship by trimming sails and warping with ice-anchors,
but she could not be manoeuvred smartly enough to take advantage of leads that opened and closed.
This state of affairs continued throughout the 16th.  That night a heavy swell was rolling
under the ice and the ship had a rough time.  One pointed floe ten or twelve feet thick was
steadily battering, with a three-feet send, against the starboard side, and fenders only partially
deadened the shock.  "It is no use butting against this pack with steam-power," wrote Stenhouse.
"We would use all our meagre supply of coal in reaching the limit of the ice in sight, and
then we would be in a hole, with neither ballast nor fuel....  But if this stagnation lasts
another week we will have to raise steam and consume our coal in an endeavour to get into navigable
waters. I am afraid our chances of getting south are very small now."

The pack remained close, and on the 21st a heavy swell made the situation dangerous.  The ship
bumped heavily that night and fenders were of little avail.  With each "send" of the swell
the ship would bang her bows on the floe ahead, then bounce back and smash into another floe
across her stern-post.  This floe, about six feet thick and 100 ft. across, was eventually
split and smashed by the impacts. The pack was jammed close on the 23rd, when the noon latitude
was 64° 36½´ S.  The next change was for the worse.  The pack loosened on the night of the
25th, and a heavy north-west swell caused the ship to bump heavily.  This state of affairs
recurred at intervals in succeeding days.  "The battering and ramming of the floes increased
in the early hours [of February 29] until it seemed as if some sharp floe or jagged underfoot
must go through the ship's hull.  At 6 a.m. we converted a large coir-spring into a fender,
and slipped it under the port quarter, where a pressured floe with twenty to thirty feet underfoot
was threatening try knock the propeller and stern-post off altogether. At 9 a.m., after pumping
ship, the engineer reported a leak in the way of the propeller-shaft aft near the stern-post
on the port side. The carpenter cut part of the lining and filled the space between the timbers
with Stockholm tar, cement, and oakum.  He could not get at the actual leak, but his makeshift
made a little difference. I am anxious about the propeller.  This pack is a dangerous place
for a ship now; it seems miraculous that the old Barky still floats."

The ice opened out a little on March 1.  It was imperative to get the ship out of her dangerous
situation quickly; as winter was approaching, and Stenhouse therefore ordered steam to be raised.
Next morning he had the spanker gaff rigged over the stern for use as a temporary rudder while
in the heavy pack.  Steam had been raised to working pressure at 5.15 p.m. on the 2nd, and
the 'Aurora' began to work ahead to the westward.  Progress was very slow owing to heavy floes
and deep underfoots, which necessitated frequent stoppages of the engines.  Open water was
in sight to the north and north-west the next morning, after a restless night spent among the
rocking floes. But progress was very slow.  The 'Aurora' went to leeward under the influence
of a west-south- west breeze, and steering by means of the yards and a warp-anchor was a ticklish
business.  The ship came to a full stop among heavy floes before noon on the 3rd, and three
hours later, after vain attempts to warp ahead by means of ice-anchors, Stenhouse had the fires
partially drawn (to save coal) and banked.

No advance was made on March 4 and 5.  A moderate gale from the east- north-east closed the
ice and set it in motion, and the 'Aurora', with banked fires, rolled and bumped, heavily.
Seventeen bergs were in sight, and one of them was working southwards into the pack and threatening
to approach the ship.  During the night the engines were turned repeatedly by the action of
ice on the propeller blades.  "All theories about the swell being non-existent in the pack
are false," wrote the anxious master. "Here we are with a suggestion only of open water-sky,
and the ship rolling her scuppers under and sitting down bodily on the floes."  The ice opened
when the wind moderated, and on the afternoon of the 6th the 'Aurora' moved northward again.
"Without a rudder (no jury-rudder can yet be used amongst these swirling, rolling floes) the
ship requires a lot of attention.  Her head must be pointed between floes by means of ice-anchors
and warps, or by mooring to a floe and steaming round it.  We kept a fairly good course between
two bergs to our northward and made about five miles northing till, darkness coming on, the
men could no longer venture on the floes with safety to fix the anchors."

The next three days were full of anxiety.  The 'Aurora' was held by the ice, and subjected
to severe buffeting, while two bergs approached from the north.  On the morning of the 10th
the nearest berg was within three cables of the ship.  But the pack had opened and by 9.30
a.m. the ship was out of the danger zone and headed north-north-east.  The pack continued to
open during the afternoon, and the 'Aurora' passed through wide stretches of small loose floes
and brash. Progress was good until darkness made a stop necessary.  The next morning the pack
was denser. Stenhouse shipped a preventer jury-rudder (the weighted spanker gaff), but could
not get steerage way. Broad leads were sighted to the north- west in the afternoon, and the
ship got within a quarter of a mile of the nearest lead before being held up by heavy pack.
She again bumped severely during the night, and the watch stood by with fenders to ease the
more dangerous blows.

Early next morning Stenhouse lowered a jury-rudder, with steering pennants to drag through
the water, and moved north to north-west through heavy pack.  He made sixteen miles that day
on an erratic course, and then spent an anxious night with the ship setting back into the pack
and being pounded heavily.  Attempts to work forward to an open lead on the morning of the
13th were unsuccessful.  Early in the afternoon a little progress was made, with all hands
standing by to fend off high ice, and at 4.50 p.m. the 'Aurora' cleared the main pack. An hour
was spent shipping the jury-rudder under the counter, and then the ship moved slowly northward.
There was pack still ahead, and the bergs and growlers were a constant menace in the hours
of darkness. Some anxious work remained to be done, since bergs and scattered ice extended
in all directions, but at 2 p.m. on March 14 the 'Aurora' cleared the last belt of pack in
lat. 62° 27.5´ S., long. 157° 32´ E. "We 'spliced the main brace,'" says Stenhouse, "and blew
three blasts of farewell to the pack with the whistle."

The 'Aurora' was not at the end of her troubles, but the voyage up to New Zealand need not
be described in detail.  Any attempt to reach McMurdo Sound was now out of the question.  Stenhouse
had a battered, rudderless ship, with only a few tons of coal left in the bunkers, and he struggled
northward in heavy weather against persistent adverse winds and head seas.  The jury-rudder
needed constant nursing, and the shortage of coal made it impossible to get the best service
from the engines.  There were times when the ship could make no progress and fell about helplessly
in a confused swell or lay hove to amid mountainous seas.  She was short-handed, and one or
two of the men were creating additional difficulties.  But Stenhouse displayed throughout fine
seamanship and dogged perseverance.  He accomplished successfully one of the most difficult
voyages on record, in an ocean area notoriously stormy and treacherous.  On March 23 he established
wireless communication with Bluff Station, New Zealand, and the next day was in touch with
Wellington and Hobart.  The naval officer in New Zealand waters offered assistance, and eventually
it was arranged that the Otago Harbour Board's tug Plucky should meet the 'Aurora' outside
Port Chalmers.  There were still bad days to be endured.  The jury- rudder partially carried
away and had to be unshipped in a heavy sea. Stenhouse carried on, and in the early morning
of April 2 the 'Aurora' picked up the tug and was taken in tow. She reached Port Chalmers the
following morning, and was welcomed with the warm hospitality that New Zealand has always shown
towards Antarctic explorers.

CHAPTER XVII

THE LAST RELIEF

When I reached New Zealand at the beginning of December 1916, I found that the arrangements
for the relief were complete.  The New Zealand Government had taken the task in hand earlier
in the year, before I had got into touch with the outside world.  The British and Australian
Governments were giving financial assistance.  The 'Aurora' had been repaired and refitted
at Port Chalmers during the year at considerable cost, and had been provisioned and coaled
for the voyage to McMurdo Sound.  My old friend Captain John K. Davis, who was a member of
my first Antarctic Expedition in 1907-1909, and who subsequently commanded Dr. Mawson's ship
in the Australian Antarctic Expedition, had been placed in command of the 'Aurora' by the Governments,
and he had engaged officers, engineers, and crew. Captain Davis came to Wellington to see me
on my arrival there, and I heard his account of the position. I had interviews also with the
Minister for Marine, the late Dr. Robert McNab, a kindly and sympathetic Scotsman who took
a deep personal interest in the Expedition.  Stenhouse also was in Wellington, and I may say
again here that his account of his voyage and drift in the 'Aurora' filled me with admiration
for his pluck, seamanship, and resourcefulness.

After discussing the situation fully with Dr. McNab, I agreed that the arrangements already
made for the relief expedition should stand. Time was important and there were difficulties
about making any change of plans or control at the last moment.  After Captain Davis had been
at work for some months the Government agreed to hand the 'Aurora' over to me free of liability
on her return to New Zealand. It was decided, therefore, that Captain Davis should take the
ship down to McMurdo Sound, and that I should go with him to take charge of any shore operations
that might be necessary.  I "signed on" at a salary of 1s. a month, and we sailed from Port
Chalmers on December 20, 1916.  A week later we sighted ice again.  The 'Aurora' made a fairly
quick passage through the pack and entered the open water of the Ross Sea on January 7, 1917.

Captain Davis brought the 'Aurora' alongside the ice edge off Cape Royds on the morning of
January 10, and I went ashore with a party to look for some record in the hut erected there
by my Expedition in 1907. I found a letter stating that the Ross Sea party was housed at Cape
Evans, and was on my way back to the ship when six men, with dogs and sledge, were sighted
coming from the direction of Cape Evans.  At 1 p.m. this party arrived on board, and we learned
that of the ten members of the Expedition left behind when the 'Aurora' broke away on May 6,
1915, seven had survived, namely, A. Stevens, E. Joyce, H. E. Wild, J. L. Cope, R. W. Richards,
A. K. Jack, I. O. Gaze.  These seven men were all well, though they showed traces of the ordeal
through which they had passed. They told us of the deaths of Mackintosh, Spencer-Smith, and
Hayward, and of their own anxious wait for relief.

All that remained to be done was to make a final search for the bodies of Mackintosh and Hayward.
There was no possibility of either man being alive.  They had been without equipment when the
blizzard broke the ice they were crossing.  It would have been impossible for them to have
survived more than a few days, and eight months had now elapsed without news of them.  Joyce
had already searched south of Glacier Tongue.  I considered that further search should be made
in two directions, the area north of Glacier Tongue, and the old depot off Butler Point, and
I made a report to Captain Davis to this effect.

