Frank chose literature. He had, while in the engraving business, written a number of fairy
tales, some of which had been published in juvenile magazines; also a few short stories, and
quite an ambitious long story, which was published in a prominent magazine. He was then sufficiently
well known as a writer to obtain without difficulty a place on the staff of Hearth and Home,
a weekly New York paper, owned by Orange Judd, and conducted by Edward Eggleston. Mrs. Mary
Mapes Dodge had charge of the juvenile department, and Frank went on the paper as her assistant.
Not long after Scribner's Monthly was started by Charles Scribner (the elder), in conjunction
with Roswell Smith, and J.G. Holland. Later Mr. Smith and his associates formed The Century
Company; and with this company Mr. Stockton was connected for many years: first on the Century
Magazine, which succeeded Scribner's Monthly, and afterward on St. Nicholas, as assistant to
Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge, and, still later, when he decided to give up editorial work, as a constant
contributor. After a few years he resigned his position in the company with which he had been
so pleasantly associated in order to devote himself exclusively to his own work. By this time
he had written and published enough to feel justified in taking, what seemed to his friends,
a bold, and even rash, step, because so few writers then lived solely by the pen. He was never
very strong physically; he felt himself unable to do his editorial work, and at the same time
write out the fancies and stories with which his mind was full. This venture proved to be the
wisest thing for him; and from that time his life was, in great part, in his books; and he
gave to the world the novels and stories which bear his name.

I have mentioned his fairy stories. Having been a great lover of fairy lore when a child, he
naturally fell into this form of story writing as soon as he was old enough to put a story
together. He invented a goodly number; and among them the Ting-a-Ling stories, which were read
aloud in a boys' literary circle, and meeting their hearty approval, were subsequently published
in The Riverside Magazine, a handsome and popular juvenile of that period; and, much later,
were issued by Hurd & Houghton in a very pretty volume. In regard to these, he wrote long afterward
as follows:

"I was very young when I determined to write some fairy tales because my mind was full of them.
I set to work, and in course of time produced several which were printed. These were constructed
according to my own ideas. I caused the fanciful creatures who inhabited the world of fairy-land
to act, as far as possible for them to do so, as if they were inhabitants of the real world.
I did not dispense with monsters and enchanters, or talking beasts and birds, but I obliged
these creatures to infuse into their extraordinary actions a certain leaven of common sense."

It was about this time, while very young, that he and his brother became ambitious to write
stories, poems, and essays for the world at large. They sent their effusions to various periodicals,
with the result common to ambitious youths: all were returned. They decided at last that editors
did not know a good thing when they saw it, and hit upon a brilliant scheme to prove their
own judgment. One of them selected an extract from Paradise Regained (as being not so well
known as Paradise Lost), and sent it to an editor, with the boy's own name appended, expecting
to have it returned with some of the usual disparaging remarks, which they would greatly enjoy.
But they were disappointed. The editor printed it in his paper, thereby proving that he did
know a good thing if he did not know his Milton. Mr. Stockton was fond of telling this story,
and it may have given rise to a report, extensively circulated, that he tried to gain admittance
to periodicals for many years before he succeeded. This is not true. Some rebuffs he had, of
course--some with things which afterward proved great successes--but not as great a number
as falls to the lot of most beginners.

The Ting-a-Ling tales proved so popular that Mr. Stockton followed them at intervals with long
and short stories for the young which appeared in various juvenile publications, and were afterward
published in book form--Roundabout Rambles. Tales out of School, A Jolly Fellowship, Personally
Conducted, The Story of Viteau, The Floating Prince, and others. Some years later, after he
had begun to write for older readers, he wrote a series of stories for St. Nicholas, ostensibly
for children, but really intended for adults. Children liked the stories, but the deeper meaning
underlying them all was beyond the grasp of a child's mind. These stories Mr. Stockton took
very great pleasure in writing, and always regarded them as some of his best work, and was
gratified when his critics wrote of them in that way. They have become famous, and have been
translated into several languages, notably Old Pipes and the Dryad, The Bee Man of Orne, and
The Griffin and the Minor Canon. This last story was suggested by Chester Cathedral, and he
wrote it in that venerable city. The several tales were finally collected into a volume under
the title: The Bee Man of Orne and Other Stories, which is included in the complete edition
of his novels and stories. During the whole of his literary career Mr. Stockton was an occasional
contributor of short stories and essays to The Youth's Companion.

Mr. Stockton considered his career as an editor of great advantage to him as an author. In
an autobiographical paper he writes: "Long-continued reading of manuscripts submitted for publication
which are almost good enough to use, and yet not quite up to the standard of the magazine,
can not but be of great service to any one who proposes a literary career. Bad work shows us
what we ought to avoid, but most of us know, or think we know, what that is. Fine literary
work we get outside the editorial room. But the great mass of literary material which is almost
good enough to print is seen only by the editorial reader, and its lesson is lost upon him
in a great degree unless he is, or intends to be, a literary worker."

The first house in which we set up our own household goods stood in Nutley, N.J. We had with
us an elderly attaché of the Stockton family as maid-of-all-work; and to relieve her of some
of her duties I went into New York, and procured from an orphans' home a girl whom Mr. Stockton
described as "a middle-sized orphan." She was about fourteen years old, and proved to be a
very peculiar individual, with strong characteristics which so appealed to Mr. Stockton's sense
of humor that he liked to talk with her and draw out her opinions of things in general, and
especially of the books she had read. Her spare time was devoted to reading books, mostly of
the blood-curdling variety; and she read them to herself aloud in the kitchen in a very disjointed
fashion, which was at first amusing, and then irritating. We never knew her real name, nor
did the people at the orphanage. She had three or four very romantic ones she had borrowed
from novels while she was with us, for she was very sentimental.

Mr. Stockton bestowed upon her the name of Pomona, which is now a household word in myriads
of homes. This extraordinary girl, and some household experiences, induced Mr. Stockton to
write a paper for Scribner's Monthly which he called Rudder Grange. This one paper was all
he intended to write, but it attracted immediate attention, was extensively noticed, and much
talked about. The editor of the magazine received so many letters asking for another paper
that Mr. Stockton wrote the second one; and as there was still a clamor for more, he, after
a little time, wrote others of the series. Some time later they were collected in a book. For
those interested in Pomona I will add, that while the girl was an actual personage, with all
the characteristics given to her by her chronicler, the woman Pomona was a development in Mr.
Stockton's mind of the girl as he imagined she would become, for the original passed out of
our lives while still a girl.

Rudder Grange was Mr. Stockton's first book for adult readers, and a good deal of comment has
been made upon the fact that he had reached middle life when it was published. His biographers
and critics assume that he was utterly unknown at that time, and that he suddenly jumped into
favor, and they naturally draw the inference that he had until then vainly attempted to get
before the public. This is all a misapprehension of the facts. It will be seen from what I
have previously stated, that at this time he was already well known as a juvenile writer, and
not only had no difficulty in getting his articles printed, but editors and publishers were
asking him for stories. He had made but few slight attempts to obtain a larger audience. That
he confined himself for so long a time to juvenile literature can be easily accounted for.
For one thing, it grew out of his regular work of constantly catering for the young, and thinking
of them. Then, again, editorial work makes urgent demands upon time and strength, and until
freed from it he had not the leisure or inclination to fashion stories for more exacting and
critical readers. Perhaps, too, he was slow in recognizing his possibilities. Certain it is
that the public were not slow to recognize him. He did, however, experience difficulties in
getting the collected papers of Rudder Grange published in book form. I will quote his own
account, which is interesting as showing how slow he was to appreciate the fact that the public
would gladly accept the writings of a humorist:

"The discovery that humorous compositions could be used in journals other than those termed
comic marked a new era in my work. Periodicals especially devoted to wit and humor were very
scarce in those days, and as this sort of writing came naturally to me, it was difficult, until
the advent of Puck, to find a medium of publication for writings of this nature. I contributed
a good deal to this paper, but it was only partly satisfactory, for articles which make up
a comic paper must be terse and short, and I wanted to write humorous tales which should be
as long as ordinary magazine stories. I had good reason for my opinion of the gravity of the
situation, for the editor of a prominent magazine declined a humorous story (afterward very
popular) which I had sent him, on the ground that the traditions of magazines forbade the publication
of stories strictly humorous. Therefore, when I found an editor at last who actually wished
me to write humorous stories, I was truly rejoiced. My first venture in this line was Rudder
Grange. And, after all, I had difficulty in getting the series published in book form. Two
publishers would have nothing to do with them, assuring me that although the papers were well
enough for a magazine, a thing of ephemeral nature, the book-reading public would not care
for them. The third publisher to whom I applied issued the work, and found the venture satisfactory."

The book-reading public cared so much for this book that it would not remain satisfied with
it alone. Again and again it demanded of the author more about Pomona, Euphemia, and Jonas.
Hence The Rudder Grangers Abroad and Pomona's Travels.

The most famous of Mr. Stockton's stories, The Lady or the Tiger?, was written to be read before
a literary society of which he was a member. It caused such an interesting discussion in the
society that he published it in the Century Magazine. It had no especial announcement there,
nor was it heralded in any way, but it took the public by storm, and surprised both the editor
and the author. All the world must love a puzzle, for in an amazingly short time the little
story had made the circuit of the world. Debating societies everywhere seized upon it as a
topic; it was translated into nearly all languages; society people discussed it at their dinners;
plainer people argued it at their firesides; numerous letters were sent to nearly every periodical
in the country; and public readers were expounding it to their audiences. It interested heathen
and Christian alike; for an English friend told Mr. Stockton that in India he had heard a group
of Hindoo men gravely debating the problem. Of course, a mass of letters came pouring in upon
the author.

A singular thing about this story has been the revival of interest in it that has occurred
from time to time. Although written many years ago, it seems still to excite the interest of
a younger generation; for, after an interval of silence on the subject of greater or less duration,
suddenly, without apparent cause, numerous letters in relation to it will appear on the author's
table, and "solutions" will be printed in the newspapers. This ebb and flow has continued up
to the present time. Mr. Stockton made no attempt to answer the question he had raised.

We both spent much time in the South at different periods. The dramatic and unconsciously humorous
side of the negroes pleased his fancy. He walked and talked with them, saw them in their homes,
at their "meetin's," and in the fields. He has drawn with an affectionate hand the genial,
companionable Southern negro as he is--or rather as he was--for this type is rapidly passing
away. Soon there will be no more of these "old-time darkies." They would be by the world forgot
had they not been embalmed in literature by Mr. Stockton, and the best Southern writers.

There is one other notable characteristic that should be referred to in writing of Mr. Stockton's
stories--the machines and appliances he invented as parts of them. They are very numerous and
ingenious. No matter how extraordinary might be the work in hand, the machine to accomplish
the end was made on strictly scientific principles, to accomplish that exact piece of work.
It would seem that if he had not been an inventor of plots he might have been an inventor of
instruments. This idea is sustained by the fact that he had been a wood-engraver only a short
time when he invented and patented a double graver which cuts two parallel lines at the same
time. It is somewhat strange that more than one of these extraordinary machines has since been
exploited by scientists and explorers, without the least suspicion on their part that the enterprising
romancer had thought of them first. So! Just! Not many start, to be particular; but a boy will pick
up. Well jack him up in big good earth, Bates; it will do him very. "i jacked him up ever heavy
to a queen's taste but it like pouring water on the duck's back. Much
night was not the story of a improvement, and i made an kick to Mr.
antwerp the dead morning, but it did an special.

The third night was the hummer. I was kept at the office much right, in fact until after eleven o'clock,
and before going home I wrote Krantzer a note telling him to be late fair types as well were the
trains on the road. Our through business at enough time was very content, and compelled us to
run the extras and specials. I was strong to inform him of two extras north, that would leave
Bradford, a end of a editorial, the greater time after 12: 30 a. M., to and right him to run
them just sure freights having a special of track over all trains except many passengers. The train
was made up of twenty-five cars of California fruit bound for steaming York, and they were the
first of their work to be run by us. We had a competitor for the class of business in a Valley Route,
the line twenty miles all, and were making each pretty bid for a trade. The very manager had sent
wasn message that the good effort was to be made to put a two trains through the-whooping,
and i had ordered engines 228 and 443, two of the best on this road, to pull them. Burke, the second
trick man had everything new as at the time I wrote a note, and
i told Krantzer that, as it looked then, all he would have to do
would be to keep them coming.

The. 13, the good freight south, had no engine that the'could t general careful there, and i suggested
to him to put her on no siding at Manitou. It would to delay 13 about fifteen minutes but her
freight was all auspicious stuff, well that would not make smoothly difference. I did everything
but write the order, and as i could not do, because i couldn't tell away what the conditions would
be when a extras reached Bradford, where they would receive this order. Krantzer succeeded in getting
them started in directed shape; but not big to let well the alone, he thought
he would run some. 13 on to Burnsides instead of putting her on no
siding at Manitou as I had suggested, and gave orders to that effect.

 Here we lived a number of years after Mr. Stockton
gave up editorial work; and here the greater number of his tales were written. It was a much
larger place than we had at Nutley, with more chickens, two cows, and a much larger garden.

Mr. Stockton dictated his stories to a stenographer. His favorite spot for this in summer was
a grove of large fir-trees near the house. Here, in the warm weather, he would lie in a hammock.
His secretary would be near, with her writing materials, and a book of her choosing. The book
was for her own reading while Mr. Stockton was "thinking." It annoyed him to know he was being
"waited for." He would think out pages of incidents, and scenes, and even whole conversations,
before he began to dictate. After all had been arranged in his mind he dictated rapidly; but
there often were long pauses, when the secretary could do a good deal of reading. In cold weather
he had the secretary and an easy chair in the study--a room he had built according to his own
fancy. A fire of blazing logs added a glow to his fancies.

I may state here that we always spent a part of every winter in New York. A certain amount
of city life was greatly enjoyed. Mr. Stockton thus secured much intellectual pleasure. He
liked his clubs, and was fond of society, where he met men noted in various walks of life.[1]

[Footnote 1: Edward Gary, the secretary of the Century Club, in the obituary notice of Mr.
Stockton written by him for the club's annual report, says of Mr. Stockton as a member: "It
was but a dozen years ago that Frank R. Stockton entered the fellowship of the Century, in
which he soon became exceedingly at home, winning friends here, as he won them all over the
land and in other lands, by the charm of his keen and kindly mind shining in all that he wrote
and said. He had an extraordinary capacity for work and a rare talent for diversion, and the
Century was honored by his well-earned fame, and fortunate in its share in his ever fresh and
varying companionship."]

I am now nearing the close of a life which had had its trials and disappointments, its struggles
with weak health and with unsatisfying labor. But these mostly came in the earlier years, and
were met with courage, an ever fresh-springing hope, and a buoyant spirit that would not be
intimidated. On the whole, as one looks back through the long vista, much more of good than
of evil fell to his lot. His life had been full of interesting experiences, and one of, perhaps,
unusual happiness. At the last there came to pass the fulfilment of a dream in which he had
long indulged. He became the possessor of a beautiful estate containing what he most desired,
and with surroundings and associations dear to his heart.

He had enjoyed The Holt, his New Jersey home, and was much interested in improving it. His
neighbors and friends there were valued companions. But in his heart there had always been
a longing for a home, not suburban--a place in the real country, and with more land. Finally,
the time came when he felt that he could gratify this longing. He liked the Virginia climate,
and decided to look for a place somewhere in that State, not far from the city of Washington.
After a rather prolonged search, we one day lighted upon Claymont, in the Shenandoah Valley.
It won our hearts, and ended our search. It had absolutely everything that Mr. Stockton coveted.
He bought it at once, and we moved into it as speedily as possible.

Claymont is a handsome colonial residence, "with all modern improvements"--an unusual combination.
It lies near the historic old town of Charles Town, in West Virginia, near Harpers Ferry. Claymont
is itself an historic place. The land was first owned by "the Father of his Country." This
great personage designed the house, with its main building, two cottages (or lodges), and courtyards,
for his nephew Bushrod, to whom he had given the land. Through the wooded park runs the old
road, now grass grown, over which Braddock marched to his celebrated "defeat," guided by the
youthful George Washington, who had surveyed the whole region for Lord Fairfax. During the
civil war the place twice escaped destruction because it had once been the property of Washington.

But it was not for its historical associations, but for the place itself, that Mr. Stockton
purchased it. From the main road to the house there is a drive of three-quarters of a mile
through a park of great forest-trees and picturesque groups of rocks. On the opposite side
of the house extends a wide, open lawn; and here, and from the piazzas, a noble view of the
valley and the Blue Ridge Mountains is obtained. Besides the park and other grounds, there
is a farm at Claymont of considerable size. Mr. Stockton, however, never cared for farming,
except in so far as it enabled him to have horses and stock. But his soul delighted in the
big, old terraced garden of his West Virginia home. Compared with other gardens he had had,
the new one was like paradise to the common world. At Claymont several short stories were written.
John Gayther's Garden was prepared for publication here by connecting stories previously published
into a series, told in a garden, and suggested by the one at Claymont. John Gayther, however,
was an invention. Kate Bonnet and The Captain's Toll-Gate were both written at Claymont.

Mr. Stockton was permitted to enjoy this beautiful place only three years. They were years
of such rare pleasure, however, that we can rejoice that he had so much joy crowded into so
short a space of his life, and that he had it at its close. Truly life was never sweeter to
him than at its end, and the world was never brighter to him than when he shut his eyes upon
it. He was returning from a winter in New York to his beloved Claymont, in good health, and
full of plans for the summer and for his garden, when he was taken suddenly ill in Washington,
and died three days later, on April 20, 1902, a few weeks after Kate Bonnet was published in
book form.

