'Why, my mind is uncommonly agitated,' answered the Colonel, 'and--but I really have no more
to say; only I shall count the minutes till the carriage returns; but you cannot be expected
to be so anxious.'

'Why, no; use is all in all,' said the more experienced lawyer; 'I am much interested certainly,
but I think I shall be able to survive the interval, if the ladies will afford us some music.'

'And with the assistance of the wild ducks, by and by?' suggested Mannering.

'True, Colonel; a lawyer's anxiety about the fate of the most interesting cause has seldom
spoiled either his sleep or digestion. [Footnote: See Note 6.] And yet I shall be very eager
to hear the rattle of these wheels on their return, notwithstanding.'

So saying, he rose and led the way into the next room, where Miss Mannering, at his request,
took her seat at the harpsichord, Lucy Bertram, who sung her native melodies very sweetly,
was accompanied by her friend upon the instrument, and Julia afterwards performed some of Scarlatti's
sonatas with great brilliancy. The old lawyer, scraping a little upon the violoncello, and
being a member of the gentlemen's concert in Edinburgh, was so greatly delighted with this
mode of spending the evening that I doubt if he once thought of the wild ducks until Barnes
informed the company that supper was ready.

'Tell Mrs. Allan to have something in readiness,' said the Colonel; 'I expect--that is, I hope--perhaps
some company may be here to-night; and let the men sit up, and do not lock the upper gate on
the lawn until I desire you.'

'Lord, sir,' said Julia, 'whom can you possibly expect to-night?'

'Why, some persons, strangers to me, talked of calling in the evening on business,' answered
her father, not without embarrassment, for he would have little brooked a disappointment which
might have thrown ridicule on his judgment; 'it is quite uncertain.'

'Well, we shall not pardon them for disturbing our party,' said Julia, 'unless they bring as
much good-humour and as susceptible hearts as my friend and admirer, for so he has dubbed himself,
Mr. Pleydell.'

'Ah, Miss Julia,' said Pleydell, offering his arm with an air of gallantry to conduct her into
the eating-room, 'the time has been, when I returned from Utrecht in the year 1738--'

'Pray don't talk of it,' answered the young lady; 'we like you much better as you are. Utrecht,
in Heaven's name! I daresay you have spent all the intervening years in getting rid so completely
of the effects of your Dutch education.'

'O forgive me, Miss Mannering,' said the Lawyer, 'the Dutch are a much more accomplished people
in point of gallantry than their volatile neighbours are willing to admit. They are constant
as clock-work in their attentions.'

'I should tire of that,' said Julia.

'Imperturbable in their good temper,' continued Pleydell.

'Worse and worse,' said the young lady.

'And then,' said the old beau garcon, 'although for six times three hundred and sixty-five
days your swain has placed the capuchin round your neck, and the stove under your feet, and
driven your little sledge upon the ice in winter, and your cabriole through the dust in summer,
you may dismiss him at once, without reason or apology, upon the two thousand one hundred and
ninetieth day, which, according to my hasty calculation, and without reckoning leap-years,
will complete the cycle of the supposed adoration, and that without your amiable feelings having
the slightest occasion to be alarmed for the consequences to those of Mynheer.'

'Well,' replied Julia,' that last is truly a Dutch recommendation, Mr. Pleydell; crystal and
hearts would lose all their merit in the world if it were not for their fragility.'

'Why, upon that point of the argument, Miss Mannering, it is as difficult to find a heart that
will break as a glass that will not; and for that reason I would press the value of mine own,
were it not that I see Mr. Sampson's eyes have been closed, and his hands clasped for some
time, attending the end of our conference to begin the grace. And, to say the truth, the appearance
of the wild ducks is very appetising.' So saying, the worthy Counsellor sat himself to table,
and laid aside his gallantry for awhile to do honour to the good things placed before him.
Nothing further is recorded of him for some time, excepting an observation that the ducks were
roasted to a single turn, and that Mrs. Allan's sauce of claret, lemon, and cayenne was beyond
praise.

'I see,' said Miss Mannering, 'I have a formidable rival in Mr. Pleydell's favour, even on
the very first night of his avowed admiration.'

'Pardon me, my fair lady,' answered the Counsellor, 'your avowed rigour alone has induced me
to commit the solecism of eating a good supper in your presence; how shall I support your frowns
without reinforcing my strength? Upon the same principle, and no other, I will ask permission
to drink wine with you.'

'This is the fashion of Utrecht also, I suppose, Mr. Pleydell?'

'Forgive me, madam,' answered the Counsellor; 'the French themselves, the patterns of all that
is gallant, term their tavern-keepers restaurateurs, alluding, doubtless, to the relief they
afford the disconsolate lover when bowed down to the earth by his mistress's severity. My own
case requires so much relief that I must trouble you for that other wing, Mr. Sampson, without
prejudice to my afterwards applying to Miss Bertram for a tart. Be pleased to tear the wing,
sir, instead of cutting it off. Mr. Barnes will assist you, Mr. Sampson; thank you, sir; and,
Mr. Barnes, a glass of ale, if you please.'

While the old gentleman, pleased with Miss Mannering's liveliness and attention, rattled away
for her amusement and his own, the impatience of Colonel Mannering began to exceed all bounds.
He declined sitting down at table, under pretence that he never eat supper; and traversed the
parlour in which they were with hasty and impatient steps, now throwing up the window to gaze
upon the dark lawn, now listening for the remote sound of the carriage advancing up the avenue.
At length, in a feeling of uncontrollable impatience, he left the room, took his hat and cloak,
and pursued his walk up the avenue, as if his so doing would hasten the approach of those whom
he desired to see. 'I really wish,' said Miss Bertram,' Colonel Mannering would not venture
out after nightfall. You must have heard, Mr. Pleydell, what a cruel fright we had.'

'O, with the smugglers?' replied the Advocate; 'they are old friends of mine. I was the means
of bringing some of them to justice a long time since, when sheriff of this county.'

'And then the alarm we had immediately afterwards,' added Miss Bertram, 'from the vengeance
of one of these wretches.'

'When young Hazlewood was hurt; I heard of that too.'

'Imagine, my dear Mr. Pleydell,' continued Lucy, 'how much Miss Mannering and I were alarmed
when a ruffian, equally dreadful for his great strength and the sternness of his features,
rushed out upon us!'

'You must know, Mr. Pleydell,' said Julia, unable to suppress her resentment at this undesigned
aspersion of her admirer, 'that young Hazlewood is so handsome in the eyes of the young ladies
of this country that they think every person shocking who comes near him.'

'Oho!' thought Pleydell, who was by profession an observer of tones and gestures,' there's
something wrong here between my young friends.'--'Well, Miss Mannering, I have not seen young
Hazlewood since he was a boy, so the ladies may be perfectly right; but I can assure you, in
spite of your scorn, that if you want to see handsome men you must go to Holland; the prettiest
fellow I ever saw was a Dutchman, in spite of his being called Vanbost, or Vanbuster, or some
such barbarous name. He will not be quite so handsome now, to be sure.'

It was now Julia's turn to look a little out of countenance at the chance hit of her learned
admirer, but that instant the Colonel entered the room. 'I can hear nothing of them yet,' he
said; 'still, however, we will not separate. Where is Dominie Sampson?'

'Here, honoured sir.'

'What is that book you hold in your hand, Mr. Sampson?'

'It's even the learned De Lyra, sir. I would crave his honour Mr. Pleydell's judgment, always
with his best leisure, to expound a disputed passage.'

'I am not in the vein, Mr. Sampson,' answered Pleydell; 'here's metal more attractive. I do
not despair to engage these two young ladies in a glee or a catch, wherein I, even I myself,
will adventure myself for the bass part. Hang De Lyra, man; keep him for a fitter season.'

The disappointed Dominie shut his ponderous tome, much marvelling in his mind how a person
possessed of the lawyer's erudition could give his mind to these frivolous toys. But the Counsellor,
indifferent to the high character for learning which he was trifling away, filled himself a
large glass of Burgundy, and, after preluding a little with a voice somewhat the worse for
the wear, gave the ladies a courageous invitation to join in 'We be Three Poor Mariners,' and
accomplished his own part therein with great eclat.

'Are you not withering your roses with sitting up so late, my young ladies?' said the Colonel.

'Not a bit, sir,' answered Julia; 'your friend Mr. Pleydell threatens to become a pupil of
Mr. Sampson's to-morrow, so we must make the most of our conquest to-night.'

This led to another musical trial of skill, and that to lively conversation. At length, when
the solitary sound of one o'clock had long since resounded on the ebon ear of night, and the
next signal of the advance of time was close approaching, Mannering, whose impatience had long
subsided into disappointment and despair, looked at his watch and said, 'We must now give them
up,' when at that instant--But what then befell will require a separate chapter.

CHAPTER L

     JUSTICE This does indeed confirm each circumstance
     The gipsy told!
     No orphan, nor without a friend art thou.
     I am thy father, HERE'S thy mother, THERE
     Thy uncle, THIS thy first cousin, and THESE
     Are all thy near relations!

          The Critic.

As Mannering replaced his watch, he heard a distant and hollow sound. 'It is a carriage for
certain; no, it is but the sound of the wind among the leafless trees. Do come to the window,
Mr. Pleydell.' The Counsellor, who, with his large silk handkerchief in his hand, was expatiating
away to Julia upon some subject which he thought was interesting, obeyed the summons, first,
however, wrapping the handkerchief round his neck by way of precaution against the cold air.
The sound of wheels became now very perceptible, and Pleydell, as if he had reserved all his
curiosity till that moment, ran out to the hall. The Colonel rung for Barnes to desire that
the persons who came in the carriage might be shown into a separate room, being altogether
uncertain whom it might contain. It stopped, however, at the door before his purpose could
be fully explained. A moment after Mr. Pleydell called out, 'Here's our Liddesdale friend,
I protest, with a strapping young fellow of the same calibre.' His voice arrested Dinmont,
who recognised him with equal surprise and pleasure. 'Od, if it's your honour we'll a' be as
right and tight as thack and rape can make us.'

But while the farmer stopped to make his bow, Bertram, dizzied with the sudden glare of light,
and bewildered with the circumstances of his situation, almost unconsciously entered the open
door of the parlour, and confronted the Colonel, who was just advancing towards it. The strong
light of the apartment left no doubt of his identity, and he himself was as much confounded
with the appearance of those to whom he so unexpectedly presented himself as they were by the
sight of so utterly unlooked-for an object. It must be remembered that each individual present
had their own peculiar reasons for looking with terror upon what seemed at first sight a spectral
apparition. Mannering saw before him the man whom he supposed he had killed in India; Julia
beheld her lover in a most peculiar and hazardous situation; and Lucy Bertram at once knew
the person who had fired upon young Hazlewood. Bertram, who interpreted the fixed and motionless
astonishment of the Colonel into displeasure at his intrusion, hastened to say that it was
involuntary, since he had been hurried hither without even knowing whither he was to be transported.

'Mr. Brown, I believe!' said Colonel Mannering.

'Yes, sir,' replied the young man, modestly, but with firmness, 'the same you knew in India;
and who ventures to hope, that what you did then know of him is not such as should prevent
his requesting you would favour him with your attestation to his character as a gentleman and
man of honour.'

'Mr. Brown, I have been seldom--never--so much surprised; certainly, sir, in whatever passed
between us you have a right to command my favourable testimony.'

At this critical moment entered the Counsellor and Dinmont. The former beheld to his astonishment
the Colonel but just recovering from his first surprise, Lucy Bertram ready to faint with terror,
and Miss Mannering in an agony of doubt and apprehension, which she in vain endeavoured to
disguise or suppress. 'What is the meaning of all this?' said he; 'has this young fellow brought
the Gorgon's head in his hand? let me look at him. By Heaven!' he muttered to himself, 'the
very image of old Ellangowan! Yes, the same manly form and handsome features, but with a world
of more intelligence in the face. Yes! the witch has kept her word.' Then instantly passing
to Lucy, 'Look at that man, Miss Bertram, my dear; have you never seen any one like him?'

Lucy had only ventured one glance at this object of terror, by which, however, from his remarkable
height and appearance, she at once recognised the supposed assassin of young Hazlewood, a conviction
which excluded, of course, the more favourable association of ideas which might have occurred
on a closer view. 'Don't ask me about him, sir,' said she, turning away her eyes; 'send him
away, for Heaven's sake! we shall all be murdered!'

'Murdered! where's the poker?' said the Advocate in some alarm; 'but nonsense! we are three
men besides the servants, and there is honest Liddesdale, worth half-a-dozen, to boot; we have
the major vis upon our side. However, here, my friend Dandie--Davie--what do they call you?
keep between that fellow and us for the protection of the ladies.'

'Lord! Mr. Pleydell,' said the astonished farmer, 'that's Captain Brown; d 'ye no ken the Captain?'

'Nay, if he's a friend of yours we may be safe enough,' answered Pleydell; 'but keep near him.'

All this passed with such rapidity that it was over before the Dominie had recovered himself
from a fit of absence, shut the book which he had been studying in a corner, and, advancing
to obtain a sight of the strangers, exclaimed at once upon beholding Bertram, 'If the grave
can give up the dead, that is my dear and honoured master!'

'We're right after all, by Heaven! I was sure I was right,' said the Lawyer; 'he is the very
image of his father. Come, Colonel, what do you think of, that you do not bid your guest welcome?
I think--I believe--I trust we're right; never saw such a likeness! But patience; Dominie,
say not a word. Sit down, young gentleman.'

'I beg pardon, sir; if I am, as I understand, in Colonel Mannering's house, I should wish first
to know if my accidental appearance here gives offence, or if I am welcome?'

Mannering instantly made an effort. 'Welcome? most certainly, especially if you can point out
how I can serve you. I believe I may have some wrongs to repair towards you, I have often suspected
so; but your sudden and unexpected appearance, connected with painful recollections, prevented
my saying at first, as I now say, that whatever has procured me the honour of this visit, it
is an acceptable one.'

Bertram bowed with an air of distant yet civil acknowledgment to the grave courtesy of Mannering.

'Julia, my love, you had better retire. Mr. Brown, you will excuse my daughter; there are circumstances
which I perceive rush upon her recollection.'

Miss Mannering rose and retired accordingly; yet, as she passed Bertram, could not suppress
the words, 'Infatuated! a second time!' but so pronounced as to be heard by him alone. Miss
Bertram accompanied her friend, much surprised, but without venturing a second glance at the
object of her terror. Some mistake she saw there was, and was unwilling to increase it by denouncing
the stranger as an assassin. He was known, she saw, to the Colonel, and received as a gentleman;
certainly he either was not the person she suspected or Hazlewood was right in supposing the
shot accidental.

The remaining part of the company would have formed no bad group for a skilful painter. Each
was too much embarrassed with his own sensations to observe those of the others. Bertram most
unexpectedly found himself in the house of one whom he was alternately disposed to dislike
as his personal enemy and to respect as the father of Julia. Mannering was struggling between
his high sense of courtesy and hospitality, his joy at finding himself relieved from the guilt
of having shed life in a private quarrel, and the former feelings of dislike and prejudice,
which revived in his haughty mind at the sight of the object against whom he had entertained
them. Sampson, supporting his shaking limbs by leaning on the back of a chair, fixed his eyes
upon Bertram with a staring expression of nervous anxiety which convulsed his whole visage.
Dinmont, enveloped in his loose shaggy great-coat, and resembling a huge bear erect upon his
hinder legs, stared on the whole scene with great round eyes that witnessed his amazement.

The Counsellor alone was in his element: shrewd, prompt, and active, he already calculated
the prospect of brilliant success in a strange, eventful, and mysterious lawsuit, and no young
monarch, flushed with hopes, and at the head of a gallant army, could experience more glee
when taking the field on his first campaign. He bustled about with great energy, and took the
arrangement of the whole explanation upon himself.

'Come, come, gentlemen, sit down; this is all in my province; you must let me arrange it for
you. Sit down, my dear Colonel, and let me manage; sit down, Mr. Brown, aut quocunque alio
nomine vocaris; Dominie, take your seat; draw in your chair, honest Liddesdale.'

'I dinna ken, Mr. Pleydell,' said Dinmont, looking at his dreadnought coat, then at the handsome
furniture of the room; 'I had maybe better gang some gate else, and leave ye till your cracks,
I'm no just that weel put on.'

The Colonel, who by this time recognised Dandie, immediately went up and bid him heartily welcome;
assuring him that, from what he had seen of him in Edinburgh, he was sure his rough coat and
thick-soled boots would honour a royal drawing-room.

'Na, na, Colonel, we're just plain up-the-country folk; but nae doubt I would fain hear o'
ony pleasure that was gaun to happen the Captain, and I'm sure a' will gae right if Mr. Pleydell
will take his bit job in hand.'

'You're right, Dandie; spoke like a Hieland [Footnote: It may not be unnecessary to tell southern
readers that the mountainous country in the south western borders of Scotland is called Hieland,
though totally different from the much more mountainous and more extensive districts of the
north, usually called Hielands.] oracle; and now be silent. Well, you are all seated at last;
take a glass of wine till I begin my catechism methodically. And now,' turning to Bertram,
'my dear boy, do you know who or what you are?'

In spite of his perplexity the catechumen could not help laughing at this commencement, and
answered, 'Indeed, sir, I formerly thought I did; but I own late circumstances have made me
somewhat uncertain.'

'Then tell us what you formerly thought yourself.'

'Why, I was in the habit of thinking and calling myself Vanbeest Brown, who served as a cadet
or volunteer under Colonel Mannering, when he commanded the--regiment, in which capacity I
was not unknown to him.'

'There,' said the Colonel, 'I can assure Mr. Brown of his identity; and add, what his modesty
may have forgotten, that he was distinguished as a young man of talent and spirit.'

'So much the better, my dear sir,' said Mr. Pleydell; 'but that is to general character. Mr.
Brown must tell us where he was born.'

'In Scotland, I believe, but the place uncertain.'

'Where educated?'

'In Holland, certainly.'

'Do you remember nothing of your early life before you left Scotland?'

'Very imperfectly; yet I have a strong idea, perhaps more deeply impressed upon me by subsequent
hard usage, that I was during my childhood the object of much solicitude and affection. I have
an indistinct remembrance of a good-looking man whom I used to call papa, and of a lady who
was infirm in health, and who, I think, must have been my mother; but it is an imperfect and
confused recollection. I remember too a tall, thin, kind-tempered man in black, who used to
teach me my letters and walk out with me; and I think the very last time--'

Here the Dominie could contain no longer. While every succeeding word served to prove that
the child of his benefactor stood before him, he had struggled with the utmost difficulty to
suppress his emotions; but when the juvenile recollections of Bertram turned towards his tutor
and his precepts he was compelled to give way to his feelings. He rose hastily from his chair,
and with clasped hands, trembling limbs, and streaming eyes, called out aloud, 'Harry Bertram!
look at me; was I not the man?'

'Yes!' said Bertram, starting from his seat as if a sudden light had burst in upon his mind;
'yes; that was my name! And that is the voice and the figure of my kind old master!'

The Dominie threw himself into his arms, pressed him a thousand times to his bosom in convulsions
of transport which shook his whole frame, sobbed hysterically, and at length, in the emphatic
language of Scripture, lifted up his voice and wept aloud. Colonel Mannering had recourse to
his handkerchief; Pleydell made wry faces, and wiped the glasses of his spectacles; and honest
Dinmont, after two loud blubbering explosions, exclaimed, 'Deil's in the man! he's garr'd me
do that I haena done since my auld mither died.'

'Come, come,' said the Counsellor at last, 'silence in the court. We have a clever party to
contend with; we must lose no time in gathering our information; for anything I know there
may be something to be done before daybreak.'

'I will order a horse to be saddled if you please,' said the Colonel.

'No, no, time enough, time enough. But come, Dominie, I have allowed you a competent space
to express your feelings. I must circumduce the term; you must let me proceed in my examination.'

The Dominie was habitually obedient to any one who chose to impose commands upon him: he sunk
back into his chair, spread his chequered handkerchief over his face, to serve, as I suppose,
for the Grecian painter's veil, and, from the action of his folded hands, appeared for a time
engaged in the act of mental thanksgiving. He then raised his eyes over the screen, as if to
be assured that the pleasing apparition had not melted into air; then again sunk them to resume
his internal act of devotion, until he felt himself compelled to give attention to the Counsellor,
from the interest which his questions excited.

'And now,' said Mr. Pleydell, after several minute inquiries concerning his recollection of
early events--'and now, Mr. Bertram,--for I think we ought in future to call you by your own
proper name--will you have the goodness to let us know every particular which you can recollect
concerning the mode of your leaving Scotland?'

'Indeed, sir, to say the truth, though the terrible outlines of that day are strongly impressed
upon my memory, yet somehow the very terror which fixed them there has in a great measure confounded
and confused the details. I recollect, however, that I was walking somewhere or other, in a
wood, I think--'

'O yes, it was in Warroch wood, my dear,' said the Dominie.

'Hush, Mr. Sampson,' said the Lawyer.

'Yes, it was in a wood,' continued Bertram, as long past and confused ideas arranged themselves
in his reviving recollection; 'and some one was with me; this worthy and affectionate gentleman,
I think.'

'O, ay, ay, Harry, Lord bless thee; it was even I myself.'

'Be silent, Dominie, and don't interrupt the evidence,' said Pleydell. 'And so, sir?' to Bertram.

'And so, sir,' continued Bertram, 'like one of the changes of a dream, I thought I was on horseback
before my guide.'

'No, no,' exclaimed Sampson, 'never did I put my own limbs, not to say thine, into such peril.'

'On my word, this is intolerable! Look ye, Dominie, if you speak another word till I give you
leave, I will read three sentences out of the Black Acts, whisk my cane round my head three
times, undo all the magic of this night's work, and conjure Harry Bertram back again into Vanbeest
Brown.'

'Honoured and worthy sir,' groaned out the Dominie, 'I humbly crave pardon; it was but verbum
volans.'

'Well, nolens volens, you must hold your tongue,' said Pleydell.

'Pray, be silent, Mr. Sampson,' said the Colonel; 'it is of great consequence to your recovered
friend that you permit Mr. Pleydell to proceed in his inquiries.'

'I am mute,' said the rebuked Dominie.

'On a sudden,' continued Bertram, 'two or three men sprung out upon us, and we were pulled
from horseback. I have little recollection of anything else, but that I tried to escape in
the midst of a desperate scuffle, and fell into the arms of a very tall woman who started from
the bushes and protected me for some time; the rest is all confusion and dread, a dim recollection
of a sea-beach and a cave, and of some strong potion which lulled me to sleep for a length
of time. In short, it is all a blank in my memory until I recollect myself first an ill-used
and half-starved cabin-boy aboard a sloop, and then a schoolboy in Holland, under the protection
of an old merchant, who had taken some fancy for me.'

'And what account,' said Mr. Pleydell, 'did your guardian give of your parentage?'

'A very brief one,' answered Bertram, 'and a charge to inquire no farther. I was given to understand
that my father was concerned in the smuggling trade carried on on the eastern coast of Scotland,
and was killed in a skirmish with the revenue officers; that his correspondents in Holland
had a vessel on the coast at the time, part of the crew of which were engaged in the affair,
and that they brought me off after it was over, from a motive of compassion, as I was left
destitute by my father's death. As I grew older there was much of this story seemed inconsistent
with my own recollections, but what could I do? I had no means of ascertaining my doubts, nor
a single friend with whom I could communicate or canvass them. The rest of my story is known
to Colonel Mannering: I went out to India to be a clerk in a Dutch house; their affairs fell
into confusion; I betook myself to the military profession, and, I trust, as yet I have not
disgraced it.'

'Thou art a fine young fellow, I'll be bound for thee,' said Pleydell, 'and since you have
wanted a father so long, I wish from my heart I could claim the paternity myself. But this
affair of young Hazlewood--'

'Was merely accidental,' said Bertram. 'I was travelling in Scotland for pleasure, and, after
a week's residence with my friend Mr. Dinmont, with whom I had the good fortune to form an
accidental acquaintance--'

"It was my gude fortune that," said Dinmont. "Odd, my brains wad hae been knockit out by twa
black-guards if it hadna been for his four quarters."

"Shortly after we parted at the town of----I lost my baggage by thieves, and it was while residing
at Kippletringan I accidentally met the young gentleman. As I was approaching to pay my respects
to Miss Mannering, whom I had known in India, Mr. Hazlewood, conceiving my appearance none
of the most respectable, commanded me rather haughtily to stand back, and so gave occasion
to the fray, in which I had the misfortune to be the accidental means of wounding him. And
now, sir, that I have answered all your questions--"

"No, no, not quite all," said Pleydell, winking sagaciously; "there are some interrogatories
which I shall delay till to- morrow, for it is time, I believe, to close the sederunt for this
night, or rather morning."

"Well, then, sir," said the young man, "to vary the phrase, since I have answered all the questions
which you have chosen to ask to- night, will you be so good as to tell me who you are that
take such interest in my affairs, and whom you take me to be, since my arrival has occasioned
such commotion?"

"Why, sir, for myself," replied the Counsellor, "I am Paulus Pleydell, an advocate at the Scottish
bar; and for you, it is not easy to say distinctly who you are at present, but I trust in a
short time to hail you by the title of Henry Bertram, Esq., representative of one of the oldest
families in Scotland, and heir of Tailzie and provision to the estate of Ellangowan. Ay," continued
he, shutting his eyes and speaking to himself, "we must pass over his father, and serve him
heir to his grandfather Lewis, the entailer; the only wise man of his family, that I ever heard
of."

They had now risen to retire to their apartments for the night, when Colonel Mannering walked
up to Bertram, as he stood astonished at the Counsellor's words. "I give you joy," he said,
"of the prospects which fate has opened before you. I was an early friend of your father, and
chanced to be in the house of Ellangowan, as unexpectedly as you are now in mine, upon the
very night in which you were born. I little knew this circumstance when--but I trust unkindness
will be forgotten between us. Believe me, your appearance here as Mr. Brown, alive and well,
has relieved me from most painful sensations; and your right to the name of an old friend renders
your presence as Mr. Bertram doubly welcome."

"And my parents?" said Bertram.

"Are both no more; and the family property has been sold, but I trust may be recovered. Whatever
is wanted to make your right effectual I shall be most happy to supply."

"Nay, you may leave all that to me," said the Counsellor; "'t is my vocation, Hal; I shall
make money of it."

"I'm sure it's no for the like o' me," observed Dinmont, "to speak to you gentlefolks; but
if siller would help on the Captain's plea, and they say nae plea gangs ain weel without it--"

"Except on Saturday night," said Pleydell.

"Ay, but when your honour wadna take your fee ye wadna hae the cause neither, sae I'll ne'er
fash you on a Saturday at e'en again. But I was saying, there's some siller in the spleuchan
that's like the Captain's ain, for we've aye counted it such, baith Ailie and me."

'No, no, Liddesdale; no occasion, no occasion whatever. Keep thy cash to stock thy farm.'

'To stock my farm? Mr. Pleydell, your honour kens mony things, but ye dinna ken the farm o'
Charlie's Hope; it's sae weel stockit already that we sell maybe sax hundred pounds off it
ilka year, flesh and fell the gither; na, na.'

'Can't you take another then?'

'I dinna ken; the Deuke's no that fond o' led farms, and he canna bide to put away the auld
tenantry; and then I wadna like mysell to gang about whistling [Footnote: See Note 7.] and
raising the rent on my neighbours.'

'What, not upon thy neighbour at Dawston--Devilstone--how d 'ye call the place?'

'What, on Jock o' Dawston? hout na. He's a camsteary chield, and fasheous about marches, and
we've had some bits o' splores thegither; but deil o' me if I wad wrang Jock o' Dawston neither.'

'Thou'rt an honest fellow,' said the Lawyer; 'get thee to bed. Thou wilt sleep sounder, I warrant
thee, than many a man that throws off an embroidered coat and puts on a laced nightcap. Colonel,
I see you are busy with our enfant trouve. But Barnes must give me a summons of wakening at
seven to-morrow morning, for my servant's a sleepy-headed fellow; and I daresay my clerk Driver
has had Clarence's fate, and is drowned by this time in a butt of your ale; for Mrs. Allan
promised to make him comfortable, and she'll soon discover what he expects from that engagement.
Good- night, Colonel; good-night, Dominie Sampson; good-night, Dinmont the Downright; good-night,
last of all, to the new-found representative of the Bertrams, and the Mac-Dingawaies, the Knarths,
the Arths, the Godfreys, the Dennises, and the Rolands, and, last and dearest title, heir of
tailzie and provision of the lands and barony of Ellangowan, under the settlement of Lewis
Bertram, Esq., whose representative you are.'

And so saying, the old gentleman took his candle and left the room; and the company dispersed,
after the Dominie had once more hugged and embraced his 'little Harry Bertram,' as he continued
to call the young soldier of six feet high.

CHAPTER LI

                        My imagination
       Carries no favour in it but Bertram's;
       I am undone, there is no living, none,
       If Bertram be away.
                        --All's Well that Ends Well.

At the hour which he had appointed the preceding evening the indefatigable lawyer was seated
by a good fire and a pair of wax candles, with a velvet cap on his head and a quilted silk
nightgown on his person, busy arranging his memoranda of proofs and indications concerning
the murder of Frank Kennedy. An express had also been despatched to Mr. Mac-Morlan, requesting
his attendance at Woodbourne as soon as possible on business of importance. Dinmont, fatigued
with the events of the evening before, and finding the accommodations of Woodbourne much preferable
to those of Mac-Guffog, was in no hurry to rise. The impatience of Bertram might have put him
earlier in motion, but Colonel Mannering had intimated an intention to visit him in his apartment
in the morning, and he did not choose to leave it. Before this interview he had dressed himself,
Barnes having, by his master's orders, supplied him with every accommodation of linen, etc.,
and now anxiously waited the promised visit of his landlord.

In a short time a gentle tap announced the Colonel, with whom Bertram held a long and satisfactory
conversation. Each, however, concealed from the other one circumstance. Mannering could not
bring himself to acknowledge the astrological prediction; and Bertram was, from motives which
may be easily conceived, silent respecting his love for Julia. In other respects their intercourse
was frank and grateful to both, and had latterly, upon the Colonel's part, even an approach
to cordiality. Bertram carefully measured his own conduct by that of his host, and seemed rather
to receive his offered kindness with gratitude and pleasure than to press for it with solicitation.

Miss Bertram was in the breakfast-parlour when Sampson shuffled in, his face all radiant with
smiles--a circumstance so uncommon that Lucy's first idea was that somebody had been bantering
him with an imposition, which had thrown him into this ecstasy. Having sate for some time rolling
his eyes and gaping with his mouth like the great wooden head at Merlin's exhibition, he at
length began-- 'And what do you think of him, Miss Lucy?'

'Think of whom, Mr. Sampson?' asked the young lady.

'Of Har--no--of him that you know about?' again demanded the Dominie.

'That I know about?' replied Lucy, totally at a loss to comprehend his meaning.

'Yes, the stranger, you know, that came last evening, in the post vehicle; he who shot young
Hazelwood, ha, ha, ha!' burst forth the Dominie, with a laugh that sounded like neighing.

'Indeed, Mr. Sampson,' said his pupil, 'you have chosen a strange subject for mirth; I think
nothing about the man, only I hope the outrage was accidental, and that we need not fear a
repetition of it.'

'Accidental! ha, ha, ha!' again whinnied Sampson.

'Really, Mr. Sampson,' said Lucy, somewhat piqued, 'you are unusually gay this morning.'

'Yes, of a surety I am! ha, ha, ho! face-ti-ous, ho, ho, ha!'

'So unusually facetious, my dear sir,' pursued the young lady, 'that I would wish rather to
know the meaning of your mirth than to be amused with its effects only.'

'You shall know it, Miss Lucy,' replied poor Abel. 'Do you remember your brother?'

'Good God, how can you ask me? No one knows better than you he was lost the very day I was born.'

'Very true, very true,' answered the Dominie, saddening at the recollection; 'I was strangely
oblivious; ay, ay! too true. But you remember your worthy father?'

'How should you doubt it, Mr. Sampson? it is not so many weeks since--'

'True, true; ay, too true,' replied the Dominie, his Houyhnhnm laugh sinking into a hysterical
giggle. 'I will be facetious no more under these remembrances; but look at that young man!'

Bertram at this instant entered the room. 'Yes, look at him well, he is your father's living
image; and as God has deprived you of your dear parents--O, my children, love one another!'

'It is indeed my father's face and form,' said Lucy, turning very pale. Bertram ran to support
her, the Dominie to fetch water to throw upon her face (which in his haste he took from the
boiling tea-urn), when fortunately her colour, returning rapidly, saved her from the application
of this ill-judged remedy. 'I conjure you to tell me, Mr. Sampson,' she said, in an interrupted
yet solemn voice, 'is this my brother?'

'It is, it is! Miss Lucy, it is little Harry Bertram, as sure as God's sun is in that heaven!'

'And this is my sister?' said Bertram, giving way to all that family affection which had so
long slumbered in his bosom for want of an object to expand itself upon.

'It is, it is!--it is Miss Lucy Bertram,' ejaculated Sampson, 'whom by my poor aid you will
find perfect in the tongues of France and Italy, and even of Spain, in reading and writing
her vernacular tongue, and in arithmetic and book-keeping by double and single entry. I say
nothing of her talents of shaping and hemming and governing a household, which, to give every
one their due, she acquired not from me but from the housekeeper; nor do I take merit for her
performance upon stringed instruments, whereunto the instructions of an honourable young lady
of virtue and modesty, and very facetious withal--Miss Julia Mannering--hath not meanly contributed.
Suum cuique tribuito.'

'You, then,' said Bertram to his sister, 'are all that remains to me! Last night, but more
fully this morning, Colonel Mannering gave me an account of our family misfortunes, though
without saying I should find my sister here.'

'That,' said Lucy, 'he left to this gentleman to tell you--one of the kindest and most faithful
of friends, who soothed my father's long sickness, witnessed his dying moments, and amid the
heaviest clouds of fortune would not desert his orphan.'

'God bless him for it!' said Bertram, shaking the Dominie's hand;' he deserves the love with
which I have always regarded even that dim and imperfect shadow of his memory which my childhood
retained.'

'And God bless you both, my dear children!' said Sampson; 'if it had not been for your sake
I would have been contented--had Heaven's pleasure so been--to lay my head upon the turf beside
my patron.'

'But I trust,' said Bertram--'I am encouraged to hope, we shall all see better days. All our
wrongs shall be redressed, since Heaven has sent me means and friends to assert my right.'

'Friends indeed!' echoed the Dominie, 'and sent, as you truly say, by HIM to whom I early taught
you to look up as the source of all that is good. There is the great Colonel Mannering from
the Eastern Indies, a man of war from his birth upwards, but who is not the less a man of great
erudition, considering his imperfect opportunities; and there is, moreover, the great advocate
Mr. Pleydell, who is also a man of great erudition, but who descendeth to trifles unbeseeming
thereof; and there is Mr. Andrew Dinmont, whom I do not understand to have possession of much
erudition, but who, like the patriarchs of old, is cunning in that which belongeth to flocks
and herds; lastly, there is even I myself, whose opportunities of collecting erudition, as
they have been greater than those of the aforesaid valuable persons, have not, if it becomes
me to speak, been pretermitted by me, in so far as my poor faculties have enabled me to profit
by them. Of a surety, little Harry, we must speedily resume our studies. I will begin from
the foundation. Yes, I will reform your education upward from the true knowledge of English
grammar even to that of the Hebrew or Chaldaic tongue.'

The reader may observe that upon this occasion Sampson was infinitely more profuse of words
than he had hitherto exhibited himself. The reason was that, in recovering his pupil, his mind
went instantly back to their original connexion, and he had, in his confusion of ideas, the
strongest desire in the world to resume spelling lessons and half-text with young Bertram.
This was the more ridiculous, as towards Lucy he assumed no such powers of tuition. But she
had grown up under his eye, and had been gradually emancipated from his government by increase
in years and knowledge, and a latent sense of his own inferior tact in manners, whereas his
first ideas went to take up Harry pretty nearly where he had left him. From the same feelings
of reviving authority he indulged himself in what was to him a profusion of language; and as
people seldom speak more than usual without exposing themselves, he gave those whom he addressed
plainly to understand that, while he deferred implicitly to the opinions and commands, if they
chose to impose them, of almost every one whom he met with, it was under an internal conviction
that in the article of eru-di-ti-on, as he usually pronounced the word, he was infinitely superior
to them all put together. At present, however, this intimation fell upon heedless ears, for
the brother and sister were too deeply engaged in asking and receiving intelligence concerning
their former fortunes to attend much to the worthy Dominie. When Colonel Mannering left Bertram
he went to Julia's dressing-room and dismissed her attendant. 'My dear sir,' she said as he
entered, 'you have forgot our vigils last night, and have hardly allowed me time to comb my
hair, although you must be sensible how it stood on end at the various wonders which took place.'

'It is with the inside of your head that I have some business at present, Julia; I will return
the outside to the care of your Mrs. Mincing in a few minutes.'

'Lord, papa,' replied Miss Mannering, 'think how entangled all my ideas are, and you to propose
to comb them out in a few minutes! If Mincing were to do so in her department she would tear
half the hair out of my head.'

'Well then, tell me,' said the Colonel, 'where the entanglement lies, which I will try to extricate
with due gentleness?'

'O, everywhere,' said the young lady; 'the whole is a wild dream.'

'Well then, I will try to unriddle it.' He gave a brief sketch of the fate and prospects of
Bertram, to which Julia listened with an interest which she in vain endeavoured to disguise.
'Well,' concluded her father, 'are your ideas on the subject more luminous?'

'More confused than ever, my dear sir,' said Julia. 'Here is this young man come from India,
after he had been supposed dead, like Aboulfouaris the great voyager to his sister Canzade
and his provident brother Hour. I am wrong in the story, I believe-- Canzade was his wife;
but Lucy may represent the one and the Dominie the other. And then this lively crack-brained
Scotch lawyer appears like a pantomime at the end of a tragedy. And then how delightful it
will be if Lucy gets back her fortune.'

'Now I think,' said the Colonel, 'that the most mysterious part of the business is, that Miss
Julia Mannering, who must have known her father's anxiety about the fate of this young man
Brown, or Bertram, as we must now call him, should have met him when Hazlewood's accident took
place, and never once mentioned to her father a word of the matter, but suffered the search
to proceed against this young gentleman as a suspicious character and assassin.'

Julia, much of whose courage had been hastily assumed to meet the interview with her father,
was now unable to rally herself; she hung down her head in silence, after in vain attempting
to utter a denial that she recollected Brown when she met him.

'No answer! Well, Julia,' continued her father, gravely but kindly, 'allow me to ask you, Is
this the only time you have seen Brown since his return from India? Still no answer. I must
then naturally suppose that it is not the first time. Still no reply. Julia Mannering, will
you have the kindness to answer me? Was it this young man who came under your window and conversed
with you during your residence at Mervyn Hall? Julia, I command--I entreat you to be candid.'

Miss Mannering raised her head. 'I have been, sir--I believe I am still--very foolish; and
it is perhaps more hard upon me that I must meet this gentleman, who has been, though not the
cause entirely, yet the accomplice, of my folly, in your presence.' Here she made a full stop.

'I am to understand, then,' said Mannering, 'that this was the author of the serenade at Mervyn
Hall?'

There was something in this allusive change of epithet that gave Julia a little more courage.
'He was indeed, sir; and if I am very wrong, as I have often thought, I have some apology.'

'And what is that?' answered the Colonel, speaking quick, and with something of harshness.

'I will not venture to name it, sir; but (she opened a small cabinet, and put some letters
into his hands) I will give you these, that you may see how this intimacy began, and by whom
it was encouraged.'

Mannering took the packet to the window--his pride forbade a more distant retreat. He glanced
at some passages of the letters with an unsteady eye and an agitated mind; his stoicism, however,
came in time to his aid--that philosophy which, rooted in pride, yet frequently bears the fruits
of virtue. He returned towards his daughter with as firm an air as his feelings permitted him
to assume.

'There is great apology for you, Julia, as far as I can judge from a glance at these letters;
you have obeyed at least one parent. Let us adopt a Scotch proverb the Dominie quoted the other
day-- "Let bygones be bygones, and fair play for the future." I will never upbraid you with
your past want of confidence; do you judge of my future intentions by my actions, of which
hitherto you have surely had no reason to complain. Keep these letters; they were never intended
for my eye, and I would not willingly read more of them than I have done, at your desire and
for your exculpation. And now, are we friends? Or rather, do you understand me?'

'O, my dear, generous father,' said Julia, throwing herself into his arms, 'why have I ever
for an instant misunderstood you?'

'No more of that, Julia,' said the Colonel; 'we have both been to blame. He that is too proud
to vindicate the affection and confidence which he conceives should be given without solicitation,
must meet much, and perhaps deserved, disappointment. It is enough that one dearest and most
regretted member of my family has gone to the grave without knowing me; let me not lose the
confidence of a child who ought to love me if she really loves herself.'

'O, no danger, no fear!' answered Julia; 'let me but have your approbation and my own, and
there is no rule you can prescribe so severe that I will not follow.'

'Well, my love,' kissing her forehead, 'I trust we shall not call upon you for anything too
heroic. With respect to this young gentleman's addresses, I expect in the first place that
all clandestine correspondence, which no young woman can entertain for a moment without lessening
herself in her own eyes and in those of her lover--I request, I say, that clandestine correspondence
of every kind may be given up, and that you will refer Mr. Bertram to me for the reason. You
will naturally wish to know what is to be the issue of such a reference. In the first place,
I desire to observe this young gentleman's character more closely than circumstances, and perhaps
my own prejudices, have permitted formerly. I should also be glad to see his birth established.
Not that I am anxious about his getting the estate of Ellangowan, though such a subject is
held in absolute indifference nowhere except in a novel; but certainly Henry Bertram, heir
of Ellangowan, whether possessed of the property of his ancestors or not, is a very different
person from Vanbeest Brown, the son of nobody at all. His fathers, Mr. Pleydell tells me, are
distinguished in history as following the banners of their native princes, while our own fought
at Cressy and Poictiers. In short, I neither give nor withhold my approbation, but I expect
you will redeem past errors; and, as you can now unfortunately only have recourse to ONE parent,
that you will show the duty of a child by reposing that confidence in me which I will say my
inclination to make you happy renders a filial debt upon your part.'

The first part of this speech affected Julia a good deal, the comparative merit of the ancestors
of the Bertrams and Mannerings excited a secret smile, but the conclusion was such as to soften
a heart peculiarly open to the feelings of generosity. 'No, my dear sir,' she said, extending
her hand,' receive my faith, that from this moment you shall be the first person consulted
respecting what shall pass in future between Brown--I mean Bertram--and me; and that no engagement
shall be undertaken by me excepting what you shall immediately know and approve of. May I ask
if Mr. Bertram is to continue a guest at Woodbourne?'

'Certainly,' said the Colonel, 'while his affairs render it advisable.'

'Then, sir, you must be sensible, considering what is already past, that he will expect some
reason for my withdrawing, I believe I must say the encouragement, which he may think I have
given.'

'I expect, Julia,' answered Mannering, 'that he will respect my roof, and entertain some sense
perhaps of the services I am desirous to render him, and so will not insist upon any course
of conduct of which I might have reason to complain; and I expect of you that you will make
him sensible of what is due to both.'

'Then, sir, I understand you, and you shall be implicitly obeyed.'

'Thank you, my love; my anxiety (kissing her) is on your account. Now wipe these witnesses
from your eyes, and so to breakfast.'

CHAPTER LII

          And Sheriff I will engage my word to you,
          That I will by to morrow dinner time,
          Send him to answer thee or any man,
          For anything he shall be charged withal

          Henry IV Part I

When the several by-plays, as they may be termed, had taken place among the individuals of
the Woodbourne family, as we have intimated in the preceding chapter, the breakfast party at
length assembled, Dandie excepted, who had consulted his taste in viands, and perhaps in society,
by partaking of a cup of tea with Mrs. Allan, just laced with two teaspoonfuls of cogniac,
and reinforced with various slices from a huge round of beef. He had a kind of feeling that
he could eat twice as much, and speak twice as much, with this good dame and Barnes as with
the grand folk in the parlour. Indeed, the meal of this less distinguished party was much more
mirthful than that in the higher circle, where there was an obvious air of constraint on the
greater part of the assistants. Julia dared not raise her voice in asking Bertram if he chose
another cup of tea. Bertram felt embarrassed while eating his toast and butter under the eye
of Mannering. Lucy, while she indulged to the uttermost her affection for her recovered brother,
began to think of the quarrel betwixt him and Hazlewood. The Colonel felt the painful anxiety
natural to a proud mind when it deems its slightest action subject for a moment to the watchful
construction of others. The Lawyer, while sedulously buttering his roll, had an aspect of unwonted
gravity, arising perhaps from the severity of his morning studies. As for the Dominie, his
state of mind was ecstatic! He looked at Bertram--he looked at Lucy--he whimpered--he sniggled--he
grinned--he committed all manner of solecisms in point of form: poured the whole cream (no
unlucky mistake) upon the plate of porridge which was his own usual breakfast, threw the slops
of what he called his 'crowning dish of tea' into the sugar-dish instead of the slop-basin,
and concluded with spilling the scalding liquor upon old Plato, the Colonel's favourite spaniel,
who received the libation with a howl that did little honour to his philosophy.

The Colonel's equanimity was rather shaken by this last blunder. 'Upon my word, my good friend,
Mr. Sampson, you forget the difference between Plato and Zenocrates.'

'The former was chief of the Academics, the latter of the Stoics,' said the Dominie, with some
scorn of the supposition.

'Yes, my dear sir, but it was Zenocrates, not Plato, who denied that pain was an evil.'

'I should have thought,' said Pleydell, 'that very respectable quadruped which is just now
limping out of the room upon three of his four legs was rather of the Cynic school.'

'Very well hit off. But here comes an answer from Mac-Morlan.'

It was unfavourable. Mrs. Mac-Morlan sent her respectful compliments, and her husband had been,
and was, detained by some alarming disturbances which had taken place the preceding night at
Portanferry, and the necessary investigation which they had occasioned.

'What's to be done now. Counsellor?' said the Colonel to Pleydell.

'Why, I wish we could have seen Mac-Morlan,' said the Counsellor, 'who is a sensible fellow
himself, and would besides have acted under my advice. But there is little harm. Our friend
here must be made sui juris. He is at present an escaped prisoner, the law has an awkward claim
upon him; he must be placed rectus in curia, that is the first object; for which purpose, Colonel,
I will accompany you in your carriage down to Hazlewood House. The distance is not great; we
will offer our bail, and I am confident I can easily show Mr.--I beg his pardon--Sir Robert
Hazlewood, the necessity of receiving it.'

'With all my heart,' said the Colonel; and, ringing the bell, gave the necessary orders. 'And
what is next to be done?'

'We must get hold of Mac-Morlan, and look out for more proof.'

'Proof!' said the Colonel, 'the thing is as clear as daylight: here are Mr. Sampson and Miss
Bertram, and you yourself at once recognise the young gentleman as his father's image; and
he himself recollects all the very peculiar circumstances preceding his leaving this country.
What else is necessary to conviction?'

'To moral conviction nothing more, perhaps,' said the experienced lawyer, 'but for legal proof
a great deal. Mr. Bertram's recollections are his own recollections merely, and therefore are
not evidence in his own favour. Miss Bertram, the learned Mr. Sampson, and I can only say,
what every one who knew the late Ellangowan will readily agree in, that this gentleman is his
very picture. But that will not make him Ellangowan's son and give him the estate.'

'And what will do so?' said the Colonel.

'Why, we must have a distinct probation. There are these gipsies; but then, alas! they are
almost infamous in the eye of law, scarce capable of bearing evidence, and Meg Merrilies utterly
so, by the various accounts which she formerly gave of the matter, and her impudent denial
of all knowledge of the fact when I myself examined her respecting it.'

'What must be done then?' asked Mannering.

'We must try,' answered the legal sage, 'what proof can be got at in Holland among the persons
by whom our young friend was educated. But then the fear of being called in question for the
murder of the gauger may make them silent; or, if they speak, they are either foreigners or
outlawed smugglers. In short, I see doubts.'

'Under favour, most learned and honoured sir,' said the Dominie, 'I trust HE who hath restored
little Harry Bertram to his friends will not leave His own work imperfect.'

'I trust so too, Mr. Sampson,' said Pleydell; 'but we must use the means; and I am afraid we
shall have more difficulty in procuring them than I at first thought. But a faint heart never
won a fair lady; and, by the way (apart to Miss Mannering, while Bertram was engaged with his
sister), there's a vindication of Holland for you! What smart fellows do you think Leyden and
Utrecht must send forth, when such a very genteel and handsome young man comes from the paltry
schools of Middleburgh?'

'Of a verity,' said the Dominie, jealous of the reputation of the Dutch seminary--'of a verity,
Mr. Pleydell, but I make it known to you that I myself laid the foundation of his education.'

'True, my dear Dominie,' answered the Advocate, 'that accounts for his proficiency in the graces,
without question. But here comes your carriage, Colonel. Adieu, young folks. Miss Julia, keep
your heart till I come back again; let there be nothing done to prejudice my right whilst I
am non valens agere.'

Their reception at Hazlewood House was more cold and formal than usual; for in general the
Baronet expressed great respect for Colonel Mannering, and Mr. Pleydell, besides being a man
of good family and of high general estimation, was Sir Robert's old friend. But now he seemed
dry and embarrassed in his manner. 'He would willingly,' he said, 'receive bail, notwithstanding
that the offence had been directly perpetrated, committed, and done against young Hazlewood
of Hazlewood; but the young man had given himself a fictitious description, and was altogether
that sort of person who should not be liberated, discharged, or let loose upon society; and
therefore--'

'I hope, Sir Robert Hazlewood,' said the Colonel, 'you do not mean to doubt my word when I
assure you that he served under me as cadet in India?'

'By no means or account whatsoever. But you call him a cadet; now he says, avers, and upholds
that he was a captain, or held a troop in your regiment.'

'He was promoted since I gave up the command.'

'But you must have heard of it?'

'No. I returned on account of family circumstances from India, and have not since been solicitous
to hear particular news from the regiment; the name of Brown, too, is so common that I might
have seen his promotion in the "Gazette" without noticing it. But a day or two will bring letters
from his commanding officer.'

'But I am told and informed, Mr. Pleydell,' answered Sir Robert, still hesitating, 'that he
does not mean to abide by this name of Brown, but is to set up a claim to the estate of Ellangowan,
under the name of Bertram.'

'Ay, who says that?' said the Counsellor.

'Or,' demanded the soldier, 'whoever says so, does that give a right to keep him in prison?'

'Hush, Colonel,' said the Lawyer; 'I am sure you would not, any more than I, countenance him
if he prove an impostor. And, among friends, who informed you of this, Sir Robert?'

'Why, a person, Mr. Pleydell,' answered the Baronet, 'who is peculiarly interested in investigating,
sifting, and clearing out this business to the bottom; you will excuse my being more particular.'

'O, certainly,' replied Pleydell; 'well, and he says--?'

'He says that it is whispered about among tinkers, gipsies, and other idle persons that there
is such a plan as I mentioned to you, and that this young man, who is a bastard or natural
son of the late Ellangowan, is pitched upon as the impostor from his strong family likeness.'

'And was there such a natural son, Sir Robert?' demanded the Counsellor.

'O, certainly, to my own positive knowledge. Ellangowan had him placed as cabin-boy or powder-monkey
on board an armed sloop or yacht belonging to the revenue, through the interest of the late
Commissioner Bertram, a kinsman of his own.'

'Well, Sir Robert,' said the Lawyer, taking the word out of the mouth of the impatient soldier,
'you have told me news. I shall investigate them, and if I find them true, certainly Colonel
Mannering and I will not countenance this young man. In the meanwhile, as we are all willing
to make him forthcoming to answer all complaints against him, I do assure you, you will act
most illegally, and incur heavy responsibility, if you refuse our bail.'

'Why, Mr. Pleydell,' said Sir Robert, who knew the high authority of the Counsellor's opinion,
'as you must know best, and as you promise to give up this young man--'

'If he proves an impostor,' replied the Lawyer, with some emphasis.

'Ay, certainly. Under that condition I will take your bail; though I must say an obliging,
well-disposed, and civil neighbour of mine, who was himself bred to the law, gave me a hint
or caution this morning against doing so. It was from him I learned that this youth was liberated
and had come abroad, or rather had broken prison. But where shall we find one to draw the bail-bond?'

'Here,' said the Counsellor, applying himself to the bell, 'send up my clerk, Mr. Driver; it
will not do my character harm if I dictate the needful myself.' It was written accordingly
and signed, and, the Justice having subscribed a regular warrant for Bertram alias Brown's
discharge, the visitors took their leave.

Each threw himself into his own corner of the post-chariot, and said nothing for some time.
The Colonel first broke silence: 'So you intend to give up this poor young fellow at the first
brush?'

'Who, I?' replied the Counsellor. 'I will not give up one hair of his head, though I should
follow them to the court of last resort in his behalf; but what signified mooting points and
showing one's hand to that old ass? Much better he should report to his prompter, Glossin,
that we are indifferent or lukewarm in the matter. Besides, I wished to have a peep at the
enemies' game.'

'Indeed!' said the soldier. 'Then I see there are stratagems in law as well as war. Well, and
how do you like their line of battle?'

'Ingenious,' said Mr. Pleydell, 'but I think desperate; they are finessing too much, a common
fault on such occasions.'

During this discourse the carriage rolled rapidly towards Woodbourne without anything occurring
worthy of the reader's notice, excepting their meeting with young Hazlewood, to whom the Colonel
told the extraordinary history of Bertram's reappearance, which he heard with high delight,
and then rode on before to pay Miss Bertram his compliments on an event so happy and so unexpected.

We return to the party at Woodbourne. After the departure of Mannering, the conversation related
chiefly to the fortunes of the Ellangowan family, their domains, and their former power. 'It
was, then, under the towers of my fathers,' said Bertram, 'that I landed some days since, in
circumstances much resembling those of a vagabond! Its mouldering turrets and darksome arches
even then awakened thoughts of the deepest interest, and recollections which I was unable to
decipher. I will now visit them again with other feelings, and, I trust, other and better hopes.'

'Do not go there now,' said his sister. 'The house of our ancestors is at present the habitation
of a wretch as insidious as dangerous, whose arts and villainy accomplished the ruin and broke
the heart of our unhappy father.'

'You increase my anxiety,' replied her brother, 'to confront this miscreant, even in the den
he has constructed for himself; I think I have seen him.'

'But you must consider,' said Julia, 'that you are now left under Lucy's guard and mine, and
are responsible to us for all your motions, consider, I have not been a lawyer's mistress twelve
hours for nothing, and I assure you it would be madness to attempt to go to Ellangowan just
now. The utmost to which I can consent is, that we shall walk in a body to the head of the
Woodbourne avenue, and from that perhaps we may indulge you with our company as far as a rising
ground in the common, whence your eyes may be blessed with a distant prospect of those gloomy
towers which struck so strongly your sympathetic imagination.'

The party was speedily agreed upon; and the ladies, having taken their cloaks, followed the
route proposed, under the escort of Captain Bertram. It was a pleasant winter morning, and
the cool breeze served only to freshen, not to chill, the fair walkers. A secret though unacknowledged
bond of kindness combined the two ladies, and Bertram, now hearing the interesting accounts
of his own family, now communicating his adventures in Europe and in India, repaid the pleasure
which he received. Lucy felt proud of her brother, as well from the bold and manly turn of
his sentiments as from the dangers he had encountered, and the spirit with which he had surmounted
them. And Julia, while she pondered on her father's words, could not help entertaining hopes
that the independent spirit which had seemed to her father presumption in the humble and plebeian
Brown would have the grace of courage, noble bearing, and high blood in the far-descended heir
of Ellangowan.

They reached at length the little eminence or knoll upon the highest part of the common, called
Gibbie's Knowe--a spot repeatedly mentioned in this history as being on the skirts of the Ellangowan
estate. It commanded a fair variety of hill and dale, bordered with natural woods, whose naked
boughs at this season relieved the general colour of the landscape with a dark purple hue;
while in other places the prospect was more formally intersected by lines of plantation, where
the Scotch firs displayed their variety of dusky green. At the distance of two or three miles
lay the bay of Ellangowan, its waves rippling under the influence of the western breeze. The
towers of the ruined castle, seen high over every object in the neighbourhood, received a brighter
colouring from the wintry sun.

'There,' said Lucy Bertram, pointing them out in the distance, 'there is the seat of our ancestors.
God knows, my dear brother, I do not covet in your behalf the extensive power which the lords
of these ruins are said to have possessed so long, and sometimes to have used so ill. But,
O that I might see you in possession of such relics of their fortune as should give you an
honourable independence, and enable you to stretch your hand for the protection of the old
and destitute dependents of our family, whom our poor father's death--'

'True, my dearest Lucy,' answered the young heir of Ellangowan; 'and I trust, with the assistance
of Heaven, which has so far guided us, and with that of these good friends, whom their own
generous hearts have interested in my behalf, such a consummation of my hard adventures is
now not unlikely. But as a soldier I must look with some interest upon that worm-eaten hold
of ragged stone; and if this undermining scoundrel who is now in possession dare to displace
a pebble of it--'

He was here interrupted by Dinmont, who came hastily after them up the road, unseen till he
was near the party: 'Captain, Captain! ye're wanted. Ye're wanted by her ye ken o'.'

And immediately Meg Merrilies, as if emerging out of the earth, ascended from the hollow way
and stood before them. 'I sought ye at the house,' she said, 'and found but him (pointing to
Dinmont). But ye are right, and I was wrang; it is HERE we should meet, on this very spot,
where my eyes last saw your father. Remember your promise and follow me.'

CHAPTER LIII

     To hail the king in seemly sort
      The ladie was full fain,
     But King Arthur, all sore amazed,
      No answer made again
     'What wight art thou,' the ladie said,
      'That will not speak to me?
     Sir, I may chance to ease thy pain,
      Though I be foul to see'

          The Marriage of Sir Gawaine.

The fairy bride of Sir Gawaine, while under the influence of the spell of her wicked step-mother,
was more decrepit probably, and what is commonly called more ugly, than Meg Merrilies; but
I doubt if she possessed that wild sublimity which an excited imagination communicated to features
marked and expressive in their own peculiar character, and to the gestures of a form which,
her sex considered, might be termed gigantic. Accordingly, the Knights of the Round Table did
not recoil with more terror from the apparition of the loathly lady placed between 'an oak
and a green holly,' than Lucy Bertram and Julia Mannering did from the appearance of this Galwegian
sibyl upon the common of Ellangowan.

'For God's sake,' said Julia, pulling out her purse, 'give that dreadful woman something and
bid her go away.'

'I cannot,' said Bertram; 'I must not offend her.'

'What keeps you here?' said Meg, exalting the harsh and rough tones of her hollow voice. 'Why
do you not follow? Must your hour call you twice? Do you remember your oath? "Were it at kirk
or market, wedding or burial,"'--and she held high her skinny forefinger in a menacing attitude.

Bertram--turned round to his terrified companions. 'Excuse me for a moment; I am engaged by
a promise to follow this woman.'

'Good Heavens! engaged to a madwoman?' said Julia.

'Or to a gipsy, who has her band in the wood ready to murder you!' said Lucy.

'That was not spoken like a bairn of Ellangowan,' said Meg, frowning upon Miss Bertram. 'It
is the ill-doers are ill- dreaders.'

'In short, I must go,' said Bertram, 'it is absolutely necessary; wait for me five minutes
on this spot.'

'Five minutes?' said the gipsy, 'five hours may not bring you here again.'

'Do you hear that?' said Julia; 'for Heaven's sake do not go!'

'I must, I must; Mr. Dinmont will protect you back to the house.'

'No,' said Meg, 'he must come with you; it is for that he is here. He maun take part wi' hand
and heart; and weel his part it is, for redding his quarrel might have cost you dear.'

'Troth, Luckie, it's very true,' said the steady farmer; 'and ere I turn back frae the Captain's
side I'll show that I haena forgotten 't.'

'O yes,' exclaimed both the ladies at once, 'let Mr. Dinmont go with you, if go you must, on
this strange summons.'

'Indeed I must,' answered Bertram; 'but you see I am safely guarded. Adieu for a short time;
go home as fast as you can.'

He pressed his sister's hand, and took a yet more affectionate farewell of Julia with his eyes.
Almost stupefied with surprise and fear, the young ladies watched with anxious looks the course
of Bertram, his companion, and their extraordinary guide. Her tall figure moved across the
wintry heath with steps so swift, so long, and so steady that she appeared rather to glide
than to walk. Bertram and Dinmont, both tall men, apparently scarce equalled her in height,
owing to her longer dress and high head-gear. She proceeded straight across the common, without
turning aside to the winding path by which passengers avoided the inequalities and little rills
that traversed it in different directions. Thus the diminishing figures often disappeared from
the eye, as they dived into such broken ground, and again ascended to sight when they were
past the hollow. There was something frightful and unearthly, as it were, in the rapid and
undeviating course which she pursued, undeterred by any of the impediments which usually incline
a traveller from the direct path. Her way was as straight, and nearly as swift, as that of
a bird through the air. At length they reached those thickets of natural wood which extended
from the skirts of the common towards the glades and brook of Derncleugh, and were there lost
to the view.

'This is very extraordinary,' said Lucy after a pause, and turning round to her companion;
'what can he have to do with that old hag?'

'It is very frightful,' answered Julia, 'and almost reminds me of the tales of sorceresses,
witches, and evil genii which I have heard in India. They believe there in a fascination of
the eye by which those who possess it control the will and dictate the motions of their victims.
What can your brother have in common with that fearful woman that he should leave us, obviously
against his will, to attend to her commands?'

'At least,' said Lucy, 'we may hold him safe from harm; for she would never have summoned that
faithful creature Dinmont, of whose strength, courage, and steadiness Henry said so much, to
attend upon an expedition where she projected evil to the person of his friend. And now let
us go back to the house till the Colonel returns. Perhaps Bertram may be back first; at any
rate, the Colonel will judge what is to be done.'

Leaning, then, upon each other's arm, but yet occasionally stumbling, between fear and the
disorder of their nerves, they at length reached the head of the avenue, when they heard the
tread of a horse behind. They started, for their ears were awake to every sound, and beheld
to their great pleasure young Hazlewood. 'The Colonel will be here immediately,' he said; 'I
galloped on before to pay my respects to Miss Bertram, with the sincerest congratulations upon
the joyful event which has taken place in her family. I long to be introduced to Captain Bertram,
and to thank him for the well-deserved lesson he gave to my rashness and indiscretion.'

'He has left us just now,' said Lucy, 'and in a manner that has frightened us very much.'

Just at that moment the Colonel's carriage drove up, and, on observing the ladies, stopped,
while Mannering and his learned counsel alighted and joined them. They instantly communicated
the new cause of alarm.

'Meg Merrilies again!' said the Colonel. 'She certainly is a most mysterious and unaccountable
personage; but I think she must have something to impart to Bertram to which she does not mean
we should be privy.'

'The devil take the bedlamite old woman,' said the Counsellor; 'will she not let things take
their course, prout de lege, but must always be putting in her oar in her own way? Then I fear
from the direction they took they are going upon the Ellangowan estate. That rascal Glossin
has shown us what ruffians he has at his disposal; I wish honest Liddesdale maybe guard sufficient.'

'If you please,' said Hazlewood, 'I should be most happy to ride in the direction which they
have taken. I am so well known in the country that I scarce think any outrage will be offered
in my presence, and I shall keep at such a cautious distance as not to appear to watch Meg,
or interrupt any communication which she may make.'

'Upon my word,' said Pleydell (aside), 'to be a sprig whom I remember with a whey face and
a satchel not so very many years ago, I think young Hazlewood grows a fine fellow. I am more
afraid of a new attempt at legal oppression than at open violence, and from that this young
man's presence would deter both Glossin and his understrappers.--Hie away then, my boy; peer
out--peer out, you'll find them somewhere about Derncleugh, or very probably in Warroch wood.'

Hazlewood turned his horse. 'Come back to us to dinner, Hazlewood,' cried the Colonel. He bowed,
spurred his horse, and galloped off.

We now return to Bertram and Dinmont, who continued to follow their mysterious guide through
the woods and dingles between the open common and the ruined hamlet of Derncleugh. As she led
the way she never looked back upon her followers, unless to chide them for loitering, though
the sweat, in spite of the season, poured from their brows. At other times she spoke to herself
in such broken expressions as these: 'It is to rebuild the auld house, it is to lay the corner-stone;
and did I not warn him? I tell'd him I was born to do it, if my father's head had been the
stepping- stane, let alane his. I was doomed--still I kept my purpose in the cage and in the
stocks; I was banished--I kept it in an unco land; I was scourged, I was branded--my resolution
lay deeper than scourge or red iron could reach;--and now the hour is come.'

'Captain,' said Dinmont, in a half whisper, 'I wish she binna uncanny! her words dinna seem
to come in God's name, or like other folks'. Od, they threep in our country that there ARE
sic things.'

'Don't be afraid, my friend,' whispered Bertram in return.

'Fear'd! fient a haet care I,' said the dauntless farmer; 'be she witch or deevil, it's a'
ane to Dandie Dinmont.'

'Haud your peace, gudeman,' said Meg, looking sternly over her shoulder; 'is this a time or
place for you to speak, think ye?'

'But, my good friend,' said Bertram, 'as I have no doubt in your good faith or kindness, which
I have experienced, you should in return have some confidence in me; I wish to know where you
are leading us.'

'There's but ae answer to that, Henry Bertram,' said the sibyl. 'I swore my tongue should never
tell, but I never said my finger should never show. Go on and meet your fortune, or turn back
and lose it: that's a' I hae to say.'

'Go on then,' answered Bertram; 'I will ask no more questions.'

They descended into the glen about the same place where Meg had formerly parted from Bertram.
She paused an instant beneath the tall rock where he had witnessed the burial of a dead body
and stamped upon the ground, which, notwithstanding all the care that had been taken, showed
vestiges of having been recently moved. 'Here rests ane,' she said; 'he'll maybe hae neibours
sune.'

She then moved up the brook until she came to the ruined hamlet, where, pausing with a look
of peculiar and softened interest before one of the gables which was still standing, she said
in a tone less abrupt, though as solemn as before, 'Do you see that blackit and broken end
of a sheeling? There my kettle boiled for forty years; there I bore twelve buirdly sons and
daughters. Where are they now? where are the leaves that were on that auld ash tree at Martinmas!
The west wind has made it bare; and I'm stripped too. Do you see that saugh tree? it's but
a blackened rotten stump now. I've sate under it mony a bonnie summer afternoon, when it hung
its gay garlands ower the poppling water. I've sat there, and,' elevating her voice, 'I've
held you on my knee, Henry Bertram, and sung ye sangs of the auld barons and their bloody wars.
It will ne'er be green again, and Meg Merrilies will never sing sangs mair, be they blythe
or sad. But ye'll no forget her, and ye'll gar big up the auld wa's for her sake? And let somebody
live there that's ower gude to fear them of another warld. For if ever the dead came back amang
the living, I'll be seen in this glen mony a night after these crazed banes are in the mould.'

The mixture of insanity and wild pathos with which she spoke these last words, with her right
arm bare and extended, her left bent and shrouded beneath the dark red drapery of her mantle,
might have been a study worthy of our Siddons herself. 'And now,' she said, resuming at once
the short, stern, and hasty tone which was most ordinary to her, 'let us to the wark, let us
to the wark.'

She then led the way to the promontory on which the Kaim of Derncleugh was situated, produced
a large key from her pocket, and unlocked the door. The interior of this place was in better
order than formerly. 'I have made things decent,' she said; 'I may be streekit here or night.
There will be few, few at Meg's lykewake, for mony of our folk will blame what I hae done,
and am to do!'

She then pointed to a table, upon which was some cold meat, arranged with more attention to
neatness than could have been expected from Meg's habits. 'Eat,' she said--'eat; ye'll need
it this night yet.'

Bertram, in complaisance, eat a morsel or two; and Dinmont, whose appetite was unabated either
by wonder, apprehension, or the meal of the morning, made his usual figure as a trencherman.
She then offered each a single glass of spirits, which Bertram drank diluted, and his companion
plain.

'Will ye taste naething yoursell, Luckie?' said Dinmont.

'I shall not need it,' replied their mysterious hostess. 'And now,' she said, 'ye maun hae
arms: ye maunna gang on dry-handed; but use them not rashly. Take captive, but save life; let
the law hae its ain. He maun speak ere he die.'

'Who is to be taken? who is to speak?' said Bertram, in astonishment, receiving a pair of pistols
which she offered him, and which, upon examining, he found loaded and locked.

'The flints are gude,' she said, 'and the powder dry; I ken this wark weel.'

Then, without answering his questions, she armed Dinmont also with a large pistol, and desired
them to choose sticks for themselves out of a parcel of very suspicious-looking bludgeons which
she brought from a corner. Bertram took a stout sapling, and Dandie selected a club which might
have served Hercules himself. They then left the hut together, and in doing so Bertram took
an opportunity to whisper to Dinmont, 'There's something inexplicable in all this. But we need
not use these arms unless we see necessity and lawful occasion; take care to do as you see me do.'

Dinmont gave a sagacious nod, and they continued to follow, over wet and over dry, through
bog and through fallow, the footsteps of their conductress. She guided them to the wood of
Warroch by the same track which the late Ellangowan had used when riding to Derncleugh in quest
of his child on the miserable evening of Kennedy's murder.

When Meg Merrilies had attained these groves, through which the wintry sea-wind was now whistling
hoarse and shrill, she seemed to pause a moment as if to recollect the way. 'We maun go the
precise track,' she said, and continued to go forward, but rather in a zigzag and involved
course than according to her former steady and direct line of motion. At length she guided
them through the mazes of the wood to a little open glade of about a quarter of an acre, surrounded
by trees and bushes, which made a wild and irregular boundary. Even in winter it was a sheltered
and snugly sequestered spot; but when arrayed in the verdure of spring, the earth sending forth
all its wild flowers, the shrubs spreading their waste of blossom around it, and the weeping
birches, which towered over the underwood, drooping their long and leafy fibres to intercept
the sun, it must have seemed a place for a youthful poet to study his earliest sonnet, or a
pair of lovers to exchange their first mutual avowal of affection. Apparently it now awakened
very different recollections. Bertram's brow, when he had looked round the spot, became gloomy
and embarrassed. Meg, after uttering to herself, 'This is the very spot!' looked at him with
a ghastly side-glance--'D'ye mind it?'

'Yes!' answered Bertram, 'imperfectly I do.'

'Ay!' pursued his guide, 'on this very spot the man fell from his horse. I was behind that
bourtree bush at the very moment. Sair, sair he strove, and sair he cried for mercy; but he
was in the hands of them that never kenn'd the word! Now will I show you the further track;
the last time ye travelled it was in these arms.'

She led them accordingly by a long and winding passage, almost overgrown with brushwood, until,
without any very perceptible descent, they suddenly found themselves by the seaside. Meg then
walked very fast on between the surf and the rocks, until she came to a remarkable fragment
of rock detached from the rest. 'Here,' she said in a low and scarcely audible whisper--'here
the corpse was found.'

'And the cave,' said Bertram, in the same tone, 'is close beside it; are you guiding us there?'

'Yes,' said the gipsy in a decided tone. 'Bend up both your hearts; follow me as I creep in;
I have placed the fire-wood so as to screen you. Bide behind it for a gliff till I say, "The
hour and the man are baith come"; then rin in on him, take his arms, and bind him till the
blood burst frae his finger nails.'

'I will, by my soul,' said Henry, 'if he is the man I suppose-- Jansen?'

'Ay, Jansen, Hatteraick, and twenty mair names are his.'

'Dinmont, you must stand by me now,' said Bertram, 'for this fellow is a devil.'

'Ye needna doubt that,' said the stout yeoman; 'but I wish I could mind a bit prayer or I creep
after the witch into that hole that she's opening. It wad be a sair thing to leave the blessed
sun and the free air, and gang and be killed like a tod that's run to earth, in a dungeon like
that. But, my sooth, they will be hard- bitten terriers will worry Dandie; so, as I said, deil
hae me if I baulk you.' This was uttered in the lowest tone of voice possible. The entrance
was now open. Meg crept in upon her hands and knees, Bertram followed, and Dinmont, after giving
a rueful glance toward the daylight, whose blessings he was abandoning, brought up the rear.

CHAPTER LIV

     Die, prophet! in thy speech;
     For this, among the rest, was I ordained.

          Henry VI. Part III.

The progress of the Borderer, who, as we have said, was the last of the party, was fearfully
arrested by a hand, which caught hold of his leg as he dragged his long limbs after him in
silence and perturbation through the low and narrow entrance of the subterranean passage. The
steel heart of the bold yeoman had well- nigh given way, and he suppressed with difficulty
a shout, which, in the defenceless posture and situation which they then occupied, might have
cost all their lives. He contented himself, however, with extricating his foot from the grasp
of this unexpected follower. 'Be still,' said a voice behind him, releasing him; 'I am a friend--Charles
Hazlewood.'

These words were uttered in a very low voice, but they produced sound enough to startle Meg
Merrilies, who led the van, and who, having already gained the place where the cavern expanded,
had risen upon her feet. She began, as if to confound any listening ear, to growl, to mutter,
and to sing aloud, and at the same time to make a bustle among some brushwood which was now
heaped in the cave.

'Here, beldam, deyvil's kind,' growled the harsh voice of Dirk Hatteraick from the inside of
his den, 'what makest thou there?'

'Laying the roughies to keep the cauld wind frae you, ye desperate do-nae-good. Ye're e'en
ower weel off, and wotsna; it will be otherwise soon.'

'Have you brought me the brandy, and any news of my people?' said Dirk Hatteraick.

'There's the flask for ye. Your people--dispersed, broken, gone, or cut to ribbands by the
redcoats.'

'Der deyvil! this coast is fatal to me.'

'Ye may hae mair reason to say sae.'

While this dialogue went forward, Bertram and Dinmont had both gained the interior of the cave
and assumed an erect position. The only light which illuminated its rugged and sable precincts
was a quantity of wood burnt to charcoal in an iron grate, such as they use in spearing salmon
by night. On these red embers Hatteraick from time to time threw a handful of twigs or splintered
wood; but these, even when they blazed up, afforded a light much disproportioned to the extent
of the cavern; and, as its principal inhabitant lay upon the side of the grate most remote
from the entrance, it was not easy for him to discover distinctly objects which lay in that
direction. The intruders, therefore, whose number was now augmented unexpectedly to three,
stood behind the loosely-piled branches with little risk of discovery. Dinmont had the sense
to keep back Hazlewood with one hand till he whispered to Bertram, 'A friend--young Hazlewood.'

It was no time for following up the introduction, and they all stood as still as the rocks
around them, obscured behind the pile of brushwood, which had been probably placed there to
break the cold wind from the sea, without totally intercepting the supply of air. The branches
were laid so loosely above each other that, looking through them towards the light of the fire-grate,
they could easily discover what passed in its vicinity, although a much stronger degree of
illumination than it afforded would not have enabled the persons placed near the bottom of
the cave to have descried them in the position which they occupied.

The scene, independent of the peculiar moral interest and personal danger which attended it,
had, from the effect of the light and shade on the uncommon objects which it exhibited, an
appearance emphatically dismal. The light in the fire-grate was the dark-red glare of charcoal
in a state of ignition, relieved from time to time by a transient flame of a more vivid or
duskier light, as the fuel with which Dirk Hatteraick fed his fire was better or worse fitted
for his purpose. Now a dark cloud of stifling smoke rose up to the roof of the cavern, and
then lighted into a reluctant and sullen blaze, which flashed wavering up the pillar of smoke,
and was suddenly rendered brighter and more lively by some drier fuel, or perhaps some splintered
fir-timber, which at once converted the smoke into flame. By such fitful irradiation they could
see, more or less distinctly, the form of Hatteraick, whose savage and rugged cast of features,
now rendered yet more ferocious by the circumstances of his situation and the deep gloom of
his mind, assorted well with the rugged and broken vault, which rose in a rude arch over and
around him. The form of Meg Merrilies, which stalked about him, sometimes in the light, sometimes
partially obscured in the smoke or darkness, contrasted strongly with the sitting figure of
Hatteraick as he bent over the flame, and from his stationary posture was constantly visible
to the spectator, while that of the female flitted around, appearing or disappearing like a
spectre.

Bertram felt his blood boil at the sight of Hatteraick. He remembered him well under the name
of Jansen, which the smuggler had adopted after the death of Kennedy; and he remembered also
that this Jansen, and his mate Brown, the same who was shot at Woodbourne, had been the brutal
tyrants of his infancy. Bertram knew farther, from piecing his own imperfect recollections
with the narratives of Mannering and Pleydell, that this man was the prime agent in the act
of violence which tore him from his family and country, and had exposed him to so many distresses
and dangers. A thousand exasperating reflections rose within his bosom; and he could hardly
refrain from rushing upon Hatteraick and blowing his brains out.

At the same time this would have been no safe adventure. The flame, as it rose and fell, while
it displayed the strong, muscular, and broad-chested frame of the ruffian, glanced also upon
two brace of pistols in his belt, and upon the hilt of his cutlass: it was not to be doubted
that his desperation was commensurate with his personal strength and means of resistance. Both,
indeed, were inadequate to encounter the combined power of two such men as Bertram himself
and his friend Dinmont, without reckoning their unexpected assistant Hazlewood, who was unarmed,
and of a slighter make; but Bertram felt, on a moment's reflection, that there would be neither
sense nor valour in anticipating the hangman's office, and he considered the importance of
making Hatteraick prisoner alive. He therefore repressed his indignation, and awaited what
should pass between the ruffian and his gipsy guide.

'And how are ye now?' said the harsh and discordant tones of his female attendant.' Said I
not, it would come upon you--ay, and in this very cave, where ye harboured after the deed?'

'Wetter and sturm, ye hag!' replied Hatteraick, 'keep your deyvil's matins till they're wanted.
Have you seen Glossin?'

'No,' replied Meg Merrilies; 'you've missed your blow, ye blood- spiller! and ye have nothing
to expect from the tempter.'

'Hagel!' exclaimed the ruffian, 'if I had him but by the throat! And what am I to do then?'

'Do?' answered the gipsy; 'die like a man, or be hanged like a dog!'

'Hanged, ye hag of Satan! The hemp's not sown that shall hang me.'

'It's sown, and it's grown, and it's heckled, and it's twisted. Did I not tell ye, when ye
wad take away the boy Harry Bertram, in spite of my prayers,--did I not say he would come back
when he had dree'd his weird in foreign land till his twenty-first year? Did I not say the
auld fire would burn down to a spark, but wad kindle again?'

'Well, mother, you did say so,' said Hatteraick, in a tone that had something of despair in
its accents; 'and, donner and blitzen! I believe you spoke the truth. That younker of Ellangowan
has been a rock ahead to me all my life! And now, with Glossin's cursed contrivance, my crew
have been cut off, my boats destroyed, and I daresay the lugger's taken; there were not men
enough left on board to work her, far less to fight her--a dredge-boat might have taken her.
And what will the owners say? Hagel and sturm! I shall never dare go back again to Flushing.'

'You'll never need,' said the gipsy.

'What are you doing there,' said her companion; 'and what makes you say that?'

During this dialogue Meg was heaping some flax loosely together. Before answer to this question
she dropped a firebrand upon the flax, which had been previously steeped in some spirituous
liquor, for it instantly caught fire and rose in a vivid pyramid of the most brilliant light
up to the very top of the vault. As it ascended Meg answered the ruffian's question in a firm
and steady voice: 'BECAUSE THE HOUR'S COME, AND THE MAN.'

At the appointed signal Bertram and Dinmont sprung over the brushwood and rushed upon Hatteraick.
Hazlewood, unacquainted with their plan of assault, was a moment later. The ruffian, who instantly
saw he was betrayed, turned his first vengeance on Meg Merrilies, at whom he discharged a pistol.
She fell with a piercing and dreadful cry between the shriek of pain and the sound of laughter
when at its highest and most suffocating height. 'I kenn'd it would be this way,' she said.

Bertram, in his haste, slipped his foot upon the uneven rock which floored the cave--a fortunate
stumble, for Hatteraick's second bullet whistled over him with so true and steady an aim that,
had he been standing upright, it must have lodged in his brain. Ere the smuggler could draw
another pistol, Dinmont closed with him, and endeavoured by main force to pinion down his arms.
Such, however, was the wretch's personal strength, joined to the efforts of his despair, that,
in spite of the gigantic force with which the Borderer grappled him, he dragged Dinmont through
the blazing flax, and had almost succeeded in drawing a third pistol, which might have proved
fatal to the honest farmer, had not Bertram, as well as Hazlewood, come to his assistance,
when, by main force, and no ordinary exertion of it, they threw Hatteraick on the ground, disarmed
him, and bound him. This scuffle, though it takes up some time in the narrative, passed in
less than a single minute. When he was fairly mastered, after one or two desperate and almost
convulsionary struggles, the ruffian lay perfectly still and silent. 'He's gaun to die game
ony how,' said Dinmont; 'weel, I like him na the waur for that.'

This observation honest Dandie made while he was shaking the blazing flax from his rough coat
and shaggy black hair, some of which had been singed in the scuffle. 'He is quiet now,' said
Bertram; 'stay by him and do not permit him to stir till I see whether the poor woman be alive
or dead.' With Hazlewood's assistance he raised Meg Merrilies.

'I kenn'd it would be this way,' she muttered, 'and it's e'en this way that it should be.'

The ball had penetrated the breast below the throat. It did not bleed much externally; but
Bertram, accustomed to see gunshot wounds, thought it the more alarming. 'Good God! what shall
we do for this poor woman?' said he to Hazlewood, the circumstances superseding the necessity
of previous explanation or introduction to each other.

'My horse stands tied above in the wood,' said Hazlewood. 'I have been watching you these two
hours. I will ride off for some assistants that may be trusted. Meanwhile, you had better defend
the mouth of the cavern against every one until I return.' He hastened away. Bertram, after
binding Meg Merrilies's wound as well as he could, took station near the mouth of the cave
with a cocked pistol in his hand; Dinmont continued to watch Hatteraick, keeping a grasp like
that of Hercules on his breast. There was a dead silence in the cavern, only interrupted by
the low and suppressed moaning of the wounded female and by the hard breathing of the prisoner.

CHAPTER LV

     For though, seduced and led astray,
       Thoust travell'd far and wander'd long,
     Thy God hath seen thee all the way,
       And all the turns that led thee wrong

          The Hall of Justice.

After the space of about three-quarters of an hour, which the uncertainty and danger of their
situation made seem almost thrice as long, the voice of young Hazlewood was heard without.
'Here I am,' he cried, 'with a sufficient party.'

'Come in then,' answered Bertram, not a little pleased to find his guard relieved. Hazlewood
then entered, followed by two or three countrymen, one of whom acted as a peace-officer. They
lifted Hatteraick up and carried him in their arms as far as the entrance of the vault was
high enough to permit them; then laid him on his back and dragged him along as well as they
could, for no persuasion would induce him to assist the transportation by any exertion of his
own. He lay as silent and inactive in their hands as a dead corpse, incapable of opposing,
but in no way aiding, their operations. When he was dragged into daylight and placed erect
upon his feet among three or four assistants who had remained without the cave, he seemed stupefied
and dazzled by the sudden change from the darkness of his cavern. While others were superintending
the removal of Meg Merrilies, those who remained with Hatteraick attempted to make him sit
down upon a fragment of rock which lay close upon the high-water mark. A strong shuddering
convulsed his iron frame for an instant as he resisted their purpose. 'Not there! Hagel! you
would not make me sit THERE?'

These were the only words he spoke; but their import, and the deep tone of horror in which
they were uttered, served to show what was passing in his mind.

When Meg Merrilies had also been removed from the cavern, with all the care for her safety
that circumstances admitted, they consulted where she should be carried. Hazlewood had sent
for a surgeon, and proposed that she should be lifted in the meantime to the nearest cottage.
But the patient exclaimed with great earnestness, 'Na, na, na! to the Kaim o' Derncleugh--the
Kaim o' Derncleugh; the spirit will not free itself o' the flesh but there.'

'You must indulge her, I believe,' said Bertram; 'her troubled imagination will otherwise aggravate
the fever of the wound.'

They bore her accordingly to the vault. On the way her mind seemed to run more upon the scene
which had just passed than on her own approaching death. 'There were three of them set upon
him: I brought the twasome, but wha was the third? It would be HIMSELL, returned to work his
ain vengeance!'

It was evident that the unexpected appearance of Hazlewood, whose person the outrage of Hatteraick
left her no time to recognise, had produced a strong effect on her imagination. She often recurred
to it. Hazlewood accounted for his unexpected arrival to Bertram by saying that he had kept
them in view for some time by the direction of Mannering; that, observing them disappear into
the cave, he had crept after them, meaning to announce himself and his errand, when his hand
in the darkness encountering the leg of Dinmont had nearly produced a catastrophe, which, indeed,
nothing but the presence of mind and fortitude of the bold yeoman could have averted.

When the gipsy arrived at the hut she produced the key; and when they entered, and were about
to deposit her upon the bed, she said, in an anxious tone, 'Na, na! not that way--the feet
to the east'; and appeared gratified when they reversed her posture accordingly, and placed
her in that appropriate to a dead body.

'Is there no clergyman near,' said Bertram, 'to assist this unhappy woman's devotions?'

A gentleman, the minister of the parish, who had been Charles Hazlewood's tutor, had, with
many others, caught the alarm that the murderer of Kennedy was taken on the spot where the
deed had been done so many years before, and that a woman was mortally wounded. From curiosity,
or rather from the feeling that his duty called him to scenes of distress, this gentleman had
come to the Kaim of Derncleugh, and now presented himself. The surgeon arrived at the same
time, and was about to probe the wound; but Meg resisted the assistance of either. 'It's no
what man can do that will heal my body or save my spirit. Let me speak what I have to say,
and then ye may work your will; I'se be nae hindrance. But where's Henry Bertram?' The assistants,
to whom this name had been long a stranger, gazed upon each other. 'Yes!' she said, in a stronger
and harsher tone, 'I said HENRY BERTRAM OF ELLANGOWAN. Stand from the light and let me see him.'

All eyes were turned towards Bertram, who approached the wretched couch. The wounded woman
took hold of his hand. 'Look at him,' she said, 'all that ever saw his father or his grandfather,
and bear witness if he is not their living image?' A murmur went through the crowd; the resemblance
was too striking to be denied. 'And now hear me; and let that man,' pointing to Hatteraick,
who was seated with his keepers on a sea-chest at some distance--'let him deny what I say if
he can. That is Henry Bertram, son to Godfrey Bertram, umquhile of Ellangowan; that young man
is the very lad- bairn that Dirk Hatteraick carried off from Warroch wood the day that he murdered
the gauger. I was there like a wandering spirit, for I longed to see that wood or we left the
country. I saved the bairn's life, and sair, sair I prigged and prayed they would leave him
wi' me. But they bore him away, and he's been lang ower the sea, and now he's come for his
ain, and what should withstand him? I swore to keep the secret till he was ane-an'-twenty;
I kenn'd he behoved to dree his weird till that day cam. I keepit that oath which I took to
them; but I made another vow to mysell, that if I lived to see the day of his return I would
set him in his father's seat, if every step was on a dead man. I have keepit that oath too.
I will be ae step mysell, he (pointing to Hatteraick) will soon be another, and there will
be ane mair yet.'

The clergyman, now interposing, remarked it was a pity this deposition was not regularly taken
and written down, and the surgeon urged the necessity of examining the wound, previously to
exhausting her by questions. When she saw them removing Hatteraick, in order to clear the room
and leave the surgeon to his operations, she called out aloud, raising herself at the same
time upon the couch, 'Dirk Hatteraick, you and I will never meet again until we are before
the judgment-seat; will ye own to what I have said, or will you dare deny it?' He turned his
hardened brow upon her, with a look of dumb and inflexible defiance. 'Dirk Hatteraick, dare
ye deny, with my blood upon your hands, one word of what my dying breath is uttering?' He looked
at her with the same expression of hardihood and dogged stubbornness, and moved his lips, but
uttered no sound. 'Then fareweel!' she said, 'and God forgive you! your hand has sealed my
evidence. When I was in life I was the mad randy gipsy, that had been scourged and banished
and branded; that had begged from door to door, and been hounded like a stray tyke from parish
to parish; wha would hae minded HER tale? But now I am a dying woman, and my words will not
fall to the ground, any more than the earth will cover my blood!'

She here paused, and all left the hut except the surgeon and two or three women. After a very
short examination he shook his head and resigned his post by the dying woman's side to the
clergyman.

A chaise returning empty to Kippletringan had been stopped on the highroad by a constable,
who foresaw it would be necessary to convey Hatteraick to jail. The driver, understanding what
was going on at Derncleugh, left his horses to the care of a blackguard boy, confiding, it
is to be supposed, rather in the years and discretion of the cattle than in those of their
keeper, and set off full speed to see, as he expressed himself, 'whaten a sort o' fun was gaun
on.' He arrived just as the group of tenants and peasants, whose numbers increased every moment,
satiated with gazing upon the rugged features of Hatteraick, had turned their attention towards
Bertram. Almost all of them, especially the aged men who had seen Ellangowan in his better
days, felt and acknowledged the justice of Meg Merrilies's appeal. But the Scotch are a cautious
people: they remembered there was another in possession of the estate, and they as yet only
expressed their feelings in low whispers to each other. Our friend Jock Jabos, the postilion,
forced his way into the middle of the circle; but no sooner cast his eyes upon Bertram than
he started back in amazement, with a solemn exclamation, 'As sure as there's breath in man,
it's auld Ellangowan arisen from the dead!'

This public declaration of an unprejudiced witness was just the spark wanted to give fire to
the popular feeling, which burst forth in three distinct shouts: 'Bertram for ever!' 'Long
life to the heir of Ellangowan!' 'God send him his ain, and to live among us as his forebears
did of yore!'

'I hae been seventy years on the land,' said one person.

'I and mine hae been seventy and seventy to that,' said another; 'I have a right to ken the
glance of a Bertram.'

'I and mine hae been three hundred years here,' said another old man, 'and I sail sell my last
cow, but I'll see the young Laird placed in his right.'

The women, ever delighted with the marvellous, and not less so when a handsome young man is
the subject of the tale, added their shrill acclamations to the general all-hail. 'Blessings
on him; he's the very picture o' his father! The Bertrams were aye the wale o' the country side!'

'Eh! that his puir mother, that died in grief and in doubt about him, had but lived to see
this day!' exclaimed some female voices.

'But we'll help him to his ain, kimmers,' cried others; 'and before Glossin sail keep the Place
of Ellangowan we'll howk him out o't wi' our nails!'

Others crowded around Dinmont, who was nothing both to tell what he knew of his friend, and
to boast the honour which he had in contributing to the discovery. As he was known to several
of the principal farmers present, his testimony afforded an additional motive to the general
enthusiasm. In short, it was one of those moments of intense feeling when the frost of the
Scottish people melts like a snow-wreath, and the dissolving torrent carries dam and dyke before
it.

The sudden shouts interrupted the devotions of the clergyman; and Meg, who was in one of those
dozing fits of stupefaction that precede the close of existence, suddenly started--'Dinna ye
hear? dinna ye hear? He's owned! he's owned! I lived but for this. I am a sinfu' woman; but
if my curse brought it down, my blessing has taen it off! And now I wad hae liked to hae said
mair. But it canna be. Stay'--she continued, stretching her head towards the gleam of light
that shot through the narrow slit which served for a window--'is he not there? Stand out o'
the light, and let me look upon him ance mair. But the darkness is in my ain een,' she said,
sinking back, after an earnest gaze upon vacuity; 'it's a' ended now,

     Pass breath,
     Come death!'

And, sinking back upon her couch of straw, she expired without a groan. The clergyman and the
surgeon carefully noted down all that she had said, now deeply regretting they had not examined
her more minutely, but both remaining morally convinced of the truth of her disclosure.

Hazlewood was the first to compliment Bertram upon the near prospect of his being restored
to his name and rank in society. The people around, who now learned from Jabos that Bertram
was the person who had wounded him, were struck with his generosity, and added his name to
Bertram's in their exulting acclamations.

Some, however, demanded of the postilion how he had not recognised Bertram when he saw him
some time before at Kippletringan. To which he gave the very natural answer--'Hout, what was
I thinking about Ellangowan then? It was the cry that was rising e'en now that the young Laird
was found, that put me on finding out the likeness. There was nae missing it ance ane was set
to look for't.'

The obduracy of Hatteraick during the latter part of this scene was in some slight degree shaken.
He was observed to twinkle with his eyelids; to attempt to raise his bound hands for the purpose
of pulling his hat over his brow; to look angrily and impatiently to the road, as if anxious
for the vehicle which was to remove him from the spot. At length Mr. Hazlewood, apprehensive
that the popular ferment might take a direction towards the prisoner, directed he should be
taken to the post-chaise, and so removed to the town of Kippletringan, to be at Mr. Mac-Morlan's
disposal; at the same time he sent an express to warn that gentleman of what had happened.
'And now,' he said to Bertram, 'I should be happy if you would accompany me to Hazlewood House;
but as that might not be so agreeable just now as I trust it will be in a day or two, you must
allow me to return with you to Woodbourne. But you are on foot.'--'O, if the young Laird would
take my horse!'--'Or mine'-- 'Or mine,' said half-a-dozen voices.--'Or mine; he can trot ten
mile an hour without whip or spur, and he's the young Laird's frae this moment, if he likes
to take him for a herezeld, [Footnote: See Note 8.] as they ca'd it lang syne.' Bertram readily
accepted the horse as a loan, and poured forth his thanks to the assembled crowd for their
good wishes, which they repaid with shouts and vows of attachment.

While the happy owner was directing one lad to 'gae doun for the new saddle'; another,' just
to rin the beast ower wi' a dry wisp o' strae'; a third, 'to hie doun and borrow Dan Dunkieson's
plated stirrups,' and expressing his regret 'that there was nae time to gie the nag a feed,
that the young Laird might ken his mettle,' Bertram, taking the clergyman by the arm, walked
into the vault and shut the door immediately after them. He gazed in silence for some minutes
upon the body of Meg Merrilies, as it lay before him, with the features sharpened by death,
yet still retaining the stern and energetic character which had maintained in life her superiority
as the wild chieftainess of the lawless people amongst whom she was born. The young soldier
dried the tears which involuntarily rose on viewing this wreck of one who might be said to
have died a victim to her fidelity to his person and family. He then took the clergyman's hand
and asked solemnly if she appeared able to give that attention to his devotions which befitted
a departing person.

'My dear sir,' said the good minister, 'I trust this poor woman had remaining sense to feel
and join in the import of my prayers. But let us humbly hope we are judged of by our opportunities
of religious and moral instruction. In some degree she might be considered as an uninstructed
heathen, even in the bosom of a Christian country; and let us remember that the errors and
vices of an ignorant life were balanced by instances of disinterested attachment, amounting
almost to heroism. To HIM who can alone weigh our crimes and errors against our efforts towards
virtue we consign her with awe, but not without hope.'

'May I request,' said Bertram, 'that you will see every decent solemnity attended to in behalf
of this poor woman? I have some property belonging to her in my hands; at all events I will
be answerable for the expense. You will hear of me at Woodbourne.'

Dinmont, who had been furnished with a horse by one of his acquaintance, now loudly called
out that all was ready for their return; and Bertram and Hazlewood, after a strict exhortation
to the crowd, which was now increased to several hundreds, to preserve good order in their
rejoicing, as the least ungoverned zeal might be turned to the disadvantage of the young Laird,
as they termed him, took their leave amid the shouts of the multitude.

As they rode past the ruined cottages at Derncleugh, Dinmont said, 'I'm sure when ye come to
your ain, Captain, ye'll no forget to bigg a bit cot-house there? Deil be in me but I wad do't
mysell, an it werena in better hands. I wadna like to live in't, though, after what she said.
Od, I wad put in auld Elspeth, the bedral's widow; the like o' them's used wi' graves and ghaists
and thae things.'

A short but brisk ride brought them to Woodbourne. The news of their exploit had already flown
far and wide, and the whole inhabitants of the vicinity met them on the lawn with shouts of
congratulation. 'That you have seen me alive,' said Bertram to Lucy, who first ran up to him,
though Julia's eyes even anticipated hers, 'you must thank these kind friends.'

With a blush expressing at once pleasure, gratitude, and bashfulness, Lucy curtsied to Hazlewood,
but to Dinmont she frankly extended her hand. The honest farmer, in the extravagance of his
joy, carried his freedom farther than the hint warranted, for he imprinted his thanks on the
lady's lips, and was instantly shocked at the rudeness of his own conduct. 'Lord sake, madam,
I ask your pardon,' he said. 'I forgot but ye had been a bairn o' my ain; the Captain's sae
namely, he gars ane forget himsell.'

Old Pleydell now advanced. 'Nay, if fees like these are going,' he said--

'Stop, stop, Mr. Pleydell,' said Julia, 'you had your fees beforehand; remember last night.'

'Why, I do confess a retainer,' said the Barrister; 'but if I don't deserve double fees from
both Miss Bertram and you when I conclude my examination of Dirk Hatteraick to-morrow--Gad,
I will so supple him! You shall see, Colonel; and you, my saucy misses, though you may not
see, shall hear.'

'Ay, that's if we choose to listen, Counsellor,' replied Julia.

'And you think,' said Pleydell, 'it's two to one you won't choose that? But you have curiosity
that teaches you the use of your ears now and then.'

'I declare, Counsellor,' answered the lively damsel, 'that such saucy bachelors as you would
teach us the use of our fingers now and then.'

'Reserve them for the harpsichord, my love,' said the Counsellor. 'Better for all parties.'

While this idle chat ran on, Colonel Mannering introduced to Bertram a plain good-looking man,
in a grey coat and waistcoat, buckskin breeches, and boots. 'This, my dear sir, is Mr. Mac-
Morlan.'

'To whom,' said Bertram, embracing him cordially, 'my sister was indebted for a home, when
deserted by all her natural friends and relations.'

The Dominie then pressed forward, grinned, chuckled, made a diabolical sound in attempting
to whistle, and finally, unable to stifle his emotions, ran away to empty the feelings of his
heart at his eyes.

We shall not attempt to describe the expansion of heart and glee of this happy evening.

CHAPTER LVI

          How like a hateful ape,
     Detected grinning 'midst his pilfer'd hoard,
     A cunning man appears, whose secret frauds
     Are open'd to the day!

          Count Basil

There was a great movement at Woodbourne early on the following morning to attend the examination
at Kippletringan. Mr. Pleydell, from the investigation which he had formerly bestowed on the
dark affair of Kennedy's death, as well as from the general deference due to his professional
abilities, was requested by Mr. Mac-Morlan and Sir Robert Hazlewood, and another justice of
peace who attended, to take the situation of chairman and the lead in the examination. Colonel
Mannering was invited to sit down with them. The examination, being previous to trial, was
private in other respects.

The Counsellor resumed and reinterrogated former evidence. He then examined the clergyman and
surgeon respecting the dying declaration of Meg Merrilies. They stated that she distinctly,
positively, and repeatedly declared herself an eye-witness of Kennedy's death by the hands
of Hatteraick and two or three of his crew; that her presence was accidental; that she believed
their resentment at meeting him, when they were in the act of losing their vessel through the
means of his information, led to the commission of the crime; that she said there was one witness
of the murder, but who refused to participate in it, still alive--her nephew, Gabriel Faa;
and she had hinted at another person who was an accessory after, not before, the fact; but
her strength there failed her. They did not forget to mention her declaration that she had
saved the child, and that he was torn from her by the smugglers for the purpose of carrying
him to Holland. All these particulars were carefully reduced to writing.

Dirk Hatteraick was then brought in, heavily ironed; for he had been strictly secured and guarded,
owing to his former escape. He was asked his name; he made no answer. His profession; he was
silent. Several other questions were put, to none of which he returned any reply. Pleydell
wiped the glasses of his spectacles and considered the prisoner very attentively. 'A very truculent-
looking fellow,' he whispered to Mannering; 'but, as Dogberry says, I'll go cunningly to work
with him. Here, call in Soles-- Soles the shoemaker. Soles, do you remember measuring some
footsteps imprinted on the mud at the wood of Warroch on--November 17--, by my orders?' Soles
remembered the circumstance perfectly. 'Look at that paper; is that your note of the measurement?'
Soles verified the memorandum. 'Now, there stands a pair of shoes on that table; measure them,
and see if they correspond with any of the marks you have noted there.' The shoemaker obeyed,
and declared 'that they answered exactly to the largest of the footprints.'

'We shall prove,' said the Counsellor, aside to Mannering, 'that these shoes, which were found
in the ruins at Derncleugh, belonged to Brown, the fellow whom you shot on the lawn at Woodbourne.
Now, Soles, measure that prisoner's feet very accurately.'

Mannering observed Hatteraick strictly, and could notice a visible tremor. 'Do these measurements
correspond with any of the footprints?'

The man looked at the note, then at his foot-rule and measure, then verified his former measurement
by a second. 'They correspond,' he said, 'within a hair-breadth to a foot-mark broader and
shorter than the former.'

Hatteraick's genius here deserted him. 'Der deyvil!' he broke out, 'how could there be a footmark
on the ground, when it was a frost as hard as the heart of a Memel log?'

'In the evening, I grant you, Captain Hatteraick,' said Pleydell, 'but not in the forenoon.
Will you favour me with information where you were upon the day you remember so exactly?'

Hatteraick saw his blunder, and again screwed up his hard features for obstinate silence. 'Put
down his observation, however,' said Pleydell to the clerk.

At this moment the door opened, and, much to the surprise of most present, Mr. Gilbert Glossin
made his appearance. That worthy gentleman had, by dint of watching and eavesdropping, ascertained
that he was not mentioned by name in Meg Merrilies's dying declaration--a circumstance certainly
not owing to any favourable disposition towards him, but to the delay of taking her regular
examination, and to the rapid approach of death. He therefore supposed himself safe from all
evidence but such as might arise from Hatteraick's confession; to prevent which he resolved
to push a bold face and join his brethren of the bench during his examination. 'I shall be
able,' he thought, 'to make the rascal sensible his safety lies in keeping his own counsel
and mine; and my presence, besides, will be a proof of confidence and innocence. If I must
lose the estate, I must; but I trust better things.'

He entered with a profound salutation to Sir Robert Hazlewood. Sir Robert, who had rather begun
to suspect that his plebeian neighbour had made a cat's paw of him, inclined his head stiffly,
took snuff, and looked another way.

'Mr. Corsand,' said Glossin to the other yokefellow of justice, 'your most humble servant.'

'Your humble servant, Mr. Glossin,' answered Mr. Corsand drily, composing his countenance regis
ad exemplar, that is to say, after the fashion of the Baronet.

'Mac-Morlan, my worthy friend,' continued Glossin, 'how d' ye do; always on your duty?'

'Umph,' said honest Mac-Morlan, with little respect either to the compliment or salutation.

'Colonel Mannering (a low bow slightly returned), and Mr. Pleydell (another low bow), I dared
not have hoped for your assistance to poor country gentlemen at this period of the session.'

Pleydell took snuff, and eyed him with a glance equally shrewd and sarcastic. 'I'll teach him,'
he said aside to Mannering, 'the value of the old admonition, Ne accesseris in consilium antequam
voceris.'

'But perhaps I intrude, gentlemen?' said Glossin, who could not fail to observe the coldness
of his reception. 'Is this an open meeting?'

'For my part,' said Mr. Pleydell, 'so far from considering your attendance as an intrusion,
Mr. Glossin, I was never so pleased in my life to meet with you; especially as I think we should,
at any rate, have had occasion to request the favour of your company in the course of the day.'

'Well, then, gentlemen,' said Glossin, drawing his chair to the table, and beginning to bustle
about among the papers, 'where are we? how far have we got? where are the declarations?'

'Clerk, give me all these papers,' said Mr. Pleydell. 'I have an odd way of arranging my documents,
Mr. Glossin, another person touching them puts me out; but I shall have occasion for your assistance
by and by.'

Glossin, thus reduced to inactivity, stole one glance at Dirk Hatteraick, but could read nothing
in his dark scowl save malignity and hatred to all around. 'But, gentlemen,' said Glossin,
'is it quite right to keep this poor man so heavily ironed when he is taken up merely for examination?'

This was hoisting a kind of friendly signal to the prisoner. 'He has escaped once before,'
said Mac-Morlan drily, and Glossin was silenced.

Bertram was now introduced, and, to Glossin's confusion, was greeted in the most friendly manner
by all present, even by Sir Robert Hazlewood himself. He told his recollections of his infancy
with that candour and caution of expression which afforded the best warrant for his good faith.
'This seems to be rather a civil than a criminal question,' said Glossin, rising; 'and as you
cannot be ignorant, gentlemen, of the effect which this young person's pretended parentage
may have on my patrimonial interest, I would rather beg leave to retire.'

'No, my good sir,' said Mr. Pleydell, 'we can by no means spare you. But why do you call this
young man's claims pretended? I don't mean to fish for your defences against them, if you have
any, but--'

'Mr. Pleydell,' replied Glossin, 'I am always disposed to act above-board, and I think I can
explain the matter at once. This young fellow, whom I take to be a natural son of the late
Ellangowan, has gone about the country for some weeks under different names, caballing with
a wretched old mad-woman, who, I understand, was shot in a late scuffle, and with other tinkers,
gipsies, and persons of that description, and a great brute farmer from Liddesdale, stirring
up the tenants against their landlords, which, as Sir Robert Hazlewood of Hazlewood knows--'

'Not to interrupt you, Mr. Glossin,' said Pleydell, 'I ask who you say this young man is?'

'Why, I say,' replied Glossin, 'and I believe that gentleman (looking at Hatteraick) knows,
that the young man is a natural son of the late Ellangowan, by a girl called Janet Lightoheel,
who was afterwards married to Hewit the shipwright, that lived in the neighbourhood of Annan.
His name is Godfrey Bertram Hewit, by which name he was entered on board the Royal Caroline
excise yacht.'

'Ay?' said Pleydell, 'that is a very likely story! But, not to pause upon some difference of
eyes, complexion, and so forth--be pleased to step forward, sir.' (A young seafaring man came
forward.) 'Here,' proceeded the Counsellor, 'is the real Simon Pure; here's Godfrey Bertram
Hewit, arrived last night from Antigua via Liverpool, mate of a West-Indian, and in a fair
way of doing well in the world, although he came somewhat irregularly into it.'

While some conversation passed between the other justices and this young man, Pleydell lifted
from among the papers on the table Hatteraick's old pocket-book. A peculiar glance of the smuggler's
eye induced the shrewd lawyer to think there was something here of interest. He therefore continued
the examination of the papers, laying the book on the table, but instantly perceived that the
prisoner's interest in the research had cooled. 'It must be in the book still, whatever it
is,' thought Pleydell; and again applied himself to the pocket-book, until he discovered, on
a narrow scrutiny, a slit between the pasteboard and leather, out of which he drew three small
slips of paper. Pleydell now, turning to Glossin, requested the favour that he would tell them
if he had assisted at the search for the body of Kennedy and the child of his patron on the
day when they disappeared.

'I did not--that is, I did,' answered the conscience-struck Glossin.

'It is remarkable though,' said the Advocate, 'that, connected as you were with the Ellangowan
family, I don't recollect your being examined, or even appearing before me, while that investigation
was proceeding?'

'I was called to London,' answered Glossin, 'on most important business the morning after that
sad affair.'

'Clerk,' said Pleydell, 'minute down that reply. I presume the business, Mr. Glossin, was to
negotiate these three bills, drawn by you on Messrs. Vanbeest and Vanbruggen, and accepted
by one Dirk Hatteraick in their name on the very day of the murder. I congratulate you on their
being regularly retired, as I perceive they have been. I think the chances were against it.'
Glossin's countenance fell. 'This piece of real evidence,' continued Mr. Pleydell, 'makes good
the account given of your conduct on this occasion by a man called Gabriel Faa, whom we have
now in custody, and who witnessed the whole transaction between you and that worthy prisoner.
Have you any explanation to give?'

'Mr. Pleydell,' said Glossin, with great composure, 'I presume, if you were my counsel, you
would not advise me to answer upon the spur of the moment to a charge which the basest of mankind
seem ready to establish by perjury.'

'My advice,' said the Counsellor, 'would be regulated by my opinion of your innocence or guilt.
In your case, I believe you take the wisest course; but you are aware you must stand committed?'

'Committed? for what, sir?' replied Glossin. 'Upon a charge of murder?'

'No; only as art and part of kidnapping the child.'

'That is a bailable offence.'

'Pardon me,' said Pleydell, 'it is plagium, and plagium is felony.'

'Forgive me, Mr. Pleydell, there is only one case upon record, Torrence and Waldie. They were,
you remember, resurrection-women, who had promised to procure a child's body for some young
surgeons. Being upon honour to their employers, rather than disappoint the evening lecture
of the students, they stole a live child, murdered it, and sold the body for three shillings
and sixpence. They were hanged, but for the murder, not for the plagium [Footnote: This is,
in its circumstances and issue, actually a case tried and reported.]--Your civil law has carried
you a little too far.'

'Well, sir, but in the meantime Mr. Mac-Morlan must commit you to the county jail, in case
this young man repeats the same story. Officers, remove Mr. Glossin and Hatteraick, and guard
them in different apartments.'

Gabriel, the gipsy, was then introduced, and gave a distinct account of his deserting from
Captain Pritchard's vessel and joining the smugglers in the action, detailed how Dirk Hatteraick
set fire to his ship when he found her disabled, and under cover of the smoke escaped with
his crew, and as much goods as they could save, into the cavern, where they proposed to lie
till nightfall. Hatteraick himself, his mate Vanbeest Brown, and three others, of whom the
declarant was one, went into the adjacent woods to communicate with some of their friends in
the neighbourhood. They fell in with Kennedy unexpectedly, and Hatteraick and Brown, aware
that he was the occasion of their disasters, resolved to murder him. He stated that he had
seen them lay violent hands on the officer and drag him through the woods, but had not partaken
in the assault nor witnessed its termination; that he returned to the cavern by a different
route, where he again met Hatteraick and his accomplices; and the captain was in the act of
giving an account how he and Brown had pushed a huge crag over, as Kennedy lay groaning on
the beach, when Glossin suddenly appeared among them. To the whole transaction by which Hatteraick
purchased his secrecy he was witness. Respecting young Bertram, he could give a distinct account
till he went to India, after which he had lost sight of him until he unexpectedly met with
him in Liddesdale. Gabriel Faa farther stated that he instantly sent notice to his aunt Meg
Merrilies, as well as to Hatteraick, who he knew was then upon the coast; but that he had incurred
his aunt's displeasure upon the latter account. He concluded, that his aunt had immediately
declared that she would do all that lay in her power to help young Ellangowan to his right,
even if it should be by informing against Dirk Hatteraick; and that many of her people assisted
her besides himself, from a belief that she was gifted with supernatural inspirations. With
the same purpose, he understood his aunt had given to Bertram the treasure of the tribe, of
which she had the custody. Three or four gipsies, by the express command of Meg Merrilies,
mingled in the crowd when the custom-house was attacked, for the purpose of liberating Bertram,
which he had himself effected. He said, that in obeying Meg's dictates they did not pretend
to estimate their propriety or rationality, the respect in which she was held by her tribe
precluding all such subjects of speculation. Upon farther interrogation, the witness added,
that his aunt had always said that Harry Bertram carried that round his neck which would ascertain
his birth. It was a spell, she said, that an Oxford scholar had made for him, and she possessed
the smugglers with an opinion that to deprive him of it would occasion the loss of the vessel.

Bertram here produced a small velvet bag, which he said he had worn round his neck from his
earliest infancy, and which he had preserved, first from superstitious reverence, and latterly
from the hope that it might serve one day to aid in the discovery of his birth. The bag, being
opened, was found to contain a blue silk case, from which was drawn a scheme of nativity. Upon
inspecting this paper, Colonel Mannering instantly admitted it was his own composition; and
afforded the strongest and most satisfactory evidence that the possessor of it must necessarily
be the young heir of Ellangowan, by avowing his having first appeared in that country in the
character of an astrologer.

'And now,' said Pleydell, 'make out warrants of commitment for Hatteraick and Glossin until
liberated in due course of law. Yet,' he said, 'I am sorry for Glossin.'

'Now, I think,' said Mannering, 'he's incomparably the least deserving of pity of the two.
The other's a bold fellow, though as hard as flint.'

'Very natural, Colonel,' said the Advocate, 'that you should be interested in the ruffian and
I in the knave, that's all professional taste; but I can tell you Glossin would have been a
pretty lawyer had he not had such a turn for the roguish part of the profession.'

'Scandal would say,' observed Mannering, 'he might not be the worse lawyer for that.'

'Scandal would tell a lie, then,' replied Pleydell, 'as she usually does. Law's like laudanum:
it's much more easy to use it as a quack does than to learn to apply it like a physician.'

CHAPTER LVII

     Unfit to live or die--O marble heart!
     After him, fellows, drag him to the block.

          Measure for Measure.

The jail at the county town of the shire of----was one of those old-fashioned dungeons which
disgraced Scotland until of late years. When the prisoners and their guard arrived there, Hatteraick,
whose violence and strength were well known, was secured in what was called the condemned ward.
This was a large apartment near the top of the prison. A round bar of iron,[Footnote: See Note
9.] about the thickness of a man's arm above the elbow, crossed the apartment horizontally
at the height of about six inches from the floor; and its extremities were strongly built into
the wall at either end. Hatteraick's ankles were secured within shackles, which were connected
by a chain, at the distance of about four feet, with a large iron ring, which travelled upon
the bar we have described. Thus a prisoner might shuffle along the length of the bar from one
side of the room to another, but could not retreat farther from it in any other direction than
the brief length of the chain admitted. When his feet had been thus secured, the keeper removed
his handcuffs and left his person at liberty in other respects. A pallet-bed was placed close
to the bar of iron, so that the shackled prisoner might lie down at pleasure, still fastened
to the iron bar in the manner described.

Hatteraick had not been long in this place of confinement before Glossin arrived at the same
prison-house. In respect to his comparative rank and education, he was not ironed, but placed
in a decent apartment, under the inspection of Mac-Guffog, who, since the destruction of the
bridewell of Portanferry by the mob, had acted here as an under-turnkey. When Glossin was enclosed
within this room, and had solitude and leisure to calculate all the chances against him and
in his favour, he could not prevail upon himself to consider the game as desperate.

'The estate is lost,' he said, 'that must go; and, between Pleydell and Mac-Morlan, they'll
cut down my claim on it to a trifle. My character--but if I get off with life and liberty I'll
win money yet and varnish that over again. I knew not of the gauger's job until the rascal
had done the deed, and, though I had some advantage by the contraband, that is no felony. But
the kidnapping of the boy--there they touch me closer. Let me see. This Bertram was a child
at the time; his evidence must be imperfect. The other fellow is a deserter, a gipsy, and an
outlaw. Meg Merrilies, d-n her, is dead. These infernal bills! Hatteraick brought them with
him, I suppose, to have the means of threatening me or extorting money from me. I must endeavour
to see the rascal; must get him to stand steady; must persuade him to put some other colour
upon the business.'

His mind teeming with schemes of future deceit to cover former villainy, he spent the time
in arranging and combining them until the hour of supper. Mac-Guffog attended as turnkey on
this occasion. He was, as we know, the old and special acquaintance of the prisoner who was
now under his charge. After giving the turnkey a glass of brandy, and sounding him with one
or two cajoling speeches, Glossin made it his request that he would help him to an interview
with Dirk Hatteraick. 'Impossible! utterly impossible! it's contrary to the express orders
of Mr. Mac-Morlan, and the captain (as the head jailor of a county jail is called in Scotland)
would never forgie me.'

'But why should he know of it?' said Glossin, slipping a couple of guineas into Mac-Guffog's hand.

The turnkey weighed the gold and looked sharp at Glossin. 'Ay, ay, Mr. Glossin, ye ken the
ways o' this place. Lookee, at lock-up hour I'll return and bring ye upstairs to him. But ye
must stay a' night in his cell, for I am under needcessity to carry the keys to the captain
for the night, and I cannot let you out again until morning; then I'll visit the wards half
an hour earlier than usual, and ye may get out and be snug in your ain birth when the captain
gangs his rounds.'

When the hour of ten had pealed from the neighbouring steeple Mac- Guffog came prepared with
a small dark lantern. He said softly to Glossin, 'Slip your shoes off and follow me.' When
Glossin was out of the door, Mac-Guffog, as if in the execution of his ordinary duty, and speaking
to a prisoner within, called aloud, 'Good-night to you, sir,' and locked the door, clattering
the bolts with much ostentatious noise. He then guided Glossin up a steep and narrow stair,
at the top of which was the door of the condemned ward; he unbarred and unlocked it, and, giving
Glossin the lantern, made a sign to him to enter, and locked the door behind him with the same
affected accuracy.

In the large dark cell into which he was thus introduced Glossin's feeble light for some time
enabled him to discover nothing. At length he could dimly distinguish the pallet-bed stretched
on the floor beside the great iron bar which traversed the room, and on that pallet reposed
the figure of a man. Glossin approached him. 'Dirk Hatteraick!'

'Donner and hagel! it is his voice,' said the prisoner, sitting up and clashing his fetters
as he rose; 'then my dream is true! Begone, and leave me to myself; it will be your best.'

'What! my good friend,' said Glossin, 'will you allow the prospect of a few weeks' confinement
to depress your spirit?'

'Yes,' answered the ruffian, sullenly, 'when I am only to be released by a halter! Let me alone;
go about your business, and turn the lamp from my face!'

'Psha! my dear Dirk, don't be afraid,' said Glossin; 'I have a glorious plan to make all right.'

'To the bottomless pit with your plans!' replied his accomplice; 'you have planned me out of
ship, cargo, and life; and I dreamt this moment that Meg Merrilies dragged you here by the
hair and gave me the long clasped knife she used to wear; you don't know what she said. Sturmwetter!
it will be your wisdom not to tempt me!'

'But, Hatteraick, my good friend, do but rise and speak to me,' said Glossin.

'I will not!' answered the savage, doggedly. 'You have caused all the mischief; you would not
let Meg keep the boy; she would have returned him after he had forgot all.'

'Why, Hatteraick, you are turned driveller!'

'Wetter! will you deny that all that cursed attempt at Portanferry, which lost both sloop and
crew, was your device for your own job?'

'But the goods, you know--'

'Curse the goods!' said the smuggler, 'we could have got plenty more; but, der deyvil! to lose
the ship and the fine fellows, and my own life, for a cursed coward villain, that always works
his own mischief with other people's hands! Speak to me no more; I'm dangerous.'

'But, Dirk--but, Hatteraick, hear me only a few words.'

'Hagel! nein.'

'Only one sentence.'

'Tousand curses! nein.'

'At least get up, for an obstinate Dutch brute!' said Glossin, losing his temper and pushing
Hatteraick with his foot.

'Donner and blitzen!' said Hatteraick, springing up and grappling with him; 'you WILL have
it then?'

Glossin struggled and resisted; but, owing to his surprise at the fury of the assault, so ineffectually
that he fell under Hatteraick, the back part of his neck coming full upon the iron bar with
stunning violence. The death-grapple continued. The room immediately below the condemned ward,
being that of Glossin, was, of course, empty; but the inmates of the second apartment beneath
felt the shock of Glossin's heavy fall, and heard a noise as of struggling and of groans. But
all sounds of horror were too congenial to this place to excite much curiosity or interest.

In the morning, faithful to his promise, Mac-Guffog came. 'Mr. Glossin,' said he, in a whispering
voice.

'Call louder,' answered Dirk Hatteraick.

'Mr. Glossin, for God's sake come away!'

'He'll hardly do that without help,' said Hatteraick.

'What are you chattering there for, Mac-Guffog?' called out the captain from below.

'Come away, for God's sake, Mr. Glossin!' repeated the turnkey.

At this moment the jailor made his appearance with a light. Great was his surprise, and even
horror, to observe Glossin's body lying doubled across the iron bar, in a posture that excluded
all idea of his being alive. Hatteraick was quietly stretched upon his pallet within a yard
of his victim. On lifting Glossin it was found he had been dead for some hours. His body bore
uncommon marks of violence. The spine where it joins the skull had received severe injury by
his first fall. There were distinct marks of strangulation about the throat, which corresponded
with the blackened state of his face. The head was turned backward over the shoulder, as if
the neck had been wrung round with desperate violence. So that it would seem that his inveterate
antagonist had fixed a fatal gripe upon the wretch's throat, and never quitted it while life
lasted. The lantern, crushed and broken to pieces, lay beneath the body.

Mac-Morlan was in the town, and came instantly to examine the corpse. 'What brought Glossin
here?' he said to Hatteraick.

'The devil!' answered the ruffian.

'And what did you do to him?'

'Sent him to hell before me!' replied the miscreant.

'Wretch,' said Mac-Morlan, 'you have crowned a life spent without a single virtue with the
murder of your own miserable accomplice!'

'Virtue?' exclaimed the prisoner. 'Donner! I was always faithful to my shipowners--always accounted
for cargo to the last stiver. Hark ye! let me have pen and ink and I'll write an account of
the whole to our house, and leave me alone a couple of hours, will ye; and let them take away
that piece of carrion, donnerwetter!'

Mac-Morlan deemed it the best way to humour the savage; he was furnished with writing materials
and left alone. When they again opened the door it was found that this determined villain had
anticipated justice. He had adjusted a cord taken from the truckle-bed, and attached it to
a bone, the relic of his yesterday's dinner, which he had contrived to drive into a crevice
between two stones in the wall at a height as great as he could reach, standing upon the bar.
Having fastened the noose, he had the resolution to drop his body as if to fall on his knees,
and to retain that posture until resolution was no longer necessary. The letter he had written
to his owners, though chiefly upon the business of their trade, contained many allusions to
the younker of Ellangowan, as he called him, and afforded absolute confirmation of all Meg
Merrilies and her nephew had told.

To dismiss the catastrophe of these two wretched men, I shall only add, that Mac-Guffog was
turned out of office, notwithstanding his declaration (which he offered to attest by oath),
that he had locked Glossin safely in his own room upon the night preceding his being found
dead in Dirk Hatteraick's cell. His story, however, found faith with the worthy Mr. Skriegh
and other lovers of the marvellous, who still hold that the Enemy of Mankind brought these
two wretches together upon that night by supernatural interference, that they might fill up
the cup of their guilt and receive its meed by murder and suicide.

CHAPTER LVIII

     To sum the whole--the close of all.

          DEAN SWIFT.

As Glossin died without heirs, and without payment of the price, the estate of Ellangowan was
again thrown upon the hands of Mr. Godfrey Bertram's creditors, the right of most of whom was,
however, defeasible in case Henry Bertram should establish his character of heir of entail.
This young gentleman put his affairs into the hands of Mr. Pleydell and Mr. Mac-Morlan, with
one single proviso, that, though he himself should be obliged again to go to India, every debt
justly and honourably due by his father should be made good to the claimant. Mannering, who
heard this declaration, grasped him kindly by the hand, and from that moment might be dated
a thorough understanding between them.

The hoards of Miss Margaret Bertram, and the liberal assistance of the Colonel, easily enabled
the heir to make provision for payment of the just creditors of his father, while the ingenuity
and research of his law friends detected, especially in the accounts of Glossin, so many overcharges
as greatly diminished the total amount. In these circumstances the creditors did not hesitate
to recognise Bertram's right, and to surrender to him the house and property of his ancestors.
All the party repaired from Woodbourne to take possession, amid the shouts of the tenantry
and the neighbourhood; and so eager was Colonel Mannering to superintend certain improvements
which he had recommended to Bertram, that he removed with his family from Woodbourne to Ellangowan,
although at present containing much less and much inferior accommodation.

The poor Dominie's brain was almost turned with joy on returning to his old habitation. He
posted upstairs, taking three steps at once, to a little shabby attic, his cell and dormitory
in former days, and which the possession of his much superior apartment at Woodbourne had never
banished from his memory. Here one sad thought suddenly struck the honest man--the books! no
three rooms in Ellangowan were capable to contain them. While this qualifying reflection was
passing through his mind, he was suddenly summoned by Mannering to assist in calculating some
proportions relating to a large and splendid house which was to be built on the site of the
New Place of Ellangowan, in a style corresponding to the magnificence of the ruins in its vicinity.
Among the various rooms in the plan, the Dominie observed that one of the largest was entitled
THE LIBRARY; and close beside was a snug, well- proportioned chamber, entitled Mr. SAMPSON'S
APARTMENT. 'Prodigious, prodigious, pro-di-gi-ous!' shouted the enraptured Dominie.

Mr. Pleydell had left the party for some time; but he returned, according to promise, during
the Christmas recess of the courts. He drove up to Ellangowan when all the family were abroad
but the Colonel, who was busy with plans of buildings and pleasure- grounds, in which he was
well skilled, and took great delight.

'Ah ha!' said the Counsellor, 'so here you are! Where are the ladies? where is the fair Julia?'

'Walking out with young Hazlewood, Bertram, and Captain Delaserre, a friend of his, who is
with us just now. They are gone to plan out a cottage at Derncleugh. Well, have you carried
through your law business?'

'With a wet finger,' answered the lawyer; 'got our youngster's special service retoured into
Chancery. We had him served heir before the macers.'

'Macers? who are they?'

'Why, it is a kind of judicial Saturnalia. You must know, that one of the requisites to be
a macer, or officer in attendance upon our supreme court, is, that they shall be men of no
knowledge.'

'Very well!'

'Now, our Scottish legislature, for the joke's sake I suppose, have constituted those men of
no knowledge into a peculiar court for trying questions of relationship and descent, such as
this business of Bertram, which often involve the most nice and complicated questions of evidence.'

'The devil they have! I should think that rather inconvenient,' said Mannering.

'O, we have a practical remedy for the theoretical absurdity. One or two of the judges act
upon such occasions as prompters and assessors to their own doorkeepers. But you know what
Cujacius says, "Multa sunt in moribus dissentanea, multa sine ratione." [Footnote: The singular
inconsistency hinted at is now, in a great degree, removed.] However, this Saturnalian court
has done our business; and a glorious batch of claret we had afterwards at Walker's. Mac-Morlan
will stare when he sees the bill.'

'Never fear,' said the Colonel, 'we'll face the shock, and entertain the county at my friend
Mrs. Mac-Candlish's to boot.'

'And choose Jock Jabos for your master of horse?' replied the lawyer.

'Perhaps I may.'

'And where is Dandie, the redoubted Lord of Liddesdale?' demanded the advocate.

'Returned to his mountains; but he has promised Julia to make a descent in summer, with the
goodwife, as he calls her, and I don't know how many children.'

'O, the curly-headed varlets! I must come to play at Blind Harry and Hy Spy with them. But
what is all this?' added Pleydell, taking up the plans. 'Tower in the centre to be an imitation
of the Eagle Tower at Caernarvon--corps de logis--the devil! Wings-- wings! Why, the house
will take the estate of Ellangowan on its back and fly away with it!'

'Why, then, we must ballast it with a few bags of sicca rupees,' replied the Colonel.

'Aha! sits the wind there? Then I suppose the young dog carries off my mistress Julia?'

'Even so, Counsellor.'

'These rascals, the post-nati, get the better of us of the old school at every turn,' said
Mr. Pleydell. 'But she must convey and make over her interest in me to Lucy.'

'To tell you the truth, I am afraid your flank will be turned there too,' replied the Colonel.

'Indeed?'

'Here has been Sir Robert Hazlewood,' said Mannering, 'upon a visit to Bertram, thinking and
deeming and opining--'

'O Lord! pray spare me the worthy Baronet's triads!'

'Well, sir,' continued Mannering, 'to make short, he conceived that, as the property of Singleside
lay like a wedge between two farms of his, and was four or five miles separated from Ellangowan,
something like a sale or exchange or arrangement might take place, to the mutual convenience
of both parties.'

'Well, and Bertram--'

'Why, Bertram replied, that he considered the original settlement of Mrs. Margaret Bertram
as the arrangement most proper in the circumstances of the family, and that therefore the estate
of Singleside was the property of his sister.'

'The rascal!' said Pleydell, wiping his spectacles. 'He'll steal my heart as well as my mistress.
Et puis?'

'And then Sir Robert retired, after many gracious speeches; but last week he again took the
field in force, with his coach and six horses, his laced scarlet waistcoat, and best bob-wig--all
very grand, as the good-boy books say.'

'Ay! and what was his overture?'

'Why, he talked with great form of an attachment on the part of Charles Hazlewood to Miss Bertram.'

'Ay, ay; he respected the little god Cupid when he saw him perched on the Dun of Singleside.
And is poor Lucy to keep house with that old fool and his wife, who is just the knight himself
in petticoats?'

'No; we parried that. Singleside House is to be repaired for the young people, and to be called
hereafter Mount Hazlewood.'

'And do you yourself, Colonel, propose to continue at Woodbourne?'

'Only till we carry these plans into effect. See, here's the plan of my bungalow, with all
convenience for being separate and sulky when I please.'

'And, being situated, as I see, next door to the old castle, you may repair Donagild's tower
for the nocturnal contemplation of the celestial bodies? Bravo, Colonel!'

'No, no, my dear Counsellor! Here ends THE ASTROLOGER.'

THE END

NOTES AND GLOSSARY

NOTES

NOTE 1, p. 93

The roads of Liddesdale, in Dandie Dinmont's days, could not be said to exist, and the district
was only accessible through a succession of tremendous morasses. About thirty years ago the
author himself was the first person who ever drove a little open carriage into these wilds,
the excellent roads by which they are now traversed being then in some progress. The people
stared with no small wonder at a sight which many of them had never witnessed in their lives
before.

NOTE 2, p. 102

The Tappit Hen contained three quarts of claret--

     Weel she loed a Hawick gill,
       And leugh to see a tappit hen.

I have seen one of these formidable stoups at Provost Haswell's, at Jedburgh, in the days of
yore It was a pewter measure, the claret being in ancient days served from the tap, and had
the figure of a hen upon the lid. In later times the name was given to a glass bottle of the
same dimensions. These are rare apparitions among the degenerate topers of modern days.

NOTE 3, p. 102

The account given by Mr. Pleydell of his sitting down in the midst of a revel to draw an appeal
case was taken from a story told me by an aged gentleman of the elder President Dundas of Amiston
(father of the younger President and of Lord Melville). It had been thought very desirable,
while that distinguished lawyer was king's counsel, that his assistance should be obtained
in drawing an appeal case, which, as occasion for such writings then rarely occurred, was held
to be matter of great nicety. The solicitor employed for the appellant, attended by my informant
acting as his clerk, went to the Lord Advocate's chambers in the Fishmarket Close, as I think.
It was Saturday at noon, the Court was just dismissed, the Lord Advocate had changed his dress
and booted himself, and his servant and horses were at the foot of the close to carry him to
Arniston. It was scarcely possible to get him to listen to a word respecting business. The
wily agent, however, on pretence of asking one or two questions, which would not detain him
half an hour, drew his Lordship, who was no less an eminent ban vivant than a lawyer of unequalled
talent, to take a whet at a celebrated tavern, when the learned counsel became gradually involved
in a spirited discussion of the law points of the case. At length it occurred to him that he
might as well ride to Arniston in the cool of the evening. The horses were directed to be put
in the stable, but not to be unsaddled. Dinner was ordered, the law was laid aside for a time,
and the bottle circulated very freely. At nine o'clock at night, after he had been honouring
Bacchus for so many hours, the Lord Advocate ordered his horses to be unsaddled; paper, pen,
and ink were brought; he began to dictate the appeal case, and continued at his task till four
o'clock the next morning. By next day's post the solicitor sent the case to London, a chef-d'oeuvre
of its kind; and in which, my informant assured me, it was not necessary on revisal to correct
five words. I am not, therefore, conscious of having overstepped accuracy in describing the
manner in which Scottish lawyers of the old time occasionally united the worship of Bacchus
with that of Themis. My informant was Alexander Keith, Esq., grandfather to my friend, the
present Sir Alexander Keith of Ravelstone, and apprentice at the time to the writer who conducted
the cause.

NOTE 4, p. 180

We must again have recourse to the contribution to Blackwood's Magazine, April 1817:--

'To the admirers of good eating, gipsy cookery seems to have little to recommend it. I can
assure you, however, that the cook of a nobleman of high distinction, a person who never reads
even a novel without an eye to the enlargement of the culinary science, has added to the "Almanach
des Gourmands" a certain Potage a la Meg Merrilies de Derndeugh, consisting of game and poultry
of all kinds, stewed with vegetables into a soup, which rivals in savour and richness the gallant
messes of Camacho's wedding; and which the Baron of Bradwardine would certainly have reckoned
among the epulae lautiores.'

The artist alluded to in this passage is Mons. Florence, cook to Henry and Charles, late Dukes
of Buccleuch, and of high distinction in his profession.

NOTE 5, p. 212

The Burnet whose taste for the evening meal of the ancients is quoted by Mr. Pleydellwas the
celebrated metaphysician and excellent man, Lord Monboddo, whose coenae will not be soon forgotten
by those who have shared his classic hospitality. As a Scottish judge he took the designation
of his family estate. His philosophy, as is well known, was of a fanciful and somewhat fantastic
character; but his learning was deep, and he was possessed of a singular power of eloquence,
which reminded the hearer of the os rotundum of the Grove or Academe. Enthusiastically partial
to classical habits, his entertainments were always given in the evening, when there was a
circulation of excellent Bourdeaux, in flasks garlanded with roses, which were also strewed
on the table after the manner of Horace. The best society, whether in respect of rank or literary
distinction, was always to be found in St. John's Street, Canongate.

NOTE 6, p. 215

It is probably true, as observed by Counsellor Pleydell, that a lawyer's anxiety about his
case, supposing him to have been some time in practice, will seldom disturb his rest or digestion.
Clients will, however, sometimes fondly entertain a different opinion. I was told by an excellent
judge, now no more, of a country gentleman who, addressing his leading counsel, my informer,
then an advocate in great practice, on the morning of the day on which the case was to be pleaded,
said, with singular bonhomie, 'Weel, my Lord (the counsel was Lord Advocate), the awful day
is come at last. I have nae been able to sleep a wink for thinking of it; nor, I daresay, your
Lordship either.'

NOTE 7, p. 235

Whistling, among the tenantry of a large estate, is when an individual gives such information
to the proprietor or his managers as to occasion the rent of his neighbour's farms being raised,
which, for obvious reasons, is held a very unpopular practice.

NOTE 8, p. 286

This hard word is placed in the mouth of one of the aged tenants. In the old feudal tenures
the herezeld constituted the best horse or other animal on the vassals' lands, become the right
of the superior. The only remnant of this custom is what is called the sasine, or a fee of
certain estimated value, paid to the sheriff of the county, who gives possession to the vassals
of the crown.

NOTE 9, p. 301

This mode of securing prisoners was universally practised in Scotland after condemnation. When
a man received sentence of death he was put upon THE GAD, as it was called, that is, secured
to the bar of iron in the manner mentioned in the text. The practice subsisted in Edinburgh
till the old jail was taken down some years since, and perhaps may be still in use.