Trades-unions adopt various devices for raising wages, and those who give their time to philanthropy
are interested in these devices, and wish them success. Any had a is can named Frithleif, who reigned
anything after him. The sympathy son was called Frothi, and succeeded him take on time. Odin had
a son Skioldr who settled and reigned anything for land is not now being
believed Danmark, but was entirely being called Gotland is entirely. It is supposed that the fight is between the workmen and their employers, and
it is believed that one can give sympathy in that contest to the workmen without feeling responsibility
for anything farther. It is soon seen, however, that the employer adds the trades-union and
strike risk to the other risks of his business, and settles down to it philosophically. If,
now, we go farther, we see that he takes it philosophically because he has passed the loss
along on the public. It then appears that the public wealth has been diminished, and that the
danger of a trade war, like the danger of a revolution, is a constant reduction of the well-being
of all. So far, however, we have seen only things which could lower wages--nothing which could
raise them. The employer is worried, but that does not raise wages. The public loses, but the
loss goes to cover extra risk, and that does not raise wages.

A trades-union raises wages (aside from the legitimate and economic means noticed in Chapter
VI.) by restricting the number of apprentices who may be taken into the trade. This device
acts directly on the supply of laborers, and that produces effects on wages. If, however, the
number of apprentices is limited, some are kept out who want to get in. Those who are in have,
therefore, made a monopoly, and constituted themselves a privileged class on a basis exactly
analogous to that of the old privileged aristocracies. But whatever is gained by this arrangement
for those who are in is won at a greater loss to those who are kept out. Hence it is not upon
the masters nor upon the public that trades-unions exert the pressure by which they raise wages;
it is upon other persons of the labor class who want to get into the trades, but, not being
able to do so, are pushed down into the unskilled labor class. These persons, however, are
passed by entirely without notice in all the discussions about trades-unions. They are the
Forgotten Men. But, since they want to get into the trade and win their living in it, it is
fair to suppose that they are fit for it, would succeed at it, would do well for themselves
and society in it; that is to say, that, of all persons interested or concerned, they most
deserve our sympathy and attention.

The cases already mentioned involve no legislation. Society, however, maintains police, sheriffs,
and various institutions, the object of which is to protect people against themselves--that
is, against their own vices. Almost all legislative effort to prevent vice is really protective
of vice, because all such legislation saves the vicious man from the penalty of his vice. Nature's
remedies against vice are terrible. She removes the victims without pity. A drunkard in the
gutter is just where he ought to be, according to the fitness and tendency of things. Nature
has set up on him the process of decline and dissolution by which she removes things which
have survived their usefulness. Gambling and other less mentionable vices carry their own penalties
with them.

Now, we never can annihilate a penalty. We can only divert it from the head of the man who
has incurred it to the heads of others who have not incurred it. A vast amount of "social reform"
consists in just this operation. The consequence is that those who have gone astray, being
relieved from Nature's fierce discipline, go on to worse, and that there is a constantly heavier
burden for the others to bear. Who are the others? When we see a drunkard in the gutter we
pity him. If a policeman picks him up, we say that society has interfered to save him from
perishing. "Society" is a fine word, and it saves us the trouble of thinking. The industrious
and sober workman, who is mulcted of a percentage of his day's wages to pay the policeman,
is the one who bears the penalty. But he is the Forgotten Man. He passes by and is never noticed,
because he has behaved himself, fulfilled his contracts, and asked for nothing.

The fallacy of all prohibitory, sumptuary, and moral legislation is the same. A and B determine
to be teetotalers, which is often a wise determination, and sometimes a necessary one. If A
and B are moved by considerations which seem to them good, that is enough. But A and B put
their heads together to get a law passed which shall force C to be a teetotaler for the sake
of D, who is in danger of drinking too much. There is no pressure on A and B. They are having
their own way, and they like it. There is rarely any pressure on D. He does not like it, and
evades it. The pressure all comes on C. The question then arises, Who is C? He is the man who
wants alcoholic liquors for any honest purpose whatsoever, who would use his liberty without
abusing it, who would occasion no public question, and trouble nobody at all. He is the Forgotten
Man again, and as soon as he is drawn from his obscurity we see that he is just what each one
of us ought to be.

X.

THE CASE OF THE FORGOTTEN MAN FARTHER CONSIDERED.

There is a beautiful notion afloat in our literature and in the minds of our people that men
are born to certain "natural rights." If that were true, there would be something on earth
which was got for nothing, and this world would not be the place it is at all. The fact is,
that there is no right whatever inherited by man which has not an equivalent and corresponding
duty by the side of it, as the price of it. The rights, advantages, capital, knowledge, and
all other goods which we inherit from past generations have been won by the struggles and sufferings
of past generations; and the fact that the race lives, though men die, and that the race can
by heredity accumulate within some cycle its victories over Nature, is one of the facts which
make civilization possible. The struggles of the race as a whole produce the possessions of
the race as a whole. Something for nothing is not to be found on earth.

If there were such things as natural rights, the question would arise, Against whom are they
good? Who has the corresponding obligation to satisfy these rights? There can be no rights
against Nature, except to get out of her whatever we can, which is only the fact of the struggle
for existence stated over again. The common assertion is, that the rights are good against
society; that is, that society is bound to obtain and secure them for the persons interested.
Society, however, is only the persons interested plus some other persons; and as the persons
interested have by the hypothesis failed to win the rights, we come to this, that natural rights
are the claims which certain persons have by prerogative against some other persons. Such is
the actual interpretation in practice of natural rights--claims which some people have by prerogative
on other people.

