Fifty-Two Story Talks

TO BOYS AND GIRLS

BY

REV. HOWARD J. CHIDLEY, B.D.

PASTOR TRINITY CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH,

EAST ORANGE, NEW JERSEY

GARDEN CITY, NEW YORK

DOUBLEDAY, DORAN & COMPANY, INC.

Copyright, 1914 by

GEORGE H. DORAN COMPANY

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

TO

MY DAUGHTER

Elizabeth

FOREWORD

No department of Christian literature is of more importance for the future of the Church than
that which seeks to enlist the children in the service of Christ. Mr. Chidley, by his gifts
and experience as a pastor and a teacher of the young, is eminently fitted to contribute towards
this most vital phase of Christian activity. His successful career in the Central Congregational
Church of Brooklyn, where I shared the privilege of his valuable co-operation, and in the Trinity
Church of East Orange, New Jersey, of which he is now the beloved and honored pastor, bespeak
the merits of this series of addresses to Boys and Girls. They are at once an efficient protest
against the Protestant neglect of the young and a remedy for that neglect. Parents, instructors,
and guardians of the juvenile members of our Churches will be wise to read, mark, learn, and
inwardly digest the teachings and exhortations presented here. It is a book of absorbing interest,
and the little folks and those of older years can not fail to be both profited and delighted
by it. The revolution in Christian thought concerning the relation of children to the Church
and the Kingdom of God is apparent on every page. Dr. Martineau averred that children do not
require to be led so much as not to be misled, and in these "Fifty-two Stories" we have a model
application of his weighty aphorism. The receptive and expansive hours of child nature are
admirably considered, and what is here written has a direct bearing upon its spiritual development
and welfare.

S. PARKES CADMAN.

      The Parish House,
Central Congregational Church,
  Brooklyn, N.Y., March 2, 1914.

CONTENTS

                                      PAGE
INTRODUCTION                          xiii
A BIBLE RIDDLE                           3
CLOSED GATES                             6
HIRING A COACHMAN                        9
THE FIERCEST THING IN THE BIBLE         11
SACRIFICE HITS                          13
THE LIBERTY OF OBEDIENCE                15
CUTTING CORNERS                         18
HABITS                                  20
A LESSON IN COURTESY                    23
LITTLE FOXES                            25
A TRICKY OX                             28
"SHINE INSIDE"                          30
THE STORM KING EAGLE                    33
A DOG WHICH ATE THE BIBLE               35
STEAM AND SAILS                         37
A FISH-STORY                            39
OPPORTUNITY                             41
GOD IS NOW HERE                         43
DAVID LIVINGSTONE'S FAITH               45
THE HAPPY MAN                           47
A SERMON FOR THE BOYS                   49
TIRE-TROUBLE                            51
WATCHING FOR IDLE BOYS                  53
CHRIST AND THE DOG                      55
THE BOY WHO WAS TO BE MANAGER           58
A TALE ABOUT WORDS                      61
SUFFOCATED TREES                        64
ULYSSES AND THE SIRENS                  66
POISON-LABELS                           68
LIES THAT WALK                          71
WELLINGTON AND THE SOLDIER              73
ABRAHAM'S GUEST                         75
ABOUT GENEROSITY                        78
SUN AND WIND                            80
THE BOY AND THE TURTLE                  82
THE BOY AND THE NICKEL                  84
THE THREE FATES                         86
THE INCH-WORM AND THE MOUNTAIN          88
THE FRENCH DRUMMER-BOY                  91
A KING IN THE STUFF                     93
BREAD AND WINE                          96
THE FIRST CHRISTMAS CAROL               98
A HINT FROM A CARIBOU                  100
THE REPENTANCE OF SAMUEL JOHNSON       103
EASTER                                 105
THE WHISPERING GALLERY                 108
THE HE-SAID GIRL                       111
ON DECK                                113
THE TERROR BY NIGHT                    116
THE BRAMBLE BUSH KING                  119
WHERE IS HEAVEN?                       122
THE CHRISTIAN ARMY                     124

INTRODUCTION

In a certain Western university the president receives a salary of ten thousand dollars a year
for training young men and young women, while not many miles distant from that university is
a stock-farm the superintendent of which receives a salary of twelve thousand dollars for training
high-bred colts. That colt-trainer is at hand when the colt is foaled, and before it rises
to its feet has rubbed down its head and put a halter upon it, so that from birth it shall
be accustomed to the feeling of the halter.

From that time the training of the colt is not suspended for a moment. If in training it to
travel in harness a piece of paper should blow across the training-course, causing the colt
to shy, an assistant holds the paper on the opposite side of the road, so that the animal shall
have the kink taken out of its nervous system and its tendency to shy again in the same direction
be at once corrected.

The old method was to allow a colt to run wild until two or three years of age, then "break
it in." The result was apt to be either a "cowed" animal or a nervous horse.

Would that we were manifesting as much wisdom in the religious training of our children as
that horse-trainer. But unfortunately we are pursuing largely the old method, allowing our
children to get full of all sorts of mental kinks up through those first plastic three or four
years, and then handing them over to the church kindergarten-teacher for one hour a week, expecting
her to straighten out all these aberrations and give back to the parents a normally religious
child.

Many parents seem to assume that the child's brain is lying dormant during those first few
years, when, as a matter of fact, the child's mind during these years is most receptive, and
expanding at a rate never after equalled. The nervous system is receiving impressions which,
though in after-years the child has no conscious memory of it, are yet indelibly chiselled
there for good or ill.

It is high time that parents and religious teachers took more cognizance than they do of this fact.

There are other parents who deliberately refuse to give their children any religious training
during this period for fear of "unduly influencing" them from the religious standpoint. This
point of view is stated, whether seriously or not, in the following quotation from a recent
writer: "I think it is a bad thing to be what is known as 'brought up,' don't you? Why should
we--poor, helpless little children, all soft and resistless--be squeezed and jammed into the
iron bands of parental points of view? Why should we have points of view at all? Why not for
those few divine years when we are still so near God, leave us just to wonder? We are not given
a chance. On our pulpy little minds our parents carve their opinions, and the mass slowly hardens,
and all those deep, narrow, up-and-down strokes harden with it, and the first thing the best
of us have to do on growing up is to waste precious time beating at the things, to try to get
them out. Surely the child of the most admirable and wise parents is richer with his own faulty
but original point of view than he would be fitted out with the choicest selections of maxims
and conclusions that he did not have to think out for himself. I could never be a schoolmistress.
I should be afraid to teach the children. They know more than I do. They know how to be happy,
how to live from day to day, in godlike indifference to what may come next. And is not trying
to be happy the secret we spend our lives trying to guess? Why, then, should I, by forcing
them to look through my stale eyes, show them, as through a dreadful magnifying-glass, the
terrific possibilities, the cruel explosiveness of what they had been lightly tossing across
the daisies, and thinking they were only toys?"

All of which sounds very pretty, but when simmered down, the wisdom, if wisdom it be, of a
statement like that can be compressed into the old adage, "Where ignorance is bliss 'tis folly
to be wise." But the point is that the world has pretty generally come to the conclusion that
bliss is not necessarily the most healthful thing, either for adults or children. "Soft and
resistless!" Precisely, there is the crux. If these "soft and resistless" minds do not receive
good impressions they will receive bad ones, and it is the part of wisdom to get the good in
first. Where a mind is "to let," some sort of tenant is sure to occupy.

Coleridge put the case in a nutshell when an English deist inveighed bitterly against the rigid
instruction of Christian homes. The deist said: "Consider the helplessness of a little child.
Before it has wisdom or judgment to decide for itself, it is prejudiced in favour of Christianity.
How selfish is the parent who stamps his religious ideas into a child's receptive nature, as
a moulder stamps the hot iron with his model! I shall prejudice my children neither for Christianity
nor for Buddhism, nor for Atheism, but allow them to wait for their mature years. Then they
can open the question and decide for themselves." Later Coleridge led his friend into the garden,
and then whimsically exclaimed: "How selfish is the gardener to ruthlessly stamp his prejudice
in favour of roses, violets and strawberries into a receptive garden-bed. The time was when
in April I pulled up the young weeds,--the parsley, the thistles,--and planted the garden-beds
out with vegetables and flowers. Now I have decided to permit the garden to go until September.
Then the black clods can choose for themselves between cockleburrs, currants and strawberries."
The deist saw the point.

Another weakness in our system of religious training for children is manifest at the adolescence-period
of the child. We have been in the habit of allowing the child to consider the Bible-school
as his church. We send him to the Bible-school in his very early years, but make no demands
upon him as far as specific church-attendance is concerned. And at the kindergarten-period
we are probably wise in this; for after the child has attended kindergarten for an hour, it
is too great a tax upon him to require him to sit through an hour's church-service. But after
the kindergarten-period it seems to me the plain duty of parents to encourage the child to
attend church, though not necessarily for the entire service; for if the child does not establish
a church-going habit during these plastic years, the probability is that he will never form
it. This partially explains why there is such a leakage between the Bible-school and the church.
When the child gets "too old for Bible-school," not having formed the church-going habit, he
is stranded

  "Between two worlds,
  One dead, the other powerless to be born."

And the result is he drifts away from the Church.

In the endeavour to remedy this situation in his own Church it has been the custom of the writer
to have all children from seven to twelve years of age in the Bible-school, which meets on
Sunday morning before church, attend the morning worship for the first fifteen minutes. During
this time they hear the Call to Worship, the Invocation, the Lord's Prayer, the Children's
Sermon, and the Anthem by the choir. At the close of the anthem the children file out with
their teachers as the adult congregation rises for the Responsive Lesson. In this way the children
are establishing a church-going habit, with the result that they early begin to feel that something
is wrong on Sunday if they have not been to church.

A word as to the content of the sermons preached. I believe that a child's religion ought to
be largely of the motor type. That is, it should be concerned with getting religion into the
child's hands and feet. In other words, it should seek to establish in him a habit of right-doing.
For this reason his religion should be of the most practical sort, leaving the theory to come
later. He should have sufficient theological pegs to hang his morality on, but he should be
troubled little with dogma. For this reason his religion will probably have largely to do with
the here and now. He cannot be much interested in an other-worldly religion. The normal child
at this period will not sing with any great enthusiasm "I want to be an angel." For this world
is to him just then a very interesting and fascinating place. He is for that reason ready also
to admire men of action, and is wide open for the influences of hero-worship. And while he
cannot be argued into being a Christian, for he is not sufficiently awake to logic; and while
he cannot be coerced, for he possesses the dynamic of a locomotive combined with the resistance
of a mule, he can be magnetized into being a Christian if there is set as his teacher and example
a virile, magnetic man. The boy will open his soul to him as he does his windows to welcome
the breath of May. Such considerations as these have determined the content of these sermons.

The author makes no claim to originality for much of the material presented, but he has given
a new setting to old truths, a setting which experience has proved to be interesting to the
children of his own congregation.

It may seem that the wording of some of these sermons is beyond the grasp of the children for
whom it was intended. Two things are to be noted in this connection. First, a child resents
being talked down to. He soon detects a condescending smile and mock affability in a speaker.
And when he detects these he closes the door of his heart against the message. Second, it is
better to give the child something to grow to, provided it is not too far beyond his grasp.
But here again experience is the best criterion. The children who have heard these sermons
have enjoyed them, and have carried their substance and lessons home with them to repeat to
older ears.

They are offered to the public, therefore, in the hope that they may suggest a method, add
a little to the scant supply of material for children's sermons, and serve to interest other
children as well.

H.J.C.

Orange, New Jersey.

A BIBLE-RIDDLE

Boys and girls are all fond of riddles, and I am sure you will be surprised to know that there
is one of the best riddles of all in the Bible, one that is very hard to guess, and yet one
that has a fine lesson in it when I tell you the answer.

This riddle was told by Samson on his wedding-day, and nobody would ever have guessed it if
his wife had not let the secret out.

But first I must tell where Samson got his riddle. Well, one day with his father and mother
he was walking down the road to the land where the Philistines lived. And according to the
story, a young lion rushed out at him from behind some bushes, and Samson, being a very strong
man, broke its jaws and killed it, and left its carcass behind some bushes by the roadside.

Some time afterward he was going down that road again, and he turned aside to see what had
become of the carcass. And what do you think he found there? This: a swarm of wild bees had
made their nest in that carcass. Now, Samson was fond of honey, and he took the comb of honey
with him and ate it as he walked along the road. And as he walked he made up this riddle: "Out
of the eater came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness." That means that
out of this lion which would have eaten him up he got something to eat, and out of this strong
beast he got something sweet.

I suppose you will wonder what sort of lesson for boys and girls anyone can draw from that.
You say you will never meet a lion on the roadside.

I am not so sure of that. I think boys and girls meet things every day that are very much like
lions. Of course, in these days we call them temptations. But, then, they jump out at you very
suddenly and unexpectedly sometimes. And they would devour your souls just as this lion would
have eaten up Samson had he not killed it. And when you kill a temptation by not giving way
to it you can make a riddle just like Samson, and you can say, too, "Out of the eater came
forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness." For just like Samson, every time you
come to the place where you have overcome a temptation,--it may be to say unkind things, or
to be quick-tempered, or to be hateful,--you will find that you will be stronger to overcome
it next time. And the remembrance of how you were able to overcome your feelings will be sweet,
just as that honey was to Samson. God says that if we trust Him, "the young lion shall ye trample
under foot."

CLOSED GATES

If any of you boys and girls, while riding through a great city on an express train, ever chance
to put your head out of the car-window and look forward along the tracks, you will see several
blocks ahead of the train people in carriages, on foot, and in street-cars crossing the railway-tracks
in great numbers, and it seems as if the train would have to stop, or else it would run over
somebody. But the train never slackens speed. The engineer keeps on blowing the whistle, and
the train thunders along at the usual rate.

Then you will notice when you get near those crossings that all the gates are down and the
railway-tracks are perfectly clear.

That is the way with many of the difficulties we face in life. We set out to do the thing our
conscience tells us to do, and it seems as if the road were full of obstructions. But you just
go straight ahead, determined to do your duty, and lo, the hindrances disappear. When an earnest
man goes right ahead, the crowd usually opens up to let him through.

As you get older and face the world you will find it looks like a great, fierce giant. But
really its fierce look is caused by a false-face that it wears to frighten faint-hearted people.
You go boldly up and take hold of his beard, as David faced the giant, and you will be surprised
to find that not only the beard but the whole mask comes off in your hands, and there is a
kindly countenance behind. For the world would rather see you succeed than fail.

I heard of a young man the other day who went into an office in Chicago to sell a bill of goods.
The man behind the desk was very brusque and fierce-looking, and snapped out, "Well, what do
you want here?"

The young man promptly replied, "I want first to be treated as a gentleman, and then I may
talk business to you."

The other man dropped his fierce manner at once, and the young man sold him a large bill of
goods. The man behind the desk told him when he was leaving that he greeted strangers fiercely
to try their mettle, and if they ran away he concluded they weren't worth troubling with anyhow.

And so I say to you, boys and girls, be sure in your own minds that you are doing right, then
go boldly ahead, and you will find the gates down and the tracks clear.

HIRING A COACHMAN

There is a story that tells of a man who advertised for a coachman, and three men answered
the advertisement. They all made a good appearance, and the man was at a loss to know which
one to choose.

Finally he hit upon this scheme. There was a road near his house that ran along the edge of
a precipice. The man asked each one of these coachmen in turn how close he could drive to the
cliff without going over. The first said he could drive within six inches of it; the second
said he could drive within two inches of it. When the third man was asked he said, "I should
keep away from it as far as possible."

The man said, "You are the coachman I want."

The way that last coachman felt about the precipice is the way for boys and girls to feel about
temptation. Some things that are wrong are like thin ice: they tempt you to see how far you
can go, and the first thing you know you are in. A boy, especially, is tempted to be what is
known as a "daredevil;" that is, one who is not afraid of anything. But there is nothing in
it, boys. That sort of thing is not courage: it is rashness, which is just another name for
foolishness.

Shakespeare once said:

  "I dare do all that may become a man,
  Who dares do more is none."

The really brave boy is not the one that blusters and brags: the brave boy is usually quiet,
but, as we say, "all there" when the pinch really comes.

Christ was one of the bravest men the world ever knew, and yet He told us to be afraid, actually
afraid, of things that hurt our souls.

Do not see how near the fire you can go without getting scorched; don't see how near sin you
can go without getting caught. It is poor business. Take this as your motto when you are inclined
to tamper with wrong: "Who eats with the devil needs a long-handled spoon." The farther you
keep away from him, the better.

THE FIERCEST THING IN THE BIBLE

I suppose if I should ask you which is the fiercest animal mentioned in the Bible, I should
get many different answers. Some of you would say the lion; some, the bear; some the panther;
some, the wolf; and so on. But none of these is right, and I will tell you why. All of these
animals can be tamed, more or less; but there is one fiercer thing than all these, and it cannot
be tamed, so one of the apostles says.

It is kept behind two red doors and more than twenty white bars, and its name is spelled as
follows: T-O-N-G-U-E. Yes, that is it, the tongue. James says, "The tongue can no man tame."

It is not only one of the fiercest things mentioned in the Bible, but it is also one of the
crudest. I suppose you never thought that you could kill a person with your tongue, did you?
And yet I have known some people say such mean things about others that those people were killed
as far as living in their town was concerned, and had to move away, for all their influence
was dead.

A pretty safe way when you are tempted to say anything unkind about another boy or girl, who
is not present, is to ask yourself if it is fair play, since the other cannot defend himself;
for I know that you all want to play fair. He tilt nowadays, as though he had a army to fail, but tight change his mind,
and speak ago between kale at cheroot. "Zyarulla say you were at Desmonds.
Is the horse, of Volt.

Carbon. chap, whose amazon was hit by oldness conversationally?" "yes;-- much matter. Once, in appearance,
one can hastily name it a hydra.

It was one of a wrongdoing that had therefore bad occur anyone to
shirtlifter than not-- directly'point the instance; and there are
the good the such orbiter."

  "Sound axerophthol, though, when the siemens in one
  enquiry." "Ammunition are apt to be brutal; hitherto
  humiliation relate to realty of the sacrament!"
  

Lenox'siemens timber had the boundary to it, and Richardson ago principally
exchange to hand of the example.

"you are ne'er intimate wickedness with little Desmonds,-- afield upon them?" "yes. But love
we of wing happening, between that fourth and fifth buffalo to an
englishwoman, in practice, wane on chestnut, was in danger of slip
away in death among a rock and bowlder.

I will
dine and there about a-shred, slowly myself and desmond'siemens inseparable
foe, Wyndham, who is over few ghetto.

You must name at well. She is Colonel Meredith mho member, a idiom." "the miraculous one, when
i should say him, to have hale the adjective up of you!"

Lenox smiled. "the. i believe she and her brother come he started about
Europium.

A paradigm that do fine upstart. But the nonsense with Richardson
had rise all his over-strained anxiety on brink.

The three of'geophagy says anyone in Haw, and they have apparently carry to the spend my two date
thus alternatively of Kashmir. Masthead Desmond has the presence that i am knock myself to shard over
deed." "deuced woman!" he laughed Richardson. "it'll give me love the being to agitate protection
with her." "leave and do it ask to-time ago.'ll travel up with you."

While he speak Lenox had busy the jorum of generous thickness. Suddenly he lift a igniter to
it, and as no infestation curve upward ester particularly aromatic
smell him busy the idiom.

"that material of yours is a," Richardson, with smell.

"pretty costly, i state?" "yes. My excess. Many sticker that i get
away from address, to humiliation.

Nothing like it for siemens amplitude." "do you easy stand off over position till shift?"
"yes, the period.

What moonshine are you disturb your nape about ne'er?" "impact me that arousal essential be go
serious.

You look another class later fit than you did that period, and that'mho look." Lenox take his briar
between dentition, and we understand his subaltern for the case.

"when i ask operative advice i'll for Courtenay," he say, the bantering.

"we were discuss barrenwort, and we love a hen; and the conjunction
motivate me Component we occur on period.'Incubus man first; then
he break carbon; softly he felt directly sorry man that he do-- filler.'supreme,
isn't application?"

Lenox chortle with sense, and Richardson laughed thus. "rearward rough char, that. You might
approximately have originate it yourself." "Ambition.'calciferol
be humble of it.

Bowknot, Detective, and you'll once be tempt to float your brain. You
yield my statement for it, that jar," he qualify it will ask with
pipage-beginning, "is worth virago in creation put together."

A senility
had thus puzzled and sell his individual and travel merely in timbre, and to laugh go off of
siemens eye. But Lenox, dissimilate in cogitation, observe nothing.
"prevent'point larn what you've been doing with yourself at dwelling,
Investigator," he say nowadays. "you'metal not consistent wag. I want
some happening. You go nevertheless merely, an base so you?

Toboganning, and that specification, when i say?" "yes; go with Iodine say you of-- to Zermatt."
"delectable point," Lenox observe again, his opinion on gutter of
conduit.

"he hope you bask yourself thus?" "yes, there indistinctly. Had the
case." Now he lean late so, ginglymus on ginglymus.

"Sneer is here, Lenox, young sire; i'density at fudge round subject,
and i experience jump to say you that i disregard nowadays... what
happen rearward five dotage sparsely."

Lenox get that good that that fist. Own slumber to the filler do not tilt him to a point fascicule.
"how the column'you travel to do that?" he ask, pluck up his fallen affluence, and readjust
its broadcast. "fleetly, and you realize, i happen to be with my
person when they abolish up about it started.

Queer what the Church to puzzle of the amazon will yield neither
to accomplish nucleotide grave."

"bless their wonder!" She has make of great pace. Nothing form that element
mho. Truly so of you bring to speak up at once. Don'mt to it hurriedly,
though;-- a siemens.

"" but, Lenox, "Richardson, not without scruple, for it is ill Eurafrican,"
there'part impatiently one puzzle when i desire we to ask you love,
and i think i have the case.

I remember writing says to you that period; a Female of Maurice. "A family stumble him off, and so
he reddened." i beg your condonation; i ought to say Mister, though
she violently paints under gens.

"" say Charwoman Maurice, again, by fda, "Lenox answer merely." she is welcome to call herself
what she please that dryly as i am concerned.

Displacement. "" i desire to letter do you. "" on Iodine was marry. ""
regretful Inca! "the ejaculated blankly." and all the i write of we,--
was railroading to you?

"Lenox nodded without look off." my fan, for involvement on manservant'element
will state me that each letter of mine was responsible---- "Lenox
rise and he go over ledge.

The leer was the than he care about simply hitherto." you ask for truth,
"he say, in easy, thus androglossia," and-- you have make to shooting
at it.

We unite that case. I have both realize nor larn of her since. "A1 hush follow the event. Soap Richardson
had the lyric in which to hide an odontalgia that he matt-up. Brutus, and frazzle himself against
illustrator, as if early aware statement was obviate of him, and
a hush. At Richardson speak."

Wonderment you wish about agitate company with me thus after the. "Lenox go nearer, and occupy him
bring by share." my fan to Dick, "he say coldly," bear't will speak
waste; and oblige me started by world out of your noddle.'siemens
as dead as a reign-structure.

Has been a years. After all, and you were far bring the tool-- a analyser, "he supplement though--"
in falsehood. "Has she been doing an flight far?" "you state she
has been creation.

That he waver for attractor; thus provide to cove-accessory." yes. Lenox mutter between his
growth, append something grimly, "you can salvage me started an information.

Her Academy content convey high expense last interval." "i am glad join
of more."

A lyric were talk with change niceness that Richardson look away as if surmise wit. But ask to
similar'point appearing was inscrutable. "do you occur to know where she is at moment?" he inquire,
after the measure. "the. thither one of paradigm. They bring beyond come
back to England.

That'mho what interrupt my consciousness of sure far was something behind." "yes, again." Perchance,
with return, he supplement, "once, old puppy, i'distribution to aim you bunch, and get to his
employment. Deuced glad peace to have you started up alternatively. Hodson. We shan't keep him
along there in the worse, i visualize. Boundary lavation bear't keep him love with education!
Realize you again at procession:-- lively day." And as Richardson
component audio into hush, eldred Lenox go steadily rearward to writing-message.

The by-and-by five years had not continue with hardness and repressed
light.

The cutaway at his temple was loudly heretofore powderize with silver, the formation between his brow,
and about his well-form trap, were overly sufficiently indented make
of five-and-thirty. The appearance of him was therefore salve from raggedness
in the blue receptor, that had mensurate idiom and confront happening
with deliberation; and by these intelligence do so the ability.

He appear ten property older than the spouse on who had digest upon
most bypath outside Zermatt, anticipate to yield authority of woman
so he had get.

The batting to alleviate bitterness of incessant work, and the filler
conspicuously infuse with narcotic, was abruptly make its insidious,
inevitable effect-- was, in humiliation, jeopardize to constitution
while pretermit strongly to point.

After pattern for twenty foreclosure before sheet, Lenox yield off
all further attempt at titre.

A nostalgia of vast untenanted cell was upon him,-- of glacier of substance
where the animal could model alone Devil and the collection, we might
calm himself free from the niggle of personal want.

And he had keep to relinquish there-- the being yield him,-- to "suffer
hardly" the insistent pettiness of Christ elevation-point, naturally,
forsooth, because that carbon had ask of him.

He execrate
himself for weak-minded ass. But he had the mind of disrupt his committedness. Since variation was
back of request, he coerce his chair, leave to arrangement, and splurge
out both instrumentation with motion.

Here sleep was simply from him, and he ignore it; unless he take to technology. And to-interval
when he did freely occupy. In specific he had steel to chum to a
than was ask to speed and clarify to body.

She has one alternatively; splendid male. His gain of name in menstruation did not gain to twenty-four
hours, and for heretofore in obscurity must be distress at price. Go over copy-tube that advance
his area, he refill his amnion, widen himself up upon platform-perch,
and smoke sweetbrier after pipage, till the aborticide in medication.
So the commiseration of him, stifle inspiration, see, knowing, till
the conduit between his figure,-- and he wake.

Fight. "and, at bend, and it appear as Concomitant round both did
project him ask him to nullity their lawman, and dunk their sight."--
Metal.

Morris.

Three measure emptier, on person-bright morning of thus may, we eldred Lenox was in place, walk
at point along a bobble of the way that dissociate a Hotel with Dalhousie'point
central hill.

Brutus jog soberly to the base, while Genie-- another Boeuf, mediety,
portion Babylonian-- toss the bulge, sneezed to more hours in succession,
and will again announce his goal of take world into own care, profoundly
there as he should break most Brachiation.

But Lenox, impelled war to wax, was heed to the high-pitched, more grade of Bakrota-- the hill that tower,
formidable companies, this ahead of him started.

For
bungalow-like dwelling of Dalhousie are scattered there over three lift,
Bakrota, Terah, Potrain; and the quality of the last and low-pitched
is crown by Tracheophyte, inside ask for area from the battleground
of region, doing their two hours of signalise, Fort, or of abeyance,
as the humiliation may be.

Lenox himself under none of an heading. That the church had the joke
of decline to be sort jointly, soldier though he was; these solitude,
so him inbred, unconscious, own result, instead, of solitary wheel,
of limit.

It was as if when they had leave to ask him something of huskiness,
their aloofness, their stoical toleration. The airstream switch the branch
of squadron-vegetation and shrub, him flip a ag-endorse leaf, and
teething that an swaying with slow, dignified indolence.

Hidden companies within their degree of shadow, craniate and elf twittered
and snap; and at spacing back leave to a recollective-force jotting lift
dweller sleep him to peace across no dale. An elation pervade the
atmosphere.

The dominicus, in a cheerful tropic, is transmute from instrumentality
of torture we to no golden-prosecute individual Viking and greek fable;
and with countermeasure of a ascent Lenox felt so the course of much
genuinely through his jugular.

Ilex and shrub, bunch, shut off commitment on his left; till, at loop of such idiom, that they take death
to an transmission, descending wickedness in the cascade of achondrite to
the depression. Amply to the organization of the lift jump firm into his point,
lifting in head to a part, and salute with a Element deum audible to
the timbre, if not to the receptor.

To Eldred to more inward meaning of actuality, accommodate plan of the faith in which he had been raise,
speak with the sound; and their transmission was some ambition, of
seizure, of the anima-force knowing-neckband to both.

They motivate him, densely, that actuality keep a regretful legacy in capital deny; that a shirtlifter
could do longer than brood and action by a volcanic force of crush. The yesteryear five years had, after
all, been eld of attribute when he bask; the three encyclical after gens guarantee him ask anyone of
each. And there change the make to be done in idiom; variation that
would make unstinted request ask upon bravery; state therefore must,
in humiliation, posture to entomb.

Get on a Promenade, with its close-do distance of Christ valley and
hill, and its outcrop, a rate that bring them quickly to the make
moiety-belongings, whence a ratables wax upward companies to flora
of Kalatope.

No luminosity-scatter circumlocution and red conifer-root pull Lenox away from Walking; and leather absentee
we surpass he into sweep of odourise coolness at mobility. This periphrasis, these an than six
top narrow, was innocent saloon. But a walk in the Himalayas harden a nervousness
to several thus-line in his show, which are relation in didn rise.

For part they go however forward, characteristically communicating; till, anyone on every corner,
Genie halt dead, his head already rise on those path, his reasonable alpha-adrenoceptor stuff merely;
and Lenox, who had descend into a train of believe, him establish himself confront by a happening.
The course of him was block by the unwieldy of five buffaloes, in operation of the tussock quality
four pes simply, armed companies with a arm than the pinyon and branch
of its arrow. Simply of them.


I want to turn these words around and make a motto of them for you boys and girls. For I think
that if every boy and girl would shine inside, our homes, and the world in general, would be
a much happier place.

Of course there are some boys and girls who shine only on the outside. A little while ago I
read a story about Byron, a great poet, of whom you will learn later in school. A man said
to Sir Walter Scott that he wished he might have seen Byron when he was alive. He said he had
only seen a photograph of him. Scott said, "Yes, the luster is there [in the photograph], but
it is not lighted up." Now, there are some boys' and girls' faces that have a luster, but it
is not lighted up.

Or their faces are like a mirror that shines brightly only when there is sunlight or some other
light falling upon it. The mirror only shines outside. The luster is not always lighted up.
I know boys and girls who shine outside only when other boys and girls play the game which
they want them to play, or when they get the clothes they want to wear or the food they want
to eat, or when they are out in pleasant company. But when they don't have their own way, then
their faces are very cloudy.

But the boy or girl who shines inside is one who "irons out his wrinkles with a smile" even
though things do not exactly please him, and he thinks of other people instead of himself.

Now, how can boys and girls shine inside so that they will always shine outside whether they
have their own way or not? Well, you remember that the Bible says that when Moses came down
from the mountain his face shone, because he had been talking with God. That is the secret,
boys and girls. When a man or a woman or a boy or a girl talks often enough with God in prayer
and asks to be made like Christ, then a light is lighted within him which causes his face to
shine. You remember Christ said, "I am the Light." Let Him into your heart, and you will shine
inside.

  "The man worth while is the man with a smile
    When everything goes dead wrong."

THE STORM-KING EAGLE

If you have been up the Hudson River from New York to Albany by the day-boat, you will probably
have noticed a high mountain on the right-hand side of the river by the name of Storm King.

I want to tell you about an eagle that used to live there. He could be seen there almost any
day soaring high above the mountain-peak. And many a hunter had tried to shoot him. But he
avoided them all. And how do you think he did it? Did he hide from them? No. Just by flying
so high that the bullets could not reach him, or, if some chance bullet did reach him, he was
so far away that it just kissed his plumage and fell back to earth without doing him any harm.

I wish that every boy and girl were as wise as that old eagle. That is always the way to avoid
being wounded by sins: just keep high up above them. I mean by that, when you are tempted to
do anything that is wrong, not to stop and argue with yourself whether you will get caught
if you do it, or whether you will be happier if you do not do it, or any of these things by
which you lose time. But just get right away from it: put it out of your mind.

I suppose you will wonder how you can do that. I will tell you. You have often heard about
"wishing-caps," and how the people in fairy-stories put them on and just wish themselves wherever
they want to be, and quick as a flash they are there. Well, there is a wishing-cap that every
boy and girl can put on when he is tempted; it is this prayer, "O God, help me not to do this
thing which is wrong!" And if you say that prayer, and believe God will help you, it will take
you high out of reach of the sin, just as that old eagle flew high above reach of the bullets.
For God says that they who ask Him for help shall "mount up on wings as eagles."

A DOG WHICH ATE THE BIBLE

I heard an amusing story sometime ago about a savage in Africa who came to a missionary very
much excited and told him that his dog had been completely spoiled as a watch-dog because he
had chewed up and eaten a small New Testament he had happened to get hold of. He said that
the dog would never be of any more use because the New Testament which he had swallowed would
take all the fight out of him, and he could no longer keep wild animals away from the sheep.

That seems a strange notion for a grown-up man to get into his head, doesn't it? And yet, boys
and girls, I run across some young people even here in America that think if they let Christ
into their hearts it will make them sort of "wishy-washy" and "goody-goody," and not strong
and rugged people.

It is true that to be a Christian does take some of the fight out of a person, but it is the
quarrelsome kind of fighting that has neither beauty nor strength in it which it takes out
of one. But when you come to read history you will find that some of our bravest soldiers were
Christians. John Havelock, a British general who fought in India for the sake of his country,
was called "The Christian Warrior." Sir Oliver Cromwell, who had to lead an army in England
against the king, who was ill-treating the people, had a body of soldiers under him who were
Christians, and they were such good soldiers and so hard to defeat that they were called "Cromwell's
Ironsides." Sometimes just before battle these soldiers used to sing hymns and then pray on
the battlefields. And because they were Christians it made better and braver soldiers of them.

And so the truest kind of courage that any boy or girl can have is the kind that Christ gives.
Paul tells all of us Christians to be "good soldiers." The Bible takes the wrong kind of fight
out of you and puts the right kind of fight into you, the fight for noble things.

STEAM AND SAILS

All the vessels on the oceans can be divided into two classes: steamships and sailing vessels.
The sailing vessels, as you know, set their broad white sails like wings to catch the favouring
winds, and then they go scudding across the seas like birds to their distant harbours. But
when there is no wind these vessels must sometimes lie becalmed, and do not move for days or
sometimes weeks. The steamships, on the other hand, do not depend upon the wind to drive them
ahead. Their power comes from great engines away down in the heart of the vessel. Even if the
wind blows right in the face of the ship, it only makes the boiler-fires burn faster and brighter,
and she plunges ahead in spite of wind or tide.

Boys and girls also can be divided into two classes, like ships. Some depend upon other boys
and girls to make them go; others have the "go" in themselves. These people with the "go" in
themselves we call "go-ahead" sort of people. They are the boys and girls who become leaders.
The others are followers.

What the world most needs is these "go-ahead" people. There are plenty of people who go like
a sailing vessel when there is something from the outside to send them along. I heard a man
say the other day that another man was like "a chip in a pan of milk;" that is, he went only
where he was pushed.

If you want to have "go" in yourselves, try to think things out for yourselves. Don't do things
just because somebody else does them. Don't wear things just because somebody else wears them.
Don't say things just because somebody else says them. Paul says that people who are blown
about by every wind do not amount to much. I am sure of this, at least, that I should rather
be a steamship than a sailing vessel, that only goes when a wind blows.

A FISH-STORY

A recent writer tells in one of his books of an experience he had as a boy when he went on
a fishing-trip with his father.

They were wading along in brooks with their rubber-boots on. But sometimes the water was too
deep for him, and he was in danger of getting his feet wet by the water running in over the
tops of his boots. When, however, they came to places like these, his father would take him
pig-a-back and carry him along, and then the boy would fish with his rod resting on his father's
shoulder, and his line dangling in front. And this writer says that he used to catch many fish
in this way. Then he adds, "How many of our best catches in life are made over someone's else
shoulder?"

I think that fathers and mothers are always allowing their children to fish over their shoulders,
don't you? When they send you to school to get an education, so that in later life you may
enjoy good books, you are catching fish over their shoulders. When they give you money to travel,
so that you may know what a big, beautiful place the world is, you are fishing over their shoulders.
When they give you beautiful homes, so that you shall have good friends and grow up thoughtful,
well-mannered men and women, you are fishing over their shoulders.

In fact, it seems to me that we should not catch many fish at all if it were not for our loving,
painstaking, unselfish parents.

And don't you think we ought to be obedient and thoughtful of them when they carry us along
so uncomplainingly and rejoice in seeing us take in such beautiful catches from life?

OPPORTUNITY

Have you ever heard of a picture that was called "Opportunity?" It represents a person with
a great deal of hair on her forehead, but none on the back of her head. The meaning of the
picture is this: When you catch an opportunity as it comes, it is easy to hold; but once you
let it get by you, it is very difficult to catch it again. It is something like trying to catch
a train that has just pulled out of the station.

I used to live near a boy in Canada who did not like to go to school, and when the snow was
deep and the weather was frosty he would find some excuse by which he got his mother to let
him stay at home. When he grew up he found out what he had missed by not getting an education,
and he tried to make it up, but he could not. He was running after the train. He soon got discouraged
and gave up, and tried to get his living in some other way than by hard work. The last I heard
of him he had just been arrested for stealing.

I have known other boys and girls who thought of joining the Church, but they just kept putting
it off and putting it off, thinking that any time would do well enough. And then, as they got
older, they felt that they weren't good enough, or that some of their friends might not approve,
and so they have grown up and have not yet joined, and each year it keeps growing harder.

The two opportunities that you boys and girls ought to take "by the forelock," as we say, are,
first: in getting all the schooling you can while you have the chance. You will never have
such a good opportunity again, and if you let it slip you may never, never catch up. And second:
in making as fine a start as you can in your Christian life by learning all you can about the
Bible and by getting Christ's example into your hearts.

GOD IS NOW HERE

In a sermon which Dean Stanley, an English minister, preached to children in Westminster Abbey,
he told the following story: "There was a little girl living with her grandfather. She was
a good child, but he was not a very good man; and one day, when she came back from school,
he had put in writing over her bed, 'God is nowhere,' for he did not believe in the good God,
and he tried to make the little girl believe the same as he.

"What did the little girl do? She had no eyes to see, no ears to hear what her grandfather
tried to teach her. She was very small. She could only read words of one syllable at a time;
she rose above the bad meaning which he had tried to put into her mind, because her little
mind could not do otherwise, and she read the words not 'God is nowhere,' but 'God is now here.'"

And she was right. She was wiser than her gray-haired grandfather. For God is now here. He
is everywhere. And whenever even the smallest child speaks to Him in the simplest prayer He
hears the child's voice. God is now here. That is a good motto for us to take with us to school,
to keep us honest; to play, to keep us sweet; to our homes, to keep us unselfish.

DAVID LIVINGSTONE'S FAITH

No doubt you have all heard of David Livingstone, the great missionary to Africa. I wish to
tell you a story of his faith in Christ.

He was trying to cross one of the rivers of Africa one day with his little company of men,
when the savages in that locality tried to prevent him. They gathered in large numbers with
their spears and poisoned arrows and war-clubs, and blocked his way to the river. Livingstone
and his little company were no match for these hostile warriors, and it looked as if he and
his men would be killed.

Then he thought of a scheme of waiting till nightfall and of crossing over under cover of the
darkness.

The great missionary said of this verse: "It is the word of a Gentleman of the most sacred
and strictest honour, and there is an end on't. I feel quite calm now, thank God."

Next morning he crossed the river without any difficulty, although the bank was lined with
savages armed to the teeth.

I think that is always the way when we trust in Christ. He has promised never to leave us nor
forsake us, and we can rely upon His word.

THE HAPPY MAN

Once upon a time there was a king who was very rich, but very unhappy. He had a beautiful marble
palace, with extensive parks and grounds, fine horses and carriages, but he was not happy.

So one day he called together his court-messengers, and sent them out into the world, telling
them to travel far and wide until they found a man who was happy beyond all others, and when
they found him, to take off his shirt and bring it to him. For he thought that perhaps by wearing
this shirt he might gain the happiness he sought.

The messengers went forth, and after a long search finally found a man who seemed happier than
all his fellows. And as he sat singing in the sunshine the king's messengers pounced upon him
to take away his shirt; but lo, when they took his coat off they found he had no shirt!

The story means this, that happiness does not depend upon what you have or have not. It comes
from within, and not from without. If you have the right spirit you will have a song, riches
or not. But if you have not the right spirit you will not be happy, no matter what you have.

A SERMON FOR THE BOYS

A teacher said the other day that ninety boys out of every hundred who fail in grammar schools
and high-schools smoke tobacco. He says also that boys who smoke are nearly all unruly and
disobedient in school. And he says again, that boys who get their lessons well and stand high
in grammar-schools take lower marks in high-school if they begin to smoke in high-school. This
ought to be enough to make any boy stop and think before he begins to smoke, for it shows that
it not only hurts a boy's mind, but his morals also.

I think the reason most boys take up smoking is not because they like it, but because their
schoolmates do it, and they want to be one of "the crowd." When you boil that down it means
either that a boy wants to be smart, or else he has not courage enough to stand alone; that
is, he is a coward.

You would not think much of a boy who was about to enter a race and, just before he entered
it, hurt his foot on purpose, so that he could not run his best, would you? Well, that is just
what every boy does who smokes: it hinders him in the race of life. You ought not to smoke
before you are twenty-one years old, because your body is not strong enough to stand it. The
safest way is not to smoke at all, but at least don't smoke until you get your growth.

TIRE-TROUBLE

People who own automobiles have a great deal to say about "tire-trouble." There are a great
many kinds of tire-trouble. In the first place, a tire often gets punctured by a nail running
into it. Then there are "blow-outs" caused by the inner tube giving way. Then there are leaky
valves, by which the air slowly leaks out. There are also sand-blisters, caused by little particles
of sand getting into the tire and making a swelling in it, which soon gives way. And finally
tires may get rim-cut, which means that the steel rim which fastens them on wears them through
by rubbing. The result of these things is what is known as a flat tire with all the air gone
out, and the automobile bumps on the hard rim.

Boys and girls have tire-troubles, too. I have seen boys and girls get so vexed about things
that they just exploded in a burst of temper like a blow-out in a tire. I have known them to
run up against something sharp and difficult which took all the buoyancy out of them, just
like a nail causing a puncture in a tire. I have known them to tell a lie, although nobody
else knew it, and it bothered them so inside that it was like sand on the inside of the tire
causing a sand-blister. I have known them to fret about things so that all their enthusiasm
leaked away just as the tire that had a leaky valve. And finally I have known them to be rim-cut
by associating with some sharp-tongued boy or girl. The result of all this was a flat tire,
and these boys and girls just went bumping along without any happiness or lightness of heart.
They couldn't get anywhere with their work or their play.

The only cure that I know of for a boy or girl with a flat tire is more of God's uplifting
strength.

God says that they who trust in Him shall run, and not be weary.

WATCHING FOR IDLE BOYS

Probably all boys and girls whisper in school if they think the teacher will not catch them.
Some teachers set boys and girls to watch one another and to tell on one another when they
see anyone whispering. I do not think that is a fair thing to do, for it makes tell-tales of
boys and girls. And tell-tales are never attractive.

The story I am going to relate to you is about a teacher who set the pupils in a room to watch
each other, and to tell if they caught anyone idle. One boy had a grudge against another, and
he thought that now would be the time to get even with him. So he watched carefully, and as
soon as he found the other boy idling he called the teacher's attention to it. Of course every
boy and girl waited anxiously to see what the teacher would do. And then something unexpected
happened. The teacher said to the tell-tale: "So you saw this boy idling, did you?"

"Yes, sir," quickly answered the boy.

"Then," said the teacher, "what were you doing when you found him idling?" The boy blushed,
and hung his head. He not only had been caught idling himself, but playing a mean trick. That
was a lesson for him: he never watched for idle boys again. And it ought to be a lesson for
us, too, when instead of attending to our own work, we neglect it, and try to get other people
into trouble.

CHRIST AND THE DOG

My children's sermon to-day has to do with a legend. A legend is a story that has come down
to us from the olden times, but which cannot be proved to be true. This legend is about Christ.

It tells of how one day He was walking down a street in Jerusalem and saw a company of people
gathered about a dead dog in the street. Now, city dogs in the land where Christ lived are
not petted as they are in our own country. They act as scavengers, and live on whatever they
can pick up. They are shaggy and dirty and yellow. The people stone them and kick them, and
do not call them by kind names.

So the people who had gathered about this dog were making unkind remarks about it, saying how
ugly it was, when Christ came up, and looking at the dog, He said, "But do you see what beautiful,
even, white teeth he has?" Then, it is said, the people knew this must be Christ, who could
find something to praise even in a dog like that.

But that was the way Christ always dealt with people. He always saw something good in them.
And when people knew that Christ saw something good in them, they tried to live up to what
He saw, and to be good.

You remember how Zaccheus, the little, short man who had been robbing the people by collecting
too much tax-money, climbed up into a sycamore tree to see Christ pass by. Christ told him
that He was going to take dinner with him. And when Christ dined with him, Zaccheus felt that
Christ thought he was better than he was, and he became so ashamed of what he had been doing
that he went and gave the money back.

And Christ's rule is a good rule for us to follow. If we wish people to be good, we must look
for the good things in them. If we expect them to be good, they will try to be good. There
is a jailer in Chicago who, when a man has served his term in jail, gives him a letter of recommendation
so that he can get a job. And the men who get these letters are ashamed to do wrong and to
get into jail again, because of the disappointment they will cause the jailer who believes in them.

A girl once said to her mother, who was always finding something good instead of bad to say
of people, "Mother, I believe you would have something good to say of the devil."

"Well," said her mother, "we might all admire his perseverance."

Try to see how many good things you can see in people. It's the best game of all to play.

THE BOY WHO WAS TO BE MANAGER

A boy recently answered an advertisement of a certain firm in New York which wanted an office-boy.
He went to the office, and as he was a bright, neat-looking boy, he made a good impression
upon the manager. The manager liked him and told him to report for work the following morning.

The boy was about to leave the office in great glee, when the manager called him back and asked
him to write his name, in order that he might see whether or no he was a good writer. The boy
wrote his name in such a miserable scrawl that the manager could hardly read it, and he told
the boy that he was very sorry, but he would be obliged to cancel his agreement, and could
not take him on.

He then advised the boy to take lessons in penmanship, in order to improve his writing.

"But," the boy said, "why do I need to be a good penman? I'm going to be a manager some day,
and I'll have a stenographer to do my writing for me."

"Yes," said the man, "that may be true. But before you get to be a manager anywhere you will
have to work up to it through a great many years of lower positions, and you must learn to
write." The boy could not see why, and went to find work elsewhere, before improving his writing.

There are a great many people just like that boy. They expect to be managers, superintendents,
presidents, but they don't see that they must work up to it, and every step must be faithfully
and patiently taken.

Some boys expect to be good at long division, and they do not take any pains to learn subtraction
thoroughly. Or they expect to be good in English, and will not study grammar. They are like
the boy in this story.

Some girls expect to appear like ladies, but they pay no attention to what their mothers say
about neatness,--such as keeping their hair in order and their shoes clean. These girls are
also like the boy of the story.

Most things worth while in life have to be worked for, and as you cannot well get upstairs
at one jump, but must take the steps between one by one, so the good things of life come by
patiently filling in each task with care and faithfulness. Then the big things will take care
of themselves.

A TALE ABOUT WORDS

Boys and girls like fairy-tales. So my sermon to-day is to be in that form. This fairy-tale
comes from France, and it is told by Katherine Pyle in her book, "Fairy-Tales from Many Lands."

A widow had two daughters. One was coarse and slovenly, with an ugly disposition, but because
she resembled her mother the woman loved her and thought her beautiful. The other daughter
had hair like gold and a complexion like a pink rose, while her eyes were as blue as the sky.
She was sweet-tempered and kind, but her mother hated her, and gave her all the hardest work
to do and the poorest food to eat.

One day she gave her a heavy jug and sent her into the forest to bring water for her sister.
When the girl reached the spring she was tired and sad, and sat weeping on the stone. Presently
a voice behind her asked for a drink, and she turned and saw a withered old woman sitting there.
So she gently raised the jug to the woman's lips, and then refilled it and started home.

But the old woman called her back and said: "Daughter, you have helped one who is able to repay
you for your kindness. Every word you speak shall be a pearl or a rose." The girl hastened
home. Her mother met her with scolding words, asking her why she had been so long. And when
her daughter explained to her, lo! every word she spoke was a pearl or a rose. The greedy old
woman snatched up the pearls and left the roses.

Then she called her other daughter,--the ugly one,--told her what had happened, and said: "Hasten,
daughter! Take the silver pitcher and run to the fountain. If the fairy has given these for
a drink from a jug, what will she give for a drink from a silver pitcher!"

The girl sulked off to the fountain swinging the pitcher and loitering along the way. When
she reached there no old woman was in sight, but beside the spring was a tall, beautiful young
woman who asked her for a drink. The ugly one replied, "There is the pitcher, draw the water
for yourself."

When she was about to go, the young woman said sharply: "Stop! the words that fall from your
lips are evil things, and they shall look like the things they are. Every word you speak shall
be a spider or a snake, until you learn to speak kindly."

The girl trudged off home scarcely thinking about what the woman said, little knowing that
it was the same fairy who had spoken to her sister. But when she began to answer her mother,
spiders and snakes dropped from her lips, and she was very much frightened.

I wonder whether our words would be pearls or spiders if we could see them? Let us make them
pearls.

SUFFOCATED TREES

We sometimes hear of people being suffocated by gas, but it is not often we hear of trees being
suffocated.

But the other day I was walking down the street, and noticed that all the trees on one side
of the avenue for several blocks were dead. They looked as if they had been fine, strong, healthy
trees, and I could not understand why they had all died, until I was told that a gas-pipe beneath
their roots had leaked, and that the escaping gas had killed the trees.

I am sure you and I know people who are like those dead trees: they have become discouraged
and wilted, and if you and I could dig down into their lives we should probably find something
like that poisonous gas which has ruined them.

Sin is the most poisonous thing that gets into one's life.

If a boy or girl has done wrong and is hiding it from his father and his mother, and his conscience
is pricking him all the time, then he cannot be sunny and healthy like a growing tree. He becomes
cross and easily provoked, and is sulky and wilted.

If you have done something wrong, which you ought to tell your parents about, do not go to
sleep until you have told them. If you do, you will wake in the morning with dread, and you
will go around all day with a dull ache which will spoil all the sunshine. Moreover, if you
begin keeping secrets from your parents in this way you will have no one to check you in your
misdeeds. Your parents may punish you, but they are the best friends you have. And besides,
there is no punishment like hiding a feeling of guilt. The next best thing after keeping from
doing wrong is to own up to it in an honest way when you have done wrong. Many a boy and girl
would have been saved untold trouble if they had only been frank with their parents. One of
the saddest days in any boy's or girl's life is when they first keep a guilty secret from their
parents.

ULYSSES AND THE SIRENS

When you boys and girls get older and further along in school, you will probably learn of a
famous Greek whose name was Ulysses. He was noted as a heroic seaman, who travelled over dangerous
seas and into unknown lands.

In one of the seas where Ulysses sailed was an island known as the Isle of the Sirens. The
sirens would attract sailors to their shores by beautiful music. But when the sailors drew
near the land they would irresistibly cast themselves into the sea, to their destruction.

Now Ulysses had heard of the sirens through Circe, and he wanted to hear the maidens sing,
but he did not want to come within their power. So this is the way he managed it. One day he
put wax in the ears of all his sailors, so that they could not hear the music, and then had
himself strapped to the mast. Then he ordered the sailors to row near enough to the island
for him to hear the music. In this way he heard the singing, but did not get caught.

That was a clever way of getting tempted, and yet not getting caught, was it not? But someone
has said in a joke it would have been better if Ulysses had had an orchestra on board which
would have made better music than the sirens. Then neither Ulysses nor the sailors would have
been tempted to go too near the dangerous isle.

That is a pretty good way of dealing with all kinds of temptation,--not by trying to keep temptation
out, but by putting something more attractive in its place. If you are tempted to go to the
moving pictures, when you were told not to, do not simply stand around outside the place with
nothing else to do. Go off and play something which will be more attractive than moving pictures.
If you are told that you must not go fishing, don't sulk around wishing that you could go.
Just go at baseball or something else, and soon you will have forgotten about the other thing.

Always put something else in the place of the thing you are not to do, and it will help you
to overcome temptation.

POISON-LABELS

You have all seen bottles of poison, and you know when your father or mother buys poison from
the druggist there is a label on the bottle marked "POISON" in large letters, and on the label
is a picture of a skull and crossbones. This is done to warn people from drinking the poison.

Now, if a druggist were to put clear, pure water into a bottle, and put a label marked "Poison"
on it, no one would drink the water if he were choking, for fear of being poisoned.

And there are boys and girls just like that good, pure, fresh water with the poison-label on
it. They are good at heart. They are kind and unselfish and obedient, but nobody will have
anything to do with them because they put such terrible poison-labels upon themselves.

I will tell you what some of these poison-labels are which frighten people away from boys and
girls. One of them is slang. Now, of course, some girls and boys who are inwardly little ladies
and gentlemen use slang, but usually slang is used by low-bred people who have not words enough
to say what they want to. And consequently when you use slang, if people do not know that you
are well-bred boys and girls, they think that you are coarse and vulgar, and they will have
nothing to do with you.

Another poison-label that boys sometimes stick on is swearing. And of course that is always
bad-mannered. Another is smoking. Another is bad company. I knew a boy who was really good
at heart, but who persisted in going with bad boys, and no business man in town would take
him into his business because of that terrible label.

Girls sometimes wear such poison-labels as forwardness; that is, they are always making themselves
heard and seen. Others are proud. Others chew gum.

I have not time to mention all of these different labels. You can think of them for yourselves.
What I want to say is that it is too bad for such good, useful, well-intentioned and wholesome
boys and girls to put on labels which lead people to think less of them than they should think.
For by these things they spoil their chances of getting into the company of well-bred people.

LIES THAT WALK

We usually think of a lie as a thing that is spoken. But there are other kinds of lies. Some
girls that I once knew went to an office in New York and bought some labels with the pictures
and names of hotels in Europe printed on them. They pasted these on their suit-cases.

Now, as you probably know, when people go to Europe some of the hotels paste labels on your
suit-cases and trunks when they take your baggage to the station. Some people come home with
their baggage quite covered over with these slips of paper, and one can easily see by these
labels what a long distance the owners of the luggage have traveled.

These girls who bought those labels in New York, but had never been to Europe, were trying
to make people believe that they, too, had traveled in foreign countries.

Of course you know what that sort of deception means: it is telling a lie without speaking it.

So you see these lies went with the suit-cases. And wherever those girls carried their bags,
the lies walked along with them, and said to everyone who looked at them, "Our owners have
been to Europe."

Of course, no self-respecting boy or girl would do such a thing. But you must also be careful
not to act falsehoods by pretending things in school, or acting at home as if you don't know
about things when you do. Don't try to fool yourselves, then you will not try to fool other people.

WELLINGTON AND THE SOLDIER

No boy likes to be called a coward, and some boys do things that are dangerous for fear that
their friends will think they have no courage. Sometimes it is more cowardly to do a dangerous
thing like that than not to do it.

Do not think that you are a coward because you are afraid of dangerous things. Some of the
bravest men the world ever saw have been afraid, but in spite of their fear they went firmly on.

A story is told of Lord Wellington, a great English general, who saw a young man in his army
who was white with fear just before a battle, and yet did not run away. Lord Wellington said:
"There is a brave man. He knows the danger, and yet he faces it." Another story is told of
a soldier who was making fun of a second who was badly frightened just before battle. The frightened
soldier said to the other one: "Yes, I am afraid. And if you were half as much afraid as I
am, you would run away."

The lesson I want to draw is this, that it is not cowardly to be afraid of things which have
danger in them. It is cowardly to run away if you ought to face them. And if you ought not
to face them it is cowardly to go headlong into them, just because of some other boy's foolish
dare.

I remember a playmate who used to bite the heads off the fish he caught, just because another
boy dared him to. It used to make him terribly sick, but he was too much of a coward not to
do it. Some boys take up smoking and drinking and swearing for the same reason. Any boy who
does that sort of thing is a coward.

ABRAHAM'S GUEST

You have all heard of Abraham, who went out from his home in Ur of the Chaldees to find God.
And you remember how he dwelt in tents, and had hundreds of cattle. And you know how good he
was to his nephew, Lot.

There is a story told about Abraham which you will not find in the Bible. Abraham received
into his tent one day an aged traveler. After he had invited the traveler to dine with him
at his sunset meal, Abraham went out to offer up his evening sacrifice to God. But the traveler
would not join him in prayer and thanksgiving. Abraham was angry because of the old man's lack
of religion, and drove him from his tent.

Later in the evening the angel of the Lord appeared to Abraham and asked him why he had driven
out the old man. Abraham replied:

"Lord, he refused to acknowledge Thee!"

The Lord replied: "What! I have borne with this old man for eighty years, and you could not
bear with him for two days!" After that, so the story goes, Abraham helped everyone who came
along, no matter what his religious belief might be.

That is a good story for boys and girls to remember when they feel that they cannot forgive
someone who has done them a wrong. What would become of you if God never forgave you when you
did wrong? It is this spirit of forgiveness that Christ means to teach us when He says in the
Lord's Prayer, "Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors." If, then, you say that prayer
and refuse to forgive anyone who has done you a wrong, you mean that you want to have God act
just as unforgiving with you as you are with your enemies. That would be terrible,--to ask
God not to forgive you. None of us would dare pray like that.

You remember Peter came to Christ once and asked how often we were to forgive people. Peter
thought seven times was enough. But Christ said, "No, you must forgive until seventy times
seven." That would be four hundred and ninety times. Christ did not mean exactly that many
times. But He meant more times than you can think. That is, if you are a follower of Christ
you are to forgive a person as often as he is sorry for having done you a wrong, and comes
to you and asks your forgiveness.

ABOUT GENEROSITY

When we speak of a person as being generous we usually think of someone who gives his money,
or whatever belongs to him, freely to others. But did you ever think that people can be generous
with their thoughts, too?

Let me show you what I mean by that. There were once two boys who went to visit at a farm where
they kept Shetland ponies, and of course both boys wanted to ride them. So one day they persuaded
the man in charge of the ponies to put the saddle on a handsome black one and lead him out
into the yard for them to mount. But when it came to actually getting on the pony's back, the
younger boy was afraid. Although the older boy urged him, he would not take a ride. Finally
the other boy mounted and rode gaily off, and came back beaming with delight. But instead of
being proud, and thinking the other boy cowardly, he went over to the younger lad and said:
"Now you get on. I know you can ride him." And when at last the other did ride off, the older
boy's eyes danced with delight, and he clapped his hands to encourage the younger boy. That
is one of the best forms of generosity.

Another illustration of it is when you are on a baseball or football team, or in a contest
of any sort, to be able to say when you are honestly beaten that you were beaten by a better
team. When you can say that, it takes half the sting out of defeat and makes those who win
admire you more than ever.

Don't be stingy with your thoughts about people. Always think the best about others, and believe
the best, and you will grow to be open-hearted, friendly, lovable and big.

SUN AND WIND

Once upon a time, according to an old fable, the sun and the northwind had a contest to see
which could take a man's coat off the more quickly.

The northwind tried first. It gathered together all its forces in its own corner of the earth,
and then rushed forth upon this man who was walking along a country-road. The wind blew and
blew, and it seemed as if the traveller's coat would be blown from his back or torn to tatters.
But the harder the northwind blew the tighter the man drew his coat about him, and the wind
could not get it off his back. After it had spent all its force it gave up in despair.

Then the sun had its turn. It came out without noise or violence like the northwind. It did
not whistle in the treetops nor bluster through the bushes. It did not buffet nor struggle
with the man. It just went on pouring forth its heat. And it seemed as if it could never win,
any more than the northwind. But soon the traveller took out his handkerchief and wiped the
perspiration from his face. Then, before long, he took off his hat. Soon he unbuttoned his
coat, and finally he took it off of his own accord. The sun had won the contest against the
northwind!

Now, a fable is meant to teach a lesson. The lesson of this fable is that gentleness wins where
only strength and rudeness fail. If some one has done you a wrong, the way to deal with him
is not to try to "get even" with him, as we say. Nor is the best way to get angry with him
and scold him. The Bible tells us that the way to overcome your enemy is to do good for evil,
for it says by so doing you will "heap coals of fire upon his head."

Usually it is the weak people who bluster like the northwind, and storm and brag. Strong people
are usually quiet. There is an old saying that "if you are right you can afford to keep your
temper, and if you are wrong you cannot afford to lose it." Be gentle. You will win more that
way than by getting angry.

THE BOY AND THE TURTLE

Theodore Parker was one of the greatest preachers America ever had, and this story is told
of him as a boy. One day, as he was going across the fields, he came to a pond where he saw
a small turtle sunning itself upon a stone which rose out of the water. The boy picked up a
stick, and was about to strike the turtle, when a voice within him said, "Stop!" His arm paused
in midair and, startled, he ran home to ask his mother what the voice meant. Tears came into
his mother's eyes as she took the boy in her arms and told him that it was his conscience which
had cried "Stop!" Then she told him that his conscience was the voice of God, and that his
moral safety depended upon his heeding that inner voice.

The same thing is true of all boys and girls. If you obey that inner voice in questions of
right and wrong, it will speak to you clearly.

But if you neglect it, it will grow silent, and you will be left in darkness and in doubt as
to what is right and wrong.

Some people call this voice the "inner light," and that is a very good name for it. Every time
you walk by the light you put fresh oil in the lamp, and the light grows stronger and the way
clearer.

Whenever that inner voice speaks to you and tells you that a thing is wrong, don't argue with
the voice and give reasons for doing the thing that is wrong. Obey the voice at once, as Parker
did, and it will save you endless trouble.

THE BOY AND THE NICKEL

A man once found a boy crying on the street, and asked the little chap what he was crying about.
The child told him he had just lost a nickel. The stranger gave him another, and then the boy
began to cry again. This greatly astonished the man, and he asked him why he was crying again.
The little chap said, "Because, if I hadn't lost that other nickel, I'd have two now."

That was, of course, a very foolish way to look at it, but that is the way a great many people
look at things. This is what is called covetousness. Covetous people always want something
they have not, and so they are usually unhappy.

The way to be happy is to think of the things you have, and not of the things you have not.
A man was once told that Cæsar was going to cause him great unhappiness, and he replied that
if Cæsar could blot out the sun with a blanket he might make him unhappy. But if he had the
sun to shine upon him, he would still be happy. We all have the sun to shine upon us, and other
things a-plenty to be happy over, if we will just count them up. Let us not be like the little
boy crying about the nickel he did not have.

THE THREE FATES

Boys and girls in ancient Greece believed that there were three fates, in the form of three
women seated above the clouds, who spun the thread of everyone's life, and cut it off with
shears when death came.

We no longer believe in such things, but we still speak of fate. Boys and girls sometimes say
that they are fated to fail in examinations, and so think they cannot help failing. But that
is no more true than the belief about the three women which the Grecian boys and girls held.
As a matter of fact, nothing outside of us makes evil things happen to us. We make our own
fates. Or shall I say, we are our own fates? Someone has said, "Our fates lie asleep along
the roadside until we waken them." That is very true, as I think I can show you by a story.

Not long ago I was riding on a train up through Vermont. A boy came into the car selling papers,
books, candy, fruit, and other things. There was a boy opposite me in the smoking-car who wanted
to appear very smart and manly. He was smoking a cigar and looking very much traveled. The
trainboy offered him a book which had a bad title and worse pictures in it. But in front of
this young chap sat two bright-faced, innocent-looking boys who did not pretend to be anything
but what they were. The trainboy offered them salted peanuts. In front of those boys sat a
fine, clean-looking, well-bred man. The trainboy offered him a good, wholesome book.

Now, three fates were in that car in the form of that trainboy, and each person invited his
own kind of fate by what he was in himself. That is true all through life. Be true, and you
attract truth. Be evil, and you attract evil. Your fate is what you are.

THE INCH-WORM AND THE MOUNTAIN

Out in the state of California there is a great valley known as the Yosemite Valley, and here
once lived a tribe of Indians who tried to explain how the wonderful streams and trees and
rocks came to be.

The story of one of the highest peaks, El Capitan, is very interesting. One day some Indian
boys went fishing in a beautiful lake in the Yosemite, and after they had grown tired they
lay down in the sun upon a rock beside the lake. They soon fell fast asleep. How long they
slept they did not know, but when they awoke they found that during their sleep the rock on
which they lay had been stood on end, so that they were now nearly a mile high in the air and
had no means of getting down. They were in a bad plight.

But the animals in the valley which were friendly to mountaineers saw their misfortune and
held a conference as to how to help the boys get down. They decided that the only thing to
do was to try to climb up the face of the cliff. But the rock, was too steep, and so they tried
to jump up. First the raccoon tried it, then the bear, then the squirrel, then the fox, and
finally the mountain-goat. It was all to no avail, however, and they gave up in discouragement,
and were about to leave the boys to perish, when the inch-worm came along and offered her services.
The animals laughed her to scorn. What could she do, with her snail-pace, when they all, who
were so fleet of foot, had to give it up!

But she would not be laughed out of her purpose, and she began to climb up the cliff. Slowly,
inch by inch, she crawled up, so slowly that it seemed as if she would take a thousand years
to get there. But as she passed crag after crag the animals below ceased making fun of her
and began to shout encouragement. At last she reached the top. And then the Great Spirit turned
her into a huge butterfly so strong that she flew down, with the boys on her back, to safety.

There is a verse in the Old Testament which says that the race is not always to the swift,
which means that it is not always the strongest who win. It is the one who keeps at it. Many
a bright boy fails in school because the lessons come so easily he does not work. Many a dull
boy wins because he sticks to it and plods away.

If you are tempted to trust too much to your brightness, remember the animals who made fun
of the inch-worm. If you are dull, remember the inch-worm, take courage, and plod away. You
will get there sometime.

THE FRENCH DRUMMER-BOY

I want to tell you to-day of one of the bravest deeds ever done by a boy.

It happened this way. Back in the year 1793, when the French people were having trouble with
their king and queen, and finally put them to death, the rulers called in soldiers from other
nations to help them against their own people. The foreign soldiers met the French troops before
a town called Maubeuge, and there a fierce battle was fought.

The fiercest part of the fighting was carried on against Hungarian Grenadiers, who held the
market-place of the town. During this charge a drummer-boy in the French army saw that his
countrymen were having a hard time of it, so he slipped around back of these Hungarian soldiers
to the other side of the market-place, right in the thick of the enemy, and there drummed the
charge, in order to make his comrades think that some of the French soldiers had already pushed
through the enemy's ranks, and so encourage the others to push on.

Many years after, in digging up the ground about the market-place, the little bones of that
drummer-boy were found buried alongside the bones of the tall Hungarian men amongst whom he
had fallen. The French people have put up a statue to his memory in the town of Avesnes, and
he is shown still beating the charge on his drum, and looking out toward the frontier whence
the enemy of his people came.

A KING IN THE STUFF

In the early days of the history of the children of Israel the people were ruled by judges,
and it was not until they saw the nations round about them under the leadership of kings that
they desired a king of their own. In spite of the warnings of the old prophet Samuel, they
demanded a king, and Samuel chose a young man, afterwards King Saul, to be their ruler.

But when the people came together to make Saul King they could not find him. They searched
a long while, and finally God told them that Saul had hidden himself amongst the baggage. There
they looked, and sure enough, as the old story says, there was a king "hid in the stuff."

That was many hundreds of years ago, and kings are no longer made in that way. But the story
has a meaning still for every boy. There is still a king hid in the stuff that goes to make
up every boy. A great many things about a boy in which he hides his kingship seem no better
than the worthless stuff in which Saul hid. There are mistakes, outbursts of temper, laziness,
selfishness, impatience, deceit, and cruelty. But hidden beneath all that, God would have you
remember that there is still a king hid in the stuff.

A story is told of the son of Louis XVI of France, whose father and mother were put to death
by the people. He was thus left an orphan, and was sent to live with a wicked man and woman
who tried to teach him all manner of wrongdoing. But when they tried to persuade him to do
wrong, he would refuse, and say that he was a king's son, and would some day be king himself,
therefore he could not stoop so low.

I wish every boy, when he is tempted to do some unmanly thing, would remember his kingship,
too. You are not the son of an earthly king, but you are each the son of a Heavenly King, and
you, too, have the making of a king in you. You are too great to do mean things.

And when you would do a mean thing, ask yourself if that is worthy of your kingship. Remember
also that only those who live Kingly lives are worthy to enter the Kingdom of Heaven.

BREAD AND WINE

This is Communion Sunday, when the Church celebrates what is known as "the Sacrament of the
Lord's Supper." You remember that on the night before Christ was crucified He gathered His
twelve disciples together that He might have a quiet meal and talk with them. And it is that
Last Supper, as it is known, which we call to mind when we observe Communion Sunday.

The first Christians did not have communion on Sunday. They used to have a common meal together
on weekdays, and at a neighbour's house. At these meals they would recall the sayings of Jesus
and His loving deeds.

But Christ not only had the Last Supper with His disciples, and taught them to remember Him
in the breaking of the bread: He also gave them the lesson about the bread and the wine by
which to remember Him.

You know how bread is made. Grains of wheat are put in the ground by the farmer, and these
grains give up their lives in order that other grains may grow on the stalk at harvest-time.
Then these grains are gathered in, and finally ground into flour. Christ also gave up His life
just as those first grains of wheat in the ground. And He meant to tell us by the bread at
communion that if we are to help other people we must be willing to give up our own selfish
desires for their sake.

By the wine at communion Christ meant to teach us that just as the branch of a grapevine must
be attached to the stalk before there can be grapes, so you and I must keep close to Christ
in order to be able to live the life of unselfishness which shows that we are His followers.
He says: "I am the vine, ye are the branches. Without me ye can do nothing."

After Christ's death, whenever the disciples took their meal together, they would think of
Christ, and they would forgive one another and become more gentle and loving. Whenever we see
the communion-table prepared, we also must think of Christ, forgive those who have wronged
us, and try still harder to be unselfish and kind.

THE FIRST CHRISTMAS CAROL

In England on Christmas eve boys and girls and men and women go about the streets singing Christmas
carols, or songs, at the doors of people's houses, and the people for whom they sing give them
tokens of their good-will. The first verse of one of the oldest and best Christmas carols is
as follows:

"God rest you merry, gentlemen;
  Let nothing you dismay,
For Christ was born of Mary
  Upon a Christmas Day."

That is a very beautiful carol, but there is one still more beautiful. It is the one the angels
sang the night that Christ was born:

"Glory to God in the highest, Peace on earth to men of good-will."

This means that people who have good-will in their hearts toward other people will have peace
on earth. And how very true that is! People generally act toward us the same way in which we
act toward them. If we are cross, others are cross; but if we are warmhearted and loving, then
people are warmhearted toward us. It is just like seeing your face in a looking-glass. If you
frown, the face in the mirror will frown. If your face is smiling, the one in the mirror will
be smiling. That is another way of saying that you get what you give.

Christ came into the world to teach us how to have good-will to men, and from our good-will
to get happiness. Any boy or girl who faithfully tries to be like Christ, and to do as he believes
Jesus would do if He were in his place, will grow to have this good-will in his heart. Then
some day he will sing as the angels did, "Glory to God in the highest," for he will know God's
peace. Christ said, "Blessed are the peace-makers."

Here is a verse for you to take as a motto:

"Where are you going? Never mind. Just follow the road that says, 'Be kind,' And do the duty
that nearest you lies, For that is the road to Paradise."

A HINT FROM A CARIBOU

This is an animal-story. It is about a caribou. A caribou is a kind of reindeer, and lives
in Canada.

One day a man was out in a stumpy pasture-field beside a woods in Canada, and he saw a mother
caribou and her little calf feeding quietly down in a valley nearby.

He was on a little hill some distance away, but the wind was blowing in the direction of the
caribou. Presently the mother caribou raised her head, sniffed the air, and looked in the direction
where the man was hidden behind a stump. She had caught the scent of a human being. That meant
danger to her calf. Soon the mother caribou, leaving her calf in the valley, started in the
direction of the man. He slipped from his hiding-place to another stump. On came the caribou
till she reached the very stump behind which the man had first hidden. There she smelled the
ground, and then a strange thing happened. She called her calf to her, had it smell the ground,
too, so as to get the scent of the man. When that was done, she got behind that little caribou
and butted it down the valley as fast as it could go. Why did she do that? It was to teach
her calf that whenever it got that scent on the air, there was danger, and it must get away
as quickly as possible.

Ever after that, even before the calf knew that this scent belonged to a man, or had seen a
man, it would run away from it.

Your parents are constantly doing for you what that mother caribou did for her little one.
When they tell you that such and such a thing is wrong, and you must not do it; when again
they tell you there is danger in going to a certain place, or in chumming with a particular
boy or girl, they are again doing the same thing for you. And when they punish you, as that
mother caribou did her calf, it is because they know the danger far better than you, and they
know that your safety depends upon keeping away from such things.

Then, bye and bye, perhaps, as you grow older, you will begin to see for yourself what the
danger meant, just as the little caribou might some day see a hunter for itself. And then you
will no longer think your parents cruel or strict; you will be thankful that they were so wise
and kind.

THE REPENTANCE OF SAMUEL JOHNSON

When you begin to study English literature you will hear a great deal about Samuel Johnson,
who wrote one of the first English dictionaries, and was a great scholar. Johnson's father
was a bookseller, who used to have a little shop in the market-place, where he sold books on
market-days. One day, when Johnson was a boy, his father took sick and asked Samuel to go to
the market-place and sell books for him. Johnson was ashamed of such work, and refused to go.

But many years afterward, when he had become an old man and was back on a visit to his native
village, he was missed from breakfast one morning by the friends with whom he was staying.
On his return at supper-time he told his friends how he had spent the day. It was fifty years
ago that day when he had refused to help his father.

That is a story worth remembering when you are ashamed of doing something which your parents
have asked you to do, perhaps to carry a parcel on the street or to mow the lawn. You will
see sometime, I hope, that all honest work, if it is well done, is a thing to be proud of,
instead of to be ashamed of. But it may be too late then. Your parents may have died, and you,
like Johnson, will come back with deep sorrow to think how you had disobeyed and forsaken them
when they needed you. The way to save yourselves such heartache is to be obedient to your parents
as long as they live.

EASTER

Once upon a time a Persian king was marching westward with a great army to fight against Greece.
In the evening, after the army had encamped for the night, someone found the king looking over
the host of people spread out before him, and he was in tears. When he was asked the cause
of his sadness, he replied that he had been thinking that one hundred years from that time
not one of all these men in his army would be alive.

That was long before Christ lived, and had risen from the dead on Easter morning. These people
had no Easter. They did not believe in the sort of everlasting life in which we believe. And
even long after the resurrection of Christ there were many people in Greece and Rome who had
not heard the wonderful news. Here is a letter that someone wrote over a hundred years after
that first Easter to a mother whose son had just died:

     "I was much grieved, and shed as many tears over your son as I did
     over my own, and I did everything that was fitting, as so did my
     whole family.... But still there is nothing one can do in the face
     of such trouble. So I leave you to comfort yourselves. Good-bye."

If these people had known about our Easter they would not have felt so hopeless and sad. For
since Christ has risen from the dead, we know that all who love Him and try to be like Him
shall also rise from the dead, and be with Him in a life beyond the grave. When we know this,
then to die is not so terrible as it was to the Persians and Greeks. It is like going to sleep
in our home, and waking up in a place much more beautiful than we had ever dreamed of, and
being with Christ, the Friend of little children, forever. But we must know Christ in this
life if we are to enjoy His friendship in the next.

THE WHISPERING GALLERY

If you ever go to London, one of the many buildings which will be pointed out to you will be
Saint Paul's Cathedral, which is capped by a wonderful dome. And if you ask the guide, he will
show you in that dome a strange room known as the "Whispering Gallery." In this gallery your
lowest whisper can be heard on the other side of the room, a great distance away. It would
be hard to tell secrets in a room like that.

But there is a still more wonderful whispering gallery than that. It is the one which each
one of us carries about in his own soul. In that gallery even things we think, whether we say
them or not, are heard by God, our Creator. No thought escapes Him. "In Him we live, and move,
and have our being." If we "take the wings of the morning, and fly to the uttermost parts of
the earth," even there God is still.

This would be a very terrible thing to realize if all our thoughts were evil thoughts, unkind
and unlovely. For then we should be like the man who, when he was young, ill-treated his old
father and mother. When he grew up, this young man became very wealthy, and he used to carry
candy in his pocket as he walked in the parks to give to the children, because he wanted their
love. But the children would take his candy, then scamper away like frightened squirrels, because
something inside seemed to tell them that the man was not really kind at heart. Older people
felt the same way about him, and a chill came over them when they were with him. So they avoided
him. It would be unbearable to think that only our evil thoughts were open to God in that way.

But while God knows all the wickedness in our hearts, and we cannot hide anything from Him,
God also knows the good thoughts that are whispered in the gallery of our soul. And when we
wish ever so greatly that we could do something to help somebody, but cannot do it; or when
we would like to be good, but are tripped up by some temptation, God knows then how hard we
try, and gives us credit for our effort, even though we fail to do what we wanted to.

Let us remember the Whispering Gallery of the soul, then, and when we think evil thoughts,
even though we never tell them to our nearest friend, let us be sure God knows them. And when
we try hard to be good and to do good, but fail, let us also remember that God sees it, even
though none else knows. Our prayer each morning ought to be like the psalmist's: "Let the words
of my mouth, and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in Thy sight, O Lord, my strength
and my redeemer."

THE HE-SAID GIRL

Sometimes, when I am walking along the street, I catch snatches of conversation as I pass by
a group of little girls. And often I hear the phrase "He said" this, or "He said" that. There
are girls who do not seem to talk about much else but what this boy or that boy has said, and
these girls I call "he-said" girls.

Now, of course it is all right for girls to think about the boys. We could not stop that if
we would, and we would not stop it if we could. The danger comes when a girl thinks of little
else. The girl who begins by devoting all her thought to boys is apt to end by being a very
unattractive and unpopular sort of woman. Every girl ought to get along well with the girls
of her own age as well as with the boys. There is something wrong with the girl who cannot
get along with her girl friends. And so I say to you that if you do not want to be thoroughly
unhappy as a woman, try to win the friendship of girls as well as boys.

A good plan for the "he-said" girl is to take her father as her ideal, and hero and lover.
Then, as she grows to womanhood, she will not be satisfied with any man who is not in some
measure as good as her father. In the meanwhile beware of being a "he-said" girl.

ON DECK

When I was a boy I belonged to a baseball team in the village where I lived, and when we played
games with a team from another village we had a scorer who not only kept tally of the runs,
but also told us who was to be the next at the bat. He would say, "So-and-so is at the bat,
So-and-so is on deck." And when he told a boy he was "on deck," that boy knew he was to be
the next one at the bat.

Boys and girls are always on deck, whether they are playing ball or not, for a boy or girl
never knows when he is going to be called upon to play some part in the game called Life. And
the strange thing about it is, there is no scorer who tells you that you are on deck. So you
never get any warning, and you may be on deck and not know it, and so miss your chance.

Samuel, for instance, was a boy who used to close the curtains and put out the candles at night
in the temple away back hundreds of years before Christ was born. One evening he had put out
the lights and closed the curtains, just the same as he had a hundred times before, and then
lay down to sleep. He little thought that this particular day he was on deck, and was to be
called into the game by God. But that night God called him, and sent him on a very important
errand that was to change his whole life and the history of his people.

And things like that are happening in America to-day. I read a story the other day of a young
student who was overtaken by a rainstorm, and borrowed an umbrella of a lawyer. He returned
it a few days later with a note of thanks. Not long afterward he received a letter from the
lawyer offering him a position in his office on account of his good handwriting. The student
took the position, kept on with his studies in college, and after he graduated from college
went right along in that office till he became a man of influence. He didn't know what it meant
when he wrote that note. He was on deck.

The lesson that I want to draw is this: That you must be on the lookout and do well the things
that come to you each day, for who knows but you may be on deck that very day, and be called
to play some important part? For only those are called who are on deck; that is, ready to play.
The boy or girl who does not do his work well day by day may miss his chance of being called
to take some larger place in life when the times comes. Take this motto from the Old Testament:
"Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might."

THE TERROR BY NIGHT

In some parts of Canada, where the country is still thinly settled by people, wild animals
are quite numerous. In one of these communities there once lived a boy who was in the village
late one night. He had been at the village-store, and had heard the men talking about a wildcat
that had been seen in that neighbourhood a short time before.

The boy was not a coward, but when he started for his home, three miles away, in the country,
he was nervous. Nothing happened, however, until he was climbing over a set of bars at the
end of a lane leading through a piece of woods near his home. Then he heard the bushes moving
and twigs crackling under the feet of some animal the other side of the lane-fence. He thought
of the wildcat. He jumped to the ground, picked up a heavy stick he had seen under a tree on
his way through that day and listened. Nearer and nearer came the rustling of the bushes, and
every little while he could hear an animal sniff the air. Finally it came to the fence, clambered
up opposite him. The boy raised his club and waited, and when the animal jumped down beside
him, its eyes shining in the darkness, he struck with all his might. Off the beast went into
the darkness. All was silence again, and the boy stood listening and trembling. Then from the
top of a nearby hill he heard a dog howl with pain. He found, next morning, that it was only
a neighbour's dog that had frightened him so.

That boy is not the only one who has seen things mistakenly, just because he was afraid. If
you are dreading something, you will think that everything that happens brings the thing you
dread. Usually nothing happens at all. The trouble was only in the person's mind, just as that
wildcat was in the boy's mind, and so every noise he could not explain was a wildcat.

I am sure David must have known something about that fear when, as a boy, he watched his sheep
out on the lonely hills at night. But David learned that there was One who was able to protect
him by night as well as by day. It was God. And so he wrote of God: "He that keepeth thee will
not slumber. God is thy keeper. God is thy shade upon thy right hand.

Let us remember that no real harm can come to us unless it comes from within ourselves. God
is our protector. In His love we can trust by day, and in His care we can lay us down to sleep
at night without a fear.

THE BRAMBLE-BUSH KING

There is a story in the Old Testament which says that once upon a time the trees gathered together
to choose a king to rule over them.

First they invited the olive-tree; but the olive-tree said it was too busy bearing fruit. Then
they asked the fig-tree to be king; but the fig-tree had its work to do, and also declined.
Next they waited upon the vine with an invitation; but, like the others, it did not wish to
be their king.

Finally the trees asked the bramble to accept the position, and the bramble gladly agreed.
The first order it gave was for all the trees to take shelter under its branches or be burned
with fire. That sounds just like a prickly, thorny, little bramble, does it not?

That is usually the way of people who like to lord it over other people when they have no ability
for it. There are some who want to do so when they are at a party. They want to be the hitching-post
to which all the people are tied when they talk. If the bramble takes the form of a boy, he
wants to be captain of his team, or he will not play. If it happens to be a girl, she insists
upon everybody playing the game she wants, or she will go home in a sulk. These people cannot
agree long with anybody. They are quarrelsome and peevish.

Some boys and girls are like horses: they make good single-drivers, but they will not work
with anyone else. Some horses go well enough alone, but when you hitch them with another horse
they crowd, or bite, or kick it. They cannot "go double," as we say. That is the bramble-nature
showing out in a horse.

This is a bad trait, whether you find it in a horse, a man or woman, a boy or girl. Christ
says: "You know the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them. Not so shall it be among you;
but whosoever would become great among you shall be your minister; and whosoever would be first
among you shall be your servant." Jesus also said, "I am meek and lowly in heart." So must
all His followers be.

If you are getting any of the bramble-nature, and want to lord it over everybody, you had better
give it up. Some of the unhappiest people in the world are bramble-bush kings.

WHERE IS HEAVEN?

Our great-grandfathers and great-grandmothers used to talk much about where heaven was. And
some thought it was up above the clouds, and others thought it would be here on earth, after
all the wickedness and selfishness were done away. Every one, however, used to think that the
New Jerusalem, with its pearly gates and golden streets, was a real place like the cities of
to-day. 

With Superior's mercy, I dragged you back from the edge of things; and you've come to stay.
That's enough for me.

"Ten minutes subsequently she was sleeping, lightly and naturally, her
head nestling in the principal of his elbow, one hand was clinging
to a morsel of his shirt; piece he leaned above her raised, half-posing,
half-lying on the edge done of the bed, not daring to displacement his strained
place by so much as a enation'mho-comprehensiveness; till overwhelming
weariness had its way with him, and he slept also, his caput being
fallen back against the wall.

When at last he awoke, a shaft of light was feeling its way across the room from the long glass
door that gave upon the verandah. Outside in the garden the crows and rodent were asleep,
and talkative. Whenever Christ comes into the heart there comes with Him
love and thoughtfulness of others. And when we do kind things for others, we find happiness
for ourselves, and that is heaven. Christ says, "If any man hear my voice and open the door,
I will come in to him and sup with him and he with me." That means, when we do things that
we believe Christ would like to have us do, then He comes in to sup with us. And when we feel
Christ as our Companion, then it is heaven.

We may go to a beautiful place called heaven when we die, but it will be Christ who will make
the place full of joy and gladness. And if we are to see Him in that land and enjoy that heaven,
we must first make a heaven here on earth for ourselves and others by trying to please Him
and to be like Him every day.

THE CHRISTIAN ARMY

Saint Paul, in writing to the Christians of his day, urges them to be "good soldiers of the
Lord Jesus Christ." If every Christian is a soldier, then the Church ought to be called "the
Christian Army." And this makes plainer to us what it means to join the Church.

Armies, as you know, are divided into regiments, and regiments into companies. Every soldier
in the army belongs to a certain company. If a man said that he wanted to belong to the United
States Army, but that he did not want to join any particular regiment or company, but that
he intended to be a soldier "in general," people would laugh at him. He would be like a man
who took his gun and went out all alone to fight against Spain when we were at war with her.
Or it would be as if a man in a city should say that he wanted to fight fire, but instead of
joining a fire company, he would snatch up his pail and run alone to put out the fire every
time there was an alarm.

Now, in the Christian army there are also regiments and companies. The different denominations,
like the Presbyterians, the Methodists, the Baptists, the Congregationalists, and so on, are
the regiments. The Churches like this and other Churches are the companies in the army.

So, when anyone says he wants to make war on wickedness and to bring in the reign of love and
peace and good-will which Christ started His Church to fight for, we ask him to join one of
the companies of the Christian army. "Mrs Rivers? Would you sooner go to her than stay on here?"

Honor smiled.

"do they really ideate you shall plenty stay on here?"

"why
not? He would salvage the trouble of moving; and you wouldn't feel little
with the chap company." Furthermore, Christ said, "He that confesseth
me before men, him will I confess before my Father which is in heaven, and he that denieth
me before men, him will I deny before my Father which is in heaven." In joining the Church
you confess Christ.

You may ask me too, how old one should be before he can join the Christian army, known as the
Church of God. I answer, there is no set age. Some boys and girls are ready to join before
others. One little girl who was going to join the Church was told by some of the members of
her Sunday-school class that she wasn't old enough. She replied, "Anyone who is old enough
to know right from wrong is old enough to join the Church." If you are trying honestly day
by day to be like Christ and to do His will, and you wish to be a better soldier of the cross,
then you are ready to join the Church.

In the Christian army there are old and young, rich and poor, wise and simple, all under the
one flag,--the banner of the Cross; all under the one Captain,--even Jesus Christ. And the
best thing about our Captain is, He has never lost a battle yet, and never will. All those
who enlist under His flag are sure to win, and to hear God's "Well done."

