Then the meeting in the drive! How plainly he saw them both--Raeburn grave and pale, Marcella
in her dark serge skirt and cap, with an eye all passion and a cheek white as her hand.

"A tragic splendour enwrapped her!--a fierce heroic air. She was the embodiment of the moment--of
the melancholy morning with its rain and leafless woods--of the human anguish throbbing in
the little village. And I, who had seen her last in her festal dress, who had held her warm
perfumed youth in my arms, who had watched in her white breast the heaving of the heart that
I--I had troubled!--how did I find it possible to stand and face her? But I did. It rushed
through me at once how I would make her forgive me--how I would regain possession of her. I
had thought the play was closed: it was suddenly plain to me that the second act was but just
beginning. She and Raeburn had already come to words--I knew it directly I saw them. This business
will divide them more and more. His conscience will come in--and a Raeburn's conscience is
the devil!

"By now he hates me; every word I speak to him--still more every word to her--galls him. But
he controlled himself when I made him tell me the story--I had no reason to complain--though
every now and then I could see him wince under the knowledge I must needs show of the persons
and places concerned--a knowledge I could only have got from her. And she stood by meanwhile
like a statue. Not a word, not a look, so far, though she had been forced to touch my hand.
But my instinct saved me. I roused her--I played upon her! I took the line that I was morally
certain she had been taking in their tête-à-tête. Why not a scuffle?--a general scrimmage?--in
which it was matter of accident who fell? The man surely was inoffensive and gentle, incapable
of deliberate murder. And as to the evidence of hatred, it told both ways. He stiffened and
was silent. What a fine brow he has--a look sometimes, when he is moved, of antique power and
probity! But she--she trembled--animation came back. She would almost have spoken to me--but
I did well not to prolong it--to hurry on."

Then he took the telegram out of his pocket which had been put into his hands as he reached
the hotel, his mouth quivering again with the exultation which he had felt when he had received
it. It recalled to his ranging memory all the details of his hurried interview with the little
Widrington solicitor, who had already scented a job in the matter of Hurd's defence. This man--needy,
shrewd, and well equipped with local knowledge--had done work for Wharton and the party, and
asked nothing better than to stand well with the future member for the division. "There is
a lady," Wharton had said, "the daughter of Mr. Boyce of Mellor, who is already very much interested
in this fellow and his family. She takes this business greatly to heart. I have seen her this
morning, but had no time to discuss the matter with her. She will, I have little doubt, try
to help the relations in the arrangements for the defence. Go to her this morning--tell her
that the case has my sympathy--that, as she knows, I am a barrister, and, if she wishes it,
I will defend Hurd. I shall be hard put to it to get up the case with the election coming on,
but I will do it--for the sake of the public interest involved. You understand? Her father
is a Tory--and she is just about to marry Mr. Raeburn. Her position, therefore, is difficult.
Nevertheless, she will feel strongly--she does feel strongly about this case, and about the
whole game system--and I feel moved to support her. She will take her own line, whatever happens.
See her--see the wife, too, who is entirely under Miss Boyce's influence--and wire to me at
my hotel at Birmingham. If they wish to make other arrangements, well and good. I shall have
all the more time to give to the election."

Leaving this commission behind him, he had started on his journey. At the end of it a telegram
had been handed to him on the stairs of his hotel:

"Have seen the lady, also Mrs. Hurd. You are urgently asked to undertake defence."

He spread it out before him now, and pondered it. The bit of flimsy paper contained for him
the promise of all he most coveted,--influence, emotion, excitement. "She will have returns
upon herself," he thought smiling, "when I see her again. She will be dignified, resentful;
she will suspect everything I say or do--still more, she will suspect herself. No matter! The
situation is in my hands. Whether I succeed or fail, she will be forced to work with me, to
consult with me--she will owe me gratitude. What made her consent?--she must have felt it in
some sort a humiliation. Is it that Raeburn has been driving her to strong measures--that she
wants, woman-like, to win, and thought me after all her best chance, and put her pride in her
pocket? Or is it?--ah! one should put that out of one's head. It's like wine--it unsteadies
one. And for a thing like this one must go into training. Shall I write to her--there is just
time now, before I start--take the lofty tone, the equal masculine tone, which I have noticed
she likes?--ask her pardon for an act of madness--before we go together to the rescue of a
life? It might do--it might go down. But no, I think not! Let the situation develop itself.
Action and reaction--the unexpected--I commit myself to that. She--marry Aldous Raeburn in
a month? Well, she may--certainly she may. But there is no need for me, I think, to take it
greatly into account. Curious! twenty-four hours ago I thought it all done with--dead and done
with. 'So like Provvy,' as Bentham used to say, when he heard of anything particularly unseemly
in the way of natural catastrophe. Now to dine, and be off! How little sleep can I do with
in the next fortnight?"

He rang, ordered his cab, and then went to the coffee-room for some hasty food. As he was passing
one of the small tables with which the room was filled, a man who was dining there with a friend
recognised him and gave him a cold nod. Wharton walked on to the further end of the room, and,
while waiting for his meal, buried himself in the local evening paper, which already contained
a report of his speech.

"Did you see that man?" asked the stranger of his friend.

"The small young fellow with the curly hair?"

"Small young fellow, indeed! He is the wiriest athlete I know--extraordinary physical strength
for his size--and one of the cleverest rascals out as a politician. I am a neighbour of his
in the country. His property joins mine. I knew his father--a little, dried-up old chap of
the old school--very elegant manners and very obstinate--worried to death by his wife--oh,
my goodness! such a woman!"

"What's the name?" said the friend, interrupting.

"Wharton--H.S. Wharton. His mother was a daughter of Lord Westgate, and her mother was an actress
whom the old lord married in his dotage. Lady Mildred Wharton was like Garrick, only natural
when she was acting, which she did on every possible occasion. A preposterous woman! Old Wharton
ought to have beaten her for her handwriting, and murdered her for her gowns. Her signature
took a sheet of note-paper, and as for her dress I never could get out of her way. Whatever
part of the room I happened to be in I always found my feet tangled in her skirts. Somehow,
I never could understand how she was able to find so much stuff of one pattern. But it was
only to make you notice her, like all the rest. Every bit of her was a pose, and the maternal
pose was the worst of all."

"H.S. Wharton?" said the other. "Why, that's the man who has been speaking here to-day. I've
just been reading the account of it in the Evening Star. A big meeting--called by a joint committee
of the leading Birmingham trades to consider the Liberal election programme as it affects labour--that's
the man--he's been at it hammer and tongs--red-hot--all the usual devices for harrying the
employer out of existence, with a few trifles--graduated income-tax and land nationalisation--thrown
in. Oh! that's the man, is it?--they say he had a great reception--spoke brilliantly--and is
certainly going to get into Parliament next week."

The speaker, who had the air of a shrewd and prosperous manufacturer, put up his eyeglass to
look at this young Robespierre. His vis-à-vis--a stout country gentleman who had been in the
army and knocked about the world before coming into his estate--shrugged his shoulders.

"So I hear--he daren't show his nose as a candidate in our part of the world, though of course
he does us all the harm he can. I remember a good story of his mother--she quarrelled with
her husband and all her relations, his and hers, and then she took to speaking in public, accompanied
by her dear boy. On one occasion she was speaking at a market town near us, and telling the
farmers that as far as she was concerned she would like to see the big properties cut up to-morrow.
The sooner her father's and husband's estates were made into small holdings stocked with public
capital the better. After it was all over, a friend of mine, who was there, was coming home
in a sort of omnibus that ran between the town and a neighbouring village. He found himself
between two fat farmers, and this was the conversation--broad Lincolnshire, of course: 'Did
tha hear Lady Mildred Wharton say them things, Willum?' 'Aye, a did.' 'What did tha think,
Willum?' 'What did tha think, George?' 'Wal, aa thowt Laady Mildred Wharton wor a graät fule,
Willum, if tha asks me.' 'I'll uphowd tha, George! I'll uphowd tha!' said the other, and then
they talked no more for the rest of the journey."

The friend laughed.

"So it was from the dear mamma that the young man got his opinions?"

"Of course. She dragged him into every absurdity she could from the time he was fifteen. When
the husband died she tried to get the servants to come in to meals, but the butler struck.
So did Wharton himself, who, for a Socialist, has always showed a very pretty turn for comfort.
I am bound to say he was cut up when she died. It was the only time I ever felt like being
civil to him--in those months after she departed. I suppose she was devoted to him--which after
all is something."

"Good heavens!" said the other, still lazily turning over the pages of the newspaper as they
sat waiting for their second course, "here is another poaching murder--in Brookshire--the third
I have noticed within a month. On Lord Maxwell's property--you know them?"

"I know the old man a little--fine old fellow! They'll make him President of the Council, I
suppose. He can't have much work left in him; but it is such a popular, respectable name. Ah!
I'm sorry; the sort of thing to distress him terribly."

"I see the grandson is standing."

"Oh yes; will get in too. A queer sort of man--great ability and high character. But you can't
imagine him getting on in politics, unless it's by sheer weight of wealth and family influence.
He'll find a scruple in every bush--never stand the rough work of the House, or get on with
the men. My goodness! you have to pull with some queer customers nowadays. By the way, I hear
he is making an unsatisfactory marriage--a girl very handsome, but with no manners, and like
nobody else--the daughter, too, of an extremely shady father. It's surprising; you'd have thought
a man like Aldous Raeburn would have looked for the pick of things."

"Perhaps it was she looked for the pick of things!" said the other, with a blunt laugh. "Waiter,
another bottle of champagne."

CHAPTER XI.

Marcella was lying on the sofa in the Mellor drawing-room. The February evening had just been
shut out, but she had told William not to bring the lamps till they were rung for. Even the
fire-light seemed more than she could bear. She was utterly exhausted both in body and mind;
yet, as she lay there with shut eyes, and hands clasped under her cheek, a start went through
her at every sound in the house, which showed that she was not resting, but listening. She
had spent the morning in the Hurds' cottage, sitting by Mrs. Hurd and nursing the little boy.
Minta Hurd, always delicate and consumptive, was now generally too ill from shock and misery
to be anywhere but in her bed, and Willie was growing steadily weaker, though the child's spirit
was such that he would insist on dressing, on hearing and knowing everything about his father,
and on moving about the house as usual. Yet every movement of his wasted bones cost him the
effort of a hero, and the dumb signs in him of longing for his father increased the general
impression as of some patient creature driven by Nature to monstrous and disproportionate extremity.

The plight of this handful of human beings worked in Marcella like some fevering torture. She
was wholly out of gear physically and morally. Another practically sleepless night, peopled
with images of horror, had decreased her stock of sane self-control, already lessened by long
conflict of feeling and the pressure of self-contempt. Now, as she lay listening for Aldous
Raeburn's ring and step, she hardly knew whether to be angry with him for coming so late, or
miserable that he should come at all. That there was a long score to settle between herself
and him she knew well. Shame for an experience which seemed to her maiden sense indelible--both
a weakness and a treachery--lay like a dull weight on heart and conscience. But she would not
realise it, she would not act upon it. She shook the moral debate from her impatiently. Aldous
should have his due all in good time--should have ample opportunity of deciding whether he
would, after all, marry such a girl as she. Meanwhile his attitude with regard to the murder
exasperated her. Yet, in some strange way it relieved her to be angry and sore with him--to
have a grievance she could avow, and on which she made it a merit to dwell. His gentle, yet
firm difference of opinion with her on the subject struck her as something new in him. It gave
her a kind of fierce pleasure to fight it. He seemed somehow to be providing her with excuses--to
be coming down to her level--to be equalling wrong with wrong.

The door handle turned. At last! She sprang up. But it was only William coming in with the
evening post. Mrs. Boyce followed him. She took a quiet look at her daughter, and asked if
her headache was better, and then sat down near her to some needlework. During these two days
she had been unusually kind to Marcella. She had none of the little feminine arts of consolation.
She was incapable of fussing, and she never caressed. But from the moment that Marcella had
come home from the village that morning, a pale, hollow-eyed wreck, the mother had asserted
her authority. She would not hear of the girl's crossing the threshold again; she had put her
on the sofa and dosed her with sal-volatile. And Marcella was too exhausted to rebel. She had
only stipulated that a note should be sent to Aldous, asking him to come on to Mellor with
the news as soon as the verdict of the coroner's jury should be given. The jury had been sitting
all day, and the verdict was expected in the evening.

Marcella turned over her letters till she came to one from a London firm which contained a
number of cloth patterns. As she touched it she threw it aside with a sudden gesture of impatience,
and sat upright.

"Mamma! I have something to say to you."

"Yes, my dear."

"Mamma, the wedding must be put off!--it must!--for some weeks. I have been thinking about
it while I have been lying here. How can I?--you can see for yourself. That miserable woman
depends on me altogether. How can I spend my time on clothing and dressmakers? I feel as if
I could think of nothing else--nothing else in the world--but her and her children." She spoke
with difficulty, her voice high and strained. "The assizes may be held that very week--who
knows?--the very day we are married."

She stopped, looking at her mother almost threateningly. Mrs. Boyce showed no sign of surprise.
She put her work down.

"I had imagined you might say something of the kind," she said after a pause. "I don't know
that, from your point of view, it is unreasonable. But, of course, you must understand that
very few people will see it from your point of view. Aldous Raeburn may--you must know best.
But his people certainly won't; and your father will think it--"

"Madness," she was going to say, but with her usual instinct for the moderate fastidious word
she corrected it to "foolish."

Marcella's tired eyes were all wilfulness and defiance.

"I can't help it. I couldn't do it. I will tell Aldous at once. It must be put off for a month.
And even that," she added with a shudder, "will be bad enough."

Mrs. Boyce could not help an unperceived shrug of the shoulders, and a movement of pity towards
the future husband. Then she said drily,--

"You must always consider whether it is just to Mr. Raeburn to let a matter of this kind interfere
so considerably with his wishes and his plans. He must, I suppose, be in London for Parliament
within six weeks."

Marcella did not answer. She sat with her hands round her knees lost in perplexities. The wedding,
as originally fixed, was now three weeks and three days off. After it, she and Aldous were
to have spent a short fortnight's honeymoon at a famous house in the north, lent them for the
occasion by a Duke who was a cousin of Aldous's on the mother's side, and had more houses than
he knew what to do with. Then they were to go immediately up to London for the opening of Parliament.
The furnishing of the Mayfair house was being pressed on. In her new-born impatience with such
things, Marcella had hardly of late concerned herself with it at all, and Miss Raeburn, scandalised,
yet not unwilling, had been doing the whole of it, subject to conscientious worryings of the
bride, whenever she could be got hold of, on the subject of papers and curtains.

As they sat silent, the unspoken idea in the mother's mind was--"Eight weeks more will carry
us past the execution." Mrs. Boyce had already possessed herself very clearly of the facts
of the case, and it was her perception that Marcella was throwing herself headlong into a hopeless
struggle--together with something else--a confession perhaps of a touch of greatness in the
girl's temper, passionate and violent as it was, that had led to this unwonted softness of
manner, this absence of sarcasm.

Very much the same thought--only treated as a nameless horror not to be recognised or admitted--was
in Marcella's mind also, joined however with another, unsuspected even by Mrs. Boyce's acuteness.
"Very likely--when I tell him--he will not want to marry me at all--and of course I shall tell
him."

But not yet--certainly not yet. She had the instinctive sense that during the next few weeks
she should want all her dignity with Aldous, that she could not afford to put herself at a
disadvantage with him. To be troubled about her own sins at such a moment would be like the
meanness of the lazy and canting Christian, who whines about saving his soul while he ought
to be rather occupied with feeding the bodies of his wife and children.

A ring at the front door. Marcella rose, leaning one hand on the end of the sofa--a long slim
figure in her black dress--haggard and pathetic.

When Aldous entered, her face was one question. He went up to her and took her hand.

"In the case of Westall the verdict is one of 'Wilful Murder' against Hurd. In that of poor
Charlie Dynes the court is adjourned. Enough evidence has been taken to justify burial. But
there is news to-night that one of the Widrington gang has turned informer, and the police
say they will have their hands on them all within the next two or three days."

Marcella withdrew herself from him and fell back into the corner of the sofa. Shading her eyes
with her hand she tried to be very composed and business-like.

"Was Hurd himself examined?"

"Yes, under the new Act. He gave the account which he gave to you and to his wife. But the Court--"

"Did not believe it?"

"No. The evidence of motive was too strong. It was clear from his own account that he was out
for poaching purposes, that he was leading the Oxford gang, and that he had a gun while Westall
was unarmed. He admitted too that Westall called on him to give up the bag of pheasants he
held, and the gun. He refused. Then he says Westall came at him, and he fired. Dick Patton
and one or two others gave evidence as to the language he has habitually used about Westall
for months past."

"Cowards--curs!" cried Marcella, clenching both her hands, a kind of sob in her throat.

Aldous, already white and careworn, showed, Mrs. Boyce thought, a ray of indignation for an
instant. Then he resumed steadily--

"And Brown, our steward, gave evidence as to his employment since October. The coroner summed
up carefully, and I think fairly, and the verdict was given about half-past six."

"They took him back to prison?"

"Of course. He comes before the magistrates on Thursday."

"And you will be one!"

The girl's tone was indescribable.

Aldous started. Mrs. Boyce reddened with anger, and checking her instinct to intervene began
to put away her working materials that she might leave them together. While she was still busy
Aldous said:

"You forget; no magistrate ever tries a case in which he is personally concerned. I shall take
no part in the trial. My grandfather, of course, must prosecute."

"But it will be a bench of landlords," cried Marcella; "of men with whom a poacher is already
condemned."

"You are unjust to us, I think," said Aldous, slowly, after a pause, during which Mrs. Boyce
left the room--"to some of us, at any rate. Besides, as of course you know, the case will be
simply sent on for trial at the assizes. By the way "--his tone changed--"I hear to-night that
Harry Wharton undertakes the defence."

"Yes," said Marcella, defiantly. "Is there anything to say against it? You wouldn't wish Hurd
not to be defended, I suppose?"

"Marcella!"

Even her bitter mood was pierced by the tone. She had never wounded him so deeply yet, and
for a moment he felt the situation intolerable; the surging grievance and reproach, with which
his heart was really full, all but found vent in an outburst which would have wholly swept
away his ordinary measure and self-control. But then, as he looked at her, it struck his lover's
sense painfully how pale and miserable she was. He could not scold! But it came home to him
strongly that for her own sake and his it would be better there should be explanations. After
all things had been going untowardly for many weeks. His nature moved slowly and with much
self-doubt, but it was plain to him now that he must make a stand.

After his cry, her first instinct was to apologise. Then the words stuck in her throat. To
her, as to him, they seemed to be close on a trial of strength. If she could not influence
him in this matter--so obvious, as it seemed to her, and so near to her heart--what was to
become of that lead of hers in their married life, on which she had been reckoning from the
beginning? All that was worst in her and all that was best rose to the struggle.

But, as he did not speak, she looked up at last.

"I was waiting," he said in a low voice.

"What for?"

"Waiting till you should tell me you did not mean what you said."

She saw that he was painfully moved; she also saw that he was introducing something into their
relation, an element of proud self-assertion, which she had never felt in it before. Her own
vanity instantly rebelled.

"I ought not to have said exactly what I did," she said, almost stifled by her own excitement,
and making great efforts not to play the mere wilful child; "that I admit. But it has been
clear to me from the beginning that--that"--her words hurried, she took up a book and restlessly
lifted it and let it fall--"you have never looked at this thing justly. You have looked at
the crime as any one must who is a landowner; you have never allowed for the provocation; you
have not let yourself feel pity--"

He made an exclamation.

"Do you know where I was before I went into the inquest?"

"No," she said defiantly, determined not to be impressed, feeling a childish irritation at
the interruption.

"I was with Mrs. Westall. Harden and I went in to see her. She is a hard, silent woman. She
is clearly not popular in the village, and no one comes in to her. Her"--he hesitated--"her
baby is expected before long. She is in such a state of shock and excitement that Clarke thinks
it quite possible she may go out of her mind. I saw her sitting by the fire, quite silent,
not crying, but with a wild eye that means mischief. We have sent in a nurse to help Mrs. Jellison
watch her. She seems to care nothing about her boy. Everything that that woman most desired
in life has been struck from her at a blow. Why? That a man who was in no stress of poverty,
who had friends and employment, should indulge himself in acts which he knew to be against
the law, and had promised you and his wife to forego, and should at the same time satisfy a
wild beast's hatred against the man, who was simply defending his master's property. Have you
no pity for Mrs. Westall or her child?"

He spoke as calmly as he could, making his appeal to reason and moral sense; but, in reality,
every word was charged with electric feeling.

"I am sorry for her!" cried Marcella, passionately. "But, after all, how can one feel for the
oppressor, or those connected with him, as one does for the victim?" He shook his head, protesting
against the word, but she rushed on. "You do know--for I told you yesterday--how under the
shelter of this hateful game system Westall made Kurd's life a burden to him when he was a
young man--how he had begun to bully him again this past year. We had the same sort of dispute
the other day about that murder in Ireland. You were shocked that I would not condemn the Moonlighters
who had shot their landlord from behind a hedge, as you did. You said the man had tried to
do his duty, and that the murder was brutal and unprovoked. But I thought of the system--of
the memories in the minds of the murderers. There were excuses--he suffered for his father--I
am not going to judge that as I judge other murders. So, when a Czar of Russia is blown up,
do you expect one to think only of his wife and children? No! I will think of the tyranny and
the revolt; I will pray, yes, pray that I might have courage to do as they did! You may think
me wild and mad. I dare say. I am made so. I shall always feel so!"

She flung out her words at him, every limb quivering under the emotion of them. His cool, penetrating
eye, this manner she had never yet known in him, exasperated her.

"Where was the tyranny in this case?" he asked her quietly. "I agree with you that there are
murders and murders. But I thought your point was that here was neither murder nor attack,
but only an act of self-defence. That is Hurd's plea."

She hesitated and stumbled. "I know," she said, "I know. I believe it. But, even if the attack
had been on Hurd's part, I should still find excuses, because of the system, and because of
Westall's hatefulness."

He shook his head again.

"Because a man is harsh and masterful, and uses stinging language, is he to be shot down like
a dog?"

There was a silence. Marcella was lashing herself up by thoughts of the deformed man in his
cell, looking forward after the wretched, unsatisfied life, which was all society had allowed
him, to the violent death by which society would get rid of him--of the wife yearning her heart
away--of the boy, whom other human beings, under the name of law, were about to separate from
his father for ever. At last she broke out thickly and indistinctly:

"The terrible thing is that I cannot count upon you--that now I cannot make you feel as I do--feel
with me. And by-and-by, when I shall want your help desperately, when your help might be everything--I
suppose it will be no good to ask it."

He started, and bending forward he possessed himself of both her hands--her hot trembling hands--and
kissed them with a passionate tenderness.

"What help will you ask of me that I cannot give? That would be hard to bear!"

Still held by him, she answered his question by another:

"Give me your idea of what will happen. Tell me how you think it will end."

"I shall only distress you, dear," he said sadly.

"No; tell me. You think him guilty. You believe he will be convicted."

"Unless some wholly fresh evidence is forthcoming," he said reluctantly, "I can see no other
issue."

"Very well; then he will be sentenced to death. But, after sentence--I know--that man from
Widrington, that solicitor told me--if--if strong influence is brought to bear--if anybody
whose word counts--if Lord Maxwell and you, were to join the movement to save him--There is
sure to be a movement--the Radicals will take it up. Will you do it--will you promise me now--for
my sake?"

He was silent.

She looked at him, all her heart burning in her eyes, conscious of her woman's power too, and
pressing it.

"If that man is hung," she said pleadingly, "it will leave a mark on my life nothing will ever
smooth out. I shall feel myself somehow responsible. I shall say to myself, if I had not been
thinking about my own selfish affairs--about getting married--about the straw-plaiting--I might
have seen what was going on. I might have saved these people, who have been my friends--my
real friends--from this horror."

She drew her hands away and fell back on the sofa, pressing her handkerchief to her eyes. "If
you had seen her this morning!" she said in a strangled voice. "She was saying, 'Oh, miss,
if they do find him guilty, they can't hang him--not my poor deformed Jim, that never had a
chance of being like the others. Oh, we'll beg so hard. I know there's many people will speak
for him. He was mad, miss, when he did it. He'd never been himself, not since last winter,
when we all sat and starved, and he was driven out of his senses by thinking of me and the
children. You'll get Mr. Raeburn to speak--won't you, miss?--and Lord Maxwell? It was their
game. I know it was their game. But they'll forgive him. They're such great people, and so
rich--and we--we've always had such a struggle. Oh, the bad times we've had, and no one know!
They'll try and get him off, miss? Oh, I'll go and beg of them.'"

She stopped, unable to trust her voice any further. He stooped over her and kissed her brow.
There was a certain solemnity in the moment for both of them. The pity of human fate overshadowed
them. At last he said firmly, yet with great feeling:

