CLEANLINESS.

Although we have referred to this before, yet, as it is of considerable importance not only
to the children but to those around them, it may not be amiss to take up a little more of the
reader's time, and to state the different plans that have been devised, in order to make the
children as clean as possible. In one case, a trough was erected, and a pipe provided to convey
the water into it; but before it had been up a month, it was found, that instead of answering
the end intended, it had quite a contrary effect; for the children dabbled in the trough, and
made themselves ten times worse than they were, by wetting themselves from head to foot; besides
which, it frequently caused them to take cold, of which the parents complained. Some took their
children away without notice; others came and gave the master what they called "a good set
down." It was, therefore, thought necessary to forbid the children washing themselves, and
to wash all that came dirty. But it was soon found that the dirty children increased so fast,
that it required one person's time to attend to them; besides which, it had another bad effect,
it encouraged the parents in laziness; and they told me, when I complained of their sending
the children to school dirty, "That indeed they had no time to wash their children; there was
a trough in the school for that purpose, and the persons who had charge of the school were
paid for it, and ought to do it." In consequence of this, the trough was taken away, and it
was represented to the parents, that it was their duty to keep their children clean; that unless
they did so, they would be sent home to be washed; and if they persisted in sending them without
being washed, there would be no alternative left but to dismiss them from the school altogether.
This offended some of the parents, and they took their children out of the school, but many
afterwards petitioned to have them readmitted. I mention this merely to prevent others, who
may be concerned in the establishment of infant schools, from incurring an unnecessary expense,
and to shew that the parents will value the school equally as well if you make them wash their
children, as if you did it for them.

The plan that we have acted upon to enforce cleanliness, is as follows: As soon as the children
are assembled in the school, the monitors cause them to hold out their hands, with their heads
up; they then inspect their hands and their faces, and all those who are dirty are desired
to stand out, to be examined by the master, who will easily perceive whether they have been
washed that morning; if not, they are sent home to be washed, and if the mother has any sense
of propriety, she will take care that it shall not often occur. But it may be found, that some
have been washed, and been playing with the dirt, when coming to school, which some children
are very apt to do; in this case they have a pat on the hand, which generally cures them. There
is much trouble at first, to keep the children quite clean; some of their parents are habitually
dirty, and in such cases the children will be like them; these will, therefore, require more
trouble than others, but they will soon acquire cleanly habits, and, with proper management,
become as cleanly as any of the other children. As soon as a child is taken into the school
the monitor shows him a certain place, and explains to him, that when he wants to go into the
yard, he is to ask him, and he will accompany him there. Of course there are separate accommodations
for each sex, and such prudential arrangements made as the case requires, but which it is unnecessary
further to particularize.[A]

[Footnote A: This is a subject of the highest importance in moral training, and deserve the
serious attention of committees as well as teachers: inattention to these matters, may demoralize
every child that enters the school. In many schools throughout the country I have seen great
want of attention to this subject, the seats were too high, the circular holes too large, causing
fear on the part of the infants, and also bad habits. The seats should be the same height as
the seats in the school--six inches, and nine inches high, the diameter of the holes seven
inches and nine inches--the teachers should constantly visit these places, inculcate habits
of delicacy and cleanliness. Such habits formed in childhood are never forgotten. Superfine
dressy teachers, will be too proud, and too high, to attend to these things--but the judicious
mother or matron will at once see their importance and act accordingly--"as the twig is bent
the tree's inclined."]

2. NEVER FRIGHTEN CHILDREN.

It is common for many persons to threaten to put children into the black hole, or to call the
sweep to take them away in his bag, when they do not behave as they ought; but the ill effects
of this mode of proceeding may be perceived from the following fact. I knew a child, who had
been to one of those schools where the children of mechanics are usually sent, called dames'
schools, which was kept by an elderly woman, who, it seems, had put this child into the coal-hole,
and told him, that unless he was a good boy, the black man would come and take him away; this
so frightened the child, that he fell into a violent fit, and never afterwards could bear the
sight of this woman. On the mother getting the child admitted into our school, she desired
me to be very gentle with him, relating to me all the above story, except that the child had
had a fit. About a fortnight after the admission of the child, he came running one day into
the school, exclaiming, "I'll be a good boy, master! master! I'll be a good boy." As soon as
he caught sight of me, he clung round, and grasped me with such violence, that I really thought
the child was mad; in a few minutes after this he went into strong convulsions, and was such
a dreadful spectacle, that I thought the child would die in my arms. In this state he remained
for about twenty minutes, and I fully expected he would be carried out of the school a corpse.
I sent for the mother, but on her arrival I perceived she was less alarmed than myself; she
immediately said, the child was in a fit, and that I had frightened him into it. I told her
that she was mistaken; that the child had only just entered the school, and I was ignorant
of the cause of his fright; but several of my little scholars soon set the matter to rest,
by stating the particulars of the fright, which they observed when coming to school. It seems
that a man was in the street, who sweeps chimneys with a machine, and just as the little fellow
passed him, he called out, "Sweep;" this so alarmed the child, that he thought the man was
going to take him, and was affected by his fears in the way I have stated. The child, however,
getting better, and the mother hearing what the children said, begged my pardon for having
accused me wrongfully, and then told me the whole particulars of his first fright and the woman
and the coal-hole. I had the greatest difficulty imaginable to persuade him, that a sweep was
a human being, and that he loved little children as much as other persons. After some time,
the child got somewhat the better of his fears, but not wholly so. He had but one fit afterwards.
This shews how improper it is to confine children by themselves, or to threaten them in the
manner described. Many persons continue nervous all their lives through such treatment, and
are so materially injured, that they are frightened at their own shadow.

It is also productive of much mischief to talk of mysteries, ghosts, and hobgoblins, before
children, which many persons are too apt to do. Some deal so much in the marvellous, that I
really believe they frighten many children out of their senses. I recollect, when I was a child,
hearing such stories, till I have actually been afraid to look behind me. How many persons
are frightened at such a little creature as a mouse, because the nature of that little creature
has not been explained to them in their infancy. Indeed, children should have all things shewn
them, if possible, that they are likely to meet with: and above all, it should be impressed
upon their minds, that if they meet with no injury from the living, it is most certain the
dead will never hurt them, and that he who fears God, need have no other fear. It is also common
with many persons, to put a disobedient child into a room by itself. I cannot approve of this
method, as the child is frequently frightened into quietness without improving his temper in
the least; if it be day time it is not so bad, but if it be dark, the consequences are often
serious, and materially injure the constitution of the child. The more I reflect upon this
subject, the more do I see its impropriety. I would rather use the rod, in moderation, and
mercy. I am sure it is better for the disobedient and unruly child, and more according to the
dealings of the Creator with us all. I can truly say my punishments, which have not been slight,
have done me good. As children we cannot see these things; as men and thinkers, we can. Yea!
and kiss the rod.

3. GUARD AGAINST FORGETFULNESS.

The circumstance I am about to mention, shews how necessary it is to teach by example as well
as precept. Many of the children were in the habit of bringing marbles, tops, whistles, and
other toys, to the school, which often caused much disturbance; for they would play with them
instead of attending to their lessons, and I found it necessary to forbid the children from
bringing anything of the kind. After giving notice, therefore, two or three times in the school,
I told them that if any of them brought such things, they would be taken away from them. In
consequence of this, several things fell into my hands, which I did not always think of returning,
and, among other things, a whistle belonging to a little boy. The child asked me for it as
he was going home, but having several visitors at the time, put him off, telling him not to
plague me, and he went home. I had forgotten the circumstance altogether, but it appears the
child had not; for some time after, while I was lecturing the children upon the necessity of
telling truth, and on the wickedness of stealing, the little fellow approached me, and said,
"Please, sir, you stole my whistle." "Stole your whistle!" said I; "did I not give it you again?"
"No, teacher, I asked you for it, and you would not give it to me." I stood self-convicted,
being accused in the middle of my lecture, before all the children, and really at a loss to
know what excuse to make, for I had mislaid the whistle, and could not return it to the child.
I immediately gave the child a halfpenny, and said all I could to persuade the children that
it was not my intention to keep it.

However, I am satisfied that this trifling mistake of mine did more harm than I was able to
repair during some time; for if we wish to teach children to be honest, we should never take
anything from them without returning it again. Indeed, persons having charge of children can
never be too cautious, and should not, on any account whatever, break a promise; for experience
has taught me that most children have good memories, and if you once promise a thing and do
not perform it, they will pay very little attention to what you say afterwards.

4. OBSERVE PUNCTUALITY.

A little girl, whose mother was dead, was often absent from school. She was never at a loss
for excuses, but from their frequency I was at last induced to suspect their truth. None of
the children knew where she resided; so I was obliged to send the eldest boy in the school
home with her, to ascertain whether or not her stories were true. I gave the boy positive directions
to make haste back; but, much to my surprise, I saw no more of him for six hours. When he returned,
he told me that the little girl refused to shew him where she lived; and had taken him so far,
that he at last determined to leave her, but could not find his way back sooner. In the evening
I went myself, according to the direction I had entered in the admission-book, but found that
the family were removed, and the persons in the house could not tell me where they had gone
to reside. I saw nothing of the child for the five following days, when a woman who had the
care of her and her little brother in arms, came to inquire the reason why the girl came home
at such irregular hours, stating, that sometimes she came home at half-past eleven, at other
times not till two, and sometimes at three in the afternoon: in short, often an hour after
school was over. I told her that the child was frequently absent, and that it was five days
since I had seen her. The woman appeared quite surprised, and told me, that she had always
sent the child to school at the regular time; that when she came home before the usual hour,
she said her governess had sent all the children home a little sooner; and if she came home
after the time, then she said that there had been some ladies visiting the school, and that
the children had been kept for their inspection.

Here I must acknowledge, that I have frequently detained children a little while after school-hours,
when we have had visitors, but since it furnishes the children with an excuse for going home
late, I think it would be better to discontinue the practice; and would hint to those ladies
and gentlemen who feel inclined to visit such schools, that they should come between the hours
of nine and twelve in the forenoon, or two and four in the afternoon. I have only to observe,
that the child I have been speaking of came to the school very regularly afterwards.

There is another subject too important to be passed without notice; I mean the punctual attendance
of the pupils. If the teachers are firm, and determined, to secure this, it can be done. In
Ireland, where the value of time and punctuality is least understood, the thing was accomplished,--whilst
no better lesson can be given to those who have to work for their daily bread, than punctuality.
If a child cannot attend school at nine, how can it attend work at six in the morning? Be firm,
and the object is gained.

5. BE STRICTLY ACCURATE IN YOUR EXPRESSIONS.

One day when the children were assembled in the gallery, having none of their usual lessons
at hand, I took from my pocket a piece of paper, and promised them that if they would answer
me every question I put concerning the paper, I would at last make a paper boat. I proceeded
in the following manner: "What is this?" "What colour?" "What is its use?" "How made!" "What
made of?" &c. These questions being answered according to their different views, and having
folded the paper into a variety of forms, and obtained their ideas upon such forms, I proceeded
to fulfil my promise of forming it into the shape of a boat; but the children, seeing me at
a loss, exclaimed, "Please, sir, you can't do it;" which proved the fact, as I had forgotten
the plan, and was obliged to make the confession. "Then, sir," rejoined one of the boys, "you
should not have promised."

In the course of my observations I had frequently enjoined the children to make every possible
use of their thinking powers, but it appears I had at the same time forgotten to make use of
my own, and consequently had been betrayed into a promise which I was not able to perform.

I remember some other instances:

One of the children happened to kick another. The injured party complained to the person who
then had the charge of the school, saying, "Please, sir, this boy kicked me." It being time
for the children to leave school, the master waved his hand towards the gate through which
the children pass, thoughtlessly saying, at the same time, "Kick away;" meaning that the complainant
was to take no more notice of the affair, but go home. The complainant, however, returning
to the other child, began kicking him, and received some kicks himself. A friend was present,
and seeing two children kicking each other, he very naturally inquired the reason. "Please,
sir," replied the children, "master told us!" "Master told you," says the gentleman, "that
cannot be; I'll ask him." He accordingly inquired into the truth of the affair, and received
for answer, "Certainly not." "Yes," said the child, "you did, sir; did not I tell you just
now that a boy kicked me?" "Yes," says the master, "you did." "Then, please sir," says the
child, "you told me to go and kick away!" The master immediately recollected that he had said so.

This fact shews how improper it is to say one thing to a child and mean another. These children
were under the influence of obedience, and in the light of truth, and being in that light,
they could see from no other, and very naturally concluded the master meant what he had said.

One day some visitors requested I would call out a class of the children to be examined. Having
done so, I asked the visitors in what they would wish the children to be examined; at the same
time stating that they might hear the children examined in natural history, Scriptural history,
arithmetic, spelling, geography, or geometry. They choose the latter, and I proceded to examine
the children accordingly; beginning with straight lines. Having continued this examination
for about half an hour, we proceeded to enter into particulars respecting triangles; and having
discoursed on the difference between isosceles triangles and scalene triangles, I observed
that an acute isosceles triangle had all its angles acute, and proceeded to observe that a
right-angled scalene triangle had all its angles acute. The children immediately began to laugh,
for which I was at a loss to account, and told them of the impropriety of laughing at me. One
of the children immediately replied, "Please, sir, do you know what we were laughing at?" I
replied in the negative. "Then, sir," says the boy, "I will tell you. Please, sir, you have
made a blunder." I, thinking I had not, proceeded to defend myself, when the children replied,
"Please, sir, you convict yourself." I replied, "How so?" "Why," says the children, "you said
a right-angled triangle had one right angle, and that all its angles are acute. If it has one
right angle, how can all its angles be acute?" I soon perceived the children were right, and
that I was wrong. Here, then, the reader may perceive the fruits of teaching the children to
think, inasmuch as it is shewn that children of six years of age and under were able to refute
their tutor. If children had been taught to think many years ago, error would have been much
more easily detected, and its baneful influence would not have had that effect upon society
which at this day unfortunately we are obliged to witness.

At another time I was lecturing the children in the gallery on the subject of cruelty to animals;
when one of the little children observed, "Please, sir, my big brother catches the poor flies,
and then sticks a pin through them, and makes them draw the pin along the table." This afforded
me an excellent opportunity of appealing to their feelings on the enormity of this offence,
and, among other things, I observed, that if the poor fly had been gifted with the powers of
speech like their own, it probably would have exclaimed, while dead, as follows:--"You naughty
child, how can you think of torturing me so? Is there not room in the world for you and me?
Did I ever do you any harm? Does it do you any good to put me in such pain? Why do you do it,
you are big enough to know better? How would you like a man to run a piece of wire through
your body, and make you draw things about? Would you not cry at the pain? Go, then, you wicked
boy, and learn to leave off such cruel actions." Having finished, one of the children replied,
"How can any thing speak if it is dead?" "Why," said I, "supposing it could speak." "You meant
to say, sir," was the rejoinder, "dying instead of dead."

It will, of course be understood that in this case I purposely misused a word, and the children
being taught to think, easily detected it.

6. WATCH AGAINST THE ENTRANCE OF DISEASE.

It may, probably, be considered presumption in me, to speak of the diseases of children, as
this more properly belongs to the faculty; but let it be observed, that my pretension is not
to cure the diseases that children are subject to, but only to prevent those which are infectious
from spreading. I have found that children between the ages of two and seven years, are subject
to the measles, hooping cough, fever, ophthalmia, ringworm, scald-head, and in very poor neighbourhoods,
the itch--and small-pox. This last is very rare, owing to the great encouragement given to
vaccination; and were it not for the obstinacy of many of the poor, I believe it would be totally
extirpated. During the whole of the time I superintended a school, I heard of only three children
dying of it, and those had never been vaccinated. I always made a point of inquiring, on the
admission of a child, whether this operation had been performed, and, if not, I strongly recommended
that it should be. If parents spoke the truth, I had but few children in the school who had
not been vaccinated: this accounts, therefore, for having lost but three children through the
small-pox.

The measles, however, I consider a very dangerous disorder, and we lost a great many children
by it, besides two of my own. It is preceded by a violent cough, the child's eyes appear watery,
and it will also be sick. As soon as these symptoms are perceived, I would immediately send
the child home, and desire the parents to keep it there for a few days, in order to ascertain
if it have the measles, and if so, it must be prohibited from returning to school until well.
This caution is absolutely necessary; as some parents are so careless, that they will send
their children when the measles are thick out upon them.

The same may be said with respect to other diseases, for unless the persons who have charge
of the school attend to these things, the parents will be glad to get their children out of
the way, and will send them, though much afflicted, without considering the ill-effects that
may be produced in the school. Whether such conduct in the parents proceeds from ignorance
or not, I am not able to say, but this I know, that I have had many parents offer children
for admission, with all the diseases I have mentioned, and who manifested no disposition to
inform me of it. The number of children who may be sick, from time to time, may be averaged
at from twenty to thirty-five, out of two hundred, we have never had less than twenty absent
on account of illness, and once or twice we had as many as fifty.

Soon after I first took charge of the establishment, I found that there were five or six children
in the school who had the measles; the consequence was, that it contaminated the whole school,
and about eight children died, one of my own being of that number. This induced me to be very
cautious in future, and I made a point of walking round the school twice every day, in order
to inspect the children; and after the adoption of this plan, we did not have the measles in
the school.

The hooping-cough is known, of course, by the child hooping; but I consider it the safest plan
to send all children home that have any kind of cough; this will cause the mother to come and
inquire the reason why the child is sent home; and it can be ascertained from her whether the
child has had the hooping-cough or not.

With respect to fever, I generally find the children appear chilly and cold, and not unfrequently
they are sick. I do not, however, feel myself competent to describe the early symptoms of this
disorder, but the best way to prevent its gaining ground in the school is to send all the children
home who appear the least indisposed.

As to the ophthalmia, I can describe the symptoms of that disease, having had it myself, together
with the whole of my family. It generally comes in the left eye first, and causes a sensation
as if something was in the eye, which pricks and shoots, and produces great pain: the white
of the eye will appear red, or what is usually called blood-shot; this, if not speedily attended
to, will cause blindness; I have had several children that have been blind with it for several
days. In the morning, the patients are not able to unclose their eyes for some time after they
are awake. As soon as I observe these appearances, I immediately send the child home; for I
have ascertained, beyond a doubt, that the disease is contagious, and if a child be suffered
to remain with it in the school, the infection will speedily spread among the children.

As children are frequently apt to burn or scald themselves, I will here insert a method for
adoption in such cases. It is very simple, yet infallible; at least, I have never known it
to fail. It is no other than the application of common writing ink. One of my own children
burnt its hand dreadfully, and was cured by immediately washing it all over with that liquid.
Several children burnt their hands against the pipe that was connected with the stove in the
school-room, and were cured by the same means. One boy, in particular, took hold of a hot cinder
that fell from the fire, and it quite singed his hand; I applied ink to it, and it was cured
in a very short time. Let any one, therefore, who may happen to receive a burn, apply ink to
it immediately, and he will soon witness the good effects of the application. Thirty-three
years' experience has proved to me that stoves in any school are a nuisance: the common fire
place is better than heating with hot air, hot water, or stoves of any description that I have
yet seen. The grate being low, as at railway stations, is an improvement and answers well.
Had theorists seen the white faced dull eyed children that I have seen, where stoves are used,
and felt the head aches which I have felt, they would soon banish them from every school.

7. NEVER CORRECT A CHILD IN ANGER.

8. NEVER OVERLOOK A FAULT.

9. IN ALL THINGS SET BEFORE THE CHILDREN AN EXAMPLE WORTHY OF IMITATION.

       *       *       *       *       *

I should recommend the adoption of the following resolutions of an intelligent and zealous
committee, and that a copy of them be sent to each master and mistress.

"That as this infant school is established for the express purpose of carrying into the fullest
effect the system of Mr. Wilderspin, which the committee are convinced is practicable and excellent,
the master be desired to make himself perfectly acquainted with it, in its physical, mental,
and moral bearings, by a study of Mr. Wilderspin's works on the subject, and particularly of
the last and most complete edition.

"That the rules as printed be strictly adhered to by the master. That children who are ill,
having hooping-cough, ringworm, or other contagious disease, be refused admission until perfectly
restored. That the business of the school begin precisely at the time appointed, and that during
the shortest days the signals for leaving school be not given till four o'clock precisely.

"That except during the time given, according to the system, to play, the whole be occupied
by the mistress as well as the master in the instruction of the children, and that the plan
laid down in Mr. Wilderspin's book, be followed as nearly as possible, so that the apparatus
already provided may be gradually brought into action, and the children have all the advantages
of the system; the master and mistress so dividing their labour that all the children may be
occupied.

"That the master and mistress pay the utmost attention to the children learning to read.

"That when a child is absent a week, the master state the cause to the treasurer, to prevent
mistakes as to the payments, and that when a child declines attending or is excluded, immediate
notice be given to the secretary of the ladies' committee.

"That the master be desired to go on with the business of the school when visitors who are
members of the committee are present, and only to pay particular attention to those who may
be strangers, and who require information.

"That all applications from the master be made to the committee through the secretary.

"That all orders from the committee to the teachers be conveyed through the same channel."

There is no part of the infant system which has been more misunderstood, than the system of
giving lessons in the gallery; and hence I have thought it necessary to devote a larger space
to the subject, than I did in the former editions of this work. The gallery was originally
intended by me, to give the children such lessons as appealed directly to the senses, either
orally or by representative objects: thus the teaching arithmetic by the frame and balls, inasmuch
as it appealed to the eye as well as to the understanding, was suitable for a gallery lesson.
The same observations hold good with respect to a Scripture picture, or the representation
of an animal, a tree, or any object that can be presented to the eye. We have also found it
very useful in teaching the catechism, or anything that is to be committed to memory, and this
part of our plan has proved so useful and successful, that it has been adopted in many schools
for older children of both sexes, I mean in the Normal schools of Glasgow and Edinburgh, the
Corporation Schools of Liverpool, and the government Model Schools at Dublin. In the two latter
the arrangements, both in the fittings up of the play-grounds, galleries, and school-rooms,
were made under my especial inspection, and I have no doubt that the use of the gallery, when
it becomes more generally known in large schools, will become universal.

The taught should see the face of the teacher in these lessons, and the teacher should see
the face of the taught: it establishes a sympathy between both to the advantage of each. The
face is the index to the mind, and at times shews the intention, even without words. Some animals
can read this index: the horse, the dog, the elephant, and many of the higher order of animals.
Children can always read the countenance of the sincere, the wise, and the good. Yea! mere
infants can. Reader! Don't smile! were this the time and place, I could demonstrate these opinions
by facts. This is not a book for controversy and metaphysical disquisition; but for use to
teachers. When the children and teachers see each other, as in the gallery, the effect is highly
beneficial. This may be proved by any teacher. As to the cause for this effect, it would be
out of place to argue it here. I therefore simply state it is true. Sympathy is a power destined
to be of use in teaching, and hereafter will be better understood.

Many friends to infant education, and casual visitors, having found these erections in infant
schools, have concluded that the children should always be sitting on them, which is a fatal
error, and deprives the children of that part of the system which legislates for the exercise
of their locomotive powers, such as the spelling and reading lessons, and the method of teaching
object lessons, as described in another part of this work: the consequence has been, that the
schools have become mere parrot-schools, and the children are restless and inattentive. And
this has not been the only evil that has attended a misapplication of the gallery; for the
teachers, for want of knowing the system properly, have been at a loss how to occupy the time
of the children, and scores of teachers have ruined their own constitutions, and also the constitutions
of some of the children, by the perpetual talking and singing, which, I am sorry to say, too
many consider to be the sum total of the system: and I may state here, that the children should
never be more than one hour at a time, or, at most two hours, during the day, in the gallery.
All beyond this is injurious to the teacher, and doubly so to the little pupils. The forenoon
is always the best time for gallery lessons; the teacher's mind is more clear, and the minds
of the children are more receptive. After the children have taken their dinner they should
be entertained with the object lessons, a small portion of spelling and reading, and the rest
of the afternoon should be devoted to moral and physical teaching in the play-ground, if the
weather will at all permit it. The more you rob your children of their physical education to
shew off their intellectual acquirements, the more injury you do their health and your own;
and in the effort to do too much, you violate the laws of nature, defeat your own object, and
make the school a hot-bed of precocity, instead of a rational infants' school for the training
and educating infants. I have been blamed, by writers on the infant system, for that which
I never did, and never recommended; I have been made answerable for the errors and mis-conceptions
of others, who have not troubled themselves to read my writings; and, in their anxiety to produce
something new and original, have strayed from the very essential parts of the plan, and on
this account I am charged by several writers with being unacquainted with the philosophy of
my own system. I thought three-and-thirty years ago that if I could arrest public attention
to the subject, it was as much as could be expected. I knew very well at that time that a dry
philosophical detail would neither be received or read. My object was to appeal to the senses
of the public by doing the thing in every town where practicable. By this method I succeeded,
where the other would have failed, but it by no means followed that I was unacquainted with
the philosophy of my own plans, merely because I preferred the doing of the thing to the writing
about it. Believing, however, that the time has now arrived, and that the public mind is better
prepared than it was then, I have thought I might venture to go a little more into detail,
in order to remove some well founded objections, which, but for this reason, would not have
existed. The infant mind, like a tender plant, requires to be handled and dealt with carefully,
for if it be forced and injudiciously treated during the first seven years of its existence,
it will affect its whole constitution as long as it lives afterwards. There are hundreds of
persons who will not believe this, and those persons will employ mere boys and girls to teach
infants. Let them do so if they please; I simply protest against it, and merely give it as
my opinion that it is highly improper to do so. If ever infant schools are to become real blessings
to the country, they must be placed under the care of wise, discreet, and experienced persons,
for no others will be fit or able to develop and cultivate the infant faculties aright. I have
felt it necessary to make these remarks, because in different parts of the country I have found
mere children employed as school-masters and school-mistresses, to the great detriment of the
young committed to their charge, and the dishonour of the country that permits it. No wise
man would put a mere child to break his colts; none but a foolish one would employ an inexperienced
boy to break in his dogs; even the poultry and pigs would be attended by a person who knew
something about them; but almost any creature who can read and write, and is acquainted with
the first rules of arithmetic, is too frequently thought a fit and proper person to superintend
infants. I know many instances of discarded servants totally unfit, made teachers of infants,
merely to put them in place; to the destruction of the highest and most noble of God's creatures!
which I contend infants are. To expect that such persons can give gallery lessons as they ought
to be given, is expecting what will never, nor can take place. The public must possess different
views of the subject; more rational ideas on the art of teaching must be entertained, and greater
remuneration must be given to teachers, and greater efforts made to train and educate them,
to fit them for the office, before any very beneficial results can be seen; and it is to produce
such results, and a better tone of feeling on the subject, that I have thus ventured to give
my opinion more in detail. Efficient gallery lessons--efficient teachers must be made. They
do not at present exist in large numbers, and can only be made by a suitable reward being held
out to them, and by their being placed under the superintendence of experienced persons acquainted
with the art. The art of teaching is no mean art, and must, sooner or later, take its proper
rank amongst the other sciences. It is a science which requires deep study and knowledge of
human character, and is only to be learned like all other sciences, by much perseverance and
practice. In another work, on the education of older children, I have given some specimens
of gallery lessons; in this I shall endeavour to give a few specimens of what I think useful
lessons for infants, and shall also try to clothe them in language suited to the infant apprehensions;
and I sincerely hope they may shew in a plain manner the method of giving this species of instruction
to the children, and that teachers who were before ignorant of it, may be benefitted thereby.
I shall not pretend to give my opinion as to whether I have succeeded, but will leave this
point entirely to the judgment and candour of my readers; for I know by experience that it
is a very difficult thing to put practice into theory; and although this may seem paradoxical,
yet I have no doubt that many have experienced the very same results when trying to explain
theoretically on paper what they have with ease practised a thousand times.

