'When you are her son, you may manage her as you please.  Just now she has us in her power,
and can impose conditions.  Come on; and if you are good, you shall hear.'

Drawing James along with him through the beechwood glades, he began, 'You would have been more
insane still if you had guessed at my luck. I found Isabel alone.  Mrs. Mansell had taken the
girls to some juvenile fete, and Delaford was discreet enough not to rouse my aunt from her
letters.  I augured well from the happy conjunction.'

'Go on; don't waste time in stuff.'

'Barkis is willing, then.  Is that enough to the point?'

'Fitzjocelyn, you never had any feelings yourself, and therefore you trifle with those of others.'

'I beg your pardon.  It was a shame!  Jem, you may be proud.  She trusts you completely, and
whatever you think sufficient, she regards as ample.'

'Like her!  Only too like her.  Such confidence makes one feel a redoubled responsibility.'

'I thought I had found something at which you could not grumble.'

'How does she look?  How do they treat her?'

'Apparently they have not yet fed her on bread and water.  No; seriously, I must confess that
she looked uncommonly well and lovely! Never mind, Jem; I verily believe that, in spite of
absence and all that, she had never been so happy in her life.  If any description could convey
the sweetness of voice and manner when she spoke of you! I could not look in her face.  Those
looks can only be for you.  We talked it over, but she heeded no ways and means; it was enough
that you were satisfied.  She says the subject has never been broached since the flight from
Northwold, and that Lady Conway's kindness never varies; and she told me she had little fear
but that her dear mamma would be prevailed on to give sanction enough to hinder her from feeling
as if she were doing wrong, or setting a bad example to her sisters.  They know nothing of
it; but Walter, who learnt it no one knows how, draws the exemplary moral, that it serves his
mother right for inflicting a tutor on him.'

'Has she had my letter?  Does she know I am here?'

'Wait!  All this settled, and luncheon being ready, down came my Lady, and we played unconsciousness
to our best ability.  I must confess my aunt beat us hollow!  Isabel then left us to our conference,
which we conducted with the gravity of a tailor and an old woman making a match in Brittany.'

'You came out with that valuable improvable freehold, the Terrace, I suppose?'

'I told the mere facts!  My aunt was rather grand about a grammar-school; she said even a curacy
would sound better, and she must talk it over with Isabel.  I gave your letter, conjuring her
to let Isabel have it, and though she declared that it was no kindness, and would put the poor
darling into needless perplexity, she was touched with my forbearance, in not having given
it before, when I had such an opportunity.  So she went away, and stayed a weary while: but
when she came, it was worth the waiting.  She said Isabel was old enough to know her own mind,
and the attachment being so strong, and you so unexceptionable, she did not think it possible
to object: she had great delight in seeing you made happy, and fulfilling the dictates of her
own heart, now that it could be done with moderate prudence. They go to Scarborough in a fortnight,
and you will be welcome there. There's for you!'

'Louis, you are the best fellow living!  But you said I was to see her at once.'

'I asked, why wait for Scarborough?' and depicted you hovering disconsolately round the precincts.
Never mind, Jem, I did not make you more ridiculous than human nature must needs paint a lover,
and it was all to melt her heart.  I was starting off to fetch you, when I found she was in
great terror.  She had never told the Mansells of the matter, and they must be prepared.  She
cannot have it transpire while she is in their house, and, in fact, is excessively afraid of
Mr. Mansell, and wants to tell her story by letter.  Now, I think, considering all things,
she has a right to take her own way.'

'You said I was not to go without meeting her!'

'I had assented, and was devising how to march off my lunatic quietly, when the feminine goodnatured
heart that is in her began to relent, and she looked up in my face with a smile, and said the
poor dears were really exemplary, and if Isabel should walk to the beach and should meet any
one there, she need know nothing about it.'

'What says Isabel?'

'She held up her stately head, and thought it would be a better return for Mr. Mansell's kindness
to tell him herself before leaving Beauchastel; but Lady Conway entreated her not to be hasty,
and protested that her fears were of Mr. Mansell's displeasure with her for not having taken
better care of her--she dreaded a break, and so on,--till the end of it was, that though we
agree that prudence would carry us off to-morrow morning, yet her ladyship will look the other
way, if you happen to be on the southern beach at eleven o'clock to-morrow morning.  I suppose
you were very headlong and peremptory in your note, for I could not imagine Isabel consenting
to a secret tryste even so authorized.'

'I never asked for any such thing!  I would not for worlds see her led to do anything underhand.'

'She will honour you!  That's right, Jem!'

'Neither as a clergyman, nor as a Dynevor, can I consent to trick even those who have no claim
to her duty!'

'Neither as a gentleman, nor as a human creature,' added Louis, in the same tone.  'Shall I
go back and give your answer?'

'No; you are walking lame enough already.'

'No matter for that.'

'To tell you the truth, I can't stand your being with her again, while I am made a fool of
by that woman.  If I'm not to see her, I'll be off. I'll send her a note; we will cross to
Bickleypool, and start by the mail-train this very night.'

Louis made no objection, and James hurried him into the little parlour, where in ten minutes
the note was dashed off:--

My Own Most Precious One!--(as, thanks to my most unselfish of cousins, I may dare to call
you,)--I regret my fervency and urgency for an interview, since it led you to think I could
purchase even such happiness by a subterfuge unworthy of my calling, and an ill return of the
hospitality to which we owed our first meeting.  We will meet when I claim you in the face
of day, without the sense of stolen felicity, which is a charm to common-place minds.  My glory
is in the assurance that you understand my letter, approve, and are relieved.  With such sanction,
and with ardour before you like mine, I see that you could do no other than consent, and there
is not a shadow of censure in my mind; but if, without compromising your sense of obedience,
you could openly avow our engagement to Mr. Mansell, I own that I should feel that we were
not drawn into a compromise of sincerity.  What this costs me I will not say; it will be bare
existence till we meet at Scarborough.

                                       'Your own, J. E. F. D.'

Having written this and deposited it in the Ebbscreek post-office, James bethought himself
that his submissive cousin had thrown himself on the floor, with his bag for a pillow, trying
to make the most of the few moments of rest before the midnight journey.  Seized with compunction,
James exclaimed, 'There, old fellow, we will stay to-night.'

'Thank you--' He was too sleepy for more.

The delay was recompensed.  James was trying to persuade Louis to rouse himself to be revived
by bread-and-cheese and beer, and could extort nothing but a drowsy repetition of the rhyme,
in old days the war-cry of the Grammar-school against the present headmaster,--

     'The Welshman had liked to be choked by a mouse,
      But he pulled him out by the tail,'--

when an alarum came in the shape of a little grinning boy from Beauchastel, with a note on
which James had nearly laid hands, as he saw the writing, though the address was to the Viscount
Fitzjocelyn.

'You may have it,' said Louis.  'If anything were wanting, the coincidence proves that you
were cut out for one another.  I rejoice that the moon does not stoop from her sphere.'

'My Dear Cousin,--I trust to you to prevent Mr. F. Dynevor from being hurt or disappointed;
and, indeed, I scarcely think he will, though I should not avail myself of the permission for
meeting him so kindly intended.  I saw at once that you felt as I did, and as I know he will.
He would not like me to have cause to blush before my kind friends--to know that I had acted
a deceit, nor to set an example to my sisters for which they might not understand the justification.
I know that you will obtain my pardon, if needed; and to be assured of it, would be all that
would be required to complete the grateful happiness of

             'Isabel.'

The boy had orders not to wait; and these being seconded by fears of something that 'walked'
in Ebbscreek wood after dark, he was gone before an answer could be thought of.  It mattered
the less, since Isabel must receive James's note early in the morning; and so, in fact, she
did--and she was blushing over it, and feeling as if she could never have borne to meet his
eye but for the part she had fortunately taken, when Louisa tapped at her door, with a message
that Mr. Mansell wished to speak with her, if she were ready.

She went down-stairs still in a glow; and her old friend's first words were a compliment on
her roses, so pointed, that she doubted for a moment whether he did not think them suspicious,
especially as he put his hands behind his back, and paced up and down the room, for some moments.
He then came towards her, and said, in a very kind tone, 'Isabel, my dear, I sent for you first,
because I knew your own mother very well, my dear; and though Lady Conway is very kind, and
has always done you justice,--that I will always say for her,--yet there are times when it
may make a difference to a young woman whether she has her own mother or not.'

Isabel's heart was beating.  She was certain that some discovery had been made, and longed
to explain; but she was wise enough not to speak in haste, and waited to see how the old gentleman
would finally break it to her.  He blundered on a little longer, becoming more confused and
distressed every minute, and at last came to the point abruptly.  'In short, Isabel, my dear,
what can you have done to set people saying that you have been corresponding with the young
men at Ebbscreek?'

'I sent a note to my cousin Fitzjocelyn last night,' said Isabel, with such calmness, that
the old gentleman fairly stood with his mouth open, looking at her aghast.

'Fitzjocelyn!  Then it is Fitzjocelyn, is it?' he exclaimed.  'Then, why could he not set about
it openly and honourably?  Does his father object?  I would not have thought it of you, Isabel,
nor of the lad neither!'

'You need not think it, dear Mr. Mansell.  There is nothing between Lord Fitzjocelyn and myself
but the warmest friendship.'

'Isabel!  Isabel! why are you making mysteries?  I do not wish to pry into your affairs.  I
would have trusted you anywhere; but when it comes round to me that you have been sending a
private messenger to one of the young gentlemen there, I don't know what to be at!  I would
not believe Mrs. Mansell at first; but I saw the boy, and he said you had sent him yourself.
My dear, you may mean, very rightly--I am sure you do, but you must not set people talking!
It is not acting rightly by me, Isabel; but I would not care for that, if it were acting rightly
by yourself.'  And he gazed at her with a piteous, perplexed expression.

'Let me call mamma,' said Isabel.

'As you will, my dear, but cannot you let the simple truth come out between you and your own
blood-relation, without all her words to come between?  Can't you, Isabel?  I am sure you and
I shall understand each other.'

'That we shall,' replied Isabel, warmly.  'I have given her no promise. Dear Mr. Mansell, I
have wished all along that you should know that I am engaged, with her full consent, to Mr.
Frost Dynevor.'

'To the little black tutor!' cried Mr. Mansell, recoiling, but recollecting himself.  'I beg
your pardon, my dear, he may be a very good man, but what becomes of all this scrambling over
barricades with the young Lord?'

Isabel described the true history of her engagement; and it was received with a long, low whistle,
by no means too complimentary.

'And what makes him come and hide in holes and corners, if this is all with your mamma's good
will?'

'Mamma thought you would be displeased; she insisted on taking her own time for breaking it
to you,' said Isabel.

'Was there ever a woman but must have her mystery?  Well, I should have liked him better if
he had not given into it!'

'He never did!' said Isabel, indignant enough to disclose in full the whole arrangement made
by Lady Conway's manoeuvres and lax good-nature. 'I knew it would never do,' she added, 'though
I could not say so before her and Fitzjocelyn.  My note was to tell them so: and look here,
Mr. Mansell, this is what Mr. Dynevor had already written before receiving mine.'

She held it out proudly; and Mr. Mansell, making an unwilling sound between his teeth, took
it from her; but, as he read, his countenance changed, and he exclaimed, 'Ha! very well!  This
is something like! So that's it, is it?  You and he would not combine to cheat the old man,
like a pair of lovers in a trumpery novel!'

'No, indeed!' said Isabel, 'that would be a bad way of beginning.'

'Where is the young fellow?--at Ebbscreek, did you say?  I'll tell you what, Isabel,' with
his hand on the bell, 'I'll have out the dogcart this minute, and fetch him home to breakfast,
to meet my Lady when she comes down stairs, if it be only for the sake of showing that I like
plain dealing!'

'Isabel could only blush, smile, look doubtful, and yet so very happy and grateful, that Mr.
Mansell became cautious, lest his impulse should have carried him too far, and, after having
ordered the vehicle to be prepared, he caught her by the hand, and detained her, saying, 'Mind
you, Miss, you are not to take this for over-much.  I'm afraid it is a silly business, and
I did not want you to throw yourself away on a schoolmaster.  I must see and talk to the man
myself; but I won't have anything that's not open and above-board, and that my Lady shall see
for once in her life!'

'I'm not afraid,' said Isabel, smiling.  'James will make his own way with you.'

Isabel ran away to excuse and explain her confession to Lady Conway; while Mr. Mansell indulged
in another whistle, and then went to inform his wife that he was afraid the girl had been making
a fool of herself; but it was not Lady Conway's fault that she was nothing worse, and he was
resolved, whatever he did, to show that honesty was the only thing that would go down with him.

The boat was rocking on the green waves, and Louis was in the act of waving an adieu to deaf
Mrs. Hannaford, when a huntsman's halloo caused James to look round and behold Mr. Mansell
standing up in his dogcart, making energetic signals with his whip.

He had meant to be very guarded, and wait to judge of James before showing that he approved,
but the excitement of the chase betrayed him into a glow of cordiality, and he shook hands
with vehemence.

