These excuses might be accepted as fully accounting for our failure--or shall we say our delay?--if
it were not for two or three of our literary performances. It is true that no novel has been
written, and we dare say no novel will be written, that is, or will be, an epitome of the manifold
diversities of American life, unless it be in the form of one of Walt Whitman's catalogues.
But we are not without peculiar types; not without characters, not without incidents, stories,
heroisms, inequalities; not without the charms of nature in infinite variety; and human nature
is the same here that it is in Spain, France, and England. Out of these materials Cooper wrote
romances, narratives stamped with the distinct characteristics of American life and scenery,
that were and are eagerly read by all civilized peoples, and which secured the universal verdict
which only breadth of treatment commands. Out of these materials, also, Hawthorne, child-endowed
with a creative imagination, wove those tragedies of interior life, those novels of our provincial
New England, which rank among the great masterpieces of the novelist's art. The master artist
can idealize even our crude material, and make it serve. These exceptions to a rule do not
go to prove the general assertion of a poverty of material for fiction here; the simple truth
probably is that, for reasons incident to the development of a new region of the earth, creative
genius has been turned in other directions than that of fictitious literature. Nor do I think
that we need to take shelter behind the wellworn and convenient observation, the truth of which
stands in much doubt, that literature is the final flower of a nation's civilization.

However, this is somewhat a digression. We are speaking of the tendency of recent fiction,
very much the same everywhere that novels are written, which we have imperfectly sketched.
It is probably of no more use to protest against it than it is to protest against the vulgar
realism in pictorial art, which holds ugliness and beauty in equal esteem; or against aestheticism
gone to seed in languid affectations; or against the enthusiasm of a social life which wreaks
its religion on the color of a vestment, or sighs out its divine soul over an ancient pewter
mug. Most of our fiction, in its extreme analysis, introspection and self-consciousness, in
its devotion to details, in its disregard of the ideal, in its selection as well as in its
treatment of nature, is simply of a piece with a good deal else that passes for genuine art.
Much of it is admirable in workmanship, and exhibits a cleverness in details and a subtlety
in the observation of traits which many great novels lack. But I should be sorry to think that
the historian will judge our social life by it, and I doubt not that most of us are ready for
a more ideal, that is to say, a more artistic, view of our performances in this bright and
pathetic world.