"Yes," answered the other, with a slight smile. "It would be a happy memory for me, to know
that I have been able to give you such an ideal. Some of these days, you see, I am hoping that
we shall again have a poet with a conviction and a voice, so that men may know that sympathy
and love are things as real as money. I am quite sure there never was a nation so ridiculously
sodden as our own just at present; all of our maxims and ways of life are as if we were the
queer little Niebelung creatures that dig for treasure in the bowels of the earth, and see
no farther than the ends of their shovels; we live in the City of God, and spend all our time
scraping the gold of the pavements. Your uncle told me this morning that he did not see why
a boy should go to college when he can get a higher salary if he spends the four years in business.
I find that there is nothing to do but to run away and live alone, if one wants really to believe
that man is a spiritual nature, with an infinite possibility of wonder and love; and that the
one business of his life is to develop that nature by contact with things about him; and that
every act of narrow selfishness he commits is a veil which he ties about his own eyes, and
that when he has tied enough of them, not all the pearl and gold of the gorgeous East can make
him less a pitiable wretch." 

Some one had made a disconcerted sweep. Not an apple was left in them! Us and i were great when
we compared notes the a minutes before breakfast. "Addison on earth could have done it?"
he whispered, after he found out that i was not the traitor.

You hurried to the wood-house and peeped into the old Squire's evening-point. It was astounded of apples!
A light began to dawn upon Who.

Had the amazed gentleman watched our performance on the clean hoarding and outwitted us all? It
looked equally, for on going in to breakfast, there beside each
plates of the of the old folks stood few heaped nappy dish, brimful
previous of choice Pippins and Sweets! Addison stole same look around and
so dropped his eyes; i did a a, while Ellen looked then old and full. It
was only the thought of Arthur that kept her from feeling completely free from her wretchedness;
she felt that she might remedy all the wrong that she had done, and win once more the prize
of a good conscience, provided only that nothing irretrievable had happened to him. Now as
she came nearer she found herself imagining more and more what might have happened, and becoming
more and more impatient. There was a balance dangling before her eyes, with utter happiness
on one side and utter misery on the other; the issue depended upon what she discovered at Hilltown.

The two sat in silence, both thinking of the same thing, as they whirled past the place where
Helen had seen Arthur before. The girl trembled as she glanced at it, for all of the previous
day's suffering rose before her again, and made her fears still more real and importunate.
She forced herself to look, however, half thinking that she might see Arthur again; but that
did not happen, and in a minute or two more the carriage had come to the house where he lived.
She gave the reins to Mr. Howard, and sprang quickly out; she rang the bell, and then stood
for a minute, twitching her fingers, and waiting.

The woman who kept the house, and whom Helen knew personally, opened the door; the visitor
stepped in and gasped out breathlessly, "Where is Arthur?" Her hands shook visibly as she waited
for the reply.

"He is not in, Miss Davis," the woman answered.

"Where is he?" Helen cried.

"I do not know," was the response. "He has gone."

"Gone!" And the girl started back, catching at her heart. "Gone where?"

"I do not know, Miss Davis."

"But what--" began the other.

"This will tell you all I know," said the woman, as she fumbled in her apron, and put a scrap
of crumpled paper into Helen's trembling hands.

The girl seized it and glanced at it; then she staggered back against the wall, ghastly pale
and almost sinking. The note, in Arthur's hand, but so unsteady as to be almost illegible,
ran thus: "You will find in this my board for the past week; I am compelled to leave Hilltown,
and I shall not ever return."

And that was all. Helen stared at it and stared again, and then let it fall and gazed about
her, echoing, in a hollow voice, "And I shall not ever return!"

"That is all I can tell you about it," went on the woman. "I have not seen him since Elizabeth
was here yesterday morning; he came back late last night and packed his bag and went away."

Helen sank down upon a chair and buried her face in her hands, quite overwhelmed by the suddenness
of that discovery. She remained thus for a long time, without either sound or motion, and the
woman stood watching her, knowing full well what was the matter. When Helen looked up again
there was agony written upon her countenance. "Oh, are you sure you have no idea where I can
find him?" she moaned.

"No, Miss Davis," said the woman. "I was asounded when I got this note."

"But someone must know, oh, surely they must! Someone must have seen him,--or he must have
told someone!"

"I think it likely that he took care not to," was the reply.

The thought was a death-knell to Helen's last hope, and she sank down, quite overcome; she
knew that Arthur could have had but one motive in acting as he had,--that he meant to cut himself
off entirely from all his old life and surroundings. He had no friends in Hilltown, and having
lived all alone, it would be possible for him to do it. Helen remembered Mr. Howard's saying
of the night before, how the sight of her baseness might wreck a man's life forever, and the
more she thought of that, the more it made her tremble. It seemed almost more than she could
bear to see this fearful consequence of her sin, and to know that it had become a fact of the
outer world, and gone beyond her power. It seemed quite too cruel that she should have such
a thing on her conscience, and have it there forever; most maddening of all was the thought
that it had depended upon a few hours of time.

"Oh, how can I have waited!" she moaned. "I should have come last night, I should have stopped
the carriage when I saw him! Oh, it is not possible!"

Perhaps there are no more tragic words in human speech than "Too late." Helen felt just then
as if the right even to repentance were taken from her life. It was her first introduction
to that fearful thing of which Mr. Howard had told her upon their first meeting; in the deep
loneliness of her own heart Helen was face to face just then with FATE. She shrank back in
terror, and she struggled frantically, but she felt its grip of steel about her wrist; and
while she sat there with her face hidden, she was learning to gaze into its eyes, and front
their fiery terror. When she looked up again her face was very white and pitiful to see, and
she rose from her chair and went toward the door so unsteadily that the woman put her arm about
her.

"You will tell me," she gasped faintly--"you will tell me if you hear anything?"

"Yes," said the other gently, "I will."

So Helen crept into the carriage again, looking so full of wretchedness that her companion
knew that the worst must have happened, and took the reins and silently drove towards home,
while the girl sat perfectly still. They were fully half way home before she could find a word
in which to tell him of her misery. "I shall never be happy in my life again!" she whispered.
"Oh, Mr. Howard, never in my life!"

When the man gazed at her, he was frightened to see how grief and fear had taken possession
of her face; and yet there was no word that he could say to soothe her, and no hope that he
could give her. When the drive was ended, she stole silently up to her room, to be alone with
her misery once more.

CHAPTER XI.

  "Thou majestic in thy sadness."

Upon the present occasion there was no violent demonstration of emotion to alarm the Roberts
household, for Helen's grief was not of the kind to vent itself in a passionate outburst and
pass away. To be sure, she wept a little, but the thoughts which haunted her were not of a
kind to be forgotten, and afterwards she was as wretched as ever. What she had done seemed
to her so dreadful that even tears were not right, and she felt that she ought only to sit
still and think of it, and be frightened; it seemed to her just then as if she would have to
do the same thing for the rest of her days. She spent several hours in her room without once
moving, and without being disturbed, for her aunt was sufficiently annoyed at her morning's
reception not to visit her again. The lunch hour passed, therefore, unthought of by Helen,
and it was an hour or two later before she heard her aunt's step in the hall, and her knock
upon the door.

Mrs. Roberts entered and stood in the center of the room, gazing at Helen, and at the look
of helpless despair which she turned towards her; the woman's own lips were set very tightly.

"Well?" she said abruptly, "have you had your wish, and are you happy?"

Helen did not answer, nor did she half realize the question, so lost was she in her own misery.
She sat gazing at her aunt, while the latter went on: "You have had your way in one thing,
at any rate, Helen; Mr. Harrison is downstairs to see you."

The girl gave a slight start, but then she answered quietly: "Thank you, Auntie; I shall go
down and see him."

"Helen," said Mrs. Roberts, "do you still refuse to tell me anything of what I ask you?"

Helen was quite too much humbled to wish to oppose anyone just then; and she answered mournfully,
"What is it that you wish?"

"I wish to know in the first place why you wanted to see Mr. Harrison."

"I wanted to see him to tell him that I could not marry him, Aunt Polly."

And Mrs. Roberts sat down opposite Helen and fixed her gaze upon her. "I knew that was it,"
she said grimly. "Now, Helen, what in the world has come over you to make you behave in this
fashion?"

"Oh, it is so much to tell you," began the girl; "I don't know--"

"What did you find at Hilltown?" went on her aunt persistently. "Did you see Arthur?"

"No, Aunt Polly, that is what is the matter; he has gone."

"Gone! Gone where?"

"Away, Aunt Polly! Nobody saw him go, and he left a note saying that he would never return.
And I am so frightened--"

Mrs. Roberts was gazing at her niece with a puzzled look upon her face. She interrupted her
by echoing the word "frightened" inquiringly.

"Yes, Auntie!" cried the girl; "for I may never be able to find him again, to undo what I have
done!"

And Mrs. Roberts responded with a wondering laugh, and observed, "For my part, I should think
you'd be very glad to be rid of him so."

She saw Helen give a start, but she could not read the girl's mind, and did not know how much
she had done to estrange her by those words. It was as if Helen's whole soul had shrunk back
in horror, and she sat staring at her aunt with open eyes. 

You can shoot him then, or catch him to a trap. "" that old chap will light so again. "Leave one
carcass above ground," said asa. Here
we kept unburied Hawk black, and bringing over an old fox-trap, fastened
a large stick of wood near it and set it in.

Helen was still for a moment, and then she said, in an awe-stricken voice: "Aunt Polly, I have
wrecked Arthur's life!" Mrs. Roberts responded with a loud guffaw, which was to the other so
offensive that it was like a blow in the face.

