There, between its leaflike folds, I saw a loose pearl as big as a coconut.  Its globular shape,
perfect clarity, and wonderful orient made it a jewel of incalculable value.  Carried away
by curiosity, I stretched out my hand to take it, weigh it, fondle it! But the captain stopped
me, signaled no, removed his dagger in one swift motion, and let the two valves snap shut.

I then understood Captain Nemo's intent.  By leaving the pearl buried beneath the giant clam's
mantle, he allowed it to grow imperceptibly. With each passing year the mollusk's secretions
added new concentric layers.  The captain alone was familiar with the cave where this wonderful
fruit of nature was "ripening"; he alone reared it, so to speak, in order to transfer it one
day to his dearly beloved museum.  Perhaps, following the examples of oyster farmers in China
and India, he had even predetermined the creation of this pearl by sticking under the mollusk's
folds some piece of glass or metal that was gradually covered with mother-of-pearl. In any
case, comparing this pearl to others I already knew about, and to those shimmering in the captain's
collection, I estimated that it was worth at least 10,000,000 francs.  It was a superb natural
curiosity rather than a luxurious piece of jewelry, because I don't know of any female ear
that could handle it.

Our visit to this opulent giant clam came to an end. Captain Nemo left the cave, and we climbed
back up the bank of shellfish in the midst of these clear waters not yet disturbed by divers
at work.

We walked by ourselves, genuine loiterers stopping or straying as our fancies dictated.  For
my part, I was no longer worried about those dangers my imagination had so ridiculously exaggerated.
The shallows drew noticeably closer to the surface of the sea, and soon, walking in only a
meter of water, my head passed well above the level of the ocean.  Conseil rejoined me, and
gluing his huge copper capsule to mine, his eyes gave me a friendly greeting. But this lofty
plateau measured only a few fathoms, and soon we reentered Our Element.  I think I've now earned
the right to dub it that.

Ten minutes later, Captain Nemo stopped suddenly.  I thought he'd called a halt so that we
could turn and start back.  No. With a gesture he ordered us to crouch beside him at the foot
of a wide crevice. His hand motioned toward a spot within the liquid mass, and I looked carefully.

Five meters away a shadow appeared and dropped to the seafloor. The alarming idea of sharks
crossed my mind.  But I was mistaken, and once again we didn't have to deal with monsters of
the deep.

It was a man, a living man, a black Indian fisherman, a poor devil who no doubt had come to
gather what he could before harvest time. I saw the bottom of his dinghy, moored a few feet
above his head. He would dive and go back up in quick succession.  A stone cut in the shape
of a sugar loaf, which he gripped between his feet while a rope connected it to his boat, served
to lower him more quickly to the ocean floor.  This was the extent of his equipment. Arriving
on the seafloor at a depth of about five meters, he fell to his knees and stuffed his sack
with shellfish gathered at random. Then he went back up, emptied his sack, pulled up his stone,
and started all over again, the whole process lasting only thirty seconds.

This diver didn't see us.  A shadow cast by our crag hid us from his view.  And besides, how
could this poor Indian ever have guessed that human beings, creatures like himself, were near
him under the waters, eavesdropping on his movements, not missing a single detail of his fishing!

So he went up and down several times.  He gathered only about ten shellfish per dive, because
he had to tear them from the banks where each clung with its tough mass of filaments. And how
many of these oysters for which he risked his life would have no pearl in them!

I observed him with great care.  His movements were systematically executed, and for half an
hour no danger seemed to threaten him. So I had gotten used to the sight of this fascinating
fishing when all at once, just as the Indian was kneeling on the seafloor, I saw him make a
frightened gesture, stand, and gather himself to spring back to the surface of the waves.

I understood his fear.  A gigantic shadow appeared above the poor diver. It was a shark of
huge size, moving in diagonally, eyes ablaze, jaws wide open!

I was speechless with horror, unable to make a single movement.

With one vigorous stroke of its fins, the voracious animal shot toward the Indian, who jumped
aside and avoided the shark's bite but not the thrashing of its tail, because that tail struck
him across the chest and stretched him out on the seafloor.

This scene lasted barely a few seconds.  The shark returned, rolled over on its back, and was
getting ready to cut the Indian in half, when Captain Nemo, who was stationed beside me, suddenly
stood up. Then he strode right toward the monster, dagger in hand, ready to fight it at close
quarters.

Just as it was about to snap up the poor fisherman, the man-eater saw its new adversary, repositioned
itself on its belly, and headed swiftly toward him.

I can see Captain Nemo's bearing to this day.  Bracing himself, he waited for the fearsome
man-eater with wonderful composure, and when the latter rushed at him, the captain leaped aside
with prodigious quickness, avoided a collision, and sank his dagger into its belly.  But that
wasn't the end of the story. A dreadful battle was joined.

The shark bellowed, so to speak.  Blood was pouring into the waves from its wounds.  The sea
was dyed red, and through this opaque liquid I could see nothing else.

Nothing else until the moment when, through a rift in the clouds, I saw the daring captain
clinging to one of the animal's fins, fighting the monster at close quarters, belaboring his
enemy's belly with stabs of the dagger yet unable to deliver the deciding thrust, in other
words, a direct hit to the heart. In its struggles the man-eater churned the watery mass so
furiously, its eddies threatened to knock me over.

I wanted to run to the captain's rescue.  But I was transfixed with horror, unable to move.

I stared, wild-eyed. I saw the fight enter a new phase. The captain fell to the seafloor, toppled
by the enormous mass weighing him down.  Then the shark's jaws opened astoundingly wide, like
a pair of industrial shears, and that would have been the finish of Captain Nemo had not Ned
Land, quick as thought, rushed forward with his harpoon and driven its dreadful point into
the shark's underside.

The waves were saturated with masses of blood.  The waters shook with the movements of the
man-eater, which thrashed about with indescribable fury.  Ned Land hadn't missed his target.
This was the monster's death rattle.  Pierced to the heart, it was struggling with dreadful
spasms whose aftershocks knocked Conseil off his feet.

Meanwhile Ned Land pulled the captain clear.  Uninjured, the latter stood up, went right to
the Indian, quickly cut the rope binding the man to his stone, took the fellow in his arms,
and with a vigorous kick of the heel, rose to the surface of the sea.

The three of us followed him, and a few moments later, miraculously safe, we reached the fisherman's
longboat.

Captain Nemo's first concern was to revive this unfortunate man. I wasn't sure he would succeed.
I hoped so, since the poor devil hadn't been under very long.  But that stroke from the shark's
tail could have been his deathblow.

Fortunately, after vigorous massaging by Conseil and the captain, I saw the nearly drowned
man regain consciousness little by little. He opened his eyes.  How startled he must have felt,
how frightened even, at seeing four huge, copper craniums leaning over him!

And above all, what must he have thought when Captain Nemo pulled a bag of pearls from a pocket
in his diving suit and placed it in the fisherman's hands?  This magnificent benefaction from
the Man of the Waters to the poor Indian from Ceylon was accepted by the latter with trembling
hands.  His bewildered eyes indicated that he didn't know to what superhuman creatures he owed
both his life and his fortune.

At the captain's signal we returned to the bank of shellfish, and retracing our steps, we walked
for half an hour until we encountered the anchor connecting the seafloor with the Nautilus's skiff.

Back on board, the sailors helped divest us of our heavy copper carapaces.

Captain Nemo's first words were spoken to the Canadian.

"Thank you, Mr. Land," he told him.

"Tit for tat, captain," Ned Land replied.  "I owed it to you."

The ghost of a smile glided across the captain's lips, and that was all.

"To the Nautilus," he said.

The longboat flew over the waves.  A few minutes later we encountered the shark's corpse again,
floating.

From the black markings on the tips of its fins, I recognized the dreadful Squalus melanopterus
from the seas of the East Indies, a variety in the species of sharks proper.

Conseil looked at it with purely scientific fascination, and I'm sure he placed it, not without
good reason, in the class of cartilaginous fish, order Chondropterygia with fixed gills, family
Selacia, genus Squalus.

While I was contemplating this inert mass, suddenly a dozen of these voracious melanoptera
appeared around our longboat; but, paying no attention to us, they pounced on the corpse and
quarreled over every scrap of it.

By 8:30 we were back on board the Nautilus.

There I fell to thinking about the incidents that marked our excursion over the Mannar oysterbank.
Two impressions inevitably stood out. One concerned Captain Nemo's matchless bravery, the other
his devotion to a human being, a representative of that race from which he had fled beneath
the seas.  In spite of everything, this strange man hadn't yet succeeded in completely stifling
his heart.

When I shared these impressions with him, he answered me in a tone touched with emotion:

"That Indian, professor, lives in the land of the oppressed, and I am to this day, and will
be until my last breath, a native of that same land!"

CHAPTER 4

The Red Sea

DURING THE DAY of January 29, the island of Ceylon disappeared below the horizon, and at a
speed of twenty miles per hour, the Nautilus glided into the labyrinthine channels that separate
the Maldive and Laccadive Islands.  It likewise hugged Kiltan Island, a shore of madreporic
origin discovered by Vasco da Gama in 1499 and one of nineteen chief islands in the island
group of the Laccadives, located between latitude 10 degrees and 14 degrees 30' north, and
between longitude 50 degrees 72' and 69 degrees east.

By then we had fared 16,220 miles, or 7,500 leagues, from our starting point in the seas of Japan.

The next day, January 30, when the Nautilus rose to the surface of the ocean, there was no
more land in sight.  Setting its course to the north-northwest, the ship headed toward the
Gulf of Oman, carved out between Arabia and the Indian peninsula and providing access to the
Persian Gulf.

This was obviously a blind alley with no possible outlet. So where was Captain Nemo taking
us?  I was unable to say. Which didn't satisfy the Canadian, who that day asked me where we
were going.

"We're going, Mr. Ned, where the captain's fancy takes us."

"His fancy," the Canadian replied, "won't take us very far. The Persian Gulf has no outlet,
and if we enter those waters, it won't be long before we return in our tracks."

"All right, we'll return, Mr. Land, and after the Persian Gulf, if the Nautilus wants to visit
the Red Sea, the Strait of Bab el Mandeb is still there to let us in!"

"I don't have to tell you, sir," Ned Land replied, "that the Red Sea is just as landlocked
as the gulf, since the Isthmus of Suez hasn't been cut all the way through yet; and even if
it was, a boat as secretive as ours wouldn't risk a canal intersected with locks. So the Red
Sea won't be our way back to Europe either."

"But I didn't say we'd return to Europe."

"What do you figure, then?"

"I figure that after visiting these unusual waterways of Arabia and Egypt, the Nautilus will
go back down to the Indian Ocean, perhaps through Mozambique Channel, perhaps off the Mascarene
Islands, and then make for the Cape of Good Hope."

"And once we're at the Cape of Good Hope?" the Canadian asked with typical persistence.

"Well then, we'll enter that Atlantic Ocean with which we aren't yet familiar.  What's wrong,
Ned my friend? Are you tired of this voyage under the seas?  Are you bored with the constantly
changing sight of these underwater wonders? Speaking for myself, I'll be extremely distressed
to see the end of a voyage so few men will ever have a chance to make."

"But don't you realize, Professor Aronnax," the Canadian replied, "that soon we'll have been
imprisoned for three whole months aboard this Nautilus?"

"No, Ned, I didn't realize it, I don't want to realize it, and I don't keep track of every
day and every hour."

"But when will it be over?"

"In its appointed time.  Meanwhile there's nothing we can do about it, and our discussions
are futile.  My gallant Ned, if you come and tell me, 'A chance to escape is available to us,'
then I'll discuss it with you. But that isn't the case, and in all honesty, I don't think Captain
Nemo ever ventures into European seas."

This short dialogue reveals that in my mania for the Nautilus, I was turning into the spitting
image of its commander.

As for Ned Land, he ended our talk in his best speechifying style: "That's all fine and dandy.
But in my humble opinion, a life in jail is a life without joy."

For four days until February 3, the Nautilus inspected the Gulf of Oman at various speeds and
depths.  It seemed to be traveling at random, as if hesitating over which course to follow,
but it never crossed the Tropic of Cancer.

After leaving this gulf we raised Muscat for an instant, the most important town in the country
of Oman.  I marveled at its strange appearance in the midst of the black rocks surrounding
it, against which the white of its houses and forts stood out sharply. I spotted the rounded
domes of its mosques, the elegant tips of its minarets, and its fresh, leafy terraces.  But
it was only a fleeting vision, and the Nautilus soon sank beneath the dark waves of these waterways.

Then our ship went along at a distance of six miles from the Arabic coasts of Mahra and Hadhramaut,
their undulating lines of mountains relieved by a few ancient ruins.  On February 5 we finally
put into the Gulf of Aden, a genuine funnel stuck into the neck of Bab el Mandeb and bottling
these Indian waters in the Red Sea.

On February 6 the Nautilus cruised in sight of the city of Aden, perched on a promontory connected
to the continent by a narrow isthmus, a sort of inaccessible Gibraltar whose fortifications
the English rebuilt after capturing it in 1839.  I glimpsed the octagonal minarets of this
town, which used to be one of the wealthiest, busiest commercial centers along this coast,
as the Arab historian Idrisi tells it.

I was convinced that when Captain Nemo reached this point, he would back out again; but I was
mistaken, and much to my surprise, he did nothing of the sort.

