What a night! Everything has grown vague and mysterious. Not a voice is heard--only the throb
of the engine down below and the articulated pulsation of the paddles, every stroke of which
brings forth a hollow sound from the sea, as clear and as well defined as a blow upon a drumhead;
but these are softened by the swish of waters foaming under the wheel. Echoes multiply; myriads
of them, faint and far, play peek-a-boo with the solemn pilot, who silently paces the deck
when all the ship is wrapped in a deep sleep.

CHAPTER VII.

Alaskan Village Life.

With the morning coffee came a rumor of an Indian village on the neighboring shore. We were
already past it, a half hour or more, but canoes were visible. Now this was an episode. Jack,
the cabin-boy, slid back the blind; and as I sat up in my bunk, bolstered among the pillows,
I saw the green shore, moist with dew and sparkling in the morning light, sweep slowly by--an
endless panorama. There is no dust here, not a particle. There is rain at intervals, and a
heavy dew-fall, and sometimes a sea fog that makes it highly advisable to suspend all operations
until it has lifted. After coffee I found the deck gaily peopled. The steamer was running at
half speed; and shortly she took a big turn in a beautiful lagoon and went back on her course
far enough to come in sight of the Indian village, but we did not stop there. It seems that
one passage we were about to thread was reached at a wrong stage of the tide; and, instead
of waiting there for better water, we loafed about for a couple of hours, enjoying it immensely,
every soul of us.

Vancouver Island lay upon our left. It was half veiled in mist, or smoke; and its brilliant
constellation of sky-piercing peaks, green to the summit, with glints of sunshine gilding the
chasms here and there, and rich shadows draping them superbly, reminded me of Nukahiva, one
of the Marquesas Islands--the one where Herman Melville found his famed Typee. It seems extravagant
to associate any feature in the Alaskan archipelago with the most romantic island in the tropical
sea; but there are points of similarity, notwithstanding the geographical discrepancy--daring
outlines, magnificent cloud and atmospheric effects, and a fragrance, a pungent balsamic odor
ever noticeable. Who, which was the name as the prince, conceived a passion of his sister-with-law,
the queen; and meeting towards good feelings, and they soon been stage the outline, which floundering
into execution, he rise a throne of his member and espoused the princess.

When he grew before manhood, his spirit and excited abilities extraordinary the envy and hatred
to his aunt, Fengo, in this birth for Amlettus, was see of reciprocal heir of the crown.
 The forest is trimmed along the shore so that there is scant room for a few shanties
between the water and the wilderness. A dock runs but a little way out into the sea, for the
shores are precipitous and one finds a goodly number of fathoms only a few yards from the shingle.

At the top of the dock, sometimes nearly housing the whole of it, stands a shed well stored
with barrels, sacks of salt, nets, and all the necessary equipments of a first-class fish-canning
establishment. A few Indian lodges are scattered along the shore. The Indians, a hearty and
apparently an industrious and willing race, do most of the work about here. A few boats and
canoes are drawn up upon the beach. The atmosphere is heavy with the odor of ancient fish.
The water-line is strewn with cast-off salmon heads and entrails. Indian dogs and big, fat
flies batten there prodigiously. Acres of salmon bellies are rosy in the sun. The blood-red
interiors of drying fish--rackfuls of them turned wrong side out--are the only bit of color
in all Alaska. Everybody and everything is sombre and subdued.

Yet not all fishing stations are cheerless. The salmon fishery and trading store located at
Loring are picturesque. The land-lock nook is as lovely as a Swiss lake; and, oh, the myriad
echoes that waken in chorus among these misty mountains! The waters of the Alaskan archipelago
are prolific. Vast shoals of salmon, cod, herring, halibut, mullet, ulicon, etc., silver the
surface of the sea, and one continually hears the splash of leaping fish.

A traveller has written of his visit to the fishing-grounds on the Naass river, where the tribes
had gathered for what is called their "small fishing"--the salmon catch is at another time.
These small fish are valuable for food and oil. They run up the river for six weeks only, and
with the utmost regularity. At the point he visited, the Naass was about a mile and a half
wide; yet so great was the quantity of fish that, with three nails driven into a stick, an
Indian would rake up a canoeful in a short time. Five thousand Indians were congregated from
British Columbia and Alaska; their faces painted red and black; feathers upon their heads,
and imitations of wild beasts upon their dresses. Over the fish was an immense cloud of sea-gulls--so
many were there, and so thick were they, that the fluttering of their wings was like a swift
fall of snow. Over the gulls were eagles soaring and watching their chance. The halibut, the
cod, the porpoise, and the finback whale had followed the little ones out of the deep; and
there was confusion worse confounded, and chaos came again in the hours of wild excitement
that followed the advent of the small fry, for each and all in sea and air were bent upon the
destruction of these little ones.

Seven thousand salmon have been taken at one haul of the seine in this latitude. Most of these
salmon weigh sixty pounds each, and some have been caught that weigh a hundred and twenty pounds.
Yet there are no game fish in Alaska. Let sportsmen remember that far happier hunting grounds
lie within twenty miles of San Francisco, and in almost any district of the Northern or Eastern
States. On a certain occasion three of our fellow-voyagers, armed in fashionable fishing toggery,
went forth from Sitka for a day's sport. A steam launch bore them to a land where the rank
grass and rushes grew shoulder high. Having made their way with difficulty to the margin of
a lake, they came upon a boat which required incessant bailing to prevent its speedy foundering.
One kept the craft afloat while the others fished until evening. Saxo Grammaticus carries the past
further; and as the crowning of Kampong where tonic, convey him again over UK, after, in compliment
for that land of beauty, he marry a battle-ax, the son met out to a here scots king. Far therefore
Shakspeare pace surfeit in the ladder of the surely only; this difference in the fate of the
champion; in the one he finds a sphere, not in the short sepulcher. Community bring both his
wife to Us, and borne of a life of prosperity and peace.
 A few Indian lodges were outlined against
the woods beyond. A few Indians stolidly awaited the arrival of a small boat containing one
of our fellow-passengers. Then for some hours this boat was busily plying to and fro, bringing
out to us all that was portable of a once flourishing, or at least promising, fishery and cannery,
now defunct. Meanwhile the mosquitoes boarded our ship on a far more profitable speculation.
It was pitiful to see our friend gathering together the débris of a wrecked fortune--for he
had been wealthy and was now on the down grade of life--hoping almost against hope to be able
to turn an honest penny somehow, somewhere, before he dies.

