THE DIVINE FIRE

by

MAY SINCLAIR

Author of Mr. and Mrs. Nevill Tyson, Two Sides of a Question, etc. etc.

1904

Mr. OWEN SEAMAN in Punch says:--

     "Miss Sinclair is always quietly sure of herself. That is why she
     will not be hurried, but moves through her gradual scheme with so
     leisured a serenity; why her style, fluent and facile, never
     forces its natural eloquence; why her humour plays with a
     diffused light over all her work and seldom needs the
     advertisement of scintillating epigrams. Judged by almost every
     standard to which a comedy like this should be referred, I find
     her book, 'The Divine Fire' the most remarkable that I have read
     for many years."

BY THE SAME AUTHOR TWO SIDES OF A QUESTION

CONTENTS

BOOK I DISJECTA MEMBRA POETAE

BOOK II LUCIA'S WAY

BOOK III THE HOUSE OF BONDAGE

BOOK IV THE MAN HIMSELF

BOOK I

DISJECTA MEMBRA POETAE

CHAPTER I

Horace Jewdwine had made the most remarkable of his many remarkable discoveries. At least he
thought he had. He could not be quite sure, which was his excuse for referring it to his cousin
Lucia, whose instinct (he would not call it judgement) in these matters was infallible--strangely
infallible for so young a girl. What, he wondered, would she say to Savage Keith Rickman?

On Saturday, when he first came down into Devonshire, he would have been glad to know. But
to-day, which was a Tuesday, he was not interested in Rickman. To eat strawberries all morning;
to lie out in the hammock all afternoon, under the beach-tree on the lawn of Court House; to
let the peace of the old green garden sink into him; to look at Lucia and forget, utterly forget,
about his work (the making of discoveries), that was what he wanted. But Lucia wanted to talk,
and to talk about Rickman earnestly as if he were a burning question, when even lying in the
hammock Jewdwine was so hot that it bothered him to talk at all.

He was beginning to be sorry that he had introduced him--the exciting topic, that is to say,
not the man; for Rickman you could scarcely introduce, not at any rate to Lucia Harden.

"Well, Lucia?" He pronounced her name in the Italian manner, "Loo-chee-a," with a languid stress
on the vowels, and his tone conveyed a certain weary but polite forbearance.

Lucia herself, he noticed, had an ardent look, as if a particularly interesting idea had just
occurred to her. He wished it hadn't. An idea of Lucia's would commit him to an opinion of
his own; and at the moment Jewdwine was not prepared to abandon himself to anything so definite
and irretrievable. He had not yet made up his mind about Rickman, and did not want to make
it up now. Certainty was impossible owing to his somewhat embarrassing acquaintance with the
man. That, again, was where Lucia had come in. Her vision of him would be free and undisturbed
by any suggestion of his bodily presence.

Meanwhile, Rickman's poem, or rather the first two Acts of his neo-classic drama, Helen in
Leuce, lay on Lucia's lap. Jewdwine had obtained it under protest and with much secrecy. He
had promised Rickman, solemnly, not to show it to a soul; but he had shown it to Lucia. It
was all right, he said, so long as he refrained from disclosing the name of the person who
had written it. Not that she would have been any the wiser if he had.

"And it was you who discovered him?" Her voice lingered with a peculiarly tender and agreeable
vibration on the "you." He closed his eyes and let that, too, sink into him.

"Yes," he murmured, "nobody else has had a hand in it--as yet."

"And what are you going to do with him now you have discovered him?"

He opened his eyes, startled by the uncomfortable suggestion. It had not yet occurred to him
that the discovery of Rickman could entail any responsibility whatever.

"I don't know that I'm going to do anything with him. Unless some day I use him for an article."

"Oh, Horace, is that the way you treat your friends?"

He smiled. "Yes Lucy, sometimes, when they deserve it."

"You haven't told me your friend's name?"

"No. I betrayed his innocent confidence sufficiently in showing you his play. I can't tell
you his name."

"After all, his name doesn't matter."

"No, it doesn't matter. Very likely you'll hear enough of it some day. You haven't told me
what you think of him."

"I don't know what I think--But then, I don't know him."

"No," he said, roused to interest by her hesitation, "you don't know him. That's the beauty of it."

She gave the manuscript back into his hands. "Take him away. He makes me feel uncomfortable."

"To tell the truth, Lucy, he makes me feel uncomfortable, too."

"Why?"

"Well, when you think you've got hold of a genius, and you take him up and stake your reputation
on him--and all the time you can't be sure whether it's a spark of the divine fire or a mere
flash in the pan. It happens over and over again. The burnt critic dreads the divine fire."

His eyes were fixed on the title page as if fascinated by the words, Helen in Leuce.

"But this is not bad--it's not bad for two and twenty."

"Only two and twenty?"

"That's all. It looks as if he were made for immortality."

She turned to him that ardent gaze which made the hot day hotter.

"Dear Horace, you're going to do great things for him."

The worst of having a cousin who adores you is that magnificence is expected of you, regularly
and as a matter of course. He was not even sure that Lucia did not credit him with power to
work miracles. The idea was flattering but also somewhat inconvenient.

"I don't know about great things. I should like to do something. The question is what. He's
a little unfortunate in--in his surroundings, and he's been ill, poor fellow. If one could
give him a change. If one were only rich and could afford to send him abroad for a year. I
had thought of asking him down to Oxford."

"And why didn't you?"

"Well, you know, one gets rather crowded up with things in term time."

Lucia looked thoughtfully at the refined, luxurious figure in the hammock. Horace was entitled
to the hammock, for he had been ill. He was entitled also to the ministrations of his cousin
Lucia. Lucia spent her time in planning and doing kind things, and, from the sudden luminous
sweetness of her face, he gathered that something of the sort was in preparation now.

It was. "Horace," she said, "would you like to ask him here?"

"No, Lucy, I wouldn't. I don't think it would do."

"But why not--if he's your friend?"

"If he's my friend."

"You said he was your friend. You did, you know." (Another awkward consequence of a cousin's
adoration; she is apt to remember and attach importance to your most trivial utterances.)

"Pardon me, I said he was my find."

"Where did you find him?"

"I found him in the City--in a shop."

She smiled at the rhythmic utterance. The tragedy of the revelation was such that it could
be expressed only in blank verse.

"The shop doesn't matter."

"No, but he does. You couldn't stand him, Lucia. You see, for one thing, he sometimes drops
his aitches."

"Well, if he does,--he'll be out all day, and there's the open country to drop them in. I really
don't mind, if you'd like to ask him. Do you think he'd like to be asked?"

"There's no possible doubt about that."

"Then ask him. Ask him now. You can't do it when father's not at home."

Jewdwine repressed a smile. Even now, from the windows of the east wing, there burst, suddenly,
the sound of fiddling, a masterly fiddling inspired by infernal passion, controlled by divine
technique. It was his uncle, Sir Frederick, and he wished him at the devil. If all accounts
were true, Sir Frederick, when not actually fiddling, was going there with a celerity that
left nothing to be desired; he was, if you came to think of it, a rather amazing sort of chaperone.

And yet, but for that fleeting and tumultuous presence, Horace himself would not be staying
at Court House. Really, he reflected. Lucia ought to get some lady to live with her. It was
the correct thing, and therefore it was not a little surprising that Lucia did not do it. An
expression of disapproval passed over his pale, fastidious face.

"Father won't mind," she said.

"No, but I should." He said it in a tone which was meant to settle the question.

She sat still, turning over the pages of the manuscript which she had again taken on her lap.

"I suppose he is very dreadful. Still, I think we ought to do something for him."

"And what would you propose to do?"

There was an irritating smile on her cousin's face. He was thinking, "So she wants to patronize
him, does she?"

He did not say what he thought; with Lucia that was unnecessary, for she always knew. He only
said, "I don't exactly see you playing Beatrice to his Dante."

Lucia coloured, and Horace felt that he had been right. The Hardens had always been patronizing;
his mother and sister were the most superbly patronizing women he knew. And Rickman might or
might not be a great man, but Lucia, even at three and twenty, was a great lady in her way.
Why shouldn't she patronize him, if she liked? And he smiled again more irritatingly than ever.
Nobody could be more irritating than this Oxford don when he gave his mind to it.

"Lucy--if you only knew him, I don't think you'd suggest my bringing him down here."

He was smiling still, while his imagination dallied with the monstrous vision.

"I wouldn't have suggested it," she said coldly, "if I hadn't thought you'd like it."

Horace felt a little ashamed of himself. He knew he had only to think about Lucia in her presence
to change the colour on her cheeks, and his last thought had left a stain there like the mark
of a blow. Never had he known any woman so sensitive as his cousin Lucia.

"So I should like it, dear, if it were possible, or rather if he were not impossible. His manners
have not that repose which distinguishes his Helen. Really, for two and twenty, he is marvellously
restrained."

"Restrained? Do you think so?"

"Certainly," he said, his thought gaining precision in opposition to her vagueness, "his Helen
is pure Vere de Vere. You might read me some of it."

She read, and in the golden afternoon her voice built up the cold, polished marble of the verse.
She had not been able to tell him what she thought of Rickman; but her voice, in its profound
vibrations, made apparent that which she, and she only, had discerned in him, the troubled
pulse of youth, the passion of the imprisoned and tumultuous soul, the soul which Horace had
assured her inhabited the body of an aitchless shopman. Lucia might not have the intuition
of genius, but she had the genius of intuition; she had seen what the great Oxford critic had
not been able to see.

The sound of the fiddling ceased as suddenly as it had begun; and over the grey house and the
green garden was the peace of heaven and of the enfolding hills.

Jewdwine breathed a sigh of contentment at the close of the great chorus in the second Act.
After all, Rickman was the best antidote to Rickman.

But Lucia was looking ardent again, as if she were about to speak.

"Don't, Lucy," he murmured.

"Don't what?"

"Don't talk any more about him now. It's too hot. Wait till the cool of the evening."

"I thought you wanted me to play to you then."

Jewdwine looked at her; he noted the purity of her face, the beautiful pose of her body, stretched
in the deck-chair, her fine white hands and arms that hung there, slender, inert and frail.
He admired these things so much that he failed to see that they expressed not only beauty but
a certain delicacy of physique, and that her languor which appealed to him was the languor
of fatigue.

"You might play to me, now," he said.

She looked at him again, a lingering, meditative look, a look in which, if adoration was quiescent,
there was no criticism and no reproach, only a melancholy wonder. And he, too, wondered; wondered
what she was thinking of.

She was thinking a dreadful thought. "Is Horace selfish? Is Horace selfish?" a little voice
kept calling at the back of her brain and would not be quiet. At last she answered it to her
own satisfaction. "No, he is not selfish, he is only ill."

And presently, as if on mature consideration, she rose and went into the house.

His eyes followed, well pleased, the delicate undulations of her figure.

Horace Jewdwine was the most exacting, the most fastidious of men. His entire nature was dominated
by the critical faculty in him; and Lucia satisfied its most difficult demands. Try as he would,
there was really nothing in her which he could take exception to, barring her absurd adoration
of his uncle Frederick; and even that, when you came to think of it, flowed from the innocence
which was more than half her charm. He could not say positively wherein her beauty consisted,
therefore he was always tempted to look at her in the hope of finding out. There was nothing
insistent and nothing obvious about it. Some women, for instance, irritated your admiration
by the capricious prettiness of one or two features, or fatigued it by the monotonous regularity
of all. The beauty of others was vulgarized by the flamboyance of some irrelevant detail, such
as hair. Lucia's hair was merely dark; and it made, as hair should make, the simplest adornment
for her head, the most perfect setting for her face. As for her features, (though it was impossible
to think of them, or anything about her as incorrect) they eluded while they fascinated him
by their subtlety. Lucia's beauty, in short, appealed to him, because it did not commit him
to any irretrievable opinion.

But nothing, not even her beauty, pleased him better than the way in which she managed her
intellect, divining by some infallible instinct how much of it was wanted by any given listener
at a given time. She had none of the nasty tricks that clever women have, always on the look
out to go one better, and to catch you tripping. Her lucidity was remarkable; but it served
to show up other people's strong points rather than her own. Lucia did not impress you as being
clever, and Jewdwine, who had a clever man's natural distaste for clever women, admired his
cousin's intellect, as well he might, for it was he who had taught her how to use it. Her sense
of humour, too (for Lucia was dangerously gifted), that sense which more than any of her senses
can wreck a woman--he would have liked her just as well if she had had none; but some, no doubt,
she needed, if only to save her from the situations to which her kindness and her innocence
exposed her; and she had just the right amount and no more. Heavens! Supposing, without it,
she had met Keith Rickman and had yielded to the temptation to be kind to him! Even in the
heat Jewdwine shivered at the thought.

He put it from him, he put Rickman altogether from his mind. It was not to think about Rickman
that he came down to Court House. On a day as hot as this, he wanted nothing but to keep cool.
The gentle oscillation of the hammock in the green shadows of the beech-tree symbolized this
attitude towards Rickman and all other ardent questions.

Still, it was not disagreeable to know that if he could only make up his mind to something
very definite and irretrievable indeed, Court House would one day be his. It was the only house
in England that came up to his idea of what a country house should be. A square Tudor building
with two short, gable-ended wings, thrown out at right angles to its front; three friendly
grey walls enclosing a little courtyard made golden all day long with sunshine from the south.
Court House was older than anything near it except Harmouth Bridge and the Parish Church. Standing
apart in its own green lands, it looked older than the young red earth beneath it, a mass upheaved
from the grey foundations of the hills. Its face, turned seawards, was rough and pitted with
the salt air; thousands upon thousands of lichens gave it a greenish bloom, with here and there
a rusty patch on groin and gable. It contained the Harden Library, the Harden Library, one
of the finest private collections in the country. It contained also his cousin Lucia.

He had always loved Court House, but not always his cousin Lucia. The scholarly descendant
of a long line of scholars, Jewdwine knew that he had been a favourite with his grandfather,
Sir Joseph Harden, the Master of Lazarus, he was convinced (erroneously) that he was a Harden
by blood and by temperament, and of course if he had only been a Harden by name, and not a
Jewdwine, Court House and the great Harden Library would have been his instead of his cousin
Lucia's. He knew that his grandfather had wished them to be his. Lucia's mother was dead long
ago; and when his uncle Sir Frederick definitely renounced the domestic life, Lucia and Lucia
alone stood between him and the inheritance that should have been his. This hardly constituted
a reason for being fond of Lucia.

His grandfather had wished him to be fond of her. But not until Jewdwine was five and twenty
and began to feel the primordial manhood stirring in his scholarly blood did he perceive that
his cousin Lucia was not a hindrance but a way. The way was so obvious that it was no wonder
that he did not see it all at once. He did not really see it till Sir Joseph sent for him on
his death-bed.

"There's been some mistake, Horace," Sir Joseph had then said. "Your mother should have been
the boy and your uncle Frederick the girl. Then Lucia would have been a Jewdwine, and you a
Harden."

And Horace had said, "I'm afraid I can't be a Harden, sir; but is there any reason why Lucia--?"

"I was coming to that," said Sir Joseph. But he never came to it. Horace, however, was in some
way aware that the same idea had occurred to both of them. Whatever it was, the old man had
died happy in it.

There was no engagement, only a something altogether intangible and vague, understood to be
an understanding. And Lucia adored him. If she had not adored him he might have been urged
to something irretrievable and definite. As it was, there was no need, and nothing could have
been more soothing than the golden concord of that understanding.

Needless to say if Lucia had been anybody but Lucia, such a solution would have been impossible.
He was fastidious. He would not have married a woman simply because his grandfather wished
it; and he could not have married a woman simply because she inherited property that ought
to have been his. And he could not have married any woman who would have suspected him of such
brutality. He could only marry a woman who was consummately suitable to him, in whom nothing
jarred, nothing offended; and his cousin Lucia was such a woman. The very fact that she was
his cousin was an assurance of her rightness. It followed that, love being the expression of
that perfect and predestined harmony, he could only marry for love. Not for a great estate,
for Court House and the Harden Library. No, to do him justice, his seeking of Lucia was independent
of his reflection that these things would be added unto him. Still, once married to Lucia,
there was only Sir Frederick and his infernal fiddle between him and ultimate, inviolable possession;
and Sir Frederick, to use his own phrase, had "about played himself out." From what a stage
and to what mad music!

