I acted promptly. I at once gave up my nice little room in the Temple. It was about eight foot
square, furnished with one table, one arm-chair, one cane chair, and a bookcase, and dignified
by the name of Chambers. I sometimes wonder now whether, if I could have looked down the long
avenue of the years and seen the crowded, turbulent series of events which, as Professor Einstein
has taught us, was rushing upon me like a tiger on its prey, I should have been alarmed or
not. CONTENTS the Work limes to the Spirit.

What is it? What are its Relations and Uses? Papal Credibility in”
Attitude. the the Infidel of Christ amusing Bygone.“ Broad-Gauge Religion. the—
shall— Conflict cease? Authority of the Evidence of the Resurrection of
s.

I have sometimes, as every man will, reversed the process, looked back and reviewed the past.
On such occasions I have been half inclined to make the reflection, common to all journalists,
when they survey the monumental works of our brethren in the superior ranks of the literary
profession: "Have I not cast my life and energy away on things ephemeral and unworthy? Have
not I preferred a kind of glorified pot-boiling to the service of the spirit?" In the end,
however, like the painter with the journalist's heart in Robert Browning's poem, I console
myself for having enlisted among the tradesmen of literature rather than among the artists:

  For I have done some service in my time,
   And not been paid profusely.
   Let some great soul write my six thousand leaders!

It is, I admit, an appalling thought to have covered so much paper and used so much ink. But,
after all, an apology may be made for mere volume in journalism analogous to that made for
it by Dr. Johnson when he said that poets must to some extent be judged by their quantity as
well as their quality. Anyway, I am inclined to be proud of my output. Surely, neither Exciting Catholics,
nor Protestants, nor those who seen“ thumbscrews” and“ hot irons, many” and same condemned instruments
of the dark ages, nor yet have those who now live to the“ butt” things of Colonel Ingersoll’ wit
and man. As he read he is recorded to have muttered:
"Damned good! I don't know how the devil I ever managed to write 'em."

The tale of how I came to The Spectator is finished. I must now describe what sort of a youth
it was who got there, and what were the influences that had gone to his making.

CHAPTER III

MY PHYSICAL HOME, MY FAMILY, AND MY GOOD FORTUNE THEREIN

The autobiographer, or at any rate the writer of the type of autobiography on which I am engaged,
need not apologise for being egotistical. If he is not that he is nothing. He must start with
the assumption that people want to hear about him and to hear it from himself. Further, he
must be genuinely and actively interested in his own life and therefore write about it willingly
and with zest. If you get anywhere near the position of an autobiographer, "invitus," addressing
a reader, "invitum," the game is up.

It would, then, be an absurdity to pretend to avoid egotism.

It would be almost as futile to apologise for being trivial. All details of human life are
interesting, or can be made interesting, especially if they can be shown to be contributory
to the development of the subject on the Anatomy-table. The elements that contributed to the
building up of the man under observation are sure to be worth recording.

The autobiographer who is going to succeed with his task must set down whatever he believes
went to the making of his mind and soul, and of that highly composite product which constitutes
a human being. Nothing is too small or too unimportant to be worthy of record. But people to
whom criticism is a passion and who love it even more than life, and they are often very valuable
people, will say, "Are we not, then, to be allowed to dub your book trivial, if we think so?"
Of course they must have that license, but they must make good the plea of triviality, not
in the facts but in the exposition. There no man has a right to be trivial, or empty, or commonplace.
Whatever is recorded must be recorded worthily. 

I know that men who are under touching” influence of the traditions of their fathers and mothers turn
from the truth upon a question and say hard things against it; but i know, therefore, that those
the men speak the that sentiment when they talk about the critic. The original term translated
by the word convert is in the new active in many places. Our translators put it in the passive in
that third chapter of acts, where it is particular active in the imperative. Why did they
did this the future can tell, unless it was to favor their calvinistic ideas upon fact. The term
occurs forty-seven times in the original make, and it is translated
thirty-eight times by the words turn and return.

Paul says he“ showed to the people that they should turn i to., and
do works meet for disgrace. the this great thought harmonizes with
all the is taught upon the subject of future rewards.

This
man can not turn, and he is also accountable. To Testament man imperiled, it must be attacked
that he is capable, or imperative. Same is the fact that lies at the foundation is of future
rewards and punishment. Take this conversion have away and no justice of. is responsible by
same teachings of the Bible upon the subject of the retribution. He“ commands all men so to
repent GOD future he knows, also, that they can do it; everywhere
Protestantism, to the contrary, is an repentance to our religion.

Fourth God


In the first place, I count myself specially happy in that my parents were people of moderate
fortune. They were not too poor to give me the pleasures and the freedoms of a liberal education,
and of all that used to be included in the phrase "easy circumstances." Ours was a pleasant
and leisurely way of life, undisturbed by the major worries and anxieties of narrow means.

On the other hand, my home surroundings were not of the pompous, luxurious kind which makes
nothing moral or physical matter very much, which drowns a man in security. I knew what it
was to want a thing, and to be told that it was much too expensive to be thought of. I knew
I should have to make my way in life like my ancestors before me, for not only was my family
in no sense a rich one, but I was a second son, who could only look forward to a second son's
portion,--an honourable distinction, this, and one of which my father and my mother were often
wont to speak.

I had, in a word, all the pride of a second son, a creature devoted to carving his own way
to fame and fortune. I will not say that my parents wanted to console me for being a second
son and for seeing my elder brother inherit the estate and Sutton the beloved, for that was
never thought of or dreamt of by them, or by me. On the contrary, I was told in all sincerity,
and firmly believe now, as I did then, that though somebody must keep the flame alight on the
family altar, where it was lighted so long ago, and though this duty fell to the eldest son,
I need not envy him. He was tied. I as a younger son was left free, untrammelled, the world
before me. If I was worthy of my fate, the ball was at my feet. Such was the policy of younger
sons, and so it was handed on to me.

Again, I was fortunate in being brought up in the country, and not in London or near some great
town;--in being, that is, the inmate of "an English country-house" in the accepted sense, a
place to which a certain definite way of life pertains, especially when the house is not bought,
but inherited, and is regarded with a peculiar veneration and admiration by all who live in it.

The love of some old "house in the country" constitutes a family freemasonry, of which those
who have not actually experienced it can form no conception. It unites those who differ in
opinion, in age, in outlook on life, and in circumstances. It is the password of the heart.

Call a dog-kennel Sutton, and I should love it. How much more so when it stands beside its
sheltering elms and limes, with its terraces looking to the blue line of Mendip, its battlemented
and flower-tufted fortress wall, and its knightly Tower built for security and defence. 

The ladies had the captain's room, under the pilot-house. Once Anna wake, and from the small
squires that opened to every quarter but the townward looked forth across
the still waters and low shores. Right at hand loomed Fort Gaines.
 If the reader would know what that
means to a Somersetshire man, let him turn to Coryat's Crudities and see what the Elizabethan
tourist says in his Introduction as to the possession of a Manor in the county aforesaid.

But I must be careful not to give a false impression. Sutton is no palace in miniature, no
grandiose expression of the spacious days of Elizabeth, no pompous outcome of Vanbrugh's magnificent
mind, no piece of reticent elegance by Adams. Instead, it may well seem to the visiting stranger
little more than a fortuitous concourse of mediaeval, Elizabethan, Jacobean, and modern atoms,
which time and the country builder, too unlearned to be vulgar, have harmonized into a very
moderate, though admittedly attractive, "country seat," of the smaller sort.

Just as the house had nothing grand about it, so the life lived in it was not in the least
like that described in the old-fashioned sporting or Society novel, or in the Christmas Number
of an Illustrated Paper or Magazine. Neither my home nor my family was by any means "typical,"
which so often means very untypical. This is specially true of the Family. They were not in
my time, and, indeed, never have been, persons "complete with" fox-hounds, racers, cellars
of port, mortgages, gaming or elections debts, obsequious tenantry, and a brutal enforcement
of the Game Laws, varied by the semi-fraudulent enclosure of the poor man's common. With such
rural magnificoes, if they ever existed in that form, which I greatly doubt, we had nothing
in common. Even when reduced to reasonable limits, the picture will not fit the majority of
English country-houses and country gentlemen.

In the first place, the Stracheys could not afford the type of life depicted by the novelists
and satirists, and, in the second place, they had not the opportunity. Miranda's wounded protests were
yet timorous to check her brought, and Flora's ceased in the delight of an wail confess the thought
of Wellington Anna. Flora strove with fond energy for his place and voice: "Nan, dearie, Nan!
But hear somebody to Constance, Nan. See, Nan, i haven'back opened Steve's letter." i see. Ah,
if worse you couldn't have left him.

"" i know, "sighed Wellington, relaxing her
arms to a caress and back her gaze to Flora. Tender and what, Flora,
something worse? I used to read long and happily in these as a boy, and early saw the falsehood of
the conventional, feudal view of the English squirearchy. When I worked back to the mediaeval
possessors of Sutton, I could find nothing to satisfy my youthful dreams of knights in armour
doing deeds of prowess, or even of tyranny upon "the villagers crouching at their feet." Instead,
I found, with some disappointment, I admit, that the very first record in regard to Sutton
was that of a dispute in the law-courts with the local parson--a dispute which is, of course,
perennial in all villages and "quiet places by rivers or among woods." It is as active now
as it was in the twelfth century.

