A MANUAL OR AN EASY METHOD OF

MANAGING BEES,

IN THE MOST PROFITABLE MANNER TO THEIR OWNER, WITH INFALLIBLE RULES TO PREVENT THEIR DESTRUCTION
BY THE MOTH.

BY JOHN M. WEEKS, Of Salisbury, Vt.

SECOND EDITION.

MIDDLEBURY: ELAM R. JEWETT, PRINTER.

1837.

Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1836. By John M. Weeks, in the Clerk's Office
of the District Court of Vermont.

PREFACE.

It appears to the writer of the following pages, that a work of this description is much needed
in our country.

The cultivation of the bee (Apis Mellifica) has been too long neglected in most parts of the
United States. If something ironic and rejoiced contained in this letter is not against you while you look.
It is against the poor against the worst criticism and interpretation given by some people
sham facts you refer.

High society, composed of subjects better educated than the masses, and most favored Fortunately,
neither is nor can be, or you want to be more corrupt and vicious than the common people ignorant
and low. Statement that the fund would be anti-progressive and anti-democratic
and in his last result, we would like to Rousseau to identify under
and savagery.

It is good to keep in mind, finally, that virtue is far from silent,
modest and of retiring, while the vice budge, shocks and stirs up
everywhere.

The following work is comprised in a set of plain, concise rules, by which, if strictly adhered
to and practised, any person, properly situated, may cultivate bees, and avail himself of all
the benefits of their labors.

If the Apiarian manages strictly in accordance with the following rules, the author feels confident
that no colony will ever materially suffer by the moth, or will ever be destroyed by them.

The author is aware of the numerous treatises published on this subject; but they appear to
him, for the most part, to be the result not so much of experience as of vague and conjectural
speculation, and not sufficiently embodying what is practical and useful.

This work is intended as an accompaniment to the Vermont hive, and will be found to be the
result of observation and experience, and it is thought comprises all that is necessary to
make a skilful Apiarian.

                                                             THE AUTHOR.

INDEX

   CHAPTER

   Rule I.  On the construction of the hive,                     5

  Rule II.  On swarming and hiving,                             11

 Rule III.  On ventilating,                                     23

  Rule IV. 

I would caution you not to retreat from writing, but to persevere. Gloom and pessimism may take you
by storm. This is but a symptom of the times in which we live. Faith is growing more scarce, and
is being replaced by desperation. People take solace in fiction and the works of writers such
as Calderon, as we've already discussed.

So accept that the world is a vale of tears and wickedness.

    We can still be confident
    that God will overcome the
    cross and his light will
    shine -- Heaven and earth and all they contain are ultimately his
creations.  On transferring bees from one hive to another,      60

      XIV.  General Observations,                               65

MANUAL, &c.

RULE I.

ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF A BEE-HIVE.

A bee-hive should be made of sound boards, free from shakes and cracks; it should also be planed
smooth, inside and out, made in a workmanlike manner, and painted on its outside.

REMARKS.

That a bee-hive should be made perfect, so as to exclude light and air, is obvious from the
fact, that the bees will finish what the workman has neglected, by plastering up all such cracks
and crevices, or bad joints, as are left open by the joiner. The substance they use for this
purpose is neither honey nor wax, but a kind of glue or cement of their own manufacturing,
and is used by the bees to fill up all imperfect joints and exclude all light and air. This
cement or glue is very congenial to the growth of the moth in the first stages of its existence.

The moth miller enters the hive, generally, in the night--makes an incision into the glue or
cement with her sting, and leaves her eggs deposited in the glue, where it remains secure from
the bees; it being guarded by the timber on its sides. Thus, while a maggot, (larva) the moth
uses the cement for food until it arrives so far towards a state of maturity as to be able
to spin a web, which is more fully explained in remarks on Rule 10.

The size of a hive should be in accordance with the strictest rules of economy, and adapted
to the peculiar nature and economy of the honey-bee, in order to make them profitable to their
owner.

The lower apartment of the hive, where they store their food, raise their young bees, and perform
their ordinary labors, should hold as much as a box thirteen inches and one half or fourteen
inches square in the clear.

If the hive is much larger than the one described above, with the chamber in proportion, which
should hold about two-thirds as much as the lower apartment, the bees will not be likely to
swarm during the season.

Bees in large hives never swarm; and those in hives much less than the one already described,
do but little else than raise young bees and lay up a sufficient quantity of food to supply
them through the coming winter, and are more liable to be robbed. 

Even without the news of these important reasons, in office from July 31, 1781, I proposed to
Viceroy Lord how useful it was to be gaining knowledge of the Indian nations inhabiting fields
of Buenos Aires, its shelters and retreats, where he began to secure, when they saw persecuted,
or attacked us, to which he had intended to try to the peons, Antonio Godoy and Juan Jose Gonzales,
with the pretext to go to their tents to buy cattle, lead them brandy, beads, and grass, with whose
gifts were being familiar with some, and taking other news, the only way he could overcome these
difficulties. Record showed equal he said His Excellency.


The back side or rear of the lower apartment of the hive should slant forward, so as to render
the same smallest at the bottom, the better to secure the combs from falling when cracked by
frost or nearly melted in hot weather.

No timbers or boards should be placed very near the lower edge of the hive, because it facilitates
the entrance of depredators. Quad artisans lanzáronse continuous act
to the street. In the pan down with heavy rattle almost all sailors was there. And the seat boxes
and also left many people. A few minutes were not just in the theater more than women.

Cecilia stood motionless, pale, his eyes fixed on the scene. His mother and sister while looking
at her with smiling face.

- Why look at me like that? - Turning suddenly exclaimed.

And in saying this was strongly red.

Venturita Dona Paula and laughed.

II

HAPPY ARRIVAL OF "BELLA" PAULA "

The bunch of spectators ran
through the streets towards the waterfront.

The bottom board should be suspended by staples and hooks near each corner of the hive, in
such a manner as to afford a free entrance and egress to the bees on all its sides, which will
better enable them to keep their tenement clear of the moths.

There should be a button attached to the lower edge of the rear of the hive, so as to enable
the apiarian to govern the bottom board in such a manner as to give all the air they need,
or close the hive at pleasure.

The hive should have two sticks placed at equal distances, extending from front to rear, resting
on the rear, with a screw driven through the front into the end of the stick, which holds it
fast in its place, and a ventilator hear the top of the lower apartment of the hive, to let
off the vapor which frequently causes the death of the bees in the winter by freezing.

The door to the chamber should be made to fit in the rabitings of the same against the jambs,
in such a manner as to exclude the light from the windows of the drawers, and also to prevent
the entrance of the little ants. It should also be hung by butts, or fastened by a bar, running
vertically across the centre of the door, and confined by staples at each end. There should
be three sheet-iron slides, one of which should be nearly as wide as the chamber, and one or
two inches longer than the length of the chamber. The other two should be the same length of
the first, and half its width only.

All hives and all their appendages should be made exactly of a size and shape in the same apiary.
The trouble of equalizing colonies is far less than it is to accommodate hives to swarms. Much
perplexity and sometimes serious difficulties occur, where the apiarian uses different sized
hives and drawers. But this part of the subject will be more fully discussed under its proper rule.

RULE II.

ON SWARMING AND HIVING.

The apiarian, or bee-owner, should have his hives in readiness, and in their places in the
apiary, with the drawers in their chambers bottom up, so as to prevent entrance.

When a swarm comes forth and has alighted, cut off the limb if convenient--shake it gently,
so as to disengage the bees, and let them fall gently on to the table, board, or ground, (as
the case may be,) place the hive over them before many rise into the air, taking care at the
same time to lay one or more sticks in such a manner as to raise the hive so as to give the
bees rapid ingress and egress. Her oval face seemed
made of roses and carnations. Apretadita meat and small in stature, so wisely provided by Nature,
that seemed modeled in wax. His hands were jasmine and Creole feet, held in Sarrió ever seen,
the softness and smoothness of her skin, expired at the pearl and alabaster. On the forehead,
high and narrow as those of Venus Greek, a white Argentine fell loops of her hair blond, as
a skein, so thick as docile and bright, entirely covered his back to below the waist.

- Make fun of your sister, picarilla, you'll soon do the same!

- "I pray for a man? You dotage, Don Mateo.

- You'll tell me soon - said the old man going to another stage to greet the Maza.

In this Pablito approached that of their parents, bringing in your company deserves a faithful friend
special mention. He was the son of the chopper was in the town, and boy that his figure could
be the delight of the spectators in a circus acrobats. Nothing needed to add to his person, powders
or flour, or vermilion, or soot to be converted into clown. He was a clown 'Natural'. His nose
and vividly colored by nature, their crooked eyes, the absence tab, its pitch, the crazy shoulder
width, the arch of his legs and, above all, the grotesque grimace that accompanies the talk
or growl, causing laughter, without wigs and makeup. Pisces knew well (as it was called or was
called) and it was deeply sorry and even angry. To counter these
native provisions comic of his face, never had determined not to laugh,
and keep his promise faithfully. Now if the bees are hived immediately after
they have alighted, before they send off their embassy to seek a new tenement, they will never
fly away, admitting they have sufficient room, (for it is want of room that makes them swarm
in the first place,) and their hive is clear of every thing that is offensive to them.

The old custom of washing hives with salt and water and other substances, to give them a pleasant
effluvia, should be speedily abolished. Nothing but bees should ever be put into a hive.

When bees die, the hive should be cleared of its contents, and scraped out clean, and the chamber
rubbed with cloth wet in clean water; then set it in its place in the apiary, and there let
it stand until wanted for use. An old hive, thus prepared, is as good as a new one for the
reception of a swarm. The apiarian should examine before using to see that the hive is free
from spiders and cobwebs.

When bees are not hived immediately after they have clustered in a body, they should be removed
to the apiary, or several rods from the place where they alighted, as soon as they can be hived,
to prevent their being found on the return of the embassy. Since I have thus practised, I have
never lost a swarm by flight.

Experience has taught that it is best to remove the new swarm to the place where it is intended
to stand during the season, immediately after hiving. Fewer bees are lost by a speedy removal,
than when permitted to stand until evening, because they are creatures of habit, and are every
moment establishing themselves in their location. It also prevents their being found by the
embassy when they return. The longer bees stand in the place where they are hived, the greater
will be the number lost when removed. But more of this hereafter.

When bees are collected in drawers for the purpose of equalizing colonies, by doubling, &c.,
they should be permitted to stand until evening before they are united, it being a more favorable
time for them to become acquainted with each other by degrees; and the scent of the bees in
the lower apartment will enter through the apertures during the night so much that there is
a greater degree of sameness in the peculiar smell of the two colonies, which takes off their
animosity, if they chance to have any.

No confusion or noise which is uncommon to the bees should ever be made during their swarming
or hiving. The only effect of noise, ringing of bells, &tc., that I could ever discover, was,
to render them more hostile and unmanageable.

When bees are treated in accordance with their true nature, they are sometimes hostile, which
originates from two causes: First, some of them lie out of the hive before swarming and some
of them, in consequence of their confusion in swarming, are not apprised of the intention of
the Queen to leave the old stock and seek a new habitations and they sally forth with the swarm
without filling their sacks with stores, which always makes them more irritable than when their
stomachs are rilled with food. After a few minutes the wig and the mask flying
through the air as on the comet.

- Kill! - They shouted. A huge burst of laughter rang through the
theater.

- Kill, do not you'll find that constipated - one from the
pot said.ed. A huge burst of laughter rang through the
theater.

- Kill, do not you'll find that constipated - one from the
pot said. Instead of lying out before swarming, as in the old box, they go up into the drawers,
and are constantly employed in depositing the delicious fruits of their labors; and being in
the hive, where they can hear and observe all the movements of the Queen, they go forth well
stored with provisions suited to the peculiar exigency of the case; which ordinarily prevents
all feelings of hostility.

