LORD ARTHUR SAVILE'S CRIME AND OTHER STORIES

Contents

Lord Arthur Savile's Crime The Canterville Ghost The Sphinx Without a Secret The Model Millionaire
The Portrait of Mr. W. H.

LORD ARTHUR SAVILE'S CRIME

CHAPTER I

It was Lady Windermere's last reception before Easter, and Bentinck House was even more crowded
than usual.  Six Cabinet Ministers had come on from the Speaker's Levee in their stars and
ribands, all the pretty women wore their smartest dresses, and at the end of the picture-gallery
stood the Princess Sophia of Carlsruhe, a heavy Tartar-looking lady, with tiny black eyes and
wonderful emeralds, talking bad French at the top of her voice, and laughing immoderately at
everything that was said to her.  It was certainly a wonderful medley of people.  Gorgeous
peeresses chatted affably to violent Radicals, popular preachers brushed coat-tails with eminent
sceptics, a perfect bevy of bishops kept following a stout prima- donna from room to room,
on the staircase stood several Royal Academicians, disguised as artists, and it was said that
at one time the supper-room was absolutely crammed with geniuses.  In fact, it was one of Lady
Windermere's best nights, and the Princess stayed till nearly half-past eleven.

As soon as she had gone, Lady Windermere returned to the picture- gallery, where a celebrated
political economist was solemnly explaining the scientific theory of music to an indignant
virtuoso from Hungary, and began to talk to the Duchess of Paisley.  She looked wonderfully
beautiful with her grand ivory throat, her large blue forget-me-not eyes, and her heavy coils
of golden hair.  Or pur they were--not that pale straw colour that nowadays usurps the gracious
name of gold, but such gold as is woven into sunbeams or hidden in strange amber; and they
gave to her face something of the frame of a saint, with not a little of the fascination of
a sinner. She was a curious psychological study.  Early in life she had discovered the important
truth that nothing looks so like innocence as an indiscretion; and by a series of reckless
escapades, half of them quite harmless, she had acquired all the privileges of a personality.
She had more than once changed her husband; indeed, Debrett credits her with three marriages;
but as she had never changed her lover, the world had long ago ceased to talk scandal about
her.  She was now forty years of age, childless, and with that inordinate passion for pleasure
which is the secret of remaining young.

Suddenly she looked eagerly round the room, and said, in her clear contralto voice, 'Where
is my cheiromantist?'

'Your what, Gladys?' exclaimed the Duchess, giving an involuntary start.

'My cheiromantist, Duchess; I can't live without him at present.'

'Dear Gladys! you are always so original,' murmured the Duchess, trying to remember what a
cheiromantist really was, and hoping it was not the same as a cheiropodist.

'He comes to see my hand twice a week regularly,' continued Lady Windermere, 'and is most interesting
about it.'

'Good heavens!' said the Duchess to herself, 'he is a sort of cheiropodist after all.  How
very dreadful.  I hope he is a foreigner at any rate.  It wouldn't be quite so bad then.'

'I must certainly introduce him to you.'

'Introduce him!' cried the Duchess; 'you don't mean to say he is here?' and she began looking
about for a small tortoise-shell fan and a very tattered lace shawl, so as to be ready to go
at a moment's notice.

'Of course he is here; I would not dream of giving a party without him.  He tells me I have
a pure psychic hand, and that if my thumb had been the least little bit shorter, I should have
been a confirmed pessimist, and gone into a convent.'

'Oh, I see!' said the Duchess, feeling very much relieved; 'he tells fortunes, I suppose?'

'And misfortunes, too,' answered Lady Windermere, 'any amount of them.  Next year, for instance,
I am in great danger, both by land and sea, so I am going to live in a balloon, and draw up
my dinner in a basket every evening.  It is all written down on my little finger, or on the
palm of my hand, I forget which.'

'But surely that is tempting Providence, Gladys.'

'My dear Duchess, surely Providence can resist temptation by this time.  I think every one
should have their hands told once a month, so as to know what not to do.  Of course, one does
it all the same, but it is so pleasant to be warned.  Now if some one doesn't go and fetch
Mr. Podgers at once, I shall have to go myself.'

'Let me go, Lady Windermere,' said a tall handsome young man, who was standing by, listening
to the conversation with an amused smile.

'Thanks so much, Lord Arthur; but I am afraid you wouldn't recognise him.'

'If he is as wonderful as you say, Lady Windermere, I couldn't well miss him.  Tell me what
he is like, and I'll bring him to you at once.'

'Well, he is not a bit like a cheiromantist.  I mean he is not mysterious, or esoteric, or
romantic-looking.  He is a little, stout man, with a funny, bald head, and great gold-rimmed
spectacles; something between a family doctor and a country attorney.  I'm really very sorry,
but it is not my fault.  People are so annoying. All my pianists look exactly like poets, and
all my poets look exactly like pianists; and I remember last season asking a most dreadful
conspirator to dinner, a man who had blown up ever so many people, and always wore a coat of
mail, and carried a dagger up his shirt-sleeve; and do you know that when he came he looked
just like a nice old clergyman, and cracked jokes all the evening?  Of course, he was very
amusing, and all that, but I was awfully disappointed; and when I asked him about the coat
of mail, he only laughed, and said it was far too cold to wear in England.  Ah, here is Mr.
Podgers!  Now, Mr. Podgers, I want you to tell the Duchess of Paisley's hand.  Duchess, you
must take your glove off.  No, not the left hand, the other.'

'Dear Gladys, I really don't think it is quite right,' said the Duchess, feebly unbuttoning
a rather soiled kid glove.

'Nothing interesting ever is,' said Lady Windermere:  'on a fait le monde ainsi.  But I must
introduce you.  Duchess, this is Mr. Podgers, my pet cheiromantist.  Mr. Podgers, this is the
Duchess of Paisley, and if you say that she has a larger mountain of the moon than I have,
I will never believe in you again.'

'I am sure, Gladys, there is nothing of the kind in my hand,' said the Duchess gravely.

'Your Grace is quite right,' said Mr. Podgers, glancing at the little fat hand with its short
square fingers, 'the mountain of the moon is not developed.  The line of life, however, is
excellent. Kindly bend the wrist.  Thank you.  Three distinct lines on the rascette!  You will
live to a great age, Duchess, and be extremely happy.  Ambition--very moderate, line of intellect
not exaggerated, line of heart--'

'Now, do be indiscreet, Mr. Podgers,' cried Lady Windermere.

'Nothing would give me greater pleasure,' said Mr. Podgers, bowing, 'if the Duchess ever had
been, but I am sorry to say that I see great permanence of affection, combined with a strong
sense of duty.'

'Pray go on, Mr. Podgers,' said the Duchess, looking quite pleased.

'Economy is not the least of your Grace's virtues,' continued Mr. Podgers, and Lady Windermere
went off into fits of laughter.

'Economy is a very good thing,' remarked the Duchess complacently; 'when I married Paisley
he had eleven castles, and not a single house fit to live in.'

'And now he has twelve houses, and not a single castle,' cried Lady Windermere.

'Well, my dear,' said the Duchess, 'I like--'

'Comfort,' said Mr. Podgers, 'and modern improvements, and hot water laid on in every bedroom.
Your Grace is quite right.  Comfort is the only thing our civilisation can give us.

'You have told the Duchess's character admirably, Mr. Podgers, and now you must tell Lady Flora's';
and in answer to a nod from the smiling hostess, a tall girl, with sandy Scotch hair, and high
shoulder-blades, stepped awkwardly from behind the sofa, and held out a long, bony hand with
spatulate fingers.

'Ah, a pianist! I see,' said Mr. Podgers, 'an excellent pianist, but perhaps hardly a musician.
Very reserved, very honest, and with a great love of animals.'

'Quite true!' exclaimed the Duchess, turning to Lady Windermere, 'absolutely true!  Flora keeps
two dozen collie dogs at Macloskie, and would turn our town house into a menagerie if her father
would let her.'

'Well, that is just what I do with my house every Thursday evening,' cried Lady Windermere,
laughing, 'only I like lions better than collie dogs.'

'Your one mistake, Lady Windermere,' said Mr. Podgers, with a pompous bow.

'If a woman can't make her mistakes charming, she is only a female,' was the answer.  'But
you must read some more hands for us.  Come, Sir Thomas, show Mr. Podgers yours'; and a genial-looking
old gentleman, in a white waistcoat, came forward, and held out a thick rugged hand, with a
very long third finger.

'An adventurous nature; four long voyages in the past, and one to come.  Been ship-wrecked
three times.  No, only twice, but in danger of a shipwreck your next journey.  A strong Conservative,
very punctual, and with a passion for collecting curiosities.  Had a severe illness between
the ages sixteen and eighteen.  Was left a fortune when about thirty.  Great aversion to cats
and Radicals.'

'Extraordinary!' exclaimed Sir Thomas; 'you must really tell my wife's hand, too.'

'Your second wife's,' said Mr. Podgers quietly, still keeping Sir Thomas's hand in his.  'Your
second wife's.  I shall be charmed'; but Lady Marvel, a melancholy-looking woman, with brown
hair and sentimental eyelashes, entirely declined to have her past or her future exposed; and
nothing that Lady Windermere could do would induce Monsieur de Koloff, the Russian Ambassador,
even to take his gloves off.  In fact, many people seemed afraid to face the odd little man
with his stereotyped smile, his gold spectacles, and his bright, beady eyes; and when he told
poor Lady Fermor, right out before every one, that she did not care a bit for music, but was
extremely fond of musicians, it was generally felt that cheiromancy was a most dangerous science,
and one that ought not to be encouraged, except in a tete-a-tete.

Lord Arthur Savile, however, who did not know anything about Lady Fermor's unfortunate story,
and who had been watching Mr. Podgers with a great deal of interest, was filled with an immense
curiosity to have his own hand read, and feeling somewhat shy about putting himself forward,
crossed over the room to where Lady Windermere was sitting, and, with a charming blush, asked
her if she thought Mr. Podgers would mind.

'Of course, he won't mind,' said Lady Windermere, 'that is what he is here for.  All my lions,
Lord Arthur, are performing lions, and jump through hoops whenever I ask them.  But I must
warn you beforehand that I shall tell Sybil everything.  She is coming to lunch with me to-morrow,
to talk about bonnets, and if Mr. Podgers finds out that you have a bad temper, or a tendency
to gout, or a wife living in Bayswater, I shall certainly let her know all about it.'

Lord Arthur smiled, and shook his head.  'I am not afraid,' he answered.  'Sybil knows me as
well as I know her.'

'Ah!  I am a little sorry to hear you say that.  The proper basis for marriage is a mutual
misunderstanding.  No, I am not at all cynical, I have merely got experience, which, however,
is very much the same thing.  Mr. Podgers, Lord Arthur Savile is dying to have his hand read.
Don't tell him that he is engaged to one of the most beautiful girls in London, because that
appeared in the Morning Post a month ago.

'Dear Lady Windermere,' cried the Marchioness of Jedburgh, 'do let Mr. Podgers stay here a
little longer.  He has just told me I should go on the stage, and I am so interested.'

'If he has told you that, Lady Jedburgh, I shall certainly take him away.  Come over at once,
Mr. Podgers, and read Lord Arthur's hand.'

'Well,' said Lady Jedburgh, making a little moue as she rose from the sofa, 'if I am not to
be allowed to go on the stage, I must be allowed to be part of the audience at any rate.'

'Of course; we are all going to be part of the audience,' said Lady Windermere; 'and now, Mr.
Podgers, be sure and tell us something nice.  Lord Arthur is one of my special favourites.'

But when Mr. Podgers saw Lord Arthur's hand he grew curiously pale, and said nothing.  A shudder
seemed to pass through him, and his great bushy eyebrows twitched convulsively, in an odd,
irritating way they had when he was puzzled.  Then some huge beads of perspiration broke out
on his yellow forehead, like a poisonous dew, and his fat fingers grew cold and clammy.

Lord Arthur did not fail to notice these strange signs of agitation, and, for the first time
in his life, he himself felt fear.  His impulse was to rush from the room, but he restrained
himself.  It was better to know the worst, whatever it was, than to be left in this hideous
uncertainty.

'I am waiting, Mr. Podgers,' he said.

'We are all waiting,' cried Lady Windermere, in her quick, impatient manner, but the cheiromantist
made no reply.

'I believe Arthur is going on the stage,' said Lady Jedburgh, 'and that, after your scolding,
Mr. Podgers is afraid to tell him so.'

Suddenly Mr. Podgers dropped Lord Arthur's right hand, and seized hold of his left, bending
down so low to examine it that the gold rims of his spectacles seemed almost to touch the palm.
For a moment his face became a white mask of horror, but he soon recovered his sang-froid,
and looking up at Lady Windermere, said with a forced smile, 'It is the hand of a charming
young man.

'Of course it is!' answered Lady Windermere, 'but will he be a charming husband?  That is what
I want to know.'

'All charming young men are,' said Mr. Podgers.

'I don't think a husband should be too fascinating,' murmured Lady Jedburgh pensively, 'it
is so dangerous.'

'My dear child, they never are too fascinating,' cried Lady Windermere.  'But what I want are
details.  Details are the only things that interest.  What is going to happen to Lord Arthur?'

'Well, within the next few months Lord Arthur will go a voyage--'

'Oh yes, his honeymoon, of course!'

'And lose a relative.'

'Not his sister, I hope?' said Lady Jedburgh, in a piteous tone of voice.

'Certainly not his sister,' answered Mr. Podgers, with a deprecating wave of the hand, 'a distant
relative merely.'

'Well, I am dreadfully disappointed,' said Lady Windermere.  'I have absolutely nothing to
tell Sybil to-morrow.  No one cares about distant relatives nowadays.  They went out of fashion
years ago. However, I suppose she had better have a black silk by her; it always does for church,
you know.  And now let us go to supper. They are sure to have eaten everything up, but we may
find some hot soup.  Francois used to make excellent soup once, but he is so agitated about
politics at present, that I never feel quite certain about him.  I do wish General Boulanger
would keep quiet.  Duchess, I am sure you are tired?'

