It is five-and-thirty, or perhaps nearer forty years ago, since, to relieve the dejection of
spirits occasioned by a great family loss sustained two or three months before, I undertook
what was called the short Highland tour. This had become in some degree fashionable; but though
the military roads were excellent, yet the accommodation was so indifferent that it was reckoned
a little adventure to accomplish it. Besides, the Highlands, though now as peaceable as any
part of King George's dominions, was a sound which still carried terror, while so many survived
who had witnessed the insurrection of 1745; and a vague idea of fear was impressed on many
as they looked from the towers of Stirling northward to the huge chain of mountains, which
rises like a dusky rampart to conceal in its recesses a people whose dress, manners, and language
differed still very much from those of their Lowland countrymen. For my part, I come of a race
not greatly subject to apprehensions arising from imagination only. I had some Highland relatives;
know several of their families of distinction; and though only having the company of my bower-maiden,
Mrs. Alice Lambskin, I went on my journey fearless.

But then I had a guide and cicerone, almost equal to Greatheart in the Pilgrim's Progress,
in no less a person than Donald MacLeish, the postilion whom I hired at Stirling, with a pair
of able-bodied horses, as steady as Donald himself, to drag my carriage, my duenna, and myself,
wheresoever it was my pleasure to go.

Donald MacLeish was one of a race of post-boys whom, I suppose, mail-coaches and steamboats
have put out of fashion. They were to be found chiefly at Perth, Stirling, or Glasgow, where
they and their horses were usually hired by travellers, or tourists, to accomplish such journeys
of business or pleasure as they might have to perform in the land of the Gael. This class of
persons approached to the character of what is called abroad a CONDUCTEUR; or might be compared
to the sailing-master on board a British ship of war, who follows out after his own manner
the course which the captain commands him to observe. You explained to your postilion the length
of your tour, and the objects you were desirous it should embrace; and you found him perfectly
competent to fix the places of rest or refreshment, with due attention that those should be
chosen with reference to your convenience, and to any points of interest which you might desire
to visit.

The qualifications of such a person were necessarily much superior to those of the "first ready,"
who gallops thrice-a-day over the same ten miles. Donald MacLeish, besides being quite alert
at repairing all ordinary accidents to his horses and carriage, and in making shift to support
them, where forage was scarce, with such substitutes as bannocks and cakes, was likewise a
man of intellectual resources. He had acquired a general knowledge of the traditional stories
of the country which he had traversed so often; and if encouraged (for Donald was a man of
the most decorous reserve), he would willingly point out to you the site of the principal clan-battles,
and recount the most remarkable legends by which the road, and the objects which occurred in
travelling it, had been distinguished. There was some originality in the man's habits of thinking
and expressing himself, his turn for legendary lore strangely contrasting with a portion of
the knowing shrewdness belonging to his actual occupation, which made his conversation amuse
the way well enough.

Add to this, Donald knew all his peculiar duties in the country which he traversed so frequently.
He could tell, to a day, when they would "be killing" lamb at Tyndrum or Glenuilt; so that
the stranger would have some chance of being fed like a Christian; and knew to a mile the last
village where it was possible to procure a wheaten loaf for the guidance of those who were
little familiar with the Land of Cakes. He was acquainted with the road every mile, and could
tell to an inch which side of a Highland bridge was passable, which decidedly dangerous. [This
is, or was at least, a necessary accomplishment. In one of the most beautiful districts of
the Highlands was, not many years since, a bridge bearing this startling caution, "Keep to
the right side, the left being dangerous."] In short, Donald MacLeish was not only our faithful
attendant and steady servant, but our humble and obliging friend; and though I have known the
half-classical cicerone of Italy, the talkative French valet-de-place, and even the muleteer
of Spain, who piques himself on being a maize-eater, and whose honour is not to be questioned
without danger, I do not think I have ever had so sensible and intelligent a guide.

Our motions were of course under Donald's direction; and it frequently happened, when the weather
was serene, that we preferred halting to rest his horses even where there was no established
stage, and taking our refreshment under a crag, from which leaped a waterfall, or beside the
verge of a fountain, enamelled with verdant turf and wild-flowers. Donald had an eye for such
spots, and though he had, I dare say, never read Gil Blas or Don Quixote, yet he chose such
halting-places as Le Sage or Cervantes would have described. Very often, as he observed the
pleasure I took in conversing with the country people, he would manage to fix our place of
rest near a cottage, where there was some old Gael whose broadsword had blazed at Falkirk or
Preston, and who seemed the frail yet faithful record of times which had passed away. Or he
would contrive to quarter us, as far as a cup of tea went, upon the hospitality of some parish
minister of worth and intelligence, or some country family of the better class, who mingled
with the wild simplicity of their original manners, and their ready and hospitable welcome,
a sort of courtesy belonging to a people, the lowest of whom are accustomed to consider themselves
as being, according to the Spanish phrase, "as good gentlemen as the king, only not quite so rich."

To all such persons Donald MacLeish was well known, and his introduction passed as current
as if we had brought letters from some high chief of the country.

Sometimes it happened that the Highland hospitality, which welcomed us with all the variety
of mountain fare, preparations of milk and eggs, and girdle-cakes of various kinds, as well
as more substantial dainties, according to the inhabitant's means of regaling the passenger,
descended rather too exuberantly on Donald MacLeish in the shape of mountain dew. Poor Donald!
he was on such occasions like Gideon's fleece--moist with the noble element, which, of course,
fell not on us. But it was his only fault, and when pressed to drink DOCH-AN-DORROCH to my
ladyship's good health, it would have been ill taken to have refused the pledge; nor was he
willing to do such discourtesy. It was, I repeat, his only fault. Nor had we any great right
to complain; for if it rendered him a little more talkative, it augmented his ordinary share
of punctilious civility, and he only drove slower, and talked longer and more pompously, than
when he had not come by a drop of usquebaugh. It was, we remarked, only on such occasions that
Donald talked with an air of importance of the family of MacLeish; and we had no title to be
scrupulous in censuring a foible, the consequences of which were confined within such innocent
limits.

