The next Sunday the minister preached a temperance sermon, in which he said some dreadful things
about snakes. The creatures do seem in some dark, horrible way to lurk in the dregs of strong
drink: but the minister was not discriminating; he was too fierce and sweeping, saying, among
other things, that there was a universal human hatred for snakes, and that one of the chief
purposes of the human heel was to bruise their scaly heads.

I was not born of my Quaker mother to share this "universal human hatred for snakes"; but I
did get from her a wild dislike for sweeping, general statements. After the sermon I ventured
to tell the preacher that there was an exception to this "universal" rule; that all snakes
were not adders and serpents, but some were just innocent snakes, and that I had a collection
of tame ones which I wished he would come out to see.

He looked astonished, skeptical, then pained. It was during the days, I think, of my "probation,"
and into his anxious heart had come the thought, Was I "running well"? But he dismissed the
doubt and promised to walk over in the morning.

His interest amazed me. But, then, preachers quite commonly are different on Monday. As we
went from cage to cage, he said he had read how boa-constrictors eat, and wouldn't I show him
how these snakes eat?

We had come to the cage of the little ribbon-snake from the picnic grove, and had arrived just
in time to catch him crawling away out of a hole that he had worked in the rusty mosquito-netting
wire of the cover. I caught him, put him back, and placed a brickbat over the hole.

I knew that this snake was hungry, because he had had nothing to eat for nearly a week, and
the frog which appeared so mysteriously with him in my hat was the dinner that he had given
up that day of his capture in his effort to escape.

The minister looked on without a tremor. I took off the brick that he might see the better.
The snake was very long and small around and the toad, which I had given him, was very short
and big around, so that when it was all over there was a bunch in the middle of the snake comparable
to the lump a prime watermelon would make in the middle of a small boy if swallowed whole.

While we were still watching, the snake, having comfortably (for a snake) breakfasted, saw
the hole uncovered and stuck out his head. We made no move. Slowly, cautiously, with his eye
upon us, he glided out, up to the big bunch of breakfast in his middle. This stuck. Frantically
he squirmed, whirled, and lashed about, but in vain. He could not pull through. He had eaten
too much.

There was just one thing for him to do if he would be free: give up the breakfast of toad (which
is much better fare according to snake standards than pottage according to ours), as he had
given up the dinner of frog. Would he sell his birthright?

Perhaps a snake cannot calculate; perhaps he knows no conflict of emotions. Yet something very
like these processes seemed to go on within the scaly little reptile. He ceased all violent
struggle, laid his length upon the netting, and seemed to think, to weigh the chances, to count
the cost.

Soon he softly drew back into the cage. A series of severe contortions followed; the obstructing
bunch began to move forward, up, farther and farther, until at last, dazed, squeezed, and half
smothered, but entirely alive and unhurt, the toad appeared and once more opened his eyes to
the blessed light.

The snake quickly put his head through the hole, slipped out again, and glided away into his
freedom. He had earned it. The toad deserved his liberty too, and I took him into the strawberry-patch.

The minister looked on at it all. Perhaps he didn't learn anything. But I did.

I

It was a late June day whose breaking found me upon the edge of the great salt-marshes which
lie behind East Point Light, as the Delaware Bay lies in front of it, and which run in a wide,
half-land, half-bay border down the cape.

I followed along the black sandy road which goes to the Light until close to the old Zane's
Place,--the last farm-house of the uplands,--when I turned off into the marsh toward the river.
The mosquitos rose from the damp grass at every step, swarming up around me in a cloud, and
streaming off behind like a comet's tail, which hummed instead of glowed. I was the only male
among them. It was a cloud of females, the nymphs of the salt-marsh; and all through that day
the singing, stinging, smothering swarm danced about me, rested upon me, covered me whenever
I paused, so that my black leggings turned instantly to a mosquito brown, and all my dress
seemed dyed alike.

Only I did not pause--not often, nor long. The sun came up blisteringly hot, yet on I walked,
and wore my coat, my hands deep down in the pockets and my head in a handkerchief. At noon
I was still walking, and kept on walking till I reached the bay shore, when a breeze came up,
and drove the singing, stinging fairies back into the grass, and saved me.

I left the road at a point where a low bank started across the marsh like a long protecting
arm reaching out around the hay-meadows, dragging them away from the grasping river, and gathering
them out of the vast undrained tract of coarse sedges, to hold them to the upland. Passing
along the bank until beyond the weeds and scrub of the higher borders, I stood with the sky-bound,
bay-bound green beneath my feet. Far across, with sails gleaming white against the sea of sedge,
was a schooner, beating slowly up the river. Laying my course by her, I began to beat slowly
out into the marsh through the heavy sea of low, matted hay-grass.

There is no fresh-water meadow, no inland plain, no prairie with this rainy, misty, early morning
freshness so constant on the marsh; no other reach of green so green, so a-glitter with seas
of briny dew, so regularly, unfailingly fed:

    Look how the grace of the sea doth go
    About and about through the intricate channels that flow
          Here and there,
              Everywhere,
    Till his waters have flooded the uttermost creeks and the low-lying lanes,
    And the marsh is meshed with a million veins!

I imagine a Western wheat-field, half-way to head, could look, in the dew of morning, somewhat
like a salt-marsh. It certainly would have at times the purple-distance haze, that atmosphere
of the sea which hangs across the marsh. The two might resemble each other as two pictures
of the same theme, upon the same scale, one framed and hung, the other not. It is the framing,
the setting of the marsh that gives it character, variety, tone, and its touch of mystery.

For the marsh reaches back to the higher lands of fences, fields of corn, and ragged forest
blurs against the hazy horizon; it reaches down to the river of the reedy flats, coiled like
a serpent through the green; it reaches away to the sky where the clouds anchor, where the
moon rises, where the stars, like far-off lighthouses, gleam along the edge; and it reaches
out to the bay, and on, beyond the white surf-line of meeting, on, beyond the line where the
bay's blue and the sky's blue touch, on, far on.

Here meet land and river, sky and sea; here they mingle and make the marsh.

A prairie rolls and billows; the marsh lies still, lies as even as a sleeping sea. Yet what
moods! What changes! What constant variety of detail everywhere! Here, to-day, the sun was
blazing, kindling millions of tiny suns in the salt-wet blades; and instead of waist-high grass,
there lay around me acres and acres of the fine rich hay-grass, full-grown, but without a blade
wider than a knitting-needle or taller than my knee. It covered the marsh like a deep, thick
fur, like a wonderland carpet into whose elastic, velvety pile my feet sank and sank, never
quite feeling the floor. Here and there were patches of higher sedges, green, but of differing
shades, which seemed spread upon the grass carpet like long-napped rugs.

Ahead of me the even green broke suddenly over a shoal of sand into tall, tufted grasses, into
rose, mallow, and stunted persimmon bushes, foaming, on nearer view, with spreading dogbane
blossoms. Off toward the bay another of these shoals, mole-hill high in the distance, ran across
the marsh for half a mile, bearing a single broken file of trees--sentinels they seemed, some
of them fallen, others gaunt and wind-beaten, watching against the sea.

These were the lookouts and the resting-places for passing birds. During the day, whenever
I turned in their direction, a crow, a hawk, or some smaller bird was seen upon their dead
branches.

Naturally the variety of bird life upon the marsh is limited; but there is by no means the
scarcity here which is so often noted in the forests and wild prairies of corresponding extent.
Indeed, the marsh was birdy--rich in numbers if not in species. Underfoot, in spots, sang the
marsh-wrens; in larger patches the sharp-tailed sparrows; and almost as wide-spread and constant
as the green was the singing of the seaside sparrows. Overhead the fish-hawks crossed frequently
to their castle nest high on the top of a tall white oak along the land edge of the marsh;
in the neighborhood of the sentinel trees a pair of crows were busy trying (it seemed to me)
to find an oyster, a crab--something big enough to choke, for just one minute, the gobbling,
gulping clamor of their infant brood. But the dear devouring monsters could not be choked,
though once or twice I thought by their strangling cries that father crow, in sheer desperation,
had brought them oysters with the shells on. Their awful gaggings died away at dusk. Besides
the crows and fish-hawks, a harrier would now and then come skimming close along the grass.
Higher up, the turkey-buzzards circled all day long; and once, setting my blood leaping and
the fish-hawks screaming, there sailed over, far away in the blue, a bald-headed eagle, his
snowy neck and tail flashing in the sunlight as he careened among the clouds.

In its blended greens the marsh that morning offered one of the most satisfying drinks of color
my eyes ever tasted. The areas of different grasses were often acres in extent, so that the
tints, shading from the lightest pea-green of the thinner sedges to the blue-green of the rushes,
to the deep emerald-green of the hay-grass, merged across their broad bands into perfect harmony.

As fresh and vital as the color was the breath of the marsh. There is no bank of violets stealing
and giving half so sweet an odor to my nostrils, outraged by a winter of city smells, as the
salty, spray-laden breath of the marsh. It seems fairly to line the lungs with ozone. I know
how grass-fed cattle feel at the smell of salt. I have the concentrated thirst of a whole herd
when I catch that first whiff of the marshes after a winter, a year it may be, of unsalted
inland air. The smell of it stampedes me. I gallop to meet it, and drink, drink, drink deep
of it, my blood running redder with every draught.

II

I had waded out into the meadow perhaps two hundred yards, leaving a dark bruised trail in
the grass, when I came upon a nest of the long-billed marsh-wren. It was a bulky house, and
so overburdened its frail sedge supports that it lay almost upon the ground, with its little
round doorway wide open to the sun and rain. They must have been a young couple who built it,
and quite inexperienced. I wonder they had not abandoned it; for a crack of light into a wren's
nest would certainly addle the eggs. They are such tiny, dusky, tucked-away things, and their
cradle is so deep and dark and hidden. There were no fatalities, I am sure, following my efforts
to prop the leaning structure, though the wrens were just as sure that it was all a fatality--utterly
misjudging my motives. As a rule, I have never been able to help much in such extremities.
Either I arrive too late, or else I blunder.

I thought, for a moment, that it was the nest of the long-billed's cousin, the short-billed
marsh-wren, that I had found--which would have been a gem indeed, with pearly eggs instead
of chocolate ones. Though I was out for the mere joy of being out, I had really come with a
hope of discovering this mousy mite of a wren, and of watching her ways. It was like hoping
to watch the ways of the "wunk." Several times I have been near these little wrens; but what
chance has a pair of human eyes with a skulking four inches of brownish streaks and bars in
the middle of a marsh! Such birds are the everlasting despair of the naturalist, the salt of
his earth. The belief that a pair of them dwelt somewhere in this green expanse, that I might
at any step come upon them, made me often forget the mosquitos.

When I reached the ridge of rose and mallow bushes, two wrens began muttering in the grass
with different notes and tones from those of the long-billed. I advanced cautiously. Soon one
flashed out and whipped back among the thick stems again, exposing himself just long enough
to show me stellaris, the little short-billed wren I was hunting.

I tried to stand still for a second glimpse and a clue to the nest; but the mosquitos! Things
have come to a bad pass with the bird-hunter, whose only gun is an opera-glass, when he cannot
stand stock-still for an hour. His success depends upon his ability to take root. He needs
light feet, a divining mind, and many other things, but most of all he needs patience. There
are few mortals, however, with mosquito-proof patience--one that would stand the test here.
Remembering a meadow in New England where stellaris nested, I concluded to wait till chance
took me thither, and passed on.

This ridge of higher ground proved to be a mosquito roost--a thousand here to one in the deeper,
denser grass. As I hurried across I noted with great satisfaction that the pink-white blossoms
of the spreading dogbane were covered with mosquito carcasses. It lessened my joy somewhat
to find, upon examination, that all the victims were males. Either they had drunk poison from
the flowers, or else, and more likely, they had been unable to free their long-haired antennæ
from the sticky honey into which they had dipped their innocent beaks. Several single flowers
had trapped three, and from one blossom I picked out five. If we could bring the dogbane to
brew a cup which would be fatal to the females, it might be a good plant to raise in our gardens
along with the eucalyptus and the castor-oil plants.

Everywhere as I went along, from every stake, every stout weed and topping bunch of grass,
trilled the seaside sparrows--a weak, husky, monotonous song, of five or six notes, a little
like the chippy's, more tuneful, perhaps, but not so strong. They are dark, dusky birds, of
a grayish olive-green hue, with a conspicuous yellow line before the eye, and yellow upon the
shoulder.

There seems to be a sparrow of some kind for every variety of land between the poles. Mountain-tops,
seaside marshes, inland prairies, swamps, woods, pastures--everywhere, from Indian River to
the Yukon, a sparrow nests. Yet one can hardly associate sparrows with marshes, for they seem
out of place in houseless, treeless, half-submerged stretches. These are the haunts of the
shyer, more secretive birds. Here the ducks, rails, bitterns, coots,--birds that can wade and
swim, eat frogs and crabs,--seem naturally at home. The sparrows are perchers, grain-eaters,
free-fliers, and singers; and they, of all birds, are the friends and neighbors of man. This
is no place for them. The effect of this marsh life upon the flight and song of these two species
was very marked. Both showed unmistakable vocal powers which long ago would have been developed
under the stimulus of human listeners; and during all my stay (so long have they crept and
skulked about through the low marsh paths) I did not see one rise a hundred feet into the air,
nor fly straight away for a hundred yards. They would get up just above the grass, and flutter
and drop--a puttering, short-winded, apoplectic struggle, very unbecoming and unworthy.

By noon I had completed a circle and recrossed the lighthouse road in the direction of the
bay. A thin sheet of lukewarm water lay over all this section. The high spring tides had been
reinforced by unusually heavy rains during April and May, giving a great area of pasture and
hay land back, for that season, to the sea. Descending a copsy dune from the road, I surprised
a brood of young killdeers feeding along the drift at the edge of the wet meadow. They ran
away screaming, leaving behind a pair of spotted sandpipers, "till-tops," that had been wading
with them in the shallow water. The sandpipers teetered on for a few steps, then rose at my
approach, scaled nervously out over the drowned grass, and, circling, alighted near where they
had taken wing, continuing instantly with their hunt, and calling Tweet-tweet, tweet-tweet,
and teetering, always teetering, as they tiptoed along.

If perpetual motion is still a dream of the physicist, he might get an idea by carefully examining
the way the body of till-top is balanced on its needle legs. If till-tops have not been tilting
forever, and shall not go on tilting forever, it is because something is wrong with the mechanism
of the world outside their little spotted bodies. Surely the easiest, least willed motion in
all the universe is this sandpiper's teeter, teeter, teeter, as it hurries peering and prying
along the shore.

Killdeers and sandpipers are noisy birds; and one would know, after half a day upon the marsh,
even if he had never seen these birds before, that they could not have been bred here. For however

    candid and simple and nothing-withholding and free

the marsh may seem to one coming suddenly from the wooded uplands, it will not let one enter
far without the consciousness that silence and secrecy lie deeper here than in the depths of
the forest glooms. The true birds of the marsh, those that feed and nest in the grass, have
the spirit of the great marsh-mother. The sandpiper is not her bird. It belongs to the shore,
living almost exclusively along sandy, pebbly margins, the margins of any, of almost every
water, from Delaware Bay to the tiny bubbling spring in some Minnesota pasture. Neither is
the killdeer her bird. The upland claims it, plover though it be. A barren, stony hillside,
or even a last year's corn-field left fallow, is a better-loved breast to the killdeer than
the soft brooding breast of the marsh. There are no grass-birds so noisy as these two. Both
of them lay their eggs in pebble nests; and both depend largely for protection upon the harmony
of their colors with the general tone of their surroundings.

I was still within sound of the bleating killdeers when a rather large, greenish-gray bird
flapped heavily but noiselessly from a muddy spot in the grass to the top of a stake and faced
me. Here was a child of the marsh. Its bolt-upright attitude spoke the watcher in the grass;
then as it stretched its neck toward me, bringing its body parallel to the ground, how the
shape of the skulker showed! This bird was not built to fly nor to perch, but to tread the
low, narrow paths of the marsh jungle, silent, swift, and elusive as a shadow.

