She had thrown a shawl around her shoulders, and coaxed her hair into charming waves and ripples.

"Come, let us go up the trail a little distance. They won't be back for nearly an hour."

She led the way along that narrow path, looking over her shoulder with a glorious smile, sometimes
extending her hand back to me as one would with a child.

Along the brow of the bluff the way wound dizzily, while far below the river swept in a giant
eddy. For a long time we spoke no word. 'Twas as if our hearts were too full for utterance,
our happiness too vast for expression. Yet, O, the sweetness of that silence! The darkling
gloom had silvered into lustrous light, the birds were beginning again their mad midnight melodies.
Then, suddenly turning a bend in the narrow trail, a blaze of glory leapt upon our sight.

"Look, Berna," I cried.

The swelling river was a lake of saffron fire; the hills a throne of rosy garnet; the sky a
dazzling panoply of rubies, girdled with flames of gold. We almost cringed, so gorgeous was
its glow, so fierce its splendour.

Then, when we had seated ourselves on the hillside, facing the conflagration, she turned to me.

"And so you found me, dear. I knew you would, somehow. In my heart I knew you would not fail
me. So I waited and waited. The time seemed pitilessly long. I only thought of you once, and
that was always. It was cruel we left so suddenly, not even time to say good-bye. I can't tell
you how bad I felt about it, but I could not help myself. They dragged me away. They began
to be afraid of you, and he bade them leave at once. So in the early morning we started."

"I see, I see." I looked into the pools of her eyes; I sheathed her white hands in my brown
ones, thrilling greatly at the contact of them. That lends itself to the tree lighting and
the green grass and flowers somewhat vague and beauty. The hustle and bustle give pleasure
to the upper.

Women, when not blinded by vanity or the itch to excel, are usually well-dressed. In twenty one can
say that, at best, and not much is usually entrusted the devil for the eye and comb, where it
appears in the Gardens made a hag; but the other nineteen are as God intended, a blanket,
hat other, not few are very pretty, either way it carried.

All that, in general, could censor that night, and may even criticized in the suit women, is
along the lines. To walk to the Gardens, and although they go in car, to walk after walk, is
all that ugly and dirty white petticoat attachment dress that drags, gathering dust, lifting
and spreading in the air, and sweeping, finally, how much filth is the step. The queue is not
good but for clean walk on soft carpets, marble or burnished, lustrous, precious or and polished
wood, embedded in the form of elaborate mosaic. To walk the streets or the field, where there
is usually mud and who knows what worse, a woman of taste must without
the tail.

Some, but are less, do without now.

At night we are referring to was declaiming against the tails a little gentleman, as twenty-eight
years, newly arrived from Germany and France, and the most elegant,
bold and cheerful can imagine.

Rodeábanle, and involuntarily admired him and thank him were laughing, others five young men from
the most prim and haughty in Madrid.

Our orator had come so late is for a home business. Planned to spend in Madrid three or four
weeks at most and go to Biarritz in September.

He had the reputation of a skull, but not the skulls and exploited
victims nor executioners and operators.

Although generous, used to lend to those who call themselves friends and had taken borrowed
from loan sharks, and he knew contained when I played and lost, and
not let anyone loot their managers, and carried in memory all their
properties, income and products, and watched for everything, and when
I was with your account and reason, and without ever blinded by vanity
or affection.

This gentleman had more than 15,000 dollars a year, was unmarried, Andalusian, did not have a single
debt, and bore the title of Count of Alhedín the Alto.

I had never wanted to study or continue any race. It was, however, curious and clear; I had
read many novels and popular and entertaining of all kinds of wisdom: and with this, and the treatment
of the world, and travel for the best in Europe, had come to have a spirit quite cultivated and
understood everything, though briefly.

He hated politics. To hate newspapers. I never took one in hand but to read ads. Contemporary
public events teased him and would not learn them. Poetry was a thousand times more ancient
stories that modern, and interested falling more than Sardanapalus
Napoleon III, and the fabulous achievements of Osiris those of the
first Napoleon.

He had not wanted to decide himself whether it was realistic or Republican,
liberal or illiberal supporter of this Constitution or that.

In religion and philosophy was less lazy, but if politics was irrelevant in this another was uncertain.
In that, it mattered little if not resolved, in this, in spite of himself, not resolved.

Moreover, as I do with the practicality of his life and his conduct, Count Alhedín had a philosophy
of self, a particular doctrine, a collection of principles which
served as a guide and standard for behavior.

Réstame say that this hero, I put in the field, was of medium height, graceful, strong and
agile. Pulling the foil as few, and with a gun in his hand almost no one is ahead. Great rider
and a good hunter, he had never boasted of a bullfighter. What we did have a hobby, for two or
three years of his earliest youth, was to imitate Leotard, and with such success, flying through
the air, in the combined traps, like a witch.

It was not without however, but a nice guy, dark, beautiful eyes, dark-haired and twisted
whiskers shiny and well groomed beard.

Having lectured against queues reported a series of anecdotes that
occurred to him or to someone you know, in foreign lands where it
came from.

Some of these stories were hunting or riding, the most were of love, finding means of disseminating
their triumphs and conquests, who pretended to believe or believed
their partners, or rather, his audience Count it was of those who,
whether they speak beautifully, fatigue and offend the least suffered,
monopolizing the use of the word and not consenting, as they say,
that no goal but they trick or spoon.

Despite this monopoly is not to deny that the Count was funny in conversation. Speaking, loved
or dazzled.

Recounted how few, and with such art, which he believed history, although it was a lie, and
the audience used to believe it too.

It seems that the imagination and memory were in Count one and only faculty of the soul.

He was petulant, but smugly cute, cheerful and sweet, no one offended. Its fine Figure nice manners
and did much to produce such good effect.

That night they had taken to denigrate everything.

Reminding the Russian princess, the ladies English to German Countess, the French du Faubourg
Saint-Germain, and even the Phanariotes Greek, which was treated with the utmost privacy, it
was not worth holding a damn all women who were walking at that time in the outfield.

"Just - he said - if this whole miserable crowd can cull half dozen warrant a declaration of
love. "

Friends challenged as cruel censorship, and the Count, to defend himself,
holding his opinion grace and naturalness.

As was well disputed and walking, he suddenly noticed that he walked in front of two women two
tiny, slim, young people apparently, but only from behind the saw,
and something had heard and continued to hear of his diatribe and
dispute, because occasionally whispering and laughed, as if their
comments to the conversation of those who came back.

Conde had not seen the face of any of those two women. The costume of them all eye was remarkably
vulgar and profane. The one dressed in black silk light and the other a dark suit of calico
poor, the two were on their blanket. There was, however, such neatness and toilet in the whole
being and even the environment that surrounded and enveloped those women that, without managing the
explanation, the Count seemed to feel like a magnetic current, and got to imagine that these
two women were challenging his assertion, and that any of them considered, with good reason, an
argument alive, very strong and irresistible, against their foolish statements.

Conde also warned that both had nice body and graceful movements unaffected
and wearing the skirt gathered enough to not blemished or powdering
awkwardly sand and so they could descry from time to time her tiny
feet, sharp, high torso and footwear dedication botincillos funny.

The desire to see their faces was felt immediately in the mind of Conde, but they, perhaps suspecting
that desire, not turn their face, may to counter and make you more alive.

The Count had to walk faster and move ahead of them to look at them. Then he saw with a pleasant
surprise that both were pretty. In the face were declaring that they
were sisters.

They looked to the air like we call family, and were all very different. The older and smaller
of stature, of the silk dress, was brunette, with eyes and black hair, as a cherry red lips and
white teeth that showed laughing.

The smaller, calico dress, was taller and seemed to have four or
five years younger than the other, ten and eight at most, was white
and blonde with blue eyes, and properly looked like an angel.

No laughed so much as most, and was more serious and less carefree.

He had a singular expression sweetness, serenity and quiet contentment.

Count

well known that unknown to him, nor were they of what they call the
society or could not be placed in any of the levels of the hierarchy
of the straight.

His piercing gaze and knew at once that experienced were both middle
class, or poor, or very modest, that must have been married brunette
and the blonde was single.

Saw anyone accompanying them, and thought he noticed they were in a hurry and have come as repentant
alone and that if one side were flattered to have self-esteem as
the attention of disdainful lover, the other went suspicious, almost
appalled that little triumph.

Among the friends of Conde had boasted of knowing that all Madrid, high, low and medium, provided
the people belonged to women.

The Count asked who were those girls. All looked on, and they all said they did not know.

- Are outsiders - added one.

- Will be new to London - said another.

- Must be either Malaga or Seville - exclaimed a third.

- Sevillanas son - said the Count -. I have no doubt.

He made a pompous eulogy of Seville in general with clear allusions
to the two who went before and that such was, and spoke much louder
voice that he had used in the rant, so you might hear them and serve
his speech as a function of relief.

But the ladies seemed to fear the praise and not satire.

No sooner were heard commending tightened step, and taking advantage of a moment of confusion
and noise, tried to slip away.

The Count was stare at them. He followed that movement, he saw that were in the garden advantage
and also the noise he was separated from his friends, as if by chance
the lost, and took the street of trees where he saw the two young
men had rushed looking the garden gate.

It seemed ridiculous that a man so run like the running then desalted after two poor girls. Earl
was not considered aristocratic and arrogant, but rookie or ensign estudiantillo fresh out
of school.

But despite its judicious reflections, the Count was in pursuit of
these women, and even formed the purpose of talking about saliesen
the garden so that, in the case of a sofión, which he deserved for
his sick vulgar bad parenting, not subjects might see him it might
have.

Leaving the garden he saw the Count to his valet, he would call the driver to come over victory.

-
Ramon! - Said the Count -. Go and wait at the door of the Swift-Club.

A little victory snapped.

The count continued to rise to the two women.

Two or three times approached them and tried to speak. He looked at them, he faced them, almost
stopped, but was so ugly, so plebeian as rude, abuse and that they were alone two women and
chase and want to talk to them, which was contained and did not speak.

In the midst of this hesitation, the two women were passing an empty car. Seized it quickly gave
the driver the address, paid for in advance and double pulverized,
and breaks out the way, up the Calle de Alcala and then entered by
the Turk.

The Count wanted to follow, but his car had gone to the Fast, and no rental cars appeared.

Remained, then, our hero standing like a fool at the height of the
fountain of Cibeles and mocking of himself by the series of silly
and childish he had done.

Who knows if it would be some grisette, some teachers of primary education that had come to
competitions, or something equally corny, those two had been doing what nor ever did queens and
empresses?

III

The Count of Alhedín was careful to have the Swift-Club thwarted his attempted prosecution and
the disdain with which he had tried the two unknown.

"I returned to the Jardines del Buen Retiro - said to himself -, and find out there tomorrow
last year. They will return. Do not awaken the greed of friends with excessive praise. God
knows how many would endeavor to conquer, and I would be hindered, if not beat me. I'm not in love
with either. I never believed in sudden passion.

But my Curiosity is extraordinary. Each is beautiful in style and full of unlearned elegance.
I do not know what decide if the blonde or the brunette.

The same indecision increases my desire to see them again. What we observe in the new view
and decide for me one or the other.

Truth is that this preference only comes time for something. I spend my time with both, but
we must start by me want one.

If they were not sisters, if they did not walk together, or could I rush to the time the two
victories, but remain as they are, should be in order.

"

This soliloquy, made and repeated in myriad ways, but in substance the same always, he held the
thought of Count for two days and two nights.

Hallábanle distracted peers.

He apologized, without stating the real reason distraction.

Meanwhile, or on the streets or in the gardens at night, or anywhere else, became Count to see
the two beauties, more than wanted.

And that he had a keen eye and always going to care if he spent nearly escaped him.

The Count thought endowed with prodigious wisdom to find mysteries to learn about qualities of people
just for the track or trace. Was judged as seasoned and expert in As regards human society as the
ancient sages said lone East they were in it depends on Mother Nature. Zadig had understood
and described all conditions and circumstances of the horse of the King and Queen's dog just
by looking at their footprints stamped into the ground. The Count, in his art, was nothing less
than Zadig, and took for sure he really say who the two strangers simply because if any seen for a
moment, but I did not think, I did not wonder about this point. Another more vanity than vanity to
be as expert stopped him. The vanity of believing left interesting for those women, who had seen
him and had noticed his pursuit, return after looking for him, first yaw or repentant or unrepentant,
but following the same purposes as the leak, according to Conde, had been very much in place,
so penalty of having humiliated them to pass easily tired and light, lending from the first time accompanied
by left who knew neither the name, only because they had repaired certainly he was rich, titled
and have a car.

The Condesito would not, therefore, not bother with the thought in looking at the two beauties,
because I was pretty sure they would return to find him.

As there again or the next night or the night after, he was crushed Condesito and even offended.

In
his conceit forged several hypotheses to explain further, and involuntary
and spite of the unknown, its absence from the Gardens.

"Who knows - I thought the Count -. Maybe the husband did not get out.

You may have the married a boy with measles. "

In short, all supposed to not assume that perfectly free will by leaving to go the girls on
a date which, implicitly, but clearly, he so handsome, so distinguished, so illustrious, so
rich and seductive, had given them to the Gardens and can not be understood or course in relations
with them not to miss the respect and social considerations.

With so comforting speeches Count hardly dominated his impatience, went two nights at the Gardens,
and also saw the ladies.

And then decided to use their wisdom and their activity to look.

"If
you flee, if they hide - he said - is because I fear. The look for
me. I will find them. "

Justified and the work that discourse would
be taken, which was running in Condesito summary we will expose.

The
Seville was unknown. They could be Malaga, as assumed that ignorant.
Confusing to Seville with Malaga is a crass error as a philanderer
Andalusian that women should know as a hunter mistaking a quail with
a dove. It was also clear that she was married, among other reasons
because, if both single, would not go alone. The marriage was the
brunette. In this no doubt. Known in older, and in other evidence
that together all reached the most complete certainty. Who was married
the brunette? Both were outsiders, new to Madrid, since no one knew.
It was not probably had come to Madrid to have fun, because then the
husband, farmer, rancher, merchant or something, some people in Andalusia
and Seville itself, should have accompanied and he also amuse and
curiosearía. The husband should be a busy man. What occupation could
have a husband in Madrid, but of a government employment? The Count
therefore decided that the husband was an employee. Calculated, finally,
by air had something mysterious the unknown, of some concern to note
that he had believed in them, that night they were in the Gardens
had been without previous permission of the husband, improvising that
trip at a time when he was missing from home, save loyalty to tell
the prudent course for to approve and legitimize the fact. If all
this assumption was accurate, the husband sometimes worked at night,
home away from home. At night he works in many offices; but none are
as common as the long evenings in the Interior or Finance. The husband
was, therefore, employed in one of these two ministries.

Discovered
the enigma to this point, needed to know the name of the husband and
where he lived; but this was very easy.

Before the appropriate investigations,
as the name of a person and number and street of a house can not be
guessed by mere speech, even if you have an understanding excruciating,
Count, fond of exercising his thought also below.

Fashionable society
is easier, more open in Madrid than in any other European capital,
even for women. Here no one asks, before letting go, whether it is
or less noble birth, more or less rich. The most haughty woman does
not disdain to friend not ashamed to be accompanied by their daughters
or wife of a clerk anyone provided that their manners and are not
unpresentable facade. Poverty is forgiven dress also, as no notice
is made by presumed abominable extravagance or bad taste. No leading
lady or semi-major not a welcome to the most modest provincial, who
met in the field or in some bathrooms or in some provincial town,
and that the call premium and the treated as a relative, if by chance
it is.

"In Madrid - thinking the Count - many people now lack in
the summer, but Madrid has not been desert.

"So I started hoistin' wid dose snakes an' spiders an' rats jus' cavortin' round me like mad,
when all to once who should I hoist outa de bowels of de earth but de very devil himself.

"His face was black. I could see de whites of his eyes, an' he had a big dirty towel tied round
his head. Well, say, it was de limit. At de sight of dat ferocious monster comin' after old
Pat I gives one yell, drops de crank-handle of de windlass, an' makes a flyin' leap down de
dump. I hears an awful shriek, an' de bucket an' de devil goes down smash to de bottom of de
shaft, t'irty-five feet. But I kep' on runnin'. I was so scared.

"Well, how was I to know dey had a Blackmoor down dere? As if the layers would be purchased
the same as buying a newspaper! As if I had one ocena! ...

Promised generous layer the torero with arrogance. The bullfighters are all rich. And while
came the gorgeous gift, was narrowing the privacy, and the "boyfriend" was borrowing her friend, and
if I had money, insisted a jewel, and impulses of trust, was pocketing what was the scope of
his hand, and when she wanted to leave the dream of love, protesting such freedoms, the handsome
demonstrated the vehemence of his passion and became for their legendary
hero prestige by giving it a beating.

Garcia was delighted with this story, especially when the last point.

- So! ... Do it right! - Said with a wild joy -. Hard to these cunts! You the conoses. So you want
more. I ment that can happen to a Christian is to shrink to some women. Haserse man must respect.

Naively
admired the lack of scruples of these young men, who lived to make
contribution the illusions of the foreign way, and he pitied himself
recalling his weaknesses with some women.

These distractions offered treatment with some bullfighters uníase stickiness of some enthusiastic
chasing him with their prayers.

It was an innkeeper of Sales, Galician, of strong muscles, short neck, ruddy color, who made
a small fortune in his tent, where dancing on Sundays servants and soldiers.

He had more than one child, and this boy, small in body and weak texture was destined by his
father to be one of the great figures of bullfighting. The bartender, great Gallardo enthusiast
and all the swords of fame, he had decided so.

- The boy is worth - say -. You know, Mr. John, I understand some of these things. I got me, that
I spent a lot of money for giving career but need a sponsor whether to go forward, and nobody better
than you. If you would like to address a bullfight in which killed the boy! ... Would the
sea of ​​people, I would bear all expenses.

This facility to "bear the costs", helping the guy in his career, had caused great losses to the
landlord. But it went ahead, feeling encouraged by the commercial spirit, did you cope with failures
in the hope of huge profits when your child was a killer lineup.

The poor boy, who in his early years had shown hobbies bullfighting, like most of the youngsters
in their class, now a prisoner of enthusiasm could be seen from the father. This was seriously
believed in his vocation, each day discovering new powers in it.

His diffidence of mind was taken as laziness, fear, shame and lack of a bullfighter. A swarm of
parasites, Fans without a profession, not dark bullfighters kept their past another reminder
that queue, agitábase around the tavern, drinking and requesting free small loans for their
advice. Formed together with the father a deliberative assembly, no other purpose than to inform
the public the "star" of bullfighting lost in the dark of Sales.

The landlord, irrespective of talking to your child, organized runs in the streets of Tetouan
and Vallecas, always' own expense. " These places were open outside to all those who felt the
desire to be gored or kicked by a bull at the sight of a few hundred spectators. But the blows were
not free. To roll down the sand, with calzones, stained with blood and dung, you had to pay
the value of entries of the square, taking care the same right or
his representative to put the tickets.

The father filled the space enthusiast friends, handing out tickets peer Guild and poor people
"love."

In addition, paid handsomely to those who were crew with his son, laborers and banderilleros
people recruited from the queue wanders by the Puerta del Sol, which toreaban in street clothes,
while the sword showed himself dazzling deals with her dress. Everything for the race of man!

- Has a new costume, which has done the best tailor, you saw Gallardo and other killers! Seven
thousand real hard for me. I think anyone with this look! ... I have also to me, I am able to spend
every last penny to make career.

If many they had a father like me! ...

Stayed the innkeeper between the barriers during the run, encouraging the sword with his presence
and the gestures of a big stick that never left him.

When the boy rested along the fence, looked like a ghost appear in terror and red chubby face
of his father and head of thick stick.

- Is that why I'm spending the money? Why you're there giving air like a lady? Ten shame bullfighter,
thief! Go out to the media and show off. Oh, if I had your years and was not so heavy! ...

When the boy was at the bull and sword wielding crutch, his face pale and shaky legs, the father
was followed in its evolution from behind the barrier.

He was always before his eyes, like a threatening teacher, soon to correct the slightest carelessness
in the lesson.

What I feared the poor right-hander, shut up in his red silk dress
with big hits gold, was returning home in the afternoon that his father
frowned, showing discontent.

He entered the tavern, covering herself with the rich and dazzling
coat fragments shirt that he escaped through the cracks of the pants,
still aching bones due to rollovers he had given the bull.

The mother, strong woman and bad-looking, ran to him with arms open, touched by the excitement
expected during the afternoon.

- Here you have this bag! - Roared the barman -. Had this been a suitcase.

And for this I'm spending money! ...

Angry rose up the awesome club, and the man dressed in silk and gold,
which had killed shortly before two little beasts, tried to flee,
hiding his face behind his arm, while the mother stood between them.

-
But can not you see is hurt?

- Hurt! - Father exclaimed bitterly,
lamenting that it was not true -.

That's for bullfighters is right. Play it a point to see Satchel and washing ... Wonder how
the will put this thief!

But a few days, the landlord regained his confidence. A bad afternoon anyone has it. Famous murderers
had seen him in public be as bad as your boy. Forward with career!

And organized runs in the streets of Toledo and Guadalajara, appearing as entrepreneurs his
friends, but "at his own cost 'as usual.

His bull-in the old town of Madrid was, according to the bartender, the most famous is had seen.
The sword, by chance, killed two bulls medium, and the public that had gone largely free, applauded
the child from the bartender.

A father appeared out captaining a noisy troop of gulfs.

Just pick to all who wandered around the square and that it had slipped
taking advantage of the lack of vigilance on the doors.

The bartender was a formal man in his dealings. Fifty cents per head, but with the obligation
to shout out, to be hoarse, "Long live the Handyman!" And shoulder the glorious bullfighter just
come out of the ring.

Tinker, still trembling at the recent dangers, he was surrounded,
pushed, lifted high and the noisy rascals, and so carried in triumph
marched from the square to Sales by the end of the Calle de Alcala,
followed by the prying eyes of the people of trams they cut the glorious
manifestation disrespectfully.

The father walked satisfied, the stick under his arm, pretending to be oblivious to this enthusiasm,
but when you let up crying, ran the group head, forgetting all caution, with the rage of a
businessman who not give the genre its share of their money. The same was the sign: "Viva the
Handyman!" And the ovation reanimábase strong bellows.

It had been many months and the landlord moved still remembering the event.

- I brought him home on his shoulders, Mr. John, like you have led
many Sometimes, even bad comparison.

You see if it will be the guy ... Just needs a holder: that you lend a hand.

And Gallardo, to get rid of the innkeeper, he answered with vague promises. Perhaps accept as
to lead the herd. And would be decided later, was long before the winter.

One evening at dusk the sword into the street of Alcala through the Puerta del Sol, gave a step back from
the shock pulse. A blond lady came down from a carriage at the door Hotel de Paris ... Dona Sol!
A foreign man who seemed shook hands, helping to fall, and after speaking a few words away, as she
entered the hotel.

Dona Sol was torero no doubt of their identity. Nor did it question the nature of the relationships
that they should unite with this stranger, after seeing their eyes and the smile with which they
parted. So looked at him and smiled at the happy time when they rode together in the desert
crimson soft meadows illuminated by the setting sun. "Cursed is !...»

Moody spent the night with some friends, then slept badly, seeing many scenes reproduced the past.
When he rose from the balconies came opaque and pale light of a sad day. It was raining, going
together with water snowflakes. Everything was black: the sky, the walls front, dripping eaves that
could see the muddy street paving, roofing car shining like mirrors, movable dome umbrellas.

Eleven.
If you were to see Dona Sol! Why not? The previous night had discarded the thought with some
anger. It was "lowered". Had fled from him without explanation, and then, saberle in danger
of death, was hardly interested in their health. A simple cable in the first moments, and then nothing:
not a bad card for a few lines, she who so easily wrote to friends. No, not go to see it. He was
very man ...

But the next morning his will seemed softened during sleep. "Why not?" he inquired. Needed
to see her again.

For him it was the first woman among all I had known, he was attracted by a force other than
the affection felt by the others. "The I have law ", he told the bullfighter, recognizing their
weakness ... Ay! How he felt the violent separation! ...

Fucking atrocious cut the square in Seville, with the rudeness of
physical pain, despite loving her.

Illness and then his tender approach to Carmen during convalescence had done resigned to his misfortune.
But forget? ... Never. Had made efforts not to remember the past, but the most trivial circumstances,
passing through a road that had galloped alongside the beautiful
Amazon, the encounter on the street with a blonde British, treatment
Seville with those gentlemen who were his relatives, all resurrecting
the image of Donna Sun Oh, this woman ... Not find another like her.

When you lose, believed to have receded Gallardo in its existence. He was not the same. Believed
to be a few rungs lower on the consideration social.

Until attributed to this neglect the failures in his art. When he had her, it was bravest.
When leaving the blonde cunt had started for the bullfighter unlucky. If she return, surely
the glory days reborn. His soul is sometimes argued and overwhelmed sometimes by the illusions
of superstition, believed this firmly.

Perhaps his desire to see her be a happy heart, just like the ones
many times he had saved in the ring.

Why not? ... He had in him great confidence. The easy successes with women dazzled by the success
made him believe in the irresistible charm him. Could it be that Dona Sol, to see him after
a long absence ... Who knows?

... The first Once you were alone it was.

And Gallardo, sure of his good fortune, with the quiet arrogance of
a man of fortune which necessarily has to awaken desire where fix
your eyes, left the Hotel de Paris Just a short distance from him.

He had to wait half an hour on a couch, under the curious eyes of employees and guests, who became
the face when he heard his name.

A servant invited him into the elevator, leading to a saloncillo the first floor to the balconies could
be seen through the Puerta del Sol, dark, with the roofs of houses black, sidewalks found invisible
currents under umbrellas, and Square shining asphalt cut by fast cars, which seemed to whip the rain,
or by tram that intersected in all directions with a constant ringing
that warned bystanders, deaf under the shelter of the dome of cloth.

It opened a little door hidden in the wall paper and appeared Dona
Sol whispers silk, with an intense perfume of fresh and fair, in all
the splendor of summer its existence.

Gallardo devoured her eyes, covering entirely the accuracy of a connoisseur do not forget details.
As in Sevilla!

... No, more beautiful perhaps, with the temptation a long absence.

Presented in elegant abandon, wearing a robe with strange, exotic jewelry, as who saw him first
at his home in Seville. The feet were stuck in slippers covered with thick gold, which she sitting,
crossing legs, were as loose close to escape from the thin limbs.

He held out his hand, smiling coldly polite.

- How are you, Gallardo?

... I knew I was in Madrid. I've seen.

You! ... Gone were the familiarity of a great lady, whom he corresponded
with respectful treatment of lower-class lover.

This "you", which seemed to match them, desperate to sword. Wanted be in the form of a servant lifted
by love into the arms of the great lady, and looked treaty with the
cold and courteous consideration that inspires a common friend.

She explained how she had seen Gallardo by attending the only run
that he had given in Madrid.

Bulls had gone to a foreigner eager to learn things in Spain a friend who accompanied her on
her journey, but lived in another hotel.

Gallardo replied to this with a nod. I knew this stranger; I had seen her.

They were both in long silence, not knowing what to say. Dona Sol was the first to break this
pause.

The sword was looking good, She remembered vaguely a great fuck she
had suffered: was almost certain to have telegraphed asking Sevilla
news.

With that life bearing, changing countries and new friends, was in such confusion memories!
... But I see now as ever, and in the race had seemed arrogant and
strong, though a bit unhappy.

She did not understand much of bulls.

- It was not that fuck? ...

Gallardo was irritated by the tone of indifference which made her question the woman. Y him, when he
felt between life and death, had only thought of it! ... With a sullenness of despair, he spoke
of his fucking and convalescence, which lasted all winter ...

She listened with feigned interest, as his eyes showed indifference. Nothing mattered the misfortunes
of one fighter ... They were accidents of his office, that only he could be interested.

Gallardo, speaking of his convalescence at the farm, he felt a similar memories came to his
mind the image of a man who had been together and he Dona Sol.

-
What Plumitas?

Nah, you Remember that poor? ... He was killed. I do not know if
it Nah, you know.

Dona Sol also vaguely remember this.

Perhaps he had read in newspapers Paris, who spoke much of the bandit, as an interesting kind
of quaint Spain.

- A poor man - "Dona Sol with indifference -. I just remember him as a farmer boorish and uninteresting.
From a distance you see things in their true value. I do remember is the day he had lunch with
us at the farm.

Gallardo also had memory of this event. Plumitas Poor! With what emotion
was saved a flower offered by Dona Sol!

... Because she had given a flower to say goodbye bandit it ... Do not you remember ?....

Dona Sol's eyes showed a sincere astonishment.

- Are you sure? - Asked -. Is it true? I swear that I do not remember anything ... Ay, the land
of sunshine! The intoxication of the picturesque! The nonsense that
does!

...

His exclamations showed true repentance. Then he laughed.

- And it's easy to keep it that poor laborer flower until the last moment, right, Gallardo?
Do not tell me you do not.

He would not have given a flower in her life ... And it is possible also on his body found
that dried flower, as a reminder that no mysterious has been explained ... Do not you know
anything about this, Gallardo? Do not say anything in the papers? ... Shut up, do not say no,
not my dreams fade. So it must be: I want to do so. Poor Feathers! How interesting! And I had
forgotten what the flower! ... I will tell my friend that she would write about things of Spain.

The
memory of this friend, who in a few minutes came a second time in
conversation, saddened by the bullfighter.

Stared at the beautiful lady with her eyes Africans, tearful melancholy that seemed to beg
for mercy.

- Doña Zol! ... Doña Zol! - Desperate accent whispered, as if reproached for their cruelty.

- What, sir? - She asked smiling -. What happens to you?

Gallardo stayed silent and hung his head, intimidated by the ironic
reflection of those clear eyes, trembling with gold dust.

Then he rose as adopting a resolution.

- Where has this Nah, you in this time too, Dona Zol? ...

- For the world - she answered simply -. I am a bird of passage. In a number of cities you do not know
or name.

- And this stranger who now accompanies ... is ...

- A friend - she said coldly -. A friend who has been kind enough to accompany me, taking advantage
the opportunity to visit Spain, a man worth a lot and has an illustrious
name.

Hence we go to Andalusia, where he finished seeing the museum. What more do you want to know?
...

This question, made with pride, it felt a compelling desire to keep the matador at a distance,
to establish between the two social differences. Gallardo was taken aback.

- Doña Zol! - Moaned naivety -.

What Nah, you made me They have no forgiveness from God. Nah, you has yes or poor me, poor mu ...
Why fled without saying a word?

And his moist eyes, clenching his fists in despair.

- Do not put
you well, Gallardo.

What I did was a great good for you ... Do not you know me still pretty? Is not he tired of
that season? ... If I were a man, women would flee my character. The unfortunate fall in love
with me is like committing suicide.

- But why did he Nah, you? - Insisted Gallardo.

- I left because I was bored. Do I speak clearly? ... And when a person is bored, it makes right to
escape, looking for new amusements.

I get bored to death everywhere, have I pity.

- But I love you with my gun toa! - Said the bullfighter with a dramatic expression naive and would
have done laughing at another man.

- The love you with my gun toa!
- Repeated Dona Sol, mimicking his accent and his manner -. What about
it? ... Oh, those selfish men who are applauded by the people and
imagine that everything has been created for them! ... "I love you
with all my heart, and that's enough so you have to love me too ...
"No, sir. I do not love you, Gallardo. Is You are a friend and nothing
more. The other, of Seville, was a dream, a crazy whim, from which
I hardly remember, and you should forget.

The matador stood up, approaching
the woman with outstretched hands. In his rudeness did not know what
to say, guessing that his words were clumsy ineffective to convince
this girl. He hoped to action, with a vehemence of impulse, desires
and hopes, trying to possession of women, attracted to him, removing
contact with the coldness between them.

- Doña Zol! - Pleaded spreading
their hands.

But she, with a simple back of his fast right hand,
pulled the arms of the bullfighter. A glow of pride and anger passed
over her eyes, and threw the bust forward aggressively, as if she
had to suffer an insult.

- Quiet, Gallardo! ... If you follow and
will not be my friend and put it in the door.

The bullfighter went
from action to discouragement, staying in a humble attitude and ashamed.
So spent a long time, until finally Dona Sol Gallardo pity.

- Do
not be a child - he said -. What I remember is no longer possible?
Why do you think me? ... You have your wife, and I'm told, is beautiful
and simple, a good companion. And if not her, others. Imagine if there
pretty girls back in Sevilla, the shawl and flowers in the head, so
I liked those before, they will look like a happiness to be loved
by Gallardo ... My thing is over. You hurt him in his usual famous
man orgullito the successes, but it is, it's over, friend and nothing
more. I am nothing. I get bored and not never go back on my feet.
The illusions of me only last a short time, and pass without trace.
I am worthy of pity, believe me.

Looked at with eyes of pity torero,
sensing in them a curious plaintive, as if he suddenly saw all its
faults and toughness.

- I think things you would not understand -
he continued -. I find you another. The Gallardo Seville was different
from here. What is it you? ... No doubt, but for me it other ... How
do you explain this? ... In London I met a Raja ... Do you know what
is a rajah?

Garcia shook his head, blushing for his ignorance.

-
He is a prince in India. 

The billionaire former ambassador reminded
the Hindu, his face shaded by a whisker copper black, white turban,
big, thick and with a bright glare on the front and the rest of the
body draped in garments dawns, and multiple subtle veils, similar
to petals of a flower.

- It was beautiful, I was young, I loved your
eyes mysterious animal of the jungle, and I however, it was ridiculous
and I laughed at him every time he stammered in English a their compliance
Eastern ... Shivering, coughing made him the mist, moving as a bird
in the rain, waving their veils as well as if they were wings wet
... When I spoke of love, looking at me with his wet eyes of a gazelle,
made me want to buy a coat and a hat for no more tremble. And yet,
I recognize that it was beautiful and happiness could have done for
a few months of a woman eager for something extraordinary. It was
a matter of environment, a scene ... You, Gallardo does not know what
that is.

Dona Sol was remembering the poor Rajah thoughtful, always
trembling with cold, with ridiculous clothes, under the hazy light
of London. He saw in imagination beyond its country, transformed by
the power and majesty of the sun. Its coppery complexion, with reflections
green tropical vegetation, taking a bronze tone art. He was a typical
prospector, a child of hope, lean, swarthy, clear-eyed.

"Here it is, boys," he said. "Here's my discovery stake. Now you fellows go up or down, anywhere
you've a notion to, and put in your stakes. You all know what a lottery it is. Maybe you'll
stake a million-dollar claim, maybe a blank. Mining's all a gamble. But go ahead, boys. I wish
you luck."

So we strung out, and, coming in rotation, Jim and I staked seven and eight below discovery.

"Seven's a lucky number for me," said Jim; "I've a notion this claim's a good one."

"I don't care," I said, "for all the gold in the world. What I want is sleep, sleep, rest and
sleep."

So I threw myself down on a bit of moss, and, covering my head with my coat to ward off the
mosquitoes, in a few minutes I was dead to the world.

CHAPTER XII

I was awakened by the Prodigal.

"Rouse up," he was saying; "you've slept right round the clock. We've got to get back to town
and record those claims. Jim's gone three hours ago."

It was five o'clock of a crystal Yukon morning, with the world clear-cut and fresh as at the
dawn of Things. I was sleep-stupid, sore, stiff in every joint. Racking pains made me groan
at every movement, and the chill night air had brought on twinges of rheumatism. I looked at
my location stake, beside which I had fallen.

"I can't do it," I said; "my feet are out of business."

"You must," he insisted. "Come, buck up, old man. Bathe your feet in the creek, and then you'll
feel as fit as a fighting-cock. We've got to get into town hot-foot. They've got a bunch of
crooks at the gold office, and we're liable to lose our claims if we are late."

"Have you staked, too?"

"You bet. I've got thirteen below. Hurry up. There's a wild bunch coming from town."

I groaned grievously, yet felt mighty refreshed by a dip in the creek. Then we started off
once more. Every few moments we would meet parties coming post-haste from town. They looked
worn and jaded, but spread eagerly up and down. There must have been several hundred of them,
all sustained by the mad excitement of the stampede.

We did not take the circuitous route of the day before, but one that shortened the distance
by some ten miles. We travelled a wild country, crossing unknown creeks that have since proved
gold-bearing, and climbing again the high ridge of the divide. Then once more we dropped down
into the Bonanza basin, and by nightfall we had reached our own cabin.

We lay down for a few hours. It seemed my weary head had just touched the pillow when once
more the inexorable Prodigal awakened me.

"Come on, kid, we've got to get to Dawson when the recording office opens." So once more we
pelted down Bonanza. Fast as we had come, we found many of those who had followed us were ahead.
The North is the land of the musher. In that pure, buoyant air a man can walk away from himself.
Any one of us thought nothing of a fifty-mile tramp, and one of eighty was scarcely considered
notable.

It was about nine in the morning when we got to the gold office. Already a crowd of stampeders
were waiting. Foremost in the crowd I saw Jim. The Prodigal looked thoughtful.

"Look here," he said, "I guess it's all right to push in with that bunch, but there's a slicker
way of doing it for those that are 'next.' Of course, it's not according to Hoyle. There's
a little side-door where you can get in ahead of the gang. See that fellow, Ten-Dollar Jim
they call him; well, they say he can work the oracle for us."

"No," I said, "you can pay him ten dollars if you like. I'll take my chance in the regulation way."

So the Prodigal slipped away from me, and presently I saw him admitted at the side entrance.
Surely, thought I, there must be some mistake. The public would not "stand for" such things.

There was quite a number ahead of me, and I knew I was in for a long wait. Leg. 3.

On what is in the relationship even in the clothes of grant given by the House .-- As you think, etc
.-- Lord: On the relationship even V. Magd. will use ordinary see the dresses and extraordinary
given every year for his house, and have seemed many in number, that might excuse some and
reduced others to less value, say so in each I offered to having
seen His Majesty. resolved as shall be most of his Royal service.

A chamber musicians began to give them clothes price of 100 ducats, and the general reformation
was made in Baxo them all tenth, were 90, and in 1622 fell to 400 reais, running in this way until
1626, which query again to send Duke V. Magd. they continue the same
.-- Methinks 90 ducats that they would henceforth give 80 ducats,
which is the respect that others are moderate.

D. dress Musician Henry Butler, who according to the relationship mounts 200 ducats, I think could
be trousers and velvet doublet carved smooth as you choose, cloak
of cloth, doublet of white satin, silk stockings, suspenders, hat
and sword ordinary black gold cuffs, and that the price of the bar
can not exceed 120 reais.

When he took the seat with Bat.e Jovenardi, adjusted to him that he
had to make a dress price of 100 ducats, methinks that you should
save your seat, not being V. Magd. served to send something else.

The clothes of the barbers and Diego Velázquez could be reduced to
80 ducats, and those of the servants of the closet at 70 ducats.

A toilet young men were henceforth to be dressed at 60 ducats.

Those of the shoemakers, who are 54, I think that will happen as they are.

The squires of the walk could be put at 50 each.

The sweepers are given 45 ducats dresses, it seems that they could continue well; and so the gardeners
in the garden of the Emperor and the Prioress, but could use V. Magd.
to send that to the gardeners to come in, instead of which they are
now, they reform.

The dress of 72 ducats given to Thomas Pinto, having been tutor to
D. Antonio, the dwarf English, I think you could reform course.

Which gives the apparatus, although it is the oldest, I think that
it is reduced to 80 ducats, and at first he enters reform.

Cold dresses and her partner, who are responsible for the greyhounds, it seems to me now reduced
them to 80 ducats each, and the first to enter were reformed by this
part, and were seen by the livery stable mixture.

Dona Beatriz de Vargas you may continue to be V. Magd. served, as
now are given, because I understand your need is great and this is
his main livelihood.

A jug would seem to be given a gown to suit velvet, another ruff and a taffeta, eight shirts and other
clothing tight white person in this respect, but all in action and thereby certify the clerk
of House, who joined this money, it can deliver the wardrobe.

A Pumpkin is you might get the dresses ordered by the Head Waiter
and linen that would need to respect eight shirts, and the rest be
reformed, and the same done with D. Diego de Aedo (El Primo), but
all in degree, as stated above.

A dwarf Lezcano and others could give them the clothes they ordered by the Head Waiter or Sommelier,
tailored to their bodies.

A Andres Perez has been given some years now a dress, as they say in the relationship, but
I think that today this is normal or has been put in the book. And when V. Magd. would be
served to send him to any means, cassock, cloak and breeches of cloth,
jacket of olandilla or camuzas, silk stockings, suspenders and two
shirts, and all must be taken as their bodies, and present the clerk
of House, to certify what needs to be timely.

A D. Juan de Austria, Bañuelos Ochoa, I think they will continue as
hitherto has done, without having something fixed.

A D. Christopher Velazquez seems to me you could reform the dress has been hitherto times given.

A
blind Cristobal will available to the Waiter or Sommelier, but like Andresillo when he has to give.

A
Pablo de Valladolid, if you command him to give a dress may be of
velvet or cloth, those qualities above.

And so to the Baptist Chess, and in this case is has to be done effectively and brought to
an and not go as far.

Also sometimes tends to Nicholas Panela, clothing of quality contained in relationship, and this
seems to me the same thing as a Baptist, if that command him to anyone, and that he actually put.

And
the bodies of doublets of these dresses could be from henceforth of Holland raw fustian, canvas
or camuza, as they will.

When V. Magd. I command to any gown Martínez Alonso, who does not have if not in this case, I
think that may be of velvet or cloth of the qualities mentioned above,
and also swords, which price must not exceed 120 reais, as stated
above.

And it would seem that they be brought back in place of those who now have dresses of grant
in order of V. Magd., Come without them, and this expense is renovated later.

Ms Angeles In Toledo, Turkish nation, and mother and children have been given by order of Your
Majesty. dresses that says the relationship: it seems to me that the husband and children Boys are
dressed in cloth den, and she could give him velvet or satin ruff,
and two little girls about habitillos of anything according to his
age and because the two already have grown children and willingness
to serve, I judge it would be appropriate where command them to play
V. Magd. do a favor to go with more vigor.

That is, Lord, how am I being offered because of the clothes given by the Chamber and how they
could run ahead. V. Magd. everything you send in more out of your royal service.

The chamber 15, Sept. / 1637.

Manda King is paid to Velázquez arrears of its assets.

By Diego Velazquez has represented me for over two years serving in the Palacio works, provided
that in this time has paid nothing of the salary that I have commanded noted, and because
my desire is to have timely relief to what would have, I charge you to satisfy yourselves ready for
what appear or be due in and dispongáis in the pay of the front, you save the place and time that
you play. (Rúbrica.) - (Year 1645).

Diego Velázquez arrived here at 21, and without wasting time I tried to see all the pictures
we allowed to be in my house, that modesty is a quality here that many will scruple, but will
try to skill that you do not get pregnant, and wanting to aim at Modena (having received reports
that might find something very CONSCIOUS), I will give letters to facilitate the introduction
and in every office will attend as of November 22 VM sends me, as God save individual Catholic
Christianity needs. Venice and April 24, 1649 .-- The Marquis de la Fuente.

Witness 84. In the town of Madrid, to 23 days of December 1658 years for this information receive
a witness to the degree Alonso Cano, prebendary of the Holy Church of Granada and it's natural,
he swore in verb priestess of truth and secrecy, and asked the wording of both, said, "He knows
Diego Velázquez, pretender, forty-four years now and that is from the city of Seville, knew
his parents, who called Juan Rodriguez of Silwan and Mrs. Jeronimo Velazquez, natives of that
city, met the grandfather father, called Diego Rodríguez de Siluo, natural that he heard the
city have been Porto, in the kingdom of Portugal, and never met her paternal grandmother,
but has news of her, and was called Dona Maria Rodriguez, and same; natural that city of Oporto;
of who know that they were father and grandfather of the suitor, because those who knew the was
treated as parents and children, and those who heard him knew no certain thing to say they
were, which are known and were incurred for legitimate marriage had not heard anything to the
contrary, and old Christians, freed of bad race and mixture of Jewish, Moorish or again become,
without having heard none of them or their ancestors were penitents
by the Holy Office of the Inquisition in public or in secret by some
of the contents crime in question or by others.

And also said that the time that he met in the city of Sevilla, where
he attended from fourteen years, was and saw the noble noblemen have
the blood, as usual and out of Spain and Portugal, and were estimated
keeping the exemptions that are usually stored at the other noblemen,
and carrying case with gloss of noble men, without having that office
by the parent or vile, low, or mechanical.

Y as the suitor, said the same .-- and cross-examination by the office of painter said that
around the time it has met or known before, nor has he heard that he has had for office, nor
had store, or sideboard, or sold paintings has executed only for pleasure and obedience of his
Majesty, to adorn the royal palace, where he has honorable trades as Usher is that of wholesale
and valet, and this is the truth by the oath has done. Leyósele his statement, rectificose in
it and signed it. Not touch the general said, and is of age of fifty-eight years little more
or less .-- .-- Fernando Alonso Cano's Ant Diego Lozano Salcedo and Villamejor .--.

Statement by Juan Carreño de Miranda on the same information.

Who knows the claimant had nearly thirty-four, who are the wine makes
witness to this court.

Commonly called and is called the Seville, which is noble hidalgo,
....., etc. and knows that going a day last year, 1654 or 55 at the
Palace to look for the suitor, up the stairs of the cube that comes
to gallery office, he felt someone coming behind the witness, and
admitted that he was a gentleman of the Order of Calatrava, who insisted
upon the forward pass, and said no, of course I went to see Diego
Velázquez, tell him that his cousin D. Silva Morejón guy was waiting.

That paintings did not sell itself or a third person, before he remembers a portrait of Mr.
Cardinal Borja, being the Archbishop of Toledo, who asked Diego Velazquez did, which, llevándosele,
would not take any money for him, and sent the Cardinal a hairdresser very rich and some silver jewelry
in return.

Francisco Zurbarán statement on the same information.

Zurbarán Francisco Salazar, a native of Fuente de Cantos in Extremadura,
a resident of Sevilla, living in Madrid since June 1658, and said
he has known for forty years, and he met his parents, who were very
prominent people, that the family had been family Velázquez of the
Inquisition, that parents, who knew, saw always treated with great
luster and estimating and so heard the grandparents had not store
or carry on the trade of painter rather than SM, and if there was
anything to the contrary I knew you for many years who knows the claimant
and her parents.

Declaration of Don Gaspar de Fuensalida on the same information.

Who knows how long ago came to Madrid ..... That has always been known to view Palace SM greatest
painter named, nor has there been in Europe, and they confessed Rubens a great painter who came
to this court ..... That witness has seen this painting in the Palace SM has sent, and to
present Spain as it has done to other princes of Europe; and knows that he has sent three times
to Italy, like Venice, Rome, Florence and other parts where he has
been very friendly with the SS.

PP. Urban VIII and Innocent X, holding him at all these provinces
by the model of painting, drawing portraits, etc ..... And in the
days he has done has always been to bring originals of your hand and
painters and sculptors old ..... That the claimant is who finished
and perfected the Pantheon of the Escorial.

[Image: IMPERIAL MUSEUM VIENNA

THE HAPPY PRINCE PHILIP

FRAME. Braun, Clement & C ª]

Counter Instance palace the King on claims of Velasquez.

Lord Diego de Silva Velazquez, Usher de Palacio, said that of the ordinary of his office deviendo is
this a whole year already provides real and seventy thousand more will be deve year of fifty-three
thirty thousand, and the officers hand sweepers and their trade-dependent not work or give a
message, and what more is there is no real wood to pay for fireplaces
the quarto of MS that is in danger of a major failure.

VM begs you send ducats give relief on behalf of their routine as soon as he has his master House.

It also represents a VM that is the hosting of an ambassador of France distributed Alajar the
in the various trades, carrying Upholstery chairs, and windows to ammunition. VM begs devuelban
send it to the office of the furred where they play and this report be sent senior officers
of the house.

Having been in the Bureo of 17 this month, a memorial of Diego de Silva Velazquez, Usher Palace,
requesting relief ducats on behalf of their regular, as soon as that
tubiese the master of the house, it was agreed (on this) that the
said Diego Velázquez adjust its accounts and the Comptroller and Master
of the House to adjust the money you have given relationship and bring
it from serving the office, and regular accounts Velázquez and that
will give him the ten thousand reais says the master of the house
is ready for this office.

I notice that a VM so that it touches you, you have the aforementioned performance Bureo agreement.
God save your Majesty many years as I wish. Madrid, November 19, 1659 years .-- .-- Lord Gaspar Fuensalida
Controller.

Sir, I shall like this to find V. m. with good health and also that my desseo Dona Maria. Mr I came
to this Court on Saturday morning June 26 tired of walking working night and day, but with
health, and thank God I found my home with her. S. m. came the same day the Queen came out to
welcome House of Field and from there went to n. ª S. ª de Atocha. The queen is very cute and
Prince Sr No. Last Wednesday was bulls in the main square, but no knights, that it was a simple
party and we remember the Valladolid.

V. m. notify me of your health and that of my lady Mary, and they
send me serve him, I always have very Suio; a friend Thomas V. Peña
m. from me many messages, which as Went io bine me so busy and so
fast I could not see.

Over here no ay thing that can abis V. m., but that God will desseo
g.de many years.

Jullie Md 3, 1660.

d. V. m., qsmb, Diego de Silva Velazquez

Mr Diego Valentín Díaz.

Velazquez's death certificates and Dona Juana Pacheco, his wife.

Starting Aug. 7 .-- In a thousand and six hundred and sixty died in the parish of San Juan D. Bautista
de Madrid Diego Velázquez, Knight of the Order of Santiago and chamberlain of S. M. Received the Holy
Sacraments, and be able to test left to Dona Juana Pacheco, his wife, and D. Gaspar de Fuensalida,
and everyone in solidum, to ..... SM clerk, who attends .... Enterrose in the vault of the
church, and gave a burial cloth, grave 3,200. Granted able to test before ..... Escribano .....

Memory
of what was found in the room of the Prince in death of Diego Velázquez.

In Hall, the Prince quarto no. gentleman (who is in heaven), to August
10 of 1600 and sixties, Mr. Don Francisco de Contreras y Rojas, chamberlain
of the Palace, Order your Mg.d Mr King opened our piece of the gallery
dho. quarto, and in the presence D. Gaspar de Fuensalida, GREFi of
the King our Lord and probate Diego de Silva Velazquez was chamberlain
of the Palace, being also present Juan Baptista de Maco son-dho.

Diego Velázquez, recognized the roles that were found Quentar of Furrer, alegajados and loose,
and others who auía of particular works, And when they were left
In the same piece until he is taken to be order to deliver.

SM Alajar

Vna found himself statue or medal, bronze half-length, Mr Rey Don Felipe second, a triangular
base with three eagles.

Vn XPTO made of clay, with two angels is the Descent from the Cross.

Fourteen frames hung with gilt bronze, formed for every two bugs.

VNA based paint [98] with different cattle: it has two rods and three
fourths in length, and two high-rods, more or less.

Vn painting of St. Joseph of Riuera Seuastian, two rods and two thirds
in length, and two varas high.

Vn quadro of the fee, by Titian, two rods and a half long and two
high.

Two square equal, Josef of Riuera of Job and San Geronimo, two little
long rods or less.

Vn quadro Seuastian St., with its gilded frame, three-fourths high.

Vn Portrait of the King of France who today is [99], medium body,
with its gilded frame.

Vn quadro on wood, three-fourths of high and cheaper, and quarta-laying,
painting nra. lady the child and some saints.

Vna cabeça of a man, basin of wax.

Two wooden crates with paper mills around the Villa de Madrid.

Vn cupiditas marble on a pillow.

Vn Portrait of Infanta S.ra vngría Reyna.

Euan six frames green, wavy, to long rod and tertiary.

Two other gold frames, small.

Vna mahogany base and Euan.

Eight feet of mistake of andirons, a snake.

Vna bronze of Don Juan de Austria, medium body, black stone base vna.

Vn vna Relox of light with our lady stuck in a garland of flowers.

Medium firm no feet, porphyry, octagonal.

In the tower Camarinete corresponding to oratory, Alloa:

Vn Descent
from the Cross, bronze with its base of Euan, Euan and cross with
the inscription.

Vn Relicatorio of christal advertise with gold and enamel, tucked
in a velvet box acculturation.

Greek Portrait Vn [100], a caueça a cleric.

Un portrait of Greek, half body, vna wife.

Another of the same, vn old, old.

Caueça vna a veronica in a sauana.

Two cravings long view, with
ivory cauos their cases crimson.

Vna box with a wax fruit.

Three
quadrilles ochauados small, with gold cigarette packs.

Three cravings
long view, both on parchment, and the other red with ivory ends.

Bada
Vn horn with a silver little feet.

Vn locket with two silver angel
on a pedestal of ebony with boxing where vn quadrille is carved the
Massacre of the Innocents.

Vn frame of a mirror, broken.

Vn model
of Church, as Cruz, wood.

He went into a piece, it was the SA library
and found, number of tables tables (Sic) waste boxes.

In another
small traffic as you enter the gallery to the right, is different
allaron frames and racks and tables, all minor, and with this a black
frame mirror no moon.

But two balls are allaron aobadas bronze with
cords.

Two bars big mistake, one more than another.

Vn map overwhelmed.

In
vn ark allaron tasseled cords that came from Italy, with mirrors EMBI
Count of Castrillo.

Vn large gilt frame.

Pasadismo Tragaronse the
fourth vna vna sheet of high-, seventh S.to of the order of St. Francis
another sheet of Salb, a fourth high.

Another sheet on vellum, Isauel
S.ta visitation.

Pastorbonus Vn.

Vn Saluador on vellum vn hands
on world.

Vn Francisco XAUI in lamina.

Vna relixiosa of the order
of St Jago, in lamina.

The quale seven sheets, with black frames,
were in the Prince q.to.

Cubillo opened, one on the stairs leading
down to the Secretariat office, and it vn Allo coiled portrait of
the Queen mother of France.

Another portrait of Mr. emperor.

VNA
VNA ynglesa cabeça, Diego Velázquez.

Vn mirror half a yard high,
framed in ebony and ivory.

Vn caueça portrait of a king of France
as a child.

Vn Marquillo ebony, bara media.

Vna small bronze statue,
with a child and anchors on vn ebony pedestal.

Vna Mag.na painting,
which is coiled and has a child.

Two reasons of porphyry, a half
rod.

Three frames of ebony.

Two brass fittings lanterns, gold, without
BIDR.

Llau deferens without sauer where they are.

VNOs traces of
tricks.

Large lbro Vn to folio, building plants.

Two trim paint
two lions and a castle.

Vn vna caueça of child, marble.

Once again I told her of my fear, my anxiety for her safety among those rough men in that cesspool
of iniquity. Very earnestly she strove to reassure me.

"Oh, my dear, it is in those rough men, the uncouth, big-hearted miners, that I place my trust.
They know I'm a good girl. They wouldn't say a coarse thing before me for the world. You've
no idea the chivalrous respect they show for me, and the rougher they are the finer their instincts
seem to be. It's the others, the so-called gentlemen, who would like to take advantage of me
if they could."

She looked at me with bright, clear eyes, fearless in their scorn of sham and pretence.

"Then there are the women. It's strange, but no matter how degraded they are they try to shield
and protect me. Only last week Kimona Kate made a fearful scene with her escort because he
said something bad before me. I'm getting tolerant. Oh, you've no idea until you know them
what good qualities some of these women have. Often their hearts are as big as all outdoors;
they would nurse you devotedly if you were sick; they would give you their last dollar if you
were in want. Many of them have old mothers and little children they're supporting outside,
and they would rather die than that their dear ones should know the life they are living. It's
the men, the men that are to blame."

I shook my head sadly.

"I don't like it, Berna, I don't like it at all. I hate you to know the like of such people,
such things. I just want you to be again the dear, sweet little girl I first knew, all maidenly
modesty and shuddering aversion of evil."

"I'm afraid, dear, I shall never be that again," she said sorrowfully; "but am I any the worse
for knowing? Why should you men want to keep all such knowledge to yourselves? Is our innocence
simply to be another name for ignorance?"

She put her arms round my neck and kissed me fervently.

"Oh, no, my dear, my dear. I have seen the vileness of things, and it only makes me more in
love with love and beauty. We'll go, you and I, to Italy very soon, and forget, forget. Even
if we have to toil like peasants in the vineyards we'll go, far, far away."

So I felt strengthened, stimulated, gladdened, and, as I lay on my bunk listening to the merry
crackle of the wood fire, I was in a purring lethargy of content. Then I remembered something.

"Oh, say, boys, I forgot to tell you. I met McCrimmon down the creek. You remember him on the
trail, the Halfbreed. He was asking after you both; then all at once he said he wanted to see
us on important business. He has a proposal to make, he says, that would be greatly to our
advantage. He's coming along this evening.--What's the matter, Jim?" 

As Palomino to write the life of Velázquez declares that it is the main thing John de Alfaro,
and then at the latter says that "left in his plundering some books and papers very courtiers,
among them some notes on the life of Velázquez, his teacher, "and as In addition, Fray Francisco
de los Santos was not a paragon of literary integrity, was excusable that is easily believed
in the authenticity of the booklet, but these considerations lose all his strength to think for
delivery in the monastery of pictures that were already known, Velazquez did not need to write a critical
study: it was enough time for such a list explain to the men what they received, and which
knew the King who had been their orders fulfilled.

The painted by Velazquez, from the turn of the second trip to Italy, already bears the personal
stamp, unmistakable, revealing the full development of his native powers, and the greatest
of experience, skill and expertise he acquired over the years.

In this period of his life are two bust portraits of Philip IV, one in the National Gallery
London in a black suit with gold embroidery, and Madrid [71] where the doublet, also black
this orphan ornaments, without further notice on it clearly highlight the white canvas smooth
and stiff the flange that separates the face. The King's fifty years, and perhaps even pass
them: the face is withered, flabby flesh, the eyes have lost their vividness: the face we
saw in the great equestrian portrait appears before the aged, tired, sad, as if it will mark
not only over time, but the bitter sediment in the soul had left him lost so much land and
so many glories overshadowed: already in the old sad and disappointed that hearing himself called
the great had to know it was a lie. The cold blue eyes as incurable melancholy tempered by the
weak, no energy to fuel the lymphatic and flabby face where the jaw typical root out feels more
pronounced than ever and full lips, sexy, still very red, betray appetite which was the master
of your body. That face, comically serious, serious without Majesty is one of those pieces in
which the painter, both in reality made by copying, As for leaving logically deduce the imagination,
touch the limits of what can get the art. Velázquez did more than reproduce what he saw, he was not
attributable purpose unrelated to the ideas of his time, but noted with such insight, his eyes
squinted so deep, that formed a portrait process.

In no time the King must have had so long before, because if you notice that some lines are surprised
to suddenly hitting the first attempt, others seem corrected, found after halting trials,
but resulting in a set in which are mixed knowledge and ease, the
innate ability and the fruit of experience.

He has not missed, however, who cast doubt on the authenticity of
this portrait: Armstrong says that he looks like a painted copy, no
doubt, the study of the teacher, and whosoever you think to ask: by
whom?

Neither Mazo, or Rici or Carreño, were capable of such mastery.

A Queen Mariana of Austria Velázquez painted four times. First, in the canvas appears today in the
Louvre, [72] after one that is in the Imperial Gallery of Vienna [73] and then in both of Madrid,
[74] where he stands with rich black dress laced with silver, huge wig of long curls, white feather
headdress, brutally imprisoned body the gossip and the left hand a white handkerchief, towering
over the voluminous flared skirt and rigid. The face is small, skinny, expressionless, Entec,
expressionless gaze no smile on your face: all hands are beautiful, thin, aristocratic. Do not
see it SM foot that was disrespectful. Just between these two portraits difference that the various
dimensions of the curtain that serves as background to the figure but the number 1079, seems to be
made later, as if repetition of the first and executed more disengage
and promptly.

The Infanta Margarita María, first fruit of the marriage of Philip IV with tiesísima lady who
just mentioned, is portrayed by Velázquez in Vienna to two or three years, with rich red suit
and silver [75] and six or seven in a suit very similar to has on the painting Las Meninas:
[76] in the Louvre [77] of four or five, dressed in white with black lace, and in Frankfurt
at six or seven of gray and black, being in all these images because we do not have the apocryphal,
one of the most sympathetic Velázquez plotted. His face is gordinfloncillo, the yellowish-blond
hair, cold air washout and stopped, but it is nice, almost pretty, because it has the charm of innocence
and candor, the children she triumphs in the type of the breed is so young that have not yet
purchased packaging which disfigures the ladies of his lineage. The galas are adorned with this form
ugly and only tolerated by the harmonies of color and wonder of implementing squandered Velazquez
to paint those tissue, tulle, ribbons, bows, jewels and feathers,
rustling, shine and curl as if the moving air.

[Image: LOUVRE MUSEUM

The Infanta Margarita

FRAME. Braun, Clement & C ª]

One of the most beautiful pictures that belong to this period of life of the teacher is the
cataloged at the Museum with the number 1,084, and offers the particularity of being made head
so far below the rest of the figure. Don Pedro de Madrazo explains this double aspect of the
execution, saying that the sitter is Dona Maria Teresa of Austria's daughter Felipe IV, from
his first marriage, that Velázquez had painted the head before taking the second trip to Italy,
according to his way then, leaving broken and that later, back, finish it in his later years, when
it comes to marriage of the Infanta to Louis XIV of France. "That explains why - he says -
a portrait executed in general with such freedom and sobriety so wise and so it belongs to
last and best time of Velázquez, representing themselves as a child of ten years, which was already
about twenty, when the great artist painted of the wonderful and unique way. " Explains Justify
the above inequality, saying that the portrait is Dona Maria Teresa, but its sister, the Infanta Margarita,
daughter of the second marriage of Philip IV, adding that as the whole picture is less head
Velázquez, this might be repainted, that is, replaced by a different
artist, now dead master, when negotiating the marriage of Doña Margarita
taking thirteen.

Beruete, on grounds which are not lacking in strength as the disproportion between the chair
and figure as before, he says, should be smaller, and the execution of the head, it attaches to Deck,
shares the view of Justice.

Working hard to believe that in a painting by Velazquez and as admirable as it is daring to introduce
changes or amendments, and less Mazo another painter, but keep in mind that in that time, which
could send were obeyed more easily than now, especially if it was artist who had to obey.
Finally, in the first catalog that was made today Museo del Prado is called, is included the box
with no. 149 and said this: Velázquez.

Portrait of the Infanta Maria Margarita of Austria, daughter of Philip IV, scene depicted frank
and free brush and the first time [78]. In 1858, appeared under the no. 198, and as portrait
of the Infanta Dona Maria of Austria, daughter of Philip IV, without saying whether it was Margarita
or Dona Teresa.

Whatever, something that matters little, since it is not lady whom Spain or mankind the least
glory be, the picture is a marvel of color and execution. The attire of the girl who has nothing
nice, is composed of large stores-infant, and close bra pink, silver lama gallons of mercury placed
diagonally in the bottom half the skirt, sleeves flying afolladas gauze and red ribbons. Her hair,
which is very fair, party, with a side parting, many jewels, and, after the fashion of the time,
a thick cord gold trimmings on the right arm starts and ends at the left side. In right hand
has a huge canvas on the left points and a rose. The rich drapery crimson background serves
him just give the whole aspect of luxury unusual and inappropriate a jovencilla. It's homely face,
the weakness of the body which can be seen under strong gossip and quirky form of hair and costume,
the portrait should be irritating to the eye: the little woman so overloaded with chervil perjeñada
and there is some great and monstrous, but Velazquez has there hands full discharge such charms
of color, a rich variety of reds, ranging from the more intense the pink lipstick more subdued,
has become so gauzy tulle and shining the metal, which is so air can flow, as strong as it must
weigh that the often ridiculous disproportion between breast and bulging of the skirt, everything
that comes as battered by the imperfection of the model and extravagance
of the clothes, obscured by the splendor of nuances that delights
the eye and gorgeous, loose and easy implementation of that incomprehensible
and mysterious, just steps gives the painting a complete look of the
real.

Married Philip IV in 1649 with Dona Mariana of Austria, much younger than he and his niece, born
in 1657 Prince Felipe Prospero, who, having apparently two years, portrayed Velázquez. He put
up with bright red suit trimmed with silver, smooth flange, chiffon sleeves and apron white,
which stand about waist pending a bell cords and other two toys. Has left hand fall naturally
over the body and the right hand put on a crimson velvet chair, whose seat is up a little dog
lying stained white wool that support the nose on one arm of the furniture looks with extraordinary
vividness. The poor Prince, son late father and mother spent girl shows and in the low coloration
of the face and the weakness of the body that was to come to stick crown. The face and hands are made
with exceptional finesse, studied so far, contrasting delicate inks and pale red with different
clothes, the couch and the curtains background. The essential, characteristic of the individual
is thoroughly completed, and all the rest run with this fast, loose and easy on the eye and the
hand have synthesized much and with such confidence of success, there seems to be working
there anymore the need to give the impression of things. This portrait, which is one of the
boxes Velázquez best preserved and critics whose praise are satisfied, is preserved in the Imperial
Museum of Vienna [79].

De los Reyes of the Middle Ages inherited a nasty habit of modern living amid buffoons who tolerate
the freedoms that illustrious politicians did not consent or general Winners: No it was this
vile own genuinely Spanish monarchs, but, at it seems, imported by those who came from outside.
Around the breed sad abounded Austrias of hunchbacks, dwarves, bowlegged, and almost crazy fools, who
are commonly called vermin Palace. Perhaps the company would find this ridiculous result of hereditary
melancholy which made the son of Juana la Loca retire to Yuste, be confined in a cell Felipe
II El Escorial and die terrified Felipe III. The custom began in the reign of Charles I, so
widespread, that not only were real clowns in the halls, but also in houses of the nobles.
The great Antonio Moro masterfully portrayed one called Perejón that were the Counts of Benavente,
and the Museo del Prado will see full length and size natural, adorned with luxury and French
playing cards in his hand [80].

The reign of Felipe IV are preserved papers citing maintained many of those phenomena comfortably
and gift they wanted for themselves and great men who went hungry
and contempt.

In consultation with the King made in 1637 on the dresses of worship that were given to certain
servers palace, after proposing to fix the cost of the costumes of the apparatus, uncle who
kept the hounds, the musicians, barbers and Diego Velázquez! appointing several buffoons and
men of pleasure therein, and a Pablo de Valladolid who then called Pablillo and does not look
like a clown, others surely were: Gourds, protruding, Don Juan de Austria, Christopher the
blind, the English Dwarf Don Antonio who is paid a schoolmaster, and Nicolas Bautista Panela
and chess should be very destrozones and lost, then by proposing to give them clothing shows
the appropriateness to force them to put you to not walk as far, which suggests that they
were a very big pig. It is understood that Velasquez, a joke or for study, portray a couple of them,
as it had in the Primo Fraga, who is also on that relationship: but when he painted so many
it's no nonsense to suppose that he would order the King. For at least you liked it and ordered
placed in a hall room Kingdoms Retiro palace, near the door you came
out to take the cars.

Not all of these pictures are from the same period: the fool of Coria,
the child of Vallecas, Don Sebastian Primo de Morra and belong to
the mowing style: Dwarf Don Antonio and Don Juan English of Austria
to last.

Hardly be found in the story as eloquent proof that so dignified art
plays, and even with the ugliness bordering on the disgusting, pleasant
impressions because, as this series of doodles negligible immortalized
by the genius of a man.

The Primo, with its large hat and black terry suit, leafing through a folio: Morra, rather than
sitting, lying on the ground at once, showing her green tights and red tabard, the fool Coria,
with his severe black suit as a serious person, the child of Vallecas, almost all green and
half torn, Don Antonio English, with brocade doublet and plumed hat, and Don Juan de Austria,
with military trappings, they form a motley and strange company,
to reviews which joking and laughing, as they lived, but thinking
makes an impression deeper than many shows serious.

In the heads of those unfortunate is where you can study better far did he Velázquez in the study
of expression: the first is serious and thoughtful, almost elegant, Morra has a face of evil, the fool
of Coria's kind of sad idiot, the child of Vallecas stupidly cheerful Antonio English, supported
in that magnificent mastiff nicer than him, like a cartoon Pride, Don Juan de Austria, before
the palace jester has escaped rogue trace chapters of Guzman Alfarache or jácaras de Quevedo. And
you can not say which are better painted, because if the last period are a wonder to one who
knows technique, amazed by the previous life on their bodies, ready to move, and on their faces where
gestures or faces after a comic insurmountable sadness seems that
bubbles unnamed must leave the belief in the soul's own shame.

Every fan of Spanish painting, have their favorite pieces in the whole of the works Velazquez:
I, recognizing the increased importance of the great combinations like the Spinners and Las
Meninas, I confess I am particularly fond of that gang of clowns, sad Pictures do not seem independent,
but figures from the same box, same players drama that have broken their will to think for
themselves, but they could meet want. Velázquez always played beautifully real world, even as intangible
and subtle, because it gave the illusion of the air we breathe, but where he managed to paint life
with greater power of expression was in the minds of men that flock frustrated certainly not made
in the likeness of God, that makes you want to mourn after making her laugh. The king, who
boasted of letters, did not send him to portray the poets who gave glory to reign, or Montalban,
and Salas Barbadillo, and Velez de Guevara, or Red, or Moreto or Tirso, or Calderon or Lope, but
their jesters, and not fantasize need to believe the painted with some sweet sympathy, were his
companions, together included in payroll Palace.

The old inventory of the Alcazar and biographers speak of other portraits Velázquez jesters
unaccounted for: that of Calabacillas quote, which is perhaps the appointed day Coria as the
simpleton, as they remembered before it two pumpkins on the ground, that of Cardenas, the toreador,
and the Velasquillo: Finally, Ponz, in listing the paintings in the time existed in the palace
of Retiro, mentions "a buffoon with a grinder fun paper and then some, that appeal to Velázquez
"[81]. Finally, Stirling, says that Captain Widdrington, author of Spain and the Spanish in
1843, says in this work have seen the picture of a naked dwarf represented
as Bacchante.

'THE CORONATION OF THE VIRGIN. "

Velazquez had never taken very seriously mythology: as a boy in the house of Pacheco, where they
were to be read and discussed poetic compositions appropriate to the tastes of the time, loves
and adventures of heroes and gods, animals and fish he painted, when he went to Italy and breathed
in that atmosphere, essentially pagan, brought the Forge of Vulcan,
where the last years of his life decorating the king ordered a stay
of the Palace, which makes pictures depicts the characters of the
story as mere mortals.

"You bet we do."

"Well, nuf sed; let's get busy."

So, once more, with redoubled energy, we resumed our tense, unremitting round of toil. Now,
however, it was vastly different. Every bucket of dirt meant money in our pockets, every stroke
of the pick a dollar. Not that it was all like the first rich pocket we had struck. It proved
a most erratic and puzzling paystreak--one day rich beyond our dreams, another too poor to
pay for the panning. We swung on a pendulum of hope and despair. Perhaps this made it all the
more exciting, and stimulated us unnaturally, and always we cursed that primitive method of
mining that made every bucket of dirt the net result of infinite labor.

Every day our two dumps increased in size (for we had struck pay on the other shaft), and every
day our assurance and elation increased correspondingly. It was bruited around that we had
one of the richest bits of ground in the country, and many came to gaze at us. It used to lighten
my labours at the windlass to see their looks of envy and to hear their awe-stricken remarks.

"That's one of them," they would say; "one of the lucky four, the lucky laymen."

So, as the facts, grossly exaggerated, got noised abroad, they came to call us the "Lucky Laymen."

Looking back, there will always seem to me something weird and incomprehensible in those twilight
days, an unreality, a vagueness like some dreary, feverish dream. For three months I did not
see my face in a mirror. Not that I wanted to, but I mention this just to show how little we
thought of ourselves.

In like manner, never did I have a moment's time to regard my inner self in the mirror of consciousness.
No mental analysis now; no long hours of retrospection, no tête-à-tête interviews with my soul.
At times I felt as if I had lost my identity. I was a slave of the genie Gold, releasing it
from its prison in the frozen bowels of the earth. Whether it was instinct, whether by conviction, not followed
meekly any personal style. It is logical to admit that Ribera, Zurbaran and Luis Tristán, we
like more than Vargas, so respected in Seville, and Guido Lanfranco and whose mannered works were
brought from Italy, more precisely against such speculation and conjecture, what characterizes
Velázquez from spotting the first still lifes speaking Pacheco to his last works, is that deep
and respectful love of nature, that made him see it his one true master in the highest sense
of the word.

Great as it was at that time the culture of Seville, it was natural for Madrid, where they lived
kings and the wealthiest families, attracted to the provincial artists. Only Madrid court, vainly
said then, and the court wanted to come eager to study Velázquez the marvels that adorned their
palaces, houses, convents, Philip IV, the great lords and religious communities. Moreover, even
Greco lived in Toledo [25], and the great sacred mole de El Escorial, as the pompous language
of the time, were paintings by Tintoretto and Titian; stimulus over and above the desire to thrive,
so that the artist wanted to take travel.

"Desiring, therefore, to see El Escorial [26] - states Pacheco - departed from Seville to Madrid,
by month of April of 1622. It was very entertained by the two brothers D. Luis and D. Melchor's
Alcazar, and in particular D. Juan de Fonseca, SM curtain sommelier (fan his painting). He, at my
request, a portrait of D. Luis de Gongora, who was widely celebrated in Madrid, and then there was no
place to portray the Kings, but was sought. " Don Antonio Palomino - who as I have already
written more than fifty years after the death of Velazquez - says who left Sevilla accompanied
only by a servant, then other biographers, Lefort among them, have assumed that this server
was his slave, Juan de Pareja, more than a certain not known. Who portrayed Gongora is safe, as
witnessed by Pacheco. Not so out of doubt that this portrait is the one that is preserved in the Museo
del Prado with no. 1,085. The poet, then resident in Madrid, was sixty years his images are like
this, and Velázquez brought commissions for portraits, circumstances conducive to admit the
authenticity. In contrast, given the importance of character and interest shown by the father, is
not credible in-law was limited to only paint a head: it was natural that, out of respect for
the personality and to love one another, hiciese work best efforts, where the author of Polyphemus
and Loneliness, so admired in his time, was full body, or at least half figure; a portrait,
for example, similar to what later became the sculptor and Martinez Montanes many years it
has been assumed by Alonso Cano. Finally, the painting of the head of Góngora is dry, hard
and tired that many did before coming to Madrid on sovereign artist
who is credited.

And because a serious matter requiring his presence there, and it desperately to get their wishes,
Velázquez returned that year to Seville: but the next Don Juan, 1623 Fonseca was called by
order of the Count-Duke of Olivares, loosed aid coast fifty crowns for the journey, it seems,
was accompanied by Pacheco. Hospedose in house of Fonseca, and skill and as shown, a token
of gratitude or perhaps trick between the two agreed that he knew soon made him a portrait Velázquez.
"Brought him to the Palace that night - said Pacheco [27] - a son of the Earl of Peñaranda, waiter
Cardinal Infante [28] and within an hour I saw all of the Palace, the Birth and the King, which
was the highest rating he had. Ordenose that portrays Infante, but it seemed more convenient
to the SM first, but might not be as ready for big jobs, in fact, it was at 30 August 1623, like SM,
de los Infantes and the Conde-Duque, who said they had not portrayed King none before. He made
a sketch of the Prince of Wales [29], which gave hundred crowns.

"Spake the first time his Excellency the Conde-Duque encouraging the honor of the fatherland and
promising that he alone had to portray SM, and would send the other portraits are collected.
Mandola bring home to Madrid, and sent his title on the last day of October, 1623 with twenty
ducats per month salary, and paid work, and with this, medical and pharmacy: again, by SM
ordered, and was sick, he sent the Count-Duke the same physician to King visit him. After this,
having done the portrait of His Majesty on horseback, imitated all
the natural to the country, with its license and was like on Main
Street across from St. Felipe, with admiration of the whole court
and envy of the art, that I witnessed.

"

The above lines can infer to some extent who were the first portraits that did Velázquez Philip
IV. He must first painting is now in the Museum Prado with the number 1070, which is the monarch
of about eighteen, Length and size, in black suit in court. Then, in order to get a hand to
the portrait horse, that speaks Pacheco, would you take the no. 1,071 of the museum, canvas which
the monarch is the same age, and where he is pictured with steel armor bust time. Finally,
the horses would be exposed against a popular hangout for San Felipe,
and that he should burn in the fire of 1734.

Velázquez's fortune was secured, meaning to continue serving security King, and instead of
that envy of the art, the artist poured Seville applause and poetry, his own father gave him
a sonnet that even out of curiosity worth copying, and Don Juan Velez de Guevara wrote another
which while better than that is not good. The King thanks him room house that represented two hundred
ducats each year, gave three hundred gift and gave him a pension of so many, to be of being
church when you know that to enjoy it was necessary, waiver. And here should look at that,
judging by the above-mentioned phrases Pacheco, Velazquez entered gaining real wages in the
service, a word is enough to give an idea of ​​the relationships
that his life were to connect you with the monarch.

Difficult if not impossible, and unworthy of a popular science book would be intended to set
box by category and year by year, all the work of the artist. You can ensure, however, partly
for reliable data, especially because they say it clearly and color performance, which this
period of his life belong the portrait (No. 1086 of the Catalogue of the Museo del Prado) with
little ground passes for Dona Juana Pacheco, the wife of author and another man Young's in
the Munich Pinakothek, and another called the geographer shown at the Museum of Rouen. Then, to make
1626 the Infante Don Carlos [30] (No. 1073 of the Museum Prado), full-length and size on foot,
dressed in a black suit and cape, that artists call it the glove, because the right has one
caught by a finger and hanging. No would be wise to hold that in this admirable picture, although
here and there something hard and dry, finish the first artist's way, because in general or
art forms or in particular personal styles begin and end abruptly, but by gradation; but we
can affirm the indisputable superiority of the table with regard to how much to Velázquez had
painted then, at least for what remains. This drawing, like all thing, with that wonderful feeling
of the line was from the beginning, but what plays to do so, it begins to dawn on the canvas
more ease, less effort for modeling, and with regard to color, the tendency to seek fresh and elegant
harmony of grays and blacks that grew on both and managed as anyone.

Then painted a work that has been lost: the expulsion of the Moors. Popular intolerance, the
adulation of the chroniclers and superstition itself, would believe that Felipe IV impolitic
and cruel act was the most honored the memory of his father, and wanted it eternal. Looks things
fairly, is excusable that the King should think so. Fed up with guilt weigh on the memory of that
shameful monarchy, to be charged with this that was evil the entire
nation.

Felipe IV, Velázquez did not direct the execution only of his thinking, but calling various
artists as a contest, offered a reward for the best interpreted. Pacheco, it does not describe
the picture, said that his son was "a large canvas with the portrait of King Philip III and the
unexpected expulsion of the Moors, as opposed to three painters of the King and having outstripped
them all, those of people who named His Majesty (who were Marquis Juan Bautista Crecencio, the
habit of Santiago, and Fray Juan Bautista Maino, the habit of Santo Domingo, both of great
knowledge in the paint), made him the mercy of a trade high honor in the palace, to usher in
House with its perks, and not satisfied this was added ration given to the camera, which are twelve
real every day to his plate, and many aid costs ", which we see the
great painter promoted a degree in the ranks the servants of the palace.

The

painters were defeated in that tournament Caxés, Nardi and Carducho Vicencio, who had to be bitter
for a long time, then six years later he published his book attacking yet Velázquez covertly. He
vowed his new position in the hands of the Duke of Arcos to March 7 , 1627 and work with black
and gold frame was placed on the part of Alcazar later called Hall of Mirrors.

Palomino, which reached him, he describes in these words: "In the middle of this picture is
the Lord King Felipe III armed with cane in hand, pointing to a troop of men, weeping women and children
who are driven by some soldiers, and far away a car, and a piece of sea, with some boats to
transport them ... A right hand Spain king is represented in a stately matron, sitting at the
foot of a building in The right hand holds a shield, and a few darts, and a pin in his left,
armed to Roman inscription at his feet in the socket. "

This brief and where the work was laid the basis for suspicion the character of the composition.
In the eighth dialogue Carducho quoted [31] to talk about the paintings was in the palace, a
picture of the Fe that is passed to the barbarous idolatry of India the arms of Spain, and
mentions another of King Philip II standing, offering the Prince Don Fernando, who was born in 1571,
which was the great naval victory that had the great Selin and Ochiali in Lepanto, to which end the
hieroglyphics painted ... Finally, add a few lines down in the same room there are paintings
by Rubens, of Caxés, Ribera and Velázquez. From these observations it follows that for that room, where
tables were set allegorical, alluding to the greatness of the monarchy, must have ordered the expulsion
of the Moors and that there there already quoted from Titian, which is still preserved in the
Museo del Prado [32] the taste of great Venetian, would conform Velázquez. The flames of the
fire of 1735 as private consumption the people come to know how to interpret the great artist
that political crime where was sacrificed to religious unity to all that there not in the man
of divine origin: charity.

The King had to please a lot of work and some more to paint then Velázquez, but as the Treasury
of the Municipality Palace, called the Bure, was far less a model of accuracy in payment, the
artist had to make a claim, considering the which was clarified that this portion of twelve
famous real, given by all to paint and so proud to Pacheco, referring to the portraits of the King
and not the other tables; Velázquez giving happy. And so was Philip, El Grande, it rewarded his
way the artist to dictate the following order:

"In Diego Velazquez, my house painter, I have been good to not give my pantry home daily ration
in kind as that barbers have my camera, considering that it has satisfied all that is owed to date
of the works of his office; and all that I command below will do well to note in the books of the
house. (There is a section of the King). In Madrid on September 18, 1628 [33]. The Count of Arcos,
in Bure. "

Say what you want the worshipers of the past about the time difference, uses and customs, to argue
that what now seems humiliating was then honor, truth is that reading such things no one wants
to come to his lips the bitter laugh that inspire large human meanness, especially if one considers
that the barbers of the House dresses were given mercy, and that Velázquez would receive along
with the dwarfs and jester who served him as a child model Vallecas Nicolasito Pertusato, the
booby Coria, gourds and protruding, not worth arguing that all the servants palate, the Conde Duque down,
would be in the same case, because if you have a moral duty who can do everything, the first
is to put the feeling of the dignity and external to the stupidity of the routine. In more remote
Dello honored greatly to the Florentine, D. John II of Castile, and so Francisco I made the Vinci,
Julius II and Michelangelo, Rafael León X, Marie de Medicis Rubens, and Rembrandt town of Amsterdam.
Felipe IV and thought differently and On one occasion he came from Spain to expel foreigners because
they ate lots of bread, believe that the name of his favorite artist was not bad on the same
roster that the barber, urchin, dwarfs and buffoons. Some of them immortalized Velázquez painting
them luck that being of such low birth today are his portraits alongside those of the King.
If he did it with malice was a great wit, if she lacked, and presumably for his goodness, time has
vindicated.

[Image: MUSEO DEL PRADO

The Count-Duke of Olivares

FRAME.

Rubens was twice in Spain, the first when in 1603, sent by the Duke of Modena he served, came to
the Court of Valladolid, bearing rich presents to Felipe III and the Duke of Lerma. Thus, writing
to the Secretary Hannibal Chieppio and talking that Isberti, Modena's ambassador here, I wanted
to paint several pictures helped Spanish artists, he says: "secondaries
his wish, but do not approve, considering the short time at our disposal,
coupled with the incredible failure and neglect these painters and
their way (which God forbid I look at all), absolutely different from
mine "[34]. Each hoop was flawless in form,
lovely in hue, tenderly luminous, exquisite in purity. Never had I seen the double iris so
immaculate in colouring, and, with its bases resting on the river, it curved over the gold-born
city like a frame of ethereal beauty.

"Does it not seem, dear, like an answer to our prayer, an omen of good hope, a promise for
the future?"

"Yes, beloved, our future, yours and mine. The clouds are rolling away. All is bright with
sunshine once again, and God sends His rainbow to cheer and comfort us. It will not be long
now. On the first day of June, beloved, I will come to you, and we will be made man and wife.
You will be waiting for me, will you not?" Observe also that if he beats the competition when Angelo Nardi the expulsion
of the Moriscos, maintains friendship with him and his former rival in its favor declaring on information
from the habit of Santiago, makes them his classmates called to Madrid Alonso Cano and Zurbarán,
going to Zaragoza with the Court and is appointed by them Jusepe Martinez House painter. Juan de Pareja
slave, as aforesaid, of Velazquez, had from fellow fans to painting and worked in secret. One day,
knowing that the King had to go to study his master, laid back against the wall a picture that
was painted in secret, hoping that the monarch be curious to examine it. It happened as I thought.
Came Felipe IV, discovered the box and ask whose it was. Couple fell at his feet, then Velazquez
said the monarch. "Warn them that whoever has this ability can not be a slave." Its owner free
him at once: but life couple continued serving him and killed him his daughter and her husband.
Indeed it says much for the love that second and voluntary restraint the servant. El Conde-Duque
Velasquez protects from 1623 and after twenty years of losing the painter is the favor of the few
who remain faithful. Where further evidence of goodness than favoring peers, winning the voluntary
submission of which was a slave and persist gratitude to the dangerous friendship of the fallen?

Courtly
servility and pompous style of the times they wrote, they Pacheco and Palomino refer to the favors
granted by Velázquez Philip IV with such colors their stories were
the basis for a tradition according to which, the monarch appeared
as real and enthusiastic protector of the artist.

Nowadays, the documents found by diligent investigators in the archives of Simancas Palace and
have demonstrated the dry language of clerical roles than those who gave the king the role of sponsors,
incurred gross exaggeration. Felipe IV enjoyed seeing Velázquez painting, was key to go when
he wanted in his study, to be aware that once remained seated three hours for her portraits
but raised his career left him ascend palace step by step, allowed to be paid mostly with
delays, decided against it when had disagreements with some high official of bondage, as in 1645
with the Marquis Malpica [95], especially in jobs that kept him, forcing him to serve in low necessities,
stealing time to his art that was as prejudicial to their glory. In the end, allowed four days
to the death of the new quarters, immediately appointed to succeed him, seized as were in
rooms on the pretext that Velázquez accounts of throwing aposentaduría against a range of several
thousands of maravedises. Until after Felipe IV is not dead it became clear that the administration
had 74,769 Palacio real, and it Velázquez 19,945, Villamil Crusade being tested by publishing the
documents, fully demonstrated the disorder in real offices and honesty of the artist. Covered
but not his protector for it to posterity to judge a writer Philip IV so attached to tradition
and monarchy as scholar Don Pedro de Madrazo. And he's right, because if it were not for portraits
where immortalized him what today would inspire interest figure for the King?

[Image: MUSEO DEL PRADO

THE MENINAS

FRAME.

To fully appreciate the importance and significance of Velázquez in
the history of Spanish painting just look at what it was before he
produce their wonderful work.

Our painters of the last third of the sixteenth century, largely
emancipated from foreign teachings that were formed, they begin to
acquire a national character, but the influence Italian, as well as
speculative and practical, is still very great.

From Italy come Peninsula to settle in our many teachers, and there will be refined born here.
Each other, molding the social environment when working in Spain, where customs were less sumptuous
and austere religious spirit, start printing native art own label: Renaissance lost in his
hands all profanity, sensuality sheds pagan literary sense, and gains in severity and force what it
loses in grace, poetry and elegance, our art, as life takes on a tinge of great sadness on both
melancholy reigns distilled mystical books. In Italy the painting displays extraordinary splendor,
even in the temples is cheerful and highly decorative, and also to be used and protected by
the Church is as much or more illustrious families, the lords and governments of the small republics.
In Spain, by contrast, just encouraged to grow and develop only by the devotion of prelates,
councils, communities and parishes to which commands paint individual piety is dedicated to
faculty and chapel. The religious expression of the national spirit is admirably performed
and served. On the other hand completely lack historical painting, family and customs. In regard
to the external art of media, procedure, conditions personal, our writers and artists are influenced
by knowledge of aliens: some, such as Luis de Vargas, Rafael imitate others, such as Pantoja,
Antonio Moro follow: the Greco, but remained here many years, renounced his religion to Venice.

Velázquez,
pulsed innate powers and the conditions under which developed his life, is an independent isolated
in the national art. Exerts more influence in painting today it had in its time. Can be called
the originator or revolutionary? If it was not the intention, actually came to be, not because
I follow many, but because away from the past, pointed the way for the future. His aesthetic,
purely instinctive was not to amend the flat nature under the guise of seeking dignity, correction
or grace. He had only the truth abundantly clear: if the painting is so much better as seems
more real, is the first painter in the world.

Paintings make up the various elements, drawing, composition, color, execution, so related each
other, that there is no means considered in isolation, but must differ for understood. Well,
this, by way of separation is very difficult to establish case Velazquez, because in his work, as in reality,
merge and interpenetrate. Draws with simply amazing, creates the form, plays the kind, gives it character,
but look for look begetters strokes of everything, and is not, because his drawing is not made
only lines, but also with the color, with distance, with the air. Not fully achieved site in
its infancy, but the purity of its design is such that is precisely what more help to distinguish
the original from the copies or imitations that are attributed.

It is often said that it was a colorful sunset, but it should explain what sense is this true.

In
two ways captures the color to see: and because they look seductive, and because persuade its
truth: the first is easily accomplished with a piece or part of the composition expense of the
rest: the latter is not achieved but singing, harmonizing all so that each thing has not only
the color of its own but the same as the place occupied and modified by his surroundings. So
that essentially is the ratio of values that creates the whole: be overlooked, is hold partial
qualities: Rubens and deployed pump in color, more wealth Titian,
Veronese more variety: the likelihood of the overall impression, none
matched Velázquez.

Critics and biographers divide what happened during his life three times, wanting to see in
each a different style or manner.

The first involves what he did before coming to Madrid at the beginning of your stay in court,
then it is dry and hard to find with tenacious effort modeling: its concern is to the corporeal:
the Adoration of the Kings and some portraits, such as character unknown number of the Prado
1103, represent this stage of development of their faculties.

In the second, looser, easier, begins to give the chiaroscuro of exceptional importance: Drunks
box represents an observation of the entire record, but yet he has
not lost in the primitive harshness.

The works that provide more complete idea of ​​this period, are painted on his first trip to Italy,
The Forge of Vulcan and Joseph's coat.

In the third, which covers from the second trip back until he dies,
his powers come and their knowledge combined, the limit of what art
can do: what he paints is confused with reality.

But in fact this division is conventional, only serves to classify their work in relation the
time when made. His view on the interpretation of Nature is one,
constantly going through various degrees.

His skills are perfected by time and study without deterioration in fundamentals.

He who has called his first style is now a teacher himself in the
process of training investigates and analyzes up to the quintessential
of what looks, rushing, finishing far in the run the risk of sounding
even harder: it is aware of what he does, but is still struggling
with the influence of his surroundings and ways of expression that
was around him used: no age or student discipline, or lack of experience,
let break with what your school is considered more successful, then
your paint is like of Zurbaran and others who had as partners.

Soon, as just indicated, it begins to get some purely technical summary that before anyone
dreamed, in the same box Drunks, where he still has not lost all
his past hard, dry, start the separation between the contour of the
figures and background; his palette is simplified and is now the ripe
fruit, which they have contributed their powers native media flow
study and observation that might facilitate the works some teachers
gathered in Madrid and El Escorial.

In Italy for the most vigorous display of independence that the self-confidence may suggest an
artist. Another less sure of his own strength as it had pledged to see or how to run one of
those painters who filled with his glory Venice, Florence and Rome: he modifies progress without
imitating anyone, without losing a single character from the beginning to form their personality.
The Forge of Vulcan is painted without being dominated by the prestige
of the same one admires, but that it came from his concern chiaroscuro
intensity, then put efforts to get the package without shadows, modeling
clear.

As for how to compose, layout and to group like shapes can be said Italian painting that must have
seemed designed to charm and delight the eye, while what he intended was to persuade, reaching the
limits of the possible in imitation of the real.

When the distance suitable for examining a picture, we embrace the view in a room or outside a meeting
of persons or a single figure, not only distinguish their appearance total to appreciate the
look and minutiae trifles, we need to find and fix the them particularly. This very simple observation
is the basis of the latest style of Velazquez which is in line to see the natural tone and all,
regardless of details and details, synthesis, which reached not only by virtue of its powers
which were very powerful, but helped by a steady job. In their time used black mirrors, the
reduction, the camera obscura, the TriGuard and other optical instruments to manage applications
to be much accustomed to seeing on the globe, together, as this view
the scene of Las Meninas, where given the extent of what must be the
painting: the image of reality that gives us the mirror, and this
is indeed Las Meninas, a painting copied from what the Kings were
when they Velázquez was portraying.

That contributed to the art of painting a new or which had been little attention, the air
brought not only between each member of the box, but between it and who observes. This condition
is born its undisputed superiority over all painters. No you know how limited the shots and spacing
distances, how to calculate the gradient and vanishing shadows, in
a word, how to get people and things surrounding environment that
surrounds them.

About Canvas nothing seems that this fact, from the appropriate view, the illusion is complete.

Much has been written, especially by foreigners, for the influence of Velázquez exercised, first
teachers, then other artists. Since then there have to be discounted Herrera the Elder, who was, as
a boy, too little time and whose harshness nothing hit him. At home in Pacheco, both in discipline
as their own accord, had to draw a lot, but now giving the choice of models humble fruit and utensils
vulgar animals, the first show of independence in others and Palomino tells us that it met Pacheco
from the beginning, no way to paint suit him so warm though full of learning, and here really do
not know what to admire more, the discreet audacity with the disciple away than their contemporaries
and therefore deserved greater respect, or the insight So the teacher sensed and tolerance allowed
dwell So those powers, opposed to theirs. Rare example and clearly demonstrate that teaching
is not usually more useful who is running but who knows best place to apprentice under conditions
conducive to the development from its own resources.

If the child is not seduced classicism Velázquez wise, but cold Pacheco, nor left dazzled by the magnificence
of Rubens, who probably saw on his visit to Madrid original painting and prints, and his enthusiasm
for Titian and Tintoretto, made him hesitate at the love that was in truth to be simple. Strengthened
in their beliefs were dismissed of the Italian classical and pagan,
with the portrait of Innocent X.

Who probably exerted some influence
on him was the Greco.

He could not know him, he died in 1614 and Velázquez left Seville until 1623, and it is believed
that El Greco was a Andalusia Velázquez or see his works here, because the impression that they
are causing is not reflected in the master's works until much later, comes, however, a period
is absolutely unquestionable. But this influence does not degenerate into imitation. The compositions
and Greco's figures are so true, especially in the expression of heads, which cause impression,
but reveal an exalted spiritualism that Velázquez did not participate: what at the extraordinary
and little-studied artist seduced him was the color. El Greco, was an extraordinary colorist,
enjoyed such strong contrasts that seem to reach dissonance, was so delicate harmonies that make possible
the most opposite effects; in it, tempered with astounding inks sour taste and is distinguished
mainly by a particular use of pure and white, violent, and muffled in gray shades that link,
fuse and sweeten it. These gray then appear in subsequent works of Velázquez, employees so discreetly
and so exquisite art that only painters and fans are able to careful observation, can distinguish.


"Oh, I'm all right," I protested.

"Yes, you're all right," he echoed grimly. "In an impersonation of an 'all-right' man it's
the hook for yours. I've seen 'all-right' men like you hitting the hurry trail for the boneyard
before now. You're 'all right'! Why, for the last two hours you've been sitting with that 'just-break-the-news-to
mother' expression of yours, and paying no more heed to my cheerful brand of conversation than
if I had been a measly four-flusher. You don't eat more than a sick sparrow, and often you
don't bat an eye all night. You're looking worse than the devil in a gale of wind. You've lost
your grip, my boy. You don't care whether school keeps or not. In fact, if it wasn't for your
folks, you'd as lief take a short cut across the Great Divide."

"You're going it a little strong, old man."

"Oh no, I'm not. You know you're sick of everything. Feel as if life's a sort of penitentiary,
and you've just got to do time. You don't expect to get any more fun out of it. Look at me.
Every day's my sunshine day. If the sky's blue I like it; if it's grey I like it just as well.
I never worry. What's the use? Yesterday's a dead one; to-morrow's always to-morrow. All we've
got's the 'now,' and it's up to us to live it for all we're worth. You can use up more human
steam to the square inch in worrying than you can to the square yard in hard work. Eliminate
worry and you've got the only system."

"It's all very well for you to preach," I said, "you forget I've been a pretty sick man."

"That's no nursemaid's dream. You almost cashed in. Typhoid's a serious proposition at the
best; but when you take a crazy streak on top of it, make a midnight getaway from the sick-ward
and land up on the Slide looking as if you'd been run through a threshing machine, well, you're
sure letting death get a short option on you. And you gave up. You didn't want to fight. You
shirked, but your youth and constitution fought for you. They healed your wounds, they soothed
your ravings, they cooled your fever. 

All critics and biographers agree in Velázquez consider this portrait as work of exceptional
merit: some praising it as regards the way of conceiving, printing the rough rider so much life and
so bold, others praise the drawing, where, through of regrets and corrections that are still
noticeable, is an admirable precision, others finally the ease of implementation, which has completely
gone past that hardness of the first pictures. For my part, I only recall that a few steps in
this picture is in our Prado Museum equestrian Charles I, by Titian, and that the comparison is
conducive to the first, for the great Venetian master was raided many difficulties having
to model a figure of heroic overtones, and the Spanish had to infuse his own, without violating the
truth, grandeur and poetry that was missing at all.

Tell the stories and relationships, a dozen women, including wives and girlfriends took Felipe
IV thirty-two children, including legitimate and illegitimate [43], but none will be so pleased
as Prince Don Baltasar Carlos, occurred after three children died without fulfilling a year,
his first wife and cousin Princess of France Isabella of Bourbon, whom he calls a writer of
the day lily fragrant purple rose turned into Spanish.

That child was born the year of 1629, during the continuance of Velázquez in Italy, which portrayed
several times, and it is assumed that the first on a canvas that is now housed in Castle-Howard.
Prince Has there two years and is represented standing on a step in the second term: before he
sees a dwarf page. In his eyes shines the property of their living eye images Further, in its
view, inappropriate for a child, can be discovered by painter to do that highlight the range of
the model: the left hand supports the hilt of the sword and her hand on the baton. Crosses its
rich dark velvet dress with lace a red gold: the background is a red curtain, and a pillow is
the hat velvet with white feathers. The dwarf, located a step lower than his master, becomes
to this the enormous head has smooth wide flange and chain around his neck, an apron covering
her the lower body. In his right hand has a silver-sucking, and left an apple [44]. Beruete, who
take these data, said that for some time, Table attributed to Correggio, assuming that the
portrait was a prince of Parma, but today two distinguished critics, Justi and Armstrong,
the second with some reservations, recognized he hand of Velazquez.

In Madrid the Prince portrayed twice, both times natural size, on foot and horseback. Don Pedro
de Madrazo has described these two pictures with a clarity and precision that no but to ask:
when speaking of a listed accurately clothing from the gorrilla of Walloon wing and lace up
sleeves tabard loggerhead and cloth shoes, with reference to another, from the hat with feathers
and red band of gold ends up boots tawny, or forgotten in the first of the two dogs, retriever
and greyhound, or left in the second to give an idea of ​​the brown Andalusian mare harnessed simply:
mentioned, finally, Madrid area funds with breakers on the floor and blue colored clouds clouds
white, but what is not given to express, even with a pen as an expert, is the appeal The figure
of the Prince, happy, playful and yet regal, has in these paintings.

In captivity they certainly look majestic little person innocent and playful, candid and malicious
one that gives a greater grace to any weighting: to increase the charm appears also There is no
doubt that the relationship between age and the landscape around him laughing. Both tables
are light and juicy, and it touches on the implementation of the happiest I can cite the second
way of the author.

In the Vienna Imperial Museum there is another canvas depicting the Prince himself after three
or four years with black velvet gown embroidered with silver, and Ferreruela: this together
with a table covered with red carpet, where he has his hat, and the figure stands on a gray background.
"This work - says Beruete - is altogether wonderful, but the most admirable of it is the prodigious
modeling pale face, lit from the front, and the expression of the face, which reads the character
of the universally beloved child, whose premature death, fatal influence
exercised the fate of Spain.

"

Besides the two mentioned equestrian portraits, that of King and Prince Baltasar Carlos, is
in the Museo del Prado three other real people horse and attributed to Velázquez but that has long
been judged not made all of his hand. Are those of Don Felipe III and Margarita, his wife,
parents of Philip IV, and the latter's first wife, Isabel de Bourbon, who had few times a model
Velázquez, perhaps because this is protected Conde-Duque and she your enemy [45]. Artists and critics
say that in these three large canvases, clearly show lateral additions made to give greater proportions,
the teacher worked on previous portraits made by Bartolome Gonzalez and Nicolas de Villacis,
not Stirling is in Carreño, who was then to be very young. Looking carefully these works is known
that there was the brush of Velasquez was to value and enhance with amendments, corrections and
isolated touches the petty and non-working heavy work of artists. Overpainting are even: the portrait
of Philip III has the horse almost all redone, in the Dona Margarita this varied background,
making the original, which was a garden with boxwood boxes in field of bushes and shrubs in the
Dona Isabel de Borbon also note the change of horse, and head of the Queen there are significant
variations. It therefore seems likely that the the three portraits were painted when Velazquez was that
of Philip IV, and, for brothers with it, the tweak and bravely, giving, in particular that of Philip
III, an aspect great that they had, thus, the works that would now be uninteresting, they are much,
because in them we see how the genius, with little effort, becomes higher, which, with great
penalties, was medium.

Portrayed, also in hunting dress like the King and Prince, the Infante Don Fernando. About from
when did opinions differ: some say that before going to Italy, which denies style, others
say by the year 1647, when the character was killed, drawing face the study of a previous
image. The figure is admirably placed and its side has a hound that is among the best pieces
made by Velázquez painting.

And it says it portrayed people who are talking, could be said about this dog, which not bark
because they want.

Details, isolated, do not represent much, and together they suggest a lot, testify Of course,
in addition to sovereign artist must have been natural kind man Velázquez; at least he was grateful:
I do not hesitate to ensure that evidence is his portrait Count-Duke.

The vanity of it, that it would be safe to bequeath half his image posterity, he would desire:
he justified his rank, but Velazquez put in the work that efforts to approach the perfection of
its kind that is not best conceived.

Was deprived of Felipe IV as a bad manager of the income of the Treasury as jealous of own, which
came to 450,000 ducats a year, so vindictive, who said putting Quevedo crickets to nine pounds,
and being celebrated the funeral of the illustrious Duke of Fernandina ordered that the hands
of the deceased were removed from the general staff, as political evil caused the rebellion
in Catalonia and the loss of Portugal, Brazil and Roussillon; staunch favored sumptuary laws,
although the inventor of the washers, while the operator stamped
paper and computer hunts where as the King entered the twenty pigs
in a later: the fans who showed the letters and the arts into something
so abhorrent amengua its tyranny, but neither was in the military,
and won battles, even took the field.

However, such Velázquez as represented you think of the thunderbolt of war.

In July of 1638 Condé ramming Fuenterrabía besieged by sea under his orders Archbishop of Bordeaux:
defendiose bravely the main square with so few people, who could not be long resistance or
prevent entry. Conde-Duque then assembled a small army about twelve thousand men and with them
the Admiral of the French broke Castilla with such a furious onslaught that was entered Condé
fleeing into the water to win a boat and warlike Archbishop welcomed the ships leaving the
square free; translated the exhilaration experienced by the King
not so much reward as soon as the Admiral to reward with largesse
to the Conde-Duque.

This was the occasion that Velázquez, if flattering grateful to portray field advantage Battle
of whole body and size, ordering a fantastic fight on horseback, breastplate of gold work, large
feather hat, baton and look caudillo safe and worthy of victory. Is the gross, which is chestnut
roan in corvette anchored on legs, hands held high and so well embedded on him the graceful
figure of the rider who does not are seen more vividly in the beast or the man domain. Nobody
would say that this is the Minister courtier whose days Rocroy died in the prestige of the Spanish
infantry, but a hero to those who have guided or Nordinga Muhlberg: undoubtedly the artist
sinning chateau they do not breathe the foul air in vain, committed here in the flatter the weakness
of private: but the evil effect it instantly dissipates because considering that Olivares
was his protector, and that innocent lie was the only sign of gratitude could give. Velazquez
did nothing so exquisite care: none of his paintings so tenacious denotes determination of
accuracy: there he put the best of his understanding and his hands and had noblest sense of his soul.
The color is fresh and unique wealth: the implementation, careful and thorough so great about
the outcome, is in harmony with the nature of the figure where everything
shows strength, determination and vigor [46].

It stands to reason that the obligations attached to the charges in servitude played Velázquez
Palace will not leave much time to accept orders from individuals,
assuming King tolerate it, but it was natural for convenience or friendship
made other portraits: Several of these are preserved, the main as
follows.

The bust of an unknown figure in Apsley House has the Duke of Wellington. On the Counsel Don
Diego del Corral, full-length and size, wearing robe, with a table
with papers in their hands.

It must have been painted around 1632, and is owned by the Duchess Villahermosa.

Pablillo that of Valladolid (No. 1092 of the Museo del Prado). It was said a few years ago that
this was a representative of comedies that dozens working in the pens Madrid and even in the
Old Fortress: and for this reason it was called The Comedian. Madrazo found more later than in
the actual files, inventory was a picture as a portrait of a jester ruff Pablillo was called
at Valladolid, which measures almost coincided with those of the Comedian; and believed, but
his views were accepted, which was not such a representative, but buffoon or man pleasure.
I, with all due respect to this distinguished critic, I can not persuade me. True that there
is in books and old papers, so far discovered no mention of comic of the name, but so is that
a copyist might be called a buffoon who was not: for a palace scribe would have little difference
between a fraud and a fool: also, all Velázquez painted clowns were dwarfs ridiculous, grotesque
beings, and are dressed estate mess or unsuited to their condition, while Pablillo or is deformed or
has mogiganga clothes to class or higher, but on the contrary, it is graceful presenscia,
members well-proportioned and is dressed seriously as a person and not make me laugh. In truth,
his face gives patent truanesco rogue, but not in your body and face nothing in common with
those miserable events, true pathological cases whose villainy sporting our pious monarchs.
Velázquez portrayed each character depending on who was looking for ways to acknowledge their condition
and character: the king in majesty, the noble knight, the lady with the elegance that allowed
the wretched finery of his time, and this, I I have by comedian until proven otherwise fully,
put to rest not usually portrayed as large and gentlemen, but moved, declaiming, perhaps in
the act of loa or recite a passage of dish. Represents less than forty years, little eyes is alive
regular features, together mustache and goatee as black as his hair, and clothing court is black,
with white ruff, severe, almost lordly. The entire figure without accessories one, even without floor,
characterized by dark gray background: this and in the air and yet Velazquez got no better man planted.

[Image:
MUSEO DEL PRADO

SURRENDER OF BREDA]

Also of this period, the portrait of a sculptor
who first assumed to be Alonso Cano Madrazo then showed that it was
Martinez Montanes.

It is almost certain that the paint when 1636 the artist was summoned to Madrid to make a
bust of the king who sent Tacca order to facilitate the study of the statue. Is of the best
left hands Velázquez: natural size to about the knee, drawn with admirable security built head so
that it guesses the bone structure beneath the skin soft, fleshy, and carried freely in some
places with body-colored, barely covered the canvas where it is not necessary looking at all the character,
the soul of the form, as a gift from one artist to another, a fact without fear that the populace
does not understand with certainty that the party should appreciate all merit. Speaking of the
room where the portrait was soon placed in our museum says Lefort. "There are portraits of the
great masters, and what pictures! The Earl of Bristol, Van-Dick, Thomas Morus, Rubens, and others
of Antonio Moro, Holbein, Dürer, and precisely next to an admirable man by Tintoretto. Well, these
formidable neighbors, this picture makes it look like fiction, conventional imaging and dead.
Dick Van is dull, Greasy Rubens, Tintoretto yellowish Velázquez only gives us in all its fullness the
illusion of life. "

At the Museum of Modena, there is that by 1638 he painted the Duke Francesco d'Este. It is a superb
Armored bust and band, preliminary study probably the most important
work.

Also portrayed Juan Mateos, principal of HM archer, author of famous book Origin and dignity
of the Chase, printed in Madrid in 1634. The painting is now in the real gallery Dresden and is
likely to Velázquez: they say their bill and the similarity of the image Mateos's portrait
contained in that work recorded by P. Perete. The gift that made him Diego, this bust represented
Mateos green cloth with dark suit and white collar on which strongly underlines shaped the face:
it is expressive face, her hair, the short mustache and goatee.

The number 1,090 of the Prado Museum, is an average figure and portrait size of a Count Benavente:
What is not known for sure is if it is as he imagined Don P. Madrazo, of Don Antonio Alonso
Pimentel, the ninth of that title died in 1633, or any of its successors as inclined to believe
Beruete, quietly observing the style of the painting is the characteristic teacher works in time after
the death of that leader. Whoever, appears from his noble, chivalrous type legendary Spanish master
those times. Represents his frank face more than fifty years has expressive eyes, the short hair,
mustache and graying goatee great. It houses a rich his chest armor Fitted and damask with gold,
and has gauntlets of the same. Backdrop for his figure a red curtain and a hollow, after which the
currency field. In the old inventories Palace, was the one attributed to Titian, and at first
glance this seems absurd, because there is no confusion between the frank, loose, and most
molten Velázquez and pasted the great painter of Venice, has, however, his explanation for
this is the canvas that appears more pronounced in the painter to Philip IV the deep impression
that he had to cause Theotocópuli Domencio works, El Greco, and his disciple Louis Tristan
interesting influence that will be discussed later.

Other portraits are attributed to Velázquez in galleries and museums
abroad, but certainly not authenticity.

We know, for example, that in 1639 became one of the Admiral of Castile Don Adrián Pulido Pareja:
Palomino you saw in the house of the Duke of Arcos, says that this fact "with paintbrushes Long
wearing antlers sometimes to paint with greater distance and courage of luck that was not understood
by and far is a miracle, says it was signed in Latin, and even relates an anecdote, that while
the picture as to where there was little light and entering King, as usual, to see painting Velazquez,
painting confused with the man, asking the portrait: "What, are you still here? Have I not already
dispatched? Why did not you go? and then realizing his mistake said the artist: I assure you
that I cheated. "

Some biographers, including Armstrong, Stirling and Lefort, who comes to believe the story,
Philip IV on the grounds that it was very shortsighted, admit that this portrait should be
as given in National Gallery of London but you doubt Beruete, noting
deficiencies drawing and little ability on the bill unworthy of the
master.

Palomino says also portrayed Don Francisco de Quevedo "wearing glasses as usually used to bring.
" At the end of last century, this painting was owned by Don Juan Jose Lopez de Sedano, who sent
him to record a Spanish Parnassus Carmona [47]. Today is considered lost, and how old copy which
has the Duke of Wellington [48]. Pity large not keep the original! It must have been painted
before 1639, in which month of December, living in the home of the
Duke of Medinaceli, the great poet was arrested by order of the Conde-Duque.

Perhaps it was this the only time that Velazquez had the model who was as good as him.

Fleeing from Richelieu, who had conspired against, came to Spain in 1637 Madame Mary Rohan Montbazon,
Duchess of Luynes and Chevreuse, a favorite of Anne of Austria, a woman of great intelligence,
life full of adventures and unique beauty, whose appearance in Madrid must have Weird riots and
bring the people. In Zaragoza hosted the Marquis de los Vélez and the King sent her car and males
to come to court, where he entered December 6, leaving to receive the Admiral, the Constable,
the Duke of Híjar, Villahermosa, Pastrana and other larger, unequivocal proof that the king entertained.
At the meeting came more than a league, the Marquesas of Mirabel and Navas, and the Countess
de Santisteban. "She's very bizarre, and laid bare-chested, went walking looking at the front and
sides, to cars were stopped and crowded from Bernigal stream. " He had two servants French
one of whom slept in the apartment of his mistress, and "Madame gave clothes to the greatness
of your mood not wanting to receive eight thousand ducats that he had from SM [49]. " The Duchess
said - adding the letter from which we get such data - all behaved with great modesty, Diego
Velázquez and is now portraying the air and brought the French [50]. " Palomino says he portrayed
at that time to "superior skill, a lady of singular perfection [51]." No one has determined
whether this portrait and the former are self, nor should they be two where they went. The
one with the beautiful Duchess of Chevreuse, made by Velázquez, would quite different from
those queens and princesses of the House of Austria, whose ugliness farthingales, wigs and
rouge, had to fight to give them distinction and elegance. No was in the fortunate luck of the
great artist portraits: those of the illustrious poets and beautiful women, as Gongora and Quevedo,
the English lady and Chevreuse, have been lost: in Change your hand are the faces of those
figures of princes and clowns, where pain is our sad decline.

Nor did it keep the Cardinal Don Gaspar de Borja, teachers of the House King, Pereira and Cardona,
Don Fernando de Fonseca, a relative no doubt of his patron, nor the Fray Simón de Rojas on
his deathbed. Finally, some of fire Palace, he must eliminate one horse who did the King, which
exposed the public and Having been censored on the horse, angry about
the ignorance of others or moderately satisfied own error, deleted it.

Here ends the relationship of the portraits he painted during those years, people immortalized several
conditions, among which there was almost no one who deserved it.
Let's see now, your pictures of the same era: where we find wonder,
enchantment of eyes as delight; desperate pen can not express the
life that beats in them. How agreeably
every one was smiling! Indeed, some were laughing for sheer joy. A big, merry-hearted miner
called for another round, and I joined in.

Where was that bitter feeling now? Where that morbid pain at my heart? As I drank it all seemed
to pass away. Magical change! What a fool I was! What was there to make such a fuss about?
Take life easy. Laugh alike at the good and bad of it. It was all a farce anyway. What would
it matter a hundred years from now? Why were we put into this world to be tortured? I, for
one, would protest. I would writhe no more in the strait-jacket of existence. Here was escape,
heartsease, happiness--here in this bottled impishness. Again I drank.

What a rotten world it all was! But I had no hand in the making of it, and it wasn't my task
to improve it. I was going to get the best I could out of it. Eat, drink and be merry, that
was the last word of philosophy. Others seemed to be able to extract all kinds of happiness
from things as they are, so why not I? In any case, here was the solution of my troubles. Better
to die happily drunk than miserably sober. I was not drinking from weakness. Oh no! I was drinking
with deliberate intent to kill pain.

How wonderfully strong I felt! I smashed my clenched fist against the bar. My knuckles were
bruised and bleeding, but I felt no pain. I was so light of foot, I imagined I could jump over
the counter. I ached to fight some one. Then all at once came the thought of Berna. It came
with tragical suddenness, with poignant force. Intensely it smote me as never before. I could
have burst into maudlin tears.

"What's the matter, Slim?" asked a mouldy mannikin, affectionately hanging on to my arm.

Disgustedly I looked at him.

"Take your filthy paws off me," I said.

His jaw dropped and he stared at me. Then, before he could draw on his fund of profanity, I
burst through the throng and made for the door.

I was drunk, deplorably drunk, and I was bound for the Tivoli.

CHAPTER III

I wish it to be understood that I make no excuses for myself at this particular stage of my
chronicle. I am only conscious of a desire to tell the truth. Many of the stronger-minded will
no doubt condemn me; many of those inclined to a rigid system of morality will be disgusted
with me; but, however it may be, I will write plainly and without reserve.

When I reeled out of the Grubstake Saloon I was in a peculiar state of exaltation. No longer
was I conscious of the rasping cold, and it seemed to me I could have couched me in the deep
snow as cosily as in a bed of down. Surpassingly brilliant were the lights. They seemed to
convey to me a portentous wink. They twinkled with jovial cheer. What a desirable place the
world was, after all!

With an ebullient sense of eloquence, of extravagant oratory, I longed for a sympathetic ear.
An altruistic emotion pervaded me. Who would suspect, thought I, as I walked a little too circumspectly
amid the throng, that my heart was aglow, that I was tensing my muscles in the pride of their
fitness, that my brain was a bewildering kaleidoscope of thoughts and images?

Gramophones were braying in every conceivable key. Brazen women were leering at me. Potbellied
men regarded me furtively. Alluringly the gambling-dens and dancing-dives invited me. The town
was a giant spider drawing in its prey, and I was the prey, it seemed. Others there were in
plenty, men with the eager, wistful eyes; but who was there so eager and wistful as I? And
I didn't care any more. Strike up the music! On with the dance! Only one life have we to live.
Ah! there was the Tivoli.

To the right as I entered was a palatial bar set off with burnished brass, bevelled mirrors
and glittering, vari-coloured pyramids of costly liqueurs. Up to the bar men were bellying,
and the bartenders in white jackets were mixing drinks with masterly dexterity. It was a motley
crowd. There were men in broadcloth and fine linen, men in blue shirts and mud-stiffened overalls,
grey-bearded elders and beardless boys. This is in my humble opinion, the origin of the picture. Then
on how to feel it and fix it, Velázquez mythology mocked mocked as Quevedo of the heroic poems, writing
Orlando Follies and nonsense, and Cervantes all books of chivalry with the immortal Don Quixote.

Lithography,
etching and photography have played so much this painting is no need
describe it.

It would also be necessary to pen portrayed Monipodio to express in words Velázquez worthy of
truth and grace of that group of nine men held more or less wine, which distinct types give the
set an amazing variety within the breed rascally they belong to everyone. Sitting or lying in
the shade of a vine, a drunken and, others almost, who lifted a cup that looks Greek, who lovingly
holding between hands a bowl of wine: Bacchus makes head adorned with grape leaves to who
kneels as if it were respectful of the laurel crown that is awarded, one that has already
achieved, rest lying on the ground and in the most comfortable bed, and another about asking
humbly, hat in hand, enter the circle and participate in the drink to get in that situation
worthy of branches also adorn the temples. Not there or face a bitter look menacing, these
men may have been for serious crimes rowing in the galleys, are perhaps highwaymen, but at
that time the gift has made them meek are peaceful, happy, enjoying the delightful intoxication
instead of stirring up of strife or crime seems abstracted them, isolating them from world as
if he had not anything worth to worry, no glory, no greed, no lust, whose taste can be compared
to the pleasing feeling that causes them to slide down the juice gullet. The joy they feel
is communicative: those who watch them laugh, they are not drunks that inspire fear and loathing,
or disgust, his drunkenness has that little respect it deserves the pleasure of others to be harmless.

When
Velazquez, in time, he mastered the art freehold of art, perhaps other pictures painted in
neither came to deploy as much force and intensity Speech: The Drunk is why among all his canvases
the choice of the public.

This drew an admirable way, neither in each figure considered in relation to others discrepancy
is noticed, or examined in isolation has the slightest impropriety: no figure does not occupy
the place it deserves, nor a member that does not fit in the body
to belongs, or lines that do not play with really amazing the way
you intend to copy.

The bare chips are about the purity of modeling as fragments of classical statues; in each
fold clothes accuses the package behind it. The total spot of color is hot dominating yellowish-brown
tones of weathered complexions and coarse cloth. In style and manner are still hard, each piece
is made and rushed aside, the concern Strongly modeling, the shadows seem to cut, and around
the figures, which outline highlights of the fund unnecessary force, short of breathing air which
is the largest charm of the works of Velázquez, when observer force arrives later Blend bodies
in the distance, presenting them with their own look not real, but which take, according to the place.

It
was natural, given the time he lived, that Velazquez want to go to Italy, Rubens had to counsel and the
King, far from opposing "habiéndoselo promised several times - said Pacheco - meeting real word
and encourage their lot, gave him leave, and for four ducats trip silver, making him pay two
years of his salary. And saying farewell to the Conde-Duque, gave two hundred ducats in gold
and a medal bearing the portrait of King, and many letters of favor. "

Embarked at Barcelona on August 10, 1629, and its companion the Marquis navigation of Balbases,
Ambrosio Spinola, commander of our troops in Flanders, future winner Breda, who was to paint years later in
the box spears.

I think coming here should copy the paragraphs that describe the journey
Pacheco of his son, rather than extractive wrong because his style,
but expressive, giving full idea that first issue of Velázquez in
Italy.

"It flew into Venice - Pacheco said - and posing at home by the Ambassador
of Spain, which honored him much, and I sat at his desk, and wars
that had, when I went to see the city, sent his servants to which
it himself.

After leaving that concern, coming Venice to Rome, passed through the city of Ferrara, where
he then was, by order of Pope Saquet cardinal rule, which was Nuncio in Spain, who was to
give some letters and kiss hand, leaving to others to another Cardinal.

He was received very well and was a great instance The day was had to be there in his palace and
eat with him, he excused himself modestly with not eating at regular hours, plus with all this, if
your Lordship was felt, obey and moving out of habit. Seeing this, he sent a Spanish gentleman
of which I attended, they take great care of him, and do him dressing room for him and his servant
and gave him the mesmos dishes that were made for his table, and to teach things more individuals
in the city. He was there two days and last night he went to say goodbye Le had more than three
hours sitting trying different things, and sent to look after him that would prevent horses for the
next day and accompany him sixteen miles up a place called Hundred, where he was little, but
very gifted, and continued firing phone the way of Rome, Our Lady of Loreto and Bologna, which
did not stop or allow letters to Ludovico Cardinal or Cardinal Espada was there.

"He came to Rome, where he spent a year, much favored by Cardinal Barberino, nephew of Pope,
by whose order they stayed in the Vatican Palace. They gave the keys to some parts the main
one was painted a fresco, all high above the draperies, stories of Holy Scripture, Federico
Zucaro hand, and among them that of Moses before Pharaoh, who walks cut [37] Cornelius. He
left that room by hand and be far behind for not being so alone, content with that would lead
the guards to enter when debujar wanted a trial of Michael Angelo,
or Raphael of Urbino things without any difficulty, and attended there
for many days with great advantage.

After seeing the Palace or the Medici Vineyard, which is in the Trinidad del Monte, and thinking
on the subject site to study and spend the summer, being the highest and most graceful of Rome,
and have there that most excellent counterfeit ancient statues, called the Count of Monterey,
Ambassador from Spain, Florence negotiate with give him a place there, and although it was
necessary to write the Duke himself, provided him with this and was there more than two months
until a tertian you forced to get off near the house of Conde, which, in the days that he was
unwell, made him great favors by sending your doctor and medicines on their own, and sending
you ready such all he wanted at home, out of many gifts of sweets, and frequent memories on your
part.

"Among the other studies done in Rome a famous portrait of him, that I have to wonder well understood
the art and honor. Determinose to return to Spain for the much needed I did, and stood around
Rome, Naples, where he painted a beautiful portrait of the Queen Hungary, to bring to His Majesty.
He returned to Madrid after a year and a half of absence and arrived at the beginning of 1631.
It was very well received in the Conde-Duque, mandola was then to kiss the hand of His Majesty, we
appreciate not having allowed another portrait painter and waiting for him to portray the
Prince, which he did promptly, and His Majesty was delighted much
to his coming.

"

Besides the works here mentioned by Pacheco Velázquez made copies of the Crucifixion Venice
Supper and Tintoretto in Rome from Parnassus, The Fire in the Borgo and the Dispute of the
Sacrament, Raphael and the Last Judgement, by Michelangelo: but given the short time that there
remained and the great amount of work that this work implies, is to assume that only hiciese fragmentary
studies, isolated notes and Palomino tells you when he says he did "several drawings, some
color, some in pencil.

" Of the Medici villa brought together two beautiful landscapes that, with the numbers 1106 and 1107
are preserved at the Museum of Prado. These undoubtedly are from his hand [38]. The two boxes that
greater efforts were made during that trip Joseph's coat, which is in El Escorial, and The Forge
of Vulcan. Both have the same number life-size figures, six each, several painted with the same
models.

Case biblical Joseph's coat is prepared without much fidelity to the sacred text. Genesis says that
Joseph's clothes were colorful, and that Table present their Jacob brothers are brown with
white trim splattered with blood. Instead Velazquez playing with the pain of a father, perhaps
more humanely than the verses of Genesis, Jacob made not only overwhelmed
with grief, but with hints of anger.

Stirling says that because this, the Jacob painted by Velázquez is less moving than the one
described by Moses. In Moreover, the terrible scene is treated with severity corresponding
to a Catholic painter XVII century.

By contrast, in The Forge of Vulcan, without reaching the lighthearted mockery made of Bacchus
in Drunks, the situation appears ready with some hilarious irony is Andalusian and little
respect for the immortal gods. Vulcano helped four strong guys went who have nothing of Cyclops,
for neither are giants, or wrongs, but of human stature and two healthy
eyes, was working with a hammer on the anvil a hot iron sheet, when
suddenly you are presented with Apollo in the form of beautiful youth,
crowned with the laurel Dafne and enclosed head revealing vivid clarity
his heavenly home.

The god Poetry comes to the god of Hell to the unpleasant news, that while he was sweating
chyle strives to forge a tremendous reinforcement for Mars, this, shaming and a mere mortal,
has committed adultery with his wife Venus and I said, apparently without preparation or rodeo,
regardless even his assistants who are there. The victim as amazed as angry, and his companions
in whose faces are painted stupefaction, suspended work: that naked from the waist up, with no more
clothing than a leather apron, gets stuck with the hammer in his right hand and left the iron
you press the red iron sheet was beating, the four young men whose only conceals a soft nudity
Gray tied at the waist, look and listen to the ruddy Apollo with less curiosity than surprise.
Each figure and each part of it is illuminated by the site it occupies, and for clarity of
the day leading into an open ventanón left on which nothing stands Apollo Now for the glow halo
head of it and by the red embers of the stove. The stay is a humble workshop in which the first
term are scattered on the floor coarse pieces of armor and tools. To serve God Vulcan Forge model,
according to the plans, the workshop of a humble blacksmith in the suburbs of Rome. For Finally,
the whole is enveloped in an atmosphere that you do not have transparency even staggering of
his later works, starting to be breathable. Understood the matter well: thinking for the gods
are human, they should be treated like men. Except for the light that radiates head of Apollo,
described by Stirling Young vulgar, nor is there anything divine or even heroic. Velázquez breathing
the atmosphere of the Renaissance papal Rome, surrounded by views pictorial prevailing literary
element, the result of an extraordinary classical culture and lavishly decorative appearance,
said his naturalistic approach, with a work that how fabulous is represented by means that
seem rude bordering on what he does not understand only with the beauty of form and expression
of individual character can be reached to the sublime. Other teachers who must have known Velázquez
there that are not exercised any influence it would have authority to deal with the issue until Homeric
grandeur: perhaps the Dominichino, the Guercino, Guido Reni Albano and would have been more
poets, more Poussin scholar, none as a painter. This certainly was proposed in the forge, was
overcome difficulties of the nude and it was made in an admirable fashion.

To make the portrait of the Infanta Dona Maria, later Queen of Hungary, sister of the King and this
order, Velazquez went to Naples. Pacheco says he painted, but no security it is the cataloged
at the Museum of Madrid with the number 1,072. The age represents the lady, his lower jaw typical
in individuals of this branch of the Austrian dynasty and to a certain resemblance to that
king, we are inclined to the affirmative, on the other hand, appears likely given the high
category hiciese Velázquez portrait of more importance lost, which perhaps is copy the one in the
Berlin Museum [39] and that Prado precede him as head of the preparatory study. His style is
typical of Velázquez at that time, perhaps some desire to work hard for long and soon dominate
the features of a model which could hardly have, it is known that
the stay was very short in Naples in the future queen and empress.

In any case, if the portrait is in Madrid Velazquez was not, who might be attributed? While
not answered satisfactorily the question, should call their own.

They were still in Naples also then Viceroy Duque de Alcalá, a friend of Pacheco, and great Spanish
painter José Ribera the Españoleto. If Velazquez had intended to take up residence in Italy,
it is likely that Bank, given the rebellious temper and domineering character that attributed
his biographers, it is not looked kindly: but as he had to know who was way, is not absurd
assumption made by several critics that would graciously to Seville. Moreover, even in the country
could, find a rival, as Jusepe Martinez Naples has found that being in a "a famous painter,
imitator of nature with great propriety, countryman of ours from the kingdom of Valencia, from whom
I received great courtesy ... Among several speeches I had to ask seeing as how all the nations
applauded, not trying to cum Spain, it was indeed his works were seen with all reverence. He replied:
"Friend expensive, my will is the great instance, but part of the
experience of many well understood and people will indeed find the
impediment, that is, be the first year received by the great painter,
the second year, it made for me, because seeing the person present
he loses respect, and the record confirms that have seen some excellent
work teachers of these kingdoms of Spain, estimated to be very little,
and I judge that Spain is the mother pious strangers and most cruel
stepmother of one's natural "[40]: bitter conviction should not have
to erase in his heart the love of country, as he signed many of his
works setting: José de Ribera, Spanish, Jativa.

Both can the persistent memory of the land where it has even in those born less than they imagine.
Pacheco writes nothing about whether locked in Naples Bank friendship with his son. Cean Bermudez,
without specifying on what grounds, said that it in 1630 was pleased to see and treat Don Diego
Velazquez when he went to Naples and accompanied him seeing all things worthy of the city, adding
that in 1649 he returned to embrace Velázquez when she gave another turn to Italy [41].

[Image: MUSEO DEL PRADO

CHRIST CRUCIFIED

FRAME. M. Moreno]

At the end of 1630 he returned to Spain and if Rubens did not influence his style, nor altered
due to cause admiration the works of Titian, Tintoretto, Veronese, Raphael and Michelangelo.
By reflection or by instinct, at thirty-one, was so adamant their ideas and secure their powers
who was able to study all the teachers, not to follow any and keep your personality, leaving them
unmatched in grandeur, poetry, color and grace, and leaving him as ruler up to the simplicity and
truth.

The best way to express the development of the powers of this great painter, would be describing
their works in order that you did: so appreciate not only the different stages of their thought
but also the variations and progress of their technique, but it is not possible, first for lack
of security to set the execution date of each canvas, and second
because even style guides infallible in determining, for as for being
Velázquez employee palace were his paintings in his custody, the retouched
when it suited him, drawing and enhancing the above painting: Finally,
the fact of being some abroad, hamper the investigation.

Worked very hard during the eighteen years between the 1631, when
back in Madrid your name appears on the palace payroll for the month
of January, and in 1649 he undertook his second trip to Italy: but
there is no way to list everything in strict order he painted.

It is desirable to make a classification by groups that at first seems arbitrary but has the
advantage of indicating first split and then cover and set all As occurred in that fertile period
of his life. What we can know almost year by year is the least interested: his service as
a servant of the King. In the capital, which are boxes, do not speak the files of the files, but
to say where they were once positions, or even be relying on the documents relating to cost them,
as these roles composed when they were paid, not when they were painted,
so it is not possible to subject them to chronology.

Finally, the order of their production, due to a work with pretensions to definitive and erudite, it is
not necessary in a modest work of popularization. Be satisfied, therefore, to mention when referring
to this period (1630-1649), first pictures, so gender Velázquez exceptional importance, then
the composition tables, and finally, paintings fires destroyed or unaccounted for.

One of the first works that had to do upon arrival in Italy, in early 1631, is the portrait of
Philip IV which is preserved in the National Gallery in London. This represented King standing, full
length and size to suit embroidered with silver gray, dark gloves,
white socks and dusty shoes, supporting his left hand on the hilt
of the sword and the right hand is a paper that reads: Lord, Diego
Velázquez, painter of Your Majesty: beside him is a table where is
the hat.

Beruete says, in that work, that picture is somewhat dry, and because the first impression
is very favorable, but that head made with singular delicacy, all faultlessly drawn and it authentic
no doubt. Almost the same months would two portraits of the King and his first wife, Dona Isabel
de Borbon, both from the waist, which are in the Imperial Museum of Vienna.

In Madrid we have the King portrayed by then twice.

The first (No. 1074 of the Museum) in depth of field, gun in hand, and a hunting dress fine dog
next door. This figure of Philip IV is one of the stakes and moved more elegance among all painted.

The
second in full dress and on horseback. In 1616, the Duke of Lerma had sent the sculptor Florentine
Pedro Tacca, to do the statue of Felipe III is now at the Plaza Mayor Madrid, in 1632, the
Conde Duque de Olivares, not wanting to be less flattering, commissioned that of Philip IV to
place in the Retiro. Tacca wanting to have a good portrait view King, he sent a hand equestrian
hat Velazquez and less than the natural: asked the Italian one where better to study real person,
and did to Velazquez 1633 profile, chest and no hat [42], enviándosele
also a bust of King by Martinez Montanes, maybe that is indicated
on the bottom right of the portrait this Velázquez was a sculptor.

That the king liked any of that to this end made him his favorite painter, or that it shall be
glad of them, must have been born in both the idea of ​​a major new He SM equestrian portrait
of the artist to work and fruit of that work, which today is in the Museo del Prado with no.
1066. By the age that he represents the King, news and expressed, can not be painted or to
get to the Court Velázquez 1623, as claimed by Cean Bermudez, and in 1624, as indicated in
Stirling, or say Lefort and Don Pedro de Madrazo in 1644, and the time when King was thirty-nine
years old does not appear in the table, must have run about 1633 or 34, due as a result of
Tacca is sent.

Is the King represented by fund having a field near Madrid for the North, where the environment
clean diaphanous long distances reveals the groups of trees and cracking of the ground, overlooking
the clear tones, green and blue.

Walks from left to right, in profile, riding a horse chestnut, white paws, sober jected harness
and put in half or corvette. Empavonada takes half armor with gold work, band shell and the
crimson, silk, made a graceful bow, the tips will float to the back, dark breeches, boots and
gloves Estévez fine brown feather hat and white ruff narrow gutter, all painted with such delicacy
that although the artist hesitating and fixes many, because it is the work of such difficulty, it
seems the implementation achieved with remarkable ease and fluency. Besides the perfect imitation
of nature, feature hallmark of this painting is some mix of vigor and elegance, majesty and grace
that makes deeply sympathetic to the model: even knowing who the sitter, it is understandable
that must belong to the category of pampered by wealth and jobs for
her at the summit of social grandeur, someone made a gift of magnificent
palaces and a powerful who has protected happiness, for the continent,
bearing, gesture, it's all very own Sir, and knowing that is Philip
IV of Austria, under whose scepter Unfortunately no we do not or harm
to come over to deliver him guilty of apathy, when we remember that
is that Lack of drive to King was not available as parties and to
woo women, it is still higher amazement that cause its image and drawn,
because, rather than sovereign incapable, it seems father of a people
who in their wisdom made happy.



Her lips moved:

"How you have changed!"

"Yes, Berna, I have been ill. But you, you too have changed."

"Yes," she said very slowly. "I have been--dead."

There was no faltering in her voice, never a throb of pathos. It was like the voice of one
who has given up all hope, the voice of one who has arisen from the grave. In that cold mask
of a face I could see no glimmer of the old-time joy, the joy of the season when wild roses
were aglow. We both were silent, two pitifully cold beings, while about us the howling bedlam
of pleasure-plotters surged and seethed.

"Come upstairs where we can talk," said she. So we sat down in one of the boxes, while a great
freezing shadow seemed to fall and wrap us around. It was so strange, this silence between
us. We were like two pale ghosts meeting in the misty gulfs beyond the grave.

"And why did you not come?" she asked.

"Come--I tried to come."

"But you did not." Her tone was measured, her face averted.

"I would have sold my soul to come. I was ill, desperately ill, nigh to death. I was in the
hospital. For two weeks I was delirious, raving of you, trying to get to you, making myself
a hundred times worse because of you. But what could I do? No man could have been more helpless.
I was out of my mind, weak as a child, fighting for my life. That was why I did not come."

When I began to speak she started. As I went on she drew a quick, choking breath. Then she
listened ever so intently, and when I had finished a great change came over her. Her eyes stared
glassily, her head dropped, her hands clutched at the chair, she seemed nigh to fainting. Certainly works
referred to these observations atinadísimas say little to pure feeling aesthetic, because they
are based on imitation, and its authors, although more or less able, lacked the spirit of
its own: but instead, we can say that by its very simplicity and candor perfectly satisfied
that inspire religious fervor. Compositions These paintings were not real pictures made just
for ornamental and permanent gala Room but small portable oratories, diptychs or triptychs, encharneladas
tables, as they named in the language of the time, and they were all based on issues devotees.
Kings captains and nobles took them to war, and its consequent suffering Travel affairs: what
was at camp today, tomorrow could be seen in a castle, and ignorance or culture of winning depend always
his luck. This line of paints due to generalized dramatically.

For cameras and Tarbes of palaces, castles and houses that Elizabeth
I had in Aranjuez Granada, Seville, Toledo, Toro, Tordesillas, Segovia,
Medina del Campo, was, as stated inventory made after his death, at
the foot of four hundred sixty paintings, almost all of devotion,
and Juana la Loca left thirty-six, on which he inherited from his
mother.

Test that not only kings possessed such works, is that many of them they were gifted, and their
perpetrators should be well paid when we know that Fernando V sent to Michel Flemish painter
who was Our Lady Queen there blessed glory, the sum maravedises of 116,666, around the time
he had served the queen from the early SA 1492, until the fine [6].

[Image: NATIONAL GALLERY LONDON

CHRIST BOUND TO COLUMN

FRAME. Braun, Clement & C ª]

Charles I had more than six hundred paintings, known his power, it
is easy to deduce the treasures that accumulate in the palaces of
the Netherlands, Italy and Spain, only her Aunt Dona Margarita of
Austria, bequeathed more than one hundred paintings, and Francis I
of France, or Henry VIII of England, came to possess similar wealth.

But this treasure is no longer composed exclusively religious works. The Renaissance was in
full swing, the pagan auras awakening the love of Nature had eaten the new blood art, artists
and believers lazy and accounting with accounts of mysticism sincere evangelists had happened
others, inspired by the songs of the heathen poets, put his genius to of classic sensuality, pretending
in his works, with great imaginative power, fables erotic exploits of heroes, gods passions,
female nudity, but these painters, understanding and putting his hand in the tragedy of Calvary or
even to the greatness composition and pageantry of color, were able to fill that deep and
sincere emotion stirred the souls of the founders of the early schools. The Renaissance was founded
in the study of old, was revolution provechosísima art, because he taught her to love beauty heedless
of its origin: but making the fantasy prevail on piety, robbed in general and in particular
to painting naive that something mysterious and independent of any external condition that
seduces and captivates even the worshipers of the form.

The painting for over two centuries had been its sole seat in the churches, have dominion also
from the palaces, varied in nature and even when decorated temples, adorned like palaces.

Do not allow the extension of this modest work, but should look at
the welcome Here were the works of the Renaissance to see later how
his character changed and modified trends.

Carlos I must have been a great admirer of his creations, even those
where more shining free sensuality of paganism, because if it is true
that led him to retire to Yuste large number of devotional paintings,
years ago, as reported by Jusepe Martinez had sent Titian painting,
and a portrait, a few pictures of some poems, which, if not as human
take them by divine big shame for our religion!

Felipe II, when he wrote the same name Titian loved us, we charge
for Tables palaces such as Antiope, Venus and Adonis, and Diana and
Callisto, from which it inferred that it was not prudish in matters
of art, and Philip III and Philip IV, continued to meet similar works
in Madrid and the Pardo.

During this long period, which spans the sixteenth century in Spain dominates Italian taste in
relation to the expression elements that animate the paintings, the most illustrious Dutch, Antonio
Moro, for example, are only sought and followed as portrait painters.

In Valencia, Juan de Juanes paint and Ribalta, in Andalusia, Luis de Vargas, Alejandro Fernández
and the divine Morales. We in Italy, conscientiousness in the study of members of the body,
how to design and arrange the table, the use of light, contrasts and harmonies color, to the
styles and methods of execution, but the trend of the Renaissance
to art was, above all, performance of beauty, and born of the ideals
of the mind already provided in the works of nature, the broad and
open to the boldness Florentine, Roman and Venetian frescoes and deployed
his canvases found few converts in Spain.

The monarchs, whom the Church would not interfere your personal tastes sinful were, still adorning
the palaces and pleasure houses with profanity and mythology: Some lords, did the same, as
follows from what several writers refer at that time [7], but for most of the nation, the
art was a mere auxiliary of feeling religious.

Needless there who persists in denying the grounds that in addition to pictures devotees also
they painted a lot of other issues. To be persuaded of how unfounded this claim, just consider
that among the thousands of paintings of the seventeenth century, preserved in Spain, there are very
few they represent historical episodes or scenes of customs, and
instead is incalculable the number of those inspired by the Old or
New Testament, and the lives of the saints: to the vases were usually
arranged so that as a framework to some sacred image: Pictures were
made in abundance, as always well what lies in human vanity, and no
shortage of still lifes, because many artists taking the genre by
way of study: than just a trace, paint is domestic and family could
say.

Know the life of this century, foreign trips, which tended to exaggerate or lie, for files
documents that speak eloquently to dry and bland, for the theater, that lady's imagination is,
for the picaresque novel, which only raises rates class social, for writers, who always felt
particularly devout, were pleased censor customs, describing the way, but the stubborn brushes on
avoiding any representation of vulgar and profane, left us very few
data on how to live, work, crafts, entertainment, houses, rooms, furniture
and clothes of those knights and soldiers, clerics and students, merchants
and beggars, women, and adventurous comic and devout, matrons and
maids, whose patchwork know only morally, thanks Cervantes and Quevedo,
Tirso and Lope, Zabaleta and Salas Barbadillo, because the limited
painters conventional representation of the sacred profane contempt.

Undoubtedly felt intense love for real beauty, which gave proof watching to the holy figures that aspect
of truth, which they lost in HH, it gained in credibility, but it was not possible that nothing
around them every day they thought the subject worthy of use in this observation and his brushes,
when the voice of the Church, so feared and respected then told that life on earth and transitory,
is low and despicable thing compared of the eternal heaven. This is, in my humble opinion,
the cause of Spanish painting of that time is not used, how it serves the Northern countries
to complete the stadium of the country, reflecting the customs which is a way of reflecting the soul
of nationality.

In Italy, also failed to custom paint great importance, because there the art, thanks the culture
of the papacy, it became eminently monumental: but in the absence and with advantage can not
represent human and vulgar scenes arranged beautiful countryside artists Mythology and unlimited,
where there is no beauty that is not contained, as in his admirable myths, the gods of love
are equated sinning men, and men coming to Heroes for the effort, almost be mistaken for gods.

But
the foundation of the fables and myths, as the case for the arts offer is nude, and Spain,
for which governed the consciences, nudity and dishonesty were same thing. Anyone wishing to be
convinced of this read a few books of those great mystical writers desirable to glory and salvation
possible, had not only beauty, but even the mere bodily form like
a bait and spur of sin.

The author, indeed admirable prose writer whose name has been unjustly forgotten stories our
literature, that with more clarity and energy capable of expressing this hostility to the naked but he
naturally exaggerating its dangers, was the Carmelite Fray Jose de Jesus Maria .-- "The eyesight
- he says - is more effective than ear, and its objects snatched the mood more violence, and
so the motion is more intense awakening with dishonesty lewd pictures than with words, and species
are under repair and reports catch the eye than they are perceived by the ears, because the
words paint a thing absent or already passed, but the paintings are present ... And so the
painters when they fabulous figures and lascivious cooperate with
the devil, winning and increasing tax the kingdom of hell.

This introduction was pestilential, poisonous devil's work and trace particularly in these realms
because (as has been said), to take revenge on the land, Christianity, of having destroyed the
temples and idols which were worshiped in India, introduced in Europe Dishonest figures of naked
women [8].

Questioning or diminishing the strength of this way of thinking, it
is said that after writing such paragraphs, perhaps in those same
years, the monarchs decorated their palaces with works Veronese and
Titian, such that as the intransigence of the mystics could be classified
of sinful, and even that it brought several of Italy Velázquez Felipe
IV, but these paintings were imitated by our painters.

Writers on the arts participated in the same ideas, because although the sixteenth century,
some as Francisco de Hollanda, fell before the genius of the Italians, and others as Don Felipe
de Guevara, preferred to all the remnants of pagan art, instead of the seventeenth century, while
Rafael enthuse and Vinci, declared categorically that main subject of the painting is the glorification
of the faith. Carducho, among other claims seems to accept the opinion of a Greek monk named
Ignacio, says that the painters are ministers of the Word, sufficient attribute apostles, and building
on San Gregorio, San Juan Damascus and the Venerable Bede, says that the Holy Spirit succor
the human weakness the miraculous through the paint and paints the images are like history and
writing for those who are ignorant.

Pacheco, driven by equal fervor, writes that the purpose of painting is through imitation represent
the thing with the courage and property as possible ... and being in grace reach bliss, because
the Christian servant for holy things, not content in their operations to look so lowly ... so
that the painting was intended to resemble the imitated only now as an act of virtue, making
new and rich surcoat, and others resemble, rises for one ultimate purpose, looking to the eternal
glory.

Menéndez Pelayo, who has dealt brilliantly as it relates to our educational writers fine arts,
he says, after most widely copied those paragraphs: "This deep religious sense, or rather ascetic
Pacheco makes the theory a predecessor of spiritualism of Owerbeck, moves him to remove all
the paint eigenvalue considering it only as a way of speaking that
is aimed at persuading the people ... and take it to embrace something
convenient religion.

"

D. Juan de Butrón [9], in a book of insufferable culteranismo feel also the principle of the
taste of a painting, if wisely what we might receive, should rise to knowledge the love of God
and teach the principle that we proceed.

Although the precept that time less speculative and more practical, which was Jusepe Martínez
[10] great admirer of the Italian Catholic who advises the painter paints the choice of to
be made to be venerated not made extravagant postures and movements extraordinary, moving more to
worship indecency, and added elsewhere that religious paintings before
attending to the devotion and decorum that the imitated: reaching
to say to these professions of sculpture and painting has been introduced
to other nothing but to worship and veneration of their saints through
whom His Divine Majesty has acted endless miracles.

This was the concept of the sacred writers were painting and special writers. These doctrines rooted
so hard that a century later still reveal traits of superstition and fanaticism. Palomino Men's
as serious as speaking of a religious holy Charterhouse who had to be removed from the cell
image of Mary, of great perfection, for her great beauty caused him
to dishonesty and P. Ayala Interian exclaims indignantly: "Because
what's all the painting of the Virgin, teacher and model of all virgins,
outdoor head?

What blond hair spread out and lying on the white collar? What uncovered decently those breasts that
nursed the Creator of the world? What, finally paint their feet or totally naked or covered
with little decency? "[11]. So until the Conception Murillo, perhaps the most poetic expression of Catholic
art, became suspicious.

A proper attempt something I have stopped the above, but without insisting
that the matter allows, because such ideas were the cause of that
painting of that time, except the portrait, is limited to the religious
genre.

Without incurring the absurdity of rejecting this phase of the national spirit, let me lament
that their exclusivity would deprive us of other artistic.

But if in regard to the choice of issues, won the love of the supernatural, regarding how to treat
them as representing the human figure, the prevailing one essentially realistic sense. The painting
then creates only Christs and Virgins Santos, but does not give a perfect dream with features,
but by imitation bravest model, its beauty is not an offspring of the mind, not born of the
idea Raphaelesque short, but human nature itself. The types of apostles, martyrs and hermits,
are taken field and the underworld, or are old soldiers of Flanders and Italy: the artist without
caring to ennoble even clean them, put them on the altar and there are revered and adored: persuaded
to encourage and entice the imagination because they have southern
life: Spanish painting is created.

III

YOUTH OF VELAZQUEZ.

Don Diego Rodriguez de Silva y Velázquez was born in Seville, according to tradition, lack of
evidence Borers in the street: it was his father Juan Rodríguez de Silva, a native of Portugal,
but born and resident in Seville, and his mother Ms Jerónima Velázquez [12] was baptized in the
parish St. Peter's June 6, 1599.

Of the great painter's childhood nothing is known: presumably to study a few years with any
professor of humanities at the many who at that time had at Seville, but should not have this
very long literary apprenticeship. Cean Bermudez says, noting that his parents an inclination
the boy decided to painting, because I was always drawing in books
and pamphlets had put more successful in school by Francisco de Herrera
the old, well known for ease in painting as by the harshness of his
genius.

This was so bland condition and hard to put up his daughter for not got nun and her son stole
and fled to Italy. Its paintings reflected his character painted with extraordinary force, to
imitate those who, having Italy became excited state with the grace and elegance of Roman schools
and Florence. If this intransigence was the result of artistic ideals fought more or less or simply
the consequence of his character, nobody can know: the truth is that the disciples suffered
unwillingly and stopped short at his side. The man was intolerable to the teacher. Velázquez, perhaps
by choice or second thoughts on the initiative of their parents, because even had not reached
fourteen years, left the blacksmith's shop and went to Francisco Pacheco. The latter figure
is interesting, both for the self-worth, but because of the influence exercised in the future
of Velázquez.

It is not known for certain whether he was born in Seville, or if
he traveled Italy: what is certain is that he was a man of outstanding
culture and great prestige, painter preceptist and poet.

If I had not written more than verses one would remember him because
concept was damaged, disheveled and cool, without getting closer to
their models Herrera and Rioja, and his friend Góngora was assimilated
only objectionable thing.

Worshiped as a painter Italian-style and although nothing remains of his outstanding merit,
was greatly appreciated in his time, perhaps influencing this estimate before personal garments
powers art: his paintings are more accurate but as cold as his sonnets. Greco tried to Toledo
likened year 1612 without any of their good qualities.

Has passed to posterity because of what he wrote. He wrote in prose interspersed with verses the conversation
Peaceful between Thomistic and gathered, about the mystery of the Immaculate Conception, Our
Lady, and a pamphlet in defense of compatronato of Santa Teresa, which argued against Quevedo's opinion,
as is known, defended the exclusive patronage of Santiago. But composed two works because it deserves
to be estimated. The first is [13] Art painting its antiquity and greatness. In regard to the
relationship between art and religion is founded on the doctrine and guidance from the Jesuit friends
who helped him in his work, and it touches into practice is a reflection of the ideas of the
Neoplatonic writers of Florence. Book Description The true portraits is a collection of them, made
two pencils, they are from King Felipe II to artists who enjoyed popularity then and now are
forgotten: the most natural of others using copies, all interesting and the quality of the people
and for the excellence of the hand, and some very sober and masterly that worked before may
be of Velázquez Pacheco.

There was no shortage, however, in Seville during those years watching a poet who crucified Christ
Pacheco, where the performance was well under the thought, say:

Who put you well Lord so stark and so dry? You tell me that love I say we Pacheco.

In spite of this, the artistic and social merit of the teacher must have such respect their fellow
citizens who became mayor and overseer of the profession of painters, and the Holy Office having
regard to their wisdom and prudence had instructed him to look particularly carefully and visit
the sacred paintings of things that were in public places, giving to this committee, which is required
of law.

Not without reason called the Palomino to the house of Francisco Pacheco art golden prison
because were his friends and at different times due to read or present his or her work many illustrious
men. Fernando de Herrera, Pablo de Céspedes, Mr. Roelas, Martínez Montañez Juan de Malara,
Baltasar del Alcázar, the Carducho, Gongora, Jauregui, Alonso Cano, Quevedo, Rodrigo Caro, author
of the superb elegy to the ruins of Italica, and perhaps Miguel de Cervantes.

The intellectual atmosphere created by such artists and poets, of which some were already dead
and others still living, was the atmosphere that he breathed Diego Velázquez, who almost child Herrera
came to power, grim and scolding, original and uncompromising, he drew with canes burned and painted
with large brushes, and went to school a good man, peaceful, imitator of the Italians, whose
dwelling had to be prevailed academy where classical taste, the fruit of the neatest illustration,
but the classical order of reflection.

Here begins to emerge Velazquez's genius, because even people who live surrounded by by education
and a tendency, especially by the currents of the time, were keen
all spiritualism, although there ruled in doctrine and practice of
art, devotion the former Spanish and the Italian Renaissance, far
from bowing he easily the opinions of others began to work, keeping
only what Nature put before his eyes, stubbornly clinging to master
the form, realizing that things apparently lower, mean and rude are
pregnant beauty for those who can study them.

      While his teacher wrote
    that the painting is commendable
    because it can serve the glory
    of religion and the promotion of piety, the most celebrated painters
competed in the representation of appearances miracles and wonders,
inspired by faith, he did studies on animals, birds, fish and still
lifes in perfect imitation of nature.

 And never was there so devoted a nurse.

Sometimes she would read to me from one of the few books I had taken everywhere on my travels,
a page or two from my beloved Stevenson, a poem from my great-hearted Henley, a luminous passage
from my Thoreau. How those readings brought back the time when, tired of flicking the tawny
pools, I would sit on the edge of the boisterous little burn and read till the grey shadows
sifted down! I was so happy then, and I did not know it. Now everything seemed changed. Life
had lost its zest. Its savour was no longer sweet. Its very success was more bitter than failure.
Would I ever get back that old-time rapture, that youthful joy, that satisfaction with all
the world?

It was sweet prolonging my convalescence, yet the time came when I could no longer let her
wait upon me. What was going to happen to us? I thought of that at all times, and she knew
I thought of it. Sometimes I could see a vivid colour in her cheeks, an eager brightness in
her eye. Was ever a stranger situation? She slept in the little kitchen, and between us there
was but that curtain. The faintest draught stirred it. There I lay through the long, long night
in that quiet cabin. 

Palomino said that "compliance with the timeliness with which he always obeyed the orders of
His Majesty, and even fought against large storms reached the port of Barcelona for the month
of June, 1651 ', from which it follows that even took sixteen months
to return to Spain.

The impatience with which the King hoped would subside from fixed to see the acquisitions during
the journey had made on his own, as well as many molds or female, as then was said to empty classical
statues, paintings brought some outstanding merit: the beautiful picture of Venus and Adonis
[64], Paul Veronese, and purification of the virgins Midianites [65], the composition and state
clearly be oval for a roof, and the sketch Paradise [66], implemented with the same purpose
and intended for hall of the Great Council of Venice, both works
of Tintoretto.

Only these paintings have chosen the purest taste test the while predilection for the painters of that
republic.

The following year the space vacated palace chamberlain, sought by several suitors favored by
different characters that made up the Bure the expressing Velázquez
also requested in his memorial to the King "who has many years dealing
with the ornament and composure VM room with care and skill that a
VM is satisfied, and then he begs VM thanks for this occupation, it
is so tight to his genius and occupation "[67].

The King was chosen by Velázquez. The fact of having made this appointment after to return the
painter of Italy has led some to believe that it rewarded him spontaneously Felipe IV as well on that
occasion had served, but if this were true, no had taken eight months to award. In addition,
Velazquez asked the square. Among the applicants it included the head of the wax, more aid from
the furred and another employee of the royal house that could not count, so that the favor that
was the subject fell Velázquez to prefer others who, unable to demonstrate their craft artistic
taste had not of employment to serve as a painter who learned his
powers recently joined admiring the luxury and poise of Italian palaces.

[Image:

Morritt COLLECTION

Venus at her Mirror]

The quartermaster in charge of forcing the author of "The jump into something as important and issue
orders to clean the courtyards and corridors, "remove a guard black that was close to the Queen's
Chamber ", to report on how far the powers jack-aid of the furred and toilet boys, and precede
the King when he went to Brown, El Escorial and Aranjuez.

Velazquez, however, had to seek employment judging 'Adjusted to his genius and occupation.
"

To avoid interruption after the listing of the pictures that made our great painter, from for the
second time he returned from Italy until his last days, should address an issue now have been concerned
that Spanish scholars. I mean the memory called Velázquez.

Palomino wrote that "in the year of 1656 sent to Mr SM Diego Velázquez would lead to San Lorenzo
Real forty-one original paintings, some of them from the auction of the King of England Charles Stuart,
the first of that name, others brought Velázquez and others that gave SM D. García de Avellaneda
y Haro, Conde de Castrillo, who had been Viceroy of Naples, and time was president of the Council
of Castile, of which Velazquez made a description and Memory, which
gives notice of its qualities, stories and authors, and the sites
were placed, to manifest a. SM, with such elegance and property described
therein his erudition and vast knowledge of art, because they are
so excellent that he could only achieve the deserved praise.

"

No doubt, as this, that Velázquez, to comply with the order of the King, made a written consigning
I thought of the paintings and the place where they were placed, so that there Memory and was
prepared to show it SM Palomino After one, even Cean Bermudez, mentioned the paper until a few
years ago scholar Adolfo de Castro presented to the Academy Spanish
book which no one had said a word bibliophile, printed, apparently
with the exclusive purpose of preserving for posterity the great painter
that letter. Oh, stay,
stay!"

Her arms were round my neck. The grey eyes were full of pleading. The sweet lips had the old,
pathetic droop. I yielded to the empery of love.

"Well," I said, "we will go on awhile, on one condition--that by-and-bye you marry me."

"Yes, I will, I will; I promise. If you don't tire of me; if you are sure beyond all doubt
you will never regret it, then I will marry you with the greatest joy in the world."

So it came about that I stayed. Second and left standing out against a red curtain, a
cherub holding an ebony-framed mirror, which reflects the face of the goddess. Burger says,
that "is not distorted by any invention waist of civilization ', but enough to see a picture,
to see that the size retains traces pressure of the harsh and gossipy emballenada used by women
of that era. The execution and overall impression of color show that the canvas was painted
about the same years that Mars and Mercury and Argus. Although positioned and moved with supreme
elegance is Venus is not a goddess but a beautiful mortal. Emilio Michel tells her that "no
nothing in common with the classical deity who have used the works of Italian masters "[85].

And
who represented the immortal gods had to deal with greater consideration
philosophers who doubted them.

As if reading the author of the Dialogues of courtesans, which describes Menippus, old bald, dirty,
shabby and making fun of all wisdom, Velázquez painted the draft chapeo filthy and ragged
a cloak, under which, overlook the legs, covering foul means of coarse cloth and shoes for
that was an insult cleaning. Books and scrolls that are on their feet, are emblematic of the contempt
he inspires others, and even denotes the best smile among sly and skeptical that you pucker
your lips [86].

Aesop [87] is older and is no less shabby: a full dress, a tunic worn brown and dusty, wears a
hand in the chest, and the other leaning against the hip, says a thick parchment. The same with
these two Greeks and philosophers, Mars, Mercury and Argos, the Olympian deities: namely,
nothing. But if you designate how something Christening capricious and arbitrary, everything
else is in these amazing truth: you can not imagine more perfect types of this dirt and mess
with the body and clothes, continent and the face, accusing the disturbance of thought, of philosophy
proud the loss of reason there is only one step.

The Spinners [88] is the work so famous for all kinds of views that has no need Description:
In addition, the word is powerless to give an idea of ​​its main charms are the atmosphere and
color. No way to tell where and how they are arranged the figures, their types, postures,
gestures and clothes: the inexplicable is the life within them, the environment around them
and the distances between the bodies and different things, creating a as lively and movable
set as the same reality. The location of the scene is a workshop ancient tapestry factory of
Santa Isabel, the main characters are five workers delivered to the work. One, already old,
spinning wheel is spinning at around: with the left hand spins the wheel, the spokes seem to
vibrate the air: in the right hand holds the spindle, while naturally turns his head to speak with
a colleague who, while subject away from a heavy portiere. Another, opposite the composition and
sit back the viewer, left hand unravels the tangled skein in a holding reel on the right the ball,
while almost hear what he says one that comes close jovencilla bringing a basket. In the center, half
kneeling, is the fifth ordering or picking up packages wool scattered on the ground, and background,
in another second floor room enhanced, in a clearer atmosphere than the main action, wrapped
in the rays of the sun penetrate from the left, two gentle ladies entertaining mood to consider
a tapestry hanging from the wall and another that looks straight as if drawn by the beauty
of working the first that unravels the skein winder. This girl, who shows naked back, both
feet, arm and part of the left leg, is perhaps the most gallant female figure painted by Velázquez.
It seems to have taken refuge across the freshness, grace and vigor that is lacking in frail bodies
and faces of the princesses palisander and queens. The parties and members that cover the clothes
she displayed accused by folds of cloth, under his shirt and the underskirt is full and graceful
shapes guess, hard round, creating a type that could be a model of a statue erected to youth or
beauty. Can not articulate why, but their proportions, their attitude, how his head, the movement
does, how to extend the arm, delicately arching fingers, give in all a classic in the highest
sense of the word, and one happens to think that if discovered works of Greek artists would find
something like a gentle and graceful woman, beautiful and strong, having been born in Wonderland
is Lavapiés or worthy of having walked the streets of Athens and Corinth.

In another scene so natural and simple as that shown in Velázquez
created Spinners a wonder more: Las Meninas [89].

The origin and time, so to speak, the box is easy to rebuild. Velázquez was portraying the Kings
when entertaining in their games came to stand by him the Infanta Margarita with her meninas and
dwarves, the group formed by the royal seduce parents the child as much as the artist and
would remember that it put an to work.

To the left of the composition, palette and brushes touch, this Velázquez stands before a large canvas
that looks at the back, in an attitude of looking to the Kings, whose figures are reflected in a black
frame mirror placed on the wall. In the center is the Infanta Margarita, which is four or five
years, richly dressed, in an attitude of taking a vase of water it presents respectful attitude,
coming from the left, the gracious Dona Maria Agustina Sarmiento. In the same line again right menina
no less graceful, Dona Isabel de Velasco, and the dwarf Maribárbola huge ugly face and head look
ahead to where Kings sit, before this horrible creature lying there on the floor and dozing a
mastiff seems ready to rise and run gently to avoid further harassment foot Nicolasito Pertusato, happy
little elves urgently, slender and well dressed as a toy alive, whose position and movement would
not surprise best a snapshot.

[Image: MUSEO DEL PRADO

The Spinners

FRAME.

M. Moreno]

After this group Velasco, dwarves and the dog are standing together two people talking of servitude,
a severe guardadamas dressed in black and Dona Marcela de Ulloa, Mrs of honor to play that
seem monastic. Occupy the right wall of windows and spaces intermediate between them: in the
fund is in the top two boxes, under up the mirror which reflected the busts of Dona Maria and
Philip IV, and finally term paneled door opens strongly illuminated by light from another room
emphasis on the intense radiance of the hole, the figure of the Queen's chamberlain, with the
hand on a curtain. The main characters that occupy the forefront of composition, Infanta, young
ladies, dogs and dwarfs, are illuminated from the front and from top to bottom: Velázquez is
something in shadow next to the guardadamas dark suit, emphasize the bust gentle and the sympathetic
face of the lady of the play and deep contrast and differ in different intensity of light reflected
from the surface of the mirror and the direct and intense penetrates through the door. Surprising
at first glance the ceiling height of this room but soon explains the observation that serves
to give an exact idea of ​​the proportions of bodies, and also to contribute to the illusion
of distance, effects achieved in this immortal work, rather than with lines and colors, with
the combination and contrast of lights, insulating objects and people, makes them seem surrounded
breathing air.

Reason the beauty of Las Meninas, explaining what they are and to
cause printing so deep, would be to write a course in optics, applied
to painting.

After describing this work can not be beaten Palomino, that "His Majesty was highly esteemed, and
as it was frequently attended to her painting, and also the Queen our Lady Dona Maria Ana de Austria
baxaba many times, and the Princesses and Ladies Ladies, estimating it by pleasant Deleyte and
entertainment. Placed himself in the quarto Baxo of His Majesty, in part clearance among other
excellent, and having come at this time Lucas Jordan, reaching to her, and asked the Lord Charles
II saw him as stunned: What do you think?

And he said: Lord this is the Theology of Painting: trying to imply that just as theology
is the top of the sciences, and that was what quadro top of the painting. "

Jordan Lucas's phrase, is to conceptualize and elaborate, but more or less, the same have then
come to say some modern writers. Theophile Gautier to see Las Meninas, for the first time, as
if it confuses the real with the painting, asked: "But where is the picture?" Paul Saint-Victor
told him three different atmospheres: Lefort says, which is the last word of realistic painting
and text: Stirling said there Velázquez 'seems to have advance the
discovery of Daguerre and taking a group gathered in a room, has as
by magic forever printed on the canvas' Stevenson says this work "is
something unique and absolute in the history of art.

"

Nobody believes now that tradition that Philip IV painted chest of the figure of Velázquez the
Cross of Santiago. First Don Pedro de Madrazo and Villamil Crusade with documents Palace and
then permanently Beruete a data file of the military orders have made clear when Velázquez
was granted the Order of Santiago. According to news the latter has collected and sorted, the
card issuance is signed by the King in 12 June 1658. On July 15 Velázquez presented his own handwritten
genealogy Council of the Order, which formed the necessary records to evidence: the same day decided
the Council which opened in Monterrey and Tuy information for what is referred to the ascending
paternal line, and Seville to the mother. Don Gaspar de Fuensalida paid bail of 300 ducats,
the trial lasted several months, and she said Carreño, Zurbarán, Angelo Nardi, the Marquis of
Malpica, Portuguese Marquis of Montebello and Alonso Cano, which states "never heard that Velázquez
practiced the trade of painter and has sold paintings but that made for fun in obedience to
the King for beautification of the Palace, where he held honorable
positions.

"

This, after the famous decision of the Royal Council of Finance to exempt from payment of sales tax
and recognizing the painting as a liberal art, as in the accounts
of continuously Bureo spoke of payments and arrears collected by Velazquez
as a painter of the King, is most sadly comedian you can imagine and
what looks better then the foolish vanity.

Concluded the evidence, the Board approved Orders age, purity of blood and descent by a straight
line, but not considered noble to Velázquez by the father or mother, and although the painter
testified that his ancestors had not ever paid tribute called white beef and nobles who were
exempt, the opinion was negative, and Philip IV, had to ask the pope immunity because of lack
of nobility. Came the brief signed by the Pontiff Albano on October 7, 1659, and was still necessary
for the king to make the painter hidalgo that could be crossed: at last November 27 of that year,
extended the order gave him mercy as desired. Palomino account, the next day, Prince's birthday
Felipe Prospero, was held the ceremony of taking the habit, and returning Palacio Velazquez, SM
was very well received. And in a different place of work concerned, that after death, the King
had in figure painting Las Meninas, is painted the cross on his chest
Santiago.

This gives us the opportunity to speak on how often portrayed Velázquez.

In museums and private collections abroad, there are many portraits of him which is supposed
made by himself. Bürger, in the catalog that added to the work of Stirling, cites seven: Lefort,
spoke again if done if the verified famous charts so far century, would be forced to admit that
Don Diego spent much of his life portraying. In fact, excluding that "for admiration of the well
understood and honored art 'is boasted of having Pacheco [90], painted in Italy during the
first trip and believed lost There are four undoubted authenticity, and the like, and by compositions
that include: that of Spears, the Museum of Valencia, made a few years after that as few as
have studied and copied, has suffered greatly from ravages of time and repainting or restoration
unskilled, the Vatican Museum, [91] most remarkable for its implementation, while being close
forty years, and finally the Las Meninas. In this, despite the modest placed in the second
term of the composition and almost in shadow, is perceived very well. He was dark of face, lively
eyes, so abundant hair, which is perhaps wig, gentle figure, handsome and graceful, with the
male beauty, which is before the nice expression the natural appearance and elegance of the
person to correct the lines: type much of their land which could be accepted as the personification
of the Spanish knight of time.

It should be noted in this portrait, which Don Diego was born in 1599, and painted the picture
in 1656, does not represent the fifty-seven years had.

In the opinion of many, that perhaps sin of light, Velazquez became religious affairs. According
to them, their tendency to mere imitation of what he could see and was opposed to observe exaltation
of spirit necessary to conceive and represent people divine mysteries and miracles. In my
humble opinion has been greatly exaggerated in this regard. It was certainly a mystic, a gulf between
the loving admiration of his paintings reveal Nature and contempt of the body, the carnal envelope
the damaged vessel, as they call works theologians of the time, and performers whose doctrine
became almost all painters. Velasquez felt that worship the way, by itself, which is the characteristic
feature of great artists: perhaps he saw the beauty in the main manifestation of the supreme
goodness and did not like to undermine its charms. When he tried ugliness, like clowns, wrapped those
insults to nature in the moral splendor of truth is clear: but never to express certain ideas deprived
the human form of its wonders and beauties. It did not, could not emaciated Christs pure ugly,
graceless Virgin on the strength of love represent purity, dripping blood martyrs, hermits, cadaverous,
consumed faces nor members were abused and unknown where the dignity of form, which is also praise
for the Creator: he had to love before God who creates, preserves
and enhances that who destroys, annihilates and ugly, was a believer
and not fanatical.

His paintings attest. The Adoration of the Kings is neither more nor less than what they did
other artists of that time, Zurbarán for example: but Christ scourged, London, even after the
execution preserves the beauty of force and the crucified Christ,
Madrid, at the time of death shines with purity of its lines: in both
cases gave the figure divine beauty by attribute.

Here are the other two compositions of matter, painted a Christian,
and persuade us that without being absorbed by the gloomy asceticism
dominated his contemporaries, knew express poetic and severely religious.

In

the Coronation of the Virgin, [92] he made to the oratory of the second wife of Philip IV,
with the exception of heads of Christ and the Eternal Father, you really are vulgar and lacking
majesty, everything else is typical of a fervent believer. If we disregard in Spanish art Conceptions
of Murillo, and Flemish schools of the old Virgin, represented with unparalleled simplicity and purity,
what is more noble countenance and divinely human than Virgin of the canvas? And the glory
bathed in light, and the heads of seraphim, involved in very clear brilliance, what they have
to envy the heavens and the angels great Murillo?

However, this is perhaps the most discussed painting of Velazquez, even in terms color: because,
although some critics and artists consider it marred by bitter contrasts and dissonance between almost
vinous red amaranth, and the intense blues, others believe that is the work which managed to
be more colorful, showing his preference for the Venetian masters and their taste in fashion Greco.
This view is my view that is right: for although carmine and purple robes of the Eternal Father,
Jesus and the Virgin, taken in isolation, may seem unpleasant to the eye, they are not thanks to the skill
and good taste, superior all praise, with its tones are twinned by a series of gradations in between
that dominate the gray, and pale, and intense, bright and silvery, coming to form delightful
harmony, and perhaps the most brilliant color printing devised Velázquez. For Finally, the general
tone of this painting, which may cause an unfavorable effect museum, would fixed calculated
according to the decoration and adornment of the chapel where he was to appear.

In San Antonio Abad visiting San Pablo, hermit [93], is not lacking either religious spirit but,
by contrast, has the stage all the austere character that requires its nature. No Velázquez
was in anticipation of the demands of local color fidelity and calling criticism modern, giving
the characters and the site itself Eastern appearance they should have. San Paul, fleeing persecution
Décio organized in time, passed by the lower Thebaid the desert, and those places were not easy
to study for an artist in mid- seventeenth century, assuming it occurred, but he, with superior
instinct, sought a place imposing solitary grandeur, perhaps the most abrupt Guadarrama, and
there among huge rocks at the entrance of a Espelunca, placed severe hermits positions, held anointing
and full of dignity. So well calculated disparity between their figures and colossal grandeur
of the rocks gives the whole look solemn contrast which is the grandeur of nature with human
smallness. The Raven is in the air leaving and falling with wings folded, bringing the bread
in its beak and black feathers highlighting its greyish tone on the rocks: San Antonio provides
admired the prodigious bird, and San Paul, with hands joined and raised, looking up to heaven in
thanksgiving. Poor tree branches more sad that remote corner of the world, and far away a lazy
river glides the plain of the valley, where the manner of the ancient tablets of devotion, are
represented compositions in small isolated episodes in the life of the Hermit, the devil, comes
to tempt him, his death and the lions that you gently dig the grave with their claws. The light
is intense, clean environment, if the ground seems sad, the sky is bright and cheerful and the
glory promised to the virtue of those saints.

Velázquez made this picture for the chapel of San Antonio, at Retreat,
and was his last work.

In it, as if he sensed it, given the extent of their knowledge: if at first glance, seduce, examined
slowly because deep impression: This voluntary executed inequality increases the effect that causes
the countryside, earth, rocks, sky and background events with rapid mastery; figures, particularly
the heads, carefully constructed, without prejudice smallness not wane the impression produced,
because just that look, as if they grew, they seem natural size.

If you are looking at art, idealism and poetry, no one at this painting
will doubt that Velazquez the lover of reality, which should never
have to paint what he saw, was one of those geniuses that the love
of nature and Aureole confused all the beauty they conceive.

Year of 1659, adjusted the call Peace of the Pyrenees, between France
and Spain, giving it definitely sovereignty in Roussillon, Cerdanya
and Artois.

Was guaranteed treated the marriage of the daughter of Philip IV, María Teresa, with his cousin
Louis XIV France, and had agreed to verify delivery of the Infanta on the island of Pheasants
there was Velázquez preceding Kings to prepare your accommodation and jewelry the house was
called the Conference.

For books and relations of the time [94] it is known that in that
interview the Court of Spain deployed improper pomp and disastrous
occasion, but if this error was the son of real vanity or wooing,
Velázquez meet its obligation to decorating the rooms with tapestries
from the palace, some of which are preserved and tested the taste
with our great painter chose them.

Many historians have described the act of delivering the Infanta make mention of the contrast that
both Cortes formed: the French ladies were presented dressed with exquisite elegance ours marred
by their ridiculous farthingales and tontillos, but instead the Knights
of Louis XIV were overloaded with bows, ribbons and bows while wearing
the graceful Spanish silk dress and velvet black, enameled chest for
some red or green venerates the Military Orders.

"It was Don Diego Velázquez - Palomino said - that on this day showed less affection in the
ornament, adornment and glory of his person, as his kindness and art together, they were courteous,
without compromising care in natural grace and composure, he illustrated many diamonds, and
stones precious in the color of the fabric is not to admire is beyond
many, it was superior knowledge of them, which always showed very
great pleasure, all the dress was trimmed with rich silver points
of Milan, in the style of that time, it was ruff, but color, even
in the days, in the layer of roxa logo, a beautiful espadin with Silver
lining and tip, with exquisite relief work carved in Italy, a thick
gold chain around his neck, pending the scallop trimmed lots of diamonds
that was glazed the habit of Santiago, where the other ends for dressing
so precious.

"

The hardships of that use of room that he needed a whole man, accrued with the trip to the Pyrenees,
undermined the health of Velázquez. All his biographers have taken Palomino regard to its death
extracting more or less, here is copied in full, because the closer the event pen that tells more of
reality lends color:

"When Velazquez entered his home, was received from his family, and friends with more astonishment
that joy, having been disclosed in the Court of his death, which almost could not believe the view;
seems to have been a harbinger of what little they lived afterwards.

"Saturday day of San Ignacio de Loyola, and last July, having been Velázquez the whole morning
attending to his Majesty, he felt fatigued with some burning, so that forced him to go down
the hall to your home.

He began to feel great distress and difficulties in stomach and heart, Dr. Vicencio visitole Moles,
Family Doctor, and Majesty careful of his health, sent to Dr. Miguel de Alva, and Dr. Pedro de
Chavarri, Medical Chamber of His Majesty, being seen, and knowing
the danger they said was beginning of tertian syncopal minutes subtle,
dangerous affection for the high resolution of spirits, and was constantly
thirsty, large sign shows the danger of this disease mortal.

 In his grip of steel they struggled to free themselves
in vain. They backed, they writhed, they twisted in a bow. With his huge hands he was choking
them, choking them to death, using them as a shield against the other three. Then slowly he
worked himself into a sitting position. He hurled one of the dogs to the tent door. He swung
bludgeon blows at the others. They fled yelping and howling. He still held the Mackenzie River
bitch. Getting his knee on her body, he bent her almost into a circle, bent her till her back
broke with a snap.

Then he rose and freed himself from the remaining thongs. He was torn and cut and bleeding,
but he had triumphed.

"Oh, the devil!" he growled, grinding his teeth. "He would have me chewed to rags by malamutes."

He stared around.

"He's taken everything, the scum! left me to starve. Ha! one thing he's forgotten--the matches.
At least I can keep warm."

He picked up the canister of matches and relit the stove.

"I'll kill him for this," he muttered. "Night and day I'll follow him. I'll camp on his trail
till I find him. Then--I'll torture him; I'll strip him and leave him naked in the snow."

He slipped into his snowshoes, gave a last look around to see that no food had been left, and
with a final growl of fury he started in pursuit.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ahead of him, ploughing their way through the virgin snow, he could see the dragging track
of the long snowshoes. He examined it, and noted that it was sharp and crisp at the edges.

"He's got a good five hours' start of me! Travelling fast, too, by the length of the track."

He had a thought of capturing the dogs and hitching them up; but, thoroughly terrified, they
had retreated into the woods. To overtake this man, to glut his lust for revenge, he must depend
on his own strength and endurance.

"Now, Jack Locasto," he told himself grimly, "you've got a fight on your hands, such a fight
as you never had before. Get right down to it."

So, with head bowed and shoulders sloping forward, he darted on the track of the Worm.

"He's got to break trail, the viper! and that's where I score. I can make twice the time. Oh,
just wait, you little devil! just wait!"

He ground his teeth vindictively, and put an inch more onto his stride. He was descending a
long, open valley that seemed from its trackless snows to have been immemorially life-shunned
and accursed. Black, witch-like pines sentinelled its flanks, and accentuated its desolation.
And over all there was the silence of the Wild, that double-strong solution of silence from
which all other silences are distilled, and spread out. Yet, as he gazed around him in this
everlasting solitude, there was no fear in his heart.

"I can fight this accursed land and beat it out every time," he exulted. 

With scripts, privileges, grants, contracts and other papers that researchers laborious found in
the archives, we know that in the Middle Ages artists were here notables whose works are lost;
many references, or descriptions of what they did and even in some cases there is the amount that
they received in payment, but the truth is since Don Lazaro Diaz del Valle and Cean Bermudez
until today, few writers have tried to clarify the origins of our painting have done because
they could do nothing thing, rather than shuffling a few hundred names and repeat the same
news. There are many proactively ensure that artists were at that time know where habilis although
learned, how they began to form, and how various trends or ideals inspired. The only thing certain
is that in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries monarchs, municipalities and councils employ
them splendidly remunerated services to, proof that liked his work. Even in summaries of the most
vulgar of art history that Julian Alfonso Perez worked for the Wise, and Rodrigo Esteban for
Sancho IV, that Torrent Raymundo and painted the Fort Miguel Zaragoza in the Italian manner and
that John CESIL adjusted with a church altarpiece Reus more than three hundred guilders.

Since the early fifteenth century artists displayed and whose work
has more knowledge and some are retained, albeit very difficult to
specify the names of their authors.

 Ah! I'll try and roast a bit of them."

He cut a strip from the Indian boots he was wearing, and held it over the fire. The hair singed
away and the corners crisped and charred. He put it in his mouth. It was pleasantly warm, but
even his strong teeth refused to meet in it. However, he tore it into smaller pieces, and bolted
them.

At last the dawn came, that evil, sneaking, corpse-like dawn, and Locasto flung himself once
more on the trail. He was not feeling so fit now. Hunger and loss of blood had weakened him
so that his stride insensibly shortened, and his step had lost its spring. However, he plodded
on doggedly, an incarnation of vengeance and hate. Again he examined the snowshoe trail ever
stretching in front, and noticed how crisped and hard was its edge. He was not making the time
he had reckoned on. The Worm must be a long way ahead.

Still he did not despair. The little man might rest a day, or oversleep, or strain a sinew,
then-- Locasto pictured with gloating joy the terror of the Worm as he awoke to find himself
overtaken. Oh, the snake! the vermin! On! On!

Beyond a doubt he was growing weaker. Once or twice he stumbled, and the last time he lay a
few moments before rising. He wanted to rest badly. The cold was keener than ever; it was merciless;
it was excruciating. He no longer had the vitality to withstand it. It stabbed and stung him
whenever he exposed bare flesh. He pulled the parka hood very close, so that only his eyes
peered out. So he moved through the desolation of the Arctic Wild, a dark, muffled figure,
a demon of vengeance, fierce and menacing.

He stood on a vast, still plateau. The sky was like a great grotto of ice. The land lay in
a wan apathy of suffering, dumb, hopeless, drear. Icy land and icy sky met in a trap, a trap
that held him fast; and over all, vast, titanic, terrible, the Spirit of the Wild seemed to
brood. 

In 1642 the insurgency worsened in Catalonia and giving Felipe IV at the request of his wife Isabella,
ordered the Principality day rebellious out of that inaction, interrupted only to hunt in the Pardo
or see plays in the Retiro. But the Queen's desire is not fulfilled only half because the
Conde-Duque, against what she wanted with him, does that travel is slow. Go to Aranjuez by
Alcalá, detiénense Party in Cuenca Molina hunt and finally arrive at Zaragoza. There, although
the Spanish army was 45,000 French men and went about Monsoon, he convinces the King private
that should not take the field and leaving you entertained in view from a window playing ball,
He wanders around the city twice a day with an entourage of twelve cars and four soldiers.
This prolongs the stay of the Court in Zaragoza and Velazquez, before and servant as an artist,
has been serving SM, acquaintance of the painter Jusepe Martínez.

They must be real friends, because at the request of Velázquez was appointed painter to the
King Aragon and this camera to write his book of the noble rehearsed Art Painting took few occasions
could to heaping praise on the Seville.

Episode of little importance, but as in Velázquez's all interesting, here's what Martinez has
a case that happened there, "Diego Velázquez Being in this city Zaragoza, attending SM, of
glorious memory, a gentleman asked him to make him a portrait of a daughter of his beloved: he removed
with a delight that you came out with great excellence; finally as his hand made was the head,
for the remainder of the body, not to tire the lady, brought him to my house to finish, which was
half a body, carried him beyond the end a gentleman's house, watching the lady said that no case
had received the portrait: and asking his father what it was based, said, that at all, did
not like, but the Walloon particular she wore when he portrayed was very fine points of Flanders' .-- Reason
Jusepe Martinez had to say that doing portraits' are holding a man to hear many simplicities and ignorance.
"

By this time the Queen, always opposed to bad art with the private ruling, intensified in their efforts
to overthrow him trying to shake off the shameful Felipe IV guardianship in which he lived.
As missing money for the war has provided the bulk of her jewelry to a jeweler Cortizos and sent
her husband eight hundred thousand crowns: they needed more, and the Conde de Castrillo Zaragoza
ordered his remaining jewels, thus seeing the Count-Duke threatened by the impression that such
noble conduct causes in the minds of Philip IV, and wishing to counteract closely, determined
to return to Madrid in December, but his fall was inevitable. Isabel Bourbon succeeded her husband
in private conferences to hear his mother Dona Ana Guevara, who was always seen, the Conde
de Castrillo and especially the Duchess of Mantua that recently arrived from Portugal, I would
say the real causes of the loss of that kingdom, giving these interviews resulted in the following
January when it came to choosing bondage and fourth in the Palace for the Prince Baltasar Carlos,
who was already looking, the King imposed its will on private vigorously, first naming the servants
who wanted, and as regards the room saying, "Why Conde will be better at that than you are now
living, which is typical of the firstborn of the King and he was my father and me was when we were
princes? Desocupadlo immediately, and take home from Palace. " Won the Queen gave Olivares the
secret key that the camera was real and came from Madrid, apparently with permission to retire
to his villa in Loeches, actually threatened, if she did not leave soon, that Felipe IV made
him what his father had done to Don Rodrigo Calderon. Like all has been in a position to do
favors, would Olivares ungrateful in court, but it was not Velázquez them, as almost all his
biographers assert that he remained loyal to the fallen and some clearly states that he visited
during his exile.

Jobs played in Hall also forced him to travel in 1644 to accompany the King.

Lleida besieged by the French, Philip IV took the field in awe of his contemporaries that, praising
him a lot, leave as stated in numerous writings, referring to details of the trappings that
went down, telling that the soldier was dressed in yellow and red, which took given part in the
battle to lift the siege of Lerida and entered it in triumph with costume "buff, silver and
gold embroidery, gold embroidered red band and pearl white hat." Prior to the win the royal
party remained several weeks in Fraga: there was enabled a study in a local so bad that we
had to shore it up, they fell on the floor loads bulrush, and in three days did a portrait Velázquez
SM to be sent to Madrid with that very colorful dress that came into
the city surrendered.

They also portrayed the dwarf called Cousin, who was in the procession, and who, with others
of their ilk, will speak later.

Died that same year, 1644 Isabel de Borbón, whose intelligence and perhaps noble purposes have managed
to overcome the phlegmatic, indolent condition of her husband, made the new journey accompanied
by the Prince Don Baltasar Carlos as heir to the throne I swear the Parliament of Aragon and
Valencia, and with them went Velazquez, but this issue books and papers is interesting news to
our purpose: rather than as a painter, would as a servant, which
proves one of two things: it was so little master of himself, he could
not avoid those occupations unworthy of his genius, or that the King
was not considered as happened without him.

In 1646 Philip IV solves another trip to the lands of Aragon and Navarra by the day and also
leading to the Prince. Velazquez goes with them, this time accompanied by Mazo, who request of Don
Baltasar Carlos depicts the view of Pamplona, ​​the table remains, and the Zaragoza, who is in
the Museo del Prado, which are hand of his father, though they deny foreign critics as illustrious
as Armstrong and Justi, extremely elegant figures of the first term,
made with remarkable ease and grace, addressed so that, despite its
size, have the appearance and character of natural [53].

Unfortunately ended this trip, as the Prince died in Zaragoza to October 9, lacking only a few days
to meet seventeen. A peculiar thing related to knowledge worth the time knowing that the Dutch
gentleman Aarsens of Somerdyck, which came shortly later to Spain, regardless of the cause of
the disease, saying that Don Pedro of Aragon, gentle Man of the House of SA, let him spend a night with
a prostitute, of which it originated great weakness and fever: doctors, unaware of the origin of
the disease, bled, accelerating death, and Don Pedro, by consent or not to reveal too much early,
fell from grace though it was private brother, castigándosele with no return to the court and to
live obligándosele at one end of the city without being allowed to make or receive visits ostentation
[54]. As the natives of other nations who come to our own travel writing course his impressions
and adventures not often distinguished by careful and truthful, but err on neglected and lying,
it could be that the Prince did not die of what the Dutch referred. Fray Juan Martinez, who was
confessor to the King and was in Zaragoza when the sad event, Dr. Andrew wrote at length saying
that the disease was smallpox [55]. Instead Matías de Novoa, in his History of Philip IV, narrates
the death with extreme brevity. The letter In those days the King wrote to Sister Mary of
Agreda test on his aching soul for such a great misfortune, Christian resignation prevailed and
triumphed over the pain of a father. Two years later, excluding other links with Ana Maria
de Bourbon, Duchess of Montpensier with Princess Leonor of Mantua and an Archduchess of Inspruck,
his wife agreed to niece, Dona Mariana of Austria, whose marriage was arranged with the poor before
Prince dead in Zaragoza.

All authors who have written the history of fine arts in Spain have that, having attempted
to collect sales tax tribute to painters, the latter, represented by Angelo Nardi and Vicente Carducho,
litigated to demand that the painting was considered an exempt liberal arts. Statements made
on that occasion by eminent men are curious. Dr. Juan Rodriguez de León witnessed with the Holy
Scripture, that the painting came from Heaven, as revealed, for God commanded Ezekiel to paint
the city of God in a brick brought out that Cosimo de Medici, went to Spoleto to bury Fra Filipo
Lippi and spoke estimation afforded by Charles I to Titian, and by Philip II to Sofonisba Cremonense.
Lope de Vega said: "Outside wrong that makes our nation, the other would be taken Barbados, not
believing for art that is with so much veneration in Europe. "Don Juan the Jauregui said that "make
use of the hands is no accident that does not offend the wit and ingenuity Desta sum science,
but having to achieve their effects in the eyes of all uses of colors and hands as he and philosopher
of pen and ink. " The Master Joseph Valdez spoke of what John Bellino honored seniority of Venice,
Durer Emperor Maximilian Andrea Mantegna, the Marquis of Mantua, and Raphael Pope Leo X, and Don
Antonio de Leon, rapporteur the Supreme Council of the Indies, after considering the issue
as a lawyer, wrote in the style of the time that "when human industry, with glimpses of divine
and a spell of eyes, in fantastic shapes, fulfilling the most noble of the senses steal the brushes
to nature, and apparently does not yet soul has a body, what law, what reason can deny the most
singular privilege or less restrained exemption? A much eminence gave the mechanical imposition
of the sales tax. "

When Velazquez was living in Madrid is a curious book printed [56] where all this has, and in
1633 the Treasury Board ruled the suit pursuant to the desire of painters. Does need more
to understand that the enlightened men of that time, although they express with such twisted
statements, knew and proclaimed the respect it deserves art. Despite Diego Velázquez which
was still more than a painter, servant of the King, or rather, was a servant who painted. And
it does not allege in excuse of Philip IV that does not honor otherwise part of a common error
to his contemporaries. What is not without grace is that almost all the characters who contributed to
that information thought to flatter the King consigning SM also painted.

This

was the years passed, no one tried to collect sales tax painters, Velazquez, dignified even
after his art with the famous relief, continued to appear on the payroll Alcazar's servers.
Evidence that is not distinguished and were pampered sites it was intended in bullfights, in
which they were entitled to attend many Palacio dependent. In the runs of 1640 he was appointed
seat on the fourth floor Bakery House, appearing in the same list as the groom of the Conde-Duque,
barbers Chamber, merchants and servants of the King of the Marquis del Carpio. In 1648, his name is
better company, is on the fourth floor, at the Puerta de Guadalajara, GREFi near the Tuson.
When King did not attend the order was exchanged, and then I could sit on the third floor houses the
Bakery cuddle near the grooms SM, some senior officials of state, doctors and the deputy House
packer more [57].

Apparently not important in the study of his life as an artist the
nature of the charges played, but if we look to serve the time wasted
on that could exploit painting, are what posterity will have lost it.

Was usher from 1627 to 1634, aid wardrobe until 1643, no exercise,
and with him until 1645; valet without exercise from 1643 to 1646.

Upon returning to Madrid, after Zaragoza last day, would make the annoying chores typical of such
sinecure; most of which were deeply imbued with the concerns of the time, that being a servant
of His Majesty looked so honored that up on the covers of his works to record writers was
natural that wanted some rest and freedom according to their inclinations and temperament artist.
After having gone several times with the royal entourage touring the provinces, where what could
be gradually learn, perhaps think, although it was already forty-nine, according to your taste
in travel, study and enjoyment. The fact of having appointed overseer works that were made in the
old tower of the Alcázar to make octagonal piece of speaking real archival documents, must
promote its purpose, and perhaps would contribute to determine the pictures come up to acquire
King for ornament of that part of the palace that was reforming. The fact is that in practical
discourse, talking about Velazquez Martínez Jusepe account the following: "SM Propúsole I wanted to
do a gallery adorned paintings, and for this we seek master painters to choose from them the
best ' to which he replied: "Your Majesty must not have pictures that each man may take them."
His Majesty replied: "How must this be?" And Velazquez said: "I dare, sir, (if VM gives me license),
go to Rome and Venice to find the best pictures and fairs who are Titian, Paolo Veronese,
Bashan, Raphael Urbino, the Parmesan and the like, which of these such paintings are very few princes
who have them, and in such quantity as V. M. diligence will I do, and more that will need to
decorate the lower parts antique statues, and we could have not be emptied and females bring Spain,
to empty after every performance here. "" SM diol license - just saying Martinez - to return
to Italy with all the necessary facilities and credit. "

Judging by the many beautiful works of art brought to the King, this was the cause of his second
trip to Italy not as noted by some to be decided by then found Academy in Madrid projected in the
previous reign.

Before starting out, trying pool resources, called paid him arrears owed some consideration
to who was not lavishly paid, and because they see how far the disorder in the administration
of the royal house, here is the order issued by Philip IV to collect:

"Diego Velázquez has shown me that the paintings he has done for my service since the year 628
to 640, and the tricks of a painter of the years from 630 to 634,
failed the entry, you must subtract 34,000 real, because otherwise
been paid in I sent him 500 ducats in the regular wage of the waiver
for months, from 640, pleading to be served in order that these 500
ducats will meet at 700 and are paid in the same consignment until
your liking to accommodate you in anything equivalent to being able
to support, that will be satisfied of this debt and other paintings
he has done and do that on, and I have come to give what he asks,
the Bureo provide that well run, preventing the necessary arrangements.

Madrid May 18, 1648. (Category of King). "

Until five months she did Bureo case: Finally, in October the same year marked the decree.

Hallab then prepared to leave Madrid embassy headed by very numerous the Duke of Nájera and escorted
by twenty-four soldiers of the Spanish guards had to pick Trento to the Archduchess Dona Mariana
of Austria, the future wife of the King. Many people would with Duke over other lords, was in
his company upholsterer, pastry beds, pharmacists, usher of tubers and greengrocers official
[58].

Without doubt walk more comfortably and safely, Velazquez joined the procession and this made
say good Palomino "was sent by His Majesty's Ambassador Extraordinary
to Italy the Pope Innocent X ".

The truth is that King, in order of November 25, 1648, ordered than "Diego Velázquez to his
valet about this trip to Italy, to things of the Royal service, you give the coach he plays for his
office, and a pack horse to carry more some paintings' in which, accompanied by his slave [59]
Juan de Pareja, Madrid, left November 16 and arrived in Malaga where the fleet sailed, Thursday
January 21, 1649.

The trip should not be entirely happy, because Mascarene referring to one of the galleys Fleet,
said he suffered serious storm in the Gulf of Lions, being necessary to throw the Water artillery,
and another came in Genoa when everyone thought lost. Genoa passed Milan Velazquez "but did not
stop to see the entrance to the Queen to be prevented with great display ... no longer see the
Last Supper of Christ with his apostles, the successful work of hand Leonardo de Vinci 'very
natural feature on an artist who talks about being sick of the ceremonies palate of the Court
of the Habsburgs. Padua passed quickly and stood in Venice, where spent twelve thousand crowns
in five tables and tried in vain to move like Pedro de Cortona Spain at the service of Philip
IV, getting, instead, that they did some time after Colonna and Mitelli. Bologna came out to
greet the Earl of river to a mile from the city: in Florence, Modena and Parma stopped shortly
and without stopping long at Rome, went to Naples, and because there were easier to collect funds
from Spain to send him, or because had orders to receive the Viceroy, Conde de Oñate, who had
charged Felipe IV take care of compliance as it related to the purpose of the trip. Neither this
nor obedience Bank meeting with the Españoleto still lived there, I entertained much and returned
to Rome where he was to be consecrated his glory with one of the most important works out of his hand.

[Image:
MUSEO DEL PRADO

FELIPE IV

FRAME. M. Moreno]

Occupied the papal throne Juan Bautista Panfili, which years ago was nuncio in Madrid apostolic
and that being elected pope, taking the name Innocent X. No volunteers have been with him historians,
but without much attention to the scathing Abbe Gualdi, or Don Juan
Antonio Llorente, one may believe that by cruel and greedy, before
it was worthy of reproach that deserves of praise.

Acusósele have promoted insurrection to boot the city Naples the
domain of Spain looking for increased papal territory, and to talk
about him no yours shuts intimacy with his sister Maldachini Olimpia,
which hides behind a curtain, embassies and attending hearings, and
sold the dignities and ecclesiastical benefices.

Both allowed to dominate it, which ran in Rome satirical medals were
on the front Olympia with tight tiara and hands the keys of St. Peter,
and Pope back feminine styling and holding a spinning wheel.

Innocent X was very ugly and that was persuaded of it, thus presenting
a relative of his Olympia to bad catadura said: "Quitadmelo front,
and not brought back on me, because it's ugly and ordinary I do.

"

He wanted, however, portrayed him Velázquez and this by way of a first painted study head of
his slave Juan de Pareja, who was of mixed race and color generation strange made the - says Palomino
- "so similar and so vividly who, having sent to the same couple censorship of some friends, they
watched the original portrait and in awe and wonder, not knowing with whom they speak or who
had to respond. This portrait - add - that body was half natural, Flemish painter had Andrés Esmit
in this court, which time was in Rome that style being the day of St. Joseph, the cloister
is decorated of the Rotunda, where he is buried Raphael of Urbino, with distinguished ancient
and modern paintings, This portrait was made with such universal applause at the site, who to
vote for all artists of different nations, everything else seemed to paint, but this one truth:
in whose care Velázquez was greeted by Roman Academic year 1650. "

The couple in this picture painted half-length figure something cracked
and facing: the hair is long, very black and curly, his face, coppery
tone, highlights in gray verdastro and bears an olive jacket, white
scalloped flange, and cape, gathered on the shoulder left, subject
to the right hand than to the lower chest is drawn in a curve.

 He took a
large bite of tobacco and chewed steadily, while his keen black eyes watched every move of
the knife.

"Hurry up and get the cursed thing off," he snarled.

The Halfbreed nicked the flesh down to the bone, then with the ragged jack-knife he began to
saw. I could not bear to look. It made me deathly sick. I heard the grit, grit of the jagged
blade. I will remember the sound to my dying day. How long it seemed to take! No man could
stand such torture. A groan burst from Locasto's lips. He fell back on the bed. His jaws no
longer worked, and a thin stream of brown saliva trickled down his chin. He had fainted.

Quickly the Halfbreed finished his work. The hand dropped on the floor. He pulled down the
flaps of skin and sewed them together.

"How's that for home-made surgery?" he chuckled. He was vastly proud of his achievement. He
took the severed hand upon a shovel and, going to the door, he threw it far out into the darkness.

CHAPTER XIII

"WHY don't you go outside?" I asked of the Jam-wagon.

I had rescued him from one of his periodical plunges into the cesspool of debauch, and he was
peaked, pallid, penitent. Listlessly he stared at me a long moment, the dull, hollow-eyed stare
of the recently regenerate.

"Well," he said at last, "I think I stay for the same reason many another man stays--pride.
I feel that the Yukon owes me one of two things, a stake or a grave--and she's going to pay."

"Seems to me, the way you're shaping you're more liable to get the latter."

"Yes--well, that'll be all right." Marti birth his father held the position Police
Celador, or whatever it is, had title to kill or imprison those who believe not faithful to
the motherland. But Don Mariano was an honest man but low intelligence and rude and overbearing
ways. When Marti was a year old, what taken to Spain where his parents were visiting relatives.
About ten months were Valencia, after which they returned to Havana, continuing performance Mariano
its former destination. Parents, therefore, Martí, Spanish, he was educated in the love of Spain and
absolute submission to his government. And the most ardent desire was to see them one day to
his "Pepe" - so called - the same task used in the old police. But while the man is not the world
made, but mold is made and the heat of events, Marti, a rebel from the child to stop and detention,
it was like those vigorous oaks raising his glass robust despite the vines that wrap and worms
chew on. Marti was a true genius, and geniuses like volcanoes bring her womb made: weave themselves
love and purifies the building. King was born as born a slave, but who was born not realize
it until it commands and is obeyed, or until no send him and obey. Martí, said she brought the birth
of the infinite understanding of the future. It performed a miracle: a pigeon's egg was born
an eagle rose garden in the rough lily perfume ....

In a neighborhood school, which he had forgotten he could not because his teacher owed more than
their ears were separated from the side that usually, he learned
early letters.

This came out at age nine for college "San Anacleto ', which was then addressed in this capital
the cult educator Rafael Sixto Casado. It was in this school where began to stand, the first in class
and winning all the awards, which began to show that air was not what he had in his head but
thought and action. That his children, studious, Fermín Valdés Domínguez had and still has
Dr. Eduardo F. Plá, his fellow students in the classroom happy happy, amazing features and intelligence
character. And it was from that school where his father, believing it took quite some illustrated
to employ a clerk in the guardhouse. And perhaps if it had been buried there and spoiled the
great man, if Arazoza Francisco, a good friend of Don Mariano, behind of this, would not have
given money to enroll in the Secondary School, and they have been encouraged to continue their
studies. They took them to leave, however, months later harassed by the author of his days not consider
it necessary to perform employment, or to bid for Celador, know more of what he already knew.
However, the longing for enlightenment led him later, when he was only fourteen summers, the
campus education, "St. Paul", grammar school he founded and managed at that time worship and courageous
poet Rafael María de Mendive. It won the affection and esteem Director and shook his friendship
with Fermín Valdés Domínguez, who opened his house off, lent him books and loaded him with
sincere affection. Of the sweetest times of her life were these, and the comfort of them,
the joy of them, came to take him out, shook the deepest fibers of the heart, the cry for independence
launched in Yara, in the heroic dawn October 10, 1868, by the illustrious man, by the warlord
distinguished by Carlos Manuel de Lawns. Days later reduced to imprisonment in the Castle of the Prince,
Rafael Maria Mendive, later deported to Santander, and they say Martí, eager to see their beloved
teacher, went to the Government, and without further recommendation that the person, got a pass
so that it can visit, and there it was daily, the Cuban dungeon prisoner, to bring comfort
its gratitude and tenderness. The clarion call of Yara, first, shaking his young soul of a
patriot, the prison of his old friend, the events of Villanueva, and other outrages and abuses
committed by the Government of Spain in Cuba, which were probably set in his mind the divine idea
of ​​freedom and the need to conquer. It was then as his awakening glorious. It was then perhaps
he vowed secretly to her and held her wedding with the nation: Then I received the consecration
of the pain that enhances the soul and points unknown peaks thought ....

When Mendive went to Spain to serve his sentence, Martí, who was there was for that reason and
in darkness and without guide and under, empleose, in order to help his father always grumpy and dissatisfied
with him on the desk of Don Cristobal Madan, an old friend Bard exile. In turn, Marti continued
his studies at the Institute of Secondary Education. They say that in the middle of class hours to school,
met a group of students to talk politics, and was always Martí, the
most talked about and with more enthusiasm, the problems of the country,
and was glad to hear from their children's lips, judgments and beautiful
phrases, such as adult already manage the times and to create them:
like a man made to cry, to unleash and deploy winning battles ....
At the same time as Sunday Sweet, Captain General of the Island, decreed
the freedom of the press, began to publish Martí Domínguez Valdés
in the company of a newspaper called The Devil cripple, while directed
La Patria Libre, the latter being the newspaper that first published
his poem "Abdala," a spirited and brilliant singing of patriotic spirit
lifted.

For him it was a day of almost heavenly joy, one of those days when the sun looks like he frolics
in the souls, that he saw his poems published. But this contentment lasted little, because when
he arrived showing its production home, parents who disagreed with these games fantasy and
manly outbursts of Cubans, he was punished severely. Others have had the kisses from parents as
the first applause for their demonstration of manliness, of knowledge and Talent: Martí, Martí
did not take home more than rough voice, dry brawl cruel threat unjust rebuke of the hand
as the only reward for their early hopes of glory and honor ....

Then came the fateful moment that had to suffer the first punishment, which was to begin to lower
the cost of living, for loving his country, being a man, and refuse the seraglio. The year was
1869. It was on 4 October. Accused by some volunteers, Eusebio Domínguez Valdés, Fermin's brother,
Manuel Atanasio Sellén and Fortier, the enormous crime of having mocked passing them back from
a great stop by the house of the family of Valdés Domínguez, came, late at night, to arrest
them. On that occasion made a record at home already mentioned, anxious, surely, those outlaws,
to find something that sanctioned the killing. In the raid conducted, they found, among other
things, a letter whose envelope was yet closed, and they had written and signed and Fermín Valdés
Domínguez Martí, to send a classmate of them who had committed the bad act of signing up as
an officer regiment, being native to go to fight their brothers who were scrambling at the
time and bled to win for them and for all, home free and fair. The note, written by Marti,
was couched in these terms: "Mr. Carlos de Castro and Castro (so
called a traitor) Companion: Have you ever dreamed you with the glory
of apostates?

You know how you were punished in ancient apostasy? We hope that a disciple of Rafael Maria
Mendive, will not leave this letter unanswered. " It was determined Martí prison and Fermín
Valdés Domínguez, both courts-martial. Before the Court were called the two. Valdés Domínguez, first
stated that he was the author of the letter and the two firms. But when Marti was asked, panting
as if he carried in chest a mountain, went to the judges, and said "strong and vibrant voice
to him if was the one true author of the letter cited. And to corroborate his eloquently assertion,
made scathing attacks against Spanish rule, its politics and its tyrannical men null and infamous.
This was the first speech of Martí and the first public demonstration of his talent and uncompromising
character. There are men who come into the world such as hurricanes and avalanches, purifying and rumbling
from birth. So Marti. Sixteen years had then, "the bozo in bloom and the bird in the soul" and
Spain wanted to kill him. The prosecutor asked for him the last sentence and Fermín Valdés
Domínguez ten years in prison. But the failure was: six years in prison for Marti and one to his
comrade in misfortune and ideals. And Marti went to prison. There suffered what he said on
pages that are still dripping blood, in brochure "The political imprisonment in Cuba" and exclaiming:
"Dante was not in prison. If she felt her brain collapsed on the dark vaults of the torment of
life, had given up painting his hell. I had copied and I would have painted better. If there
is a providential God, and we have seen, one hand would have covered the face and the other
would have rolled into the abyss that denial of God. " It was then deported Isle of Pines and
later sent to Spain as a deportee. For her embarked January 15, 1871. Just before leaving he
wrote to his benefactor Mr. Mendive: "From in two hours embarkation exiled to Spain. I have
suffered much, but I have the conviction I learned that suffering. And if I had the strength
to both, and if I feel strong enough be truly a man alone I owe you and you and only you is how
much I have good and loving. Micaela tell you that if I had many foolish, kindness that the
apology makes me love her more. And Peter and Paul and Alfredo, and all my affection. Lots
of hugs to Mary and you all the soul of his son and disciple. " So he wrote to his old friend,
shortly before leaving for exile, shortly before leaving his homeland and your home and the
boy's great that books had to be later the liberator of his people and he ripped his latest
prey to the hungry American Spanish monarchy.

Marti came to Spain, sorry, poor, despite eaten the heart. Because the shackle it had been formed
a tumor from which it will operate twice and both without success. First lived in Madrid from
poor product classes that gave children of Don Leandro Alvarez Torrijo and the widow of General
Ravenet. Lived, as is expected, miserably. Living and met him when he was deported to Spain events
27 November 1871, Fermín Valdés Domínguez, friend, or rather, his brother. And Domínguez Valdés
had in the bag, enough gold, settled together in large rooms well placed. And Marti began
a new life. Improved health, he encouraged the eyes sad, and again undertook their studies.
At that time studying and yet relentlessly he lacked time to write brochures, to make speeches
from the podium the lodge "Harmony" to make verses, and talk to their countrymen of disease
of the homeland and its necessary and possible cures. A night to discuss the assassination
Student of Medicine, met the Cuban residents there, Martí spoke and recalled one who was at
that memorable meeting, which was flashing his speech, on, sweeping, and also recalls what happened
that night something supernatural. Hanging from the wall above the podium, there was a map
of Cuba, and when Marti, full of the most tender lyricism made a tearful call to her home,
surrounded by chains, when the audience, suspended of his word, trembling with emotion, the map fell
like a crown on his head. It was like if your whole entire earth,
to respond to their calls lie!

And when the proclamation of the Republic in Spain - as fleeting as a breath swallow - Marti
put in the hands of Estanislao Figueras a long letter advocating for the independence of Cuba.
And when the feds in formal session held at the Academy of jurisprudence, declined to declare
the Cuban Madrid who were content with the Spanish Federal Republic, Martí, who was present,
objected to this, and a debate that kept him up seven hours, poured on the ground these purposes.
Marti also opposed the establishment in Madrid of a Cuban casino. That and other traits, went
to his young age and in full court of Spain, as the verb and the tormented soul of his people and
miserable ....

Because Fermín Valdés Domínguez ill and doctors advised him to change of air, and he went to
Zaragoza Martí where just arrived, won the affection and estimate of the sons of that noble
piece of Spain. The insurgents were called in Aragon but the so called, without anger and hatred.
Zaragoza Martí was everything, he in meetings, newspaper writer, poet ever. In an event organized
to collect funds to alleviate the misery of widows and orphans of those brave men who succumbed
defend the honor of a king wanted to kill them criminal, Martí gave a beautiful prayer, and
Mr. Leopoldo Burón recited a few verses, also own, alluding to the act. In Zaragoza Marti received
the degree of Doctor of Laws to certificate of proficiency, and Doctor of Philosophy and Letters,
despite the strong opposition of the faculty of that University Carlist. Thus, to sheer effort,
including weakness and impulses, between bites and smiles, without biting the merit outside, walking
always on the side of the poor, and no beggar walk in between racks and stairs, became man,
big man!, the kind of home child unhappy, the suffering inmate from the quarries of Medina, the
young sickly and banished from the Iberian peninsula, our José Martí ....

And with his law degree and doctorate in philosophy and literature, left the Spanish nation
in 1873 and went to visit Paris, London and other major cities in Europe, following after trip
to Mexico, where he waited, eager to embrace his parents and sisters. In Mexico, wide and generous
land that Cubans have always found joy and warmth of their own home,
was received with marked demonstrations of appreciation.

A little of being Martí between Mexicans, was highly known and admired as a journalist, teacher, playwright,
speaker and poet. During the four years he remained in that Republic, was Director of The Journal
Universal, which is sometimes written from the bottom to the newsletters, a lecturer in Liceo Hidalgo
and other companies; playwright in major theaters. Workers Chihuahua was named Member of Congress
of Workers and the government will care lavished at every moment. Martí, without great love for his
country, had been in Mexico, as in any another country, host of conscience. But the heraldic
star that led to death between smoke and heat of shrapnel, he was like a lament as the cry of a
mother hence the mountain man who could be crowned with flowers, live long, wandering and
a vagabond, without his tent, staring at the beautiful island, where there was no justice no bribery,
no honor without punishment, no bread without blemish.

In Mexico, women's trembling with passion and soul and always full of yearning dying horse fighting
for his country, he wrote, that his own composition, entitled "Patria and female"; composition
While expressing the greatness of his soul, lulled by sighs of love and agitated by cries desperate
duty.

Heart full of tenderness and populated the mind of tragic visions, undoubtedly the brave wrote
poetry that I remember these lines:

sigh of love, as if it would fit, sad country, any thoughts that native land was not in tears.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

"And with what heart, simple woman my pain you expect you want? You can turn your kiss my cheek
but far from here, my soul waits for me. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . .

"Lying on my lip if yours, lie love my eyes if you look; of womanly love my strength I run: in disembodied
inspired agitation.

"I love the tree that shades most uncertain of the warrior's tomb brother that that nest of pearls
that beautifies blonde weaker than your love light. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .

"Its a robust string lyre heart and lost his atoms: one love to my heart aspires, save for a single
heartbeat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

"This gentle body full of life, and each houses a dead tree over there:
to this woman invites all to enjoy, all alone in this desert. . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     
     
     "Do not talk about love my beating heart:
when my heart is a beat that I announced that in a battle a hero
of the homeland has perished.

        " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     
     From the land of Father Hidalgo, the priest
hero, passed in early 1877, to Guatemala, stopping earlier in Havana,
to get some letters of introduction to different personalities Government
of that republic.

     There, just shaken off the dust of the
     road, he was appointed Professor Political
     Law and Director of the Guatemalan
     magazine.

        He wrote, at the request of the
     Government, a historical drama in four
     acts and in verse, and there, an angelic
     soul girl he felt the most pure of passion.
He was a distinguished lady, the daughter of a General distinguished
from that country, who loved him madly.

        And they say that Marti was suffering
     as a crime, have to be indifferent
     to the love spring. But when he went
     to Guatemala, Mexico was already
committed to Carmen Zayas Bazán, who was then his wife and respected
widow today: why did not love so tender creature Martí and talented.

        Marti again went to Mexico to marry,
     and married again to Guatemala. And
     they say the poor love then died
     of grief, the sweet feel too bad
about ingratitude of life.

        Marti, years later, thinking no doubt
     of the love story that shook its existence,
     wrote these divine verses of tenderness
     and melancholy:

"I love the shade of a wing tell this story in bloom the girl from Guatemala, which died of love.

"They were of lily bouquets, and the train of reseda and jasmine: the buried in a box of silk ...

"She gave the forgetful scent pad; he returned, married again: she died of love.

"Were loaded on a stretcher Bishops and Ambassadors was behind the people in batches all loaded
with flowers

"... She, seeing him again, went to see the viewpoint: he returned with his wife; she died of
love.

"As hot bronze to kiss goodbye was his brow, forehead I've loved in my life!

             "... It came in the afternoon on
          the river The doctor took her
          dead; say he died of
          cold: I know I died of love.

             
          
          "There in the icy vault, put
          it in two banks: I kissed his hand sharp I kissed her white shoes.

             
          
          "Quiet, the dark, I called
          the undertaker: I've never seen him at death of love!

             ".
          
          Martí inspired other passions, other
          women, but perhaps none so pure and beautiful as that inspired the
girl of Guatemala, the lily hand and forehead pure, light and music
made flesh .... And when the order of the Minister of War he took
the leadership Normal School of that country, his friend and countryman
Jose Maria Izaguirre, quit jobs and honors and came to Cuba, and signed
peace Zanjón in 1878.

             Havana welcomed him warmly. First
          went to work as a lawyer,
          but not swear his title
          at law gift Nicolas and Miguel Azcarate Viondi, turning then to know
of his countrymen as a speaker, in remarkable speeches and lectures
at the Lyceum of Guanabacoa, and a toast made in a banquet in honor
of the great journalist Adolfo Marquez Sterling.

             Four were Marti spoke many
          times at the Lyceum
          of Guanabacoa. The first
          of realism in art; the second on his friend, the poet Alfred Torroella,
which drew tears, the third on the dramas of José Echegaray, and the
fourth, on the renowned violinist Diaz Albertini.

             The latter was attended by General
          Blanco, Captain General of
          the island then, and notable
          personalities Cubans and Spaniards.

             And he says Miguel Martí spoke
          Viondi so, homeland and freedom
          that General White left
          the party Mr. Azcarate said: "I do not remember what I've heard and
never conceived not said before me, representing the Government Spanish:
I think that is crazy ...».

             Martí He added, "but a
          dangerous madman." Despite
          excessive work and his dedication
          to literature, Martí did not leave a conspiring day since arriving
in Havana.

His home was a center of conspiracy and a temple of art there met so soon, men at arms and action,
to talk of war, as men gathered of knowing and thinking to speak of "sighs and laughter, colors
and notes." Later, the same White general, believing - as was true - complicated in that outbreak of
revolution 1879, asked him to join the public protest the Government of Spain, to which he indignantly
replied: "Martí is not the race of salable." And he was again deported Spain, where he fled soon after,
going to Paris and thence to New York, where they continued conspiring, conspiracy which culminated
in him landing in Cuba of Calixto Garcia General glorious pierced the forehead. And when he saw the
failure of that attempt and felt the painful reality, he went to Caracas, the city of Bolivar,
where he brought together around his many admirers and friends. In Caracas, he taught public
speaking to a youth valuable. Several times a week for two hours, his eloquent voice rang in
the middle of students listened in awe. And one of those recorded that "in a session oratory,
served as his subject the people of Israel, and expressive language and sublime Enarr the wonders
of the exceptional people 'that was not possible to say beautiful things poetry, but "when he was considered
at the summit of Mount Nebo and introduced Israelites and Moses viewed the promised land, his eloquence
was new, surprising, and shortly before this sublime spirit seemed transformed by the modesty
of the quasi-divine ideas. "
 As we climbed we plunged our hands deep into the cool cushion of the moss,
and half dragged ourselves upward. It was like an Oriental rug covering the stony ribs of the
hill, a rug of bizarre colouring, strangely patterned in crimson and amber, in emerald and
ivory. Birch-trees of slim, silvery beauty arose in it, and aided us as we climbed.

So we came at last, after a weary journey, to a bleak, boulder-studded plateau. It was above
timber-line, and carpeted with moss of great depth and gaudy hue. Suddenly we saw two vast
pillars of stone upstanding on the aching barren. I think they must have been two hundred feet
high, and, like monstrous sentinels in their lonely isolation, they overlooked that vast tundra.
They startled us. We wondered by what strange freak of nature they were stationed there.

Then we dropped down into a vast, hush-filled valley, a valley that looked as if it had been
undisturbed since the beginning of time. Like a spirit-haunted place it was, so strange and
still. It was loneliness made visible. It was stillness written in wood and stone. I would
have been afraid to enter it alone, and even as we sank in its death-haunted dusk I shuddered
with a horror of the place.

The Indians feared and shunned this valley. They said, of old, strange things had happened
there; it had been full of noise and fire and steam; the earth had opened up, belching forth
great dragons that destroyed the people. And indeed it was all like the vast crater of an extinct
volcano, for hot springs bubbled forth and a grey ash cropped up through the shallow soil.

There was no game in the valley. In its centre was a solitary lake, black and bottomless, and
haunted by a giant white water-snake, sluggish, blind and very old. Stray prospectors swore
they had seen it, just at dusk, and its sightless, staring eyes were too terrible ever to forget.

And into this still, cobweb-hued hollow we dropped--dropped almost straight down over the flanks
of those lean, lank mountains that fringed it so forlornly. Screams of women, children Yoros, men na desi, but paresis Jech's will. And I
told passengers: "With you is not your na. Calm down, ladies Sallu cabayeros, and bon voyage ... To
see, to take that fat foot down. "And our man, who shrugged as if it were to hide under the skirts
of women, had come down, too white if would have been blood, eses hasiendo the same as if he
were drunk. It was the car, and we were alone in der way. "Hey, I'm the Plumitas, and I'll give
you somethin to you remember. "I gave him. But it was killed on. I gave in desert place I know
I, PA lived twenty-four hours even when being picked up by civil guards who was able desir Plumitas
who had killed him. So there was no other and could not be equivocasión importansia.

Doña Sol listened intensely pale, her lips tightened with fear and eyes the strange glow that
accompanied his mysterious thoughts.

Gallardo contorted face, bothered by this story fierce.

- Every one knows his Ofisi, Sr. Juan - Plumitas said, as if guessing what I thought -. The both
live in matá: Nah, you and I bulls kill people. There is only Nah, you is rich and the yeva
jembras parma and good, and I raged Many times of hunger, and I'll finish, if I neglected,
fact der a screen in the middle field, pa that I eat crows. But I do not know Ofisi wins, Sr. Juan!
Nah, you know where to give the bull pa come to the ground continued. I know where to give
a Christian who falls reondo pa, pa entoavía something lasting, and
pass raging pa remembering a few weeks der Plumitas, Quie not mess
with anybody, but who knows shake to those who mess with him.

Doña Sol again became curious about the number of their crimes.

- And dead? ... How many people have you killed?

- Nah, you make me dislike you, my lady, but because it is committed! ... I Believe toos agreement,
even though I haser memory. Maybe go pa thirty or thirty and sync:
I do not know well.

With so dragged down this path, who think yevar accounts? ... But I am a wretch, my lady, a
desgrasiao. CURP was aqueyos hisieron I bad. This of deaths is like cherries. Pull on one and
the others come back to ocena. Pa must kill to live, and if you feel bad, eat it.

There was a long silence. The lady looked short and stubby hands of the bandit, with gnawed
fingernails. But Plumitas paid no attention to the "Marquise". All his attention was to the sword,
wanting to express appreciation for having received at his table and fade the bad effect that
seemed to cause his words.

- I respect Nah, you, Senor Juan - added
-.

Denque bullfight I saw for the first time, I said "That's a brave
lad."

Afisionaos Nah, you have many who love him, but like me ...! Imagine I see that pa disfrasao
Many times and I've come in siudades exposed to throw me the glove. Is that afisión?

Gallardo smiling, nod, now flattered his pride as an artist.

- Aemás - continued the bandit - no one will say that I have come
to La Rinconada at pedaso asked nor of bread. Many times I was hungry
and I have made walking hard Farta serca Sinco of here, and today
entoavía occurred to me to spend the alambrao der farm. "The Senor
Juan is sagrao pa me (I said always). Earn money as I do: Exposing
the road. There dyeing fellowship ... " Because you fail to deny,
Senor Juan, that although you and I is a one desgrasiao presonages
of peorsito, the two are equal, the two played live with death. Had we not reached him, he would have starved. He came like a child, but seemed a
prey to acute melancholy.

It was indeed a sad party that trailed down that sad, dead valley. The trees were hung with
a dreary drapery of grey, and the ashen moss muffled our footfalls. I think it was the deadest
place I ever saw. Seemed hampered by his hidden iron legs
and the pain of several bump. We had a hand in the back to scratch with painful stretches,
but he smiled, showing his yellow teeth of a horse.

- Have you seen ustés that has estao Juan Bueno? - Told everyone around
him -.

Today is Bueno really.

When repairing the only woman in the courtyard and recognize, showed no surprise.

- Nah, you here, Sena Carmen! Both Bueno! ...

And he spoke quietly, as if he, in the drowsy you ever had wine and bestiality itself, could
not surprise you anything.

- Nah, you've seen Juan ?...-- continued -.

It has been lie down on the floor, Elante the bull, in hosicos themselves. What hase hase that bowed
not anyone ... Peek a veil, which is now mu Guen.

They called from a door, which was nursing.

His partner wanted the chopper speak before he moved to the hospital.

- Adio, Sena Carmen. I'll see what that probesito Quie. One fell to
fratura, according to design.

This toa non-biting in the season.

Carmen took shelter under the arcades, trying to close their eyes
to the disgusting spectacle the yard, but at the same time he felt
drawn to the dizzying red blood.

The "wise monkeys' led by the bridle the horses injured, who dragged their guts on the ground,
while dropping below the tail with diarrhea of ​​fright.

Seeing them, a manager of the blocks began to move his hands and feet, agitated by a fever activity.

-
Force !...-- brave young men shouted, addressing the stables -. Hard! Drive there!

A stable boy, moving cautiously along the horse, coceante of pain, deprived him the chair, throwing
her legs after the bonds of the stiff straps, joining the four limbs and bringing down the
animal to the ground.

- There, brave! ... Hard!

Hard on him! - Still screaming in charge of the stables, while moving the hands and feet.

And the young men, rolled up, inclinábanse on the open belly of the beast, that scattered around
pools of blood and urine, struggling to introduce a handful in the tragic rift heavy guts hanging
out of it.

Another held the reins of the animal and pressed down on the floor putting the sad head one foot
on it. Twitched his nose in a gesture of pain clashed long and yellow teeth with a shiver of martyrdom,
lost in the dust the neighing, suffocated by pressure foot. Fought the bloody hands of the healers
to return to the open cavity the flabby belly, but the heavy breathing
of the victim's swell, making them out of their confinement and scattering
again as packed scraps.

A huge bladder inflated in the wreckage, hindering the settlement.

- The comic, courageous !...-- shouted the director -. Hard on the comic!

And the bladder, with all his heart attached, finally disappearing into the depths of the belly, while
two young men, with the agility of custom, sewing the skin.

When the horse was "fixed" with barbaric quickly, he threw a bucket of water head, freedom legs
of interlocking straps and gave him a caning to be put in place. Some, barely walked two steps,
hung round, spilling gush of blood from the wound sewn with twine. It was instant death to recover the
belly position. Discover the secrets manteníanse strong force animal resources, and the servants,
after the "settlement", they carried the "barnizaje" flooding their legs and bellies violent ablutions
with water buckets.

The white or brown color of the animals was bright, his hair dripping with pink liquid mixture
of water and blood.

Mending the horses as if they were old shoes, exploiting his weakness to the last time, prolonging
their agony and death. Were on the floor pieces of intestines, cut to facilitate the operation
of the "settlement." Other pieces of his heart were in the ring covered with sand, until the bull
died and the boys could collect these scraps in their baskets. Many times, the tragic emptiness
of lost organs remediábanlo barbarians healers with handfuls of rags
placed on the belly.

The important thing was to keep these animals stand a few minutes more, until picks get back
out on the square: the bull is in charge of finishing his work ...
And jacos dying suffered without protest the grim transfiguration.

Those who were resuscitated limping with loud strokes of the cane, they trembled from the legs to
the ears. A horse meek, in despair of his misfortune, tried to bite the "wise monkeys' approaching.
Still kept his teeth and hair flaps of skin cells.

To feel the tear of horns on its belly, the wretched animal had bitten the bull's neck of lamb with
a fury rabid.

Sadly injured horses neighing, lifting the tail with noisy exhaust gases; stench of blood and
feces scattered around the patio plant, the blood was between stones, blackening on drying.

Until there came the sound of the invisible crowd. There were exclamations of concern; a "ay!
Ay! "Launched by thousands of mouths, I did guess the leak harassed banderillero closely by the bull.
Then silence. The man turned to the beast, and burst the thunderous applause greeted a couple
of flags in place.

Then the trumpets sounded announcing the kill, and repeated applause.

Carmen wanted to leave. Virgen de la Esperanza! What was he doing there? ... Ignored the order
would to continue the slaughter in their work.

Perhaps that touch marked the moment when her husband would stand in front of the beast. And she
there, a few steps away, and without him!

... I wanted to escape to escape this torment.

Moreover, the anguished blood that ran through the courtyard, the torment of these poor beasts.
Sublevábase female delicacy against this torture, at the same time
it carried the handkerchief to repel odors smell of carnage.

Had never been to the bulls.

Much of its existence had been hearing about bullfights; but in the stories of these parties
only saw the outside, what you see around the world: the sets the arena, in light of the sun,
shiny silk and embroidery, the lavish representation, without knowing the heinous preparations
were verified in the mystery of the racks. Y they lived in this party, with their hideous sufferings
of weak animals! And his fortune had been made at the expense of those shows! ...

Loud applause broke out in the circus. In the court orders were issued in an imperious tone.
The first bull was dead. Were opened at the bottom of the passage of the door Stables fences that connected
with the ring, and came with more intensity noise of crowd and the echoes of the music.

The mules were in the square: a lashing to pick up dead horses, another to take dragged the corpse
of the bull.

Carmen was coming under the arches to his brother. He was still shaking with excitement I had
seen.

- John ... Colossal Is this late as ever. Do not be mieo. If this guy eats bulls Live!

Then looked at her with concern, fearing ever made him lose an afternoon
so interesting ... What is decided?

Do you consider the courage to peek at the plaza?

- Yévame! - She said with accent distressing -. Get me out of here soon! I feel sick ... Let
the first church we find.

The leather grimaced. By the life of Roger! Leave a run so great! ... Y as they walked towards
the door where he could leave calculated Carmen to return as before
the square.

And after the second bull, Gallardo still leaning on the fence, received congratulations of
his admirers. What the courage of that boy ... 'When he wanted »!... The whole square will
had welcomed the first bull, forgetting his anger in the previous runs. Falling a picador being
spiritless by the terrible shock, Gallardo had come with his cape, taking the beast in the center
of the ring. Were some arrogant veronicas eventually leave the beast still and tired after stirred
after the deception of red cloth. The bullfighter taking advantage of the stupefaction of the animal,
was erected a few steps from his nose, pulling belly as if he defied.

Felt "a feeling" happy harbinger of great daring.

Had to conquer the audience with a touch of audacity, and knelt before the horns some caution,
ready to rise to the slightest attempt to rush.

The bull stood still. He moved a hand to touch your mouth drooling, and the animal did movement.
Then the audacity to something that engulfed the audience in a throbbing silence. Slowly lay
down on the sand with the binder in the arms serving as a pillow, and so was a few seconds he
lay under the nose of the beast, sniffing it with some fear, as if
he fears a danger in this body who boldly stood with their horns.

When the bull, recovering his fiercely aggressive, down the shafts,
the bullfighter rolled to the feet thus putting out of reach, and
the animal passed over him, looking vainly blindness in the package
the fierce rushing.

Gallardo got up, wiping the dust, and the public, the frightened lover,
applauded with the enthusiasm of the past.

Not only celebrated his audacity. Himself was applauded, admired its own majesty, guessing that
the boldness of the bullfighter was to reconcile with him, to win back his affection. Gallardo came
to the race prepared to the highest daring to win applause.

- It ignores - said in the stands -; often is weak, but is ashamed bullfighter and again by name.

The
enthusiasm of the public, his lively agitation to remember the feat of Gallardo and accurate lunge
with the other teacher had killed the first bull in a bad mood trocáronse and protests to see
the second in the ring. It was huge and beautiful picture, but running through the center of
the square, looking in amazement at the noisy crowd in the stands, afraid of the voices and whistles
that excite you and wanted to escape his own shadow as if he guessed
all sorts of pitfalls.

The pawns were in holding out the coat.

Rushing the red flag, following it for some moments, but suddenly gave a snort of surprise
and turned his back room, running in different directions with violent jumps. His agile mobility
for the leak angered the public.

- That's no bull ... Is a monkey!

The coats of the teachers finally got pulled into the barrier, where they hoped the choppers, motionless
on their horses, with the pole under his arm.

He approached a rider with his head down and fierce snorts as if to attack. But before that
iron sank into his neck, jumped up and fled, passing between the layers that tended the pawns.
In his escape he found another chopper and repeat the jump, the snort
and flight.

Then met with the third rider, which, moving the pole, was bitten on the neck, increasing with
the punishment his fear and speed.

The mass audience had been standing, BRAC and screaming. A gentle bull! What an abomination!
... Volvíanse all to the presidency bellowing his protest: "Mr. President! This could not spoiled.
"

In some lines began dating a chorus of voices repeating the same words
with monotonous intonation:

- Fire!

... Fueeego!

The president looked doubtful.

The bull ran, chased by the fighters, who were after him layer with the arm. When one of them
managed to put forward to stop him, sniffing Fabric with snort and always in a different direction
away leaping and kicking.

Increased the noisy protest to these leaks. "Mr. President! Was he was blind its ?...» lordship
began to fall in the ring bottles, oranges and seat cushions around
the runaway beast.

The public hated a coward. A bottle gave one of his horns and the crowd applauded the accurate shooter,
not knowing who he was. Tended the public body forward as if to jump
into the ring, wanting to smash with their hands to evil beast. What
a scandal! View on the Plaza de Madrid oxen that only served to give
flesh! "Fire! ... Fueeego! "

The president waved a red handkerchief
to the end and a round of applause greeted this gesture.

The flags
of fire was an extraordinary spectacle, something unexpected that
increased the interest of the race. Many protesters until they were
satisfied with their hoarse Inside this incident. Iban to see the
bull roast in life, running wild with terror rays that hang from the
neck.

National outstanding increased by bringing their hands, pointing
down, two thick flags that appeared clad in black paper. He went toward
the bull without great care, as if his art deserved any cowardice,
and thrust his infernal sticks to cheers revenge of the crowd.

There
was a click as if something breaks, and two jets of white smoke began
to emerge on the neck. With sunlight could not see the fire, but the
hairs disappear charred and black spot spread on the neck.

He ran
the bull surprised the attack, accelerating his escape, as if it could
escape torment, until he suddenly began to pop into your neck like
blasting dry rifle shot, flying around his eyes the burning ashes
of paper. Jumped the beast with the agility of terror, the four legs
in the air while twisting in horned head vain to tear his mouth those
demons clinging to his neck. People laughed and applauded, finding
funny these leaps and contortions. It seemed that ran animal performing
a dance of the awkward heaviness of its volume.

- How to itch! -
Exclaimed the audience with laughter fierce.

Ceased to roar and popping
the flags. Char boiled the neck with bubbles fat. The bull, not feel
the burning fire, stood motionless, breathless, his head humiliated,
producing a dry tongue, dark red.

Another banderillero approached
him, driving a second pair. Resurfaced jets Smoke on the charred flesh,
they heard the shots, and the bull ran again, struggling bring your
mouth to neck twisting its massive body, but now the movements were
less violence, as if his vigorous animal will begin to get used to
martyrdom.

Even drove in a third pair, and his neck was charred,
spreading in a circle stench of melted fat, skin and hair burned consumed
by fire.

The audience continued applauding vengeful frenzy, as if
the opponent was a gentle animal their beliefs and do holy work with
this burning. O God, help us!

Suddenly they caught sight of that crazy boat of ours made of canvas and willows. They poled
the raft in close, then one of them saw those three strange things writhing impotently on the
sand. They were skeletons, they were in rags, they were covered with vermin.--  * * *

We were saved; thank God, we were saved!

CHAPTER XVII

"Berna, we must get married."

"Yes, dearest, whenever you wish."

"Well, to-morrow."

She smiled radiantly; then her face grew very serious.

"What will I wear?" she asked plaintively.

"Wear? Oh, anything. That white dress you've got on--I never saw you looking so sweet. You
mind me of a picture I know of Saint Cecilia, the same delicacy of feature, the same pure colouring,
the same grace of expression."

"Foolish one!" she chided; but her voice was deliciously tender, and her eyes were love-lit.
And indeed, as she stood by the window holding her embroidery to the failing light, you scarce
could have imagined a girl more gracefully sweet. In a fine mood of idealising, my eyes rested
on her.

"Yes, fairy girl, that briar rose you are doing in the centre of your little canvas hoop is
not more delicate in the tinting than are your cheeks; your hands that ply the needle so daintily
are whiter than the May blossoms on its border; those coils of shining hair that crown your
head would shame the silk you use for softness."

"Don't," she sighed; "you spoil me."

"Oh no, it's true, true. Sometimes I wish you were not so lovely. It makes me care so much
for you that--it hurts. Sometimes I wish you were plain, then I would feel more sure of you.
Sometimes I fear, fear some one will steal you away from me."

"No, no," she cried; "no one ever will. There will never be any one but you."

She came over to me, and knelt by my chair, putting her arms around me prettily. The pure,
sweet face looked up into mine.

"We have been happy here, haven't we, boy?" she asked. 

Velazquez made the box, dead Espinola, who became bitter ingratitude; And now I paint for pleasure
or inspiration of others, compensated for the injustice to the winner of flamingos. For your
noble countenance had to fend unknown portrait, perhaps of one would do him before the trip
they undertook together in spite of this, this head not only does not detract from which they
are undoubtedly made to the model, but a of those with more life.

In The Lances, the composition gives complete idea of ​​the matter: the diversity of types
depending on origin, the group, not only plausible but required by circumstances, as regards the
interpretation of the moment, may be cited as a model of what should be a box history. Stirling
said, however, in my opinion wrongly, that "Justin of Nassau without its own aspect of Genoese
gentleman, and that the artist seems to have been committed on to emphasize, with some evil,
the contrast between the two camps: on one side Castilian the best looks, the other Dutch uncouth
looking oversized pants with air stupid surprise. "

Instead, Lefort states that Velázquez wrote The Lances out of all convention, and is "one of
the most vivid pages of history that has produced the painting: none lets read and penetrate
better, none is more sincere and eloquent by the clear simplicity of execution. " And Justi
says that "few paintings are so evocative, and fewer still reveals a painter endowed with noble
sentiments. "

Nor is equality of opinion regarding how the box is illuminated. Lefort says: "All things in
that great canvas is modeled in broad daylight, openly and boldly, without devices. The air
circulates everywhere, spreading an atmosphere perceived by top that landscape that recedes
tremendous distances, bañándole of clearness, streams and freshness, involving forms, caressing
the contours, resting and bonding between other serious colorations, warm, opulent, that here and
there interspersed discreetly some clear notes to merge them into large and powerful harmony.
" Finally Beruete believes that "modern criticism can perhaps blame the oblique illumination
of the spears and support that is not yours sunlight, diffuse light
of the outdoors so much in vogue today.

"

Indeed, the groups are not bathed in vivid clarity that comes from penetrating high to low and in
the countryside surrounding it, fills and strokes it. To fail on if this is a flaw, would need
to show and no one has succeeded yet, if it is really possible to paint in an open space in
such proportions and a scene of that nature. The variability of light that occurs from moment to
moment changes the whole tone and each party is sufficient to indicate the purpose unachievable.
Hence, the imitation of natural in large outdoor compositions are not always obtained as closely
as in a compound but an approximate closed by equivalences on, and
in this case no one has come where Velazquez on spears.

Lefort and Justi deny that the gentle figure placed to the right part, between the horse of Espinola
and frame, is a portrait of Velázquez: Cross-Villamil and Beruete, with better agreement think
so.

To be persuaded of this, just compare that image with the other real known, taking into account of
course, the alteration of features that the printed time to the face.

As a sign of the carelessness of our ancestors and how incomplete
is the news regarding Velazquez collected by Palomino, suffice to
say that he quoted The Lances with only these words: "At this time
he also painted a large picture historians of taking a seat by the
Lord Ambrosio Espinola, for the living room of comedy in the Buen
Retiro, with singular eminence.

"

Relatively minor works produced at this same time, are the Hunt for pigs in the Hole, and Tabladillo
Hunt.

The first, which deteriorated much in the fire at the Alcazar,
was given by Ferdinand VII Lord Cowley in 1846 she sold it at 2,200
pounds to the National Gallery in London. Yet, alas! Go
only for buffs, if they are ill, men cured of fear, and those women not missing, tanned and in
every kind of mischief, or they are so innocent, that if any evil come to hear, not understand.
"

Moreover, I venture to assert that in the most shameless comic zarzuela there is no fifth of
the spring or green jokes in many comedies of Tirso, that many sketches of Don Ramón de la Cruz
and many other dramatic productions of our great classical theater.

The main reason for the censure of the buffs come from an interesting
hobby, from few years ago, has seized more judgmental minds. Oh, he was handsome, this brother of mine, and I was proud, proud of him!

"By all that's wonderful, what brought you here?"

His teeth flashed in that clever, confident smile. A simple gored, and disappeared. But at the same moment, a ferocious roar distracted
attention from some red bull and passed before his eyes like a flame of fire.

It was Gallardo, who had thrown down the horse, leaving the pole to
catch the coat bearing on the pommel of the saddle.

- Uh!

... Sign!

The bull came in, ran after the red lining of his jacket, attracted by this worthy opponent him, and turned
his back room to the figure of a black skirt and purple body, in
stupefaction the danger, the spear was still under his arm.

- Do
not be mieo, Dona Zol: it is already mine - said the bullfighter,
still pale with emotion, but smiling, sure of his skill.

With little defense other than the jacket, he fought the beast, away from the lady and getting
rid of their furious rush with graceful trills.

The crowd, forgetting the recent scare began to applaud enthusiastically.

What happiness! Attending a simple harassment and find a run almost formal, seeing bullfight
Gallardo free.

The bullfighter, emboldened by the momentum with which he attacked
the beast, forgot to Dona Sol and all, attentive only to dodge their
attacks.

Stirred angry bull, seeing the invulnerable man slipped between his horns, and come down on him,
being always display red jacket.

Finally ended up getting tired, being motionless, his mouth drooling
and head down, trembling on his legs, and then Gallardo abused the
astonishment of the beast, taking off calanes and playing with him
his neck.

A huge howl rose behind the fence waving this feat.

Shouts and bells rang at the back of Gallardo, and appeared around the beast Cowboys and halters,
wrap that eventually, slowly into the thick of cattle.

Gallardo went in search of his horse, which had not moved, accustomed to contact with the bulls.
He picked up the pole, mounted, and with gentle gallop went to the
fence, extending this slow the loud applause of the crowd.

Riders who had gathered to Dona Sol greeted with great enthusiasm samples sword. The manager
winked, speaking mysteriously
- Gacha, tin has no weight. Okay, really well! Now I tell you to
take her.

Outside the fence, in a landau of the daughters of the
marquis, was Dona Sol its cousins around distressed, hands, we want
to find something broken in your body by the fall. The rods gave chamomile
to pass you the scare, and she smiled with air superiority, accepting
these extreme feminine compassion. I don't like the way you're looking. You're working too
hard. Perhaps I can help you."

"All right; I'm afraid you'll find it rather awful, though. No one lives up here in winter
if they possibly can avoid it. But for a time it will interest you."

"I think it will." And again his eyes stared fixedly at that piece of embroidery on its little
hoop. 

[47] Volume IV. Madrid, 1770.

[48] ​​can be reproduced at the head of the English translation of
the Life of the great cheapskate with drawings of Vierge, entitled
Pablo de Segovia, the Spanish Sharper.

A folio volume. T. Fisher Auwin. London, 1892.

[49] The Court and the Monarchy of Spain in the years of 1636 and 37, by Antonio Rodriguez Villa.
Madrid, 1886.

[50] In the extensive catalog of the Museum of Versailles.

Paris, 3 volumes, 1861, features a portrait Small (3386) Duchess of Chevreuse, by Mlle. Bresson,
with a note that says it taken from an original belonging to the ancient castle of Montpensier
library Eu. I do not know if the original has something to do with Velázquez.

[51] Madrazo notes that Mr. Gayangos, based on the relations of the
Chevreuse with leading English families and their frequent trips to
London, said that was between held by many English Spanish, and that
it might be that his death portrait Velazquez was found in his workshop
the room was inventoried the prince and head of an Englishwoman.

[52] Some critics, including Justi, put it in because of Velázquez.
At this time also reflects a table saw Palomino home of the Marquis
de Liche, where Prince Baltasar Carlos learned to ride taught by his
equerry, Count-Duke, while the king and queen looking on from a balcony
of the ring. Your spirit urged you to fields of conquest and romance,
yet by nature you were designed for the gentler life. 

The people, oppressed, exploited, oppressed, unable to believe or expect anyone to be debased
idleness soup favored by the foolish, asking after their outrage and skepticism in sayings
that said, in a long generation there is a priest and a thief, never less thing vide that good
priests and bishops, to the devout man's door do not put your grain to the sun denies sermon that
ends in horse trading, it seems silly and ask for the spirits, put
your trust in the Virgin and do not run.

The King, to hide their sins, was professed by many of his bastard children, and rich men were
ruined by comic graft in courtesans, such as Mary Beson, "that French
wine so full of coats and disease ", or Antonia Infante, who used
in bed sheets black silk.

And that nation, such a court. Madrid, poverty consumed by any pretext burned at parties. In
Hall, as soon as spent millions to host a foreign prince as a Jester had to pay two to buy
real candy to the queen, soldiers, without pay, was stabbed in the
streets, as they came the news that the French or Flemish we were
defeated in the English countryside and we had pirated the seas.

Philip IV had fun in the solemnities of the Church, the ceremonies of the palace, in the quarters
of the theater, in groves of Retiro, the vulgar commenting enjoyed
high and low adventures big and small, and the clergy to absolve them
all around as long as no prejudiced their income or attack their jurisdiction.

Among

this general debasement used only occasionally rise protest of a brave spirit, judge, preacher
or writer who condemned such shame: for example, bold and honest voice of the bishop of Granada,
Don Garcerán Albanel, who dared Felipe IV denounce the abuses of the Conde-Duque and the pen
of the great Quevedo .--«¿ Can one - says it - be king and have it all without taking from many?
Could it be superior and sovereign subordinated to advice? Could it be powerful and not to
avenge his anger, not to fill their greed and do not satisfy your lust? "

Much love wane due to the monarchy by then, it was discovered a few years and punished fearful
conspiracy engineered by powerful nobles. Don Carlos Padilla and the Marquis de la Vega de
la Sagra die on the gallows for trying to rebel against King, the Duke of Híjar, accused of
trying to rise with Aragon, suffers torment, the Grand Duke Osuna suspected dreamed of the throne
of Naples, giving the opportunity to tell Villamediana:

      
    Naples also tell that
    Osuna looted: I believe
    so if the Duke was a pasha;
    not because it is rich
    usurped property of others:
    before, Kind regards, was so
    humble, that the King, office
    of Viceroy gave and ran
    for two points less.

The Marquis of Ayamonte expired on the scaffold, shown their involvement
in this plot hatched Andalusia to independent republic, and which
said:

Just wanted to of Medina Sidonia raise some of this land, because
they have lost all.

      
    
    Finally, in Catalonia, the
    most illustrious families, siding with the people, become against
the Crown, and in Portugal, the Duke of Braganza, in obedience to
the promptings of woman who said, "I want to be king over an hour
Duchess life ', it is sovereign the name of John IV.

What mistakes would not be the monarch, when Canovas del Castillo, Stages in the reign of Philip
IV, said: "No point in the history of Spain appears as learned as only idleness, ignorance,
the desire for enjoyment of Philip IV, together with the incompetence and tyranny of Olivares,
the chief minister, were the causes the lifting of Portugal in 1640. "

Courts dead, suffocated municipal independence from Charles I, absorbed vitality of the towns
and cities by the centralizing spirit of the private, and despised the work for misleading abundance
of gold that came from America, our power crumbled to be turned into
rubble which was superb monument.

Of those three words that symbolized the old Spanish grandeur, God was not understood, the king
was deified and the country was dying.

But as a consolation to such shame, as in recovery from kingdom caught and humiliations, in our
intellectual history were two glorious demonstrations Spanish genius: the extraordinary richness
of literary production and flowering painting.

Lope and Cervantes, Velazquez and Murillo, recovered for Italy in domains of beauty and supremacy
estimate that we lost in the political and material by inadequacy and turpitude of the high branches
of government.

II

QUICK MEMORIAL TO OUR PAINTING late sixteenth century.


Then, after a little, he rose to go.

"I'll return to the hotel with you," I said.

Berna gave us a pathetically anxious little look. There was a red spot on each cheek and her
eyes were bright. I could see she wanted to cry.

"I'll be back in half an hour, dear," I said, while Garry gravely shook hands with her.

We did not speak on the way to his room. When we reached it he switched on the light and turned
to me.

"Brother, who's this girl?"

"She's--she's my housekeeper. I went to the corner because I sent him
my matador. "Nah, you know what a gang? Same thing that ejérsito: disiplina and servility. The matador
rules, and must obedeser. As the bulls this is the time of the Inquisition, and no more reasionario
Ofisi.

- Clown! - Called Mrs. Angus -. Bueno are you with these fables toas Inquisition and reasionable!
Among toos are killing this probesita, who spends his days dodging
tears as Dolorosa.

You you want to cover the terns of my son, because it gives you to eat.

- Nah, you said it, Sena Sorrows; Juaniyo me to eat, that is. And as I get to eat, I have that
obedeserle ... But Nah, you come here, madam, please me. I designed my matador that must go
to the corner ... Bueno. That Dirna when I am in a otomóvil matron
pretty mu ... What we haserle?

The matador rules. Aemás, I was not alone.

Also Stew was, who is a person of Argun Eda and respect, even if a brute. Never laughs.

The torero's mother was angry with this excuse.

- Stew! A bad man who should not yevar Juaniyo in his squad if he had vergüensa. Do not talk about
that drunkard who beats his wife and has starved the boys.

- Bueno: Out stew ... Matron aqueya say I saw, what would hase? There was a hussy; is the niece
der Marquis, a supporter of the teacher, and bullfighters Nah, you know to be right with people
who can. Der must live audience. What's wrong with this? ... Aluego, in farm er, na! Nah, you swear
it by my own: na! Bueno pa me take this owl although I send him my matador! I am a desente,
Sena Sorrows, and hase Nah, you wrong in yamarme that ugly to me
endenantes Yamao.

By the life of Dove ... When is the committee and come to consult
with one elecsiones day, and council and have CHOCAO this diputaos
Nah, you go hand here, you can haser deserts papers?

... I repeat, na. Nah, you are talking about, same as Nah, you and I. Every one spent the night
by Lao-not a bad look, no word ugly. Desensia a toas hours ... And if Potaje Nah, you would
like to come, he would say ...

But Carmen cut him off with a plaintive voice cut by sighs.

- In my house! - Moaning with a puzzled expression -. In the farmhouse!

... Eya and lay down in my bed! ... I knew it too, and cayaba, cayaba! ... But this! Joshua! This
is not in toa Seviya a man who dares to so much! ...

The National kindly intervened. Quiet, Carmen. If that did not matter! A visit to the country
estate of an enthusiastic woman teacher, who wanted to see up close how he lived in the field. These
ladies foreign media are always whimsical and weird.

For if it had seen the French, when he was a gang fight in Nimes and Arles! ...

- Total, na. Too ... "Liquid"! Man, the blue dove! Cones would like to desahogao which came with
the breath. Juaniyo Yo, if it was arguia der farm, put him in the door; and if outside the
Juesas pa yamaba you get into the Carsel a liar and evil enemy.

Carmen was still crying, without listening to the angry expressions of banderillero, while Mrs
Angus, sitting in an armchair, which will ball up against his boundless
obesity, frowned and pressed his mouth and rough hairy.

- Caya, Sebastian,
and do not lie - said the old woman -.

I know too. A spree on such a trip indesente the farmhouse, a party
of gypsies. Through design that was with you Plumitas the thief.

Here
the National jumped, driven by surprise and concern. He thought that
entered in the courtyard, trampling the slabs of marble, a poorly
sketched rider, wearing a hat filthy and dismounted from his horse,
pointing a rifle and talkative and fearful. Then it seemed see tricorn,
tricorn many bright rubber, mustached mouths and inquisitive, hands
writing, and all the crew, dressed in costumes, tied side by side,
road prison. Here there had to be vigorously denied.

- "Liquid!"
Too "liquid"! What's Plumitas Nah, you speak? There was no more than
desensia. They told me you had settled
down to live with one of the creatures, a woman who had made her living in the dance-halls,
and every one knows no woman ever did that and remained straight. They warned me of the character
of this girl, of your infatuation, of your callousness to public opinion. They told me how
barefaced, how shameless you were. They begged me to try and save you. I would not believe
it, but now I've come to see for myself, and it's all true, it's all true." I have the shame
on Pepona house, which is there ... land. A very decent house, in five hard. Come by, you really
apresian. Girls comb and do rests with the gentlemen ... Oh, if I lived my probe child! Pepiyo Remember?
... Do you remember the evening he died? ...

Gallardo, after putting a penny in his dry hand, struggled to get away from this talk, which began
tremors shaking with tears. Damn witch! Coming to remind days of racing the poor Lechuguero, a fellow
first years, who had been killed almost instantly a goring in the
heart Lebrija Square, when the two toreaban as novilleros! He sighed.

"Well, well," he said, "have it your own way. 

[40] Jusepe Martínez. Practical dialogue of the art of painting. 188.

[42] Cross-Villamil and Don Pedro de Madrazo, say the first of the
two portraits is the which is now at the Pitti Gallery in Florence.
Beruete considered copying.
