"What a dear boy you are, Jack," he said, backing toward the sofa and regaining his seat. "You've
got a heart as big as a house, and I'm proud of you, but no--not a penny of your money. Think
a moment! Your father didn't leave the property to me--not any part of it--he left it to you,
you spendthrift! When I get too old to work I am going up to Felicia's and pick out an easy-chair
and sit in a corner and dry up gradually and be laid away in lavender. No, my lad, not a penny!
Gift money should go to cripples and hypochondriacs, not to spry old gentlemen. I would not
take it from my own father's estate when I was your age, and I certainly won't take it now
from you. I made Felicia take it all." Jack opened his eyes. He had often wondered why Peter
had so little and she so much. "Oh, yes, nearly forty years ago! But I have never regretted
it since! And you must see how just it was, for there wasn't enough for two, and Felicia was
a woman. No--be very careful of gift money, my boy, and be very careful, also, of too much
of anybody's money--even your own. What makes me most glad in this whole affair is that Guthrie
didn't give you a million--that might have spoilt you. This is just enough. You and Ruth can
start square. You can help Henry--and you ought to, he has been mighty good to you. And, best
of all, you can keep at work. Yes--that's the best part of it--that you can keep at work. Go
right on as you are; work every single day of your life, and earn your bread as you have done
ever since you left New York, and, one thing more, and don't you ever forget it: Be sure you
take your proper share of fun and rest as you go. Eight hours' work, eight hours' play, eight
hours' sleep--that's the golden rule and the only one to live by. Money will never get its
grip on you if you keep this up. This fortune hasn't yet tightened its fingers around your
throat, or you would never have come up here to give me half of it--and never let it! Money
is your servant, my boy, not your master. And now go home and kiss Ruth for me, and tell her
that I love her dearly. Wait a moment. I will go with you as far as Isaac's. I am going to
tell him the good news. Then I'll have him measure me for a coat to dance at your wedding."

And the Unexpecteds are not yet over. There was still another, of quite a different character,
about to fall--and out of another clear sky, too--a sort of April-shower sky, where you get
wet on one side of the street and keep dry on the other. Jack had the dry side this time, and
went on his way rejoicing, but the head of the house of Breen caught the downpour, and a very
wet downpour it was.

It all occurred when Jack was hurrying to the ferry and when he ran into the senior member
of the firm, who was hurrying in the opposite direction.

"Ah, Jack!--the very man I wanted to see," cried Breen. "I was going to write you. There's
something doing up in that ore country. Better drop in to-morrow, I may be able to handle it
for you, after all."

"I am sorry, sir, but it's not for sale," said Jack, trying to smother his glee.

"Why?" demanded Breen bluntly.

"I have sold it to Mr. Robert Guthrie."

"Guthrie! The devil you say!--When?"

"To-day. The final papers are signed to-morrow. Excuse me, I must catch my boat--" and away
he went, his cup now brimming over, leaving Breen biting his lips and muttering to himself
as he gazed after him.

"Guthrie!--My customer! Damn that boy--I might have known he would land on his feet."

But Jack kept on home to his sweetheart, most of the way in the air.

Down in the little room all this time in the rear of the tailor's shop the two old men sat
talking. Peter kept nothing back; his lips quivering again and another unbidden tear peeping
over the edge of his eyelid when he told of Jack's offer.

"A dear boy, Isaac--yes, a dear boy. He never thinks with his head--only with his heart. Never
has since I knew him. Impulsive, emotional, unpractical, no doubt--and yet somehow he always
wins. Queer--very queer! He comes upstairs to me and I start out on a fool's errand. He goes
down to you, and you hand him out your money. He gives it all away the next day, and then we
have Guthrie doubling the price. Queer, I tell you, Isaac--extraordinary, that's what it is--almost
uncanny."

The Jew threw away his cigar, rested his short elbows on the arms of his chair, and made a
basket of his hands, the tips of all his fingers touching.

"No, you are wrong, my good friend. It is not extraordinary and it is not uncanny. It is very
simple--exceedingly simple. Nobody runs over a child if he can help it. Even a thief will bring
you back your pocket-book if you trust him to take care of it. It is the trusting that does
it. Few men, no matter how crooked, can resist the temptation of reaching, if only for a moment,
an honest man's level."

CHAPTER XXXIII

Peter's coat was finished in time for the wedding--trust Isaac for that--and so was his double-breasted
white waistcoat--he had not changed the cut in twenty years; and so were his pepper-and-salt
trousers and all his several appointments, little and big, even to his polka-dot scarf of blue
silk, patent-leather shoes and white gaiters. Quite the best-dressed man in the room, everybody
said, and they of all the people in the world should have known.

And the wedding!

And all that went before it, and all that took place on that joyous day; and all that came
after that happiest of events!

Ruth and Jack, with Peter's covert endorsement, had wanted to slip into the village church
some afternoon at dusk, with daddy and Peter and Miss Felicia, and one or two more, and then
to slip out again and disappear. MacFarlane had been in favor of the old Maryland home, with
Ruth's grandmother in charge, and the neighbors driving up in mud-encrusted buggies and lumbering
coaches, their inmates warmed by roaring fires and roaring welcomes--fat turkeys, hot waffles,
egg-nogg, apple-toddy, and the rest of it. The head of the house of Breen expressed the opinion
(this on the day Jack gave his check for the bonds prior to returning them to Isaac, who wouldn't
take a cent of interest) that the ceremony should by all means take place in Grace Church,
after which everybody would adjourn to his house on the Avenue, where the wedding-breakfast
would be served, he being nearest of kin to the groom, and the bride being temporarily without
a home of her own--a proposition which, it is needless to say, Jack declined on the spot, but
in terms so courteous and with so grand and distinguished an air that the head of the house
of Breen found his wonder increasing at the change that had come over the boy since he shook
the dust of the Breen home and office from his feet.

The Grande Dame of Geneseo did not agree with any of these makeshifts. There would be no Corklesville
wedding if she could help it, with gaping loungers at the church door; nor would there be any
Maryland wedding with a ten-mile ride over rough roads to a draughty country-house, where your
back would freeze while your cheeks burned up; nor yet again any city wedding, with an awning
over the sidewalk, a red carpet and squad of police, with Tom, Dick, and Harry inside the church,
and Harry, Dick and Tom squeezed into an oak-panelled dining-room at high noon with every gas-jet
blazing.

And she did not waste many seconds coming to this conclusion. Off went a telegram, after hearing
the various propositions, followed by a letter, that might have melted the wires and set fire
to the mail-sack, so fervid were the contents.

"Nonsense! My dear Ruth, you will be married in my house and the breakfast will be in the garden.
If Peter and your father haven't got any common sense, that's no reason why you and Jack should
lose your wits."

This, of course, ended the matter. No one living or dead had ever been found with nerve enough
to withstand Felicia Grayson when she had once made up her mind.

And then, again, there was no time to lose in unnecessary discussions. Were not Ruth and her
father picnicking in a hired villa, with half their household goods in a box-car at Morfordsburg?--and
was not Jack still living in his two rooms at Mrs. Hicks's? The only change suggested by the
lovers was in the date of the wedding, Miss Felicia having insisted that it should not take
place until November, "FOUR WHOLE WEEKS AWAY." But the old lady would not budge. Four weeks
at least, she insisted, would be required for the purchase and making of the wedding clothes,
which, with four more for the honeymoon (at this both Jack and Ruth shouted with laughter,
they having determined on a honeymoon the like of which had never been seen since Adam and
Eve went to housekeeping in the Garden). These eight weeks, continued the practical old lady,
would be required to provide a suitable home for them both; now an absolute necessity, seeing
that Mr. Guthrie had made extensive contracts with MacFarlane, which, with Jack's one-fifth
interest in the ore banks was sure to keep Jack and MacFarlane at Morfordsburg for some years
to come.

So whizz went another telegram--this time from Jack--there was no time for letters these days--stopping
all work on the nearly completed log cabin which the poor young superintendent had ordered,
and which was all he could afford, before the sale of the ore lands. But then THAT seemed ages
and ages ago.

"Don't tell me what I want, sir," roared Mr. Golightly at the waiter, in "Lend Me Five Shillings,"
when he brought a crust of bread and cheese and a pickle with which to entertain Mrs. Phobbs;
Golightly in the meantime having discovered a purse full of sovereigns in the coat the waiter
had handed him by mistake. "Don't tell me what I said, sir. I know what I said, sir! I said
champagne, sir, and plenty of it, sir!--turkeys, and plenty of them!

Burgundy--partridges--lobsters--pineapple punch--pickled salmon--everything! Look sharp, Be
off!" (Can't you hear dear Joe Jefferson's voice, gentle reader, through it all?)

And now listen to our proud Jack, with the clink of his own gold in his own pocket.

"What did you say? A six by nine log hut, with a sheet-iron stove in one corner and a cast-iron
bedstead in another, and a board closet, and a table and two chairs--and this, too, for a princess
of quality and station? Zounds, sirrah!--" (Holker Morris was the "Sirrah")--"I didn't order
anything of the kind. I ordered a bungalow all on one floor--that's what I ordered--with a
boudoir and two bedrooms, and an extra one for my honored father-in-law, and still another
for my thrice-honored uncle, Mr. Peter Grayson, when he shall come to stay o' nights; and porches
front and back where my lady's hammock may be slung: and a fireplace big enough to roll logs
into as thick around as your body and wide enough to warm every one all over; and a stable
for my lady's mare, with a stall for my saddle-horse. Out upon you, you Dago!"

Presto, what a change! Away went the completed roof of the modest cabin and down tumbled the
sides. More post-holes were dug; more trenches excavated; more great oaks toppled over to be
sliced into rafters, joists and uprights; more shingles--two carloads; more brick; more plaster;
more everything, including nails, locks, hinges, sash; bath-tubs--two; lead pipe, basins, kitchen
range--and so the new bungalow was begun.

Neither was there any time to be lost over the invitations. Miss Felicia, we may be sure, prepared
the list. It never bothered her head whether the trip to Geneseo--and that, too, in the fall
of the year, when early snows were to be expected--might prevent any of the invited guests
from witnessing the glad ceremony. Those who loved Ruth she knew would come even if they had
to be accompanied by St. Bernard dogs with kegs of brandy tied to their necks to get them across
the glaciers, including Uncle Peter, of course; as would also Ruth's dear grandmother, who
was just Miss Felicia's age, and MacFarlane's saintly sister Kate, who had never taken off
her widow's weeds since the war, and two of her girl friends, with whom Ruth went to school,
and who were to be her bridesmaids.

Then there were those who might or might not struggle through the drifts, if there happened
to be any--the head of the house of Breen, for instance, and Mrs. B., and lots and lots of
people of whom Jack had never heard, aunts and uncles and cousins by the dozens; and lots and
lots of people of whom Ruth had never heard, of the same blood relationship; and lots more
of people from Washington Square and Murray Hill, who loved the young people, and Peter, and
his outspoken sister, all of whom must be invited to the ceremony; including the Rector and
his wife from Corklesville, and--(no--that was all from Corklesville) together with such selected
inhabitants of Geneseo as dame Felicia permitted inside of her doors. As for the several ambassadors,
generals, judges, dignitaries, attaches, secretaries, and other high and mighty folks forming
the circle of Miss Felicia's acquaintance, both here and abroad, they were only to receive
"announcement" cards, just as a reminder that Miss Grayson of Geneseo was still in and of the
world.

The hardest nut of all to crack was given to Jack. They had all talked it over, the dear girl
saying "of course he shall come, Jack, if you would like to have him." Jack adding that he
should "never forget his generosity," and MacFarlane closing the discussion by saying:

"Go slow, Jack. I'd say yes in a minute. I am past all those foolish prejudices, but it isn't
your house, remember. Better ask Peter--he'll tell you."

Peter pursed his mouth when Jack laid the matter before him in Peter's room the next day, tipped
his head so far on one side that it looked as if it might roll off any minute and go smash,
and with an arching of his eyebrows said:

"Well, but why NOT invite Isaac? Has anybody ever been as good to you?"

"Never any one, Uncle Peter--and I think as you do, and so does Ruth and Mr. MacFarlane, but--"
The boy hesitated and looked away.

"But what?" queried Peter.

"Well--there's Aunt Felicia. You know how particular she is; and she doesn't know how splendid
Mr. Cohen has been, and if he came to the wedding she might not like it."

"But Felicia is not going to be married, my boy," remarked Peter, with a dry smile wrinkling
the corners of his eyes.

Jack laughed. "Yes--but it's her house."

"Yes--and your wedding. Now go down and ask Mr. Cohen yourself. You'll send him a card, of
course, but do more than that. Call on him personally and tell you want him to come, and why--and
that I want him, too. That will please him still more. The poor fellow lives a great deal alone.
Whether he will come or not, I don't know--but ask him. You owe it to yourself as much as you
do to him."

"And you don't think Aunt Felicia will--"

"Hang Felicia! You do what you think is right; it does not matter what Felicia or anybody else
thinks."

Jack wheeled about and strode downstairs and into the back room where the little man sat at
his desk looking over some papers. Isaac's hand was out and he was on his feet before Jack
had reached his side.

"Ah!--Mr. Millionaire. And so you have come to tell me some more good news. Have you sold another
mine? I should have looked out to see whether your carriage did not stop at my door; and now
sit down and tell me what I can do for you. How well you look, and how happy. Ah, it is very
good to be young!"

"What you can do for me is this, Mr. Cohen. I want you to come to our wedding--will you? I
have come myself to ask you," said Jack in all sincerity.

"So! And you have come yourself." He was greatly pleased; his face showed it. "Well, that is
very kind of you, but let me first congratulate you. Yes--Mr. Grayson told me all about it,
and how lovely the young lady is. And now tell me, when is your wedding?"

"Next month."

"And where will it be?"

"At Uncle Peter's old home up at Geneseo."

"Oh, at that grand lady's place--the magnificent Miss Grayson." "Yes, but it is only one night
away. I will see that you are taken care of."

The little man paused and toyed with the papers on his desk. His black, diamond-pointed eyes
sparkled and an irrepressible smile hung around his lips.

"Thank you very much, Mr. Breen--and thank your young lady too. You are very kind and you are
very polite. Yes--I mean it--very polite. And you are sincere in what you say; that is the
best of all. But I cannot go. It is not the travelling at night--that is nothing. You and your
lady would be glad to see me and that would be worth it all, but the magnificent Miss Grayson,
she would not be glad to see me. You see, my dear young man"--here the smile got loose and
scampered up to his eyelids--"I am a most unfortunate combination--oh, most unfortunate--for
the magnificent Miss Grayson. If I was only a tailor I might be forgiven; if I was just a Jew
I might be forgiven; but when I am both a tailor and a Jew"--here the irrepressible went to
pieces in a merry laugh--"don't you see how impossible it is? And you--you, Mr. Breen! She
would never forgive you. 'My friend, Mr. Cohen,' you would have to say, and she could do nothing.
She must answer that she is most glad to see me--or she might NOT answer, which would be worse.
And it is not her fault. You can't break down the barriers of centuries in a day. No--no--I
will not compromise you in that way. Let me come to see you some time when it is all over,
when your good uncle can come too. He will bring me; perhaps. And now give my best respects
to the lady--I forget her name, and say to her for me, that if she is as thoughtful of other
people as you are, you deserve to be a very happy couple."

Jack shook the little man's hand and went his way. He was sorry and he was glad. He was also
somewhat ashamed in his heart. It was not altogether himself who had been thoughtful of other
people. But for Peter, perhaps, he might never have paid the visit.

As the blissful day approached Geneseo was shaken to its centre, the vibrations reaching to
the extreme limits of the town. Not only was Moggins who drove the village 'bus and tucked
small packages under the seat on the sly, overworked, but all the regular and irregular express
companies had to put on extra teams. Big box, little box, band box, bundle, began to pour in,
to say nothing of precious packages that nobody but "Miss Grayson" could sign for. And then
such a litter of cut paper and such mounds of pasteboard boxes poked under Miss Felicia's bed,
so she could defend them in the dead of night, and with her life if necessary, each one containing
presents, big and little; the very biggest being a flamboyant service of silver from the head
of the house of Breen and his wife, and the smallest a velvet-bound prayer-book from Aunt Kate
with inter-remembrances from MacFarlane (all the linen, glass, and china); from Peter (two
old decanters with silver coasters); from Miss Felicia (the rest of her laces, besides innumerable
fans and some bits of rare jewelry); besides no end of things from the Holker Morrises and
the Fosters and dozens of others, who loved either Ruth or Jack, or somebody whom each one
or both of them loved, or perhaps their fathers and mothers before them. The Scribe has forgotten
the list and the donors, and really it is of no value, except as confirmation of the fact that
they are still in the possession of the couple, and that none of them was ever exchanged for
something else nor will be until the end of time.

One curious-looking box, however, smelling of sandalwood and dried cinnamon, and which arrived
the day the ceremony took place, is worthy of recall, because of the universal interest which
it excited. It was marked "Fragile" on the outside, and was packed with extraordinary care.
Miss Felicia superintended the unrolling and led the chorus of "Oh, how lovely!" herself, when
an Imari jar, with carved teakwood stand, was brought to light. So exquisite was it in glaze,
form, and color that for a moment no one thought of the donor. Then their curiosity got the
better of them and they began to search through the wrappings for the card. It wasn't in the
box; it wasn't hidden in the final bag; it wasn't--here a bright thought now flashed through
the dear lady's brain--down went her shapely hand into the depths of the tall jar, and up came
an envelope bearing Ruth's name and enclosing a card which made the grande dame catch her breath.

"Mr. Isaac Cohen! What--the little tailor!" she gasped out. "The Jew! Well, upon my word--did
you ever hear of such impudence!"

Isaac would have laughed the harder could he have seen her face.

Jack caught up the vase and ran with it to Ruth, who burst out with another: "Oh, what a beauty!"
followed by "Who sent it?"

"A gentleman journeyman tailor, my darling," said Jack, with a flash of his eye at Peter, his
face wreathed in smiles.

And with the great day--a soft November day--summer had lingered on a-purpose--came the guests:
the head of the house of Breen and his wife--not poor Corinne, of course, who poured out her
heart in a letter instead, which she entrusted to her mother to deliver; and Holker Morris
and Mrs. Morris, and the Fosters and the Granthams and Wildermings and their wives and daughters
and sons, and one stray general, who stopped over on his way to the West, and who said when
he entered, looking so very grand and important, that he didn't care whether he had been invited
to the ceremony or not, at which Miss Felicia was delighted, he being a major-general on the
retired list, and not a poor tailor who--no, we won't refer to that again; besides a very,
VERY select portion of the dear lady's townspeople--the house being small, as she explained,
and Miss MacFarlane's intimates and acquaintances being both importunate and numerous.

And with the gladsome hour came the bride.

None of us will ever forget her. Not only was she a vision of rare loveliness, but there was
in her every glance and movement that stateliness and grace that poise and sureness of herself
that marks the high-born woman the world over when she finds herself the cynosure of all eyes.

All who saw her descend Miss Felicia's stairs held their breath in adoration: Not a flight
of steps at all, but a Jacob's ladder down which floated a company of angels in pink and ivory--one
all in white, her lovely head crowned by a film of old lace in which nestled a single rose.

On she came--slowly--proudly--her slippered feet touching the carpeted steps as daintily as
treads a fawn; her gown crinkling into folds of silver about her knees, one fair hand lost
in a mist of gauze, the other holding the blossoms which Jack had pressed to his lips--until
she reached her father's side.

"Dear daddy," I heard her whisper as she patted his sleeve with her fingers.

Ah! but it was a proud day for MacFarlane. I saw his bronzed and weather-beaten face flush
when he caught sight of her in all her gracious beauty; but it was when she reached his side
and laid her hand on his arm, as he told me afterward, that the choke came. She was so like
her mother.

