 Salemina returned to the
boat, while Francesca and I wended our way among the heaps of luggage, followed by crowds of
ragamuffins, who offered to run for a car, run for a cab, run for a porter, carry our luggage
up the street to the cab-stand, carry our wraps, carry us, 'do any mortial thing for a penny,
melady, an' there is no cars here, melady, God bless me sowl, and that He be good to us all
if I'm tellin' you a word of a lie!'

Entirely unused to this flow of conversation, we were obliged to stop every few seconds to
recount our luggage and try to remember what we were looking for. We all met finally, and I
rescued Salemina from the voluble thanks of an old woman to whom she had thoughtlessly given
a three-penny bit. This mother of a 'long wake family' was wishing that Salemina might live
to 'ate the hin' that scratched over her grave, and invoking many other uncommon and picturesque
blessings, but we were obliged to ask her to desist and let us attend to our own business.

"Will I clane the whole of thim off for you for a penny, your ladyship's honour, ma'am?" asked
the oldest of the ragamuffins, and I gladly assented to the novel proposition. He did it, too,
and there seemed to be no hurt feelings in the company.

Just then there was a rattle of cabs and side-cars, and our self-constituted major-domo engaged
two of them to await our pleasure. At the same moment our eyes lighted upon Salemina's huge
Vuitton, which had been dragged behind the pile of wool sacks. It was no wonder it had escaped
our notice, for it was mostly covered by the person of the sea-sick maiden whom I had seen
on the arm of the stewardess. She was seated on it, exhaustion in every line of her figure,
her head upon my travelling bag, her feet dangling over the edge until they just touched the
'S. P., Salem, Mass., U.S.A.' painted in large red letters on the end. She was too ill to respond
to our questions, but there was no mistaking her nationality. Her dress, hat, shoes, gloves,
face, figure were American. We sent for the stewardess, who told us that she had arrived in
Glasgow on the day previous, and had been very ill all the way coming from Boston.

"Boston!" exclaimed Salemina. "Do you say she is from Boston, poor thing?"

("I didn't know that a person living in Boston could ever, under any circumstances, be a 'poor
thing,'" whispered Francesca to me.)

"She was not fit to be crossing last night, and the doctor on the American ship told her so,
and advised her to stay in bed for three days before coming to Ireland; but it seems as if
she were determined to get to her journey's end."

"We must have our trunk," I interposed. "Can't we move her carefully over to the wool sacks,
and won't you stay with her until her friends come?"

"She has no friends in this country, ma'am. She's just travelling for pleasure like."

"Good gracious! what a position for her to be in," said Salemina. "Can't you take her back
to the steamer and put her to bed?"

"I could ask the captain, certainly, miss, though of course it's something we never do, and
besides we have to set the ship to rights and go across again this evening."

"Ask her what hotel she is going to, Salemina," we suggested, "and let us drop her there, and
put her in charge of the housekeeper; of course if it is only sea-sickness she will be all
right in the morning."

The girl's eyes were closed, but she opened them languidly as Salemina chafed her cold hands,
and asked gently if we could not drive her to an hotel.

"Is--this--your--baggage?" she whispered.

"It is," Salemina answered, somewhat puzzled.

"Then don't--leave me here, I am from Salem--myself," whereupon without any more warning she
promptly fainted away on the trunk.

The situation was becoming embarrassing. The assemblage grew larger, and a more interesting
and sympathetic audience I never saw. To an Irish crowd, always warm-hearted and kindly, willing
to take any trouble for friend or stranger, and with a positive terror of loneliness, or separation
from kith and kin, the helpless creature appealed in every way. One and another joined the
group with a "Holy Biddy! what's this at all?"

"The saints presarve us, is it dyin' she is?"

"Look at the iligant duds she do be wearin'."

"Call the docthor, is it? God give you sinse! Sure the docthors is only a flock of omadhauns."

"Is it your daughter she is, ma'am?" (This to Salemina.)

"She's from Ameriky, the poor mischancy crathur."

"Give her a toothful of whisky, your ladyship. Sure it's nayther bite nor sup she's had the
morn, and belike she's as impty as a quarry-hole."

When this last expression from the mother of the long weak family fell upon Salemina's cultured
ears she looked desperate.

We could not leave a fellow-countrywoman, least of all could Salemina forsake a fellow-citizen,
in such a hapless plight.

"Take one cab with Francesca and the luggage, Penelope," she whispered. "I will bring the girl
with me, put her to bed, find her friends, and see that she starts on her journey safely; it's
very awkward, but there's nothing else to be done."

So we departed in a chorus of popular approval.

"Sure it's you that have the good hearts!"

"May the heavens be your bed!"

"May the journey thrive wid her, the crathur!"

Francesca and I arrived first at the hotel where our rooms were already engaged, and there
proved to be a comfortable little dressing, or maid's, room just off Salemina's.

Here the Derelict was presently ensconced, and there she lay, in a sort of profound exhaustion,
all day, without once absolutely regaining her consciousness. Instead of visiting the National
Gallery as I had intended, I returned to the dock to see if I could find the girl's luggage,
or get any further information from the stewardess before she left Dublin.

"I'll send the doctor at once, but we must learn all possible particulars now," I said maliciously
to poor Salemina. "It would be so awkward, you know, if you should be arrested for abduction."

The doctor thought it was probably nothing more than the complete prostration that might follow
eight days of sea-sickness, but the patient's heart was certainly a little weak, and she needed
the utmost quiet. His fee was a guinea for the first visit, and he would drop in again in the
course of the afternoon to relieve our anxiety. We took turns in watching by her bedside, but
the two unemployed ones lingered forlornly near, and had no heart for sightseeing. Francesca
did, however, purchase opera tickets for the evening, and secretly engaged the housemaid to
act as head nurse in our absence.

As we were dining at seven, we heard a faint voice in the little room beyond. Salemina left
her dinner and went in to find her charge slightly better. We had been able thus far only to
take off her dress, shoes, and such garments as made her uncomfortable; Salemina now managed
to slip on a nightdress and put her under the bedcovers, returning then to her cold mutton cutlet.

"She's an extraordinary person," she said, absently playing with her knife and fork. "She didn't
ask me where she was, or show any interest in her surroundings; perhaps she is still too weak.
She said she was better, and when I had made her ready for bed, she whispered, 'I've got to
say my prayers'.

"'Say them by all means,' I replied.

"'But I must get up and kneel down, she said.

"I told her she must do nothing of the sort; that she was far too ill.

"'But I must,' she urged. 'I never go to bed without saying my prayers on my knees.'

"I forbade her doing it; she closed her eyes, and I came away. Isn't she quaint?"

At this juncture we heard the thud of a soft falling body, and rushing in we found that the
Derelict had crept from her bed to her knees, and had probably not prayed more than two minutes
before she fainted for the fifth or sixth time in twenty-four hours. Salemina was vexed, angel
and philanthropist though she is. Francesca and I were so helpless with laughter that we could
hardly lift the too conscientious maiden into bed. The situation may have been pathetic; to
the truly pious mind it would indeed have been indescribably touching, but for the moment the
humorous side of it was too much for our self-control. Salemina, in rushing for stimulants
and smelling salts, broke her only comfortable eyeglasses, and this accident, coupled with
her other anxieties and responsibilities, caused her to shed tears, an occurrence so unprecedented
that Francesca and I kissed and comforted her and tucked her up on the sofa. Then we sent for
the doctor, gave our opera tickets to the head waiter and chambermaid, and settled down to
a cheerful home evening, our first in Ireland.

"If Himself were here, we should not be in this plight," I sighed.

"I don't know how you can say that," responded Salemina, with considerable spirit. "You know
perfectly well that if your husband had found a mother and seven children helpless and deserted
on that dock, he would have brought them all to this hotel, and then tried to find the father
and grandfather."

"And it's not Salemina's fault," argued Francesca. "She couldn't help the girl being born in
Salem; not that I believe that she ever heard of the place before she saw it printed on Salemina's
trunk. I told you it was too big and red, dear, but you wouldn't listen! I am the strongest
American of the party, but I confess that U.S.A. in letters five inches long is too much for
my patriotism."

"It would not be if you ever had charge of the luggage," retorted Salemina.

"And whatever you do, Francesca," I added beseechingly, "don't impugn the veracity of our Derelict.
While we think of ourselves as ministering angels I can endure anything, but if we are the
dupes of an adventuress, there is nothing pretty about it. By the way, I have consulted the
English manageress of this hotel, who was not particularly sympathetic. 'Perhaps you shouldn't
have assumed charge of her, madam,' she said, 'but having done so, hadn't you better see if
you can get her into a hospital?' It isn't a bad suggestion, and after a day or two we will
consider it, or I will get a trained nurse to take full charge of her. I would be at any reasonable
expense rather than have our pleasure interfered with any further."

It still seems odd to make a proposition of this kind. In former times, Francesca was the Croesus
of the party, Salemina came second, and I last, with a most precarious income. Now I am the
wealthy one, Francesca is reduced to the second place, and Salemina to the third, but it makes
no difference whatever, either in our relations, our arrangements, or, for that matter, in
our expenditures.

Chapter IV. Enter Benella Dusenberry.

     'A fair maiden wander'd
        All wearied and lone,
      Sighing, "I'm a poor stranger,
        And far from my own."
      We invited her in,
      We offered her share
      Of our humble cottage
      And our humble fare;
      We bade her take comfort,
      No longer to moan,
      And made the poor stranger
      Be one of our own.'
                      Old Irish Song.

The next morning dawned as lovely as if it had slipped out of Paradise, and as for freshness,
and emerald sheen, the world from our windows was like a lettuce leaf just washed in dew. The
windows of my bedroom looked out pleasantly on St. Stephen's Green, commonly called Stephen's
Green, or by citizens of the baser sort, Stephens's Green. It is a good English mile in circumference,
and many are the changes in it from the time it was first laid out, in 1670, to the present
day, when it was made into a public park by Lord Ardilaun.

When the celebrated Mrs. Delany, then Mrs. Pendarves, first saw it, the centre was a swamp,
where in winter a quantity of snipe congregated, and Harris in his History of Dublin alludes
to the presence of snipe and swamp as an agreeable and uncommon circumstance not to be met
with perhaps in any other great city in the world.

A double row of spreading lime-trees bordered its four sides, one of which, known as Beaux'
Walk, was a favourite lounge for fashionable idlers. Here stood Bishop Clayton's residence,
a large building with a front like Devonshire House in Piccadilly: so writes Mrs. Delany. It
was splendidly furnished, and the bishop lived in a style which proves that Irish prelates
of the day were not all given to self-abnegation and mortification of the flesh.

A long line of vehicles, outside-cars and cabs, some of them battered and shaky, others sufficiently
well-looking, was gathering on two sides of the Green, for Dublin, you know, is 'the car-drivingest
city in the world.' Francesca and I had our first experience yesterday in the intervals of
nursing, driving to Dublin Castle, Trinity College, the Four Courts, and Grafton Street (the
Regent Street of Dublin). It is easy to tell the stranger, stiff, decorous, terrified, clutching
the rail with one or both hands, but we took for our model a pretty Irish girl, who looked
like nothing so much as a bird on a swaying bough. It is no longer called the 'jaunting,' but
the outside car and there is another charming word lost to the world. There was formerly an
inside-car too, but it is almost unknown in Dublin, though still found in some of the smaller
towns. An outside-car has its wheels practically inside the body of the vehicle, but an inside
car carries its wheels outside. This definition was given us by an Irish driver, but lucid
definition is not perhaps an Irishman's strong point. It is clearer to say that the passenger
sits outside of the wheels on the one, inside on the other. There are seats for two persons
over each of the two wheels, and a dickey for the driver in front, should he need to use it.
Ordinarily he sits on one side, driving, while you perch on the other, and thus you jog along,
each seeing your own side of the road, and discussing the topics of the day across the 'well,'
as the covered-in centre of the car is called. There are those who do not agree with its champions,
who call it 'Cupid's own conveyance'; they find the seat too small for two, yet feel it a bit
unsociable when the companion occupies the opposite side. To me a modern Dublin car with rubber
tires and a good Irish horse is the jolliest vehicle in the universe; there is a liveliness,
an irresponsible gaiety, in the spring and sway of it; an ease in the half-lounging position
against the cushions, a unique charm in 'travelling edgeways' with your feet planted on the
step. You must not be afraid of a car if you want to enjoy it. Hold the rail if you must, at
first, though it's just as bad form as clinging to your horse's mane while riding in the Row.
Your driver will take all the chances that a crowded thoroughfare gives him; he would scorn
to leave more than an inch between your feet and a Guinness' beer dray; he will shake your
flounces and furbelows in the very windows of the passing trams, but he is beloved by the gods,
and nothing ever happens to him.

The morning was enchanting, as I said, and, above all, the Derelict was better.

"It's a grand night's slape I had wid her intirely," said the housemaid; "an' sure it's not
to-day she'll be dyin' on you at all, at all; she's had the white drink in the bowl twyst,
and a grand cup o' tay on the top o' that."

Salemina fortified herself with breakfast before she went in to an interview, which we all
felt to be important and decisive. The time seemed endless to us, and endless were our suppositions.

