The Mahrek-Ha-Droad, cavalry and footmen, of the tribes near that of Karnak, which my father
commanded, darted down the slope with the rest of the army. Mikael, holding his axe in his
right hand, was, during this impetuous descent, almost continually suspended from the mane
of my horse, which he had seized with his left. At the foot of the slope, that troop of the
Romans called the Iron Legion, because of their heavy armor, formed in a wedge. Immovable as
a wall of steel, bristling with spears, it made ready to receive our charge on the points of
its lances. I carried, in common with all the Gallic horsemen, a saber at my left side, an
axe at my right, and in my hand a heavy staff capped with iron. For helmet I had a bonnet of
fur, for breastplate a jacket of boar-hide, and strips of leather were wrapped around my legs
where the breeches did not cover them. Mikael was armed with a tipped staff and a saber, and
carried a light shield on his left arm.

"Leap on the crupper!" I cried to my brother at the moment when the horses, now no longer under
control, arrived at full gallop on the lances of the Iron Legion. Immediately we arrived within
range we hurled our iron capped staffs full at the heads of the Romans with all our might.
My staff struck hard and square on the helmet of a legionary, who, falling backward, dragged
down with him the soldier behind. Through this gap my horse plunged into the thickest of the
legion. Others followed me. In the melee the fight grew sharp. Mikael, always at my side, leaped
sometimes, in order to deliver a blow from a greater height, to my horse's crupper, other times
he made of the animal a rampart. He fought valorously. Once I was half unhorsed. Mikael protected
me with his weapon till I regained my seat. The other foot-soldiers of the Mahrek-Ha-Droad
fought in the same manner, each one beside his own horseman.

"Brother, you are wounded," I said to Mikael. "See, your blouse is red."

"You too, brother," he responded. "Look at your bloody breeches."

And, in truth, in the heat of combat, we do not feel these wounds.

My father, chief of the Mahrek-Ha-Droad, was not accompanied by a foot-soldier. Twice we joined
him in the midst of the fight. His arm, strong for all his age, struck incessantly. His heavy
axe resounded on the iron armors like a hammer on the anvil. His stallion Tom-Bras bit furiously
all the Romans within reach. One of them he almost lifted off the ground in his rearing. He
held the man by the nape of the neck, and the blood was spurting. When the tide of the combat
again carried Mikael and myself near our father, he was wounded. I overcame one of the brenn's
assailants by trampling him under my horse's feet; then we were again separated from my father.
Mikael and myself knew nothing of the other movements of the battle. Engaged in the conflict
before us, we had no other thought than to tumble the Iron Legion into the river. To that end
we struggled hard. Already our horses were stumbling over corpses as if in a quagmire. We heard,
not far off, the piercing voices of the bards; their voices were heard over the tumult.

"Victory to Gaul!--Liberty! Liberty! Another blow with the axe! Another effort! Strike, strike,
ye Gauls.--And the Roman is vanquished.--And Gaul delivered. Liberty! Liberty! Strike the Roman
hard! Strike harder!--Strike, ye Gauls!"

The song of the bards, the hope of victory with which they inspired their countrymen, caused
us to redouble our efforts. The remains of the Iron Legion, almost annihilated, recrossed the
river in disorder. At that moment we saw running in our direction a Roman cohort, panic-stricken
and in full rout. Our men had driven them back from the top of the hill, at the foot of which
was the tribe of Karnak. The cohort, thus taken between two enemies, was destroyed. Slaughter
was beginning to tire Mikael's arm and my own when I noticed a Roman warrior of medium height,
whose magnificent armor announced his lofty rank. He was on foot, and had lost his helmet in
the fight. His large bald forehead, his pale face and his terrible look gave him a terrifying
appearance. Armed with a sword, he was furiously beating his own soldiers, all unable to arrest
their flight. I called my brother's attention to him.

"Guilhern," said he, "if they have fought everywhere as we have here, we are victorious. That
soldier, by his gold and steel armor, must be a Roman general. Let us take him prisoner; he
will be a good hostage. Help me and we'll have him."

Mikael immediately hurled himself on the warrior of the golden armor, while the latter was
still trying to halt the fugitives. With a few bounds of my horse, I rejoined my brother. After
a brief struggle, Mikael threw the Roman. Wishing not to kill, but to take him prisoner, Mikael
held him under his knees, with his axe uplifted, to signify to the Roman that he would have
to give himself up. The Roman understood; no longer struggled to free himself; and raised to
heaven the one hand he had free that the gods might witness he yielded himself a prisoner.

"Off with him," said Mikael to me.

Mikael, who like myself, was stalwart and stout, while our prisoner was slim and not above
middle height, took the Roman in his arms and lifted him from the ground. I grasped him by
the collar of buffalo-hide which he had on over his breastplate, drew him towards me, pulled
him up, and threw him across my horse, in front of the saddle. Then, taking the reins in my
teeth so as to have one hand to hold the prisoner, and the other to threaten him with my axe,
I pressed the flanks of my horse, and set out in this fashion towards the reserve of our army,
both for the purpose of putting the prisoner in safe keeping, and to have my wounds dressed.
I had hardly started, when one of the horsemen of the Mahrek-Ha-Droad, happening that way in
his pursuit of the fleeing Romans, cried out, as he recognized the man I was carrying:

"IT IS CAESAR--STRIKE--KILL HIM!"

Thus I became aware that I had on my horse the direst of Gaul's foes. So far from entertaining
any thought of killing him, and seized with stupor, my axe slipped from my hand, and I leaned
back in order the better to contemplate that terrible Caesar whom I had in my power.

Unhappy me! Alas for Gaul! Caesar profited by my stupid astonishment, jumped down from my horse,
called to his aid a troop of Numidian horsemen who were riding in search of him, and when I
regained consciousness from my stupid amazement, the blunder was irreparable.[10] Caesar had
leaped upon one of the Numidian riders' horse, while the others surrounded me. Furious at having
allowed Caesar to escape, I now defended myself with frenzy. I received several fresh wounds
and saw my brother Mikael die at my side. That misfortune was only the signal for others. Victory,
so long hovering over our standards, went to the Romans. Caesar rallied his wavering legions;
a considerable re-enforcement of fresh troops came to his aid; and our whole army was driven
back in disorder upon the reserve, where were also our war-chariots, our wounded, our women
and our children. Carried by the press of retreating combatants, I arrived in the proximity
of the chariots, happy in the midst of defeat at having at least come near my mother and family,
and at being able to defend them--if indeed the strength were spared me, for my wounds were
weakening me more and more. Alas! The gods had condemned me to a horrible trial. I can now
repeat the words of Albinik and his wife, both killed in the attack on the Roman galleys, and
battling on the water as we did on the land for the freedom of our beloved country: "None ever
saw, nor will ever see the frightful scene that I witnessed."

Thrown back towards the chariots, still fighting, attacked at once by the Numidian cavalry,
by the legionaries and by the Cretan archers, we yielded ground step by step. Already we could
hear the bellowing of the oxen, the shrill sound of the numerous brass bells which trimmed
their yokes, and the barking of the war dogs, still chained about the cars. Husbanding my ebbing
strength, I no longer sought to fight, I strove only to reach the place where my family was
in danger. Suddenly my horse, which had already sustained several wounds, received on the flank
his death blow. The animal stumbled and rolled upon me. My leg and thigh, pierced with two
lance thrusts, were caught as in a vise between the ground and the dead weight of my fallen
steed. In vain I struggled to disengage myself. One of my comrades who, at the time of my fall,
was following me, ran against the fallen horse. Steed and rider tumbled over the obstacle,
and were instantly despatched by the blows of the legionaries. Our resistance became desperate.
Corpse upon corpse piled up, both on top of and around me. More and more enfeebled by the loss
of blood, overcome by the pains in my limbs, bruised under that heap of dead and dying, unable
to make a motion, all sense left me; my eyes closed. Recalled to myself a moment later by the
violent throbbing of my wounds, I opened my eyes again. The sight which met them at first made
me believe I was seized with one of those frightful nightmares from which escape is vain. It
was the horrible reality.

Twenty paces from me I saw the car in which my mother, Henory my wife, Martha the wife of Mikael,
their children, and several young women and girls of the family had taken refuge. Several men
of our kindred and tribe, who had run like myself to the cars, were defending them against
the Romans. Among the defenders I saw the two saldunes, fastened to each other by the iron
chain, the symbol of their pledge of brotherhood. Both were young, beautiful and valiant. Their
clothes were in tatters, their heads and chests naked and bloody. But their eyes flashed fire,
and a scornful smile played on their lips, as, armed only with their staffs, they fearlessly
fought the Roman legionaries sheathed in iron, and the Cretans clad in jackets and thigh-pieces
of leather. The large dogs of war, shortly unchained, leaped at the throats of their assailants,
often bearing them over backwards with their furious dashes. Their terrible jaws not being
able to pierce either helmet or breastplate, they devoured the faces of their victims, killing
without once letting go their grips. The Cretan archers, almost without defensive armor, were
snatched by the legs, arms, shoulders, anywhere. Each bite of these savage dogs carried away
a chunk of bleeding flesh.

Several steps from where I lay, I saw an archer of gigantic stature, calm in the midst of the
tumult, choose from his quiver his sharpest arrow, lay it on the string of his bow, pull it
with a sinewy arm, and take long aim at one of the two chained saldunes, who, dragged down
by the fall of his comrade, now dead by his side, could only fight on one knee. But so much
the more valiantly did he ply his iron-capped staff. He swung it before him with such tireless
dexterity that for some time none dared to brave its blows, for each stroke carried death.
The Cretan archer, waiting for the proper moment, was again aiming at the saldune, when old
Deber-Trud bounded forth. Held tight where I lay under the heap of dead which was crushing
me, unable to move without causing intense pain in my wounded thigh, I summoned all my remaining
strength to cry out:

"Hou! Hou! Deber-Trud--at the Roman."

The dog, increasingly excited by my voice, which he recognized, dashed with one bound upon
the Cretan, at the moment when the arrow hissed from the string, and buried itself, still quivering,
in the stalwart breast of the saldune. With this new wound his eyes closed, his heavy arms
let fall the staff, his other knee gave way, his body sank to the ground; but by a last effort,
the saldune rose on both knees, snatched the arrow from the wound, and threw it back at the
Roman legionaries, calling in a voice still strong, and with a smile of supreme contempt:

"For you, cowards, who shelter your fear and your bodies under plates of iron. The breastplate
of the Gaul is his naked bosom."[11]

And the saldune fell dead upon the body of his brother-in-arms.

Both of them were avenged by Deber-Trud. The terrible dog had hurled down and was holding under
his enormous paws the Cretan archer, who was uttering frightful cries. With one bite of his
fangs, as dangerous as those of a lion, the dog tore his victim's throat so deeply that two
jets of warm blood poured out on the archer's chest. Though still alive, the man could utter
no sound. Deber-Trud, seeing that his prey still lived, fell upon him, roaring furiously, swallowing
or throwing aside shreds of severed flesh. I heard the sides of the Cretan crack and grind
under the teeth of Deber-Trud, who dug and dug, burying his bloody muzzle up to the eyes in
the man's chest. Then a legionary ran up and transfixed Deber-Trud with one thrust of his lance.
The dog gave not a groan. He died like a good war-dog, his monstrous head plunged in the Roman's
entrails.[12]

After the death of the two saldunes, the defenders of the chariots fell one by one. My mother
Margarid, Martha, Henory, and the young girls of the family, with burning eyes and cheeks,
their hair flying, their clothes disordered from the struggle, their arms and bosoms half uncovered,
were running fearlessly from one end of the chariot to the other, encouraging the combatants
by voice and gesture, and casting at the Romans with no feeble or untrained hands short pikes,
knives, and spiked clubs. At last the critical moment came. All the men were killed, the chariot,
surrounded by bodies piled half way up its sides, was defended only by the women. There they
were, with my mother Margarid, five young women and six maidens, almost all of superb beauty,
heightened by the ardor of battle.

The Romans, sure of this prize of their obscene revels, and wishing to take it alive, consulted
a moment on a plan of attack. I understood not their words, but from their coarse laugh, and
the licentious looks which they threw upon the Gallic women, there could be no doubt as to
the fate which awaited them. I lay there, broken, pinned fast; breathless, full of despair,
horror, and impotent rage I lay there, seeing a few steps from me the chariot in which were
my mother, my wife, my children.--Oh, wrathful heavens!--like one unable to awake from a horrible
dream, I lay there condemned to see all, hear all, and yet to remain motionless.

An officer of savage and insolent mien advanced alone towards the chariot and addressed to
the women some words in the Latin tongue which the soldiers received with roars of revolting
laughter. My mother, calm, pale, and terrible, exhorted the young women around her to maintain
their self-control. Then the Roman, adding a word or two, closed with an obscene gesture. Margarid
happened at that moment to have in her hand a heavy axe. So straight at the officer's head
she hurled it, that he reeled and fell. His fall was the signal for the attack. The legionaries
pressed forward to the capture of the chariot. Then the women rushed to the scythes, which
on each side defended the cart, and plied them with such vigor and harmony, that the Romans,
seeing a great number of their men killed or disabled, conceived a wholesome fear for such
terrible arms, so intrepidly plied. They suspended the attack, and, applying their long lances
after the fashion of crow-bars, succeeded, without approaching too near, in shattering the
handles of the scythes. This safeguard demolished, a new attack commenced. The issue was not
doubtful. While the scythes were falling under the blows of the soldiers, my mother hurriedly
said a few words to Martha and Henory. The two, with a look of pride and determination on their
faces, ran towards the cover which sheltered the children. Margarid also spoke to the young
childless women, and they, as well as the young girls, took and piously kissed her hands.

At that moment, the last scythes fell. Margarid seized a sword in one hand and a white cloth
in the other. She stepped to the front of the chariot, waved the white cloth, and threw away
the sword, as if to announce to the enemy that all the women wished to give themselves up.
The soldiers, at first astonished at the proposed surrender, answered with laughs of ironical
consent. Margarid seemed to be awaiting a signal. Twice she impatiently cast her eyes toward
the shelter, where the two women had gone. Evidently, as the signal she seemed to wait for
was not given, she was trying to distract the enemy's attention, and again waved her cloth,
pointing alternately to the town of Vannes and to the sea.

The soldiers, unable to take in the meaning of these gestures, looked at one another questioningly.
Then Margarid, after another hasty glance at the redoubt, exchanged a few words with the girls
round about her, seized a dagger, and, in quick succession struck three of the maidens, who
had nobly bared their chaste bosoms to the knife. Meanwhile the other young women dispatched
one another with steady hands. They had just fallen when Martha reappeared from the enclosure
where the children had been hidden during the battle. Proud and serene, she held her two little
daughters in her arms. A spare wagon-pole stood in front of her, the upper extremity of which
was at a considerable elevation from the ground. She leaped on the edge of the car; a cord
was around her neck. She passed the end of the cord through the ring at the extremity of the
pole. Margarid steadied it in both hands. Martha leaped into the air with outspread arms, and
hung there, strangled. Her two little children, instead of falling to the ground, remained
suspended on either side of her breast, for she had passed the noose around their necks also.

All this occurred so rapidly, that the Romans, at first struck dumb with astonishment and fear,
had no time to prevent the heroic deaths. They had barely recovered from their amazement when
Margarid, seeing all her family either dying or dead at her feet, raised to heaven her blood-stained
knife, and exclaimed in a calm and steady voice:

"Our daughters shall not be outraged; our children shall not be enslaved; all of us, of the
family of Joel the brenn of the tribe of Karnak, dead, like our husbands and brothers, for
the liberty of Gaul, are on our way to rejoin them above. Perhaps, O Hesus, all this spilled
blood will appease you;" and with a hand which did not waver, she plunged the dagger into her
own heart.

All these terrible events which happened around the Chariot of Death I was compelled to behold,
as I lay nearby, pinned to the ground. My wife Henory not having emerged from the enclosure,
I concluded that she had put an end to herself there, first putting to death my little ones
Sylvest and Syomara. My brain began to reel, my eyes closed; I felt that I was dying, and thanked
Hesus for not leaving me behind alone when all my dear ones were to enter together upon the
other life in the unknown world.

But, no, it was here below, on earth, that I was to return to life--to face new torments after
those I had just undergone.

CHAPTER VIII.

AFTER THE BATTLE.

After I had beheld my mother and all the other women of the tribe die to escape the shame and
outrages of slavery, the blood which I had lost caused me to swoon away. A long time passed
in which I was bereft of reason. When my senses returned, I found myself lying on straw, along
with a great number of other men, in a vast shed. At my first motion I found myself chained
by the leg to a stake driven into the ground. I was half clad; they had left me my shirt and
breeches, in a secret pocket of which I had hidden the writings of my father and of my brother
Albinik, together with the little gold sickle, the gift of my sister Hena. A dressing had been
put on my wounds, which no longer occasioned me much pain. I experienced only a great weakness
and dizziness which made my last memories a confused mass. I looked about me. I was one of
perhaps fifty wounded prisoners, all chained to their litters. At the further end of the shed
were several armed men, who did not bear the appearance of regular Roman troops. They were
seated round a table, drinking and singing. Some among them, who carried short-handled scourges
twisted of several thongs and terminating in bits of lead, detached themselves from time to
time from the group, and walked here and there with the uncertain gait of drunken men, casting
jeering looks on the prisoners. Next to me lay an aged man with white hair and beard, very
pale and thin. A bloody band half hid his forehead. He was sitting up, his elbows on his knees,
and his face between his hands. Seeing him wounded and a prisoner, I concluded he was a Gaul.
I did not err.

"Good father," I said to him, laying my hand lightly upon the old man's arm, "where are we?"

Slowly raising his sad and mournful visage, the old prisoner answered compassionately:

"Those are the first words you have spoken for two days."

"For two days?" I repeated, greatly astonished. I was unable to believe so much time had passed
since the battle of Vannes. I sought to recall my wandering memory. "Is it possible? What,
I have been here two days?"

"Yes, and you have been unconscious, in a delirium. The physician who dressed your wounds made
you take several potions."

"Now I recall it confusedly. And also--a ride in a chariot?"

"Yes, to come here from the battle-ground. I was with you in the chariot, whither they carried
you wounded and dying."

"And here we are--?"

"At Vannes."

"Our army?"

"Destroyed."

"Our fleet?"

"Annihilated."[13]

"O, my brother, and your courageous wife Meroë, both dead also!" flashed through my mind. "And
Vannes, where we are," I added aloud to my companion, "Vannes is in the power of the Romans?"

"Even as the whole of Brittany, they say."

"And the Chief of the Hundred Valleys?"

"He has fled into the mountains of Ares with a handful of cavalry. The Romans are in pursuit
of him." Then raising his eyes to heaven, he continued, "May Hesus and Teutates protect that
last defender of the Gauls!"

I had put these questions while my thoughts were still disordered. But when I recalled the
struggle at the chariot of war, the death of my mother, my father, my brother Mikael, my brother's
wife and his two children, and finally, the almost certain death of my own wife with her son
and daughter--for up to the moment when I lost consciousness I had not seen Henory leave the
shelter behind the chariot--when I recalled all that, I heaved, in spite of myself, a great
sigh of despair at finding myself alone in the world. I buried my face in the straw to shut
out the light of day.

One of the tipsy keepers became irritated at hearing my moans, and showered several cruel blows
of the scourge, accompanied with oaths, upon my shoulders. Forgetting the pain in the shame
that I felt at the thought of me, the son of Joel, being struck with the lash, I leaped to
my feet notwithstanding my weakness, intending to throw myself upon the keeper. But my chain,
sharply tightened by the jerk, checked me, and made me trip and fall upon my knees. The keeper,
enabled by the length of his scourge to keep out of the prisoners' reach, thereupon redoubled
his blows, lashing me across the face, chest, and back. Other keepers ran up, fell upon me,
and slipped manacles of iron upon my wrists.

Oh, my son, my son! You, for whose eyes I write all this down, obedient to the wishes of my
father, never do yourself forget, and let also your sons preserve the memory of this outrage,
the first that our stock ever underwent. Live, that you may avenge the outrage in due time.
And if you cannot, let your sons wreak vengeance upon the Romans therefore.

With my feet chained and my hands in irons, unable to move, I did not wish to afford my tormentors
the spectacle of impotent rage. I closed my eyes and lay still, betraying neither anger nor
grief, while the keepers, provoked by my calmness, beat me furiously. Presently, however, a
strange voice having interposed and spoken a few angry words in the Latin tongue, the blows
ceased. I opened my eyes and three new personages stood before me. One of them was speaking
rapidly to the keepers, gesticulating angrily, and pointing at me from time to time. This man
was short and stout; he had a very red face, white hair and pointed grey beard. He wore a short
robe of brown wool, buck-skin stocks, and low leather boots; he was not dressed in the Roman
fashion. Of the two men who accompanied him, one, dressed in a long black robe, had a grave
and sinister mien. The other held a casket under his arm. While I was gazing at these persons,
my aged neighbor called my attention with a rapid glance to the fat little man with the red
face and the white hair, who was conversing with the keepers, and said to me with a look of
anger and disgust:

"The horse-dealer; the horse-dealer!"

"What are you talking about?" I answered him, unable to understand what he meant. "A horse-dealer?"

"That is what the Romans call the slave merchants."[14]

"How! They traffic in wounded men?" I asked the old man in surprise. "Are there men who buy
the dying?"

"Do you not know," he answered with a somber smile, "that after the battle of Vannes there
were more dead than living, and not an unwounded Gaul? Upon these wounded men, in default of
more able-bodied prey, the slave-dealers who follow the Roman army fell like so many ravens
upon corpses."

There was no more room for doubt. I realized that I was a slave. I had been bought. I would
be sold again. The "horse-dealer," having finished speaking to the keepers, approached the
old man, and said to him in Gallic, but with an accent that proved his foreign origin:

"My old Pierce-Skin--how has your neighbor come on? Has he at last recovered from his stupor?
Is he at last able to speak?"

"Ask him," snapped the old man, turning over on the straw. "He'll answer you himself."

The "horse-dealer" thereupon walked over to my side. He seemed no longer angry. His countenance,
naturally jovial, was beaming. Putting his two hands on his knees, he stooped down to me; grinned
at me; and spoke to me hurriedly, often putting questions which he answered himself, not seeming
to care whether I heard him or not.

