'Another rebuff,' thought Glossin; 'I must try him upon the other tack.' 'Right, sir; very
nobly said! I would have no more mercy on an ungrateful man than I would on a woodcock. And
now we talk of sport (this was a sort of diverting of the conversation which Glossin had learned
from his former patron), I see you often carry a gun, and I hope you will be soon able to take
the field again. I observe you confine yourself always to your own side of the Hazleshaws burn.
I hope, my dear sir, you will make no scruple of following your game to the Ellangowan bank;
I believe it is rather the best exposure of the two for woodcocks, although both are capital.'

As this offer only excited a cold and constrained bow, Glossin was obliged to remain silent,
and was presently afterwards somewhat relieved by the entrance of Colonel Mannering.

'I have detained you some time, I fear, sir,' said he, addressing Glossin; 'I wished to prevail
upon Miss Bertram to see you, as, in my opinion, her objections ought to give way to the necessity
of hearing in her own person what is stated to be of importance that she should know. But I
find that circumstances of recent occurrence, and not easily to be forgotten, have rendered
her so utterly repugnant to a personal interview with Mr. Glossin that it would be cruelty
to insist upon it; and she has deputed me to receive his commands, or proposal, or, in short,
whatever he may wish to say to her.'

'Hem, hem! I am sorry, sir--I am very sorry, Colonel Mannering, that Miss Bertram should suppose--that
any prejudice, in short--or idea that anything on my part--'

'Sir,' said the inflexible Colonel, 'where no accusation is made, excuses or explanations are
unnecessary. Have you any objection to communicate to me, as Miss Bertram's temporary guardian,
the circumstances which you conceive to interest her?'

'None, Colonel Mannering; she could not choose a more respectable friend, or one with whom
I, in particular, would more anxiously wish to communicate frankly.'

'Have the goodness to speak to the point, sir, if you please.'

'Why, sir, it is not so easy all at once--but Mr. Hazlewood need not leave the room,--I mean
so well to Miss Bertram that I could wish the whole world to hear my part of the conference.'

'My friend Mr. Charles Hazlewood will not probably be anxious, Mr. Glossin, to listen to what
cannot concern him. And now, when he has left us alone, let me pray you to be short and explicit
in what you have to say. I am a soldier, sir, somewhat impatient of forms and introductions.'
So saying, he drew himself up in his chair and waited for Mr. Glossin's communication.

'Be pleased to look at that letter,' said Glossin, putting Protocol's epistle into Mannering's
hand, as the shortest way of stating his business.

The Colonel read it and returned it, after pencilling the name of the writer in his memorandum-book.
'This, sir, does not seem to require much discussion. I will see that Miss Bertram's interest
is attended to.'

'But, sir,--but, Colonel Mannering,' added Glossin, 'there is another matter which no one can
explain but myself. This lady-- this Mrs. Margaret Bertram, to my certain knowledge, made a
general settlement of her affairs in Miss Lucy Bertram's favour while she lived with my old
friend Mr. Bertram at Ellangowan. The Dominie--that was the name by which my deceased friend
always called that very respectable man Mr. Sampson--he and I witnessed the deed. And she had
full power at that time to make such a settlement, for she was in fee of the estate of Singleside
even then, although it was life rented by an elder sister. It was a whimsical settlement of
old Singleside's, sir; he pitted the two cats his daughters against each other, ha, ha, ha!'

'Well, sir,' said Mannering, without the slightest smile of sympathy, 'but to the purpose.
You say that this lady had power to settle her estate on Miss Bertram, and that she did so?'

'Even so, Colonel,' replied Glossin. 'I think I should understand the law, I have followed
it for many years; and, though I have given it up to retire upon a handsome competence, I did
not throw away that knowledge which is pronounced better than house and land, and which I take
to be the knowledge of the law, since, as our common rhyme has it,

     'Tis most excellent,
     To win the land that's gone and spent.

No, no, I love the smack of the whip: I have a little, a very little law yet, at the service
of my friends.'

Glossin ran on in this manner, thinking he had made a favourable impression on Mannering. The
Colonel, indeed, reflected that this might be a most important crisis for Miss Bertram's interest,
and resolved that his strong inclination to throw Glossin out at window or at door should not
interfere with it. He put a strong curb on his temper, and resolved to listen with patience
at least, if without complacency. He therefore let Mr. Glossin get to the end of his self-congratulations,
and then asked him if he knew where the deed was.

'I know--that is, I think--I believe I can recover it. In such cases custodiers have sometimes
made a charge.'

'We won't differ as to that, sir,' said the Colonel, taking out his pocket-book.

'But, my dear sir, you take me so very short. I said SOME PERSONS MIGHT make such a claim,
I mean for payment of the expenses of the deed, trouble in the affair, etc. But I, for my own
part, only wish Miss Bertram and her friends to be satisfied that I am acting towards her with
honour. There's the paper, sir! It would have been a satisfaction to me to have delivered it
into Miss Bertram's own hands, and to have wished her joy of the prospects which it opens.
But, since her prejudices on the subject are invincible, it only remains for me to transmit
her my best wishes through you, Colonel Mannering, and to express that I shall willingly give
my testimony in support of that deed when I shall be called upon. I have the honour to wish
you a good morning, sir.'

This parting speech was so well got up, and had so much the tone of conscious integrity unjustly
suspected, that even Colonel Mannering was staggered in his bad opinion. He followed him two
or three steps, and took leave of him with more politeness (though still cold and formal) than
he had paid during his visit. Glossin left the house half pleased with the impression he had
made, half mortified by the stern caution and proud reluctance with which he had been received.
'Colonel Mannering might have had more politeness,' he said to himself. 'It is not every man
that can bring a good chance of 400 Pounds a year to a penniless girl. Singleside must be up
to 400 Pounds a year now; there's Reilageganbeg, Gillifidget, Loverless, Liealone, and the
Spinster's Knowe--good 400 Pounds a year. Some people might have made their own of it in my
place; and yet, to own the truth, after much consideration, I don't see how that is possible.'

Glossin was no sooner mounted and gone than the Colonel despatched a groom for Mr. Mac-Morlan,
and, putting the deed into his hand, requested to know if it was likely to be available to
his friend Lucy Bertram. Mac-Morlan perused it with eyes that sparkled with delight, snapped
his fingers repeatedly, and at length exclaimed, 'Available! it's as tight as a glove; naebody
could make better wark than Glossin, when he didna let down a steek on purpose. But (his countenance
falling) the auld b---, that I should say so, might alter at pleasure!'

'Ah! And how shall we know whether she has done so?'

'Somebody must attend on Miss Bertram's part when the repositories of the deceased are opened.'

'Can you go?' said the Colonel.

'I fear I cannot,' replied Mac-Morlan; 'I must attend a jury trial before our court.'

'Then I will go myself,' said the Colonel; 'I'll set out to- morrow. Sampson shall go with
me; he is witness to this settlement. But I shall want a legal adviser.'

'The gentleman that was lately sheriff of this county is high in reputation as a barrister;
I will give you a card of introduction to him.'

'What I like about you, Mr. Mac-Morlan,' said the Colonel, 'is that you always come straight
to the point. Let me have it instantly. Shall we tell Miss Lucy her chance of becoming an heiress?'

'Surely, because you must have some powers from her, which I will instantly draw out. Besides,
I will be caution for her prudence, and that she will consider it only in the light of a chance.'

Mac-Morlan judged well. It could not be discerned from Miss Bertram's manner that she founded
exulting hopes upon the prospect thus unexpectedly opening before her. She did, indeed, in
the course of the evening ask Mr. Mac-Morlan, as if by accident, what might be the annual income
of the Hazlewood property; but shall we therefore aver for certain that she was considering
whether an heiress of four hundred a year might be a suitable match for the young Laird?

CHAPTER XXXVI

     Give me a cup of sack, to make mine eyes look red. For I must
     speak in passion, and I will do it in King Cambyses' vein.

          --Henry IV, part I.

Mannering, with Sampson for his companion, lost no time in his journey to Edinburgh. They travelled
in the Colonel's post- chariot, who, knowing his companion's habits of abstraction, did not
choose to lose him out of his own sight, far less to trust him on horseback, where, in all
probability, a knavish stable-boy might with little address have contrived to mount him with
his face to the tail. Accordingly, with the aid of his valet, who attended on horseback, he
contrived to bring Mr. Sampson safe to an inn in Edinburgh--for hotels in those days there
were none-- without any other accident than arose from his straying twice upon the road. On
one occasion he was recovered by Barnes, who understood his humour, when, after engaging in
close colloquy with the schoolmaster of Moffat respecting a disputed quantity in Horace's 7th
Ode, Book II, the dispute led on to another controversy concerning the exact meaning of the
word malobathro in that lyric effusion. His second escapade was made for the purpose of visiting
the field of Rullion Green, which was dear to his Presbyterian predilections. Having got out
of the carriage for an instant, he saw the sepulchral monument of the slain at the distance
of about a mile, and was arrested by Barnes in his progress up the Pentland Hills, having on
both occasions forgot his friend, patron, and fellow-traveller as completely as if he had been
in the East Indies. On being reminded that Colonel Mannering was waiting for him, he uttered
his usual ejaculation of 'Prodigious! I was oblivious,' and then strode back to his post. Barnes
was surprised at his master's patience on both occasions, knowing by experience how little
he brooked neglect or delay; but the Dominie was in every respect a privileged person. His
patron and he were never for a moment in each other's way, and it seemed obvious that they
were formed to be companions through life. If Mannering wanted a particular book, the Dominie
could bring it; if he wished to have accounts summed up or checked, his assistance was equally
ready; if he desired to recall a particular passage in the classics, he could have recourse
to the Dominie as to a dictionary; and all the while this walking statue was neither presuming
when noticed nor sulky when left to himself. To a proud, shy, reserved man, and such in many
respects was Mannering, this sort of living catalogue and animated automaton had all the advantages
of a literary dumb-waiter.

As soon as they arrived in Edinburgh, and were established at the George Inn, near Bristo Port,
then kept by old Cockburn (I love to be particular), the Colonel desired the waiter to procure
him a guide to Mr. Pleydell's, the advocate, for whom he had a letter of introduction from
Mr. Mac-Morlan. He then commanded Barnes to have an eye to the Dominie, and walked forth with
a chairman, who was to usher him to the man of law.

The period was near the end of the American war. The desire of room, of air, and of decent
accommodation had not as yet made very much progress in the capital of Scotland. Some efforts
had been made on the south side of the town towards building houses WITHIN THEMSELVES, as they
are emphatically termed; and the New Town on the north, since so much extended, was then just
commenced. But the great bulk of the better classes, and particularly those connected with
the law, still lived in flats or dungeons of the Old Town. The manners also of some of the
veterans of the law had not admitted innovation. One or two eminent lawyers still saw their
clients in taverns, as was the general custom fifty years before; and although their habits
were already considered as old- fashioned by the younger barristers, yet the custom of mixing
wine and revelry with serious business was still maintained by those senior counsellors who
loved the old road, either because it was such or because they had got too well used to it
to travel any other. Among those praisers of the past time, who with ostentatious obstinacy
affected the manners of a former generation, was this same Paulus Pleydell, Esq., otherwise
a good scholar, an excellent lawyer, and a worthy man.

Under the guidance of his trusty attendant, Colonel Mannering, after threading a dark lane
or two, reached the High Street, then clanging with the voices of oyster-women and the bells
of pye-men; for it had, as his guide assured him, just' chappit eight upon the Tron.' It was
long since Mannering had been in the street of a crowded metropolis, which, with its noise
and clamour, its sounds of trade, of revelry, and of license, its variety of lights, and the
eternally changing bustle of its hundred groups, offers, by night especially, a spectacle which,
though composed of the most vulgar materials when they are separately considered, has, when
they are combined, a striking and powerful effect on the imagination. The extraordinary height
of the houses was marked by lights, which, glimmering irregularly along their front, ascended
so high among the attics that they seemed at length to twinkle in the middle sky. This coup
d'aeil, which still subsists in a certain degree, was then more imposing, owing to the uninterrupted
range of buildings on each side, which, broken only at the space where the North Bridge joins
the main street, formed a superb and uniform place, extending from the front of the Lucken-booths
to the head of the Canongate, and corresponding in breadth and length to the uncommon height
of the buildings on either side.

Mannering had not much time to look and to admire. His conductor hurried him across this striking
scene, and suddenly dived with him into a very steep paved lane. Turning to the right, they
entered a scale staircase, as it is called, the state of which, so far as it could be judged
of by one of his senses, annoyed Mannering's delicacy not a little. When they had ascended
cautiously to a considerable height, they heard a heavy rap at a door, still two stories above
them. The door opened, and immediately ensued the sharp and worrying bark of a dog, the squalling
of a woman, the screams of an assaulted cat, and the hoarse voice of a man, who cried in a
most imperative tone, 'Will ye, Mustard? Will ye? down, sir, down!'

'Lord preserve us!' said the female voice, 'an he had worried our cat, Mr. Pleydell would ne'er
hae forgi'en me!'

'Aweel, my doo, the cat's no a prin the waur. So he's no in, ye say?'

'Na, Mr. Pleydell's ne'er in the house on Saturday at e'en,' answered the female voice.

'And the morn's Sabbath too,' said the querist. 'I dinna ken what will be done.'

By this time Mannering appeared, and found a tall, strong countryman, clad in a coat of pepper-and-salt-coloured
mixture, with huge metal buttons, a glazed hat and boots, and a large horsewhip beneath his
arm, in colloquy with a slipshod damsel, who had in one hand the lock of the door, and in the
other a pail of whiting, or camstane, as it is called, mixed with water--a circumstance which
indicates Saturday night in Edinburgh.

'So Mr. Pleydell is not at home, my good girl?' said Mannering.

'Ay, sir, he's at hame, but he's no in the house; he's aye out on Saturday at e'en.'

'But, my good girl, I am a stranger, and my business express. Will you tell me where I can
find him?'

'His honour,' said the chairman, 'will be at Clerihugh's about this time. Hersell could hae
tell'd ye that, but she thought ye wanted to see his house.'

'Well, then, show me to this tavern. I suppose he will see me, as I come on business of some
consequence?'

'I dinna ken, sir,' said the girl; 'he disna like to be disturbed on Saturdays wi' business;
but he's aye civil to strangers.'

'I'll gang to the tavern too,' said our friend Dinmont, 'for I am a stranger also, and on business
e'en sic like.'

'Na,' said the handmaiden, 'an he see the gentleman, he'll see the simple body too; but, Lord's
sake, dinna say it was me sent ye there!'

'Atweel, I am a simple body, that's true, hinny, but I am no come to steal ony o' his skeel
for naething,' said the farmer in his honest pride, and strutted away downstairs, followed
by Mannering and the cadie. Mannering could not help admiring the determined stride with which
the stranger who preceded them divided the press, shouldering from him, by the mere weight
and impetus of his motion, both drunk and sober passengers. 'He'll be a Teviotdale tup tat
ane,' said the chairman, 'tat's for keeping ta crown o' ta causeway tat gate; he'll no gang
far or he'll get somebody to bell ta cat wi' him.'

His shrewd augury, however, was not fulfilled. Those who recoiled from the colossal weight
of Dinmont, on looking up at his size and strength, apparently judged him too heavy metal to
be rashly encountered, and suffered him to pursue his course unchallenged. Following in the
wake of this first-rate, Mannering proceeded till the farmer made a pause, and, looking back
to the chairman, said, 'I'm thinking this will be the close, friend.'

'Ay, ay,' replied Donald, 'tat's ta close.'

Dinmont descended confidently, then turned into a dark alley, then up a dark stair, and then
into an open door. While he was whistling shrilly for the waiter, as if he had been one of
his collie dogs, Mannering looked round him, and could hardly conceive how a gentleman of a
liberal profession and good society should choose such a scene for social indulgence. Besides
the miserable entrance, the house itself seemed paltry and half ruinous. The passage in which
they stood had a window to the close, which admitted a little light during the daytime, and
a villainous compound of smells at all times, but more especially towards evening. Corresponding
to this window was a borrowed light on the other side of the passage, looking into the kitchen,
which had no direct communication with the free air, but received in the daytime, at second
hand, such straggling and obscure light as found its way from the lane through the window opposite.
At present the interior of the kitchen was visible by its own huge fires--a sort of Pandemonium,
where men and women, half undressed, were busied in baking, broiling, roasting oysters, and
preparing devils on the gridiron; the mistress of the place, with her shoes slipshod, and her
hair straggling like that of Megaera from under a round-eared cap, toiling, scolding, receiving
orders, giving them, and obeying them all at once, seemed the presiding enchantress of that
gloomy and fiery region.

Loud and repeated bursts of laughter from different quarters of the house proved that her labours
were acceptable, and not unrewarded by a generous public. With some difficulty a waiter was
prevailed upon to show Colonel Mannering and Dinmont the room where their friend learned in
the law held his hebdomadal carousals. The scene which it exhibited, and particularly the attitude
of the counsellor himself, the principal figure therein, struck his two clients with amazement.

Mr. Pleydell was a lively, sharp-looking gentleman, with a professional shrewdness in his eye,
and, generally speaking, a professional formality in his manners. But this, like his three-
tailed wig and black coat, he could slip off on a Saturday evening, when surrounded by a party
of jolly companions, and disposed for what he called his altitudes. On the present occasion
the revel had lasted since four o'clock, and at length, under the direction of a venerable
compotator, who had shared the sports and festivity of three generations, the frolicsome company
had begun to practise the ancient and now forgotten pastime of HIGH JINKS. This game was played
in several different ways. Most frequently the dice were thrown by the company, and those upon
whom the lot fell were obliged to assume and maintain for a time a certain fictitious character,
or to repeat a certain number of fescennine verses in a particular order. If they departed
from the characters assigned, or if their memory proved treacherous in the repetition, they
incurred forfeits, which were either compounded for by swallowing an additional bumper or by
paying a small sum towards the reckoning. At this sport the jovial company were closely engaged
when Mannering entered the room.

Mr. Counsellor Pleydell, such as we have described him, was enthroned as a monarch in an elbow-chair
placed on the dining- table, his scratch wig on one side, his head crowned with a bottle-slider,
his eye leering with an expression betwixt fun and the effects of wine, while his court around
him resounded with such crambo scraps of verse as these:--

     Where is Gerunto now? and what's become of him?
     Gerunto's drowned because he could not swim, etc., etc.

Such, O Themis, were anciently the sports of thy Scottish children! Dinmont was first in the
room. He stood aghast a moment, and then exclaimed, 'It's him, sure enough. Deil o' the like
o' that ever I saw!'

At the sound of 'Mr. Dinmont and Colonel Mannering wanting to speak to you, sir,' Pleydell
turned his head, and blushed a little when he saw the very genteel figure of the English stranger.
He was, however, of the opinion of Falstaff, 'Out, ye villains, play out the play!' wisely
judging it the better way to appear totally unconcerned. 'Where be our guards?' exclaimed this
second Justinian; 'see ye not a stranger knight from foreign parts arrived at this our court
of Holyrood, with our bold yeoman Andrew Dinmont, who has succeeded to the keeping of our royal
flocks within the forest of Jedwood, where, thanks to our royal care in the administration
of justice, they feed as safe as if they were within the bounds of Fife? Where be our heralds,
our pursuivants, our Lyon, our Marchmount, our Carrick, and our Snowdown? Let the strangers
be placed at our board, and regaled as beseemeth their quality and this our high holiday; to-morrow
we will hear their tidings.'

'So please you, my liege, to-morrow's Sunday,' said one of the company.

'Sunday, is it? then we will give no offence to the assembly of the kirk; on Monday shall be
their audience.'

Mannering, who had stood at first uncertain whether to advance or retreat, now resolved to
enter for the moment into the whim of the scene, though internally fretting at Mac-Morlan for
sending him to consult with a crack-brained humourist. He therefore advanced with three profound
congees, and craved permission to lay his credentials at the feet of the Scottish monarch,
in order to be perused at his best leisure. The gravity with which he accommodated himself
to the humour of the moment, and the deep and humble inclination with which he at first declined,
and then accepted, a seat presented by the master of the ceremonies, procured him three rounds
of applause.

'Deil hae me, if they arena a' mad thegither!' said Dinmont, occupying with less ceremony a
seat at the bottom of the table; 'or else they hae taen Yule before it comes, and are gaun
a- guisarding.'

A large glass of claret was offered to Mannering, who drank it to the health of the reigning
prince. 'You are, I presume to guess,' said the monarch, 'that celebrated Sir Miles Mannering,
so renowned in the French wars, and may well pronounce to us if the wines of Gascony lose their
flavour in our more northern realm.'

Mannering, agreeably flattered by this allusion to the fame of his celebrated ancestor, replied
by professing himself only a distant relation of the preux chevalier, and added, 'that in his
opinion the wine was superlatively good.'

'It's ower cauld for my stamach,' said Dinmont, setting down the glass--empty however.

'We will correct that quality,' answered King Paulus, the first of the name; 'we have not forgotten
that the moist and humid air of our valley of Liddel inclines to stronger potations. Seneschal,
let our faithful yeoman have a cup of brandy; it will be more germain to the matter.'

'And now,' said Mannering, 'since we have unwarily intruded upon your majesty at a moment of
mirthful retirement, be pleased to say when you will indulge a stranger with an audience on
those affairs of weight which have brought him to your northern capital.'

The monarch opened Mac-Morlan's letter, and, running it hastily over, exclaimed with his natural
voice and manner, 'Lucy Bertram of Ellangowan, poor dear lassie!'

'A forfeit! a forfeit!' exclaimed a dozen voices; 'his majesty has forgot his kingly character.'

'Not a whit! not a whit!' replied the king; 'I'll be judged by this courteous knight. May not
a monarch love a maid of low degree? Is not King Cophetua and the Beggar-maid an adjudged case
in point?'

'Professional! professional! another forfeit,' exclaimed the tumultuary nobility.

'Had not our royal predecessors,' continued the monarch, exalting his sovereign voice to drown
these disaffected clamours,--'had they not their Jean Logies, their Bessie Carmichaels, their
Oliphants, their Sandilands, and their Weirs, and shall it be denied to us even to name a maiden
whom we delight to honour? Nay, then, sink state and perish sovereignty! for, like a second
Charles V, we will abdicate, and seek in the private shades of life those pleasures which are
denied to a throne.'

So saying, he flung away his crown, and sprung from his exalted station with more agility than
could have been expected from his age, ordered lights and a wash-hand basin and towel, with
a cup of green tea, into another room, and made a sign to Mannering to accompany him. In less
than two minutes he washed his face and hands, settled his wig in the glass, and, to Mannering's
great surprise, looked quite a different man from the childish Bacchanal he had seen a moment
before.

'There are folks,' he said, 'Mr. Mannering, before whom one should take care how they play
the fool, because they have either too much malice or too little wit, as the poet says. The
best compliment I can pay Colonel Mannering is to show I am not ashamed to expose myself before
him; and truly I think it is a compliment I have not spared to-night on your good-nature. But
what's that great strong fellow wanting?'

Dinmont, who had pushed after Mannering into the room, began with a scrape with his foot and
a scratch of his head in unison. 'I am Dandie Dinmont, sir, of the Charlie's Hope--the Liddesdale
lad; ye'll mind me? It was for me ye won yon grand plea.'

'What plea, you loggerhead?' said the lawyer. 'D'ye think I can remember all the fools that
come to plague me?'

'Lord, sir, it was the grand plea about the grazing o' the Langtae Head!' said the farmer.

'Well, curse thee, never mind; give me the memorial and come to me on Monday at ten,' replied
the learned counsel.

'But, sir, I haena got ony distinct memorial.'

'No memorial, man?' said Pleydell.

'Na, sir, nae memorial,' answered Dandie; 'for your honour said before, Mr. Pleydell, ye'll
mind, that ye liked best to hear us hill-folk tell our ain tale by word o' mouth.'

'Beshrew my tongue, that said so!' answered the counsellor; 'it will cost my ears a dinning.
Well, say in two words what you've got to say. You see the gentleman waits.'

'Ou, sir, if the gentleman likes he may play his ain spring first; it's a' ane to Dandie.'

'Now, you looby,' said the lawyer, 'cannot you conceive that your business can be nothing to
Colonel Mannering, but that he may not choose to have these great ears of thine regaled with
his matters?'

'Aweel, sir, just as you and he like, so ye see to my business,' said Dandie, not a whit disconcerted
by the roughness of this reception. 'We're at the auld wark o' the marches again, Jock o' Dawston
Cleugh and me. Ye see we march on the tap o' Touthop-rigg after we pass the Pomoragrains; for
the Pomoragrains, and Slackenspool, and Bloodylaws, they come in there, and they belang to
the Peel; but after ye pass Pomoragrains at a muckle great saucer-headed cutlugged stane that
they ca' Charlie's Chuckie, there Dawston Cleugh and Charlie's Hope they march. Now, I say
the march rins on the tap o' the hill where the wind and water shears; but Jock o' Dawston
Cleugh again, he contravenes that, and says that it bauds down by the auld drove-road that
gaes awa by the Knot o' the Gate ower to Keeldar Ward; and that makes an unco difference.'

'And what difference does it make, friend?' said Pleydell. 'How many sheep will it feed?'

'Ou, no mony,' said Dandie, scratching his head; 'it's lying high and exposed: it may feed
a hog, or aiblins twa in a good year.'

'And for this grazing, which may be worth about five shillings a year, you are willing to throw
away a hundred pound or two?'

'Na, sir, it's no for the value of the grass,' replied Dinmont; 'it's for justice.'

'My good friend,' said Pleydell, 'justice, like charity, should begin at home. Do you justice
to your wife and family, and think no more about the matter.'

Dinmont still lingered, twisting his hat in his hand. 'It's no for that, sir; but I would like
ill to be bragged wi' him; he threeps he'll bring a score o' witnesses and mair, and I'm sure
there's as mony will swear for me as for him, folk that lived a' their days upon the Charlie's
Hope, and wadna like to see the land lose its right.'

'Zounds, man, if it be a point of honour,' said the lawyer, 'why don't your landlords take it up?'

'I dinna ken, sir (scratching his head again); there's been nae election-dusts lately, and
the lairds are unco neighbourly, and Jock and me canna get them to yoke thegither about it
a' that we can say; but if ye thought we might keep up the rent--'

'No! no! that will never do,' said Pleydell. 'Confound you, why don't you take good cudgels
and settle it?'

'Odd, sir,' answered the farmer, 'we tried that three times already, that's twice on the land
and ance at Lockerby Fair. But I dinna ken; we're baith gey good at single-stick, and it couldna
weel be judged.'

'Then take broadswords, and be d--d to you, as your fathers did before you,' said the counsel
learned in the law.

'Aweel, sir, if ye think it wadna be again the law, it's a' ane to Dandie.'

'Hold! hold!' exclaimed Pleydell, 'we shall have another Lord Soulis' mistake. Pr'ythee, man,
comprehend me; I wish you to consider how very trifling and foolish a lawsuit you wish to engage
in.'

'Ay, sir?' said Dandie, in a disappointed tone. 'So ye winna take on wi' me, I'm doubting?'

'Me! not I. Go home, go home, take a pint and agree.' Dandie looked but half contented, and
still remained stationary. 'Anything more, my friend?'

'Only, sir, about the succession of this leddy that's dead, auld Miss Margaret Bertram o' Singleside.'

'Ay, what about her?' said the counsellor, rather surprised.

'Ou, we have nae connexion at a' wi' the Bertrams,' said Dandie; 'they were grand folk by the
like o' us; but Jean Liltup, that was auld Singleside's housekeeper, and the mother of these
twa young ladies that are gane--the last o' them's dead at a ripe age, I trow--Jean Liltup
came out o' Liddel water, and she was as near our connexion as second cousin to my mother's
half-sister. She drew up wi' Singleside, nae doubt, when she was his housekeeper, and it was
a sair vex and grief to a' her kith and kin. But he acknowledged a marriage, and satisfied
the kirk; and now I wad ken frae you if we hae not some claim by law?'

'Not the shadow of a claim.'

'Aweel, we're nae puirer,' said Dandie; 'but she may hae thought on us if she was minded to
make a testament. Weel, sir, I've said my say; I'se e'en wish you good-night, and--' putting
his hand in his pocket.

'No, no, my friend; I never take fees on Saturday nights, or without a memorial. Away with
you, Dandie.' And Dandie made his reverence and departed accordingly.

CHAPTER XXXVII

     But this poor farce has neither truth nor art
     To please the fancy or to touch the heart
     Dark but not awful dismal but yet mean,
     With anxious bustle moves the cumbrous scene,
     Presents no objects tender or profound,
     But spreads its cold unmeaning gloom around

          Parish Register

'Your majesty,' said Mannering, laughing, 'has solemnised your abdication by an act of mercy
and charity. That fellow will scarce think of going to law.'

'O, you are quite wrong,' said the experienced lawyer. 'The only difference is, I have lost
my client and my fee. He'll never rest till he finds somebody to encourage him to commit the
folly he has predetermined. No! no! I have only shown you another weakness of my character:
I always speak truth of a Saturday night.'

'And sometimes through the week, I should think,' said Mannering, continuing the same tone.

'Why, yes; as far as my vocation will permit. I am, as Hamlet says, indifferent honest, when
my clients and their solicitors do not make me the medium of conveying their double-distilled
lies to the bench. But oportet vivere! it is a sad thing. And now to our business. I am glad
my old friend Mac-Morlan has sent you to me; he is an active, honest, and intelligent man,
long sheriff- substitute of the county of--under me, and still holds the office. He knows I
have a regard for that unfortunate family of Ellangowan, and for poor Lucy. I have not seen
her since she was twelve years old, and she was then a sweet pretty girl, under the management
of a very silly father. But my interest in her is of an early date. I was called upon, Mr.
Mannering, being then sheriff of that county, to investigate the particulars of a murder which
had been committed near Ellangowan the day on which this poor child was born; and which, by
a strange combination that I was unhappily not able to trace, involved the death or abstraction
of her only brother, a boy of about five years old. No, Colonel, I shall never forget the misery
of the house of Ellangowan that morning! the father half-distracted--the mother dead in premature
travail--the helpless infant, with scarce any one to attend it, coming wawling and crying into
this miserable world at such a moment of unutterable misery. We lawyers are not of iron, sir,
or of brass, any more than you soldiers are of steel. We are conversant with the crimes and
distresses of civil society, as you are with those that occur in a state of war, and to do
our duty in either case a little apathy is perhaps necessary. But the devil take a soldier
whose heart can be as hard as his sword, and his dam catch the lawyer who bronzes his bosom
instead of his forehead! But come, I am losing my Saturday at e'en. Will you have the kindness
to trust me with these papers which relate to Miss Bertram's business? and stay--to-morrow
you'll take a bachelor's dinner with an old lawyer,--I insist upon it--at three precisely,
and come an hour sooner. The old lady is to be buried on Monday; it is the orphan's cause,
and we'll borrow an hour from the Sunday to talk over this business, although I fear nothing
can be done if she has altered her settlement, unless perhaps it occurs within the sixty days,
and then, if Miss Bertram can show that she possesses the character of heir-at-law, why--But,
hark! my lieges are impatient of their interregnum. I do not invite you to rejoin us, Colonel;
it would be a trespass on your complaisance, unless you had begun the day with us, and gradually
glided on from wisdom to mirth, and from mirth to-to-to--extravagance. Good-night. Harry, go
home with Mr. Mannering to his lodging. Colonel, I expect you at a little past two to-morrow.'

The Colonel returned to his inn, equally surprised at the childish frolics in which he had
found his learned counsellor engaged, at the candour and sound sense which he had in a moment
summoned up to meet the exigencies of his profession, and at the tone of feeling which he displayed
when he spoke of the friendless orphan.

In the morning, while the Colonel and his most quiet and silent of all retainers, Dominie Sampson,
were finishing the breakfast which Barnes had made and poured out, after the Dominie had scalded
himself in the attempt, Mr. Pleydell was suddenly ushered in. A nicely dressed bob-wig, upon
every hair of which a zealous and careful barber had bestowed its proper allowance of powder;
a well-brushed black suit, with very clean shoes and gold buckles and stock-buckle; a manner
rather reserved and formal than intrusive, but withal showing only the formality of manner,
by no means that of awkwardness; a countenance, the expressive and somewhat comic features
of which were in complete repose--all showed a being perfectly different from the choice spirit
of the evening before. A glance of shrewd and piercing fire in his eye was the only marked
expression which recalled the man of 'Saturday at e'en.'

'I am come,' said he, with a very polite address, 'to use my regal authority in your behalf
in spirituals as well as temporals; can I accompany you to the Presbyterian kirk, or Episcopal
meeting- house? Tros Tyriusve, a lawyer, you know, is of both religions, or rather I should
say of both forms;--or can I assist in passing the fore-noon otherwise? 'I am delighted to
put myself under your pilotage. I should wish much to hear some of your Scottish preachers
whose talents have done such honour to your country--your Blair, your Robertson, or your Henry;
and I embrace your kind offer with all my heart. Only,' drawing the lawyer a little aside,
and turning his eye towards Sampson, 'my worthy friend there in the reverie is a little helpless
and abstracted, and my servant, Barnes, who is his pilot in ordinary, cannot well assist him
here, especially as he has expressed his determination of going to some of your darker and
more remote places of worship.'

The lawyer's eye glanced at Dominie Sampson. 'A curiosity worth preserving; and I'll find you
a fit custodier. Here you, sir (to the waiter), go to Luckie Finlayson's in the Cowgate for
Miles Macfin the cadie, he'll be there about this time, and tell him I wish to speak to him.'

The person wanted soon arrived. 'I will commit your friend to this man's charge,' said Pleydell;
'he'll attend him, or conduct him, wherever he chooses to go, with a happy indifference as
to kirk or market, meeting or court of justice, or any other place whatever; and bring him
safe home at whatever hour you appoint; so that Mr. Barnes there may be left to the freedom
of his own will.'

This was easily arranged, and the Colonel committed the Dominie to the charge of this man while
they should remain in Edinburgh.

'And now, sir, if you please, we shall go to the Grey-friars church, to hear our historian
of Scotland, of the Continent, and of America.'

They were disappointed: he did not preach that morning. 'Never mind,' said the Counsellor,
'have a moment's patience and we shall do very well.'

The colleague of Dr. Robertson ascended the pulpit. [Footnote: This was the celebrated Doctor
Erskine, a distinguished clergyman, and a most excellent man.] His external appearance was
not prepossessing. A remarkably fair complexion, strangely contrasted with a black wig without
a grain of powder; a narrow chest and a stooping posture; hands which, placed like props on
either side of the pulpit, seemed necessary rather to support the person than to assist the
gesticulation of the preacher; no gown, not even that of Geneva, a tumbled band, and a gesture
which seemed scarce voluntary, were the first circumstances which struck a stranger. 'The preacher
seems a very ungainly person,' whispered Mannering to his new friend.

'Never fear, he's the son of an excellent Scottish lawyer; [Footnote: The father of Doctor
Erskine was an eminent lawyer, and his Institutes of the Law of Scotland are to this day the
text- book of students of that science.] he'll show blood, I'll warrant him.'

The learned Counsellor predicted truly. A lecture was delivered, fraught with new, striking,
and entertaining views of Scripture history, a sermon in which the Calvinism of the Kirk of
Scotland was ably supported, yet made the basis of a sound system of practical morals, which
should neither shelter the sinner under the cloak of speculative faith or of peculiarity of
opinion, nor leave him loose to the waves of unbelief and schism. Something there was of an
antiquated turn of argument and metaphor, but it only served to give zest and peculiarity to
the style of elocution. The sermon was not read: a scrap of paper containing the heads of the
discourse was occasionally referred to, and the enunciation, which at first seemed imperfect
and embarrassed, became, as the preacher warmed in his progress, animated and distinct; and
although the discourse could not be quoted as a correct specimen of pulpit eloquence, yet Mannering
had seldom heard so much learning, metaphysical acuteness, and energy of argument brought into
the service of Christianity.

'Such,' he said, going out of the church, 'must have been the preachers to whose unfearing
minds, and acute though sometimes rudely exercised talents, we owe the Reformation.'

'And yet that reverend gentleman,' said Pleydell, 'whom I love for his father's sake and his
own, has nothing of the sour or pharisaical pride which has been imputed to some of the early
fathers of the Calvinistic Kirk of Scotland. His colleague and he differ, and head different
parties in the kirk, about particular points of church discipline; but without for a moment
losing personal regard or respect for each other, or suffering malignity to interfere in an
opposition steady, constant, and apparently conscientious on both sides.'

'And you, Mr. Pleydell, what do you think of their points of difference?'

'Why, I hope, Colonel, a plain man may go to heaven without thinking about them at all; besides,
inter nos, I am a member of the suffering and Episcopal Church of Scotland--the shadow of a
shade now, and fortunately so; but I love to pray where my fathers prayed before me, without
thinking worse of the Presbyterian forms because they do not affect me with the same associations.'
And with this remark they parted until dinner-time.

From the awkward access to the lawyer's mansion, Mannering was induced to form very moderate
expectations of the entertainment which he was to receive. The approach looked even more dismal
by daylight than on the preceding evening. The houses on each side of the lane were so close
that the neighbours might have shaken hands with each other from the different sides, and occasionally
the space between was traversed by wooden galleries, and thus entirely closed up. The stair,
the scale-stair, was not well cleaned; and on entering the house Mannering was struck with
the narrowness and meanness of the wainscotted passage. But the library, into which he was
shown by an elderly, respectable-looking man-servant, was a complete contrast to these unpromising
appearances. It was a well- proportioned room, hung with a portrait or two of Scottish characters
of eminence, by Jamieson, the Caledonian Vandyke, and surrounded with books, the best editions
of the best authors, and in particular an admirable collection of classics.

'These,' said Pleydell, 'are my tools of trade.

When Mr. Pleydell had sufficiently enjoyed the surprise of his guest, he called his attention
to Miss Bertram's affairs. 'I was in hopes,' he said, 'though but faint, to have discovered
some means of ascertaining her indefeasible right to this property of Singleside; but my researches
have been in vain. The old lady was certainly absolute fiar, and might dispose of it in full
right of property. All that we have to hope is, that the devil may not have tempted her to
alter this very proper settlement. You must attend the old girl's funeral to-morrow, to which
you will receive an invitation, for I have acquainted her agent with your being here on Miss
Bertram's part; and I will meet you afterwards at the house she inhabited, and be present to
see fair play at the opening of the settlement. The old cat had a little girl, the orphan of
some relation, who lived with her as a kind of slavish companion. I hope she has had the conscience
to make her independent, in consideration of the peine forte et dure to which she subjected
her during her lifetime.'

Three gentlemen now appeared, and were introduced to the stranger. They were men of good sense,
gaiety, and general information, so that the day passed very pleasantly over; and Colonel Mannering
assisted, about eight o'clock at night, in discussing the landlord's bottle, which was, of
course, a magnum. Upon his return to the inn he found a card inviting him to the funeral of
Miss Margaret Bertram, late of Singleside, which was to proceed from her own house to the place
of interment in the Greyfriars churchyard at one o'clock afternoon.

At the appointed hour Mannering went to a small house in the suburbs to the southward of the
city, where he found the place of mourning indicated, as usual in Scotland, by two rueful figures
with long black cloaks, white crapes and hat-bands, holding in their hands poles, adorned with
melancholy streamers of the same description. By two other mutes, who, from their visages,
seemed suffering under the pressure of some strange calamity, he was ushered into the dining-parlour
of the defunct, where the company were assembled for the funeral.

In Scotland the custom, now disused in England, of inviting the relations of the deceased to
the interment is universally retained. On many occasions this has a singular and striking effect,
but it degenerates into mere empty form and grimace in cases where the defunct has had the
misfortune to live unbeloved and die unlamented. The English service for the dead, one of the
most beautiful and impressive parts of the ritual of the church, would have in such cases the
effect of fixing the attention, and uniting the thoughts and feelings of the audience present
in an exercise of devotion so peculiarly adapted to such an occasion. But according to the
Scottish custom, if there be not real feeling among the assistants, there is nothing to supply
the deficiency, and exalt or rouse the attention; so that a sense of tedious form, and almost
hypocritical restraint, is too apt to pervade the company assembled for the mournful solemnity.
Mrs. Margaret Bertram was unluckily one of those whose good qualities had attached no general
friendship. She had no near relations who might have mourned from natural affection, and therefore
her funeral exhibited merely the exterior trappings of sorrow.

Mannering, therefore, stood among this lugubrious company of cousins in the third, fourth,
fifth, and sixth degree, composing his countenance to the decent solemnity of all who were
around him, and looking as much concerned on Mrs. Margaret Bertram's account as if the deceased
lady of Singleside had been his own sister or mother. After a deep and awful pause, the company
began to talk aside, under their breaths, however, and as if in the chamber of a dying person.

'Our poor friend,' said one grave gentleman, scarcely opening his mouth, for fear of deranging
the necessary solemnity of his features, and sliding his whisper from between his lips, which
were as little unclosed as possible--'our poor friend has died well to pass in the world.'

'Nae doubt,' answered the person addressed, with half-closed eyes; 'poor Mrs. Margaret was
aye careful of the gear.'

'Any news to-day, Colonel Mannering?' said one of the gentlemen whom he had dined with the
day before, but in a tone which might, for its impressive gravity, have communicated the death
of his whole generation.

'Nothing particular, I believe, sir,' said Mannering, in the cadence which was, he observed,
appropriated to the house of mourning.

'I understand,' continued the first speaker, emphatically, and with the air of one who is well
informed--'I understand there IS a settlement.'

'And what does little Jenny Gibson get?'

'A hundred, and the auld repeater.'

'That's but sma' gear, puir thing; she had a sair time o't with the auld leddy. But it's ill
waiting for dead folk's shoon.'

'I am afraid,' said the politician, who was close by Mannering, 'we have not done with your
old friend Tippoo Sahib yet, I doubt he'll give the Company more plague; and I am told, but
you'll know for certain, that East India Stock is not rising.'

'I trust it will, sir, soon.'

'Mrs. Margaret,' said another person, mingling in the conversation, 'had some India bonds.
I know that, for I drew the interest for her; it would be desirable now for the trustees and
legatees to have the Colonel's advice about the time and mode of converting them into money.
For my part I think--but there's Mr. Mortcloke to tell us they are gaun to lift.'

Mr. Mortcloke the undertaker did accordingly, with a visage of professional length and most
grievous solemnity, distribute among the pall-bearers little cards, assigning their respective
situations in attendance upon the coffin. As this precedence is supposed to be regulated by
propinquity to the defunct, the undertaker, however skilful a master of these lugubrious ceremonies,
did not escape giving some offence. To be related to Mrs. Bertram was to be of kin to the lands
of Singleside, and was a propinquity of which each relative present at that moment was particularly
jealous. Some murmurs there were on the occasion, and our friend Dinmont gave more open offence,
being unable either to repress his discontent or to utter it in the key properly modulated
to the solemnity. 'I think ye might hae at least gi'en me a leg o' her to carry,' he exclaimed,
in a voice considerably louder than propriety admitted. 'God! an it hadna been for the rigs
o' land, I would hae gotten her a' to carry mysell, for as mony gentles as are here.'

A score of frowning and reproving brows were bent upon the unappalled yeoman, who, having given
vent to his displeasure, stalked sturdily downstairs with the rest of the company, totally
disregarding the censures of those whom his remarks had scandalised.

And then the funeral pomp set forth; saulies with their batons and gumphions of tarnished white
crape, in honour of the well- preserved maiden fame of Mrs. Margaret Bertram. Six starved horses,
themselves the very emblems of mortality, well cloaked and plumed, lugging along the hearse
with its dismal emblazonry, crept in slow state towards the place of interment, preceded by
Jamie Duff, an idiot, who, with weepers and cravat made of white paper, attended on every funeral,
and followed by six mourning coaches, filled with the company. Many of these now gave more
free loose to their tongues, and discussed with unrestrained earnestness the amount of the
succession, and the probability of its destination. The principal expectants, however, kept
a prudent silence, indeed ashamed to express hopes which might prove fallacious; and the agent
or man of business, who alone knew exactly how matters stood, maintained a countenance of mysterious
importance, as if determined to preserve the full interest of anxiety and suspense.

At length they arrived at the churchyard gates, and from thence, amid the gaping of two or
three dozen of idle women with infants in their arms, and accompanied by some twenty children,
who ran gambolling and screaming alongside of the sable procession, they finally arrived at
the burial-place of the Singleside family. This was a square enclosure in the Greyfriars churchyard,
guarded on one side by a veteran angel without a nose, and having only one wing, who had the
merit of having maintained his post for a century, while his comrade cherub, who had stood
sentinel on the corresponding pedestal, lay a broken trunk among the hemlock, burdock, and
nettles which grew in gigantic luxuriance around the walls of the mausoleum. A moss-grown and
broken inscription informed the reader that in the year 1650 Captain Andrew Bertram, first
of Singleside, descended of the very ancient and honourable house of Ellangowan, had caused
this monument to be erected for himself and his descendants. A reasonable number of scythes
and hour-glasses, and death's heads and cross-bones, garnished the following sprig of sepulchral
poetry to the memory of the founder of the mausoleum:--

     Nathaniel's heart, Bezaleel's hand
        If ever any had,
     These boldly do I say had he,
        Who lieth in this bed.

Here, then, amid the deep black fat loam into which her ancestors were now resolved, they deposited
the body of Mrs. Margaret Bertram; and, like soldiers returning from a military funeral, the
nearest relations who might be interested in the settlements of the lady urged the dog-cattle
of the hackney coaches to all the speed of which they were capable, in order to put an end
to farther suspense on that interesting topic.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

     Die and endow a college or a cat.

          POPE.

There is a fable told by Lucian, that while a troop of monkeys, well drilled by an intelligent
manager, were performing a tragedy with great applause, the decorum of the whole scene was
at once destroyed, and the natural passions of the actors called forth into very indecent and
active emulation, by a wag who threw a handful of nuts upon the stage. In like manner, the
approaching crisis stirred up among the expectants feelings of a nature very different from
those of which, under the superintendence of Mr. Mortcloke, they had but now been endeavouring
to imitate the expression. Those eyes which were lately devoutly cast up to heaven, or with
greater humility bent solemnly upon earth, were now sharply and alertly darting their glances
through shuttles, and trunks, and drawers, and cabinets, and all the odd corners of an old
maiden lady's repositories. Nor was their search without interest, though they did not find
the will of which they were in quest.

Here was a promissory note for 20 Pounds by the minister of the nonjuring chapel, interest
marked as paid to Martinmas last, carefully folded up in a new set of words to the old tune
of 'Over the Water to Charlie'; there was a curious love correspondence between the deceased
and a certain Lieutenant O'Kean of a marching regiment of foot; and tied up with the letters
was a document which at once explained to the relatives why a connexion that boded them little
good had been suddenly broken off, being the Lieutenant's bond for two hundred pounds, upon
which NO interest whatever appeared to have been paid. Other bills and bonds to a larger amount,
and signed by better names (I mean commercially) than those of the worthy divine and gallant
soldier, also occurred in the course of their researches, besides a hoard of coins of every
size and denomination, and scraps of broken gold and silver, old earrings, hinges of cracked,
snuff-boxes, mountings of spectacles, etc. etc. etc. Still no will made its appearance, and
Colonel Mannering began full well to hope that the settlement which he had obtained from Glossin
contained the ultimate arrangement of the old lady's affairs. But his friend Pleydell, who
now came into the room, cautioned him against entertaining this belief.

'I am well acquainted with the gentleman,' he said, 'who is conducting the search, and I guess
from his manner that he knows something more of the matter than any of us.'

Meantime, while the search proceeds, let us take a brief glance at one or two of the company
who seem most interested.

Of Dinmont, who, with his large hunting-whip under his arm, stood poking his great round face
over the shoulder of the homme d'affaires, it is unnecessary to say anything. That thin-looking
oldish person, in a most correct and gentleman-like suit of mourning, is Mac-Casquil, formerly
of Drumquag, who was ruined by having a legacy bequeathed to him of two shares in the Ayr bank.
His hopes on the present occasion are founded on a very distant relationship, upon his sitting
in the same pew with the deceased every Sunday, and upon his playing at cribbage with her regularly
on the Saturday evenings, taking great care never to come off a winner. That other coarse-looking
man, wearing his own greasy hair tied in a leathern cue more greasy still, is a tobacconist,
a relation of Mrs. Bertram's mother, who, having a good stock in trade when the colonial war
broke out, trebled the price of his commodity to all the world, Mrs. Bertram alone excepted,
whose tortoise-shell snuff-box was weekly filled with the best rappee at the old prices, because
the maid brought it to the shop with Mrs. Bertram's respects to her cousin Mr. Quid. That young
fellow, who has not had the decency to put off his boots and buckskins, might have stood as
forward as most of them in the graces of the old lady, who loved to look upon a comely young
man; but it is thought he has forfeited the moment of fortune by sometimes neglecting her tea-table
when solemnly invited, sometimes appearing there when he had been dining with blyther company,
twice treading upon her cat's tail, and once affronting her parrot.

To Mannering the most interesting of the group was the poor girl who had been a sort of humble
companion of the deceased, as a subject upon whom she could at all times expectorate her bad
humour. She was for form's sake dragged into the room by the deceased's favourite female attendant,
where, shrinking into a>corner as soon as possible, she saw with wonder and affright the intrusive
researches of the strangers amongst those recesses to which from childhood she had looked with
awful veneration. This girl was regarded with an unfavourable eye by all the competitors, honest
Dinmont only excepted; the rest conceived they should find in her a formidable competitor,
whose claims might at least encumber and diminish their chance of succession. Yet she was the
only person present who seemed really to feel sorrow for the deceased. Mrs. Bertram had been
her protectress, although from selfish motives, and her capricious tyranny was forgotten at
the moment, while the tears followed each other fast down the cheeks of her frightened and
friendless dependent. 'There's ower muckle saut water there, Drumquag,' said the tobacconist
to the ex- proprietor, 'to bode ither folk muckle gude. Folk seldom greet that gate but they
ken what it's for.' Mr. Mac-Casquil only replied with a nod, feeling the propriety of asserting
his superior gentry in presence of Mr. Pleydell and Colonel Mannering.

'Very queer if there suld be nae will after a', friend,' said Dinmont, who began to grow impatient,
to the man of business.

'A moment's patience, if you please. She was a good and prudent woman, Mrs. Margaret Bertram--a
good and prudent and well-judging woman, and knew how to choose friends and depositaries; she
may have put her last will and testament, or rather her mortis causa settlement, as it relates
to heritage, into the hands of some safe friend.'

'I'll bet a rump and dozen,' said Pleydell, whispering to the Colonel, 'he has got it in his
own pocket.' Then addressing the man of law, 'Come, sir, we'll cut this short, if you please:
here is a settlement of the estate of Singleside, executed several years ago, in favour of
Miss Lucy Bertram of Ellangowan.' The company stared fearfully wild. 'You, I presume, Mr. Protocol,
can inform us if there is a later deed?'

'Please to favour me, Mr. Pleydell'; and so saying, he took the deed out of the learned counsel's
hand, and glanced his eye over the contents.

'Too cool,' said Pleydell, 'too cool by half; he has another deed in his pocket still.'

'Why does he not show it then, and be d-d to him!' said the military gentleman, whose patience
began to wax threadbare.

'Why, how should I know?' answered the barrister; 'why does a cat not kill a mouse when she
takes him? The consciousness of power and the love of teasing, I suppose. Well, Mr. Protocol,
what say you to that deed?'

'Why, Mr. Pleydell, the deed is a well-drawn deed, properly authenticated and tested in forms
of the statute.'

'But recalled or superseded by another of posterior date in your possession, eh?' said the
Counsellor.

'Something of the sort, I confess, Mr. Pleydell,' rejoined the man of business, producing a
bundle tied with tape, and sealed at each fold and ligation with black wax. 'That deed, Mr.
Pleydell, which you produce and found upon, is dated 1st June 17-; but this (breaking the seals
and unfolding the document slowly) is dated the 20th--no, I see it is the 21st--of April of
this present year, being ten years posterior.'

'Marry, hang her, brock!' said the Counsellor, borrowing an exclamation from Sir Toby Belch;
'just the month in which Ellangowan's distresses became generally public. But let us hear what
she has done.'

Mr. Protocol accordingly, having required silence, began to read the settlement aloud in a
slow, steady, business-like tone. The group around, in whose eyes hope alternately awakened
and faded, and who were straining their apprehensions to get at the drift of the testator's
meaning through the mist of technical language in which the conveyance had involved it, might
have made a study for Hogarth.

The deed was of an unexpected nature. It set forth with conveying and disponing all and whole
the estate and lands of Singleside and others, with the lands of Loverless, Liealone, Spinster's
Knowe, and heaven knows what beside, 'to and in favours of (here the reader softened his voice
to a gentle and modest piano) Peter Protocol, clerk to the signet, having the fullest confidence
in his capacity and integrity--these are the very words which my worthy deceased friend insisted
upon my inserting--but in TRUST always (here the reader recovered his voice and style, and
the visages of several of the hearers, which had attained a longitude that Mr. Mortcloke might
have envied, were perceptibly shortened) --in TRUST always, and for the uses, ends, and purposes
hereinafter mentioned.'

In these 'uses, ends, and purposes' lay the cream of the affair. The first was introduced by
a preamble setting forth that the testatrix was lineally descended from the ancient house of
Ellangowan, her respected great-grandfather, Andrew Bertram, first of Singleside, of happy
memory, having been second son to Allan Bertram, fifteenth Baron of Ellangowan. It proceeded
to state that Henry Bertram, son and heir of Godfrey Bertram, now of Ellangowan, had been stolen
from his parents in infancy, but that she, the testatrix, WAS WELL ASSURED THAT HE WAS YET
ALIVE IN FOREIGN PARTS, AND BY THE PROVIDENCE OF HEAVEN WOULD BE RESTORED TO THE POSSESSIONS
OF HIS ANCESTORS, in which case the said Peter Protocol was bound and obliged, like as he bound
and obliged himself, by acceptance of these presents, to denude himself of the said lands of
Singleside and others, and of all the other effects thereby conveyed (excepting always a proper
gratification for his own trouble), to and in favour of the said Henry Bertram, upon his return
to his native country. And during the time of his residing in foreign parts, or in case of
his never again returning to Scotland, Mr. Peter Protocol, the trustee, was directed to distribute
the rents of the land, and interest of the other funds (deducting always a proper gratification
for his trouble in the premises), in equal portions, among four charitable establishments pointed
out in the will. The power of management, of letting leases, of raising and lending out money,
in short, the full authority of a proprietor, was vested in this confidential trustee, and,
in the event of his death, went to certain official persons named in the deed. There were only
two legacies; one of a hundred pounds to a favourite waiting-maid, another of the like sum
to Janet Gibson (whom the deed stated to have been supported by the charity of the testatrix),
for the purpose of binding her an apprentice to some honest trade.

A settlement in mortmain is in Scotland termed a mortification, and in one great borough (Aberdeen,
if I remember rightly) there is a municipal officer who takes care of these public endowments,
and is thence called the Master of Mortifications. One would almost presume that the term had
its origin in the effect which such settlements usually produce upon the kinsmen of those by
whom they are executed. Heavy at least was the mortification which befell the audience who,
in the late Mrs. Margaret Bertram's parlour, had listened to this unexpected destination of
the lands of Singleside. There was a profound silence after the deed had been read over.

Mr. Pleydell was the first to speak. He begged to look at the deed, and, having satisfied himself
that it was correctly drawn and executed, he returned it without any observation, only saying
aside to Mannering, 'Protocol is not worse than other people, I believe; but this old lady
has determined that, if he do not turn rogue, it shall not be for want of temptation.'

'I really think,' said Mr. Mac-Casquil of Drumquag, who, having gulped down one half of his
vexation, determined to give vent to the rest--'I really think this is an extraordinary case!
I should like now to know from Mr. Protocol, who, being sole and unlimited trustee, must have
been consulted upon this occasion--I should like, I say, to know how Mrs. Bertram could possibly
believe in the existence of a boy that a' the world kens was murdered many a year since?'

'Really, sir,' said Mr. Protocol, 'I do not conceive it is possible for me to explain her motives
more than she has done herself. Our excellent deceased friend was a good woman, sir--a pious
woman--and might have grounds for confidence in the boy's safety which are not accessible to
us, sir.'

'Hout,' said the tobacconist, 'I ken very weel what were her grounds for confidence. There's
Mrs. Rebecca (the maid) sitting there has tell'd me a hundred times in my ain shop, there was
nae kenning how her leddy wad settle her affairs, for an auld gipsy witch wife at Gilsland
had possessed her with a notion that the callant--Harry Bertram ca's she him?--would come alive
again some day after a'. Ye'll no deny that, Mrs. Rebecca? though I dare to say ye forgot to
put your mistress in mind of what ye promised to say when I gied ye mony a half-crown. But
ye'll no deny what I am saying now, lass?'

'I ken naething at a' about it,' answered Rebecca, doggedly, and looking straight forward with
the firm countenance of one not disposed to be compelled to remember more than was agreeable
to her.

'Weel said, Rebecca! ye're satisfied wi' your ain share ony way,' rejoined the tobacconist.

The buck of the second-head, for a buck of the first-head he was not, had hitherto been slapping
his boots with his switch-whip, and looking like a spoiled child that has lost its supper.
His murmurs, however, were all vented inwardly, or at most in a soliloquy such as this--'I
am sorry, by G-d, I ever plagued myself about her. I came here, by G-d, one night to drink
tea, and I left King and the Duke's rider Will Hack. They were toasting a round of running
horses; by G-d, I might have got leave to wear the jacket as well as other folk if I had carried
it on with them; and she has not so much as left me that hundred!'

'We'll make the payment of the note quite agreeable,' said Mr. Protocol, who had no wish to
increase at that moment the odium attached to his office. 'And now, gentlemen, I fancy we have
no more to wait for here, and I shall put the settlement of my excellent and worthy friend
on record to-morrow, that every gentleman may examine the contents, and have free access to
take an extract; and'--he proceeded to lock up the repositories of the deceased with more speed
than he had opened them--'Mrs. Rebecca, ye'll be so kind as to keep all right here until we
can let the house; I had an offer from a tenant this morning, if such a thing should be, and
if I was to have any management.'

Our friend Dinmont, having had his hopes as well as another, had hitherto sate sulky enough
in the armchair formerly appropriated to the deceased, and in which she would have been not
a little scandalised to have seen this colossal specimen of the masculine gender lolling at
length. His employment had been rolling up into the form of a coiled snake the long lash of
his horse-whip, and then by a jerk causing it to unroll itself into the middle of the floor.
The first words he said when he had digested the shock contained a magnanimous declaration,
which he probably was not conscious of having uttered aloud--'Weel, blude's thicker than water;
she's welcome to the cheeses and the hams just the same.' But when the trustee had made the
above-mentioned motion for the mourners to depart, and talked of the house being immediately
let, honest Dinmont got upon his feet and stunned the company with this blunt question, 'And
what's to come o' this poor lassie then, Jenny Gibson? Sae mony o' us as thought oursells sib
to the family when the gear was parting, we may do something for her amang us surely.'

This proposal seemed to dispose most of the assembly instantly to evacuate the premises, although
upon Mr. Protocol's motion they had lingered as if around the grave of their disappointed hopes.
Drumquag said, or rather muttered, something of having a family of his own, and took precedence,
in virtue of his gentle blood, to depart as fast as possible. The tobacconist sturdily stood
forward and scouted the motion--'A little huzzie like that was weel eneugh provided for already;
and Mr. Protocol at ony rate was the proper person to take direction of her, as he had charge
of her legacy'; and after uttering such his opinion in a steady and decisive tone of voice,
he also left the place. The buck made a stupid and brutal attempt at a jest upon Mrs. Bertram's
recommendation that the poor girl should be taught some honest trade; but encountered a scowl
from Colonel Mannering's darkening eye (to whom, in his ignorance of the tone of good society,
he had looked for applause) that made him ache to the very backbone. He shuffled downstairs,
therefore, as fast as possible.

Protocol, who was really a good sort of man, next expressed his intention to take a temporary
charge of the young lady, under protest always that his so doing should be considered as merely
eleemosynary; when Dinmont at length got up, and, having shaken his huge dreadnought great-coat,
as a Newfoundland dog does his shaggy hide when he comes out of the water, ejaculated, 'Weel,
deil hae me then, if ye hae ony fash wi' her, Mr. Protocol, if she likes to gang hame wi' me,
that is. Ye see, Ailie and me we're weel to pass, and we would like the lassies to hae a wee
bit mair lair than oursells, and to be neighbour-like, that wad we. And ye see Jenny canna
miss but to ken manners, and the like o' reading books, and sewing seams, having lived sae
lang wi' a grand lady like Lady Singleside; or, if she disna ken ony thing about it, I'm jealous
that our bairns will like her a' the better. And I'll take care o' the bits o' claes, and what
spending siller she maun hae, so the hundred pound may rin on in your hands, Mr. Protocol,
and I'll be adding something till't, till she'll maybe get a Liddesdale joe that wants something
to help to buy the hirsel. What d'ye say to that, hinny? I'll take out a ticket for ye in the
fly to Jethart; od, but ye maun take a powny after that o'er the Limestane Rig, deil a wheeled
carriage ever gaed into Liddesdale. [Footnote: See Note I.] And I'll be very glad if Mrs. Rebecca
comes wi' you, hinny, and stays a month or twa while ye're stranger like.'

While Mrs. Rebecca was curtsying, and endeavouring to make the poor orphan girl curtsy instead
of crying, and while Dandie, in his rough way, was encouraging them both, old Pleydell had
recourse to his snuff-box. 'It's meat and drink to me now, Colonel,' he said, as he recovered
himself, 'to see a clown like this. I must gratify him in his own way, must assist him to ruin
himself; there's no help for it. Here, you Liddesdale--Dandie-- Charlie's Hope--what do they
call you?'

The farmer turned, infinitely gratified even by this sort of notice; for in his heart, next
to his own landlord, he honoured a lawyer in high practice.

'So you will not be advised against trying that question about your marches?'

'No, no, sir; naebody likes to lose their right, and to be laughed at down the haill water.
But since your honour's no agreeable, and is maybe a friend to the other side like, we maun
try some other advocate.'

'There, I told you so, Colonel Mannering! Well, sir, if you must needs be a fool, the business
is to give you the luxury of a lawsuit at the least possible expense, and to bring you off
conqueror if possible. Let Mr. Protocol send me your papers, and I will advise him how to conduct
your cause. I don't see, after all, why you should not have your lawsuits too, and your feuds
in the Court of Session, as well as your forefathers had their manslaughters and fire-raisings.'

'Very natural, to be sure, sir. We wad just take the auld gate as readily, if it werena for
the law. And as the law binds us, the law should loose us. Besides, a man's aye the better
thought o' in our country for having been afore the Feifteen.'

'Excellently argued, my friend! Away with you, and send your papers to me. Come, Colonel, we
have no more to do here.'

'God, we'll ding Jock o' Dawston Cleugh now after a'!' said Dinmont, slapping his thigh in
great exultation.

CHAPTER XXXIX

          I am going to the parliament;
     You understand this bag. If you have any business
     Depending there be short, and let me hear it,
     And pay your fees.

          Little French Lawyer

'Shall you be able to carry this honest fellow's cause for him?' said Mannering.

'Why, I don't know; the battle is not to the strong, but he shall come off triumphant over
Jock of Dawston if we can make it out. I owe him something. It is the pest of our profession
that we seldom see the best side of human nature. People come to us with every selfish feeling
newly pointed and grinded; they turn down the very caulkers of their animosities and prejudices,
as smiths do with horses' shoes in a white frost. Many a man has come to my garret yonder that
I have at first longed to pitch out at the window, and yet at length have discovered that he
was only doing as I might have done in his case, being very angry, and of course very unreasonable.
I have now satisfied myself that, if our profession sees more of human folly and human roguery
than others, it is because we witness them acting in that channel in which they can most freely
vent themselves. In civilised society law is the chimney through which all that smoke discharges
itself that used to circulate through the whole house, and put every one's eyes out; no wonder,
therefore, that the vent itself should sometimes get a little sooty. But we will take care
our Liddesdale man's cause is well conducted and well argued, so all unnecessary expense will
be saved: he shall have his pine-apple at wholesale price.'

'Will you do me the pleasure,' said Mannering, as they parted, 'to dine with me at my lodgings?
My landlord says he has a bit of red- deer venison and some excellent wine.'

'Venison, eh?' answered the Counsellor alertly, but presently added--'But no! it's impossible;
and I can't ask you home neither. Monday's a sacred day; so's Tuesday; and Wednesday we are
to be heard in the great teind case in presence, but stay--it's frosty weather, and if you
don't leave town, and that venison would keep till Thursday--'

'You will dine with me that day?'

'Under certification.'

'Well, then, I will indulge a thought I had of spending a week here; and if the venison will
not keep, why we will see what else our landlord can do for us.'

'O, the venison will keep,' said Pleydell; 'and now good-bye. Look at these two or three notes,
and deliver them if you like the addresses. I wrote them for you this morning. Farewell, my
clerk has been waiting this hour to begin a d-d information.' And away walked Mr. Pleydell
with great activity, diving through closes and ascending covered stairs in order to attain
the High Street by an access which, compared to the common route, was what the Straits of Magellan
are to the more open but circuitous passage round Cape Horn.

On looking at the notes of introduction which Pleydell had thrust into his hand, Mannering
was gratified with seeing that they were addressed to some of the first literary characters
of Scotland. 'To David Hume, Esq.'

To John Home, Esq.' 'To Dr. Ferguson.' 'To Dr. Black.' 'To Lord Kaimes.' 'To Mr. Button.' 'To
John Clerk, Esq., of Eldin.' 'To Adam Smith, Esq.' 'To Dr. Robertson.'

'Upon my word, my legal friend has a good selection of acquaintances; these are names pretty
widely blown indeed. An East-Indian must rub up his faculties a little, and put his mind in
order, before he enters this sort of society.'

Mannering gladly availed himself of these introductions; and we regret deeply it is not in
our power to give the reader an account of the pleasure and information which he received in
admission to a circle never closed against strangers of sense and information, and which has
perhaps at no period been equalled, considering the depth and variety of talent which it embraced
and concentrated.

Upon the Thursday appointed Mr. Pleydell made his appearance at the inn where Colonel Mannering
lodged. The venison proved in high order, the claret excellent, and the learned counsel, a
professed amateur in the affairs of the table, did distinguished honour to both. I am uncertain,
however, if even the good cheer gave him more satisfaction than the presence of Dominie Sampson,
from whom, in his own juridical style of wit, he contrived to extract great amusement both
for himself and one or two friends whom the Colonel regaled on the same occasion. The grave
and laconic simplicity of Sampson's answers to the insidious questions of the barrister placed
the bonhomie of his character in a more luminous point of view than Mannering had yet seen
it. Upon the same occasion he drew forth a strange quantity of miscellaneous and abstruse,
though, generally speaking, useless learning. The lawyer afterwards compared his mind to the
magazine of a pawnbroker, stowed with goods of every description, but so cumbrously piled together,
and in such total disorganisation, that the owner can never lay his hands upon any one article
at the moment he has occasion for it.

As for the advocate himself, he afforded at least as much exercise to Sampson as he extracted
amusement from him. When the man of law began to get into his altitudes, and his wit, naturally
shrewd and dry, became more lively and poignant, the Dominie looked upon him with that sort
of surprise with which we can conceive a tame bear might regard his future associate, the monkey,
on their being first introduced to each other. It was Mr. Pleydell's delight to state in grave
and serious argument some position which he knew the Dominie would be inclined to dispute.
He then beheld with exquisite pleasure the internal labour with which the honest man arranged
his ideas for reply, and tasked his inert and sluggish powers to bring up all the heavy artillery
of his learning for demolishing the schismatic or heretical opinion which had been stated,
when behold, before the ordnance could be discharged, the foe had quitted the post and appeared
in a new position of annoyance on the Dominie's flank or rear. Often did he exclaim 'Prodigious!'
when, marching up to the enemy in full confidence of victory, he found the field evacuated,
and it may be supposed that it cost him no little labour to attempt a new formation. 'He was
like a native Indian army,' the Colonel said, 'formidable by numerical strength and size of
ordnance, but liable to be thrown into irreparable confusion by a movement to take them in
flank.' On the whole, however, the Dominie, though somewhat fatigued with these mental exertions,
made at unusual speed and upon the pressure of the moment, reckoned this one of the white days
of his life, and always mentioned Mr. Pleydell as a very erudite and fa- ce-ti-ous person.

By degrees the rest of the party dropped off and left these three gentlemen together. Their
conversation turned to Mrs. Bertram's settlements. 'Now what could drive it into the noddle
of that old harridan,' said Pleydell, 'to disinherit poor Lucy Bertram under pretence of settling
her property on a boy who has been so long dead and gone? I ask your pardon, Mr. Sampson, I
forgot what an affecting case this was for you; I remember taking your examination upon it,
and I never had so much trouble to make any one speak three words consecutively. You may talk
of your Pythagoreans or your silent Brahmins, Colonel; go to, I tell you this learned gentleman
beats them all in taciturnity; but the words of the wise are precious, and not to be thrown
away lightly.'

'Of a surety,' said the Dominie, taking his blue-checqued handkerchief from his eyes, 'that
was a bitter day with me indeed; ay, and a day of grief hard to be borne; but He giveth strength
who layeth on the load.'

Colonel Mannering took this opportunity to request Mr. Pleydell to inform him of the particulars
attending the loss of the boy; and the Counsellor, who was fond of talking upon subjects of
criminal jurisprudence, especially when connected with his own experience, went through the
circumstances at full length. 'And what is your opinion upon the result of the whole?'

'O, that Kennedy was murdered: it's an old case which has occurred on that coast before now,
the case of Smuggler versus Exciseman.'

'What, then, is your conjecture concerning the fate of the child?'

'O, murdered too, doubtless,' answered Pleydell. 'He was old enough to tell what he had seen,
and these ruthless scoundrels would not scruple committing a second Bethlehem massacre if they
thought their interest required it.'

The Dominie groaned deeply, and ejaculated, 'Enormous!'

'Yet there was mention of gipsies in the business too, Counsellor,' said Mannering, 'and from
what that vulgar-looking fellow said after the funeral--'

'Mrs. Margaret Bertram's idea that the child was alive was founded upon the report of a gipsy?'
said Pleydell, catching at the half- spoken hint. 'I envy you the concatenation, Colonel; it
is a shame to me not to have drawn the same conclusion. We'll follow this business up instantly.
Here, hark ye, waiter, go down to Luckie Wood's in the Cowgate; ye'll find my clerk Driver;
he'll be set down to high jinks by this time--for we and our retainers, Colonel, are exceedingly
regular in our irregularities--tell him to come here instantly and I will pay his forfeits.'

'He won't appear in character, will he?' said Mannering.

'Ah! "no more of that, Hal, an thou lovest me,"' said Pleydell. 'But we must have some news
from the land of Egypt, if possible. O, if I had but hold of the slightest thread of this complicated
skein, you should see how I would unravel it! I would work the truth out of your Bohemian,
as the French call them, better than a monitoire or a plainte de Tournelle; I know how to manage
a refractory witness.'

While Mr. Pleydell was thus vaunting his knowledge of his profession, the waiter reentered
with Mr. Driver, his mouth still greasy with mutton pies, and the froth of the last draught
of twopenny yet unsubsided on his upper lip, with such speed had he obeyed the commands of
his principal. 'Driver, you must go instantly and find out the woman who was old Mrs. Margaret
Bertram's maid. Inquire for her everywhere, but if you find it necessary to have recourse to
Protocol, Quid the tobacconist, or any other of these folks, you will take care not to appear
yourself, but send some woman of your acquaintance; I daresay you know enough that may be so
condescending as to oblige you. When you have found her out, engage her to come to my chambers
tomorrow at eight o'clock precisely.'

'What shall I say to make her forthcoming?' asked the aid-de-camp.

'Anything you choose,' replied the lawyer. 'Is it my business to make lies for you, do you
think? But let her be in praesentia by eight o'clock, as I have said before.' The clerk grinned,
made his reverence, and exit.

'That's a useful fellow,' said the Counsellor; 'I don't believe his match ever carried a process.
He'll write to my dictating three nights in the week without sleep, or, what's the same thing,
he writes as well and correctly when he's asleep as when he's awake. Then he's such a steady
fellow; some of them are always changing their ale-houses, so that they have twenty cadies
sweating after them, like the bare-headed captains traversing the taverns of Eastcheap in search
of Sir John Falstaff. But this is a complete fixture; he has his winter seat by the fire and
his summer seat by the window in Luckie Wood's, betwixt which seats are his only migrations;
there he's to be found at all times when he is off duty. It is my opinion he never puts off
his clothes or goes to sleep; sheer ale supports him under everything. It is meat, drink, and
cloth, bed, board, and washing.'

'And is he always fit for duty upon a sudden turnout? I should distrust it, considering his
quarters.'

'O, drink, never disturbs him, Colonel; he can write for hours after he cannot speak. I remember
being called suddenly to draw an appeal case. I had been dining, and it was Saturday night,
and I had ill will to begin to it; however, they got me down to Clerihugh's, and there we sat
birling till I had a fair tappit hen [Footnote: See Note 2.] under my belt, and then they persuaded
me to draw the paper. Then we had to seek Driver, and it was all that two men could do to bear
him in, for, when found, he was, as it happened, both motionless and speechless. But no sooner
was his pen put between his fingers, his paper stretched before him, and he heard my voice,
than he began to write like a scrivener; and, excepting that we were obliged to have somebody
to dip his pen in the ink, for he could not see the standish, I never saw a thing scrolled
more handsomely.'

'But how did your joint production look the next morning?' said the Colonel.

'Wheugh! capital! not three words required to be altered: [Footnote: See Note 3. ] it was sent
off by that day's post. But you'll come and breakfast with me to-morrow, and hear this woman's
examination?'

'Why, your hour is rather early.'

'Can't make it later. If I were not on the boards of the Outer House precisely as the nine-hours'
bell rings, there would be a report that I had got an apoplexy, and I should feel the effects
of it all the rest of the session.'

'Well, I will make an exertion to wait upon you.'

Here the company broke up for the evening.

In the morning Colonel Mannering appeared at the Counsellor's chambers, although cursing the
raw air of a Scottish morning in December. Mr. Pleydell had got Mrs. Rebecca installed on one
side of his fire, accommodated her with a cup of chocolate, and was already deeply engaged
in conversation with her. 'O no, I assure you, Mrs. Rebecca, there is no intention to challenge
your mistress's will; and I give you my word of honour that your legacy is quite safe. You
have deserved it by your conduct to your mistress, and I wish it had been twice as much.'

'Why, to be sure, sir, it's no right to mention what is said before ane; ye heard how that
dirty body Quid cast up to me the bits o' compliments he gied me, and tell'd ower again ony
loose cracks I might hae had wi' him; now if ane was talking loosely to your honour, there's
nae saying what might come o't.'

'I assure you, my good Rebecca, my character and your own age and appearance are your security,
if you should talk as loosely as an amatory poet.'

'Aweel, if your honour thinks I am safe--the story is just this. Ye see, about a year ago,
or no just sae lang, my leddy was advised to go to Gilsland for a while, for her spirits were
distressing her sair. Ellangowan's troubles began to be spoken o' publicly, and sair vexed
she was; for she was proud o' her family. For Ellangowan himsell and her, they sometimes 'greed
and some times no; but at last they didna 'gree at a' for twa or three year, for he was aye
wanting to borrow siller, and that was what she couldna bide at no hand, and she was aye wanting
it paid back again, and that the Laird he liked as little. So at last they were clean aff thegither.
And then some of the company at Gilsland tells her that the estate was to be sell'd; and ye
wad hae thought she had taen an ill will at Miss Lucy Bertram frae that moment, for mony a
time she cried to me, "O Becky, O Becky, if that useless peenging thing o' a lassie there at
Ellangowan, that canna keep her ne'er-do-weel father within bounds--if she had been but a lad-bairn
they couldna hae sell'd the auld inheritance for that fool-body's debts"; and she would rin
on that way till I was just wearied and sick to hear her ban the puir lassie, as if she wadna
hae been a lad-bairn and keepit the land if it had been in her will to change her sect. And
ae day at the spaw-well below the craig at Gilsland she was seeing a very bonny family o' bairns--
they belanged to ane Mac-Crosky--and she broke out--"Is not it an odd like thing that ilka
waf carle in the country has a son and heir, and that the house of Ellangowan is without male
succession?" There was a gipsy wife stood ahint and heard her, a muckle sture fearsome-looking
wife she was as ever I set een on. "Wha is it," says she, "that dare say the house of Ellangowan
will perish without male succession?" My mistress just turned on her; she was a high-spirited
woman, and aye ready wi' an answer to a' body. "It's me that says it," says she, "that may
say it with a sad heart." Wi' that the gipsy wife gripped till her hand--"I ken you weel eneugh,"
says she, "though ye kenna me. But as sure as that sun's in heaven, and as sure as that water's
rinning to the sea, and as sure as there's an ee that sees and an ear that hears us baith,
Harry Bertram, that was thought to perish at Warroch Point, never did die there. He was to
have a weary weird o't till his ane-and-twentieth year, that was aye said o' him; but if ye
live and I live, ye'll hear mair o' him this winter before the snaw lies twa days on the Dun
of Singleside. I want nane o' your siller," she said, "to make ye think I am blearing your
ee; fare ye weel till after Martinmas." And there she left us standing.'

'Was she a very tall woman?' interrupted Mannering.

'Had she black hair, black eyes, and a cut above the brow?' added the lawyer.

'She was the tallest woman I ever saw, and her hair was as black as midnight, unless where
it was grey, and she had a scar abune the brow that ye might hae laid the lith of your finger
in. Naebody that's seen her will ever forget her; and I am morally sure that it was on the
ground o' what that gipsy-woman said that my mistress made her will, having taen a dislike
at the young leddy o' Ellangowan. And she liked her far waur after she was obliged to send
her L20; for she said Miss Bertram, no content wi' letting the Ellangowan property pass into
strange hands, owing to her being a lass and no a lad, was coming, by her poverty, to be a
burden and a disgrace to Singleside too. But I hope my mistress's is a good will for a' that,
for it would be hard on me to lose the wee bit legacy; I served for little fee and bountith,
weel I wot.'

The Counsellor relieved her fears on this head, then inquired after Jenny Gibson, and understood
she had accepted Mr. Dinmont's offer. 'And I have done sae mysell too, since he was sae discreet
as to ask me,' said Mrs. Rebecca; 'they are very decent folk the Dinmonts, though my lady didna
dow to hear muckle about the friends on that side the house. But she liked the Charlie's Hope
hams and the cheeses and the muir-fowl that they were aye sending, and the lamb's-wool hose
and mittens--she liked them weel eneugh.'

Mr. Pleydell now dismissed Mrs. Rebecca. When she was gone, 'I think I know the gipsy-woman,'
said the lawyer.

'I was just going to say the same,' replied Mannering.

'And her name,' said Pleydell--

'Is Meg Merrilies,' answered the Colonel.

'Are you avised of that?' said the Counsellor, looking at his military friend with a comic
expression of surprise.

Mannering answered that he had known such a woman when he was at Ellangowan upwards of twenty
years before; and then made his learned friend acquainted with all the remarkable particulars
of his first visit there.

Mr. Pleydell listened with great attention, and then replied, 'I congratulated myself upon
having made the acquaintance of a profound theologian in your chaplain; but I really did not
expect to find a pupil of Albumazar or Messahala in his patron. I have a notion, however, this
gipsy could tell us some more of the matter than she derives from astrology or second-sight.
I had her through hands once, and could then make little of her, but I must write to Mac-Morlan
to stir heaven and earth to find her out. I will gladly come to--shire myself to assist at
her examination; I am still in the commission of the peace there, though I have ceased to be
sheriff. I never had anything more at heart in my life than tracing that murder and the fate
of the child. I must write to the sheriff of Roxburghshire too, and to an active justice of
peace in Cumberland.'

'I hope when you come to the country you will make Woodbourne your headquarters?'

'Certainly; I was afraid you were going to forbid me. But we must go to breakfast now or I
shall be too late.'

On the following day the new friends parted, and the Colonel rejoined his family without any
adventure worthy of being detailed in these chapters.

CHAPTER XL

     Can no rest find me, no private place secure me,
     But still my miseries like bloodhounds haunt me?
     Unfortunate young man, which way now guides thee,
     Guides thee from death? The country's laid around for thee.

          Women Pleased.

Our narrative now recalls us for a moment to the period when young Hazlewood received his wound.
That accident had no sooner happened than the consequences to Miss Mannering and to himself
rushed upon Brown's mind. From the manner in which the muzzle of the piece was pointed when
it went off, he had no great fear that the consequences would be fatal. But an arrest in a
strange country, and while he was unprovided with any means of establishing his rank and character,
was at least to be avoided. He therefore resolved to escape for the present to the neighbouring
coast of England, and to remain concealed there, if possible, until he should receive letters
from his regimental friends, and remittances from his agent; and then to resume his own character,
and offer to young Hazlewood and his friends any explanation or satisfaction they might desire.
With this purpose he walked stoutly forward, after leaving the spot where the accident had
happened, and reached without adventure the village which we have called Portanferry (but which
the reader will in vain seek for under that name in the county map). A large open boat was
just about to leave the quay, bound for the little seaport of Allonby, in Cumberland. In this
vessel Brown embarked, and resolved to make that place his temporary abode, until he should
receive letters and money from England.

In the course of their short voyage he entered into some conversation with the steersman, who
was also owner of the boat, a jolly old man, who had occasionally been engaged in the smuggling
trade, like most fishers on the coast. After talking about objects of less interest, Brown
endeavoured to turn the discourse toward the Mannering family. The sailor had heard of the
attack upon the house at Woodbourne, but disapproved of the smugglers' proceedings.

'Hands off is fair play; zounds, they'll bring the whole country down upon them. Na, na! when
I was in that way I played at giff- gaff with the officers: here a cargo taen--vera weel, that
was their luck; there another carried clean through, that was mine; na, na! hawks shouldna
pike out hawks' een.'

'And this Colonel Mannering?' said Brown.

'Troth, he's nae wise man neither, to interfere; no that I blame him for saving the gangers'
lives, that was very right; but it wasna like a gentleman to be righting about the poor folk's
pocks o' tea and brandy kegs. However, he's a grand man and an officer man, and they do what
they like wi' the like o' us.'

'And his daughter,' said Brown, with a throbbing heart, 'is going to be married into a great
family too, as I have heard?'

'What, into the Hazlewoods'?' said the pilot. 'Na, na, that's but idle clashes; every Sabbath
day, as regularly as it came round, did the young man ride hame wi' the daughter of the late
Ellangowan; and my daughter Peggy's in the service up at Woodbourne, and she says she's sure
young Hazlewood thinks nae mair of Miss Mannering than you do.'

Bitterly censuring his own precipitate adoption of a contrary belief, Brown yet heard with
delight that the suspicions of Julia's fidelity, upon which he had so rashly acted, were probably
void of foundation. How must he in the meantime be suffering in her opinion? or what could
she suppose of conduct which must have made him appear to her regardless alike of her peace
of mind and of the interests of their affection? The old man's connexion with the family at
Woodbourne seemed to offer a safe mode of communication, of which he determined to avail himself.

'Your daughter is a maid-servant at Woodbourne? I knew Miss Mannering in India, and, though
I am at present in an inferior rank of life, I have great reason to hope she would interest
herself in my favour. I had a quarrel unfortunately with her father, who was my commanding
officer, and I am sure the young lady would endeavour to reconcile him to me. Perhaps your
daughter could deliver a letter to her upon the subject, without making mischief between her
father and her?'

The old man, a friend to smuggling of every kind, readily answered for the letter's being faithfully
and secretly delivered; and, accordingly, as soon as they arrived at Allonby Brown wrote to
Miss Mannering, stating the utmost contrition for what had happened through his rashness, and
conjuring her to let him have an opportunity of pleading his own cause, and obtaining forgiveness
for his indiscretion. He did not judge it safe to go into any detail concerning the circumstances
by which he had been misled, and upon the whole endeavoured to express himself with such ambiguity
that, if the letter should fall into wrong hands, it would be difficult either to understand
its real purport or to trace the writer. This letter the old man undertook faithfully to deliver
to his daughter at Woodbourne; and, as his trade would speedily again bring him or his boat
to Allonby, he promised farther to take charge of any answer with which the young lady might
entrust him.

And now our persecuted traveller landed at Allonby, and sought for such accommodations as might
at once suit his temporary poverty and his desire of remaining as much unobserved as possible.
With this view he assumed the name and profession of his friend Dudley, having command enough
of the pencil to verify his pretended character to his host of Allonby. His baggage he pretended
to expect from Wigton; and keeping himself as much within doors as possible, awaited the return
of the letters which he had sent to his agent, to Delaserre, and to his lieutenant-colonel.
From the first he requested a supply of money; he conjured Delaserre, if possible, to join
him in Scotland; and from the lieutenant-colonel he required such testimony of his rank and
conduct in the regiment as should place his character as a gentleman and officer beyond the
power of question. The inconvenience of being run short in his finances struck him so strongly
that he wrote to Dinmont on that subject, requesting a small temporary loan, having no doubt
that, being within sixty or seventy miles of his residence, he should receive a speedy as well
as favourable answer to his request of pecuniary accommodation, which was owing, as he stated,
to his having been robbed after their parting. And then, with impatience enough, though without
any serious apprehension, he waited the answers of these various letters.

It must be observed, in excuse of his correspondents, that the post was then much more tardy
than since Mr. Palmer's ingenious invention has taken place; and with respect to honest Dinmont
in particular, as he rarely received above one letter a quarter (unless during the time of
his being engaged in a law-suit, when he regularly sent to the post-town), his correspondence
usually remained for a month or two sticking in the postmaster's window among pamphlets, gingerbread,
rolls, or ballads, according to the trade which the said postmaster exercised. Besides, there
was then a custom, not yet wholly obsolete, of causing a letter from one town to another, perhaps
within the distance of thirty miles, perform a circuit of two hundred miles before delivery;
which had the combined advantage of airing the epistle thoroughly, of adding some pence to
the revenue of the post-office, and of exercising the patience of the correspondents. Owing
to these circumstances Brown remained several days in Allonby without any answers whatever,
and his stock of money, though husbanded with the utmost economy, began to wear very low, when
he received by the hands of a young fisherman the following letter:--

'You have acted with the most cruel indiscretion; you have shown how little I can trust to
your declarations that my peace and happiness are dear to you; and your rashness has nearly
occasioned the death of a young man of the highest worth and honour. Must I say more? must
I add that I have been myself very ill in consequence of your violence and its effects? And,
alas! need I say still farther, that I have thought anxiously upon them as they are likely
to affect you, although you have given me such slight cause to do so? The C. is gone from home
for several days, Mr. H. is almost quite recovered, and I have reason to think that the blame
is laid in a quarter different from that where it is deserved. Yet do not think of venturing
here. Our fate has been crossed by accidents of a nature too violent and terrible to permit
me to think of renewing a correspondence which has so often threatened the most dreadful catastrophe.
Farewell, therefore, and believe that no one can wish your happiness more sincerely than

    'J. M.'

This letter contained that species of advice which is frequently given for the precise purpose
that it may lead to a directly opposite conduct from that which it recommends. At least so
thought Brown, who immediately asked the young fisherman if he came from Portanferry.

'Ay,' said the lad; 'I am auld Willie Johnstone's son, and I got that letter frae my sister
Peggy, that's laundry maid at Woodbourne.'

'My good friend, when do you sail?'

'With the tide this evening.'

'I'll return with you; but, as I do not desire to go to Portanferry, I wish you could put me
on shore somewhere on the coast.'

'We can easily do that,' said the lad.

Although the price of provisions, etc., was then very moderate, the discharging his lodgings,
and the expense of his living, together with that of a change of dress, which safety as well
as a proper regard to his external appearance rendered necessary, brought Brown's purse to
a very low ebb. He left directions at the post-office that his letters should be forwarded
to Kippletringan, whither he resolved to proceed and reclaim the treasure which he had deposited
in the hands of Mrs. MacCandlish. He also felt it would be his duty to assume his proper character
as soon as he should receive the necessary evidence for supporting it, and, as an officer in
the king's service, give and receive every explanation which might be necessary with young
Hazlewood. 'If he is not very wrong-headed indeed,' he thought, 'he must allow the manner in
which I acted to have been the necessary consequence of his own overbearing conduct.'

And now we must suppose him once more embarked on the Solway Firth. The wind was adverse, attended
by some rain, and they struggled against it without much assistance from the tide. The boat
was heavily laden with goods (part of which were probably contraband), and laboured deep in
the sea. Brown, who had been bred a sailor, and was indeed skilled in most athletic exercises,
gave his powerful and effectual assistance in rowing, or occasionally in steering the boat,
and his advice in the management, which became the more delicate as the wind increased, and,
being opposed to the very rapid tides of that coast, made the voyage perilous. At length, after
spending the whole night upon the firth, they were at morning within sight of a beautiful bay
upon the Scottish coast. The weather was now more mild. The snow, which had been for some time
waning, had given way entirely under the fresh gale of the preceding night. The more distant
hills, indeed, retained their snowy mantle, but all the open country was cleared, unless where
a few white patches indicated that it had been drifted to an uncommon depth. Even under its
wintry appearance the shore was highly interesting. The line of sea- coast, with all its varied
curves, indentures, and embayments, swept away from the sight on either hand, in that varied,
intricate, yet graceful and easy line which the eye loves so well to pursue. And it was no
less relieved and varied in elevation than in outline by the different forms of the shore,
the beach in some places being edged by steep rocks, and in others rising smoothly from the
sands in easy and swelling slopes. Buildings of different kinds caught and reflected the wintry
sunbeams of a December morning, and the woods, though now leafless, gave relief and variety
to the landscape. Brown felt that lively and awakening interest which taste and sensibility
always derive from the beauties of nature when opening suddenly to the eye after the dulness
and gloom of a night voyage. Perhaps--for who can presume to analyse that inexplicable feeling
which binds the person born in a mountainous country to, his native hills--perhaps some early
associations, retaining their effect long after the cause was forgotten, mingled in the feelings
of pleasure with which he regarded the scene before him.

'And what,' said Brown to the boatman, 'is the name of that fine cape that stretches into the
sea with its sloping banks and hillocks of wood, and forms the right side of the bay?'

'Warroch Point,' answered the lad.

'And that old castle, my friend, with the modern house situated just beneath it? It seems at
this distance a very large building.'

'That's the Auld Place, sir; and that's the New Place below it. We'll land you there if you like.'

'I should like it of all things. I must visit that ruin before I continue my journey.'

'Ay, it's a queer auld bit,' said the fisherman; 'and that highest tower is a gude landmark
as far as Ramsay in Man and the Point of Ayr; there was muckle fighting about the place lang syne.'

Brown would have inquired into farther particulars, but a fisherman is seldom an antiquary.
His boatman's local knowledge was summed up in the information already given, 'that it was
a grand landmark, and that there had been muckle fighting about the bit lang syne.'

'I shall learn more of it,' said Brown to himself, 'when I get ashore.'

The boat continued its course close under the point upon which the castle was situated, which
frowned from the summit of its rocky site upon the still agitated waves of the bay beneath.
'I believe,' said the steersman, 'ye'll get ashore here as dry as ony gate. There's a place
where their berlins and galleys, as they ca'd them, used to lie in lang syne, but it's no used
now, because it's ill carrying gudes up the narrow stairs or ower the rocks. Whiles of a moonlight
night I have landed articles there, though.'

While he thus spoke they pulled round a point of rock, and found a very small harbour, partly
formed by nature, partly by the indefatigable labour of the ancient inhabitants of the castle,
who, as the fisherman observed, had found it essential for the protection of their boats and
small craft, though it could not receive vessels of any burden. The two points of rock which
formed the access approached each other so nearly that only one boat could enter at a time.
On each side were still remaining two immense iron rings, deeply morticed into the solid rock.
Through these, according to tradition, there was nightly drawn a huge chain, secured by an
immense padlock, for the protection of the haven and the armada which it contained. A ledge
of rock had, by the assistance of the chisel and pickaxe, been formed into a sort of quay.
The rock was of extremely hard consistence, and the task so difficult that, according to the
fisherman, a labourer who wrought at the work might in the evening have carried home in his
bonnet all the shivers which he had struck from the mass in the course of the day. This little
quay communicated with a rude staircase, already repeatedly mentioned, which descended from
the old castle. There was also a communication between the beach and the quay, by scrambling
over the rocks.

'Ye had better land here,' said the lad, 'for the surf's running high at the Shellicoat Stane,
and there will no be a dry thread amang us or we get the cargo out. Na! na! (in answer to an
offer of money) ye have wrought for your passage, and wrought far better than ony o' us. Gude
day to ye; I wuss ye weel.'

So saying, he pushed oil in order to land his cargo on the opposite side of the bay; and Brown,
with a small bundle in his hand, containing the trifling stock of necessaries which he had
been obliged to purchase at Allonby, was left on the rocks beneath the ruin.

And thus, unconscious as the most absolute stranger, and in circumstances which, if not destitute,
were for the present highly embarrassing, without the countenance of a friend within the circle
of several hundred miles, accused of a heavy crime, and, what was as bad as all the rest, being
nearly penniless, did the harassed wanderer for the first time after the interval of so many
years approach the remains of the castle where his ancestors had exercised all but regal dominion.

CHAPTER XLI

          Yes ye moss-green walls,
     Ye towers defenceless, I revisit ye
     Shame-stricken! Where are all your trophies now?
     Your thronged courts, the revelry, the tumult,
     That spoke the grandeur of my house, the homage
     Of neighbouring barons?

          Mysterious Mother.

Entering the castle of Ellangowan by a postern doorway which showed symptoms of having been
once secured with the most jealous care, Brown (whom, since he has set foot upon the property
of his fathers, we shall hereafter call by his father's name of Bertram) wandered from one
ruined apartment to another, surprised at the massive strength of some parts of the building,
the rude and impressive magnificence of others, and the great extent of the whole. In two of
these rooms, close beside each other, he saw signs of recent habitation. In one small apartment
were empty bottles, half-gnawed bones, and dried fragments of bread. In the vault which adjoined,
and which was defended by a strong door, then left open, he observed a considerable quantity
of straw, and in both were the relics of recent fires. How little was it possible for Bertram
to conceive that such trivial circumstances were closely connected with incidents affecting
his prosperity, his honour, perhaps his life!

After satisfying his curiosity by a hasty glance through the interior of the castle, Bertram
now advanced through the great gateway which opened to the land, and paused to look upon the
noble landscape which it commanded. Having in vain endeavoured to guess the position of Woodbourne,
and having nearly ascertained that of Kippletringan, he turned to take a parting look at the
stately ruins which he had just traversed. He admired the massive and picturesque effect of
the huge round towers, which, flanking the gateway, gave a double portion of depth and majesty
to the high yet gloomy arch under which it opened. The carved stone escutcheon of the ancient
family, bearing for their arms three wolves' heads, was hung diagonally beneath the helmet
and crest, the latter being a wolf couchant pierced with an arrow. On either side stood as
supporters, in full human size or larger, a salvage man PROPER, to use the language of heraldry,
WREATHED AND CINCTURED, and holding in his hand an oak tree ERADICATED, that is, torn up by
the roots.

'And the powerful barons who owned this blazonry,' thought Bertram, pursuing the usual train
of ideas which flows upon the mind at such scenes--'do their posterity continue to possess
the lands which they had laboured to fortify so strongly? or are they wanderers, ignorant perhaps
even of the fame or power of their fore-fathers, while their hereditary possessions are held
by a race of strangers? Why is it,' he thought, continuing to follow out the succession of
ideas which the scene prompted--'why is it that some scenes awaken thoughts which belong as
it were to dreams of early and shadowy recollection, such as my old Brahmin moonshie would
have ascribed to a state of previous existence? Is it the visions of our sleep that float confusedly
in our memory, and are recalled by the appearance of such real objects as in any respect correspond
to the phantoms they presented to our imagination? How often do we find ourselves in society
which we have never before met, and yet feel impressed with a mysterious and ill-defined consciousness
that neither the scene, the speakers, nor the subject are entirely new; nay, feel as if we
could anticipate that part of the conversation which has not yet taken place! It is even so
with me while I gaze upon that ruin; nor can I divest myself of the idea that these massive
towers and that dark gateway, retiring through its deep-vaulted and ribbed arches, and dimly
lighted by the courtyard beyond, are not entirely strange to me. Can it be that they have been
familiar to me in infancy, and that I am to seek in their vicinity those friends of whom my
childhood has still a tender though faint remembrance, and whom I early exchanged for such
severe task-masters? Yet Brown, who, I think, would not have deceived me, always told me I
was brought off from the eastern coast, after a skirmish in which my father was killed; and
I do remember enough of a horrid scene of violence to strengthen his account.'

It happened that the spot upon which young Bertram chanced to station himself for the better
viewing the castle was nearly the same on which his father had died. It was marked by a large
old oak-tree, the only one on the esplanade, and which, having been used for executions by
the barons of Ellangowan, was called the Justice Tree. It chanced, and the coincidence was
remarkable, that Glossin was this morning engaged with a person whom he was in the habit of
consulting in such matters concerning some projected repairs and a large addition to the house
of Ellangowan, and that, having no great pleasure in remains so intimately connected with the
grandeur of the former inhabitants, he had resolved to use the stones of the ruinous castle
in his new edifice. Accordingly he came up the bank, followed by the land-surveyor mentioned
on a former occasion, who was also in the habit of acting as a sort of architect in case of
necessity. In drawing the plans, etc., Glossin was in the custom of relying upon his own skill.
Bertram's back was towards them as they came up the ascent, and he was quite shrouded by the
branches of the large tree, so that Glossin was not aware of the presence of the stranger till
he was close upon him.

'Yes, sir, as I have often said before to you, the Old Place is a perfect quarry of hewn stone,
and it would be better for the estate if it were all down, since it is only a den for smugglers.'
At this instant Bertram turned short round upon Glossin at the distance of two yards only,
and said--'Would you destroy this fine old castle, sir?'

His face, person, and voice were so exactly those of his father in his best days, that Glossin,
hearing his exclamation, and seeing such a sudden apparition in the shape of his patron, and
on nearly the very spot where he had expired, almost thought the grave had given up its dead!
He staggered back two or three paces, as if he had received a sudden and deadly wound. He instantly
recovered, however, his presence of mind, stimulated by the thrilling reflection that it was
no inhabitant of the other world which stood before him, but an injured man whom the slightest
want of dexterity on his part might lead to acquaintance with his rights, and the means of
asserting them to his utter destruction. Yet his ideas were so much confused by the shock he
had received that his first question partook of the alarm.

'In the name of God, how came you here?' said Glossin.

'How came I here?' repeated Bertram, surprised at the solemnity of the address; 'I landed a
quarter of an hour since in the little harbour beneath the castle, and was employing a moment's
leisure in viewing these fine ruins. I trust there is no intrusion?'

'Intrusion, sir? No, sir,' said Glossin, in some degree recovering his breath, and then whispered
a few words into his companion's ear, who immediately left him and descended towards the house.
'Intrusion, sir? no, sir; you or any gentleman are welcome to satisfy your curiosity.'

'I thank you, sir,' said Bertram. 'They call this the Old Place, I am informed?'

'Yes, sir; in distinction to the New Place, my house there below.'

Glossin, it must be remarked, was, during the following dialogue, on the one hand eager to
learn what local recollections young Bertram had retained of the scenes of his infancy, and
on the other compelled to be extremely cautious in his replies, lest he should awaken or assist,
by some name, phrase, or anecdote, the slumbering train of association. He suffered, indeed,
during the whole scene the agonies which he so richly deserved; yet his pride and interest,
like the fortitude of a North American Indian, manned him to sustain the tortures inflicted
at once by the contending stings of a guilty conscience, of hatred, of fear, and of suspicion.

'I wish to ask the name, sir,' said Bertram, 'of the family to whom this stately ruin belongs.'

'It is my property, sir; my name is Glossin.'

'Glossin--Glossin?' repeated Bertram, as if the answer were somewhat different from what he
expected. 'I beg your pardon, Mr. Glossin; I am apt to be very absent. May I ask if the castle
has been long in your family?'

'It was built, I believe, long ago by a family called Mac- Dingawaie,' answered Glossin, suppressing
for obvious reasons the more familiar sound of Bertram, which might have awakened the recollections
which he was anxious to lull to rest, and slurring with an evasive answer the question concerning
the endurance of his own possession.

'And how do you read the half-defaced motto, sir,' said Bertram, 'which is upon that scroll
above the entablature with the arms?'

'I--I--I really do not exactly know,' replied Glossin.

'I should be apt to make it out, OUR RIGHT MAKES OUR MIGHT.'

'I believe it is something of that kind,' said Glossin.

'May I ask, sir,' said the stranger, 'if it is your family motto?'

'N--n--no--no--not ours. That is, I believe, the motto of the former people; mine is--mine
is--in fact, I have had some correspondence with Mr. Cumming of the Lyon Office in Edinburgh
about mine. He writes me the Glossins anciently bore for a motto, "He who takes it, makes it."'

'If there be any uncertainty, sir, and the case were mine,' said Bertram, 'I would assume the
old motto, which seems to me the better of the two.'

Glossin, whose tongue by this time clove to the roof of his mouth, only answered by a nod.

'It is odd enough,' said Bertram, fixing his eye upon the arms and gateway, and partly addressing
Glossin, partly as it were thinking aloud--'it is odd the tricks which our memory plays us.
The remnants of an old prophecy, or song, or rhyme of some kind or other, return to my recollection
on hearing that motto; stay--it is a strange jingle of sounds:--

     The dark shall be light,
     And the wrong made right,
     When Bertram's right and Bertram's might
     Shall meet on---

I cannot remember the last line--on some particular height; HEIGHT is the rhyme, I am sure;
but I cannot hit upon the preceding word.'

'Confound your memory,' muttered Glossin, 'you remember by far too much of it!'

'There are other rhymes connected with these early recollections,' continued the young man.
'Pray, sir, is there any song current in this part of the world respecting a daughter of the
King of the Isle of Man eloping with a Scottish knight?'

'I am the worst person in the world to consult upon legendary antiquities,' answered Glossin.

'I could sing such a ballad,' said Bertram, 'from one end to another when I was a boy. You
must know I left Scotland, which is my native country, very young, and those who brought me
up discouraged all my attempts to preserve recollection of my native land, on account, I believe,
of a boyish wish which I had to escape from their charge.'

'Very natural,' said Glossin, but speaking as if his utmost efforts were unable to unseal his
lips beyond the width of a quarter of an inch, so that his whole utterance was a kind of compressed
muttering, very different from the round, bold, bullying voice with which he usually spoke.
Indeed, his appearance and demeanour during all this conversation seemed to diminish even his
strength and stature; so that he appeared to wither into the shadow of himself, now advancing
one foot, now the other, now stooping and wriggling his shoulders, now fumbling with the buttons
of his waistcoat, now clasping his hands together; in short, he was the picture of a mean-spirited,
shuffling rascal in the very agonies of detection. To these appearances Bertram was totally
inattentive, being dragged on as it were by the current of his own associations. Indeed, although
he addressed Glossin, he was not so much thinking of him as arguing upon the embarrassing state
of his own feelings and recollection. She immediately took up the song:--

     'Are these the Links of Forth, she said,
       Or are they the crooks of Dee,
     Or the bonnie woods of Warroch Head
       That I so fain would see?'

'By heaven,' said Bertram, 'it is the very ballad! I must learn these words from the girl.'

'Confusion!' thought Glossin; 'if I cannot put a stop to this all will be out. O the devil
take all ballads and ballad-makers and ballad-singers! and that d--d jade too, to set up her
pipe!'--'You will have time enough for this on some other occasion,' he said aloud; 'at present'
(for now he saw his emissary with two or three men coming up the bank)--'at present we must
have some more serious conversation together.'

'How do you mean, sir?' said Bertram, turning short upon him, and not liking the tone which
he made use of.

'Why, sir, as to that--I believe your name is Brown?' said Glossin. 'And what of that, sir?'

Glossin looked over his shoulder to see how near his party had approached; they were coming
fast on. 'Vanbeest Brown? if I mistake not.'

'And what of that, sir?' said Bertram, with increasing astonishment and displeasure.

'Why, in that case,' said Glossin, observing his friends had now got upon the level space close
beside them--'in that case you are my prisoner in the king's name!' At the same time he stretched
his hand towards Bertram's collar, while two of the men who had come up seized upon his arms;
he shook himself, however, free of their grasp by a violent effort, in which he pitched the
most pertinacious down the bank, and, drawing his cutlass, stood on the defensive, while those
who had felt his strength recoiled from his presence and gazed at a safe distance. 'Observe,'
he called out at the same time, 'that I have no purpose to resist legal authority; satisfy
me that you have a magistrate's warrant, and are authorised to make this arrest, and I will
obey it quietly; but let no man who loves his life venture to approach me till I am satisfied
for what crime, and by whose authority, I am apprehended.'

Glossin then caused one of the officers show a warrant for the apprehension of Vanbeest Brown,
accused of the crime of wilfully and maliciously shooting at Charles Hazlewood, younger of
Hazlewood, with an intent to kill, and also of other crimes and misdemeanours, and which appointed
him, having been so apprehended, to be brought before the next magistrate for examination.
The warrant being formal, and the fact such as he could not deny, Bertram threw down his weapon
and submitted himself to the officers, who, flying on him with eagerness corresponding to their
former pusillanimity, were about to load him with irons, alleging the strength and activity
which he had displayed as a justification of this severity. But Glossin was ashamed or afraid
to permit this unnecessary insult, and directed the prisoner to be treated with all the decency,
and even respect, that was consistent with safety. Afraid, however, to introduce him into his
own house, where still further subjects of recollection might have been suggested, and anxious
at the same time to cover his own proceedings by the sanction of another's authority, he ordered
his carriage (for he had lately set up a carriage) to be got ready, and in the meantime directed
refreshments to be given to the prisoner and the officers, who were consigned to one of the
rooms in the old castle, until the means of conveyance for examination before a magistrate
should be provided.

          King Lear.

While the carriage was getting ready, Glossin had a letter to compose, about which he wasted
no small time. It was to his neighbour, as he was fond of calling him, Sir Robert Hazlewood
of Hazlewood, the head of an ancient and powerful interest in the county, which had in the
decadence of the Ellangowan family gradually succeeded to much of their authority and influence.
The present representative of the family was an elderly man, dotingly fond of his own family,
which was limited to an only son and daughter, and stoically indifferent to the fate of all
mankind besides. For the rest, he was honourable in his general dealings because he was afraid
to suffer the censure of the world, and just from a better motive. He was presumptuously over-conceited
on the score of family pride and importance, a feeling considerably enhanced by his late succession
to the title of a Nova Scotia baronet; and he hated the memory of the Ellangowan family, though
now a memory only, because a certain baron of that house was traditionally reported to have
caused the founder of the Hazlewood family hold his stirrup until he mounted into his saddle.
In his general deportment he was pompous and important, affecting a species of florid elocution,
which often became ridiculous from his misarranging the triads and quaternions with which he
loaded his sentences.

To this personage Glossin was now to write in such a conciliatory style as might be most acceptable
to his vanity and family pride, and the following was the form of his note:--

'Mr. Gilbert Glossin' (he longed to add of Ellangowan, but prudence prevailed, and he suppressed
that territorial designation)--'Mr. Gilbert Glossin has the honour to offer his most respectful
compliments to Sir Robert Hazlewood, and to inform him that he has this morning been fortunate
enough to secure the person who wounded Mr. C. Hazlewood. As Sir Robert Hazlewood may probably
choose to conduct the examination of this criminal himself, Mr. G. Glossin will cause the man
to be carried to the inn at Kippletringan or to Hazlewood House, as Sir Robert Hazlewood may
be pleased to direct. And, with Sir Robert Hazlewood's permission, Mr. G. Glossin will attend
him at either of these places with the proofs and declarations which he has been so fortunate
as to collect respecting this atrocious business.'

     Addressed,

     'Sir ROBERT HAZLEWOOD of Hazlewood, Bart.
     'Hazlewood House, etc. etc.

     'ELLN GN.

     'Tuesday.'

This note he despatched by a servant on horseback, and having given the man some time to get
ahead, and desired him to ride fast, he ordered two officers of justice to get into the carriage
with Bertram; and he himself, mounting his horse, accompanied them at a slow pace to the point
where the roads to Kippletringan and Hazlewood House separated, and there awaited the return
of his messenger, in order that his farther route might be determined by the answer he should
receive from the Baronet. In about half an hour, his servant returned with the following answer,
handsomely folded, and sealed with the Hazlewood arms, having the Nova Scotia badge depending
from the shield:--

'Sir Robert Hazlewood of Hazlewood returns Mr. G. Glossin's compliments, and thanks him for
the trouble he has taken in a matter affecting the safety of Sir Robert's family. Sir R.H.
requests Mr. G.G. will have the goodness to bring the prisoner to Hazlewood House for examination,
with the other proofs or declarations which he mentions. And after the business is over, in
case Mr. G.G. is not otherwise engaged, Sir R. and Lady Hazlewood request his company to dinner.'

     Addressed,

     'Mr. GILBERT GLOSSIN, etc.
     'HAZLEWOOD HOUSE, Tuesday.'

'Soh!' thought Mr. Glossin, 'here is one finger in at least, and that I will make the means
of introducing my whole hand. But I must first get clear of this wretched young fellow. I think
I can manage Sir Robert. He is dull and pompous, and will be alike disposed to listen to my
suggestions upon the law of the case and to assume the credit of acting upon them as his own
proper motion. So I shall have the advantage of being the real magistrate, without the odium
of responsibility.'

As he cherished these hopes and expectations, the carriage approached Hazlewood House through
a noble avenue of old oaks, which shrouded the ancient abbey-resembling building so called.
It was a large edifice, built at different periods, part having actually been a priory, upon
the suppression of which, in the time of Queen Mary, the first of the family had obtained a
gift of the house and surrounding lands from the crown. It was pleasantly situated in a large
deer-park, on the banks of the river we have before mentioned. The scenery around was of a
dark, solemn, and somewhat melancholy cast, according well with the architecture of the house.
Everything appeared to be kept in the highest possible order, and announced the opulence and
rank of the proprietor.

As Mr. Glossin's carriage stopped at the door of the hall, Sir Robert reconnoitred the new
vehicle from the windows. According to his aristocratic feelings, there was a degree of presumption
in this novus homo, this Mr. Gilbert Glossin, late writer in---, presuming to set up such an
accommodation at all; but his wrath was mitigated when he observed that the mantle upon the
panels only bore a plain cipher of G.G. This apparent modesty was indeed solely owing to the
delay of Mr. Gumming of the Lyon Office, who, being at that time engaged in discovering and
matriculating the arms of two commissaries from North America, three English-Irish peers, and
two great Jamaica traders, had been more slow than usual in finding an escutcheon for the new
Laird of Ellangowan. But his delay told to the advantage of Glossin in the opinion of the proud
Baronet.

While the officers of justice detained their prisoner in a sort of steward's room, Mr. Glossin
was ushered into what was called the great oak-parlour, a long room, panelled with well-varnished
wainscot, and adorned with the grim portraits of Sir Robert Hazlewood's ancestry. The visitor,
who had no internal consciousness of worth to balance that of meanness of birth, felt his inferiority,
and by the depth of his bow and the obsequiousness of his demeanour showed that the Laird of
Ellangowan was sunk for the time in the old and submissive habits of the quondam retainer of
the law. He would have persuaded himself, indeed, that he was only humouring the pride of the
old Baronet for the purpose of turning it to his own advantage, but his feelings were of a
mingled nature, and he felt the influence of those very prejudices which he pretended to flatter.

The Baronet received his visitor with that condescending parade which was meant at once to
assert his own vast superiority, and to show the generosity and courtesy with which he could
waive it, and descend to the level of ordinary conversation with ordinary men. He thanked Glossin
for his attention to a matter in which 'young Hazlewood' was so intimately concerned, and,
pointing to his family pictures, observed, with a gracious smile, 'Indeed, these venerable
gentlemen, Mr. Glossin, are as much obliged as I am in this case for the labour, pains, care,
and trouble which you have taken in their behalf; and I have no doubt, were they capable of
expressing themselves, would join me, sir, in thanking you for the favour you have conferred
upon the house of Hazlewood by taking care, and trouble, sir, and interest in behalf of the
young gentleman who is to continue their name and family.'

Thrice bowed Glossin, and each time more profoundly than before; once in honour of the knight
who stood upright before him, once in respect to the quiet personages who patiently hung upon
the wainscot, and a third time in deference to the young gentleman who was to carry on the
name and family. Roturier as he was, Sir Robert was gratified by the homage which he rendered,
and proceeded in a tone of gracious familiarity: 'And now, Mr. Glossin, my exceeding good friend,
you must allow me to avail myself of your knowledge of law in our proceedings in this matter.
I am not much in the habit of acting as a justice of the peace; it suits better with other
gentlemen, whose domestic and family affairs require less constant superintendence, attention,
and management than mine.'

Of course, whatever small assistance Mr. Glossin could render was entirely at Sir Robert Hazlewood's
service; but, as Sir Robert Hazlewood's name stood high in the list of the faculty, the said
Mr. Glossin could not presume to hope it could be either necessary or useful.

'Why, my good sir, you will understand me only to mean that I am something deficient in the
practical knowledge of the ordinary details of justice business. I was indeed educated to the
bar, and might boast perhaps at one time that I had made some progress in the speculative and
abstract and abstruse doctrines of our municipal code; but there is in the present day so little
opportunity of a man of family and fortune rising to that eminence at the bar which is attained
by adventurers who are as willing to plead for John a' Nokes as for the first noble of the
land, that I was really early disgusted with practice. The first case, indeed, which was laid
on my table quite sickened me: it respected a bargain, sir, of tallow between a butcher and
a candlemaker; and I found it was expected that I should grease my mouth not only with their
vulgar names, but with all the technical terms and phrases and peculiar language of their dirty
arts. Upon my honour, my good sir, I have never been able to bear the smell of a tallow-candle
since.'

Pitying, as seemed to be expected, the mean use to which the Baronet's faculties had been degraded
on this melancholy occasion, Mr. Glossin offered to officiate as clerk or assessor, or in any
way in which he could be most useful. 'And with a view to possessing you of the whole business,
and in the first place, there will, I believe, be no difficulty in proving the main fact, that
this was the person who fired the unhappy piece. Should he deny it, it can be proved by Mr.
Hazlewood, I presume?'

'Young Hazlewood is not at home to-day, Mr. Glossin.'

'But we can have the oath of the servant who attended him,' said the ready Mr. Glossin; 'indeed,
I hardly think the fact will be disputed. I am more apprehensive that, from the too favourable
and indulgent manner in which I have understood that Mr. Hazlewood has been pleased to represent
the business, the assault may be considered as accidental, and the injury as unintentional,
so that the fellow may be immediately set at liberty to do more mischief.'

'I have not the honour to know the gentleman who now holds the office of king's advocate,'
replied Sir Robert, gravely; 'but I presume, sir--nay, I am confident, that he will consider
the mere fact of having wounded young Hazlewood of Hazlewood, even by inadvertency, to take
the matter in its mildest and gentlest, and in its most favourable and improbable, light, as
a crime which will be too easily atoned by imprisonment, and as more deserving of deportation.'

'Indeed, Sir Robert,' said his assenting brother in justice, 'I am entirely of your opinion;
but, I don't know how it is, I have observed the Edinburgh gentlemen of the bar, and even the
officers of the crown, pique themselves upon an indifferent administration of justice, without
respect to rank and family; and I should fear--'

'How, sir, without respect to rank and family? Will you tell me THAT doctrine can be held by
men of birth and legal education? No, sir; if a trifle stolen in the street is termed mere
pickery, but is elevated into sacrilege if the crime be committed in a church, so, according
to the just gradations of society, the guilt of an injury is enhanced by the rank of the person
to whom it is offered, done, or perpetrated, sir.'

Glossin bowed low to this declaration ex cathedra, but observed, that in the case of the very
worst, and of such unnatural doctrines being actually held as he had already hinted, 'the law
had another hold on Mr. Vanbeest Brown.'

'Vanbeest Brown! is that the fellow's name? Good God! that young Hazlewood of Hazlewood should
have had his life endangered, the clavicle of his right shoulder considerably lacerated and
dislodged, several large drops or slugs deposited in the acromion process, as the account of
the family surgeon expressly bears, and all by an obscure wretch named Vanbeest Brown!'

'Why, really, Sir Robert, it is a thing which one can hardly bear to think of; but, begging
ten thousand pardons for resuming what I was about to say, a person of the same name is, as
appears from these papers (producing Dirk Hatteraick's pocket-book), mate to the smuggling
vessel who offered such violence at Woodbourne, and I have no doubt that this is the same individual;
which, however, your acute discrimination will easily be able to ascertain.'

'The same, my good sir, he must assuredly be; it would be injustice even to the meanest of
the people to suppose there could be found among them TWO persons doomed to bear a name so
shocking to one's ears as this of Vanbeest Brown.' 'True, Sir Robert; most unquestionably;
there cannot be a shadow of doubt of it. But you see farther, that this circumstance accounts
for the man's desperate conduct. You, Sir Robert, will discover the motive for his crime--you,
I say, will discover it without difficulty on your giving your mind to the examination; for
my part, I cannot help suspecting the moving spring to have been revenge for the gallantry
with which Mr. Hazlewood, with all the spirit of his renowned forefathers, defended the house
at Woodbourne against this villain and his lawless companions.'

'I will inquire into it, my good sir,' said the learned Baronet. 'Yet even now I venture to
conjecture that I shall adopt the solution or explanation of this riddle, enigma, or mystery
which you have in some degree thus started. Yes! revenge it must be; and, good Heaven! entertained
by and against whom? entertained, fostered, cherished against young Hazlewood of Hazlewood,
and in part carried into effect, executed, and implemented by the hand of Vanbeest Brown! These
are dreadful days indeed, my worthy neighbour (this epithet indicated a rapid advance in the
Baronet's good graces)--days when the bulwarks of society are shaken to their mighty base,
and that rank which forms, as it were, its highest grace and ornament is mingled and confused
with the viler parts of the architecture. O, my good Mr. Gilbert Glossin, in my time, sir,
the use of swords and pistols, and such honourable arms, was reserved by the nobility and gentry
to themselves, and the disputes of the vulgar were decided by the weapons which nature had
given them, or by cudgels cut, broken, or hewed out of the next wood. But now, sir, the clouted
shoe of the peasant galls the kibe of the courtier. The lower ranks have their quarrels, sir,
and their points of honour, and their revenges, which they must bring, forsooth, to fatal arbitrament.
But well, well! it will last my time. Let us have in this fellow, this Vanbeest Brown, and
make an end of him, at least for the present.'

CHAPTER XLIII

     'Twas he
     Gave heat unto the injury, which returned,
     Like a petard ill lighted, into the bosom
     Of him gave fire to't. Yet I hope his hurt
     Is not so dangerous but he may recover

          Fair Maid of the Inn.

The prisoner was now presented before the two worshipful magistrates. Glossin, partly from
some compunctious visitings, and partly out of his cautious resolution to suffer Sir Robert
Hazlewood to be the ostensible manager of the whole examination, looked down upon the table,
and busied himself with reading and arranging the papers respecting the business, only now
and then throwing in a skilful catchword as prompter, when he saw the principal, and apparently
most active, magistrate stand in need of a hint. As for Sir Robert Hazlewood, he assumed on
his part a happy mixture of the austerity of the justice combined with the display of personal
dignity appertaining to the baronet of ancient family.

'There, constables, let him stand there at the bottom of the table. Be so good as look me in
the face, sir, and raise your voice as you answer the questions which I am going to put to you.'

'May I beg, in the first place, to know, sir, who it is that takes the trouble to interrogate
me?' said the prisoner; 'for the honest gentlemen who have brought me here have not been pleased
to furnish any information upon that point.'

'And pray, sir,' answered Sir Robert, 'what has my name and quality to do with the questions
I am about to ask you?'

'Nothing, perhaps, sir,' replied Bertram; 'but it may considerably influence my disposition
to answer them.'

'Why, then, sir, you will please to be informed that you are in presence of Sir Robert Hazlewood
of Hazlewood, and another justice of peace for this county--that's all.'

As this intimation produced a less stunning effect upon the prisoner than he had anticipated,
Sir Robert proceeded in his investigation with an increasing dislike to the object of it.

'Is your name Vanbeest Brown, sir?'

'It is,' answered the prisoner.

'So far well; and how are we to design you farther, sir?' demanded the Justice.

'Captain in his Majesty's---regiment of horse,' answered Bertram.

The Baronet's ears received this intimation with astonishment; but he was refreshed in courage
by an incredulous look from Glossin, and by hearing him gently utter a sort of interjectional
whistle, in a note of surprise and contempt. 'I believe, my friend,' said Sir Robert, 'we shall
find for you, before we part, a more humble title.'

'If you do, sir,' replied his prisoner, 'I shall willingly submit to any punishment which such
an imposture shall be thought to deserve.'

'Well, sir, we shall see,' continued Sir Robert. 'Do you know young Hazlewood of Hazlewood?'

'I never saw the gentleman who I am informed bears that name excepting once, and I regret that
it was under very unpleasant circumstances.'

'You mean to acknowledge, then,' said the Baronet, 'that you inflicted upon young Hazlewood
of Hazlewood that wound which endangered his life, considerably lacerated the clavicle of his
right shoulder, and deposited, as the family surgeon declares, several large drops or slugs
in the acromion process?'

'Why, sir,' replied Bertram, 'I can only say I am equally ignorant of and sorry for the extent
of the damage which the young gentleman has sustained. I met him in a narrow path, walking
with two ladies and a servant, and before I could either pass them or address them, this young
Hazlewood took his gun from his servant, presented it against my body, and commanded me in
the most haughty tone to stand back. I was neither inclined to submit to his authority nor
to leave him in possession of the means to injure me, which he seemed disposed to use with
such rashness. I therefore closed with him for the purpose of disarming him; and, just as I
had nearly effected my purpose, the piece went off accidentally, and, to my regret then and
since, inflicted upon the young gentleman a severer chastisement than I desired, though I am
glad to understand it is like to prove no more than his unprovoked folly deserved.'

'And so, sir,' said the Baronet, every feature swoln with offended dignity, 'you, sir, admit,
sir, that it was your purpose, sir, and your intention, sir, and the real jet and object of
your assault, sir, to disarm young Hazlewood of Hazlewood of his gun, sir, or his fowling-piece,
or his fuzee, or whatever you please to call it, sir, upon the king's highway, sir? I think
this will do, my worthy neighbour! I think he should stand committed?'

'You are by far the best judge, Sir Robert,' said Glossin, in his most insinuating tone; 'but
if I might presume to hint, there was something about these smugglers.'

'Very true, good sir. And besides, sir, you, Vanbeest Brown, who call yourself a captain in
his Majesty's service, are no better or worse than a rascally mate of a smuggler!'

'Really, sir,' said Bertram, 'you are an old gentleman, and acting under some strange delusion,
otherwise I should be very angry with you.'

'Old gentleman, sir! strange delusion, sir!' said Sir Robert, colouring with indignation. 'I
protest and declare--Why, sir, have you any papers or letters that can establish your pretended
rank and estate and commission?'

'None at present, sir,' answered Bertram; 'but in the return of a post or two---'

'And how do you, sir,' continued the Baronet, 'if you are a captain in his Majesty's service--how
do you chance to be travelling in Scotland without letters of introduction, credentials, baggage,
or anything belonging to your pretended rank, estate, and condition, as I said before?'

'Sir,' replied the prisoner, 'I had the misfortune to be robbed of my clothes and baggage.'

'Oho! then you are the gentleman who took a post-chaise from---to Kippletringan, gave the boy
the slip on the road, and sent two of your accomplices to beat the boy and bring away the baggage?'

'I was, sir, in a carriage, as you describe, was obliged to alight in the snow, and lost my
way endeavouring to find the road to Kippletringan. The landlady of the inn will inform you
that on my arrival there the next day, my first inquiries were after the boy.'

'Then give me leave to ask where you spent the night, not in the snow, I presume? You do not
suppose that will pass, or be taken, credited, and received?'

'I beg leave,' said Bertram, his recollection turning to the gipsy female and to the promise
he had given her--'I beg leave to decline answering that question.'

'I thought as much,' said Sir Robert. 'Were you not during that night in the ruins of Derncleugh?--in
the ruins of Derncleugh, sir?'

'I have told you that I do not intend answering that question,' replied Bertram.

'Well, sir, then you will stand committed, sir,' said Sir Robert, 'and be sent to prison, sir,
that's all, sir. Have the goodness to look at these papers; are you the Vanbeest Brown who
is there mentioned?'

It must be remarked that Glossin had shuffled among the papers some writings which really did
belong to Bertram, and which had been found by the officers in the old vault where his portmanteau
was ransacked.

'Some of these papers,' said Bertram, looking over them, 'are mine, and were in my portfolio
when it was stolen from the post- chaise. They are memoranda of little value, and, I see, have
been carefully selected as affording no evidence of my rank or character, which many of the
other papers would have established fully. They are mingled with ship-accounts and other papers,
belonging apparently to a person of the same name.'

'And wilt thou attempt to persuade me, friend,' demanded Sir Robert, 'that there are TWO persons
in this country at the same time of thy very uncommon and awkwardly sounding name?'

'I really do not see, sir, as there is an old Hazlewood and a young Hazlewood, why there should
not be an old and a young Vanbeest Brown. And, to speak seriously, I was educated in Holland,
and I know that this name, however uncouth it may sound in British ears---'

Glossin, conscious that the prisoner was now about to enter upon dangerous ground, interfered,
though the interruption was unnecessary, for the purpose of diverting the attention of Sir
Robert Hazlewood, who was speechless and motionless with indignation at the presumptuous comparison
implied in Bertram's last speech. In fact, the veins of his throat and of his temples swelled
almost to bursting, and he sat with the indignant and disconcerted air of one who has received
a mortal insult from a quarter to which he holds it unmeet and indecorous to make any reply.
While, with a bent brow and an angry eye, he was drawing in his breath slowly and majestically,
and puffing it forth again with deep and solemn exertion, Glossin stepped in to his assistance.
'I should think now, Sir Robert, with great submission, that this matter may be closed. One
of the constables, besides the pregnant proof already produced, offers to make oath that the
sword of which the prisoner was this morning deprived (while using it, by the way, in resistance
to a legal warrant) was a cutlass taken from him in a fray between the officers and smugglers
just previous to their attack upon Woodbourne. And yet,' he added, 'I would not have you form
any rash construction upon that subject; perhaps the young man can explain how he came by that
weapon.'

'That question, sir,' said Bertram, 'I shall also leave unanswered.'

'There is yet another circumstance to be inquired into, always under Sir Robert's leave,' insinuated
Glossin. 'This prisoner put into the hands of Mrs. MacCandlish of Kippletringan a parcel containing
a variety of gold coins and valuable articles of different kinds. Perhaps, Sir Robert, you
might think it right to ask how he came by property of a description which seldom occurs?'

'You, sir, Mr. Vanbeest Brown, sir, you hear the question, sir, which the gentleman asks you?'

'I have particular reasons for declining to answer that question,' answered Bertram.

'Then I am afraid, sir,' said Glossin, who had brought matters to the point he desired to reach,
'our duty must lay us under the necessity to sign a warrant of committal.'

'As you please, sir,' answered Bertram; 'take care, however, what you do. Observe that I inform
you that I am a captain in his Majesty's---regiment, and that I am just returned from India,
and therefore cannot possibly be connected with any of those contraband traders you talk of;
that my lieutenant-colonel is now at Nottingham, the major, with the officers of my corps,
at Kingston-upon-Thames. I offer before you both to submit to any degree of ignominy if, within
the return of the Kingston and Nottingham posts, I am not able to establish these points. Or
you may write to the agent for the regiment if you please, and---'

'This is all very well, sir,' said Glossin, beginning to fear lest the firm expostulation of
Bertram should make some impression on Sir Robert, who would almost have died of shame at committing
such a solecism as sending a captain of horse to jail--'this is all very well, sir; but is
there no person nearer whom you could refer to?'

'There are only two persons in this country who know anything of me,' replied the prisoner.
'One is a plain Liddesdale sheep- farmer, called Dinmont of Charlie's Hope; but he knows nothing
more of me than what I told him, and what I now tell you.'

'Why, this is well enough, Sir Robert!' said Glossin. 'I suppose he would bring forward this
thick-skulled fellow to give his oath of credulity, Sir Robert, ha, ha, ha!'

'And what is your other witness, friend?' said the Baronet.

'A gentleman whom I have some reluctance to mention because of certain private reasons, but
under whose command I served some time in India, and who is too much a man of honour to refuse
his testimony to my character as a soldier and gentleman.'

'And who is this doughty witness, pray, sir?' said Sir Robert,' some half-pay quartermaster
or sergeant, I suppose?'

'Colonel Guy Mannering, late of the---regiment, in which, as I told you, I have a troop.'

'Colonel Guy Mannering!' thought Glossin, 'who the devil could have guessed this?'

'Colonel Guy Mannering?' echoed the Baronet, considerably shaken in his opinion. 'My good sir,'
apart to Glossin, 'the young man with a dreadfully plebeian name and a good deal of modest
assurance has nevertheless something of the tone and manners and feeling of a gentleman, of
one at least who has lived in good society; they do give commissions very loosely and carelessly
and inaccurately in India. I think we had better pause till Colonel Mannering shall return;
he is now, I believe, at Edinburgh.'

'You are in every respect the best judge, Sir Robert,' answered Glossin--'in every possible
respect. I would only submit to you that we are certainly hardly entitled to dismiss this man
upon an assertion which cannot be satisfied by proof, and that we shall incur a heavy responsibility
by detaining him in private custody, without committing him to a public jail. Undoubtedly,
however, you are the best judge, Sir Robert; and I would only say, for my own part, that I
very lately incurred severe censure by detaining a person in a place which I thought perfectly
secure, and under the custody of the proper officers. The man made his escape, and I have no
doubt my own character for attention and circumspection as a magistrate has in some degree
suffered. I only hint this: I will join in any step you, Sir Robert, think most advisable.'
But Mr. Glossin was well aware that such a hint was of power sufficient to decide the motions
of his self-important but not self-relying colleague. So that Sir Robert Hazlewood summed up
the business in the following speech, which proceeded partly upon the supposition of the prisoner
being really a gentleman, and partly upon the opposite belief that he was a villain and an
assassin:--

'Sir, Mr. Vanbeest Brown--I would call you Captain Brown if there was the least reason or cause
or grounds to suppose that you are a captain, or had a troop in the very respectable corps
you mention, or indeed in any other corps in his Majesty's service, as to which circumstance
I beg to be understood to give no positive, settled, or unalterable judgment, declaration,
or opinion,--I say, therefore, sir, Mr. Brown, we have determined, considering the unpleasant
predicament in which you now stand, having been robbed, as you say, an assertion as to which
I suspend my opinion, and being possessed of much and valuable treasure, and of a brass- handled
cutlass besides, as to your obtaining which you will favour us with no explanation,--I say,
sir, we have determined and resolved and made up our minds to commit you to jail, or rather
to assign you an apartment therein, in order that you may be forthcoming upon Colonel Mannering's
return from Edinburgh.'

'With humble submission, Sir Robert,' said Glossin, 'may I inquire if it is your purpose to
send this young gentleman to the county jail? For if that were not your settled intention,
I would take the liberty to hint that there would be less hardship in sending him to the bridewell
at Portanferry, where he can be secured without public exposure, a circumstance which, on the
mere chance of his story being really true, is much to be avoided.'

'Why, there is a guard of soldiers at Portanferry, to be sure, for protection of the goods
in the custom-house; and upon the whole, considering everything, and that the place is comfortable
for such a place, I say, all things considered, we will commit this person, I would rather
say authorise him to be detained, in the workhouse at Portanferry.'

The warrant was made out accordingly, and Bertram was informed he was next morning to be removed
to his place of confinement, as Sir Robert had determined he should not be taken there under
cloud of night, for fear of rescue. He was during the interval to be detained at Hazlewood House.

'It cannot be so hard as my imprisonment by the looties in India,' he thought; 'nor can it
last so long. But the deuce take the old formal dunderhead, and his more sly associate, who
speaks always under his breath; they cannot understand a plain man's story when it is told them.'

In the meanwhile Glossin took leave of the Baronet with a thousand respectful bows and cringing
apologies for not accepting his invitation to dinner, and venturing to hope he might be pardoned
in paying his respects to him, Lady Hazlewood, and young Mr. Hazlewood on some future occasion.

'Certainly, sir,' said the Baronet, very graciously. 'I hope our family was never at any time
deficient in civility to our neighbours; and when I ride that way, good Mr. Glossin, I will
convince you of this by calling at your house as familiarly as is consistent--that is, as can
be hoped or expected.'

'And now,' said Glossin to himself, 'to find Dirk Hatteraick and his people, to get the guard
sent off from the custom-house; and then for the grand cast of the dice. Everything must depend
upon speed. How lucky that Mannering has betaken himself to Edinburgh! His knowledge of this
young fellow is a most perilous addition to my dangers.' Here he suffered his horse to slacken
his pace. 'What if I should try to compound with the heir? It's likely he might be brought
to pay a round sum for restitution, and I could give up Hatteraick. But no, no, no! there were
too many eyes on me-- Hatteraick himself, and the gipsy sailor, and that old hag. No, no! I
must stick to my original plan.' And with that he struck his spurs against his horse's flanks,
and rode forward at a hard trot to put his machines in motion.

CHAPTER XLIV

     A prison is a house of care,
     A place where none can thrive,
     A touchstone true to try a friend,
     A grave for one alive
     Sometimes a place of right,
     Sometimes a place of wrong,
     Sometimes a place of rogues and thieves,
     And honest men among

          Inscription on Edinburgh Tolbooth

Early on the following morning the carriage which had brought Bertram to Hazlewood House was,
with his two silent and surly attendants, appointed to convey him to his place of confinement
at Portanferry. This building adjoined to the custom-house established at that little seaport,
and both were situated so close to the sea-beach that it was necessary to defend the back part
with a large and strong rampart or bulwark of huge stones, disposed in a slope towards the
surf, which often reached and broke upon them. The front was surrounded by a high wall, enclosing
a small courtyard, within which the miserable inmates of the mansion were occasionally permitted
to take exercise and air. The prison was used as a house of correction, and sometimes as a
chapel of ease to the county jail, which was old, and far from being conveniently situated
with reference to the Kippletringan district of the county. Mac-Guffog, the officer by whom
Bertram had at first been apprehended, and who was now in attendance upon him, was keeper of
this palace of little-ease. He caused the carriage to be drawn close up to the outer gate,
and got out himself to summon the warders. The noise of his rap alarmed some twenty or thirty
ragged boys, who left off sailing their mimic sloops and frigates in the little pools of salt
water left by the receding tide, and hastily crowded round the vehicle to see what luckless
being was to be delivered to the prison-house out of 'Glossin's braw new carriage.' The door
of the courtyard, after the heavy clanking of many chains and bars, was opened by Mrs. Mac-Guffog--an
awful spectacle, being a woman for strength and resolution capable of maintaining order among
her riotous inmates, and of administering the discipline of the house, as it was called, during
the absence of her husband, or when he chanced to have taken an overdose of the creature. The
growling voice of this Amazon, which rivalled in harshness the crashing music of her own bolts
and bars, soon dispersed in every direction the little varlets who had thronged around her
threshold, and she next addressed her amiable helpmate:--

'Be sharp, man, and get out the swell, canst thou not?'

'Hold your tongue and be d-d, you--,' answered her loving husband, with two additional epithets
of great energy, but which we beg to be excused from repeating. Then addressing Bertram--'Come,
will you get out, my handy lad, or must we lend you a lift?'

Bertram came out of the carriage, and, collared by the constable as he put his foot on the
ground, was dragged, though he offered no resistance, across the threshold, amid the continued
shouts of the little sansculottes, who looked on at such distance as their fear of Mrs. Mac-Guffog
permitted. The instant his foot had crossed the fatal porch, the portress again dropped her
chains, drew her bolts, and, turning with both hands an immense key, took it from the lock
and thrust it into a huge side-pocket of red cloth.

Bertram was now in the small court already mentioned. Two or three prisoners were sauntering
along the pavement, and deriving as it were a feeling of refreshment from the momentary glimpse
with which the opening door had extended their prospect to the other side of a dirty street.
Nor can this be thought surprising, when it is considered that, unless on such occasions, their
view was confined to the grated front of their prison, the high and sable walls of the courtyard,
the heaven above them, and the pavement beneath their feet--a sameness of landscape which,
to use the poet's expression, 'lay like a load on the wearied eye,' and had fostered in some
a callous and dull misanthropy, in others that sickness of the heart which induces him who
is immured already in a living grave to wish for a sepulchre yet more calm and sequestered.

Mac-Guffog, when they entered the courtyard, suffered Bertram to pause for a minute and look
upon his companions in affliction. When he had cast his eye around on faces on which guilt
and despondence and low excess had fixed their stigma--upon the spendthrift, and the swindler,
and the thief, the bankrupt debtor, the 'moping idiot, and the madman gay,' whom a paltry spirit
of economy congregated to share this dismal habitation, he felt his heart recoil with inexpressible
loathing from enduring the contamination of their society even for a moment.

'I hope, sir,' he said to the keeper, 'you intend to assign me a place of confinement apart?'

'And what should I be the better of that?'

'Why, sir, I can but be detained here a day or two, and it would be very disagreeable to me
to mix in the sort of company this place affords.'

'And what do I care for that?'

'Why then, sir, to speak to your feelings,' said Bertram, 'I shall be willing to make you a
handsome compliment for this indulgence.'

'Ay, but when, Captain? when and how? that's the question, or rather the twa questions,' said
the jailor.

'When I am delivered, and get my remittances from England,' answered the prisoner.

Mac-Guffog shook his head incredulously.

'Why, friend, you do not pretend to believe that I am really a malefactor?' said Bertram.

'Why, I no ken,' said the fellow; 'but if you ARE on the account, ye're nae sharp ane, that's
the daylight o't.'

'And why do you say I am no sharp one?'

'Why, wha but a crack-brained greenhorn wad hae let them keep up the siller that ye left at
the Gordon Arms?' said the constable. 'Deil fetch me, but I wad have had it out o' their wames!
Ye had nae right to be strippit o' your money and sent to jail without a mark to pay your fees;
they might have keepit the rest o' the articles for evidence. But why, for a blind bottle-head,
did not ye ask the guineas? and I kept winking and nodding a' the time, and the donnert deevil
wad never ance look my way!'

'Well, sir,' replied Bertram, 'if I have a title to have that property delivered up to me,
I shall apply for it; and there is a good deal more than enough to pay any demand you can set up.'

'I dinna ken a bit about that,' said Mac-Guffog; 'ye may be here lang eneugh. And then the
gieing credit maun be considered in the fees. But, however, as ye DO seem to be a chap by common,
though my wife says I lose by my good-nature, if ye gie me an order for my fees upon that money
I daresay Glossin will make it forthcoming; I ken something about an escape from Ellangowan.
Ay, ay, he'll be glad to carry me through, and be neighbour-like.'

'Well, sir,' replied Bertram, 'if I am not furnished in a day or two otherwise, you shall have
such an order.'

'Weel, weel, then ye shall be put up like a prince,' said Mac- Guffog. 'But mark ye me, friend,
that we may have nae colly- shangie afterhend, these are the fees that I always charge a swell
that must have his lib-ken to himsell:--Thirty shillings a week for lodgings, and a guinea
for garnish; half a guinea a week for a single bed; and I dinna get the whole of it, for I
must gie half a crown out of it to Donald Laider that's in for sheep-stealing, that should
sleep with you by rule, and he'll expect clean strae, and maybe some whisky beside. So I make
little upon that.'

'Well, sir, go on.'

'Then for meat and liquor, ye may have the best, and I never charge abune twenty per cent ower
tavern price for pleasing a gentleman that way; and that's little eneugh for sending in and
sending out, and wearing the lassie's shoon out. And then if ye're dowie I will sit wi' you
a gliff in the evening mysell, man, and help ye out wi' your bottle. I have drank mony a glass
wi' Glossin, man, that did you up, though he's a justice now. And then I'se warrant ye'll be
for fire thir cauld nights, or if ye want candle, that's an expensive article, for it's against
the rules. And now I've tell'd ye the head articles of the charge, and I dinna think there's
muckle mair, though there will aye be some odd expenses ower and abune.'

'Well, sir, I must trust to your conscience, if ever you happened to hear of such a thing;
I cannot help myself.'

'Na, na, sir,' answered the cautious jailor, 'I'll no permit you to be saying that. I'm forcing
naething upon ye; an ye dinna like the price, ye needna take the article. I force no man; I
was only explaining what civility was. But if ye like to take the common run of the house,
it's a' ane to me; I'll be saved trouble, that's a'.'

'Nay, my friend, I have, as I suppose you may easily guess, no inclination to dispute your
terms upon such a penalty,' answered Bertram. 'Come, show me where I am to be, for I would
fain be alone for a little while.'

'Ay, ay, come along then, Captain,' said the fellow, with a contortion of visage which he intended
to be a smile; 'and I'll tell you now--to show you that I HAVE a conscience, as ye ca't --d--n
me if I charge ye abune six-pence a day for the freedom o' the court, and ye may walk in't
very near three hours a day, and play at pitch-and-toss and hand ba' and what not.'

With this gracious promise he ushered Bertram into the house, and showed him up a steep and
narrow stone staircase, at the top of which was a strong door, clenched with iron and studded
with nails. Beyond this door was a narrow passage or gallery, having three cells on each side,
wretched vaults, with iron bed-frames and straw mattresses. But at the farther end was a small
apartment of rather a more decent appearance, that is, having less the air of a place of confinement,
since, unless for the large lock and chain upon the door, and the crossed and ponderous stanchions
upon the window, it rather resembled the 'worst inn's worst room.' It was designed as a sort
of infirmary for prisoners whose state of health required some indulgence; and, in fact, Donald
Laider, Bertram's destined chum, had been just dragged out of one of the two beds which it
contained, to try whether clean straw and whisky might not have a better chance to cure his
intermitting fever. This process of ejection had been carried into force by Mrs. Mac- Guffog
while her husband parleyed with Bertram in the courtyard, that good lady having a distinct
presentiment of the manner in which the treaty must necessarily terminate. Apparently the expulsion
had not taken place without some application of the strong hand, for one of the bed-posts of
a sort of tent-bed was broken down, so that the tester and curtains hung forward into the middle
of the narrow chamber, like the banner of a chieftain half- sinking amid the confusion of a combat.

'Never mind that being out o' sorts, Captain,' said Mrs. Mac- Guffog, who now followed them
into the room; then, turning her back to the prisoner, with as much delicacy as the action
admitted, she whipped from her knee her ferret garter, and applied it to splicing and fastening
the broken bed-post; then used more pins than her apparel could well spare to fasten up the
bed- curtains in festoons; then shook the bed-clothes into something like form; then flung
over all a tattered patch-work quilt, and pronounced that things were now 'something purpose-like.'
'And there's your bed, Captain,' pointing to a massy four-posted hulk, which, owing to the
inequality of the floor, that had sunk considerably (the house, though new, having been built
by contract), stood on three legs, and held the fourth aloft as if pawing the air, and in the
attitude of advancing like an elephant passant upon the panel of a coach,--'there's your bed
and the blankets; but if ye want sheets, or bowster, or pillow, or ony sort o' nappery for
the table, or for your hands, ye'll hae to speak to me about it, for that's out o' the gudeman's
line (Mac- Guffog had by this time left the room, to avoid, probably, any appeal which might
be made to him upon this new exaction), and he never engages for ony thing like that.'

'In God's name,' said Bertram, 'let me have what is decent, and make any charge you please.'

'Aweel, aweel, that's sune settled; we'll no excise you neither, though we live sae near the
custom-house. And I maun see to get you some fire and some dinner too, I'se warrant; but your
dinner will be but a puir ane the day, no expecting company that would be nice and fashious.'
So saying, and in all haste, Mrs. Mac-Guffog fetched a scuttle of live coals, and having replenished
'the rusty grate, unconscious of a fire' for months before, she proceeded with unwashed hands
to arrange the stipulated bed-linen (alas, how different from Ailie Dinmont's!), and, muttering
to herself as she discharged her task, seemed, in inveterate spleen of temper, to grudge even
those accommodations for which she was to receive payment. At length, however, she departed,
grumbling between her teeth, that 'she wad rather lock up a haill ward than be fiking about
thae niff-naffy gentles that gae sae muckle fash wi' their fancies.'

When she was gone Bertram found himself reduced to the alternative of pacing his little apartment
for exercise, or gazing out upon the sea in such proportions as could be seen from the narrow
panes of his window, obscured by dirt and by close iron bars, or reading over the records of
brutal wit and blackguardism which despair had scrawled upon the half-whitened walls. The sounds
were as uncomfortable as the objects of sight; the sullen dash of the tide, which was now retreating,
and the occasional opening and shutting of a door, with all its accompaniments of jarring bolts
and creaking hinges, mingling occasionally with the dull monotony of the retiring ocean. Sometimes,
too, he could hear the hoarse growl of the keeper, or the shriller strain of his helpmate,
almost always in the tone of discontent, anger, or insolence. At other times the large mastiff
chained in the courtyard answered with furious bark the insults of the idle loiterers who made
a sport of incensing him.

At length the tedium of this weary space was broken by the entrance of a dirty-looking serving-wench,
who made some preparations for dinner by laying a half-dirty cloth upon a whole- dirty deal
table. A knife and fork, which had not been worn out by overcleaning, flanked a cracked delf
plate; a nearly empty mustard-pot, placed on one side of the table, balanced a salt- cellar,
containing an article of a greyish, or rather a blackish, mixture, upon the other, both of
stoneware, and bearing too obvious marks of recent service. Shortly after, the same Hebe brought
up a plate of beef-collops, done in the frying-pan, with a huge allowance of grease floating
in an ocean of lukewarm water; and, having added a coarse loaf to these savoury viands, she
requested to know what liquors the gentleman chose to order. The appearance of this fare was
not very inviting; but Bertram endeavoured to mend his commons by ordering wine, which he found
tolerably good, and, with the assistance of some indifferent cheese, made his dinner chiefly
off the brown loaf. When his meal was over the girl presented her master's compliments, and,
if agreeable to the gentleman, he would help him to spend the evening. Bertram desired to be
excused, and begged, instead of this gracious society, that he might be furnished with paper,
pen, ink, and candles. The light appeared in the shape of one long broken tallow-candle, inclining
over a tin candlestick coated with grease; as for the writing materials, the prisoner was informed
that he might have them the next day if he chose to send out to buy them. Bertram next desired
the maid to procure him a book, and enforced his request with a shilling; in consequence of
which, after long absence, she reappeared with two odd volumes of the 'Newgate Calendar,' which
she had borrowed from Sam Silverquill, an idle apprentice, who was imprisoned under a charge
of forgery. Having laid the books on the table she retired, and left Bertram to studies which
were not ill adapted to his present melancholy situation.

CHAPTER XLV

     But if thou shouldst be dragg'd in scorn
       To yonder ignominious tree,
     Thou shall not want one faithful friend
       To share the cruel fates' decree.

          SHENSTONE.

Plunged in the gloomy reflections which were naturally excited by his dismal reading and disconsolate
situation, Bertram for the first time in his life felt himself affected with a disposition
to low spirits. 'I have been in worse situations than this too,' he said; 'more dangerous,
for here is no danger; more dismal in prospect, for my present confinement must necessarily
be short; more intolerable for the time, for here, at least, I have fire, food, and shelter.
Yet, with reading these bloody tales of crime and misery in a place so corresponding to the
ideas which they excite, and in listening to these sad sounds, I feel a stronger disposition
to melancholy than in my life I ever experienced. But I will not give way to it. Begone, thou
record of guilt and infamy!' he said, flinging the book upon the spare bed; 'a Scottish jail
shall not break, on the very first day, the spirits which have resisted climate, and want,
and penury, and disease, and imprisonment in a foreign land. I have fought many a hard battle
with Dame Fortune, and she shall not beat me now if I can help it.'

Then bending his mind to a strong effort, he endeavoured to view his situation in the most
favourable light. Delaserre must soon be in Scotland; the certificates from his commanding
officer must soon arrive; nay, if Mannering were first applied to, who could say but the effect
might be a reconciliation between them? He had often observed, and now remembered, that when
his former colonel took the part of any one, it was never by halves, and that he seemed to
love those persons most who had lain under obligation to him. In the present case a favour,
which could be asked with honour and granted with readiness, might be the means of reconciling
them to each other. From this his feelings naturally turned towards Julia; and, without very
nicely measuring the distance between a soldier of fortune, who expected that her father's
attestation would deliver him from confinement, and the heiress of that father's wealth and
expectations, he was building the gayest castle in the clouds, and varnishing it with all the
tints of a summer-evening sky, when his labour was interrupted by a loud knocking at the outer
gate, answered by the barking of the gaunt half-starved mastiff which was quartered in the
courtyard as an addition to the garrison. After much scrupulous precaution the gate was opened
and some person admitted. The house-door was next unbarred, unlocked, and unchained, a dog's
feet pattered upstairs in great haste, and the animal was heard scratching and whining at the
door of the room. Next a heavy step was heard lumbering up, and Mac-Guffog's voice in the character
of pilot--'This way, this way; take care of the step; that's the room.' Bertram's door was
then unbolted, and to his great surprise and joy his terrier, Wasp, rushed into the apartment
and almost devoured him with caresses, followed by the massy form of his friend from Charlie's
Hope.

'Eh whow! Eh whow!' ejaculated the honest farmer, as he looked round upon his friend's miserable
apartment and wretched accommodation--'What's this o't! what's this o't!'

'Just a trick of fortune, my good friend,' said Bertram, rising and shaking him heartily by
the hand, 'that's all.'

'But what will be done about it? or what CAN be done about it?' said honest Dandie. 'Is't for
debt, or what is't for?'

'Why, it is not for debt,' answered Bertram; 'and if you have time to sit down, I'll tell you
all I know of the matter myself.'

'If I hae time?' said Dandie, with an accent on the word that sounded like a howl of derision.
'Ou, what the deevil am I come here for, man, but just ance errand to see about it? But ye'll
no be the waur o' something to eat, I trow; it's getting late at e'en. I tell'd the folk at
the Change, where I put up Dumple, to send ower my supper here, and the chield Mac-Guffog is
agreeable to let it in; I hae settled a' that. And now let's hear your story. Whisht, Wasp,
man! wow, but he's glad to see you, poor thing!'

Bertram's story, being confined to the accident of Hazlewood, and the confusion made between
his own identity and that of one of the smugglers who had been active in the assault of Woodbourne,
and chanced to bear the same name, was soon told. Dinmont listened very attentively. 'Aweel,'
he said, 'this suld be nae sic dooms desperate business surely; the lad's doing weel again
that was hurt, and what signifies twa or three lead draps in his shouther? if ye had putten
out his ee it would hae been another case. But eh, as I wuss auld Sherra Pleydell was to the
fore here! Od, he was the man for sorting them, and the queerest rough-spoken deevil too that
ever ye heard!'

'But now tell me, my excellent friend, how did you find out I was here?'

'Od, lad, queerly eneugh,' said Dandie; 'but I'll tell ye that after we are done wi' our supper,
for it will maybe no be sae weel to speak about it while that lang-lugged limmer o' a lass
is gaun flisking in and out o' the room.'

Bertram's curiosity was in some degree put to rest by the appearance of the supper which his
friend had ordered, which, although homely enough, had the appetising cleanliness in which
Mrs. Mac-Guffog's cookery was so eminently deficient. Dinmont also, premising he had ridden
the whole day since breakfast-time without tasting anything 'to speak of,' which qualifying
phrase related to about three pounds of cold roast mutton which he had discussed at his mid-day
stage--Dinmont, I say, fell stoutly upon the good cheer, and, like one of Homer's heroes, said
little, either good or bad, till the rage of thirst and hunger was appeased. At length, after
a draught of home-brewed ale, he began by observing, 'Aweel, aweel, that hen,' looking upon
the lamentable relics of what had been once a large fowl, 'wasna a bad ane to be bred at a
town end, though it's no like our barn-door chuckies at Charlie's Hope; and I am glad to see
that this vexing job hasna taen awa your appetite, Captain.'

'Why, really, my dinner was not so excellent, Mr. Dinmont, as to spoil my supper.'

'I daresay no, I daresay no,' said Dandie. 'But now, hinny, that ye hae brought us the brandy,
and the mug wi' the het water, and the sugar, and a' right, ye may steek the door, ye see,
for we wad hae some o' our ain cracks.' The damsel accordingly retired and shut the door of
the apartment, to which she added the precaution of drawing a large bolt on the outside.

As soon as she was gone Dandie reconnoitred the premises, listened at the key-hole as if he
had been listening for the blowing of an otter, and, having satisfied himself that there were
no eavesdroppers, returned to the table; and, making himself what he called a gey stiff cheerer,
poked the fire, and began his story in an undertone of gravity and importance not very usual
with him.

'Ye see, Captain, I had been in Edinbro' for twa or three days, looking after the burial of
a friend that we hae lost, and maybe I suld hae had something for my ride; but there's disappointments
in a' things, and wha can help the like o' that? And I had a wee bit law business besides,
but that's neither here nor there. In short, I had got my matters settled, and hame I cam;
and the morn awa to the muirs to see what the herds had been about, and I thought I might as
weel gie a look to the Touthope Head, where Jock o' Dawston and me has the outcast about a
march. Weel, just as I was coming upon the bit, I saw a man afore me that I kenn'd was nane
o' our herds, and it's a wild bit to meet ony other body, so when I cam up to him it was Tod
Gabriel, the fox-hunter. So I says to him, rather surprised like, "What are ye doing up amang
the craws here, without your hounds, man? are ye seeking the fox without the dogs?" So he said,
"Na, gudeman, but I wanted to see yoursell."

'"Ay," said I, "and ye'll be wanting eilding now, or something to pit ower the winter?"

'"Na, na," quo' he, "it's no that I'm seeking; but ye tak an unco concern in that Captain Brown
that was staying wi' you, d'ye no?"

'"Troth do I, Gabriel," says I; "and what about him, lad?"

'Says he, "There's mair tak an interest in him than you, and some that I am bound to obey;
and it's no just on my ain will that I'm here to tell you something about him that will no
please you."

'"Faith, naething will please me," quo' I, "that's no pleasing to him."

'"And then," quo' he, "ye'll be ill-sorted to hear that he's like to be in the prison at Portanferry,
if he disna tak a' the better care o' himsell, for there's been warrants out to tak him as
soon as he comes ower the water frae Allonby. And now, gudeman, an ever ye wish him weel, ye
maun ride down to Portanferry, and let nae grass grow at the nag's heels; and if ye find him
in confinement, ye maun stay beside him night and day for a day or twa, for he'll want friends
that hae baith heart and hand; and if ye neglect this ye'll never rue but ance, for it will
be for a' your life."

'"But, safe us, man," quo' I, "how did ye learn a' this? it's an unco way between this and
Portanferry."

'"Never ye mind that," quo' he, "them that brought us the news rade night and day, and ye maun
be aff instantly if ye wad do ony gude; and sae I have naething mair to tell ye." Sae he sat
himsell doun and hirselled doun into the glen, where it wad hae been ill following him wi'
the beast, and I cam back to Charlie's Hope to tell the gudewife, for I was uncertain what
to do. It wad look unco-like, I thought, just to be sent out on a hunt-the-gowk errand wi'
a landlouper like that. But, Lord! as the gudewife set up her throat about it, and said what
a shame it wad be if ye was to come to ony wrang, an I could help ye; and then in cam your
letter that confirmed it. So I took to the kist, and out wi' the pickle notes in case they
should be needed, and a' the bairns ran to saddle Dumple. By great luck I had taen the other
beast to Edinbro', sae Dumple was as fresh as a rose. Sae aff I set, and Wasp wi' me, for ye
wad really hae thought he kenn'd where I was gaun, puir beast; and here I am after a trot o'
sixty mile or near by. But Wasp rade thirty o' them afore me on the saddle, and the puir doggie
balanced itsell as ane of the weans wad hae dune, whether I trotted or cantered.'

In this strange story Bertram obviously saw, supposing the warning to be true, some intimation
of danger more violent and imminent than could be likely to arise from a few days' imprisonment.
At the same time it was equally evident that some unknown friend was working in his behalf.
'Did you not say,' he asked Dinmont, 'that this man Gabriel was of gipsy blood?'

'It was e'en judged sae,' said Dinmont, 'and I think this maks it likely; for they aye ken
where the gangs o' ilk ither are to be found, and they can gar news flee like a footba' through
the country an they like. An' I forgat to tell ye, there's been an unco inquiry after the auld
wife that we saw in Bewcastle; the Sheriff's had folk ower the Limestane Edge after her, and
down the Hermitage and Liddel, and a' gates, and a reward offered for her to appear o' fifty
pound sterling, nae less; and Justice Forster, he's had out warrants, as I am tell'd, in Cumberland;
and an unco ranging and ripeing they have had a' gates seeking for her; but she'll no be taen
wi' them unless she likes, for a' that.'

'And how comes that?' said Bertram.

'Ou, I dinna ken; I daur say it's nonsense, but they say she has gathered the fern-seed, and
can gang ony gate she likes, like Jock the Giant-killer in the ballant, wi' his coat o' darkness
and his shoon o' swiftness. Ony way she's a kind o' queen amang the gipsies; she is mair than
a hundred year auld, folk say, and minds the coming in o' the moss-troopers in the troublesome
times when the Stuarts were put awa. Sae, if she canna hide hersell, she kens them that can
hide her weel eneugh, ye needna doubt that. Od, an I had kenn'd it had been Meg Merrilies yon
night at Tibb Mumps's, I wad taen care how I crossed her.'

Bertram listened with great attention to this account, which tallied so well in many points
with what he had himself seen of this gipsy sibyl. After a moment's consideration he concluded
it would be no breach of faith to mention what he had seen at Derncleugh to a person who held
Meg in such reverence as Dinmont obviously did. He told his story accordingly, often interrupted
by ejaculations, such as, 'Weel, the like o' that now!' or, 'Na, deil an that's no something now!'

When our Liddesdale friend had heard the whole to an end, he shook his great black head--'Weel,
I'll uphaud there's baith gude and ill amang the gipsies, and if they deal wi' the Enemy, it's
a' their ain business and no ours. I ken what the streeking the corpse wad be, weel eneugh.
Thae smuggler deevils, when ony o' them's killed in a fray, they'll send for a wife like Meg
far eneugh to dress the corpse; od, it's a' the burial they ever think o'! and then to be put
into the ground without ony decency, just like dogs. But they stick to it, that they'll be
streekit, and hae an auld wife when they're dying to rhyme ower prayers, and ballants, and
charms, as they ca' them, rather than they'll hae a minister to come and pray wi' them--that's
an auld threep o' theirs; and I am thinking the man that died will hae been ane o' the folk
that was shot when they burnt Woodbourne.'

'But, my good friend, Woodbourne is not burnt,' said Bertram.

'Weel, the better for them that bides in't,' answered the store- farmer. 'Od, we had it up
the water wi' us that there wasna a stane on the tap o' anither. But there was fighting, ony
way; I daur to say it would be fine fun! And, as I said, ye may take it on trust that that's
been ane o' the men killed there, and that it's been the gipsies that took your pockmanky when
they fand the chaise stickin' in the snaw; they wadna pass the like o' that, it wad just come
to their hand like the bowl o' a pint stoup.'

'But if this woman is a sovereign among them, why was she not able to afford me open protection,
and to get me back my property?'

'Ou, wha kens? she has muckle to say wi' them, but whiles they'll tak their ain way for a'
that, when they're under temptation. And then there's the smugglers that they're aye leagued
wi', she maybe couldna manage them sae weel. They're aye banded thegither; I've heard that
the gipsies ken when the smugglers will come aff, and where they're to land, better than the
very merchants that deal wi' them. And then, to the boot o' that, she's whiles cracked- brained,
and has a bee in her head; they say that, whether her spaeings and fortune-tellings be true
or no, for certain she believes in them a' hersell, and is aye guiding hersell by some queer
prophecy or anither. So she disna aye gang the straight road to the well. But deil o' sic a
story as yours, wi' glamour and dead folk and losing ane's gate, I ever heard out o' the tale-
books! But whisht, I hear the keeper coming.'

Mac-Guffog accordingly interrupted their discourse by the harsh harmony of the bolts and bars,
and showed his bloated visage at the opening door. 'Come, Mr. Dinmont, we have put off locking
up for an hour to oblige ye; ye must go to your quarters.'

'Quarters, man? I intend to sleep here the night. There's a spare bed in the Captain's room.'

'It's impossible!' answered the keeper.

'But I say it IS possible, and that I winna stir; and there's a dram t' ye.'

Mac-Guffog drank off the spirits and resumed his objection. 'But it's against rule, sir; ye
have committed nae malefaction.'

'I'll break your head,' said the sturdy Liddesdale man, 'if ye say ony mair about it, and that
will be malefaction eneugh to entitle me to ae night's lodging wi' you, ony way.'

'But I tell ye, Mr. Dinmont,' reiterated the keeper, 'it's against rule, and I behoved to lose
my post.'

'Weel, Mac-Guffog,' said Dandie, 'I hae just twa things to say. Ye ken wha I am weel eneugh,
and that I wadna loose a prisoner.'

'And how do I ken that?' answered the jailor.

'Weel, if ye dinna ken that,' said the resolute farmer, 'ye ken this: ye ken ye're whiles obliged
to be up our water in the way o' your business. Now, if ye let me stay quietly here the night
wi' the Captain, I'se pay ye double fees for the room; and if ye say no, ye shall hae the best
sark-fu' o' sair banes that ever ye had in your life the first time ye set a foot by Liddel Moat!'

'Aweel, aweel, gudeman,' said Mac-Guffog, 'a wilfu' man maun hae his way; but if I am challenged
for it by the justices, I ken wha sall bear the wyte,' and, having sealed this observation
with a deep oath or two, he retired to bed, after carefully securing all the doors of the bridewell.
The bell from the town steeple tolled nine just as the ceremony was concluded.

'Although it's but early hours,' said the farmer, who had observed that his friend looked somewhat
pale and fatigued, 'I think we had better lie down, Captain, if ye're no agreeable to another
cheerer. But troth, ye're nae glass-breaker; and neither am I, unless it be a screed wi' the
neighbours, or when I'm on a ramble.'

Bertram readily assented to the motion of his faithful friend, but, on looking at the bed,
felt repugnance to trust himself undressed to Mrs. Mac-Guffog's clean sheets.

'I'm muckle o' your opinion, Captain,' said Dandie. 'Od, this bed looks as if a' the colliers
in Sanquhar had been in't thegither. But it'll no win through my muckle coat.' So saying, he
flung himself upon the frail bed with a force that made all its timbers crack, and in a few
moments gave audible signal that he was fast asleep. Bertram slipped off his coat and boots
and occupied the other dormitory. The strangeness of his destiny, and the mysteries which appeared
to thicken around him, while he seemed alike to be persecuted and protected by secret enemies
and friends, arising out of a class of people with whom he had no previous connexion, for some
time occupied his thoughts. Fatigue, however, gradually composed his mind, and in a short time
he was as fast asleep as his companion. And in this comfortable state of oblivion we must leave
them until we acquaint the reader with some other circumstances which occurred about the same
period.

CHAPTER XLVI

     Say from whence
     You owe this strange intelligence? or why
     Upon this blasted heath you stop our way
     With such prophetic greeting?
     Speak, I charge you.

          Macbeth.

Upon the evening of the day when Bertram's examination had taken place, Colonel Mannering arrived
at Woodbourne from Edinburgh. He found his family in their usual state, which probably, so
far as Julia was concerned, would not have been the case had she learned the news of Bertram's
arrest. But as, during the Colonel's absence, the two young ladies lived much retired, this
circumstance fortunately had not reached Woodbourne. A letter had already made Miss Bertram
acquainted with the downfall of the expectations which had been formed upon the bequest of
her kinswoman. Whatever hopes that news might have dispelled, the disappointment did not prevent
her from joining her friend in affording a cheerful reception to the Colonel, to whom she thus
endeavoured to express the deep sense she entertained of his paternal kindness. She touched
on her regret that at such a season of the year he should have made, upon her account, a journey
so fruitless.

'That it was fruitless to you, my dear,' said the Colonel, 'I do most deeply lament; but for
my own share, I have made some valuable acquaintances, and have spent the time I have been
absent in Edinburgh with peculiar satisfaction; so that on that score there is nothing to be
regretted. Even our friend the Dominie is returned thrice the man he was, from having sharpened
his wits in controversy with the geniuses of the northern metropolis.'

'Of a surety,' said the Dominie, with great complacency, 'I did wrestle, and was not overcome,
though my adversary was cunning in his art.'

'I presume,' said Miss Mannering, 'the contest was somewhat fatiguing, Mr. Sampson?'

'Very much, young lady; howbeit I girded up my loins and strove against him.'

'I can bear witness,' said the Colonel; 'I never saw an affair better contested. The enemy
was like the Mahratta cavalry: he assailed on all sides, and presented no fair mark for artillery;
but Mr. Sampson stood to his guns notwithstanding, and fired away, now upon the enemy and now
upon the dust which he had raised. But we must not fight our battles over again to-night; to-morrow
we shall have the whole at breakfast.'

The next morning at breakfast, however, the Dominie did not make his appearance. He had walked
out, a servant said, early in the morning. It was so common for him to forget his meals that
his absence never deranged the family. The housekeeper, a decent old- fashioned Presbyterian
matron, having, as such, the highest respect for Sampson's theological acquisitions, had it
in charge on these occasions to take care that he was no sufferer by his absence of mind, and
therefore usually waylaid him on his return, to remind him of his sublunary wants, and to minister
to their relief. It seldom, however, happened that he was absent from two meals together, as
was the case in the present instance. We must explain the cause of this unusual occurrence.

The conversation which Mr. Pleydell had held with Mr. Mannering on the subject of the loss
of Harry Bertram had awakened all the painful sensations which that event had inflicted upon
Sampson. The affectionate heart of the poor Dominie had always reproached him that his negligence
in leaving the child in the care of Frank Kennedy had been the proximate cause of the murder
of the one, the loss of the other, the death of Mrs. Bertram, and the ruin of the family of
his patron. It was a subject which he never conversed upon, if indeed his mode of speech could
be called conversation at any time; but it was often present to his imagination. The sort of
hope so strongly affirmed and asserted in Mrs. Bertram's last settlement had excited a corresponding
feeling in the Dominie's bosom, which was exasperated into a sort of sickening anxiety by the
discredit with which Pleydell had treated it. 'Assuredly,' thought Sampson to himself, 'he
is a man of erudition, and well skilled in the weighty matters of the law; but he is also a
man of humorous levity and inconsistency of speech, and wherefore should he pronounce ex cathedra,
as it were, on the hope expressed by worthy Madam Margaret Bertram of Singleside?'

All this, I say, the Dominie THOUGHT to himself; for had he uttered half the sentence, his
jaws would have ached for a month under the unusual fatigue of such a continued exertion. The
result of these cogitations was a resolution to go and visit the scene of the tragedy at Warroch
Point, where he had not been for many years; not, indeed, since the fatal accident had happened.
The walk was a long one, for the Point of Warroch lay on the farther side of the Ellangowan
property, which was interposed between it and Woodbourne. Besides, the Dominie went astray
more than once, and met with brooks swoln into torrents by the melting of the snow, where he,
honest man, had only the summer recollection of little trickling rills.

At length, however, he reached the woods which he had made the object of his excursion, and
traversed them with care, muddling his disturbed brains with vague efforts to recall every
circumstance of the catastrophe. It will readily be supposed that the influence of local situation
and association was inadequate to produce conclusions different from those which he had formed
under the immediate pressure of the occurrences themselves. 'With many a weary sigh, therefore,
and many a groan,' the poor Dominie returned from his hopeless pilgrimage, and weariedly plodded
his way towards Woodbourne, debating at times in his altered mind a question which was forced
upon him by the cravings of an appetite rather of the keenest, namely, whether he had breakfasted
that morning or no? It was in this twilight humour, now thinking of the loss of the child,
then involuntarily compelled to meditate upon the somewhat incongruous subject of hung beef,
rolls, and butter, that his route, which was different from that which he had taken in the
morning, conducted him past the small ruined tower, or rather vestige of a tower, called by
the country people the Kaim of Derncleugh.

The reader may recollect the description of this ruin in the twenty-seventh chapter, as the
vault in which young Bertram, under the auspices of Meg Merrilies, witnessed the death of Hatteraick's
lieutenant. The tradition of the country added ghostly terrors to the natural awe inspired
by the situation of this place, which terrors the gipsies who so long inhabited the vicinity
had probably invented, or at least propagated, for their own advantage. It was said that, during
the times of the Galwegian independence, one Hanlon Mac-Dingawaie, brother to the reigning
chief, Knarth Mac-Dingawaie, murdered his brother and sovereign, in order to usurp the principality
from his infant nephew, and that, being pursued for vengeance by the faithful allies and retainers
of the house, who espoused the cause of the lawful heir, he was compelled to retreat, with
a few followers whom he had involved in his crime, to this impregnable tower called the Kaim
of Derucleugh, where he defended himself until nearly reduced by famine, when, setting fire
to the place, he and the small remaining garrison desperately perished by their own swords,
rather than fall into the hands of their exasperated enemies. This tragedy, which, considering
the wild times wherein it was placed, might have some foundation in truth, was larded with
many legends of superstition and diablerie, so that most of the peasants of the neighbourhood,
if benighted, would rather have chosen to make a considerable circuit than pass these haunted
walls. The lights, often seen around the tower, when used as the rendezvous of the lawless
characters by whom it was occasionally frequented, were accounted for, under authority of these
tales of witchery, in a manner at once convenient for the private parties concerned and satisfactory
to the public.

Now it must be confessed that our friend Sampson, although a profound scholar and mathematician,
had not travelled so far in philosophy as to doubt the reality of witchcraft or apparitions.
Born, indeed, at a time when a doubt in the existence of witches was interpreted as equivalent
to a justification of their infernal practices, a belief of such legends had been impressed
upon the Dominie as an article indivisible from his religious faith, and perhaps it would have
been equally difficult to have induced him to doubt the one as the other. With these feelings,
and in a thick misty day, which was already drawing to its close, Dominie Sampson did not pass
the Kaim of Derncleugh without some feelings of tacit horror.

What, then, was his astonishment when, on passing the door--that door which was supposed to
have been placed there by one of the latter Lairds of Ellangowan to prevent presumptuous strangers
from incurring the dangers of the haunted vault--that door, supposed to be always locked, and
the key of which was popularly said to be deposited with the presbytery--that door, that very
door, opened suddenly, and the figure of Meg Merrilies, well known, though not seen for many
a revolving year, was placed at once before the eyes of the startled Dominie! She stood immediately
before him in the footpath, confronting him so absolutely that he could not avoid her except
by fairly turning back, which his manhood prevented him from thinking of.

'I kenn'd ye wad be here,' she said, with her harsh and hollow voice; 'I ken wha ye seek; but
ye maun do my bidding.'

'Get thee behind me!' said the alarmed Dominie. 'Avoid ye! Conjuro te, scelestissima, nequissima,
spurcissima, iniquissima atque miserrima, conjuro te!!!'

Meg stood her ground against this tremendous volley of superlatives, which Sampson hawked up
from the pit of his stomach and hurled at her in thunder. 'Is the carl daft,' she said, 'wi'
his glamour?'

'Conjuro,' continued the Dominie, 'abjuro, contestor atque viriliter impero tibi!'

'What, in the name of Sathan, are ye feared for, wi' your French gibberish, that would make
a dog sick? Listen, ye stickit stibbler, to what I tell ye, or ye sail rue it while there's
a limb o' ye hings to anither! Tell Colonel Mannering that I ken he's seeking me. He kens,
and I ken, that the blood will be wiped out, and the lost will be found,

     And Bertram's right and Bertram's might
     Shall meet on Ellangowan height.

Hae, there's a letter to him; I was gaun to send it in another way. I canna write mysell; but
I hae them that will baith write and read, and ride and rin for me. Tell him the time's coming
now, and the weird's dreed, and the wheel's turning. Bid him look at the stars as he has looked
at them before. Will ye mind a' this?'

'Assuredly,' said the Dominie, 'I am dubious; for, woman, I am perturbed at thy words, and
my flesh quakes to hear thee.'

'They'll do you nae ill though, and maybe muckle gude.'

'Avoid ye! I desire no good that comes by unlawful means.'

'Fule body that thou art,' said Meg, stepping up to him, with a frown of indignation that made
her dark eyes flash like lamps from under her bent brows--'Fule body! if I meant ye wrang,
couldna I clod ye ower that craig, and wad man ken how ye cam by your end mair than Frank Kennedy?
Hear ye that, ye worricow?'

'In the name of all that is good,' said the Dominie, recoiling, and pointing his long pewter-headed
walking cane like a javelin at the supposed sorceress--'in the name of all that is good, bide
off hands! I will not be handled; woman, stand off, upon thine own proper peril! Desist, I
say; I am strong; lo, I will resist!' Here his speech was cut short; for Meg, armed with supernatural
strength (as the Dominie asserted), broke in upon his guard, put by a thrust which he made
at her with his cane, and lifted him into the vault, 'as easily,' said he, 'as I could sway
a Kitchen's Atlas.'

'Sit down there,' she said, pushing the half-throttled preacher with some violence against
a broken chair--'sit down there and gather your wind and your senses, ye black barrow-tram
o' the kirk that ye are. Are ye fou or fasting?'

'Fasting, from all but sin,' answered the Dominie, who, recovering his voice, and finding his
exorcisms only served to exasperate the intractable sorceress, thought it best to affect complaisance
and submission, inwardly conning over, however, the wholesome conjurations which he durst no
longer utter aloud. But as the Dominie's brain was by no means equal to carry on two trains
of ideas at the same time, a word or two of his mental exercise sometimes escaped and mingled
with his uttered speech in a manner ludicrous enough, especially as the poor man shrunk himself
together after every escape of the kind, from terror of the effect it might produce upon the
irritable feelings of the witch.

Meg in the meanwhile went to a great black cauldron that was boiling on a fire on the floor,
and, lifting the lid, an odour was diffused through the vault which, if the vapours of a witch's
cauldron could in aught be trusted, promised better things than the hell-broth which such vessels
are usually supposed to contain. It was, in fact, the savour of a goodly stew, composed of
fowls, hares, partridges, and moor-game boiled in a large mess with potatoes, onions, and leeks,
and from the size of the cauldron appeared to be prepared for half a dozen of people at least.
'So ye hae eat naething a' day?' said Meg, heaving a large portion of this mess into a brown
dish and strewing it savourily with salt and pepper. [Footnote: See Note 4.]

'Nothing,' answered the Dominie, 'scelestissima!--that is, gudewife.'

'Hae then,' said she, placing the dish before him, 'there's what will warm your heart.'

'I do not hunger, malefica--that is to say, Mrs. Merrilies!' for he said unto himself,' the
savour is sweet, but it hath been cooked by a Canidia or an Ericthoe.'

'If ye dinna eat instantly and put some saul in ye, by the bread and the salt, I'll put it
down your throat wi' the cutty spoon, scaulding as it is, and whether ye will or no. Gape,
sinner, and swallow!'

Sampson, afraid of eye of newt, and toe of frog, tigers' chaudrons, and so forth, had determined
not to venture; but the smell of the stew was fast melting his obstinacy, which flowed from
his chops as it were in streams of water, and the witch's threats decided him to feed. Hunger
and fear are excellent casuists.

'Saul,' said Hunger, 'feasted with the witch of Endor.' 'And,' quoth Fear, 'the salt which
she sprinkled upon the food showeth plainly it is not a necromantic banquet, in which that
seasoning never occurs.' 'And, besides,' says Hunger, after the first spoonful, 'it is savoury
and refreshing viands.'

'So ye like the meat?' said the hostess.

'Yea,' answered the Dominie, 'and I give thee thanks, sceleratissima!--which means, Mrs. Margaret.'

'Aweel, eat your fill; but an ye kenn'd how it was gotten ye maybe wadna like it sae weel.'
Sampson's spoon dropped in the act of conveying its load to his mouth. 'There's been mony a
moonlight watch to bring a' that trade thegither,' continued Meg; 'the folk that are to eat
that dinner thought little o' your game laws.'

'Is that all?' thought Sampson, resuming his spoon and shovelling away manfully; 'I will not
lack my food upon that argument.'

'Now ye maun tak a dram?'

'I will,' quoth Sampson, 'conjuro te--that is, I thank you heartily,' for he thought to himself,
in for a penny in for a pound; and he fairly drank the witch's health in a cupful of brandy.
When he had put this copestone upon Meg's good cheer, he felt, as he said, 'mightily elevated,
and afraid of no evil which could befall unto him.'

'Will ye remember my errand now?' said Meg Merrilies; 'I ken by the cast o' your ee that ye're
anither man than when you cam in.'

'I will, Mrs. Margaret,' repeated Sampson, stoutly; 'I will deliver unto him the sealed yepistle,
and will add what you please to send by word of mouth.'

'Then I'll make it short,' says Meg. 'Tell him to look at the stars without fail this night,
and to do what I desire him in that letter, as he would wish

     That Bertram's right and Bertram's might
     Should meet on Ellangowan height.

I have seen him twice when he saw na me; I ken when he was in this country first, and I ken
what's brought him back again. Up an' to the gate! ye're ower lang here; follow me.'

Sampson followed the sibyl accordingly, who guided him about a quarter of a mile through the
woods, by a shorter cut than he could have found for himself; then they entered upon the common,
Meg still marching before him at a great pace, until she gained the top of a small hillock
which overhung the road.

'Here,' she said, 'stand still here. Look how the setting sun breaks through yon cloud that's
been darkening the lift a' day. See where the first stream o' light fa's: it's upon Donagild's
round tower, the auldest tower in the Castle o' Ellangowan; that's no for naething! See as
it's glooming to seaward abune yon sloop in the bay; that's no for naething neither. Here I
stood on this very spot,' said she, drawing herself up so as not to lose one hair-breadth of
her uncommon height, and stretching out her long sinewy arm and clenched hand--'here I stood
when I tauld the last Laird o' Ellangowan what was coming on his house; and did that fa' to
the ground? na, it hit even ower sair! And here, where I brake the wand of peace ower him,
here I stand again, to bid God bless and prosper the just heir of Ellangowan that will sune
be brought to his ain; and the best laird he shall be that Ellangowan has seen for three hundred
years. I'll no live to see it, maybe; but there will be mony a blythe ee see it though mine
be closed. And now, Abel Sampson, as ever ye lo'ed the house of Ellangowan, away wi' my message
to the English Colonel, as if life and death were upon your haste!'

So saying, she turned suddenly from the amazed Dominie and regained with swift and long strides
the shelter of the wood from which she had issued at the point where it most encroached upon
the common. Sampson gazed after her for a moment in utter astonishment, and then obeyed her
directions, hurrying to Woodbourne at a pace very unusual for him, exclaiming three times,
'Prodigious! prodigious! pro-di-gi-ous!'

CHAPTER XLVII

     It is not madness
     That I have utter'd, bring me to the test,
     And I the matter will re-word, which madness
     Would gambol from.
          Hamlet.

As Mr. Sampson crossed the hall with a bewildered look, Mrs. Allan, the good housekeeper, who,
with the reverent attention which is usually rendered to the clergy in Scotland, was on the
watch for his return, sallied forth to meet him--'What's this o't now, Mr. Sampson, this is
waur than ever! Ye'll really do yoursell some injury wi' these lang fasts; naething's sae hurtful
to the stamach, Mr. Sampson. If ye would but put some peppermint draps in your pocket, or let
Barnes cut ye a sandwich.'

'Avoid thee!' quoth the Dominie, his mind running still upon his interview with Meg Merrilies,
and making for the dining-parlour.

'Na, ye needna gang in there, the cloth's been removed an hour syne, and the Colonel's at his
wine; but just step into my room, I have a nice steak that the cook will do in a moment.'

'Exorciso te!' said Sampson; 'that is, I have dined.'

'Dined! it's impossible; wha can ye hae dined wi', you that gangs out nae gate?'

'With Beelzebub, I believe,' said the minister.

'Na, then he's bewitched for certain,' said the housekeeper, letting go her hold; 'he's bewitched,
or he's daft, and ony way the Colonel maun just guide him his ain gate. Wae's me! Hech, sirs!
It's a sair thing to see learning bring folk to this!' And with this compassionate ejaculation
she retreated into her own premises.

The object of her commiseration had by this time entered the dining-parlour, where his appearance
gave great surprise. He was mud up to the shoulders, and the natural paleness of his hue was
twice as cadaverous as usual, through terror, fatigue, and perturbation of mind.

'What on earth is the meaning of this, Mr. Sampson?' said Mannering, who observed Miss Bertram
looking much alarmed for her simple but attached friend.

'Exorciso,' said the Dominie.

'How, sir?' replied the astonished Colonel.

'I crave pardon, honourable sir! but my wits---'

'Are gone a wool-gathering, I think; pray, Mr. Sampson, collect yourself, and let me know the
meaning of all this.'

Sampson was about to reply, but finding his Latin formula of exorcism still came most readily
to his tongue, he prudently desisted from the attempt, and put the scrap of paper which he
had received from the gipsy into Mannering's hand, who broke the seal and read it with surprise.
'This seems to be some jest,' he said, 'and a very dull one.'

'It came from no jesting person,' said Mr. Sampson.

'From whom then did it come?' demanded Mannering.

The Dominie, who often displayed some delicacy of recollection in cases where Miss Bertram
had an interest, remembered the painful circumstances connected with Meg Merrilies, looked
at the young ladies, and remained silent. 'We will join you at the tea-table in an instant,
Julia,' said the Colonel; 'I see that Mr. Sampson wishes to speak to me alone. And now they
are gone, what, in Heaven's name, Mr. Sampson, is the meaning of all this?'

'It may be a message from Heaven,' said the Dominie, 'but it came by Beelzebub's postmistress.
It was that witch, Meg Merrilies, who should have been burned with a tar-barrel twenty years
since for a harlot, thief, witch, and gipsy.'

'Are you sure it was she?' said the Colonel with great interest.

'Sure, honoured sir? Of a truth she is one not to be forgotten, the like o' Meg Merrilies is
not to be seen in any land.'

The Colonel paced the room rapidly, cogitating with himself. 'To send out to apprehend her;
but it is too distant to send to Mac- Morlan, and Sir Robert Hazlewood is a pompous coxcomb;
besides, the chance of not finding her upon the spot, or that the humour of silence that seized
her before may again return. No, I will not, to save being thought a fool, neglect the course
she points out. Many of her class set out by being impostors and end by becoming enthusiasts,
or hold a kind of darkling conduct between both lines, unconscious almost when they are cheating
themselves or when imposing on others. Well, my course is a plain one at any rate; and if my
efforts are fruitless, it shall not be owing to over-jealousy of my own character for wisdom.'

With this he rang the bell, and, ordering Barnes into his private sitting-room, gave him some
orders, with the result of which the reader may be made hereafter acquainted.

We must now take up another adventure, which is also to be woven into the story of this remarkable
day.

Charles Hazlewood had not ventured to make a visit at Woodbourne during the absence of the
Colonel. Indeed, Mannering's whole behaviour had impressed upon him an opinion that this would
be disagreeable; and such was the ascendency which the successful soldier and accomplished
gentleman had attained over the young man's conduct, that in no respect would he have ventured
to offend him. He saw, or thought he saw, in Colonel Mannering's general conduct, an approbation
of his attachment to Miss Bertram. But then he saw still more plainly the impropriety of any
attempt at a private correspondence, of which his parents could not be supposed to approve,
and he respected this barrier interposed betwixt them both on Mannering's account and as he
was the liberal and zealous protector of Miss Bertram. 'No,' said he to himself, 'I will not
endanger the comfort of my Lucy's present retreat until I can offer her a home of her own.'

With this valorous resolution, which he maintained although his horse, from constant habit,
turned his head down the avenue of Woodbourne, and although he himself passed the lodge twice
every day, Charles Hazlewood withstood a strong inclination to ride down just to ask how the
young ladies were, and whether he could be of any service to them during Colonel Mannering's
absence. But on the second occasion he felt the temptation so severe that he resolved not to
expose himself to it a third time; and, contenting himself with sending hopes and inquiries
and so forth to Woodbourne, he resolved to make a visit long promised to a family at some distance,
and to return in such time as to be one of the earliest among Mannering's visitors who should
congratulate his safe arrival from his distant and hazardous expedition to Edinburgh. Accordingly
he made out his visit, and, having arranged matters so as to be informed within a few hours
after Colonel Mannering reached home, he finally resolved to take leave of the friends with
whom he had spent the intervening time, with the intention of dining at Woodbourne, where he
was in a great measure domesticated; and this (for he thought much more deeply on the subject
than was necessary) would, he flattered himself, appear a simple, natural, and easy mode of
conducting himself.

