CHAPTER XVII

A ROYAL BANQUET

Madame, seeing me pacific and unresentful, no doubt judged that I was deceived by her excuse;
for her fright dissolved away, and she was soon so importunate to have me give an exhibition
and kill somebody, that the thing grew to be embarrassing.  However, to my relief she was presently
interrupted by the call to prayers.  I will say this much for the nobility: that, tyrannical,
murderous, rapacious, and morally rotten as they were, they were deeply and enthusiastically
religious.  Nothing could divert them from the regular and faithful performance of the pieties
enjoined by the Church.  More than once I had seen a noble who had gotten his enemy at a disadvantage,
stop to pray before cutting his throat; more than once I had seen a noble, after ambushing
and despatching his enemy, retire to the nearest wayside shrine and humbly give thanks, without
even waiting to rob the body.  There was to be nothing finer or sweeter in the life of even
Benvenuto Cellini, that rough-hewn saint, ten centuries later.  All the nobles of Britain,
with their families, attended divine service morning and night daily, in their private chapels,
and even the worst of them had family worship five or six times a day besides.  The credit
of this belonged entirely to the Church.  Although I was no friend to that Catholic Church,
I was obliged to admit this.  And often, in spite of me, I found myself saying, "What would
this country be without the Church?"

After prayers we had dinner in a great banqueting hall which was lighted by hundreds of grease-jets,
and everything was as fine and lavish and rudely splendid as might become the royal degree
of the hosts.  At the head of the hall, on a dais, was the table of the king, queen, and their
son, Prince Uwaine.  Stretching down the hall from this, was the general table, on the floor.
At this, above the salt, sat the visiting nobles and the grown members of their families, of
both sexes,--the resident Court, in effect--sixty-one persons; below the salt sat minor officers
of the household, with their principal subordinates: altogether a hundred and eighteen persons
sitting, and about as many liveried servants standing behind their chairs, or serving in one
capacity or another.  It was a very fine show.  In a gallery a band with cymbals, horns, harps,
and other horrors, opened the proceedings with what seemed to be the crude first-draft or original
agony of the wail known to later centuries as "In the Sweet Bye and Bye."  It was new, and
ought to have been rehearsed a little more.  For some reason or other the queen had the composer
hanged, after dinner.

After this music, the priest who stood behind the royal table said a noble long grace in ostensible
Latin.  Then the battalion of waiters broke away from their posts, and darted, rushed, flew,
fetched and carried, and the mighty feeding began; no words anywhere, but absorbing attention
to business.  The rows of chops opened and shut in vast unison, and the sound of it was like
to the muffled burr of subterranean machinery.

The havoc continued an hour and a half, and unimaginable was the destruction of substantials.
Of the chief feature of the feast --the huge wild boar that lay stretched out so portly and
imposing at the start--nothing was left but the semblance of a hoop-skirt; and he was but the
type and symbol of what had happened to all the other dishes.

With the pastries and so on, the heavy drinking began--and the talk. Gallon after gallon of
wine and mead disappeared, and everybody got comfortable, then happy, then sparklingly joyous--both
sexes, --and by and by pretty noisy.  Men told anecdotes that were terrific to hear, but nobody
blushed; and when the nub was sprung, the assemblage let go with a horse-laugh that shook the
fortress. Ladies answered back with historiettes that would almost have made Queen Margaret
of Navarre or even the great Elizabeth of England hide behind a handkerchief, but nobody hid
here, but only laughed --howled, you may say.  In pretty much all of these dreadful stories,
ecclesiastics were the hardy heroes, but that didn't worry the chaplain any, he had his laugh
with the rest; more than that, upon invitation he roared out a song which was of as daring
a sort as any that was sung that night.

By midnight everybody was fagged out, and sore with laughing; and, as a rule, drunk: some weepingly,
some affectionately, some hilariously, some quarrelsomely, some dead and under the table. Of
the ladies, the worst spectacle was a lovely young duchess, whose wedding-eve this was; and
indeed she was a spectacle, sure enough. Just as she was she could have sat in advance for
the portrait of the young daughter of the Regent d'Orleans, at the famous dinner whence she
was carried, foul-mouthed, intoxicated, and helpless, to her bed, in the lost and lamented
days of the Ancient Regime.

Suddenly, even while the priest was lifting his hands, and all conscious heads were bowed in
reverent expectation of the coming blessing, there appeared under the arch of the far-off door
at the bottom of the hall an old and bent and white-haired lady, leaning upon a crutch-stick;
and she lifted the stick and pointed it toward the queen and cried out:

"The wrath and curse of God fall upon you, woman without pity, who have slain mine innocent
grandchild and made desolate this old heart that had nor chick, nor friend nor stay nor comfort
in all this world but him!"

Everybody crossed himself in a grisly fright, for a curse was an awful thing to those people;
but the queen rose up majestic, with the death-light in her eye, and flung back this ruthless
command:

"Lay hands on her!  To the stake with her!"

The guards left their posts to obey.  It was a shame; it was a cruel thing to see.  What could
be done?  Sandy gave me a look; I knew she had another inspiration.  I said:

"Do what you choose."

She was up and facing toward the queen in a moment.  She indicated me, and said:

"Madame, he saith this may not be.  Recall the commandment, or he will dissolve the castle
and it shall vanish away like the instable fabric of a dream!"

Confound it, what a crazy contract to pledge a person to!  What if the queen--

But my consternation subsided there, and my panic passed off; for the queen, all in a collapse,
made no show of resistance but gave a countermanding sign and sunk into her seat.  When she
reached it she was sober.  So were many of the others.  The assemblage rose, whiffed ceremony
to the winds, and rushed for the door like a mob; overturning chairs, smashing crockery, tugging,
struggling, shouldering, crowding--anything to get out before I should change my mind and puff
the castle into the measureless dim vacancies of space.  Well, well, well, they were a superstitious
lot.  It is all a body can do to conceive of it.

The poor queen was so scared and humbled that she was even afraid to hang the composer without
first consulting me.  I was very sorry for her--indeed, any one would have been, for she was
really suffering; so I was willing to do anything that was reasonable, and had no desire to
carry things to wanton extremities.  I therefore considered the matter thoughtfully, and ended
by having the musicians ordered into our presence to play that Sweet Bye and Bye again, which
they did.  Then I saw that she was right, and gave her permission to hang the whole band. 
This little relaxation of sternness had a good effect upon the queen.  A statesman gains little
by the arbitrary exercise of iron-clad authority upon all occasions that offer, for this wounds
the just pride of his subordinates, and thus tends to undermine his strength.  A little concession,
now and then, where it can do no harm, is the wiser policy.

Now that the queen was at ease in her mind once more, and measurably happy, her wine naturally
began to assert itself again, and it got a little the start of her.  I mean it set her music
going--her silver bell of a tongue.  Dear me, she was a master talker.  It would not become
me to suggest that it was pretty late and that I was a tired man and very sleepy.  I wished
I had gone off to bed when I had the chance.  Now I must stick it out; there was no other way.
So she tinkled along and along, in the otherwise profound and ghostly hush of the sleeping
castle, until by and by there came, as if from deep down under us, a far-away sound, as of
a muffled shriek --with an expression of agony about it that made my flesh crawl. The queen
stopped, and her eyes lighted with pleasure; she tilted her graceful head as a bird does when
it listens.  The sound bored its way up through the stillness again.

"What is it?" I said.

"It is truly a stubborn soul, and endureth long.  It is many hours now."

"Endureth what?"

"The rack.  Come--ye shall see a blithe sight.  An he yield not his secret now, ye shall see
him torn asunder."

What a silky smooth hellion she was; and so composed and serene, when the cords all down my
legs were hurting in sympathy with that man's pain.  Conducted by mailed guards bearing flaring
torches, we tramped along echoing corridors, and down stone stairways dank and dripping, and
smelling of mould and ages of imprisoned night --a chill, uncanny journey and a long one, and
not made the shorter or the cheerier by the sorceress's talk, which was about this sufferer
and his crime.  He had been accused by an anonymous informer, of having killed a stag in the
royal preserves.  I said:

"Anonymous testimony isn't just the right thing, your Highness. It were fairer to confront
the accused with the accuser."

"I had not thought of that, it being but of small consequence. But an I would, I could not,
for that the accuser came masked by night, and told the forester, and straightway got him hence
again, and so the forester knoweth him not."

"Then is this Unknown the only person who saw the stag killed?"

"Marry, no man saw the killing, but this Unknown saw this hardy wretch near to the spot where
the stag lay, and came with right loyal zeal and betrayed him to the forester."

"So the Unknown was near the dead stag, too?  Isn't it just possible that he did the killing
himself?  His loyal zeal--in a mask--looks just a shade suspicious.  But what is your highness's
idea for racking the prisoner?  Where is the profit?"

"He will not confess, else; and then were his soul lost.  For his crime his life is forfeited
by the law--and of a surety will I see that he payeth it!--but it were peril to my own soul
to let him die unconfessed and unabsolved.  Nay, I were a fool to fling me into hell for his
accommodation."

"But, your Highness, suppose he has nothing to confess?"

"As to that, we shall see, anon.  An I rack him to death and he confess not, it will peradventure
show that he had indeed naught to confess--ye will grant that that is sooth?  Then shall I
not be damned for an unconfessed man that had naught to confess --wherefore, I shall be safe."

It was the stubborn unreasoning of the time.  It was useless to argue with her.  Arguments
have no chance against petrified training; they wear it as little as the waves wear a cliff.
And her training was everybody's.  The brightest intellect in the land would not have been
able to see that her position was defective.

As we entered the rack-cell I caught a picture that will not go from me; I wish it would. 
A native young giant of thirty or thereabouts lay stretched upon the frame on his back, with
his wrists and ankles tied to ropes which led over windlasses at either end.  There was no
color in him; his features were contorted and set, and sweat-drops stood upon his forehead.
A priest bent over him on each side; the executioner stood by; guards were on duty; smoking
torches stood in sockets along the walls; in a corner crouched a poor young creature, her face
drawn with anguish, a half-wild and hunted look in her eyes, and in her lap lay a little child
asleep.  Just as we stepped across the threshold the executioner gave his machine a slight
turn, which wrung a cry from both the prisoner and the woman; but I shouted, and the executioner
released the strain without waiting to see who spoke. I could not let this horror go on; it
would have killed me to see it.  I asked the queen to let me clear the place and speak to the
prisoner privately; and when she was going to object I spoke in a low voice and said I did
not want to make a scene before her servants, but I must have my way; for I was King Arthur's
representative, and was speaking in his name.  She saw she had to yield.  I asked her to indorse
me to these people, and then leave me.  It was not pleasant for her, but she took the pill;
and even went further than I was meaning to require.  I only wanted the backing of her own
authority; but she said:

"Ye will do in all things as this lord shall command.  It is The Boss."

It was certainly a good word to conjure with: you could see it by the squirming of these rats.
The queen's guards fell into line, and she and they marched away, with their torch-bearers,
and woke the echoes of the cavernous tunnels with the measured beat of their retreating footfalls.
I had the prisoner taken from the rack and placed upon his bed, and medicaments applied to
his hurts, and wine given him to drink.  The woman crept near and looked on, eagerly, lovingly,
but timorously,--like one who fears a repulse; indeed, she tried furtively to touch the man's
forehead, and jumped back, the picture of fright, when I turned unconsciously toward her. 
It was pitiful to see.

"Lord," I said, "stroke him, lass, if you want to.  Do anything you're a mind to; don't mind me."

Why, her eyes were as grateful as an animal's, when you do it a kindness that it understands.
The baby was out of her way and she had her cheek against the man's in a minute and her hands
fondling his hair, and her happy tears running down.  The man revived and caressed his wife
with his eyes, which was all he could do.  I judged I might clear the den, now, and I did;
cleared it of all but the family and myself.  Then I said:

"Now, my friend, tell me your side of this matter; I know the other side."

The man moved his head in sign of refusal.  But the woman looked pleased--as it seemed to me--pleased
with my suggestion.  I went on--

"You know of me?"

"Yes.  All do, in Arthur's realms."

"If my reputation has come to you right and straight, you should not be afraid to speak."

The woman broke in, eagerly:

"Ah, fair my lord, do thou persuade him!  Thou canst an thou wilt. Ah, he suffereth so; and
it is for me--for me!  And how can I bear it? I would I might see him die--a sweet, swift death;
oh, my Hugo, I cannot bear this one!"

And she fell to sobbing and grovelling about my feet, and still imploring.  Imploring what?
The man's death?  I could not quite get the bearings of the thing.  But Hugo interrupted her
and said:

"Peace!  Ye wit not what ye ask.  Shall I starve whom I love, to win a gentle death?  I wend
thou knewest me better."

"Well," I said, "I can't quite make this out.  It is a puzzle.  Now--"

"Ah, dear my lord, an ye will but persuade him!  Consider how these his tortures wound me!
Oh, and he will not speak!--whereas, the healing, the solace that lie in a blessed swift death--"

"What are you maundering about?  He's going out from here a free man and whole--he's not going
to die."

The man's white face lit up, and the woman flung herself at me in a most surprising explosion
of joy, and cried out:

"He is saved!--for it is the king's word by the mouth of the king's servant--Arthur, the king
whose word is gold!"

"Well, then you do believe I can be trusted, after all.  Why didn't you before?"

"Who doubted?  Not I, indeed; and not she."

"Well, why wouldn't you tell me your story, then?"

"Ye had made no promise; else had it been otherwise."

"I see, I see....  And yet I believe I don't quite see, after all. You stood the torture and
refused to confess; which shows plain enough to even the dullest understanding that you had
nothing to confess--"

"I, my lord?  How so?  It was I that killed the deer!"

"You did?  Oh, dear, this is the most mixed-up business that ever--"

"Dear lord, I begged him on my knees to confess, but--"

"You did!  It gets thicker and thicker.  What did you want him to do that for?"

"Sith it would bring him a quick death and save him all this cruel pain."

"Well--yes, there is reason in that.  But he didn't want the quick death."

"He?  Why, of a surety he did."

"Well, then, why in the world didn't he confess?"

"Ah, sweet sir, and leave my wife and chick without bread and shelter?"

"Oh, heart of gold, now I see it!  The bitter law takes the convicted man's estate and beggars
his widow and his orphans.  They could torture you to death, but without conviction or confession
they could not rob your wife and baby.  You stood by them like a man; and you--true wife and
the woman that you are--you would have bought him release from torture at cost to yourself
of slow starvation and death--well, it humbles a body to think what your sex can do when it
comes to self-sacrifice.  I'll book you both for my colony; you'll like it there; it's a Factory
where I'm going to turn groping and grubbing automata into men."

CHAPTER XVIII

IN THE QUEEN'S DUNGEONS

Well, I arranged all that; and I had the man sent to his home. I had a great desire to rack
the executioner; not because he was a good, painstaking and paingiving official,--for surely
it was not to his discredit that he performed his functions well--but to pay him back for wantonly
cuffing and otherwise distressing that young woman.  The priests told me about this, and were
generously hot to have him punished.  Something of this disagreeable sort was turning up every
now and then.  I mean, episodes that showed that not all priests were frauds and self-seekers,
but that many, even the great majority, of these that were down on the ground among the common
people, were sincere and right-hearted, and devoted to the alleviation of human troubles and
sufferings. Well, it was a thing which could not be helped, so I seldom fretted about it, and
never many minutes at a time; it has never been my way to bother much about things which you
can't cure.  But I did not like it, for it was just the sort of thing to keep people reconciled
to an Established Church.  We must have a religion --it goes without saying--but my idea is,
to have it cut up into forty free sects, so that they will police each other, as had been the
case in the United States in my time.  Concentration of power in a political machine is bad;
and and an Established Church is only a political machine; it was invented for that; it is
nursed, cradled, preserved for that; it is an enemy to human liberty, and does no good which
it could not better do in a split-up and scattered condition.  That wasn't law; it wasn't gospel:
it was only an opinion--my opinion, and I was only a man, one man: so it wasn't worth any more
than the pope's--or any less, for that matter.

Well, I couldn't rack the executioner, neither would I overlook the just complaint of the priests.
The man must be punished somehow or other, so I degraded him from his office and made him leader
of the band--the new one that was to be started.  He begged hard, and said he couldn't play--a
plausible excuse, but too thin; there wasn't a musician in the country that could.

The queen was a good deal outraged, next morning when she found she was going to have neither
Hugo's life nor his property.  But I told her she must bear this cross; that while by law and
custom she certainly was entitled to both the man's life and his property, there were extenuating
circumstances, and so in Arthur the king's name I had pardoned him.  The deer was ravaging
the man's fields, and he had killed it in sudden passion, and not for gain; and he had carried
it into the royal forest in the hope that that might make detection of the misdoer impossible.
Confound her, I couldn't make her see that sudden passion is an extenuating circumstance in
the killing of venison--or of a person--so I gave it up and let her sulk it out.  I did think
I was going to make her see it by remarking that her own sudden passion in the case of the
page modified that crime.

"Crime!" she exclaimed.  "How thou talkest!  Crime, forsooth! Man, I am going to pay for him!"

Oh, it was no use to waste sense on her.  Training--training is everything; training is all
there is to a person.  We speak of nature; it is folly; there is no such thing as nature; what
we call by that misleading name is merely heredity and training. We have no thoughts of our
own, no opinions of our own; they are transmitted to us, trained into us.  All that is original
in us, and therefore fairly creditable or discreditable to us, can be covered up and hidden
by the point of a cambric needle, all the rest being atoms contributed by, and inherited from,
a procession of ancestors that stretches back a billion years to the Adam-clam or grasshopper
or monkey from whom our race has been so tediously and ostentatiously and unprofitably developed.
And as for me, all that I think about in this plodding sad pilgrimage, this pathetic drift
between the eternities, is to look out and humbly live a pure and high and blameless life,
and save that one microscopic atom in me that is truly me: the rest may land in Sheol and welcome
for all I care.

No, confound her, her intellect was good, she had brains enough, but her training made her
an ass--that is, from a many-centuries-later point of view.  To kill the page was no crime--it
was her right; and upon her right she stood, serenely and unconscious of offense. She was a
result of generations of training in the unexamined and unassailed belief that the law which
permitted her to kill a subject when she chose was a perfectly right and righteous one.

Well, we must give even Satan his due.  She deserved a compliment for one thing; and I tried
to pay it, but the words stuck in my throat.  She had a right to kill the boy, but she was
in no wise obliged to pay for him.  That was law for some other people, but not for her.  She
knew quite well that she was doing a large and generous thing to pay for that lad, and that
I ought in common fairness to come out with something handsome about it, but I couldn't--my
mouth refused.  I couldn't help seeing, in my fancy, that poor old grandma with the broken
heart, and that fair young creature lying butchered, his little silken pomps and vanities laced
with his golden blood.  How could she pay for him!  Whom could she pay?  And so, well knowing
that this woman, trained as she had been, deserved praise, even adulation, I was yet not able
to utter it, trained as I had been.  The best I could do was to fish up a compliment from outside,
so to speak--and the pity of it was, that it was true:

"Madame, your people will adore you for this."

Quite true, but I meant to hang her for it some day if I lived. Some of those laws were too
bad, altogether too bad.  A master might kill his slave for nothing--for mere spite, malice,
or to pass the time--just as we have seen that the crowned head could do it with his slave,
that is to say, anybody.  A gentleman could kill a free commoner, and pay for him--cash or
garden-truck. A noble could kill a noble without expense, as far as the law was concerned,
but reprisals in kind were to be expected.  Anybody could kill somebody, except the commoner
and the slave; these had no privileges.  If they killed, it was murder, and the law wouldn't
stand murder.  It made short work of the experimenter--and of his family, too, if he murdered
somebody who belonged up among the ornamental ranks.  If a commoner gave a noble even so much
as a Damiens-scratch which didn't kill or even hurt, he got Damiens' dose for it just the same;
they pulled him to rags and tatters with horses, and all the world came to see the show, and
crack jokes, and have a good time; and some of the performances of the best people present
were as tough, and as properly unprintable, as any that have been printed by the pleasant Casanova
in his chapter about the dismemberment of Louis XV's poor awkward enemy.

I had had enough of this grisly place by this time, and wanted to leave, but I couldn't, because
I had something on my mind that my conscience kept prodding me about, and wouldn't let me forget.
If I had the remaking of man, he wouldn't have any conscience. It is one of the most disagreeable
things connected with a person; and although it certainly does a great deal of good, it cannot
be said to pay, in the long run; it would be much better to have less good and more comfort.
Still, this is only my opinion, and I am only one man; others, with less experience, may think
differently.  They have a right to their view.  I only stand to this: I have noticed my conscience
for many years, and I know it is more trouble and bother to me than anything else I started
with.  I suppose that in the beginning I prized it, because we prize anything that is ours;
and yet how foolish it was to think so. If we look at it in another way, we see how absurd
it is: if I had an anvil in me would I prize it?  Of course not.  And yet when you come to
think, there is no real difference between a conscience and an anvil--I mean for comfort. 
I have noticed it a thousand times.  And you could dissolve an anvil with acids, when you couldn't
stand it any longer; but there isn't any way that you can work off a conscience--at least so
it will stay worked off; not that I know of, anyway.

There was something I wanted to do before leaving, but it was a disagreeable matter, and I
hated to go at it.  Well, it bothered me all the morning.  I could have mentioned it to the
old king, but what would be the use?--he was but an extinct volcano; he had been active in
his time, but his fire was out, this good while, he was only a stately ash-pile now; gentle
enough, and kindly enough for my purpose, without doubt, but not usable.  He was nothing, this
so-called king: the queen was the only power there. And she was a Vesuvius.  As a favor, she
might consent to warm a flock of sparrows for you, but then she might take that very opportunity
to turn herself loose and bury a city.  However, I reflected that as often as any other way,
when you are expecting the worst, you get something that is not so bad, after all.

So I braced up and placed my matter before her royal Highness. I said I had been having a general
jail-delivery at Camelot and among neighboring castles, and with her permission I would like
to examine her collection, her bric-a-brac--that is to say, her prisoners.  She resisted; but
I was expecting that.  But she finally consented.  I was expecting that, too, but not so soon.
That about ended my discomfort.  She called her guards and torches, and we went down into the
dungeons.  These were down under the castle's foundations, and mainly were small cells hollowed
out of the living rock.  Some of these cells had no light at all.  In one of them was a woman,
in foul rags, who sat on the ground, and would not answer a question or speak a word, but only
looked up at us once or twice, through a cobweb of tangled hair, as if to see what casual thing
it might be that was disturbing with sound and light the meaningless dull dream that was become
her life; after that, she sat bowed, with her dirt-caked fingers idly interlocked in her lap,
and gave no further sign.  This poor rack of bones was a woman of middle age, apparently; but
only apparently; she had been there nine years, and was eighteen when she entered.  She was
a commoner, and had been sent here on her bridal night by Sir Breuse Sance Pite, a neighboring
lord whose vassal her father was, and to which said lord she had refused what has since been
called le droit du seigneur, and, moreover, had opposed violence to violence and spilt half
a gill of his almost sacred blood.  The young husband had interfered at that point, believing
the bride's life in danger, and had flung the noble out into the midst of the humble and trembling
wedding guests, in the parlor, and left him there astonished at this strange treatment, and
implacably embittered against both bride and groom.  The said lord being cramped for dungeon-room
had asked the queen to accommodate his two criminals, and here in her bastile they had been
ever since; hither, indeed, they had come before their crime was an hour old, and had never
seen each other since.  Here they were, kenneled like toads in the same rock; they had passed
nine pitch dark years within fifty feet of each other, yet neither knew whether the other was
alive or not. All the first years, their only question had been--asked with beseechings and
tears that might have moved stones, in time, perhaps, but hearts are not stones: "Is he alive?"
"Is she alive?" But they had never got an answer; and at last that question was not asked any
more--or any other.

I wanted to see the man, after hearing all this.  He was thirty-four years old, and looked
sixty.  He sat upon a squared block of stone, with his head bent down, his forearms resting
on his knees, his long hair hanging like a fringe before his face, and he was muttering to
himself.  He raised his chin and looked us slowly over, in a listless dull way, blinking with
the distress of the torchlight, then dropped his head and fell to muttering again and took
no further notice of us.  There were some pathetically suggestive dumb witnesses present. 
On his wrists and ankles were cicatrices, old smooth scars, and fastened to the stone on which
he sat was a chain with manacles and fetters attached; but this apparatus lay idle on the ground,
and was thick with rust.  Chains cease to be needed after the spirit has gone out of a prisoner.

I could not rouse the man; so I said we would take him to her, and see--to the bride who was
the fairest thing in the earth to him, once--roses, pearls, and dew made flesh, for him; a
wonder-work, the master-work of nature: with eyes like no other eyes, and voice like no other
voice, and a freshness, and lithe young grace, and beauty, that belonged properly to the creatures
of dreams--as he thought--and to no other.  The sight of her would set his stagnant blood leaping;
the sight of her--

But it was a disappointment.  They sat together on the ground and looked dimly wondering into
each other's faces a while, with a sort of weak animal curiosity; then forgot each other's
presence, and dropped their eyes, and you saw that they were away again and wandering in some
far land of dreams and shadows that we know nothing about.

I had them taken out and sent to their friends.  The queen did not like it much.  Not that
she felt any personal interest in the matter, but she thought it disrespectful to Sir Breuse
Sance Pite.  However, I assured her that if he found he couldn't stand it I would fix him so
that he could.

I set forty-seven prisoners loose out of those awful rat-holes, and left only one in captivity.
He was a lord, and had killed another lord, a sort of kinsman of the queen.  That other lord
had ambushed him to assassinate him, but this fellow had got the best of him and cut his throat.
However, it was not for that that I left him jailed, but for maliciously destroying the only
public well in one of his wretched villages.  The queen was bound to hang him for killing her
kinsman, but I would not allow it: it was no crime to kill an assassin.  But I said I was willing
to let her hang him for destroying the well; so she concluded to put up with that, as it was
better than nothing.

Dear me, for what trifling offenses the most of those forty-seven men and women were shut up
there!  Indeed, some were there for no distinct offense at all, but only to gratify somebody's
spite; and not always the queen's by any means, but a friend's.  The newest prisoner's crime
was a mere remark which he had made.  He said he believed that men were about all alike, and
one man as good as another, barring clothes.  He said he believed that if you were to strip
the nation naked and send a stranger through the crowd, he couldn't tell the king from a quack
doctor, nor a duke from a hotel clerk.  Apparently here was a man whose brains had not been
reduced to an ineffectual mush by idiotic training.  I set him loose and sent him to the Factory.

