 Paul's and the Westminster Cathedral; and to put down
political meetings and associations because of the offence given by them to many worthy and
excellent people, would be a far worse tyranny, because it would kill the religious and political
life of the country outright, whereas to compel people to attend the services and meetings
of their opponents would greatly enlarge their minds, and would actually be a good thing if
it were enforced all round. I should not object to a law to compel everybody to read two newspapers,
each violently opposed to the other in politics; but to forbid us to read newspapers at all
would be to maim us mentally and cashier our country in the ranks of civilization. I deny that
anybody has the right to demand more from me, over and above lawful conduct in a general sense,
than liberty to stay away from the theatre in which my plays are represented. If he is unfortunate
enough to have a religion so petty that it can be insulted (any man is as welcome to insult
my religion, if he can, as he is to insult the universe) I claim the right to insult it to
my heart's content, if I choose, provided I do not compel him to come and hear me. If I think
this country ought to make war on any other country, then, so long as war remains lawful, I
claim full liberty to write and perform a play inciting the country to that war without interference
from the ambassadors of the menaced country. I may "give pain to many worthy people, and pleasure
to none," as the Censor's pet phrase puts it: I may even make Europe a cockpit and Asia a shambles:
no matter: if preachers and politicians, statesmen and soldiers, may do these things--if it
is right that such things should be done, then I claim my share in the right to do them. If
the proposed Committee is meant to prevent me from doing these things whilst men of other professions
are permitted to do them, then I protest with all my might against the formation of such a
Committee. If it is to protect me, on the contrary, against the attacks that bigots and corrupt
pornographers may make on me by appealing to the ignorance and prejudices of common jurors,
then I welcome it; but is that really the object of its proposers? And if it is, what guarantee
have I that the new tribunal will not presently resolve into a mere committee to avoid unpleasantness
and keep the stage "in good taste"? It is no more possible for me to do my work honestly as
a playwright without giving pain than it is for a dentist. The nation's morals are like its
teeth: the more decayed they are the more it hurts to touch them. Prevent dentists and dramatists
from giving pain, and not only will our morals become as carious as our teeth, but toothache
and the plagues that follow neglected morality will presently cause more agony than all the
dentists and dramatists at their worst have caused since the world began.

ANYTHING FOR A QUIET LIFE

Another doubt: would a Committee of the Privy Council really face the risks that must be taken
by all communities as the price of our freedom to evolve? Would it not rather take the popular
English view that freedom and virtue generally are sweet and desirable only when they cost
nothing? Nothing worth having is to be had without risk. A mother risks her child's life every
time she lets it ramble through the countryside, or cross the street, or clamber over the rocks
on the shore by itself. A father risks his son's morals when he gives him a latchkey. The members
of the Joint Select Committee risked my producing a revolver and shooting them when they admitted
me to the room without having me handcuffed. And these risks are no unreal ones. Every day
some child is maimed or drowned and some young man infected with disease; and political assassinations
have been appallingly frequent of late years. Railway travelling has its risks; motoring has
its risks; aeroplaning has its risks; every advance we make costs us a risk of some sort. And
though these are only risks to the individual, to the community they are certainties. It is
not certain that I will be killed this year in a railway accident; but it is certain that somebody
will. The invention of printing and the freedom of the press have brought upon us, not merely
risks of their abuse, but the establishment as part of our social routine of some of the worst
evils a community can suffer from. People who realize these evils shriek for the suppression
of motor cars, the virtual imprisonment and enslavement of the young, the passing of Press
Laws (especially in Egypt, India, and Ireland), exactly as they shriek for a censorship of
the stage. The freedom of the stage will be abused just as certainly as the complaisance and
innocence of the censorship is abused at present. It will also be used by writers like myself
for raising very difficult and disturbing questions, social, political, and religious, at moments
which may be extremely inconvenient to the government. Is it certain that a Committee of the
Privy Council would stand up to all this as the price of liberty? I doubt it. If I am to be
at the mercy of a nice amiable Committee of elderly gentlemen (I know all about elderly gentlemen,
being one myself) whose motto is the highly popular one, "Anything for a quiet life" and who
will make the inevitable abuses of freedom by our blackguards an excuse for interfering with
any disquieting use of it by myself, then I shall be worse off than I am with the Lord Chamberlain,
whose mind is not broad enough to obstruct the whole range of thought. If it were, he would
be given a more difficult post.

SHALL THE EXAMINER OF PLAYS STARVE?

And here I may be reminded that if I prefer the Lord Chamberlain I can go to the Lord Chamberlain,
who is to retain all his present functions for the benefit of those who prefer to be judged
by him. But I am not so sure that the Lord Chamberlain will be able to exercise those functions
for long if resort to him is to be optional. Let me be kinder to him than he has been to me,
and uncover for him the pitfalls which the Joint Select Committee have dug (and concealed)
in his path. Consider how the voluntary system must inevitably work. The Joint Select Committee
expressly urges that the Lord Chamberlain's licence must not be a bar to a prosecution. Granted
that in spite of this reservation the licence would prove in future as powerful a defence as
it has been in the past, yet the voluntary clause nevertheless places the manager at the mercy
of any author who makes it a condition of his contract that his play shall not be submitted
for licence. I should probably take that course without opposition from the manager. For the
manager, knowing that three of my plays have been refused a licence, and that it would be far
safer to produce a play for which no licence had been asked than one for which it had been
asked and refused, would agree that it was more prudent, in my case, to avail himself of the
power of dispensing with the Lord Chamberlain's  licence. But now mark the consequences. The
manager, having thus discovered that his best policy was to dispense with the licence in the
few doubtful cases, would presently ask himself why he should spend two guineas each on licences
for the many plays as to which no question could conceivably arise. What risk does any manager
run in producing such works as Sweet Lavender, Peter Pan, The Silver King, or any of the 99
per cent of plays that are equally neutral on controversial questions? Does anyone seriously
believe that the managers would continue to pay the Lord Chamberlain two guineas a play out
of mere love and loyalty, only to create an additional risk in the case of controversial plays,
and to guard against risks that do not exist in the case of the great bulk of other productions?
Only those would remain faithful to him who produce such plays as the Select Committee began
by discussing in camera, and ended by refusing to discuss at all because they were too nasty.
These people would still try to get a licence, and would still no doubt succeed as they do
today. But could the King's Reader of Plays live on his fees from these plays alone; and if
he could how long would his post survive the discredit of licensing only pornographic plays?
It is clear to me that the Examiner would be starved out of existence, and the censorship perish
of desuetude. Perhaps that is exactly what the Select Committee contemplated. If so, I have
nothing more to say, except that I think sudden death would be more merciful.

LORD GORELL'S AWAKENING

In the meantime, conceive the situation which would arise if a licensed play were prosecuted.
To make it clearer, let us imagine any other offender--say a company promoter with a fraudulent
prospectus--pleading in Court that he had induced the Lord Chamberlain to issue a certificate
that the prospectus contained nothing objectionable, and that on the strength of that certificate
he issued it; also, that by law the Court could do nothing to him except order him to wind
up his company. Some such vision as this must have come to Lord Gorell when he at last grappled
seriously with the problem. Mr. Harcourt seized the opportunity to make a last rally. He seconded
Lord Gorell's proposal that the Committee should admit that its scheme of an optional censorship
was an elaborate absurdity, and report that all censorship before production was out of the
question. But it was too late: the volte face was too sudden and complete. It was Lord Gorell
whose vote had turned the close division which took place on the question of receiving my statement.
It was Lord Gorell without whose countenance and authority the farce of the books could never
have been performed. Yet here was Lord Gorell, after assenting to all the provisions for the
optional censorship paragraph by paragraph, suddenly informing his colleagues that they had
been wrong all through and that I had been right all through, and inviting them to scrap half
their work and adopt my conclusion. No wonder Lord Gorell got only one vote: that of Mr. Harcourt.
But the incident is not the less significant. Lord Gorell carried more weight than any other
member of the Committee on the legal and constitutional aspect of the question. Had he begun
where he left off--had he at the outset put down his foot on the notion that an optional penal
law could ever be anything but a gross contradiction in terms, that part of the Committee's
proposals would never have come into existence.

JUDGES: THEIR PROFESSIONAL LIMITATIONS

