The chroniclers of the earliest voyages to the Atlantic coast abound in references to this
traffic. First of Europeans to purchase native furs in America appear to have been the Norsemen
who settled Vinland. In the saga of Eric the Red[20] we find this interesting account: "Thereupon
Karlsefni and his people displayed their shields, and when they came together they began to
barter with each other. Especially did the strangers wish to buy red cloth, for which they
offered in exchange peltries and quite grey skins. They also desired to buy swords and spears,
but Karlsefni and Snorri forbade this. In exchange for perfect unsullied skins the Skrellings
would take red stuff a span in length, which they would bind around their heads. So their trade
went on for a time, until Karlsefni and his people began to grow short of cloth, when they
divided it into such narrow pieces that it was not more than a finger's breadth wide, but the
Skrellings still continued to give just as much for this as before, or more."[21]

The account of Verrazano's voyage mentions his Indian trade. Captain John Smith, exploring
New England in 1614, brought back a cargo of fish and 11,000 beaver skins.[22] These examples
could be multiplied; in short, a way was prepared for colonization by the creation of a demand
for European goods, and thus the opportunity for a lodgement was afforded.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 20: Reeves, Finding of Wineland the Good, 47.]

[Footnote 21: N.Y. Hist. Colls., I., 54-55, 59.]

[Footnote 22: Smith, Generall Historie (Richmond, 1819), I., 87-8, 182, 199; Strachey's Travaile
into Virginia, 157 (Hakluyt Soc. VI.); Parkman, Pioneers, 230.]

NEW ENGLAND INDIAN TRADE.

The Indian trade has a place in the early history of the New England colonies. The Plymouth
settlers "found divers corn fields and little running brooks, a place ... fit for situation,"[23]
and settled down cuckoo-like in Indian clearings. Mr. Weeden has shown that the Indian trade
furnished a currency (wampum) to New England, and that it afforded the beginnings of her commerce.
In September of their first year the Plymouth men sent out a shallop to trade with the Indians,
and when a ship arrived from England in 1621 they speedily loaded her with a return cargo of
beaver and lumber.[24] By frequent legislation the colonies regulated and fostered the trade.[25]
Bradford reports that in a single year twenty hhd. of furs were shipped from Plymouth, and
that between 1631 and 1636 their shipments amounted to 12,150 li. beaver and 1156 li. otter.[26]
Morton in his 'New English Canaan' alleges that a servant of his was "thought to have a thousand
pounds in ready gold gotten by the beaver when he died."[27] In the pursuit of this trade men
passed continually farther into the wilderness, and their trading posts "generally became the
pioneers of new settlements."[28] For example, the posts of Oldham, a Puritan trader, led the
way for the settlements on the Connecticut river,[29] and in their early days these towns were
partly sustained by the Indian trade.[30]

Not only did the New England traders expel the Dutch from this valley; they contended with
them on the Hudson.[31]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 23: Bradford, Plymouth Plantation.]

[Footnote 24: Bradford, 104.]

[Footnote 25: E.g., Plymouth Records, I., 50, 54, 62, 119; II., 10; Massachusetts Colonial
Records, I., 55, 81, 96, 100, 322; II., 86, 138; III., 424; V., 180; Hazard, Historical Collections,
II., 19 (the Commissioners of the United Colonies propose giving the monopoly of the fur trade
to a corporation). On public truck-houses, vide post, p. 58.]

[Footnote 26: Bradford, 108, gives the proceeds of the sale of these furs.]

[Footnote 27: Force, Collections, Vol. I., No. 5, p. 53.]

[Footnote 28: Weeden, I., 132, 160-1.]

[Footnote 29: Winthrop, History of New England, I., 111, 131.]

[Footnote 30: Connecticut Colonial Records, 1637, pp. 11, 18.]

[Footnote 31: Weeden, I., 126.]

INDIAN TRADE IN THE MIDDLE COLONIES.

Morton, in the work already referred to, protested against allowing "the Great Lake of the
Erocoise" (Champlain) to the Dutch, saying that it is excellent for the fur trade, and that
the Dutch have gained by beaver 20,000 pounds a year. Exaggerated though the statement is,
it is true that the energies of the Dutch were devoted to this trade, rather than to agricultural
settlement. As in the case of New France the settlers dispersed themselves in the Indian trade;
so general did this become that laws had to be passed to compel the raising of crops.[32] New
York City (New Amsterdam) was founded and for a time sustained by the fur trade. In their search
for peltries the Dutch were drawn up the Hudson, up the Connecticut, and down the Delaware,
where they had Swedes for their rivals. By way of the Hudson the Dutch traders had access to
Lake Champlain, and to the Mohawk, the headwaters of which connected through the lakes of western
New York with Lake Ontario. This region, which was supplied by the trading post of Orange (Albany),
was the seat of the Iroquois confederacy. The results of the trade upon Indian society became
apparent in a short time in the most decisive way. Furnished with arms by the Dutch, the Iroquois
turned upon the neighboring Indians, whom the French had at first refrained from supplying
with guns.[33] In 1649 they completely ruined the Hurons,[34] a part of whom fled to the woods
of northern Wisconsin. In the years immediately following, the Neutral Nation and the Eries
fell under their power; they overawed the New England Indians and the Southern tribes, and
their hunting and war parties visited Illinois and drove Indians of those plains into Wisconsin.
Thus by priority in securing firearms, as well as by their remarkable civil organization,[35]
the Iroquois secured possession of the St. Lawrence and Lakes Ontario and Erie. The French
had accepted the alliance of the Algonquins and the Hurons, as the Dutch, and afterward the
English, had that of the Iroquois; so these victories of the Iroquois cut the French off from
the entrance to the Great Lakes by way of the upper St. Lawrence. As early as 1629 the Dutch
trade was estimated at 50,000 guilders per annum, and the Delaware trade alone produced 10,000
skins yearly in 1663.[36] The English succeeded to this trade, and under Governor Dongan they
made particular efforts to extend their operations to the Northwest, using the Iroquois as
middlemen. Although the French were in possession of the trade with the Algonquins of the Northwest,
the English had an economic advantage in competing for this trade in the fact that Albany traders,
whose situation enabled them to import their goods more easily than Montreal traders could,
and who were burdened with fewer governmental restrictions, were able to pay fifty per cent
more for beaver and give better goods. French traders frequently received their supplies from
Albany, a practice against which the English authorities legislated in 1720; and the coureurs
de bois smuggled their furs to the same place.[37] As early as 1666 Talon proposed that the
king of France should purchase New York, "whereby he would have two entrances to Canada and
by which he would give to the French all the peltries of the north, of which the English share
the profit by the communication which they have with the Iroquois by Manhattan and Orange."[38]
It is a characteristic of the fur trade that it continually recedes from the original center,
and so it happened that the English traders before long attempted to work their way into the
Illinois country.[39] The wars between the French and English and Iroquois must be read in
the light of this fact. At the outbreak of the last French and Indian war, however, it was
rather Pennsylvania and Virginia traders who visited the Ohio Valley. It is said that some
three hundred of them came over the mountains yearly, following the Susquehanna and the Juniata
and the headwaters of the Potomac to the tributaries of the Ohio, and visiting with their pack-horses
the Indian villages along the valley. The center of the English trade was Pickawillani on the
Great Miami. In 1749 Celoron de Bienville, who had been sent out to vindicate French authority
in the valley, reported that each village along the Ohio and its branches "has one or more
English traders, and each of these has hired men to carry his furs."[40]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 32: New York Colonial Documents, I., 181, 389, §7.]

[Footnote 33: Ibid. IX., 57. The same proposal was made in 1681 by Du Chesneau, ibid. IX., 165.]

[Footnote 39: Parkman's works; N.Y. Col. Docs., IX., 165; Shea's Charlevoix, IV., 16: "The
English, indeed, as already remarked, from that time shared with the French in the fur trade;
and this was the chief motive of their fomenting war between us and the Iroquois, inasmuch
as they could get no good furs, which come from the northern districts, except by means of
these Indians, who could scarcely effect a reconciliation with us without precluding them from
this precious mine."]

[Footnote 40: Parkman, Montcalm and Wolfe, I., 50.]

INDIAN TRADE IN THE SOUTHERN COLONIES.

The Indian trade of the Virginians was not limited to the Ohio country. As in the case of Massachusetts
Bay, the trade had been provided for before the colony left England,[41] and in times of need
it had preserved the infant settlement. Bacon's rebellion was in part due to the opposition
to the governor's trading relations with the savages. After a time the nearer Indians were
exploited, and as early as the close of the seventeenth century Virginia traders sought the
Indians west of the Alleghanies.[42] The Cherokees lived among the mountains, "where the present
states of Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia, and the Carolinas join one another."[43] To the west,
on the Mississippi, were the Chickasaws, south of whom lived the Choctaws, while to the south
of the Cherokees were the Creeks. The Catawbas had their villages on the border of North and
South Carolina, about the headwaters of the Santee river. Shawnese Indians had formerly lived
on the Cumberland river, and French traders had been among them, as well as along the Mississippi;[44]
but by the time of the English traders, Tennessee and Kentucky were for the most part uninhabited.
The Virginia traders reached the Catawbas, and for a time the Cherokees, by a trading route
through the southwest of the colony to the Santee. By 1712 this trade was a well-established
one,[45] and caravans of one hundred pack-horses passed along the trail.[46]

The Carolinas had early been interested in the fur trade. In 1663 the Lords Proprietors proposed
to pay the governor's salary from the proceeds of the traffic. Charleston traders were the
rivals of the Virginians in the southwest. They passed even to the Choctaws and Chickasaws,
crossing the rivers by portable boats of skin, and sometimes taking up a permanent abode among
the Indians. Virginia and Carolina traders were not on good terms with each other, and Governor
Spottswood frequently made complaints of the actions of the Carolinians. His expedition across
the mountains in 1716, if his statement is to be trusted, opened a new way to the transmontane
Indians, and soon afterwards a trading company was formed under his patronage to avail themselves
of this new route.[47] It passed across the Blue Ridge into the Shenandoah valley, and down
the old Indian trail to the Cherokees, who lived along the upper Tennessee. Below the bend
at the Muscle Shoals the Virginians met the competition of the French traders from New Orleans
and Mobile.[48]

The settlement of Augusta, Georgia, was another important trading post. Here in 1740 was an
English garrison of fifteen or twenty soldiers, and a little band of traders, who annually
took about five hundred pack-horses into the Indian country. In the spring the furs were floated
down the river in large boats.[49] The Spaniards and the French also visited the Indians, and
the rivalry over this trade was an important factor in causing diplomatic embroilment.[50]

The occupation of the back-lands of the South affords a prototype of the process by which the
plains of the far West were settled, and also furnishes an exemplification of all the stages
of economic development existing contemporaneously. After a time the traders were accompanied
to the Indian grounds by hunters, and sometimes the two callings were combined.[51] When Boone
entered Kentucky he went with an Indian trader whose posts were on the Red river in Kentucky.[52]
After the game decreased the hunter's clearing was occupied by the cattle-raiser, and his home,
as settlement grew, became the property of the cultivator of the soil;[53] the manufacturing
era belongs to our own time.

In the South, the Middle Colonies and New England the trade opened the water-courses, the trading
post grew into the palisaded town, and rival nations sought to possess the trade for themselves.
Throughout the colonial frontier the effects, as well as the methods, of Indian traffic were
strikingly alike. The trader was the pathfinder for civilization. Nor was the process limited
to the east of the Mississippi. The expeditions of Verenderye led to the discovery of the Rocky
Mountains.[54] French traders passed up the Missouri; and when the Lewis and Clarke expedition
ascended that river and crossed the continent, it went with traders and voyageurs as guides
and interpreters. Indeed, Jefferson first conceived the idea of such an expedition[55] from
contact with Ledyard, who was organizing a fur trading company in France, and it was proposed
to Congress as a means of fostering our western Indian trade.[56] The first immigrant train
to California was incited by the representations of an Indian trader who had visited the region,
and it was guided by trappers.[57]

St. Louis was the center of the fur trade of the far West, and Senator Benton was intimate
with leading traders like Chouteau.[58] He urged the occupation of the Oregon country, where
in 1810 an establishment had for a time been made by the celebrated John Jacob Astor; and he
fostered legislation opening the road to the southwestern Mexican settlements long in use by
the traders. The expedition of his son-in-law Frémont was made with French voyageurs, and guided
to the passes by traders who had used them before.[59] Benton was also one of the stoutest
of the early advocates of a Pacific railway.

But the Northwest[60] was particularly the home of the fur trade, and having seen that this
traffic was not an isolated or unimportant matter, we may now proceed to study it in detail
with Wisconsin as the field of investigation.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 41: Charter of 1606.]

[Footnote 42: Ramsay, Tennessee, 63.]

[Footnote 43: On the Southwestern Indians see Adair, American Indians.]

[Footnote 44: Ramsay, 75.]

[Footnote 45: Spottswood's Letters, Virginia Hist. Colls., N.S., I., 67.]

[Footnote 46: Byrd Manuscripts, I., 180. The reader will find a convenient map for the southern
region in Roosevelt, Winning of the West, I.]

[Footnote 47: Spottswood's Letters, I., 40; II., 149, 150.]

[Footnote 48: Ramsay, 64. Note the bearing of this route on the Holston settlement.]

[Footnote 49: Georgia Historical Collections, I., 180; II., 123-7.]

[Footnote 50: Spottswood. II., 331, for example.]

[Footnote 51: Ramsay, 65.]

[Footnote 52: Boone, Life and Adventures.]

