Ethan sat speechless, not pretending to eat, but Mattie nibbled valiantly at her food and asked
Zeena one or two questions about her visit to Bettsbridge. Zeena answered in her every-day
tone and, warming to the theme, regaled them with several vivid descriptions of intestinal
disturbances among her friends and relatives. She looked straight at Mattie as she spoke, a
faint smile deepening the vertical lines between her nose and chin.

When supper was over she rose from her seat and pressed her hand to the flat surface over the
region of her heart. "That pie of yours always sets a mite heavy, Matt," she said, not ill-naturedly.
She seldom abbreviated the girl's name, and when she did so it was always a sign of affability.

"I've a good mind to go and hunt up those stomach powders I got last year over in Springfield,"
she continued. "I ain't tried them for quite a while, and maybe they'll help the heartburn."

Mattie lifted her eyes. "Can't I get them for you, Zeena?" she ventured.

"No. They're in a place you don't know about," Zeena answered darkly, with one of her secret looks.

She went out of the kitchen and Mattie, rising, began to clear the dishes from the table. As
she passed Ethan's chair their eyes met and clung together desolately. The warm still kitchen
looked as peaceful as the night before. The cat had sprung to Zeena's rocking-chair, and the
heat of the fire was beginning to draw out the faint sharp scent of the geraniums. Ethan dragged
himself wearily to his feet.

"I'll go out and take a look around," he said, going toward the passage to get his lantern.

As he reached the door he met Zeena coming back into the room, her lips twitching with anger,
a flush of excitement on her sallow face. The shawl had slipped from her shoulders and was
dragging at her down-trodden heels, and in her hands she carried the fragments of the red glass
pickle-dish.

"I'd like to know who done this," she said, looking sternly from Ethan to Mattie.

There was no answer, and she continued in a trembling voice: "I went to get those powders I'd
put away in father's old spectacle-case, top of the china-closet, where I keep the things I
set store by, so's folks shan't meddle with them--" Her voice broke, and two small tears hung
on her lashless lids and ran slowly down her cheeks. "It takes the stepladder to get at the
top shelf, and I put Aunt Philura Maple's pickle-dish up there o' purpose when we was married,
and it's never been down since, 'cept for the spring cleaning, and then I always lifted it
with my own hands, so's 't shouldn't get broke." She laid the fragments reverently on the table.
"I want to know who done this," she quavered.

At the challenge Ethan turned back into the room and faced her. "I can tell you, then. The
cat done it."

"The cat?"

"That's what I said."

She looked at him hard, and then turned her eyes to Mattie, who was carrying the dish-pan to
the table.

"I'd like to know how the cat got into my china-closet"' she said.

"Chasin' mice, I guess," Ethan rejoined. "There was a mouse round the kitchen all last evening."

Zeena continued to look from one to the other; then she emitted her small strange laugh. "I
knew the cat was a smart cat," she said in a high voice, "but I didn't know he was smart enough
to pick up the pieces of my pickle-dish and lay 'em edge to edge on the very shelf he knocked
'em off of."

Mattie suddenly drew her arms out of the steaming water. "It wasn't Ethan's fault, Zeena! The
cat did break the dish; but I got it down from the china-closet, and I'm the one to blame for
its getting broken."

Zeena stood beside the ruin of her treasure, stiffening into a stony image of resentment, "You
got down my pickle-dish-what for?"

A bright flush flew to Mattie's cheeks. "I wanted to make the supper-table pretty," she said.

"You wanted to make the supper-table pretty; and you waited till my back was turned, and took
the thing I set most store by of anything I've got, and wouldn't never use it, not even when
the minister come to dinner, or Aunt Martha Pierce come over from Bettsbridge--" Zeena paused
with a gasp, as if terrified by her own evocation of the sacrilege. "You're a bad girl, Mattie
Silver, and I always known it. It's the way your father begun, and I was warned of it when
I took you, and I tried to keep my things where you couldn't get at 'em--and now you've took
from me the one I cared for most of all--" She broke off in a short spasm of sobs that passed
and left her more than ever like a shape of stone.

"If I'd 'a' listened to folks, you'd 'a' gone before now, and this wouldn't 'a' happened,"
she said; and gathering up the bits of broken glass she went out of the room as if she carried
a dead body...

VIII

When Ethan was called back to the farm by his father's illness his mother gave him, for his
own use, a small room behind the untenanted "best parlour." Here he had nailed up shelves for
his books, built himself a box-sofa out of boards and a mattress, laid out his papers on a
kitchen-table, hung on the rough plaster wall an engraving of Abraham Lincoln and a calendar
with "Thoughts from the Poets," and tried, with these meagre properties, to produce some likeness
to the study of a "minister" who had been kind to him and lent him books when he was at Worcester.
He still took refuge there in summer, but when Mattie came to live at the farm he had to give
her his stove, and consequently the room was uninhabitable for several months of the year.

To this retreat he descended as soon as the house was quiet, and Zeena's steady breathing from
the bed had assured him that there was to be no sequel to the scene in the kitchen. After Zeena's
departure he and Mattie had stood speechless, neither seeking to approach the other. Then the
girl had returned to her task of clearing up the kitchen for the night and he had taken his
lantern and gone on his usual round outside the house. The kitchen was empty when he came back
to it; but his tobacco-pouch and pipe had been laid on the table, and under them was a scrap
of paper torn from the back of a seedsman's catalogue, on which three words were written: "Don't
trouble, Ethan."

Going into his cold dark "study" he placed the lantern on the table and, stooping to its light,
read the message again and again. It was the first time that Mattie had ever written to him,
and the possession of the paper gave him a strange new sense of her nearness; yet it deepened
his anguish by reminding him that henceforth they would have no other way of communicating
with each other. For the life of her smile, the warmth of her voice, only cold paper and dead
words!

Confused motions of rebellion stormed in him. He was too young, too strong, too full of the
sap of living, to submit so easily to the destruction of his hopes. Must he wear out all his
years at the side of a bitter querulous woman? Other possibilities had been in him, possibilities
sacrificed, one by one, to Zeena's narrow-mindedness and ignorance. And what good had come
of it? She was a hundred times bitterer and more discontented than when he had married her:
the one pleasure left her was to inflict pain on him. All the healthy instincts of self-defence
rose up in him against such waste...

He bundled himself into his old coon-skin coat and lay down on the box-sofa to think. Under
his cheek he felt a hard object with strange protuberances. It was a cushion which Zeena had
made for him when they were engaged--the only piece of needlework he had ever seen her do.
He flung it across the floor and propped his head against the wall...

He knew a case of a man over the mountain--a young fellow of about his own age--who had escaped
from just such a life of misery by going West with the girl he cared for. His wife had divorced
him, and he had married the girl and prospered. Ethan had seen the couple the summer before
at Shadd's Falls, where they had come to visit relatives. They had a little girl with fair
curls, who wore a gold locket and was dressed like a princess. The deserted wife had not done
badly either. Her husband had given her the farm and she had managed to sell it, and with that
and the alimony she had started a lunch-room at Bettsbridge and bloomed into activity and importance.
Ethan was fired by the thought. Why should he not leave with Mattie the next day, instead of
letting her go alone? He would hide his valise under the seat of the sleigh, and Zeena would
suspect nothing till she went upstairs for her afternoon nap and found a letter on the bed...

His impulses were still near the surface, and he sprang up, re-lit the lantern, and sat down
at the table. He rummaged in the drawer for a sheet of paper, found one, and began to write.

"Zeena, I've done all I could for you, and I don't see as it's been any use. I don't blame
you, nor I don't blame myself. Maybe both of us will do better separate. I'm going to try my
luck West, and you can sell the farm and mill, and keep the money--"

His pen paused on the word, which brought home to him the relentless conditions of his lot.
If he gave the farm and mill to Zeena what would be left him to start his own life with? Once
in the West he was sure of picking up work--he would not have feared to try his chance alone.
But with Mattie depending on him the case was different. And what of Zeena's fate? Farm and
mill were mortgaged to the limit of their value, and even if she found a purchaser--in itself
an unlikely chance--it was doubtful if she could clear a thousand dollars on the sale. Meanwhile,
how could she keep the farm going? It was only by incessant labour and personal supervision
that Ethan drew a meagre living from his land, and his wife, even if she were in better health
than she imagined, could never carry such a burden alone.

Well, she could go back to her people, then, and see what they would do for her. It was the
fate she was forcing on Mattie--why not let her try it herself? By the time she had discovered
his whereabouts, and brought suit for divorce, he would probably--wherever he was--be earning
enough to pay her a sufficient alimony. And the alternative was to let Mattie go forth alone,
with far less hope of ultimate provision...

He had scattered the contents of the table-drawer in his search for a sheet of paper, and as
he took up his pen his eye fell on an old copy of the Bettsbridge Eagle. The advertising sheet
was folded uppermost, and he read the seductive words: "Trips to the West: Reduced Rates."

He drew the lantern nearer and eagerly scanned the fares; then the paper fell from his hand
and he pushed aside his unfinished letter. A moment ago he had wondered what he and Mattie
were to live on when they reached the West; now he saw that he had not even the money to take
her there. Borrowing was out of the question: six months before he had given his only security
to raise funds for necessary repairs to the mill, and he knew that without security no one
at Starkfield would lend him ten dollars. The inexorable facts closed in on him like prison-warders
handcuffing a convict. There was no way out--none. He was a prisoner for life, and now his
one ray of light was to be extinguished.

He crept back heavily to the sofa, stretching himself out with limbs so leaden that he felt
as if they would never move again. Tears rose in his throat and slowly burned their way to
his lids.

As he lay there, the window-pane that faced him, growing gradually lighter, inlaid upon the
darkness a square of moon-suffused sky. A crooked tree-branch crossed it, a branch of the apple-tree
under which, on summer evenings, he had sometimes found Mattie sitting when he came up from
the mill. Slowly the rim of the rainy vapours caught fire and burnt away, and a pure moon swung
into the blue. Ethan, rising on his elbow, watched the landscape whiten and shape itself under
the sculpture of the moon. This was the night on which he was to have taken Mattie coasting,
and there hung the lamp to light them! He looked out at the slopes bathed in lustre, the silver-edged
darkness of the woods, the spectral purple of the hills against the sky, and it seemed as though
all the beauty of the night had been poured out to mock his wretchedness...

He fell asleep, and when he woke the chill of the winter dawn was in the room. He felt cold
and stiff and hungry, and ashamed of being hungry. He rubbed his eyes and went to the window.
A red sun stood over the grey rim of the fields, behind trees that looked black and brittle.
He said to himself: "This is Matt's last day," and tried to think what the place would be without
her.

As he stood there he heard a step behind him and she entered.

"Oh, Ethan--were you here all night?"

She looked so small and pinched, in her poor dress, with the red scarf wound about her, and
the cold light turning her paleness sallow, that Ethan stood before her without speaking.

"You must be frozen," she went on, fixing lustreless eyes on him.

He drew a step nearer. "How did you know I was here?"

"Because I heard you go down stairs again after I went to bed, and I listened all night, and
you didn't come up."

All his tenderness rushed to his lips. He looked at her and said: "I'll come right along and
make up the kitchen fire."

They went back to the kitchen, and he fetched the coal and kindlings and cleared out the stove
for her, while she brought in the milk and the cold remains of the meat-pie. When warmth began
to radiate from the stove, and the first ray of sunlight lay on the kitchen floor, Ethan's
dark thoughts melted in the mellower air. The sight of Mattie going about her work as he had
seen her on so many mornings made it seem impossible that she should ever cease to be a part
of the scene. He said to himself that he had doubtless exaggerated the significance of Zeena's
threats, and that she too, with the return of daylight, would come to a saner mood.

He went up to Mattie as she bent above the stove, and laid his hand on her arm. "I don't want
you should trouble either," he said, looking down into her eyes with a smile.

She flushed up warmly and whispered back: "No, Ethan, I ain't going to trouble."

"I guess things'll straighten out," he added.

There was no answer but a quick throb of her lids, and he went on: "She ain't said anything
this morning?"

"No. I haven't seen her yet."

"Don't you take any notice when you do."

With this injunction he left her and went out to the cow-barn. He saw Jotham Powell walking
up the hill through the morning mist, and the familiar sight added to his growing conviction
of security.

As the two men were clearing out the stalls Jotham rested on his pitch-fork to say: "Dan'l
Byrne's goin' over to the Flats to-day noon, an' he c'd take Mattie's trunk along, and make
it easier ridin' when I take her over in the sleigh."

Ethan looked at him blankly, and he continued: "Mis' Frome said the new girl'd be at the Flats
at five, and I was to take Mattie then, so's 't she could ketch the six o'clock train for Stamford."

Ethan felt the blood drumming in his temples. He had to wait a moment before he could find
voice to say: "Oh, it ain't so sure about Mattie's going--"

"That so?" said Jotham indifferently; and they went on with their work.

When they returned to the kitchen the two women were already at breakfast. Zeena had an air
of unusual alertness and activity. She drank two cups of coffee and fed the cat with the scraps
left in the pie-dish; then she rose from her seat and, walking over to the window, snipped
two or three yellow leaves from the geraniums. "Aunt Martha's ain't got a faded leaf on 'em;
but they pine away when they ain't cared for," she said reflectively. Then she turned to Jotham
and asked: "What time'd you say Dan'l Byrne'd be along?"

The hired man threw a hesitating glance at Ethan.

"Round about noon," he said.

Zeena turned to Mattie. "That trunk of yours is too heavy for the sleigh, and Dan'l Byrne'll
be round to take it over to the Flats," she said.

"I'm much obliged to you, Zeena," said Mattie.

"I'd like to go over things with you first," Zeena continued in an unperturbed voice. "I know
there's a huckabuck towel missing; and I can't take out what you done with that match-safe
't used to stand behind the stuffed owl in the parlour."

She went out, followed by Mattie, and when the men were alone Jotham said to his employer:
"I guess I better let Dan'l come round, then."

Ethan finished his usual morning tasks about the house and barn; then he said to Jotham: "I'm
going down to Starkfield. Tell them not to wait dinner."

The passion of rebellion had broken out in him again. That which had seemed incredible in the
sober light of day had really come to pass, and he was to assist as a helpless spectator at
Mattie's banishment. His manhood was humbled by the part he was compelled to play and by the
thought of what Mattie must think of him. Confused impulses struggled in him as he strode along
to the village. He had made up his mind to do something, but he did not know what it would be.

The early mist had vanished and the fields lay like a silver shield under the sun. It was one
of the days when the glitter of winter shines through a pale haze of spring. Every yard of
the road was alive with Mattie's presence, and there was hardly a branch against the sky or
a tangle of brambles on the bank in which some bright shred of memory was not caught. Once,
in the stillness, the call of a bird in a mountain ash was so like her laughter that his heart
tightened and then grew large; and all these things made him see that something must be done
at once.

Suddenly it occurred to him that Andrew Hale, who was a kind-hearted man, might be induced
to reconsider his refusal and advance a small sum on the lumber if he were told that Zeena's
ill-health made it necessary to hire a servant. Hale, after all, knew enough of Ethan's situation
to make it possible for the latter to renew his appeal without too much loss of pride; and,
moreover, how much did pride count in the ebullition of passions in his breast?

The more he considered his plan the more hopeful it seemed. If he could get Mrs. Hale's ear
he felt certain of success, and with fifty dollars in his pocket nothing could keep him from
Mattie...

His first object was to reach Starkfield before Hale had started for his work; he knew the
carpenter had a job down the Corbury road and was likely to leave his house early. Ethan's
long strides grew more rapid with the accelerated beat of his thoughts, and as he reached the
foot of School House Hill he caught sight of Hale's sleigh in the distance. He hurried forward
to meet it, but as it drew nearer he saw that it was driven by the carpenter's youngest boy
and that the figure at his side, looking like a large upright cocoon in spectacles, was that
of Mrs. Hale. Ethan signed to them to stop, and Mrs. Hale leaned forward, her pink wrinkles
twinkling with benevolence.

"Mr. Hale? Why, yes, you'll find him down home now. He ain't going to his work this forenoon.
He woke up with a touch o' lumbago, and I just made him put on one of old Dr. Kidder's plasters
and set right up into the fire."

Beaming maternally on Ethan, she bent over to add: "I on'y just heard from Mr. Hale 'bout Zeena's
going over to Bettsbridge to see that new doctor. I'm real sorry she's feeling so bad again!
I hope he thinks he can do something for her. I don't know anybody round here's had more sickness
than Zeena. I always tell Mr. Hale I don't know what she'd 'a' done if she hadn't 'a' had you
to look after her; and I used to say the same thing 'bout your mother. You've had an awful
mean time, Ethan Frome."

She gave him a last nod of sympathy while her son chirped to the horse; and Ethan, as she drove
off, stood in the middle of the road and stared after the retreating sleigh.

It was a long time since any one had spoken to him as kindly as Mrs. Hale. Most people were
either indifferent to his troubles, or disposed to think it natural that a young fellow of
his age should have carried without repining the burden of three crippled lives. But Mrs. Hale
had said, "You've had an awful mean time, Ethan Frome," and he felt less alone with his misery.
If the Hales were sorry for him they would surely respond to his appeal...

He started down the road toward their house, but at the end of a few yards he pulled up sharply,
the blood in his face. For the first time, in the light of the words he had just heard, he
saw what he was about to do. He was planning to take advantage of the Hales' sympathy to obtain
money from them on false pretences. That was a plain statement of the cloudy purpose which
had driven him in headlong to Starkfield.

With the sudden perception of the point to which his madness had carried him, the madness fell
and he saw his life before him as it was. He was a poor man, the husband of a sickly woman,
whom his desertion would leave alone and destitute; and even if he had had the heart to desert
her he could have done so only by deceiving two kindly people who had pitied him.

He turned and walked slowly back to the farm.

IX

At the kitchen door Daniel Byrne sat in his sleigh behind a big-boned grey who pawed the snow
and swung his long head restlessly from side to side.

Ethan went into the kitchen and found his wife by the stove. Her head was wrapped in her shawl,
and she was reading a book called "Kidney Troubles and Their Cure" on which he had had to pay
extra postage only a few days before.

Zeena did not move or look up when he entered, and after a moment he asked: "Where's Mattie?"

Without lifting her eyes from the page she replied: "I presume she's getting down her trunk."

The blood rushed to his face. "Getting down her trunk--alone?"

"Jotham Powell's down in the wood-lot, and Dan'l Byrne says he darsn't leave that horse," she
returned.

Her husband, without stopping to hear the end of the phrase, had left the kitchen and sprung
up the stairs. The door of Mattie's room was shut, and he wavered a moment on the landing.
"Matt," he said in a low voice; but there was no answer, and he put his hand on the door-knob.

He had never been in her room except once, in the early summer, when he had gone there to plaster
up a leak in the eaves, but he remembered exactly how everything had looked: the red-and-white
quilt on her narrow bed, the pretty pin-cushion on the chest of drawers, and over it the enlarged
photograph of her mother, in an oxydized frame, with a bunch of dyed grasses at the back. Now
these and all other tokens of her presence had vanished and the room looked as bare and comfortless
as when Zeena had shown her into it on the day of her arrival. In the middle of the floor stood
her trunk, and on the trunk she sat in her Sunday dress, her back turned to the door and her
face in her hands. She had not heard Ethan's call because she was sobbing and she did not hear
his step till he stood close behind her and laid his hands on her shoulders.

"Matt--oh, don't--oh, Matt!"

She started up, lifting her wet face to his. "Ethan--I thought I wasn't ever going to see you
again!"

He took her in his arms, pressing her close, and with a trembling hand smoothed away the hair
from her forehead.

"Not see me again? What do you mean?"

She sobbed out: "Jotham said you told him we wasn't to wait dinner for you, and I thought--"

"You thought I meant to cut it?" he finished for her grimly.

She clung to him without answering, and he laid his lips on her hair, which was soft yet springy,
like certain mosses on warm slopes, and had the faint woody fragrance of fresh sawdust in the sun.

Through the door they heard Zeena's voice calling out from below: "Dan'l Byrne says you better
hurry up if you want him to take that trunk."

They drew apart with stricken faces. Words of resistance rushed to Ethan's lips and died there.
Mattie found her handkerchief and dried her eyes; then,--bending down, she took hold of a handle
of the trunk.

Ethan put her aside. "You let go, Matt," he ordered her.

She answered: "It takes two to coax it round the corner"; and submitting to this argument he
grasped the other handle, and together they manoeuvred the heavy trunk out to the landing.

"Now let go," he repeated; then he shouldered the trunk and carried it down the stairs and
across the passage to the kitchen. Zeena, who had gone back to her seat by the stove, did not
lift her head from her book as he passed. Mattie followed him out of the door and helped him
to lift the trunk into the back of the sleigh. When it was in place they stood side by side
on the door-step, watching Daniel Byrne plunge off behind his fidgety horse.

It seemed to Ethan that his heart was bound with cords which an unseen hand was tightening
with every tick of the clock. Twice he opened his lips to speak to Mattie and found no breath.
At length, as she turned to re-enter the house, he laid a detaining hand on her.

"I'm going to drive you over, Matt," he whispered.

She murmured back: "I think Zeena wants I should go with Jotham."

"I'm going to drive you over," he repeated; and she went into the kitchen without answering.

At dinner Ethan could not eat. If he lifted his eyes they rested on Zeena's pinched face, and
the corners of her straight lips seemed to quiver away into a smile. She ate well, declaring
that the mild weather made her feel better, and pressed a second helping of beans on Jotham
Powell, whose wants she generally ignored.

Mattie, when the meal was over, went about her usual task of clearing the table and washing
up the dishes. Zeena, after feeding the cat, had returned to her rocking-chair by the stove,
and Jotham Powell, who always lingered last, reluctantly pushed back his chair and moved toward
the door.

On the threshold he turned back to say to Ethan: "What time'll I come round for Mattie?"

Ethan was standing near the window, mechanically filling his pipe while he watched Mattie move
to and fro. He answered: "You needn't come round; I'm going to drive her over myself."

He saw the rise of the colour in Mattie's averted cheek, and the quick lifting of Zeena's head.

"I want you should stay here this afternoon, Ethan," his wife said. "Jotham can drive Mattie over."

Mattie flung an imploring glance at him, but he repeated curtly: "I'm going to drive her over
myself."

Zeena continued in the same even tone: "I wanted you should stay and fix up that stove in Mattie's
room afore the girl gets here. It ain't been drawing right for nigh on a month now."

Ethan's voice rose indignantly. "If it was good enough for Mattie I guess it's good enough
for a hired girl."

"That girl that's coming told me she was used to a house where they had a furnace," Zeena persisted
with the same monotonous mildness.

"She'd better ha' stayed there then," he flung back at her; and turning to Mattie he added
in a hard voice: "You be ready by three, Matt; I've got business at Corbury."

Jotham Powell had started for the barn, and Ethan strode down after him aflame with anger.
The pulses in his temples throbbed and a fog was in his eyes. He went about his task without
knowing what force directed him, or whose hands and feet were fulfilling its orders. It was
not till he led out the sorrel and backed him between the shafts of the sleigh that he once
more became conscious of what he was doing. As he passed the bridle over the horse's head,
and wound the traces around the shafts, he remembered the day when he had made the same preparations
in order to drive over and meet his wife's cousin at the Flats. It was little more than a year
ago, on just such a soft afternoon, with a "feel" of spring in the air. The sorrel, turning
the same big ringed eye on him, nuzzled the palm of his hand in the same way; and one by one
all the days between rose up and stood before him...

He flung the bearskin into the sleigh, climbed to the seat, and drove up to the house. When
he entered the kitchen it was empty, but Mattie's bag and shawl lay ready by the door. He went
to the foot of the stairs and listened. No sound reached him from above, but presently he thought
he heard some one moving about in his deserted study, and pushing open the door he saw Mattie,
in her hat and jacket, standing with her back to him near the table.

She started at his approach and turning quickly, said: "Is it time?"

"What are you doing here, Matt?" he asked her.

She looked at him timidly. "I was just taking a look round--that's all," she answered, with
a wavering smile.

They went back into the kitchen without speaking, and Ethan picked up her bag and shawl.

"Where's Zeena?" he asked.

"She went upstairs right after dinner. She said she had those shooting pains again, and didn't
want to be disturbed."

"Didn't she say good-bye to you?"

"No. That was all she said."

Ethan, looking slowly about the kitchen, said to himself with a shudder that in a few hours
he would be returning to it alone. Then the sense of unreality overcame him once more, and
he could not bring himself to believe that Mattie stood there for the last time before him.

"Come on," he said almost gaily, opening the door and putting her bag into the sleigh. He sprang
to his seat and bent over to tuck the rug about her as she slipped into the place at his side.
"Now then, go 'long," he said, with a shake of the reins that sent the sorrel placidly jogging
down the hill.

"We got lots of time for a good ride, Matt!" he cried, seeking her hand beneath the fur and
pressing it in his. His face tingled and he felt dizzy, as if he had stopped in at the Starkfield
saloon on a zero day for a drink.

At the gate, instead of making for Starkfield, he turned the sorrel to the right, up the Bettsbridge
road. Mattie sat silent, giving no sign of surprise; but after a moment she said: "Are you
going round by Shadow Pond?"

He laughed and answered: "I knew you'd know!"

She drew closer under the bearskin, so that, looking sideways around his coat-sleeve, he could
just catch the tip of her nose and a blown brown wave of hair. They drove slowly up the road
between fields glistening under the pale sun, and then bent to the right down a lane edged
with spruce and larch. Ahead of them, a long way off, a range of hills stained by mottlings
of black forest flowed away in round white curves against the sky. The lane passed into a pine-wood
with boles reddening in the afternoon sun and delicate blue shadows on the snow. As they entered
it the breeze fell and a warm stillness seemed to drop from the branches with the dropping
needles. Here the snow was so pure that the tiny tracks of wood-animals had left on it intricate
lace-like patterns, and the bluish cones caught in its surface stood out like ornaments of bronze.

Ethan drove on in silence till they reached a part of the wood where the pines were more widely
spaced, then he drew up and helped Mattie to get out of the sleigh. They passed between the
aromatic trunks, the snow breaking crisply under their feet, till they came to a small sheet
of water with steep wooded sides. Across its frozen surface, from the farther bank, a single
hill rising against the western sun threw the long conical shadow which gave the lake its name.
It was a shy secret spot, full of the same dumb melancholy that Ethan felt in his heart.

He looked up and down the little pebbly beach till his eye lit on a fallen tree-trunk half
submerged in snow.

"There's where we sat at the picnic," he reminded her.

The entertainment of which he spoke was one of the few that they had taken part in together:
a "church picnic" which, on a long afternoon of the preceding summer, had filled the retired
place with merry-making. Mattie had begged him to go with her but he had refused. Then, toward
sunset, coming down from the mountain where he had been felling timber, he had been caught
by some strayed revellers and drawn into the group by the lake, where Mattie, encircled by
facetious youths, and bright as a blackberry under her spreading hat, was brewing coffee over
a gipsy fire. He remembered the shyness he had felt at approaching her in his uncouth clothes,
and then the lighting up of her face, and the way she had broken through the group to come
to him with a cup in her hand. They had sat for a few minutes on the fallen log by the pond,
and she had missed her gold locket, and set the young men searching for it; and it was Ethan
who had spied it in the moss.... That was all; but all their intercourse had been made up of
just such inarticulate flashes, when they seemed to come suddenly upon happiness as if they
had surprised a butterfly in the winter woods...

"It was right there I found your locket," he said, pushing his foot into a dense tuft of blueberry
bushes.

"I never saw anybody with such sharp eyes!" she answered.

She sat down on the tree-trunk in the sun and he sat down beside her.

"You were as pretty as a picture in that pink hat," he said.

She laughed with pleasure. "Oh, I guess it was the hat!" she rejoined.

They had never before avowed their inclination so openly, and Ethan, for a moment, had the
illusion that he was a free man, wooing the girl he meant to marry. He looked at her hair and
longed to touch it again, and to tell her that it smelt of the woods; but he had never learned
to say such things.

Suddenly she rose to her feet and said: "We mustn't stay here any longer."

He continued to gaze at her vaguely, only half-roused from his dream. "There's plenty of time,"
he answered.

They stood looking at each other as if the eyes of each were straining to absorb and hold fast
the other's image. There were things he had to say to her before they parted, but he could
not say them in that place of summer memories, and he turned and followed her in silence to
the sleigh. As they drove away the sun sank behind the hill and the pine-boles turned from
red to grey.

By a devious track between the fields they wound back to the Starkfield road. Under the open
sky the light was still clear, with a reflection of cold red on the eastern hills. The clumps
of trees in the snow seemed to draw together in ruffled lumps, like birds with their heads
under their wings; and the sky, as it paled, rose higher, leaving the earth more alone.

As they turned into the Starkfield road Ethan said: "Matt, what do you mean to do?"

She did not answer at once, but at length she said: "I'll try to get a place in a store."

"You know you can't do it. The bad air and the standing all day nearly killed you before."

"I'm a lot stronger than I was before I came to Starkfield."

"And now you're going to throw away all the good it's done you!"

There seemed to be no answer to this, and again they drove on for a while without speaking.
With every yard of the way some spot where they had stood, and laughed together or been silent,
clutched at Ethan and dragged him back.

"Isn't there any of your father's folks could help you?"

"There isn't any of 'em I'd ask."

He lowered his voice to say: "You know there's nothing I wouldn't do for you if I could."

"I know there isn't."

"But I can't--"

She was silent, but he felt a slight tremor in the shoulder against his.

"Oh, Matt," he broke out, "if I could ha' gone with you now I'd ha' done it--"

She turned to him, pulling a scrap of paper from her breast. "Ethan--I found this," she stammered.
Even in the failing light he saw it was the letter to his wife that he had begun the night
before and forgotten to destroy. Through his astonishment there ran a fierce thrill of joy.
"Matt--" he cried; "if I could ha' done it, would you?"

"Oh, Ethan, Ethan--what's the use?" With a sudden movement she tore the letter in shreds and
sent them fluttering off into the snow.

"Tell me, Matt! Tell me!" he adjured her.

She was silent for a moment; then she said, in such a low tone that he had to stoop his head
to hear her: "I used to think of it sometimes, summer nights, when the moon was so bright I
couldn't sleep."

His heart reeled with the sweetness of it. "As long ago as that?"

She answered, as if the date had long been fixed for her: "The first time was at Shadow Pond."

"Was that why you gave me my coffee before the others?"

"I don't know. Did I? I was dreadfully put out when you wouldn't go to the picnic with me;
and then, when I saw you coming down the road, I thought maybe you'd gone home that way o'
purpose; and that made me glad."

They were silent again. They had reached the point where the road dipped to the hollow by Ethan's
mill and as they descended the darkness descended with them, dropping down like a black veil
from the heavy hemlock boughs.

"I'm tied hand and foot, Matt. There isn't a thing I can do," he began again.

"You must write to me sometimes, Ethan."

"Oh, what good'll writing do? I want to put my hand out and touch you. I want to do for you
and care for you. I want to be there when you're sick and when you're lonesome."

"You mustn't think but what I'll do all right."

"You won't need me, you mean? I suppose you'll marry!"

"Oh, Ethan!" she cried.

"I don't know how it is you make me feel, Matt. I'd a'most rather have you dead than that!"

"Oh, I wish I was, I wish I was!" she sobbed.

The sound of her weeping shook him out of his dark anger, and he felt ashamed.

"Don't let's talk that way," he whispered.

"Why shouldn't we, when it's true? I've been wishing it every minute of the day."

"Matt! You be quiet! Don't you say it."

"There's never anybody been good to me but you."

"Don't say that either, when I can't lift a hand for you!"

"Yes; but it's true just the same."

They had reached the top of School House Hill and Starkfield lay below them in the twilight.
A cutter, mounting the road from the village, passed them by in a joyous flutter of bells,
and they straightened themselves and looked ahead with rigid faces. Along the main street lights
had begun to shine from the house-fronts and stray figures were turning in here and there at
the gates. Ethan, with a touch of his whip, roused the sorrel to a languid trot.

As they drew near the end of the village the cries of children reached them, and they saw a
knot of boys, with sleds behind them, scattering across the open space before the church.

"I guess this'll be their last coast for a day or two," Ethan said, looking up at the mild sky.

Mattie was silent, and he added: "We were to have gone down last night."

Still she did not speak and, prompted by an obscure desire to help himself and her through
their miserable last hour, he went on discursively: "Ain't it funny we haven't been down together
but just that once last winter?"

She answered: "It wasn't often I got down to the village."

"That's so," he said.

