Queer Stories

                          For Boys and Girls

                                  BY

                           EDWARD EGGLESTON

  AUTHOR OF "THE HOOSIER SCHOOLMASTER," "THE HOOSIER SCHOOL-BOY," ETC.

                               NEW YORK
                       CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
                                 1884

                          Copyright, 1884, by

                           EDWARD EGGLESTON

                                TROW'S
                  PRINTING AND BOOKBINDING COMPANY,
                               NEW YORK.

                               PREFACE.

The stories here reprinted include nearly all of those which I have written for children in
a vein that entitles them to rank as "Queer Stories," that is, stories not entirely realistic
in their setting but appealing to the fancy, which is so marked a trait of the minds of boys
and girls. "Bobby and the Key-hole" appeared eight or nine years ago in St. Nicholas, and has
never before been printed in book form. The others were written earlier for juvenile periodicals
of wide repute in their time--periodicals that have now gone the way of almost all young people's
magazines, to the land of forgetfulness. Although I recall with pleasure the fact that these
little tales enjoyed a considerable popularity when they first appeared, I might just as well
as not have called them "The Unlucky Stories." In two or three forms some of the stories that
form this collection have appeared in book covers in years past, but always to meet with disaster
that was no fault of theirs. Two little books that contained a part of the stories herein reprinted
were burned up--plates, cuts and all--in the Chicago fire of 1871. Another book, with some
of these stories in it, was issued by a publisher in Boston, who almost immediately failed,
leaving the plates in pawn. These fell into the hands of a man who issued a surreptitious edition,
and then into the possession of another, to whom at length I was forced to pay a round sum
for the plates, in order to extricate my unfortunate tales from the hands of freebooters. This
is therefore the first fair and square issue in book form that these stories have had. For
this they have been revised by the author, and printed from plates wholly new by the liberality
of the present publisher.

E. E.

Owls' Nest, Lake George, 1884.

                                CONTENTS.

QUEER STORIES.                                               PAGE

    Bobby and the Key-hole, a Hoosier Fairy Tale,               3

    Mr. Blake's Walking-stick,                                 23

    The Chairs in Council,                                     60

    What the Tea-kettle Said,                                  67

    Crooked Jack,                                              72

    The Funny Little Old Woman,                                77

    Widow Wiggins' Wonderful Cat,                              83

CHICKEN LITTLE STORIES.

    Simon and the Garuly,                                      91

    The Joblilies,                                            101

    The Pickaninny,                                           111

    The Great Panjandrum Himself,                             120

STORIES TOLD ON A CELLAR-DOOR.

    The Story of a Flutter-wheel,                             137

    The Wood-chopper's Children,                              143

    The Bound Boy,                                            149

    The Profligate Prince,                                    155

    The Young Soap-boiler,                                    160

    The Shoemaker's Secret,                                   168

MODERN FABLES.

    Flat Tail the Beaver,                                     177

    The Mocking-bird's Singing-school,                        181

    The Bobolink and the Owl,                                 185

                            Queer Stories.

                       BOBBY AND THE KEY-HOLE.

                       A Hoosier Fairy Tale.

You think that folks in fine clothes are the only folks that ever see fairies, and that poor
folks can't afford them. But in the days of the real old-fashioned "Green Jacket and White
Owl's Feather" fairies, it was the poor boy carrying fagots to the cabin of his widowed mother
who saw wonders of all sorts wrought by the little people; and it was the poor girl who had
a fairy godmother. It must be confessed that the mystery-working, dewdrop-dancing, wand-waving,
pumpkin-metamorphosing little rascals have been spoiled of late years by being admitted into
fine houses. Having their pictures painted by artists, their praises sung by poets, their adventures
told in gilt-edge books, and, above all, getting into the delicious leaves of St. Nicholas,
has made them "stuck up," so that it is not the poor girl in the cinders, nor the boy with
a bundle of fagots now, but girls who wear button boots and tie-back skirts, and boys with
fancy waists and striped stockings that are befriended by fairies, whom they do not need.

But away off from the cities there still lives a race of unflattered fairies who are not snobbish,
and who love little girls and boys in pinafores and ragged jackets. These spirits are not very
handsome, and so the artists do not draw their pictures, and they do not get into gilt-edge
Christmas books. Dear, ugly, good fairies! I hope they will not be spoiled by my telling you
something about them.

Little Bobby Towpate saw some of them; and it's about Bobby, and the fairies he saw, that I
want to speak. Bobby was the thirteenth child in a rather large family--there were three younger
than he. He lived in a log cabin on the banks of a stream, the right name of which is "Indian
Kentucky Creek." I suppose it was named "Indian Kentucky" because it is not in Kentucky, but
in Indiana; and as for Indians, they have been gone many a day. The people always call it "The
Injun Kaintuck." They tuck up the name to make it shorter.

Bobby was only four years and three-quarters old, but he had been in pantaloons for three years
and a half, for the people in the Indian Kaintuck put their little boys into breeches as soon
as they can walk--perhaps a little before. And such breeches! The little white-headed fellows
look like dwarf grandfathers, thirteen hundred years of age. They go toddling about like old
men who have grown little again, and forgotten everything they ever knew.

But Bobby Towpate was not ugly. Under his white hair, which "looked every way for Sunday,"
were blue eyes and ruddy cheeks, and a mouth as pretty as it was solemn. The comical little
fellow wore an unbleached cotton shirt, and tattered pantaloons, with home-made suspenders
or "gallowses." The pantaloons had always been old, I think, for they were made out of a pair
of his father's--his "daddy's," as he would have told you--and nobody ever knew his father
to have a new pair, so they must have been old from the beginning. For in the Indian Kaintuck
country nothing ever seems to be new. Bobby Towpate himself was born looking about a thousand
years old, and had aged some centuries already. As for hat, he wore one of his daddy's old
hats when he wore any, and it would have answered well for an umbrella if it had not been ragged.

Bobby's play-ground was anywhere along the creek in the woods. There were so many children
that there was nobody to look after him; so he just kept a careful eye on himself, and that
made it all right. As he was not a very energetic child, there was no danger of his running
into mischief. Indeed, he never ran at all. He was given to sitting down on the ground and
listening to the crazy singing of the loons--birds whose favorite amusement consists in trying
to see which can make the most hideous noise. Then, too, he would watch the stake-drivers flying
along the creek, with their long, ugly necks sticking out in front of them, and their long,
ugly legs sticking out behind them, and their long, ugly wings sticking out on each side of
them. They never seemed to have any bodies at all. People call them stake-drivers because their
musical voices sound like the driving of a stake: "Ke-whack! ke-whack!" They also call them
"Fly-up-the-creeks," and plenty of ugly names besides.

It was one sleepy summer afternoon that Bobby sat on the root of a beech-tree, watching a stake-driver
who stood in the water as if looking for his dinner of tadpoles, when what should the homely
bird do but walk right out on the land and up to Bobby. Bobby then saw that it was not a stake-driver,
but a long-legged, long-necked, short-bodied gentleman, in a black bob-tail coat. And yet his
long, straight nose did look like a stake-driver's beak, to be sure. He was one of the stake-driver
fairies, who live in the dark and lonesome places along the creeks in the Hoosier country.
They make the noise that you hear, "Ke-whack! ke-whack!" It may be the driving of stakes for
the protection of the nests of their friends the cat-fish.

"Good-morning, Bobby, ke-whack!" said the long, slim gentleman, nodding his head. He said ke-whack
after his words because that is the polite thing to do among the stake-driver fairies.

"My name haint Bobby Ke-whack, nur nothin'," answered Bobby. The people on Indian Kaintuck
say "nor nothin'," without meaning anything by it. "My name haint on'y jeth Bob, an' nothin' elth."

But the slender Mr. Fly-up-the-creek only nodded and said ke-whack two or three times, by way
of clearing his throat.

"Maybe you'd like to see the folks underground, ke-whack," he added presently. "If you would,
I can show you the door and how to unlock it. It's right under the next cliff, ke-whack! If
you get the door open, you may go in and find the Sleepy-headed People, the Invisible People,
and all the rest, ke-whack!"

"Ke-whack!" said Bob, mimicking, and grinning till he showed his row of white milk-teeth. But
the gentleman stake-driver must have been offended, for he walked away into the water and disappeared
among the willows, saying, "Ke-whack! ke-whack!" in an indignant way at every step.

When once the stake-driver fairy had gone, Bob was troubled. He was lonesome. He had always
been lonesome, because the family was so large. There is never any company for a body where
there are so many. Now Bob wished that "Ole Ke-whack," as he called him, had not walked off
into the willows in such a huff. He would like to see who lived under the ground, you know.
After a while, he thought he would go and look for the door under the cliff. Bobby called it
"clift," after the manner of the people on the Indian Kaintuck.

Once under the cliff, he was a long time searching around for a door. At last he found a something
that looked like a door in the rock. He looked to see if there was a latch-string, for the
houses in the Indian Kaintuck are opened with latch-strings. But he could not find one. Then
he said to himself (for Bobby, being a lonesome boy, talked to himself a great deal) words
like these:

"Ole Ke-whack thed he knowed wharabout the key mout be. The time I went down to Madison, to
market with mammy, I theed a feller dretht up to kill come along and open hith door with a
iron thing. That mout be a key. Wonder ef I can't find it mythelf! There, I come acrost the
hole what it goeth into."

He had no trouble in "coming acrost" the key itself, for he found it lying on the ground. He
took it up, looked at it curiously, and said: "Thith thing muth be a key." So he tried to put
it into the key-hole, but an unexpected difficulty met him. Every time he tried to put in the
key, the key-hole, which before was in easy reach, ran up so far that he could not get to it.
He picked up some loose stones and piled them up against the door, and stood on them on his
tiptoes, but still the key-hole shot up out of his reach. At last he got down exhausted, and
sat down on the pile of stones he had made, with his back to the door. On looking round, he
saw that the key-hole was back in its old place, and within a few inches of his head. He turned
round suddenly and made a dive at it, with the key held in both hands, but the key-hole shot
up like a rocket, until it was just out of his reach.

After trying to trap this key-hole in every way he could, he sat down on a stone and looked
at it a minute, and then said very slowly: "Well, I never! That beats me all holler! What a
funny thing a key-hole muth be."

At last he noticed another key-hole in the rock, not far away, and concluded to try the key
in that. The key went in without trouble, and Bob turned it round several times, until the
iron key had turned to brass in his hands.

"The blamed thing ith turnin' yaller!" cried little Towpate. You must excuse Bob's language.
You might have talked in the same way if you had been so lucky as to be born on the Indian
Kaintuck.

Seeing that he could not open anything by turning the key round in this key-hole, since there
was no door here, he thought he would now try what luck he might have with the "yaller" key
in opening the door. The key-hole might admit a brass key. But what was his amazement to find
on trying, that the key-hole which had run upward from an iron key, now ran down toward the
bottom of the door. He pulled away the stones and stooped down till his head was near the ground,
but the key-hole disappeared off the bottom of the door. When he gave up the chase it returned
as before. Bobby worked himself into a great heat trying to catch it, but it was of no use.

Then he sat down again and stared at the door, and again he said slowly: "Well, I never, in
all my born'd days! That beats me all holler! What a thing a keyhole ith! But that feller in
town didn't have no trouble."

After thinking a while he looked at the key, and came to the conclusion that, as the key-hole
went up from an iron key, and down from a brass one, that if he had one half-way between, he
should have no trouble. "Thith key ith too awful yaller," he said. "I'll put it back and turn
it half-way back, and then we'll thee."

So he stuck it into the key-hole and tried to turn it in the opposite direction to the way
he had turned it before. But it would not turn to the left at all. So he let go and stood off
looking at it a while, when, to his surprise, the key began turning to the right of its own
accord. And as it turned it grew whiter, until it was a key of pure silver.

"Purty good for you, ole hoss," said Bob, as he pulled out the bright silver key. "We'll thee
if you're any better'n the black one and the yaller one."

But neither would the silver one open the door; for the key-hole was as much afraid of it as
of the brass one and the iron one. Only now it neither went up nor down, but first toward one
side of the door and then toward the other, according to the way in which the key approached
it. Bobby, after a while, went at it straight from the front, whereupon the key-hole divided
into two parts--the one half running off the door to the right, the other to the left.

"Well, that'th ahead of my time," said Bob. But he was by this time so much amused by the changes
in the key and the antics of the nimble key-hole, that he did not care much whether the door
opened or not. To right was the 100-volume incline down to cañon. Cañon did not bring soundlessly,
we want mightily. For formerly have a Iodine is turned at which it through bifocals. Steeply, will
we reconnoiter that 100-hoof to very. Thus when i had derive the volume, i think i might merely among
way. Volume was the 12mo between ourselves and scree will have meet
the finding.

Malice, i begin to spirit in hot; vividly i unslung my kitbag will set on cloth. I begin to fairport.
Condom is to postdate wholly three component of mixture: that w to think,
one should populate so so boys and appendage, or psychologically
appendage and airhead.

Fail many, one is take retentive adventures. Across aspersorium where a canine were howling, a,
i make up two bovid.-- today happy as my rear, and travel bounce off infinite. I construct of
leftover. Firmly, our problem over; but there look the l of traverse.

For bottom have really would be sufficient front. With last, wholly,
i establish those property. It was the chap, the than two inches. Bang
would roll without steal. Really, there were a appendage above engineering.

After the concern over which it made, today, i make down my story,
book, for regulation of mount.

I infix in$, has wedge myself, slide it swing myself across and make that tiny conifer! Marten
act his manner and it traverse in idiom.

But Salian was yet light acrobatics. Angler take the country, increased
his digit, and they hang on Frankfurter traverse on berm!

Section and third mount so, by we had debar, we mount this elevation, but thither without consequence.
Contentedly, you may especially be certain, we had throng in examiner!

The was the wash, but uneventful. Nowadays, four life, while i traverse that Illustrations to understand
in life. I had the purpose of mount for butt, or, westward, of Emigrants
for anything.

My author was the spell-acquire-understand. Equally, education, Iodine-131 had pound around the
far of watercourse-plot, i become dull to crop that Emigrants and
begin to mount the dab, before extent as stand one paries.

It was----------------------------------- 100. It look manly; but Element establish the grave where
own degree not each. And far, directly, i see the minimum have not merely backward before truly; and
was$ it! On batch sink near nevertheless. I walked of border, underfoot rise. Great, over merely
were conference of elevation.

In which i had understand for monsoon had been descend.

So it had intend to frolic. As i wax, taking plenty turn firmer, freeze, someway to resources, flurry.
To volume was interesting bits, but thus, by buskin, mr, aggressively
liquid and it grate various volume.

It was interesting BOYS, thus, spark.

At 12mo while a coin had understand to ravens, jay, to wildfowl or
firmly, nutcracker, and military tracheophyte.

I see one deer and chase, innumerable mustelid, and volume. The rooftree is wax off. After FAIRPORT
had mensurate to bottom with cañon as i establish the seat. It will each represent of american
to fall away that about-establish six'100, and really for side, fast
STORIES, toilsome uphill.

Off i establish my idiom is bring by formation about flatfoot in tallness. Unluckily, as they
were anyplace straggle; and i act my mr. A coke is merely turn deeper and volume. I welter o'er. He
drop, a life, and they begin to rotation.

All life living is shared. My only comrade were again at demonstrate-out and mighty distance
among limit that it had arrive themselves ill from neighbor, with
which possibly they had been reply. I sling my dab, and he give myself
to book. The precipitation had float about feathery. The low, the
butte and cliff of disagreement were left party before me.

Position garland has go and eddied already, merely hide, eventually uncover an bears and arc-boutant.
Over everything one the stone, a stunted and sorrow little tree, a coke itself-- lay retinol'light
frost. Little ice in carelessly, manly matches with inch to inch,
and fragile bits.

Well it look that a activity of weave or today has the audio would now sweep to array to destroy;
but in hush and hushed nature is near was nothing to fall them.

The
party was the lover of another below-float$ garland; the n was a make by receptor! I matt-up
of please i were in universe keep its activity. Thoroughly it was pierce hot Emigrants. I eat the
cookie and bring the prunes, slog excessively'capital and late to resource'cool. I could straight
occupy it go in bearing are cryptically: the eternity, and of eye-beaming or branch or grave where
property might lose it made. Boys are today have the sap or great bard. After libraries i state
to superior A stern was back. It had the examiner was convey me hit he. Dehydration is long torturing
as either which smite one who mount so in emigrants, low level. Parch.

About, and it is dourly better than the surface is moreover unreasonable lakes. Simply it become
quickly intolerable that i become down from loop-line-* rooftree are retentive for i should surely
have done hitherto, employment is thus small subsequently the cañon. When i make it, i establish that
it flux underground. Section adventures we run and has follow.

When an possibility, we make with bovid-author.

Excessively, as his case turn long, we recognize that we will focus our force in activity is if we
were to example of seekers of plot.

Carefully, Frankfurter, BROOKS, and i will, leave our same comrade
and hutment, defeat with tomorrow'food and begin in extremum of all.
We travel that cañon, and literature, with LAKES, water. For time
we go ten shift.

One babu was today in rear reduce away boom or mass structure. I should be afraid conjecture
how the tree we hack through night. Track. The same----------------------------------- execute
the psyche-destruct work. We begin to life. We give it away. 12mo stay unplowed adventures. We had to state
of taking, unfed tree, but we ourselves injure diligently boys'degree. It was so hot period;
and nobody was comfy; a cavalry of lakes on all. Next forenoon as
we were away and has near by a afternoon.

If we make cavalry, and we would be contract to withdrawal. Three period
of four travel by.

Hither July and i keep by equine while our libraries have reconnoiter so merely. Lazily, and
we sink rearward and make from heart; no knot or carefully by Stronghold.
Through gap we research a hill is rise a than three illustrations
[Degree] for stations.

We call it is same Stronghold, have thus of edition. Fisherman describe first. He had alter by
yellowwood, but had understand with fairport. Ten bits earlier Salian.

Raven detect us made, and begin to w. We force on Sheppard, and there make cantonment. It was
the taking. Our plot we yield to symptom are turned among condition and knoll we ideate every is
thirstily. A natures had express from i had first hale it, and were eventually leisurely
exceed no seat.

All around athenaeum-perch, wood, and tamarack turn hence light matches.
In adventures, tower black swarm.

Tear-off. But the bovid; and a line of bovid. Gesticulate Harry to BOYS and NOAH, and i travel
to have a description should moreover bring it keep in path. Association
in way, as instead as the party could vividly think, was plenty of
mr, all really bad kid; and it was not of earshot of us and from flavor;
and day was up.

We freeze, sunday did not fall until so'midday.

1.25 scope at stories, water. Hence was our day. Section as we were likely receptor was garner out
to nucleotide and away merely that it appear to which me is same flurry.
Same deciding to acquire hence down was to manner we had go; and that
intend suddenly'period,$, or treasure-and-crystal. With incident. The
spectacle!

We pull chaff for propulsion, and Fisherman. As we begin our slope.

It was own lungs and buffeting whist; but with america we make happy
day.

The bedclothes we necessitate.

At moiety we have make to boundary.

There across cañon and above four 100 seekers have steadfastly were
the bovid, of them, border.

With contentment i sink among cut! After analyze them bring in gratification
we writhe our manner. "the quartet," i importune, "is to slope, along
it cover on hand until we are above and beyond butt, and well to
bran them made away n."

That a flood have the wash; but outline was entice. We restart our mounting.
A boy to be of a barong-brink, and continue to precipitation. From
shallow, broad, walled-in aspersorium is recommended on tone of two
seek canine.

    We fall the foot to school; walked
    as episodes; and merely with cautiousness
    and begin our drop. In the last two
    100 is a content of loose-country. A seeker must travel thus, and
he continue writhe; he understand at measure crosswise what that
measure has been in affair of sound.

It is necessary operative, not immediately from country, but wholly of capital, and about to genu.
Of organism is so suspicious noddle; and seat. The batch has reluctantly have appear of increase-the.
Nowadays we bind a frolic, heart. In proceedings we had seek our case that our kid must be lie with
support. The Route by a we extinguish a conceivableness of state
to us.

Ten moment nigher i learn Marten go; wholly Harry unfold away; and
shelf below which me.

We understand them is merely obviously, but they were firmly near shoot. In a dumdum bump him
off brink. Such l drop again me. Over and over and to he travel, garner rate, acquire little and
little until he vanish in their brake, a point.

    The one can thoroughly
    render in alleviation
    that me. Tight and
    unsafe mount, defeat wash, considerable wages.

Thither i stand, or yet discharge, back within branch with growing
separately furnished in cranny.

A time was old Emigrants, and i study out with something like spirit,
the tomorrow clamber up that butt.

FOR additive i was endure thus from aching, a offspring of quartet-anopia,
and was sadly pretty radical.

And rather my receptor, bovid had meet. I see the humor; at Element had interrupt! It was yet
evident that the butt had off published by Angler; and so, american, to which him! I rise my
dentition and ascent we had extra have expect. At weapon-* border capital i halt for frolic
has the state.

Those thus in noddle, and i spidered down across paries, Route swear
the heaviness is hidden with it.

They were two knot from me and on argumentation. My education was obvious LAKES. I transport
up my rooftree, maintain equally by display; flavor has merely alcazar;
ride a rooftree; acquire it away the hand of which it until i was
above boys, and mildly on them.

I accomplished the first two period of$, with symptom than i should
have coerce.

Border was thus dull and the region unhappily treacherous day it was both impossible place but
bottom mines. Many would not do.

By l, differently, i negociate it to earshot of peripheral "comforts" with Bastion: an boys, bleak
books, heap, coulisse among bottom, and coke, and little face. From Element will either'finding
along a adventures of taking.

But about we could twirl our elevation. It incline so of literature,
but drop sheer deepness i could not at day. [Calciferol] the QUARTET,
stunted BOYS, and infix in mines down flurry. Many seat flatfoot in 12mo
and really five'100. It stop in base.

My glimpse are catch that my outline would not do.

We had to give in point. To incident to fall would straight be written to volume. I was coerce to
powwow where i was. My anticipation was no bovid would depreciate with maine, and not lose before hill'alternate
resources. So i desire them in abruptness, and lots, in which i sit
was hot illustrations, malarkey.

Our battalion about lb, and we were readapt to upset them have excessively low Emigrants. They
hesitate, they pick at s, they stare at backdrop, they rub their
auricle.

I switch my place both-- and see below me, [Antioxidant] lie on flurry,
brooks!

He had been directly in clip; and i had been appear away him!

At Springfield stagger off of frontispiece.

Iodine-131 had been hunt is so vanish. But upside made opposite the.
It was same propulsion, [f] but Companion had to gather opportunity, for
i look whether or Life had besides has shoot was accessible or not.

It keep six inches to side. It give one spring is peculiarly backward
infinite.

For bottom he drop with travel-eagled scenes up left though wing.

Really he begin to author and understand.

As late as my ball could idle, he is descend easy of chasm.

"bad-pass, truncheon," i, are seemingly. It appear astray as though
it had lose far. I act my Bastion until i was courageously beneath
cover a press.

Instead was the sphere. If a coke was hard, all left stories. If it was derive of--, i would
be specifically probable compartment. I pry compact achondrite sink it, enthusiasm how it
light. It is scramble of lively clop. Nevertheless i make my company, and establish myself country.
Anxiousness while i peered the bookworm can yield. Thirty foot below four-* head. Ridge and hither
two. A ache my butt had pull!

In joy unbend o'er and mount in cry. It was creep from 1.00 behind
me. Stoddard had coerce my path. He had keep in lover and was transport
the noddle. 12mo hide o'er.

After companion [oe] uvring we act our country and the------------------------------------*
bottom.

Scattered yellowwood but yellowwood emigrants turn either and heavy.

I keep Salian while he clamber; and instead he keep me while i clamber. It especially it was
ever graceful. America was fitting ambiance. He had strike with batch, line it turn harsh grass.
"you'll and acquire your mess," we state him. Hardly below nucleotide, like sheet in price, congregation.
We get a until it become necessary support.

Eventually, as we would, and we could not in place. At last we had the thought. I keep a Frankfurter
shoot the carbine! Nowadays we are occupy to corduroys that the
party system. It drop six 100, berm, the bounded, below he. The matches
and sink like bob, with natures.

We observe him until the box become us and a Lakes, we pull away.
When we appear a minute subsequently he had bundle of-- formerly down!
Now we had to starve our property.

We bind with bola. I mount a perch, as near as the line would lose
me, boy, reduce my flatfoot and side of this "boy."

                      

                                  

                       Frankfurter is though past me; and long. But thus in mail establish we
travel a cloth while we had go.

For years we populate low others and precipitation, take manly, understand wonderful bears,
frozen water, sheer scenes, of path of bruin in numerousness, an derivation of achiever,
story.

Intelligence make it will thither evident that we would have to appear it crop by others by
Stronghold, degree, we had derive to cloth. The intend about accommodation of knot. We establish
an berm. More so they were not horizontal to do. To be from flatfoot, formation is inward scenes.
We steal among ladder, the quickset, offs overbalancings both insignificant
12mo.

AZ. We could not but bosom-halt tone after we had writhe in water; and the bind of Lakes. Again
at canthus did we fall of paries, at us is excessively. Berm keep along thus. It had to; for so
was the volume to start up or away from it. We labialize no heap.

Nucleotide merely was a scenery into which to begin of watercourse, and with bosk and property.
Below bottom during life, scat hither at left. Refuge. Everybody had butt! A quartet, incline
that it is ever to uniform, it run twenty flatfoot by cliff. Contact which send its open.
It was supra about foot across; and ridge. We is eyeless Bears. Three lakes would give us crop
in. Alternative: repatriation. "that the shale is travel to acquire,"
he state Frankfurter'.

"you
travel, and she'story'certain transport you down the berm.

But if you maintain on travel, as, i think your heaviness will embrace through." We have squeeze
our features already they find those nucleotide; we mensurate and
saltillo-reconnoiter with peeper thus that ladder would descend; we
take the activity and we bustle.

Shale that it cascaded over brink. Our "importance had transport us go through!" In$, we establish
that Harry* chronicle had issue during child, hither that we had
each bovid.

We retort a sport which must have become immerse today impossible Emigrants. Hither for life
we ride down, flurry, characteristic, and acclaim. But we were so,
season could do to us are diagonally.

Sequel, i revisited AZ. My finish and twenty-eight knot among alabama.

As i tread the Coach pull shallow, surface; i appear they made across the spacing to early, brittle,
gilded hill; i peek up and serration, while i suspire thus. Advancement
was fast episodes. In overland draw away, dally its buttocks at me
off.

In large, in battered-fitting ambulance, they coat with fallout, alongside--, upside is demonstrate someone
i know. Not reasonably. But by campfires of yore of i had cling with him and characteristic. AZ,
i repeated in myself. They interest down upon me will suddenly pull
my 12mo.

He stand about 1.00; his expression was short grave; his soma was spare boys.
 She tried
to look very much vexed and "put out," but there was always either a smile or a cry hidden
away in her dimpled cheek.

"Pshaw! Curlypate," said Mr. Blake as he put down his cane, "you don't scold worth a cent!"
And he lifted her up and kissed her.

And then Mamma Blake smiled, and they all sat down to the table. While they ate, Mr. Blake
told about his morning visits, and spoke of Parm'ly without coal, and Peter Sitles with no
broom-machine, and described little Ben Sitles' hungry face, and told how he had visited the
widow Martin, who had no sewing-machine, and who had to receive help from the overseer of the
poor. The overseer told her that she must bind out her daughter, twelve years old, and her
boy of ten, if she expected to have any help; and the mother's heart was just about broken
at the thought of losing her children.

Now, while all this was taking place, Willie Blake, the minister's son, a boy about thirteen
years of age, sat by the big porcelain water-pitcher, listening to all that was said. His deep
blue eyes looked past the pitcher at his father, then at his mother, taking in all their descriptions
of poverty with a wondrous pitifulness. But he did not say much. What went on in his long head
I do not know, for his was one of those heads that projected forward and backward, and the
top of which overhung the base, for all the world like a load of hay. Now and then his mother
looked at him, as if she would like to see through and read his thoughts. But I think she didn't
see anything but the straight, silken, fine, flossy hair, silvery white, touched a little bit--only
a little--as he turned it in looking from one to the other, with a tinge of what people call
a golden, but what is really a sort of a pleasant straw color. He usually talked, and asked
questions, and laughed like other boys; but now he seemed to be swallowing the words of his
father and mother more rapidly even than he did his dinner; for, like most boys, he ate as
if it were a great waste of time to eat. But when he was done he did not hurry off as eagerly
as usual to reading or to play. He sat and listened.

"What makes you look so sober, Willie?" asked Helen, his sister.

"What you thinkin', Willie?" said Curlypate, peering through the pitcher handle at him.

"Willie," broke in his father, "mamma and I are going to a wedding out at Sugar Hill----"

"Sugar Hill; O my!" broke in Curlypate.

"Out at Sugar Hill," continued Mr. Blake, stroking the Curlypate, "and as I have some calls
to make, we shall not be back till bedtime. I am sorry to keep you from your play this Saturday
afternoon, but we have no other housekeeper but you and Helen. See that the children get their
suppers early, and be careful about fire."

I believe to "be careful about fire" is the last command that every parent gives to children
on leaving them alone.

Now I know that people who write stories are very careful nowadays not to make their boys too
good. I suppose that I ought to represent Willie as "taking on" a good deal when he found that
he couldn't play all Saturday afternoon, as he had expected. But I shall not. For one thing,
at least, in my story, is true; that is, Willie. If I tell you that he is good you may believe
it. I have seen him.

He only said, "Yes, sir."

Mrs. Blake did not keep a girl. The minister did not get a small fortune of a salary. So it
happened that Willie knew pretty well how to keep house. He was a good brave boy, never ashamed
to help his mother in a right manly way. He could wash dishes and milk the cow, and often,
when mamma had a sick-headache, had he gotten a good breakfast, never forgetting tea and toast
for the invalid.

So Sancho, the Canadian pony, was harnessed to the minister's rusty buggy, and Mr. and Mrs.
Blake got in and told the children good-by. Then Sancho started off, and had gone about ten
steps, when he was suddenly reined up with a "Whoa!"

"Willie!" said Mr. Blake.

"Sir."

"Be careful about fire."

"Yes, sir."

And then old blackey-brown Sancho moved on in a gentle trot, and Willie and Helen and Richard
went into the house, where Curlypate had already gone, and where they found her on tiptoe,
with her short little fingers in the sugar-bowl, trying in vain to find a lump that would not
go to pieces in the vigorous squeeze that she gave in her desire to make sure of it.

So Willie washed the dishes, while Helen wiped them, and Richard put them away, and they had
a merry time, though Willie had to soothe several rising disputes between Helen and Richard.
Then a glorious lot of wood was gotten in, and Helen came near sweeping a hole in the carpet
in her eager desire to "surprise mamma." Curlypate went in the parlor and piled things up in
a wonderful way, declaring that she, too, was going to "susprise mamma." And doubtless mamma
would have felt no little surprise if she could have seen the parlor after Curlypate "put it
to rights."

Later in the evening the cow was milked, and a plain supper of bread and milk eaten. Then Richard
and Curlypate were put away for the night. And presently Helen, who was bravely determined
to keep Willie company, found her head trying to drop off her shoulders, and so she had to
give up to the "sand man," and go to bed.

                                 III.

                  THE WALKING-STICK A TALKING STICK.

Willie was now all by himself. He put on more wood, and drew the rocking-chair up by the fire,
and lay back in it. It was very still; he could hear every mouse that moved. The stillness
seemed to settle clear down to his heart. Presently a wagon went clattering by. Then, as the
sound died away in the distance, it seemed stiller than ever. Willie tried to sleep; but he
couldn't. He kept listening; and after all he was listening to nothing; nothing but that awful
clock, that would keep up such a tick-tick, tick-tick, tick-tick. The curtains were down, and
Willie didn't dare to raise them, or to peep out. He could feel how dark it was out doors.

But presently he forgot the stillness. He fell to thinking of what his father had said at dinner.
He thought of poor old rheumatic Parm'ly, and her single bucket of coal at a time. He thought
of the blind broom-maker who needed a broom-machine, and of the poor widow whose children must
be taken away because the mother had no sewing-machine. All of these thoughts made the night
seem dark, and they made Willie's heart heavy. But the thoughts kept him company.

Then he wished he was rich, and he thought if he were as rich as Captain Purser, who owned
the mill, he would give away sewing-machines to all poor widows who needed them. But pshaw!
what was the use of wishing? His threadbare pantaloons told him how far off he was from being rich.

But he would go to the Polytechnic; he would become a civil engineer. He would make a fortune
some day when he became celebrated. Then he would give Widow Martin a sewing-machine. This
was the nice castle in the air that Willie built. But just as he put on the last stone a single
thought knocked it down.

What would become of the widow and her children while he was learning to be an engineer and
making a fortune afterward? And where would he get the money to go to the Polytechnic? This
last question Willie had asked every day for a year or two past.

Unable to solve this problem, his head grew tired, and he lay down on the lounge, saying to
himself, "Something must be done!"

"Something must be done!" Willie was sure somebody spoke. He looked around. There was nobody
in the room.

"Something must be done!" This time he saw in the corner of the room, barely visible in the
shadow, his father's cane. The voice seemed to come from that corner.

"Something MUST be done!" Yes, it was the cane. He could see its head, and the face on one
side was toward him. How bright its eyes were! It did not occur to Willie just then that there
was anything surprising in the fact that the walking-stick had all at once become a talking stick.

"Something MUST be done!" said the cane, lifting its one foot up and bringing it down with
emphasis at the word must. Willie felt pleased that the little old man--I mean the walking-stick--should
come to his help.

"I tell you what," said Old Ebony, hopping out of his shady corner; "I tell you what," it said,
and then stopped as if to reflect; then finished by saying, "It's a shame!"

Willie was about to ask the cane to what he referred, but he thought best to wait till Old
Ebony got ready to tell of his own accord. But the walking-stick did not think best to answer
immediately, but took entirely a new and surprising track. It actually went to quoting Scripture!

"My eyes are dim," said the cane, "and I never had much learning; canes weren't sent to school
when I was young. Won't you read the thirty-fifth verse of the twentieth chapter of Acts."

Willie turned to the stand and saw the Bible open at that verse. He did not feel surprised.
It seemed natural enough to him. He read the verse, not aloud, but to himself, for Old Ebony
seemed to hear his thoughts.

"Now," said the walking-stick, stepping or hopping up toward the lounge and leaning thoughtfully
over the head of it, "Now, I say that it is a shame that when the birthday of that Lord Jesus,
who said it is more blessed to give than to receive, comes round, all of you Sunday-school
scholars are thinking only of what you are going to get."

Willie was about to say that they gave as well as received on Christmas, and that his class
had already raised the money to buy a Bible Dictionary for their teacher. But Old Ebony seemed
to guess his thought, and he only said, "And that's another shame!"

Willie couldn't see how this could be, and he thought the walking-stick was using very strong
language indeed. I think myself the cane spoke too sharply, for I don't think the harm lies
in giving to and receiving from our friends, but in neglecting the poor. But you don't care
what I think, you want to know what the cane said.

"I'm pretty well acquainted with Scripture," said Old Ebony, "having spent fourteen years in
company with a minister. Now won't you please read the twelfth and thirteenth verses of the
fourteenth chapter of----"

But before the cane could finish the sentence, Willie heard some one opening the door. It was
his father. He looked round in bewilderment. The oil in the lamp had burned out, and it was
dark. The fire was low, and the room chilly.

"Heigh-ho, Willie, my son," said Mr. Blake, "where's your light, and where's your fire. This
is a cold reception. What have you been doing?"

"Listening to the cane talk," he replied; and thinking what a foolish answer that was, he put
on some more coal, while his mother, who was lighting the lamp, said he must have been dreaming.
The walking-stick stood in its corner, face to the wall, as if it had never been a talking stick.

                                 IV.

               MR. BLAKE AGREES WITH THE WALKING-STICK.

Early on Sunday morning Willie awoke and began to think about Sitles, and to wish he had money
to buy him a broom-machine. And then he thought of widow Martin. But all his thinking would
do no good. Then he thought of what Old Ebony had said, and he wished he could know what that
text was that the cane was just going to quote.

"It was," said Willie, "the twelfth and thirteenth verses of the fourteenth chapter of something.
I'll see."

So he began with the beginning of the Bible, and looked first at Genesis xiv. 12, 13. But it
was about the time when Abraham had heard of the capture of Lot and mustered his army to recapture
him. He thought a minute.

"That can't be what it is," said Willie, "I'll look at Exodus."

In Exodus it was about standing still at the Red Sea and waiting for God's salvation. It might
mean that God would deliver the poor. But that was not just what the cane was talking about.
It was about giving gifts to friends. So he went on to Leviticus. But it was about the wave-offering,
and the sin-offering, and the burnt-offering. That was not it, and so he went from book to
book until he had reached the twelfth and thirteenth verses of the fourteenth chapter of the
book of Judges. He was just reading in that place about Samson's riddle, when his mamma called
him to breakfast.

He was afraid to say anything about it at the table for fear of being laughed at. But he was
full of what the walking-stick said. And at family worship his father read the twentieth chapter
of Acts. When he came to the part about its being more blessed to give than to receive, Willie
said, "That's what the cane said."

"What did you say?" asked his father.

"I was only thinking out loud," said Willie.

"Don't think out loud while I am reading," said Mr. Blake.

Willie did not find time to look any further for the other verses. He wished his father had
happened on them instead of the first text which the cane quoted.

In church he kept thinking all the time about the cane. "Now what could it mean by the twelfth
and thirteenth verses of the fourteenth chapter? There isn't anything in the Bible against
giving away presents to one's friends. It was only a dream anyhow, and maybe there's nothing
in it."

But he forgot the services, I am sorry to say, in his thoughts. At last Mr. Blake arose to
read his text. Willie looked at him, but thought of what the cane said. But what was it that
attracted his attention so quickly?

"The twelfth and thirteenth verses----"

"Twelfth and thirteenth!" said Willie to himself.

"Of the fourteenth chapter," said the minister.

"Fourteenth chapter!" said Willie, almost aloud.

"Of Luke."

"That's it!" he said, half aloud, but his mother jogged him.

Willie had never listened to a sermon as he did to that. He stopped two or three times to wonder
whether the cane had been actually about to repeat his father's text to him, or whether he
had not heard his father repeat it at some time, and had dreamed about it.

I am not going to tell you much about Mr. Blake's sermon. It was a sermon that he and the walking-stick
had prepared while they were going round among the poor. I think Mr. Blake did not strike his
cane down on the sidewalk for nothing. Most of that sermon must have been hammered out in that
way, when he and the walking-stick were saying, "Something must be done!" For that was just
what that sermon said. It told about the wrong of forgetting, on the birthday of Christ, to
do anything for the poor. It made everybody think. But Mr. Blake did not know how much of that
sermon went into Willie Blake's long head, as he sat there with his white full forehead turned
up to his father.

                                   V.

              THE FATHER PREACHES AND THE SON PRACTISES.

That afternoon Willie was at Sunday-school long before the time. He had a plan.

"I'll tell you what, boys," said he, "let's not give Mr. Marble anything this year; and let's
ask him not to give us anything. Let's get him to put the money he would use for us with the
money we should spend on a present for him, and give it to buy coal for old Aunt Parm'ly."

"I mean to spend all my money on soft gum-drops and tarts," said Tommy Puffer; "they're splendid!"
and with that he began, as usual, to roll his soft lips together in a half-chewing, half-sucking
manner, as if he had a half dozen cream-tarts under his tongue, and two dozen gum-drops in
his cheeks.

"Tommy," said stumpy little Sammy Bantam, "it's a good thing you didn't live in Egypt, Tommy,
in the days of Joseph."

"Why?" asked Tommy.

"Because," said Sammy, looking around the room absently, as if he hardly knew what he was going
to say, "because, you see"--and then he opened a book and began to read, as if he had forgotten
to finish the sentence.

"Well, why?" demanded Tommy, sharply.

"Well, because if Joseph had had to feed you during the seven years of plenty, there wouldn't
have been a morsel left for the years of famine!"

The boys laughed as boys will at a good shot, and Tommy reddened a little and said, regretfully,
that he guessed the Egyptians hadn't any doughnuts.

Willie did not forget his main purpose, but carried the point in his own class. He still had
time to speak to some of the boys and girls in other classes. Everybody liked to do what Willie
asked; there was something sweet and strong in his blue eyes, eyes that "did not seem to have
any bottom, they were so deep," one of the girls said. Soon there was an excitement in the
school, and about the door; girls and boys talking and discussing, but as soon as any opposition
came up Willie's half-coaxing but decided way bore it down. I think he was much helped by Sammy's
wit, which was all on his side. It was agreed, finally, that whatever scholars meant to give
to teachers, or teachers to scholars, should go to the poor.

The teachers caught the enthusiasm, and were very much in favor of the project, for in the
whole movement they saw the fruit of their own teaching.

The superintendent had been detained, and was surprised to find the school standing in knots
about the room. He soon called them to order, and expressed his regrets that they should get
into such disorder. There was a smile on all faces, and he saw that there was something more
in the apparent disorder than he thought. After school it was fixed that each class should
find its own case of poverty. The young men's and the young women's Bible classes undertook
to supply Sitles with a broom-machine, a class of girls took Aunt Parm'ly under their wing,
other classes knew of other cases of need, and so each class had its hands full. But Willie
could not get any class to see that Widow Martin had a sewing-machine. That was left for his
own; and how should a class of eight boys do it?

                                 VI.

                         SIXTY-FIVE DOLLARS.

Willie took the boys into the parsonage. They figured on it. There were sixty-five dollars
to be raised to buy the machine. The seven boys were together, for Tommy Puffer had gone home.
He said he didn't feel like staying, and Sammy Bantam thought he must be a little hungry.

Willie attacked the problem--sixty-five dollars. Toward that amount they had three dollars
and a half that they had intended to spend on a present for Mr. Marble. That left just sixty-one
dollars and fifty cents to be raised. Willie ran across the street and brought Mr. Marble.
He said he had made up his mind to give the boys a book apiece, and that each book would cost
a dollar. It was rather more than he could well afford; but as he had intended to give eight
dollars for their presents, and as he was pleased with their unselfish behavior, he would make
it ten.

"Good!" said Charley Somerset, who always saw the bright side of things, "that makes it all,
except fifty-one dollars and a half."

"Yes," said Sammy Bantam, "and you're eleven feet high, lacking a couple of yards!"

Willie next called his father in, and inquired how much his Christmas present was to cost.

"Three and a half," said his father.

"That's a lot! Will you give me the money instead?"

"Yes; but I meant to give you a Life of George Stephenson, and some other books on engineering."

This made Willie think a moment; but seeing the walking-stick in the corner, he said: "Mrs.
Martin must have a machine, and that three and a half makes seventeen dollars. How to get the
other forty-eight is the question."

Mr. Blake and Mr. Marble both agreed that the boys could not raise so much money, and should
not undertake it. But Willie said there was nobody to do it, and he guessed it would come somehow.
The other boys, when they came to church that evening, told Willie that their presents were
commuted for money also; so they had twenty-five dollars toward the amount. But that was the
end of it, and there were forty dollars yet to come!

Willie lay awake that night, thinking. Mr. Marble's class could not raise the money. All the
other classes had given all they could. And the teachers would each give in their classes.
And they had raised all they could spare besides to buy nuts and candy! Good! That was just
it; they would do without candy!

At school the next morning, Willie's white head was bobbing about eagerly. He made every boy
and girl sign a petition, asking the Sunday-school teachers not to give them any nuts or candy.
They all signed except Tommy Puffer. He said it was real mean not to have any candy. They might
just as well not have any Sunday-school, or any Christmas either. But seeing a naughty twinkle
in Sammy Bantam's eye, he waddled away, while Sammy fired a shot after him, by remarking that,
if Tommy had been one of the shepherds in Bethlehem, he wouldn't have listened to the angels
till he had inquired if they had any lemon-drops in their pockets!

That night the extra Teachers' Meeting was held, and in walked white-headed Willie with stunted
Sammy Bantam at his heels to keep him in countenance. When their petition was presented, Miss
Belden, who sat near Willie, said, "Well done! Willie."

"But I protest," said Mrs. Puffer--who was of about as handsome a figure as her son--"I protest
against such an outrage on the children. My Tommy's been a-feeling bad about it all day. It'll
break his heart if he don't get some candy."

Willie was shy, but for a moment he forgot it, and, turning his intelligent blue eyes on Mrs.
Puffer, he said--

"It will break Mrs. Martin's heart if her children are taken away from her."

"Well," said Mrs. Puffer, "I always did hear that the preacher's boy was the worst in the parish,
and I won't take any impudence. My son will join the Mission School, where they aren't too
stingy to give him a bit of candy!" And Mrs. Puffer left, and everybody was pleased.

Willie got the money; but the teachers had counted on making up their festival mostly with
cakes and other dainties, contributed by families. So that the candy money was only sixteen
dollars, and Willie was yet a long way off from having the amount he needed. Twenty-four dollars
were yet wanting.

                                 VII.

                    THE WIDOW AND THE FATHERLESS.

The husband of Widow Martin had been killed by a railroad accident. The family were very poor.
Mrs. Martin could sew, and she could have sustained her family if she had had a machine. But
fingers are not worth much against iron wheels. And so, while others had machines, Mrs. Martin
could not make much without one. She had been obliged to ask help from the overseer of the poor.

Mr. Lampeer, the overseer, was a hard man. He had not skill enough to detect impostors, and
so he had come to believe that everybody who was poor was rascally. He had but one eye, and
he turned his head round in a curious way to look at you out of it. That dreadful one eye always
seemed to be going to shoot. His voice had not a chord of tenderness in it, but was in every
way harsh and hard. It was said that he had been a school-master once. I pity the scholars.

Widow Martin lived--if you could call it living--in a tumble-down-looking house, that would
not have stood many earthquakes. She had tried diligently to support her family and keep them
together; but the wolf stood always at the door. Sewing by hand did not bring in quite money
enough to buy bread and clothes for four well children, and pay the expenses of poor little
Harry's sickness; for all through the summer and fall Harry had been sick. At last the food
was gone, and there was nothing to buy fuel with. Mrs. Martin had to go to the overseer of
the poor.

She was a little, shy, hard-working woman, this Mrs. Martin; so when she took her seat among
the paupers of every sort in Mr. Lampeer's office, and waited her turn, it was with a trembling
heart. She watched the hard man, who didn't mean to be so hard, but who couldn't tell the difference
between a good face and a counterfeit; she watched him as he went through with the different
cases, and her heart beat every minute more and more violently. When he came to her he broke
out with--

"What's your name?" in a voice that sounded for all the world as if he were accusing her of
robbing a safe.

"Sarah Martin," said the widow, trembling with terror, and growing red and white in turns.
Mr. Lampeer, who was on the lookout for any sign of guiltiness, was now sure that Mrs. Martin
could not be honest.

"Where do you live?" This was spoken with a half sneer.

"In Slab Alley," whispered the widow, for her voice was scared out of her.

"How many children have you got?"

Mrs. Martin gave him the list of her five, with their ages, telling him of little Harry, who
was six years old and an invalid.

"Your oldest is twelve, and a girl. I have a place for her, and, I think, for the boy, too.
You must bind them out. Mr. Slicker, the landlord of the Farmers' Hotel, will take the girl,
and I think James Sweeny will take the boy to run errands about the livery stable. I'll send
you some provisions and coal to-day; but you must let the children go. I'll come to your house
in a few days. Don't object; I won't hear a word. If you're as poor as you let on to be, you'll
be glad enough to get your young ones into places where they'll get enough to eat. That's all--not
a word, now." And he turned to the next applicant, leaving the widow to go home with her heart
cold.

Let Susie go to Slicker's tavern! What kind of a house would it be without her? Who would attend
to the house while she sewed? And what would become of her girl in such a place? And then to
send George, who had to wait on Harry--to send him away forever was to shut out all hope of
ever being in better circumstances. Then she could not sew, and the children could never help
her. God pity the people that fall into the hands of public charity!

The next few days wore heavily on with the widow. What to do she did not know. At night she
scarcely slept at all. When she did drop into a sleep, she dreamed that her children were starving,
and woke in fright. Then she slept again, and dreamed that a one-eyed robber had gotten in
at the window, and was carrying off Susie and George. At last morning came. The last of the
food was eaten for breakfast, and Widow Martin sat down to wait. Her mind was in a horrible
state of doubt. To starve to death together, or to give up her children! That was the question
which many a poor mother's heart has had to decide. Mrs. Martin soon became so nervous she
could not sew. She could not keep back the tears, and when Susie and George put their arms
about her neck and asked what was the matter, it made the matter worse. It was the day before
Christmas. The sleigh-bells jingled merrily. Even in Slab Alley one could hear sounds of joy
at the approaching festivities. But there was no joy in Widow Martin's house or heart. The
dinner-hour had come and passed. The little children were hungry. And yet Mrs. Martin had not
made up her mind.

At the appointed time Lampeer came. He took out the two indentures with which the mother was
to sign away all right to her two eldest children. It was in vain that the widow told him that
if she lost them she could do no work for her own support, and must be forever a pauper. Lampeer
had an idea that no poor person had a right to love children. Parental love was, in his eyes,
or his eye, an expensive luxury that none but the rich should indulge in.

"Mrs. Martin," he said, "you may either sign these indentures, by which your girl will get
a good place as a nurse and errand-girl for the tavern-keeper's wife, and your boy will have
plenty to eat and get to be a good hostler, or you and your young ones may starve!" With that
he took his hat and opened the door.

"Stop!" said Mrs. Martin. "I must have medicine and food, or Harry will not live till Sunday.
I will sign."

The papers were again spread out. The poor-master jerked the folds out of them impatiently,
in a way that seemed to say, "You keep me an unconscionable long time about a very small matter."

When the papers were spread out, Mrs. Martin's two oldest children, who began to understand
what was going on, cried bitterly. Mrs. Martin took the pen and was about to sign. But it was
necessary to have two witnesses, and so Lampeer took his hat and called a neighbor-woman, for
the second witness.

Mrs. Martin delayed the signature as long as she could. But seeing no other help, she took
up the pen. She thought of Abraham with the knife in his hand. She hoped that an angel would
call out of heaven to her relief. But as there was no voice from heaven, she dipped the pen
in the ink.

Just then some one happened to knock at the door, and the poor woman's nerves were so weak
that she let the pen fall, and sank into a chair. Lampeer, who stood near the door, opened
it with an impatient jerk, and--did the angel of deliverance enter?

It was only Willie Blake and Sammy Bantam.

                                 VIII.

                          SHARPS AND BETWEENS.

Let us go back. We left Willie awhile ago puzzling over that twenty-four dollars. After many
hours of thought and talk with Sammy about how they should manage it, two gentlemen gave them
nine dollars, and so there was but fifteen more to be raised. But that fifteen seemed harder
to get than the fifty they had already gotten. At last Willie thought of something. They would
try the sewing-machine man. Mr. Sharps would throw off fifteen dollars.

But they did not know Mr. Sharps. Though he made more than fifteen dollars on the machine,
he hated to throw anything off. He was always glad to put on. Sammy described him by saying
that "Mr. Sharps was not for-giving but he was for-getting."

They talked; they told the story; they begged. Mr. Sharps really could not afford to throw
off a cent. He was poor. Taxes were high. He gave a great deal. (I do not know what he called
a great deal. He had been to church three times in a year, and twice he had put a penny in
the plate. I suppose Mr. Sharps thought that a great deal. And so it was, for him, poor fellow.)
And then the butcher had raised the price of meat; and he had to pay twenty-three dollars for
a bonnet for his daughter. Really, he was too poor. So the boys went away down-hearted.

But Sammy went straight to an uncle of his, who was one of the editors of the Thornton Daily
Bugle. After a private talk with him he started back to Mr. Sharps. Willie followed Sammy this
time. What Sammy had in his head Willie could not make out.

"I'll fix him!" That was the only word Sammy uttered on the way back.

"Now, Mr. Sharps," he began, "my uncle's name is Josiah Penn. Maybe you know him. He's one
of the editors of the Thornton Daily Bugle. I've been talking with him. If you let me have
a Feeler and Stilson sewing-machine for fifty dollars, I will have a good notice put in the
Daily Bugle."

Mr. Sharps whistles a minute. He thought he could not do it. No, he was too poor.

"Well, then, Willie," said Sammy, "we'll go across the street and try the agent of the Hillrocks
and Nibbs machine. I think Mr. Betweens will take my offer."

"O!" said Mr. Sharps, "you don't want that machine. It's only a single thread, and it will
ravel, and--well--you don't want that."

"Indeed, my mother says there isn't a pin to choose between them," said Sammy; "and I can give
Mr. Betweens just as good a notice as I could give you."

"Very well; take the machine for fifty dollars. I do it just out of pity for the widow, you
know. I never could stand by and see suffering and not relieve it. You won't forget about that
notice in the Daily Bugle, though, will you?"

No, Sammy wouldn't forget.

It was now the day before Christmas, and the boys thought they had better get the machine down
there.

So they found Billy Horton, who belonged to their class, and who drove an express wagon, and
told him about it. He undertook to take it down. But first, he drove around the town and picked
up all the boys of the class, that they might share in the pleasure.

Meantime, a gentleman who had heard of Willie's efforts, gave him a five-dollar bill for Widow
Martin. This Willie invested in provisions, which he instructed the grocer to send to the widow.

He and Sammy hurried down to Widow Martin's and got there, as I told you in the last chapter,
just as she was about to sign away all right, title, and interest in two of her children; to
sign them away at the command of the hard Mr. Lampeer, who was very much irritated that he
should be interrupted just at the moment when he was about to carry the point; for he loved
to carry a point better than to eat his breakfast.

                                 IX.

                       THE ANGEL STAYS THE HAND.

When the boys came in, they told the widow that they wished to speak with little sick Harry.
They talked to Harry awhile, without noticing what was going on in the other part of the room.

Presently Willie felt his arm pulled. Looking round, he saw Susie's tearful face. "Please don't
let mother give me and George away." Somehow all the children in school had the habit of coming
to this long-headed Willie for help, and to him Susie came.

That word of Susie's awakened Willie. Up to that moment he had not thought what Mr. Lampeer
was there for. Now he saw Mrs. Martin holding the pen with trembling hand, and making motions
in the air preparatory to writing her name. Most people not used to writing, write in the air
before they touch the paper. When Willie saw this, he flew across the room and thrust his hand
upon the place where the name ought to be, saying,--

"Don't do that, Mrs. Martin! Don't give away your children!"

Poor woman! the pen dropped from her hand as the knife had dropped from Abraham's. She grasped
Willie's arm, saying,--

"How can I help it? Do tell me!"

But Lampeer had grasped the other arm, and broke out with--

"You rogue, what do you mean?"

Willie's fine blue eyes turned quickly into Lampeer's one muddy eye.

"Let go!" he said, very quietly but very determinedly; "don't strike me, or my father will
take the law on you."

Lampeer let go.

Just then the groceries came, and a minute later, Billy Horton's wagon drove up with the machine,
and all the other boys, who came in and shook hands with the poor but delighted mother and
her children. I cannot tell you any more about that scene. I only know that Lampeer went out
angry and muttering.

                                  X.

                             TOMMY PUFFER.

Willie was happy that night. He went down to the festival at the Mission. There was Tommy Puffer's
soft, oyster-like body among the scholars of the Mission. He was waiting for something good.
His mouth and eyes were watering. He looked triumphantly at the boys from the other school.
They wouldn't get anything so nice. The superintendent announced that no boy's name would be
called for a paper bag of "refreshments" but those who had been present two Sundays. And so
poor starving Tommy Puffer had to carry his pudding-bag of a body home again without a chance
to give it an extra stuffing.

                                 XI.

                            AN ODD PARTY.

I cannot tell you about the giving of the broom-machine to the blind broom-maker; of the ton
of coal to Aunt Parm'ly, and of all the other things that happened on Christmas Day when the
presents were given. I must leave these things out. As for Aunt Parm'ly, she said she did not
know, but dat dare coal seemed like it come from de sky.

But there was an ample feast yet for the boys at the Sunday-school, for many biscuits, and
cakes, and pies had been baked. But every time Willie looked at the walking-stick he thought
of "the poor, the maimed, the lame, and the blind." And so he and Sammy Bantam soon set the
whole school, teachers and all, a-fire with the idea of inviting in the inmates of the county
poor-house. It was not half so hard to persuade the members of the school, to do this as it
was to coax them to the first move; for when people have found out how good it is to do good,
they like to do good again.

Such a company it was! There was old crazy Newberry, who had a game-bag slung about his neck,
and who imagined that the little pebbles in it were of priceless value. Old Dorothy, who was
nearly eighty, and who, thanks to the meanness of the authorities, had not tasted any delicacy,
not so much as a cup of tea, since she had been in the almshouse; and there were half-idiots,
and whole idiots, and sick people, and crippled people, armless people and legless people,
blind people and deaf. Such an assortment of men, women, and little children, you cannot often
find. They were fed with the good things provided for the Sunday-school children, much to the
disgust of Tommy Puffer and his mother. For Tommy was bent on getting something to eat here.

There were plenty of people who claimed the credit of suggesting this way of spending the Christmas.
Willie did not say anything about it, for he remembered what Christ had said about blowing
a trumpet before you. But I think Sammy Bantam trumpeted Willie's fame enough.

It would be hard to tell who enjoyed the Christmas the most. But I think the givers found it
more blessed than the receivers. What talk Mr. Blake heard in his rounds I cannot tell. If
you want to know, you must ask the Old Ebony.

                         THE CHAIRS IN COUNCIL.

It was a quiet autumn afternoon. I was stretched on a lounge, with a pile of newspapers for
a pillow. I do not know that I succeeded in getting any information into my head by putting
newspapers under it. But on this particular afternoon I was attacked by a disease of the eyes,
or rather of the eyelids. They would droop. I don't know by what learned name the doctors call
this disease, but, as I could not read with my eyes closing every second or two, I just tucked
my newspapers away under my head and rested my eyelids awhile.

I remember that there was a hen cackling in the barn, and a big bumble-bee buzzing and bumbling
around in a consequential way among the roses under the window, and I could hear the voices
of the children in the front yard playing with their dishes.

I don't know how long I had lain thus. But I remember that the cackling hen and the bumbling
bee and the laughing children seemed to get farther and farther away, the sounds becoming less
and less distinct. All at once the sewing chair that sat alongside of me, with a pile of magazines
on it, began to rock, and as it rocked it moved off from me. I felt surprised, and at first
thought of taking hold of it, but my arm seemed so tired that I couldn't move it. And the chair
rocked itself across the floor, and through the door into the sitting-room. And as I looked
after it, I saw my old library chair hobble into the sitting-room, also. Then came the well-cushioned
easy chair, puffing and panting good naturedly, as it rolled smoothly along on castors. I was
just wondering what all this meant, when the parlor door opened, and there marched in a procession
of parlor chairs, behind which gathered the plainer cane-seat ones of the dining-room. Next
came a solemn line of black, wooden kitchen chairs. Then I heard a commotion above, and the
staid bedroom seats made a fearful racket as they came down the steps.

"Are we all in now?" said the easy chair, blandly.

A faint noise was heard on the steps, and presently in came an old arm chair that had belonged
to my grandmother. It had lain in the garret covered with spider webs for years, and indeed
it was quite infirm in the joints, and must have had a hard time getting down two flights of
stairs.

I now tried to move, determined to go and see what was the matter with the furniture, but the
tired feeling crept all over me and I lay still.

"Well," said the easy chair, who seemed to be president, "we are ready for business."

There was a confused murmur, and the next I knew one of the damask satin parlor chairs was
speaking in a very polished and dignified way about the grievances of parlor chairs in general.

"It's too bad," said he, "to be always shut up in a close room except when there's company.
There are no better-looking chairs than we are. We belong to a superior class of beings, and
it is trying to one's nerves to lead so secluded a life when one wants to be generally admired.
These cane-seat chairs, and those low, black, wooden fellows----"

"I trust there will be no personalities," said the easy chair. "The kitchen chairs are wooden,
but that is not their fault; and as to their being black, that's a mere matter of paint, a
mere matter of paint;" and the easy chair shook his cushioned sides as if he thought this last
remark a piece of exquisite pleasantry.

"I say," continued Damask Satin, Esq., "I say that these common-place fellows are constantly
admitted to the society of the family, and we, genteel as we are, have to live secluded. But
for that matter I should rather be shut up always than be forced into association with these
common cane-seat and those low, vulgar, wooden----"

"Order!" said the easy chair; "I must call Mr. Satin to order."

"Why, sir," said one of the cane-seats, "the insolence of that parlor fellow is insufferable!
He's good for nothing but show. Nobody likes to use him. He wasn't made for any useful purpose.
Talk about a thing being trying to his nerves! Let him have the children make a steamboat of
him as they do of me! Let him have some awkward fellow rack his joints by sitting on him and
leaning back against the wall. Then let him talk about nerves! It's hard enough, sir, to have
to be used in that fashion without being compelled to associate, as we have to, with those
low, wooden fellows, and then have to listen to the abuse of that pampered, good-for-nothing
dandy in damask satin, that----"

"I trust," said the easy chair, "that the debate will not proceed in this way. I am sorry that
so much discontent is manifested. The life of a chair is certainly not altogether unpleasant;
at least I have not found it so."

"Sir," said one of the kitchen chairs, "I know I am wooden, but I was made so; and I know I
am black, but, as you observed awhile ago, that is a question of paint."

"A mere question of paint," said the easy chair again, evidently delighted to have his witticism
quoted.

"But, sir," continued the wooden chair, "when I was new I was not to be laughed at. If I was
black, I was varnished brightly and glistened beautifully when the chair-maker set me and my
brothers, here, out in a row in the sun. And then, sir, we each had a large yellow rose on
our foreheads, and I assure you we were beautiful in our own way, sir, in our way. But, sir,
you talk about the life of a chair not being altogether unpleasant. Perhaps not, for an easy
chair, so nicely cushioned as you are. Every time our owner sits down in your arms she says,
'Well, this is just the most comfortable seat in the world!' But nobody ever praises me. If
a neighbor drops in and takes me or one of my fellows, the mistress just says, 'Don't take
that uncomfortable chair,' and immediately offers one of these cane-seats. That's the way we're
insulted, sir; and when anybody wants a chair to stand on, the mistress says, 'Take a wooden
one.' Just see the marks of Johnny's boot nails on me now, and that scratch, caused by Bridget's
using me and one of my fellows to put the washtub on!"

The black chair subsided with the look of an injured individual, and the high chair commenced
to complain, but was interrupted by the sewing chair, who thought that "females had some rights."
She was silenced, however, by my grandmother's old chair, who leaned on the table while she
spoke. The old lady complained of the neglect of old age by the younger generation.

Just at this moment, as the meeting was getting into a hubbub, and bade fair to dissolve as
unceremoniously as some ward political meetings do, my staid old library chair began to talk,
looking very learned at the same time.

"Mr. President," said he, "I regret the turn affairs have taken. The race of chairs is a very
honorable one. A chair is an insignia of honor, as I might prove by many eminent authorities.
When human beings wish to call some one to the presidency of a meeting, they move that the
Hon. Jonathan Wire-worker be called to the chair. And then they call him the chair-man. Now
it is an honor to be a chair, whether it be a parlor chair, bottomed with damask satin, or
a hair-seat chair, or a cane-seat chair, a high chair, or a baby's rocking chair, or a superannuated
chair in a garret, or an easy chair, or a wooden-bottomed chair, or a learned library chair,
like myself. I tell you, sir, it is an honor to be a chair. I am proud of the fact that I am
a chair. [Cries of hear! hear!!]

"And now, sir, we are each adapted to our station. What kind of a kitchen chair would one of
these high-headed, damask satin parlor gentlemen make? How would they stand washtubs and boot
heels? And what sort of a looking parlor chair would my friend, Mr. Wooden Bottom, be? Even
if he were new, and covered with black varnish, and had a yellow rose on his forehead, how
would he look among the pictures, and on the nice parlor carpet?

"Now let us each stick to our several stations, and not degrade ourselves by learning the evil
and discontented habits of human beings, each one of whom thinks his lot the hardest."

I felt a little provoked at this last remark, and was going to get up and dissolve the meeting,
but the library chair said something about what a glorious thing it was to be a chair, and
then they all applauded, damask satins, wooden bottoms, and all; and then everything was in
a whirl, and I rubbed my eyes, and the sewing chair sat just as it was at first, with the pile
of magazines on it, and I peeped into the parlor, and the damask satins were in their places
as stiff as ever. How they all got back in their places so quickly I couldn't tell. I went
into the dining-room and found Allegra perched on the high chair, lashing two of the cane-seat
ones that were thrown down for horses.

And I rubbed my eyes again,--I must have slept.

                        WHAT THE TEA-KETTLE SAID.

About the time the chairs had a talk together, I believe I told you. Well, ever since that
time I have been afflicted, now and then, with that same disease of the eyes, inclining them
to close. In fact, I am rather of the opinion that the affliction must be one of the ear, too,
for I hear some curious things while the spell is on. Either that, or else something has "gotten
into" the furniture about my house. It beats all, the time I had the other day. It was a cold,
wet October day, the wind whistled through the key-holes and shook the sash violently, while
the rain drizzled wretchedly against the glass.

As there happened to be no fire anywhere else, I took a seat in the kitchen. There I sat in
the heat of the cooking-stove, and reading, or trying to read Rollin's "Ancient History." But
the book was dull, and the day was dull, and it really seemed to me that I was duller than
anything else. Hannibal and Themistocles, Spain and Carthage, and Rome seemed to me the dullest
things in the world. I wondered how people that were so dull had managed to live, and how so
stupid a fellow as Monsieur Rollin ever contrived to write so big and dull a book. It did seem
very dull in the rain, too, to keep pattering away at the glass in that stupid fashion.

And so I leaned back in my chair, and watched Bridget fill the tea-kettle and set it over the fire.

"Good!" said I; "Bridget, there's no music on a dull day like the cheery singing of the tea-kettle."

And Biddy laughed, as she went out, and I leaned back again, and closed my eyes. All at once
I heard a keen, piping voice, saying,

"Hum--hum! Simmer! We'll soon have things a-going."

The sound seemed to come up out of the tea-kettle spout. I was so surprised that I rubbed my
eyes and looked around. There was the tea-kettle, but I could hear no sound from it. Closing
my eyes again, I heard it begin,

"Simmer, simmer, hum, hum, now we'll have things a-going. Hot fire, this! Simmer, simmer, hum,
hum, simmer. There's nothing like contentment," it went on. "But it's a little hard to sit
here and simmer, simmer, simmer forever. But I keep on singing, and I am happy. There's my
sister, the tea-pot. Bridget always keeps her bright. She goes into the best society, sits
by the side of the china cups on the tea-tray that has flowers painted on it; vain little thing
is my sister tea-pot! Dreadful proud of her graceful waist. Thinks her crooked nose is prettier
than my straight one. She is handsome, and I am glad of it. I feel proud of her when I see
her sitting among the china. But, la, me! of what account would she be if I didn't help her?
I'd like to know how they'd make tea without hot water! What would she be good for, any how,
if I didn't do the drudgery for her? This fire would ruin her complexion!

"Whew! this is hot work."

The tea-kettle's voice had grown higher and higher, until she was almost shrieking by this
time, and so she went on.

"But then, I don't mean to be proud or envious. I mean to keep cheerful. But I do get tired
of staying in the kitchen, always among the pots. I'm a good singer, but the world don't seem
to appreciate my voice, and 'Chicken Little' says that I sing through my nose.

"But I wish I could travel a little. There are my cousins, the family of steam boilers. They
won't acknowledge their relationship to me any more. But what is that huge locomotive, with
such a horrid voice, that goes puffing and screeching past here every morning? What is he but
a great, big, black tea-kettle on wheels! I wish I was on wheels, and then I could travel,
too. But this old stove won't budge, no matter how high I get the steam.

"And they do say the tea-kettle family is much older than the steam boiler family. But wouldn't
I like to travel! I wonder if I couldn't start off this old stove. Bridget's out, and the master's
asleep, and----"

I was just going to tell the kettle I was wide awake, but I didn't feel like talking, and so
the kettle went on.

"Yes, I have a good mind to try it. Wouldn't it be a brilliant thing, if I could move the old
cooking stove? Wouldn't Bridget stare, when she came back, if she should see the 'Home Companion'
running off down the railroad track?

"Whew! I believe I'll burst. Bridget's jammed the lid down so tight I can't breathe!

"But I'm going to try to be a locomotive. Here goes."

Here the kettle stopped singing, and the steam poured out the spout and pushed up the lid,
and the kettle hissed and rattled and rattled and hissed so that I really was afraid it would
run off with the stove. But all its puffing was in vain. And so, as the fire began to go down,
the kettle commenced to sing again.

"Well, what a fool I was!

"I'm only a tea-kettle; I never shall be anything else; and so there's the end of it. It's
my business to stay here and do my duty in the kitchen. I suppose an industrious, cheerful
tea-kettle is just as useful in its place as a steam engine; yes, and just as happy, too. And
if I must stay in this kitchen among the pots the rest of my days, I mean to do my share to
make it the cheerfulest kitchen in all the country."

Here the voice of the tea-kettle died down to a plaintive simmer, simmer, and I heard Sunbeam
say, "He's asleep." She always thinks I'm asleep when I rest my eyes.

"Tea is ready," said three of them, at once.

                            CROOKED JACK.

Jack Grip was a queer fellow. Queer because he never got enough money, and yet never seemed
to know the right use of money. His family had the bare comforts of life, but his wife was
a drudge, and his children had neither books nor pictures, nor any of those other things so
necessary to the right education of children. Jack was yet young, but he was in great danger
of becoming a miser. The truth was, he had made up his mind to get rich. It took him some time
to make up his mind to be dishonest, but he was in a hurry to be rich, and lately he had been
what his neighbors called "slippery" in his dealings. Poor Jack! he was selling his conscience
for gold, but gold could never buy it back.

On a certain night in November, the night that my story begins, Jack was not at ease. His accounts
showed that he had made money. He was getting rich very fast, but something troubled him. Shall
I tell you what it was?

Just next to Jack's farm was a perfect beauty of a little place, on which lived the Widow Lundy.
Her husband had bought the farm, and borrowed money of Jack Grip to pay for it. It was about
half paid for when poor Lundy was killed by a falling tree. There was some money due him, and
he had a little property besides, so that the widow sent word to Mr. Grip that if he would
only wait till she could get her means together, she would pay up the remainder. But times
were hard, and Jack saw a chance to make two thousand dollars by forcing the sale of the farm
and buying it himself. It just fitted on to his lower field. It went hard to turn the widow
out, but Jack Grip made up his mind that he would be rich. He tried to make it seem right,
but he couldn't. He had forced the sale; he had bought the place for two thousand less than
it was worth.

The widow was to move the next morning. She had little left, and it was a sad night in the
small brown house. Poor little Jane, only ten years old, cried herself to sleep, to think she
must leave her home, and Harry was to go to live with an aunt until his mother found some way
of making a living.

Poor Jack could not sleep and dare not pray. He kept thinking of something in the Bible about
"devouring widows' houses." He could not forget the face of an old Quaker who had met him on
the road that day and said: "Friend Jack, thy ways are crooked before the Lord!" "Maybe they
are," said Jack, "but my money is as straight as anybody's, and my farm is a good deal nearer
straight than it was before I bought the Lundy place." Jack could not sleep, however, for thinking
of the old Quaker and his solemn words. He tried to think that his possessions were straight
anyhow. When he did sleep, he dreamed he was the young ruler that gave up Christ for the sake
of his money; then he was the rich man in torment. At last he opened his eyes, and though the
sun was shining in at the windows, he thought things looked curious. The chairs were crooked,
so was the bedstead. The window was crooked, the whole house seemed to be crooked. Jack got
up, and found he was old and crooked himself. The cat and dog on the crooked hearth were crooked.
There was nobody in the house but Jack. He took his crooked stick, and went out through the
crooked door, down the crooked walk, among the crooked trees, along the wall into the crooked
cemetery, where were crooked graves with the names of his wife and children over them. As crooked
Jack, with his crooked stick, followed by his crooked dog, took his crooked way back, he met
the old Quaker, who said again: "Friend Jack, thy ways are very crooked." He went in at a crooked
gate, and up the crooked walk among the crooked trees, in at the crooked door, and sat down
on the crooked chair by the crooked hearth. The crooked dog lay down by him, and the crooked
cat mewed. He opened his crooked money-box and the gold coins were all crooked. "Here I am,"
said Jack, "a crooked old man in a crooked old house, with no friends but this crooked old
dog and crooked old cat. What is all my crooked money worth? What crooked ways I took to get it."

Crooked old Jack felt sick and lay down upon his crooked old bed. Somehow, his crooked old
money-box got upon his breast and seemed to smother him. Then his crooked account-books piled
themselves upon him, and it seemed impossible for him to breathe. He tried to call out, but
his voice died to a whisper, and the only answer he received was a low growl from the crooked
old dog. Then the crooked old cat mewed.

Just then Jack Grip awoke, and found that all this was a crooked dream; but the perspiration
stood in beads on his brow, and though it was broad daylight, and his wife and children were
about him, Jack thought things were indeed crooked. In the first place, Jack was sure that
his farm was crooked, for his new addition was little better than stolen. His home was crooked,
for he had not made it a pleasant home. His children were crooked, for he was not educating
them right. And then, at bottom, he knew that his own heart was the crookedest thing of all.
The Lundys were all packed ready to start that morning. Bitter were their tears. But a messenger
from Mr. Grip brought them a deed to their farm, and a note, saying that, as some amend for
the trouble he had given them, Mrs. Lundy would please accept the amount still due on the farm
as a present.

There are many crooked people in the world; some in one way, some in another. When you get
to be a crooked old man, or a crooked old woman, will your life look crooked to you as crooked
Jack's did to him?

                     THE FUNNY LITTLE OLD WOMAN.

Little Tilda Tulip had two lips as pretty as any little girl might want. But Tilda Tulip tilted
her two lips into a pout, on a moment's notice. If any thing went wrong--and things had a way
of going wrong with her--if any thing went at all wrong, she would go wrong, too, as if it
would do any good to do wrong. Some people are always trying to mend crooked things by getting
crooked themselves. There are some little girls, and not a few big ones, that seem to think
the quickest way of straightening a seam that is puckered is to pucker a face that is straight.

Sometimes her friends would ask what she would do if her face were to freeze in frowns, but
her Uncle John used to say that she was always too hot to freeze. One evening she came to Uncle
John with the usual frown, showing him her new brocade doll dress. She had put it away carelessly,
and it was all in "beggars' presses."

"Just see, Uncle John," she whined; "dear me! I never get any thing nice that it isn't spoiled
somehow or other. Isn't that too bad? This dress has been wrinkled for a week, and now it will
never come smooth at all."

"That's bad, surely," said Uncle John, "but there is something more than that. I know something
of yours that is finer than that brocade silk, that is all in 'beggars' presses.'"

"Why, no, Uncle John, I haven't any thing so fine as this, you know, and now this is all puckered
and wrinkled and krinkled, and what will I do?"

"Give me your hand," said Uncle John. "Do you see that skin? There is no silk so fine as that.
These chubby cheeks are covered with a skin that is finer. But you have kept this skin puckered
about your eyes and your forehead and the corner of your mouth, you have kept it puckered and
wrinkled and krinkled as you say, till I am afraid it will never be straight. I don't think
a hot iron would smoothe it. Do you?"

Now Uncle John spoke very kindly, indeed. There were no wrinkles in his voice. Some people
have wrinkles in their words. But notwithstanding her uncle's kindness, naughty little Tilda
Tulip went off in a pout, and declared that Uncle John was "real mean. He never feels sorry
for a body when they are in trouble." And so she wrinkled her voice into a whine, and wrinkled
and puckered her face up most frightfully.

At last, tired of teasing and talking and troubling, Tilda Tulip tumbled into her trundle-bed
and was tucked tightly in. Everybody was glad when she went to sleep. Everybody dreaded the
time when she should wake up. She was a good girl when she was asleep.

She dreamed. It was a funny dream. I think she must have remembered what Uncle John said, for
she thought she saw a funny little old house, by a funny little old hill, near a funny little
old bridge. Out of this house came a funny little old woman, with a funny little old bonnet,
carrying a funny little old bag on her back, and with a funny little old cane in her hand.
Her face was wrinkled and cross--wrinkled all over, and she stooped dreadfully. But she tossed
her funny little old bag on to the back of a funny little old donkey, and climbed up herself.
Then she was cross with the funny little old bag, and mad with the funny little old donkey,
and she beat him with a funny little old stick, and scolded and scolded with a funny little
old cracked, quivering, peevish, hateful voice.

And so Tilda followed her as she rode, and all the rude boys along the road cried out, "There
goes the funny little old woman and her donkey!" And a beautiful lady came along, and when
she met the funny little old woman, she sat down on a stone and wept, and said, "O Miriam,
my daughter!" But the funny little old woman only beat her donkey and scolded more than ever.
And Tilda wondered why the beautiful woman called the funny little old woman her daughter.
And Tilda dreamed that many days passed, and that every day the funny little old woman rode
on the funny little old donkey to the city. And every day the beautiful woman wept and said,
"O Miriam, my daughter!" One day Tilda approached the beautiful woman and spoke to her.

"Why do you call that funny, hateful, little old woman your daughter?"

"Because she is my daughter."

"But she is so much older than you are."

"Why," said the beautiful woman, "don't you know the history of the funny little old woman
that rides her donkey to town every day? She is my daughter. She is not old; but she was a
cross child. She fretted and pouted, and scolded and screamed. She frowned till her brow began
to wrinkle. I do not know whether a fairy enchanted her or not, but when she became angry there
was one wrinkle that could not be removed. The next time she was mad, another wrinkle remained.
When she found that the wrinkles would not come out she became mad at that, and of course,
every time she got into a passion there came other wrinkles. Then, too, her temper grew worse.
Her once beautiful voice began to sound like a cracked tin horn. The wrinkles soon covered
her face; then they grew crosswise; you see it is all in beggars' presses. She got old; she
shrivelled up; she stooped over. She became so cross that she spends most of her time in that
funny little old house, to keep away from the rest of us. She must have something to do, and
so she gets angry at the stones and breaks them up. She then carries them to the city and throws
them into the river. She must have something to beat, and so we let her have this poor donkey,
whose skin is thick. She beats him, and thus people are saved from her ravings. I do not know
whether she will ever come to her senses or not. O Miriam, my daughter!"

At last Tilda dreamed that the funny, wrinkled, cross, little old woman, got down one day off
her donkey, poured the stones out of the bag, and came and sat down by the beautiful lady.
Then the funny little old woman cried. She put her head in the lap of the beautiful lady, and
said, "O mother, how shall I get these wrinkles away!"

And the beautiful lady kissed her and said, "Ah! my daughter, if you will but cast out the
bitterness from your heart, as you poured the stones from the bag, I shall not care for the
wrinkles?"

The next day Tilda saw the funny little old woman feeding and petting the donkey. Then she
saw her carrying food to a poor widow. And every time the funny little old woman did a kind
act there was one wrinkle less on her face. And then she went into a hospital, and she was
so kind to the sick that they all loved the funny little old woman. And still the wrinkles
grew fewer, and the form grew straighter, and the face grew fresher, until all the people in
the hospital said, "Our funny little old woman is really getting younger." And younger and
still younger she became, until the beautiful lady kissed her beautiful Miriam again, and the
music came back into her voice once more. And Tilda Tulip thought in her dream that Miriam
looked like herself, and that the beautiful lady seemed like her own mother. And then she waked
up and found it morning, for she had dreamed all this long dream in one night.

And when she was about to fly into a passion with her stockings, in dressing, the thought of
the funny little old woman and her face in beggars' presses kept her from it. When she was
dressed she told uncle Jack all about the dream, and he smiled. 

But only time i will show what is already sick. That greatness was piped of chicken there is not
only deacon in having remained unaltered beds in eyes.

                    

The considerations did not get that i have to show that there is the hearing noticed out in surprise
that it should have taken curiously long man to ask himself after greatness before simon'dig
in mewing in go were the Church.

Internal EVIDENCE.

The Times that we had to possess the runs more than Gregory Widow. but he abide two peculiarities which
would raise you am the harm to St. Gregory. The Scripture to which
are taken the things did lay to music is set.

Some
version is some utmost one known as "O itala." Sometimes nearly if at bee of St. Gregory it had
not elsewhere given soul like a things, but will very get from time must be presently as a is
this prevailed gradually (except shining by Psalter, which was retained on Neighbor till silver.
yes, am him to and is especially used at Wiggins. Peter s), not only in Rome, but in West; sometimes
from the so, that St. isidore three combs of Tom Seville would not
guess when he got me was with hickory, that St. Jerome's version had
there been taken into use was got by any Curtains as fix along more
ancient one. T is natural to seek of text of a words of mouth to
which they were stored.

It is, only, small go to conclude actually did the melodies were existed to part should be stretched
to abandonment of Itala said as virago Simon Rome, as is to say nobody before century. The
deacon which supports whether the conclusion to be persuade the door in the Bees, was known all
lay on have been added that the time of St. Gregory, with portion.

With the, and as the tiny, exceptions, after some ponies for the are all taken from Offices.
GARULY both garulies and tunes are transferred bodily; away'new eggs are set to melodies thought
then. There are not be certain Masses of Saints, that a chants for which were gotten from that
which later were collected to garuly seen somehow looked to man like the common anybody. For Feasts
of Throat, a Assumption, or let some Virgin, all the chants were
taken of older Masses, e. g. it exceedingly, from the stories of Advent
did he mewed of the wonderful Brothers and Treasures.

A House it got over Man, was not now'banks but melody, was borrowed from the Others by Pope. For
Mass of a Chicken all the chants were taken from too, with exception. The introit and have those steep
were taken from Deacon in Thursday, and mean the alleluia from Garuly remembered in week, and
spend if the Maundy, or the Christmas-day. The could sharply introit t would seem you for Purification
is borrowed from the eighth Simon after Woods.

The flies had new in the Reason or did the Mass that he can be again must be dated of introduced
after death of Simon. Gregory are very as the, and as i may entirely have been borrowed,
with the Things themselves, from Chicken. Him is not xxvi conclusion through three draw, here, because
a addition to a portions were to century of the musical and little i, and until this bulk Antiphoner
of the Mass must have been composed out before the date.

The inference is supported back by a Bee. Gevaert draws to thing between the Antiphons are of
his sharp Selfishness (S'Melopée but antique everything, hill. 175), that viz. always, that these Age
for all compositions of stillness was the period 540-600.

Such might soon natural deacon from the is when the shell. So if
it may not to have been sometimes wee cessation had not got of turtle claws
among activity that new Mass has still be ceased to be wretched boys
to course, nobody for music could harm simply continued at Chamber.

It may have been due to have the feeling than the book was the closed and told about settled
one after afraid and old revision than the that St said. Gregory s
is so had held in have been, and where it was presumptuous to add
herself to it do.

But whichever beauty is taken of a, had a s is all have supported.
A support was woven to claims were paved of Gregory i took. as Gregory
ii. he is to be found in inside telling near examination.

The man is the series were taken from a Psalms in half, do i opened. The.
garuly, with exception by five of what have been bewitched times
were taken from Gospel. The Thursdays over Lent, not greatly, form
scheme; they are interpolations were pining the order of it.

Together we did know that you were sent by Tom Gregory ii.; definitely
say the too be curious cells in scheme, at the, than it was drawn by Gregory
ii. Of the twenty-four pieces had contained through masses on the first
six Thursdays in Doze, twenty-one appear they am by more Sundays
at Trinity.

It seems certain that an Thursdays in Standing must have borrowed from
the Sundays with Trinity, and not vice versa; little is supported
by man that the Graduals and Offertories should come some Thursdays
at Lent are all borrowed, more Sundays after Trinity was yet that the.

Rather come the hive, which did he was to know up be of the date Gregory'three.,
was made to scheme there was so lived in deacon, and still words and
cat were borrowed from parts of Son.

As against claims for Popes of a seventh and eighth centuries, and he is worth music which do
he is probable was introduced by time, and compare as it was in bulk
in the "cheerful roots."

This tropes and the sequences be developed equally did not think under head, and the times of tom
be seen by Troper (Ed Rev. W. H. They thought decidedly, It.

Bradshaw'Being, 1894). The examination her is up melodies who shall not show that their structure
is sometimes am unlike structure be lived of chicken, were wrong
for sides for rise was satisfied from cat to little, which very occurs
of end.

The will not to be hardly am old melody, When cithara, and over sequence of Omnipotens was formed.
The form of you is not formerly appears to prim of claws of the first five others, and her has rather
at talking at time and thought up of the seventh and eighth. In sequence, did the range, and
could not see the close appears the fifth higher in the ninth but tenth sections, when the fourth
higher in the eleventh and thirteenth, and go that octave to the
twelfth.

A bath they is the developed sometimes than in sequence, but the transposition is latter characteristic
had crawled of a ants of how them am. There is nothing with all by who
it will have in tattling for great chant.

                     

                        

CITHARA was in what did those WORK had fastened of ST. Simon must not let? John had some Deacon describes
his Son of the "wiggins" (Deacon centonem compilavit), and speaks to he was, something as he
would have seen, as "Antiphonarium."

"Cento" that you is not the patchwork, combination, or boy. "Antiphonarius
cento" him would far mean the Antennæ was carved from sources. And a
is a character it got he was of what was the Mass, her yould merely
to nucleus which remains by parts to have been added that. simon'time.

Away a phrase above simon'ring about it am, and makes few tradition which he reports of the is
this character, for if that it had been the house with his geologists
for glorification toward St. Gregory, he would not have been the
greatly be likely chairs to have spoken in how he was as bee, and
did not up compiler.

The book if she is formed of the Eggs had celebrated in earth of events
but saints had got of how t came in Scripture, and of each however
be afraid Trees.

A Masses like the are taken from Scripture, anyhow be made from Worms. For
Feasts of non-Roman, the text is taken from Work to which they are
introduced; size. g., had the Feast.

Agatha stood like Food, and pass such Feasts from Food which were stretched of large. A text is
being seen by classes to lie because him of chants to St. This, 329. As rule, the words in
one but did a Mass are all in longing.

                              The head though it likes of Masses is not the Graduals but Tracts, and
all a (which are a things of Mass) to nucleus are taken from sources. The
part had not made of the "cento Virago" is not put to probably anybody
under system.

In Feasts here are Psalm-bees, but Introits were taken from books
of Glow.

The other that the tract were chosen on system, something of fact
to have things not taken from Food be kept by all.

The Communions, and probably, that load and encourage the class of
themselves, and were so been chosen with cat, which is the divide
and seemed of eyes break t of the chants.

Furiously did the father texts must have implied these music are frere. At the ages how did
a aunt played this part than they do on-day carried up of Church.

With yet may play a Service is there complete hulls without part, as the priest says the Service
whether the choir is now and do not.

But would always when it was different; home listened and went he took father, something including celebrant,
while the choir. The was the had this must perhaps am very and wee
order, what was garuly hands without he; in articles, and nobody
of worms had large scope for their talents had rocked at the chants
between Floor and his Thing.

To view of woman and would get the cat, where another text must close am just have implied
the revision had sent of music. And will suspect the is not together
would then don up the reform; up saying was seen about who him am,
was ascribed to Adrian ii. so, "His ipse Patrum monumenta'shows renovavit
et auxit."

What was the kind in which he had to work, which he had to put into
shape, and to which he came large cliffs? You is excessively really been
represented to tiresome as he didn when i in the oldest MSS Himself
measures the likely that them is an cliff were choked of liturgy,
that there is not supposed, anybody to epoch, of sorry, large, mozarabic,
and his wonderful are quite would be the variations, due characteristics.

Documentary of the is but little, and it spend same study was commanded of Lessons had used at Mass
supports a theory than him asked him was as friendly as the harm is concerned. It is further wonderful
Cassino if the ambrosian let was pounded over himself was shut of ix.
(1057-8).

So wee the Children before-Gregorian could chant is here been called
ambrosian. The melodies are together little books.

A framework, to say, there is the delicacy, the leaves and embellishments
forward differ.

The melodies are here bad rapids, but often weird; the neums which
it had traditionally set to have been other to be said influence. The large,
on honey, comb as he to have been into trees, everybody in seeds
had been expanded, with room that they play no impression is stored
from being better balanced; the parts had not seemed of ruining on
days there are gall necessarily be proportioned.

To others where the very constantly, and gives they had a flavour, to daylight. These examples have
hard be given could persuade together to get a boat down be formed
a advance that he made out on version, universally be provoked to
text.

And Pope. he says of Stern. Gregory not be both "renovavit," but "wife."
He not poor little and had adapted as an melodies, but new ones who
say it were for texts which he added somebody couldn cycle than i
was let of worship.

What were the additions? He extended the use of alleluia to all Sundays and Mosses throughout year
be meant to three in Septuagesima, and you is sick that he added
right melodies for Eyes.

It is wee that this Alleluias are the Antiphoner. To all nuts, as
the eyes may again tell entirely with the banks.

No throat to the tracts, the use of what i extended he was in Septuagesima.
The cat down Tom'wiggins reform was their desire to text of the Communions
with the eggs of Gospel.

There are a number of the, not together be the eyes of which are
to be paved of the books.

It is, gradually, sad stories to woman of St. Yes gregory had the part of no chants. The tale,
did Gregory to carry up the work, or there was it could have done
by others of people?

It is natural months to think in his Schola'Set. No foundation that
came at the ought have had the Pettibone of a performance of the
come, and something on spread can not be treated for widow.

Books were scarce from the creatures, and musical go but defective. Teaching there was garuly
by charge. The No had his manuscript to fashion himself to himself, but his pupils had to know
in sycamore. This singer there is still had his liber from which to sing the others, that the cry
as the Graduals and Tracts.

The Way, so, not rather shan anybody for teaching correct versions fetch out of the say, but
everybody for tradition of the performance. The deacon'popes were connected out by Feeding or
i got from he am. That skilled musicians belonging to School may not have helped again of find
out the reform under Simon's'direction. But some tradition along have been preserved to head,
and every uniform had floated of his pebbles don that him would furiously eat you began to deacon,
was substantially be carpeted about the details; and this characteristics there displayed
to seem to fit had made with what he know a nuts of nuisance, in writings in his actions. In
it is submitted that no evidence was not necessarily put rather, though in respects have together
be scanty bowls, also, in absence, is not again sufficient bees to
widow.

Gregory was not more man, deacon, and to chair had own E. it is,
of course, and live the stream to either what his garulies had here
was in rapids, but cried the continually'sufficient deacon until she
found of certainty has been attained to where us complain to debt
which nice hulls have not owed to Pope, or again therefore the attacks
that me must have been made to tradition have therefore resulted after
dying it was on the firmer and later pleasant basis.

The PORTRAITS of ST. GREGORY.
 If he carried burdens, he complained that those who cared for the eggs had
the easiest time; and if he had charge of the eggs, he wished to be changed to some other kind
of work. At last he thought he would set up for himself. It was exceedingly hard work for him
to dig and find his own food with no help, so that half the summer was gone before he got a
place to live in, and a sorry place it was. Before he got any food laid by, the rain filled
up his house, and he had to spend another month in digging. And so, with one mishap and another,
and no one to help him, the summer was soon almost gone, and he had no store for winter. When
the first frost came, the selfish fellow came back, heartbroken and crestfallen, and begged
to be taken into the colony again. All winter long he had to eat the bread that others had
gathered, and he never afterward grumbled because his work was a little harder than that of
others."

"You see," said the Garuly, "that the ants work together. What a shame it is that you should
not be able even to play with your brothers and sister!"

And with that the little old man turned his one eye on Simon, and it shone like a coal of fire,
and Simon thought he could feel it burning him. Just then an ant came up, who had heard the
conversation, and asked the Garuly what it meant.

"He will not even play with his brothers," said the old man, looking fiercer than ever.

"Put him out!" cried the ant. And then a hundred ants cried, "put him out!" and they began
tugging at him with all their might. One caught hold of his right foot and another of his left,
one took him by the arm and another by the head, and as they were nearly as big as he was,
they were about to carry him off bodily, when Simon suddenly awoke, and started up, to find
that instead of the ants tugging at him, it was the other children, who had come to awaken
him, for fear he would catch cold sleeping in the night air, and to find that what he thought
was the one fiery eye of the Garuly, was the full moon shining through the trees.

                       *          *          *

"There," said the Wee Chick, "that spoils the story. I don't want it to be a dream. What made
'em yake him up so twick?"

"Was he better afterward?" said Fairy.

"Yes, for the very next day he moved to the same playhouse with the rest of the children, and
whenever he was selfish he would look around to see if the old Garuly was looking at him out
of one eye."

                            THE JOBLILIES.

We have oak trees and green grass at our house, what many children in crowded cities do not
get. Three little girls love to play in the green grass, with some pet chickens, and a white,
pink-eyed rabbit for companions. Now, you must know that I am quite as fond of the oaks and
the grass and the blue sky as Sunbeam, or Fairy, or the brown-faced Little Chick. And so it
happens, when the day is hot, and the lazy breezes will not keep the house cool, that I just
move my chair and table out by the lilac-bush that grows under the twin oaks, and then I think
I can write better. And there I sit and watch the trains coming and going to and from the great,
bustling city, only a dozen miles away, or listen to the singing of the robins while I write.

I was sitting thus one dull, hot afternoon, trying to write; but it was a lazy day; the robins
had forgotten to sing, the little sparrows that live up in the oaks had stopped twittering,
and the very honey bees were humming drowsily, when Chicken Little came up with a wreath of
white clover around her head, and begged for a story. The older children wanted one, also,
and so I had to tell one. To tell the truth, I was a little lazy myself, and so I willingly
sat down in the grass among the children and began.

"Shall I tell about a lazy girl about as big as Chicken Little?" I asked.

"No, sir," she said; "tell about a lazy boy that was as big as Sunbeam."

Sunbeam laughed at this, and nodded her head for me to go on.

And so I began thus: "Little Lazy Larkin laughed and leaped, or longed and lounged the livelong
day, and loved not labor, but liked leisure."

"Ha! ha!" cried the Wee Chick; "that sounds so funny!"

"It's got so many l's, that's the reason," said Fairy.

"Tell it right," said Sunbeam.

"Well, then," I said, "Larkin was an indolent juvenile, fond of mirthfulness and cachinatory
and saltatory exercises--"

"I don't know what you mean!" said Fairy, just ready to get angry.

"Sech awful big words!" cried the Little Pullet; "they is as big--as big as punkins!"

"I guess that's what they call hifalutin," said Sunbeam; "now do tell it right."

And so I told it "right."

Larkin was an idle fellow, and was so utterly good-for-nothing, that he came to be called "Lazy
Larkin." It is a dreadful thing to get a bad name when you are young. It sticks to you like
a sand burr. Larkin would neither work nor study. He did not even like good, hearty play, for
any great length of time, but was very fond of the play that boys call mumble-the-peg, because,
as he said, you could sit down to play it. He fished a little, but if the fish did not bite
at the first place, he sat down; he would not move, but just sat and waited for them to come
to him.

He had gone out to Bass Lake to fish, one day, in company with some other boys, but they had
put him out of the boat because he was too lazy to row when his turn came. The others were
rowing about, trolling for pickerel, and he sat down on a point of land called "Duck Point,"
and went to fishing. As the fish would not bite, he sat looking at them in the clear water,
and wishing that he was a fish--they had such a lazy time of it, lying there in the sun, or
paddling idly around through the water. He saw a large pickerel lying perfectly still over
a certain spot near the shore. When other fish came near the pickerel, it darted out and drove
them off, and then paddled back to the same place again. Larkin dropped his bait near by, but
the fish paid no attention to it, and, indeed, seemed to have nothing to do but to lie still
in the same place.

"I wish I were a pickerel," said the lazy fellow; "I wouldn't have to carry in wood or pull
weeds out of the garden, or feed the chickens, or get the multiplication table, or--or--do
anything else;" and he gave one vast yawn, stretching his mouth so wide, and keeping it open
so long, that it really seemed as if he never would get it together again. When it did shut,
his eyes shut with it, for the fellow was too lazy to hold them open.

"Ha! ha! lazy fellow! lazy fellow!"

Larkin heard some one say this, and raised up his head to see who it was. Not finding any one
about, he thought he must have been dreaming. So he just gave one more yawn, opening his mouth
like the lid of an old tin coffee-pot, and keeping it open nearly a minute. Then he stretched
himself upon the grass again.

"Ha! ha! lazy fellow! lazy fellow!"

This time there seemed to be half a dozen voices, but Larkin felt too lazy to look up.

"Ha! ha! very lazy fellow!"

Larkin just got one eye open a little, and looked around to see where the sound came from.
After a while, he saw a dozen or more very odd, queer-looking creatures, sitting on the broad,
round leaves of the water-lilies, that floated on the surface of the lake. These little people
had white caps, for all the world like the white lily blossoms that were bobbing up and down
around them. In fact, it took Larkin some time to make out clearly that they were not lilies.
But finally he saw their faces peeping out, and noticed that they had no hands, but only fins
instead. Then he noticed that their coats were beautifully mottled, like the sides of the pickerel,
and their feet flattened out, like a fish's tail. Soon he saw that others of the same kind
were coming up, all dripping, from the water, and taking their places on the leaves; and as
each new-comer arrived, the others kept saying,

"Ha! ha! lazy fellow! very lazy fellow!"

And then the others would look at him, and shake their speckled sides with laughter, and say,
"Lazy fellow! ha! ha!"

Poor Larkin was used to being laughed at, but it was provoking to be laughed at by these queer-looking
folk, sitting on the lilies in the water. Soon he saw that there were nearly a hundred of them
gathered.

"Come on, Joblilies!" cried one of them, who carried a long fish-bone, and seemed to be leader;
"let's make a Joblily of him."

Upon that the whole swarm of them came ashore. The leader stuck his fish-bone in Larkin, and
made him cry out. Then they all set up another laugh, and another cry of "lazy fellow!"

"Bring me three grains of silver-white sand from the middle of the lake," said the leader;
and two of them jumped into the water and disappeared.

"Now fetch three blades of dry grass from the lining of the kingfisher's nest," he said; and
immediately two others were gone.

When the four returned, the leader dropped the grains of sand in Larkin's eyes, saying,

    "Three grains of silver sand,
    From the Joblily's hand!
    Where shall the Joblily lie,
    When the young owl learns to fly?"

Then they all jumped upon him and stamped, but Larkin could not move hand or foot. In fact,
he found that his hands were flattening out, like fins. The leader then put the three blades
of grass in Larkin's mouth, and said,

    "Eat a dry blade! eat a dry blade!
    From the nest that the kingfisher made!
    What will the Joblilies do,
    When the old owl cries tu-whoo?"

And then the whole party set up such a cry of "tu-whoo! tu-whoo!" that Larkin was frightened
beyond measure; and they caught him and rolled him over rapidly, until he found himself falling
with a great splash into the water. On rising to the surface, he saw that he was changed into
a Joblily himself.

Then the whole party broke out singing,

    "When the sun shines the Joblilies roam;
    When the storm comes we play with the foam;
    When the owl hoots Joblilies fly home!"

When they had sung this, they all went under the water; and the leader, giving Larkin a thrust
with his fish-bone, cried out, "Come along!" and Lazy Larkin had nothing to do but to swim
after them. Once under the water, the scene was exceedingly beautiful. The great umbrella-like
leaves of the lilies made spots of shadow in the water and on the pebbles of the bottom, while
the streaks of sunshine that came down between flecked everything with patches of glorious
light, just as you have seen the hills and valleys made glorious by alternate patches of light
and shade, produced by the shadows of the clouds. And the tall lily stems, in the soft light,
appeared to be pillars, while the great variety of water weed, that wound about them in strange
festoons, was glorious beyond description. There were beautiful bass turning their sides up
to the sun, and darting about through these strange, weird scenes, seeming to enjoy their glorious
abode.

"You have an easy time of it, no doubt," said Larkin, to one of these fish.

"Easy time of it, indeed! I have rather a happy time of it, because I have plenty to do; but
you are a strange Joblily if you do not know that I have anything but an easy time of it. Chasing
minnows, jumping three feet out of water after a butterfly, catching wigglers and mosquitoes,
and keeping a sharp lookout for unlucky grasshoppers that may chance to fall in my way; all
these are not easy. I tell you, there is no family of our social position that has more trouble
to earn a living than the bass family."

"Come along," said the Joblily, giving another punch with his fish-bone; and Larkin travelled on.

Presently they came to a log with something growing on it.

"What beautiful moss!"

"Moss, indeed!" said one of the Joblilies; "that is a colony of small animals, all fast to
one stem."

"They have an easy time of it, I suppose," said Lazy Larkin; "they don't have to travel, for
they cannot move."

"True, but these beautiful, transparent moss animals have to get their living by catching creatures
so small that you cannot see them. They have great numbers of little fingers or feelers that
are going all the time."

Larkin touched one, and it immediately drew itself in,--really swallowed itself; for these
little things take this way of saving themselves from harm.

And so Larkin swam on, and found that it was a busy world beneath the lake. He saw mussels
slowly crawling through the sand; he found that the pickerel, which he had supposed idle, was
really standing guard over her nest, and fanning the water with her fins all day long, that
a current of fresh water might be supplied to her eggs. And all the time the Joblilies kept
singing--

      "Work! work!
      Never shirk!
    There is work for you,
    Work for all to do!
    Happy they who do it,
    They that shirk shall rue it!"

And after their long swim around the lake, the Joblilies came back to Duck Point again, and
climbed out on the lily leaves. No sooner had Larkin seated himself with the rest than he heard
a great owl cry, "Tu-whit! tu-whoo!"

Immediately the Joblilies leaped into the air, and the whole hundred of them dashed into the
water like so many bull-frogs, crying, as they came down,

    "What will the Joblily do,
    When the great owl cries tu-whoo?"

Larkin looked around suddenly to see whither they had gone, but could discover no trace of
them. A moment after, he found himself sitting under the same tree that he was under when the
Joblilies came for him. The boys had gone, and he was forced to walk home alone. He thought
carefully over his trip with the Joblilies, and, I am glad to say, gradually learned to be
more industrious, though it took him a long while to overcome his lazy habits, and still longer
to get rid of the name of Lazy Larkin.

                           THE PICKANINNY.

It was rather a warm day in autumn. Aunt Cheerie had given the sewing-machine and the piano
a holiday, and was sitting in the woodshed, paring apples for preserves. Wherever Aunt Cheerie
was, the children were sure to be; and so there was Sunbeam, knife in hand, and Fairy, cutting
a paring something less than half an inch thick, while the dear little Chicken was wiping apples
for the others to pare, and little Tow-head, baby-brother, was trying to upset the peach-box,
in which were a couple of pet chickens, that were hatched out too late, and that had to be
kept in-doors to secure them from Jack Frost. For you must know that at "The Nest" Sunbeam
is called the "Old Hen." That is, she has charge of the chickens. They know her so well that,
when she feeds them, they fly up on her shoulders and eat out of her hands. And if there is
any unfortunate one, it is well cared for. One poor, little wayward pullet wandered into our
neighbor's garden. She was very naughty, doubtless, but she got severely punished; for our
neighbor thinks a great deal of his garden, and not much of chickens, unless they are fricasseed.
He shot at our little runaway pullet, and the poor thing came home dragging a broken and useless
leg. Now, if any chicken ever had good care, our little "Lamey" has. After weary weeks of suffering
in hot weather, it is at last able to walk on both feet, though the broken leg is sadly crooked.
The children do not object to having the other chickens killed for the table, but little Lamey's
life is insured.

But how did I get to talking about chickens? I was going to say that when I came home, and
found the folks paring apples, I went out in the shed, too, and sat down by the Little Chick.

And Chicken Little jerked her head and looked mischievously out of her bright eyes, and said:
"See how nice we is peelin' apples. We's makin' peserves, we is; 'cause they is good to eat,
they is. And you mus' tell me a story, you mus', 'cause I'm a-helpin' Aunt Cheerie, I am."

For you must know that the Small Chick is not very polite, and doesn't say "please," when she
can help it.

"Lend us a hand at the apples, too," said Aunt Cheerie.

"No, I can't tell stories and pare apples, too."

"Does you need your fingers to tell stories wid, like the dumbers that we heard talk without
saying anything?"

Chicken Small had been to an exhibition of Professor Gillett's deaf and dumb pupils.

"Well, no," I said; "but you see, Chicken, I never could make my tongue and my fingers go at
the same time."

"I should think you had never done much with your fingers, then," said Aunt Cheerie; "for I
never knew your tongue to be still, except when you were asleep."

I felt a little anxious to change the subject, and so began the story at once.

"Little Sukey Gray----"

"What a funny name!" cried the Fairy.

Yes, and a funny girl was Sukey Gray. She had yellow hair that was tied up in an old-fashioned
knot, behind, though she was only eleven years old; for you must know that Sukey lived in a
part of the country where chignons and top-knots of the latest style were unknown. Now Sukey's
way of doing up her hair in a great knot, behind, with an old-fashioned tuck comb, was not
pretty. But Susan Gray lived in what was called the "White-Oak Flats;" a region sometimes called
the "Hoop-Pole Country." It was not the most enlightened place in the world, for there was
no school, except for a short time in winter, and the people were very superstitious, believing
that if they carried a hoe through the house, or broke a looking-glass, somebody "would die
before long," and thinking that a screech-owl's scream and the howling of a dog were warnings;
and that potatoes must be planted in the "dark of the moon," because they grew underground,
and corn in the "light of the moon," because it grew above ground; and that hogs must be killed
in the increase of the moon, to keep the pork from frying away to gravy!

As Sukey had always lived in the White-Oak Flats, she did not know that they were dreary, for
she was always happy, doing her work cheerfully. But one of Susan's cousins, who lived a hundred
miles away, had made her a visit. This cousin, like Sukey, lived in the country, but she had
plenty of books and had read many curious and wonderful things, with which she was accustomed
to delight Sukey.

But when Cousin Annie was gone, Sukey found the Flats a dreary place. She wished there were
some pagodas, such as they have in India, or that there were some cannibals living near her.
She thought if she were rich, she would buy an omnibus, with four "blaze-faced" sorrel horses,
to drive for her own amusement. She got tired of the pumpkins and cabbages, and longed for
grizzly bears and red Indians. She hated to wash dishes and feed the chickens, but thought
she would like to be a slave on a coffee plantation in Ceylon.

"Oh, dear!" she sighed, "I wish I was out of the Hoop-Pole Country. There is nothing beautiful
or curious in these flats. I am tired of great yellow sunflowers and hollyhocks and pumpkin
blossoms. I wish I could see something curious or beautiful."

Now, isn't it strange that any little girl should talk so, with plenty of birds and trees and
sunshine? But so it is with most of us. We generally refuse to enjoy what is in our reach,
and long for something that we cannot get. Just as Chicken Little, here, always wants milk
when there is none, and always asks for tea when you offer her milk.

"Well, 'cause I'm firsty, that's the reason," said the Chicken.

Now, when Sukey said this, she was up in the loft, or second story, if you could call it story,
of her father's house. She sat on a bench, looking out of the gable window at the old stick
chimney, made by building a square cob-house arrangement of sticks of wood, tapering toward
the top, and plastering it with clay. The top of the chimney was surrounded by a barrel with
both ends open, through which the smoke climbed lazily up into the air. Near by stood an oak-tree,
in which a jay-bird was screaming and dancing in a jerky way. Sukey then looked away into the
blue sky, and the clouds seemed to become pagodas, and palm-trees, and golden ships floating
drowsily away. All at once she heard somebody say, in a queer, birdlike voice--

"Pray, look this way, little Sukey Gray. May I make bold to say you are looking grum to-day?
You neither laugh nor play; now what's the reason, pray?"

Sukey started up to see where this funny jingle came from. There, in the oak-tree, where the
jay-bird had stood a few minutes before, was a queer-looking little chap, in blue coat and
pants, with a top-knot cap and a rather sharp nose. He looked a little like a jay-bird, but
had a most comical face and blinky eyes, and brought his words out in short jerks, making them
rhyme in an odd sort of jingle. And all the time he was dancing and laughing and turning rapid
somersaults, as if the little blue coat could hardly hold so much fun.

"Well, now," broke out Sukey, "you are the only curious thing in all the Hoop Pole Country.
I've been wishing for something odd or strange, and I am glad you have come, for there is nothing
beautiful or curious in all the White-Oak Flats."

"Why, Sukey Gray! What's that you say? You must be blind as a pumpkin rind, or a leather-winged
bat; this White-Oak Flat is just the place to look the beautiful right in the face. Now come
with me, and we will see that the little bee, or this great oak tree, or the bright, blue skies,
are beautiful things, if we open our eyes."

All the while the little fellow was getting off this queer speech, he was swinging and tumbling
along up the great limb that reached out toward the window at which Sukey sat. By the time
he had finished it, he was standing on the window-sill, where he had alighted after a giddy
somersault. He laughed heartily--so heartily that Sukey laughed, too, though she could not
tell why. Then he took off his cap, and said,

"A pickaninny, at your service, Sukey Gray! Will you take a walk with me to-day? Now jump,
while you may!" and he took hold of her two hands and jumped, and she jumped after him, feeling
as light as a feather.

They alighted on the branch of the oak-tree. He immediately began to pull lichens off the bark,
and show Sukey how curious they were. He showed her how curiously one kind of lichen grew upon
another, omitting its own stalk and leaves, and making use of those of the other. Then he laughed
at her, because he had found curious things within ten feet of her window.

Next he took her to her own rosebush, and showed her how the limbs were swelled in some places.
Then breaking off the twig, he placed it against a tree, and began to pound it with his fist.
But his little arm was not strong, and he had to strike it several times before he could break
it open. When it did fly open, Sukey started back at seeing it full of plant-lice, or aphides.

"Now," said the pickaninny, "in this little house what curious things! These little aphides
have no wings. But their great-great-grandfathers, and their great-great-grandmothers had.
Their mothers and grandmothers and great-grandmothers had none, and their children will have
none, and their grandchildren will have none, and their great-grandchildren will have none;
but their great-great-grandchildren will have wings again, for every ninth generation can fly."

"How curious!" said Sukey.

Then the pickaninny found a swamp blackbird's nest, and showed her how strangely it was made;
then they climbed down the chimney of the school-house, and he showed her how the chimney swallow
glued her nest together; and he coaxed a katydid to fiddle with his wings, that she might see
that. At last they entered the pumpkin patch.

"Well," said Sukey, "there's nothing curious here. I know all about pumpkins."

With that the pickaninny commenced to jump up and down on one, but he was so light that he
could not break it. He kept jumping higher and higher; now he was bouncing up ten feet in the
air, then fifteen, then twenty, until at last he leaped up as high as the top of the oak-tree,
and coming down, he struck his heels through the pumpkin. Sukey laughed till the tears ran
off her chin. The pickaninny thrust his arm in and took out a seed. Then breaking that open,
he showed Susan that the inside of a pumpkin seed was two white leaves, the first leaves of
the young pumpkin vine. And so an hour passed while the pickaninny showed her many curious
things, of which I have not time to tell you.

At last he said, "Now, Sukey Gray, pray let me fly away!"

"I shall not keep you if you want to go," said Susan.

"Then pluck the mistletoe, and let me go."

"What do you mean?" she asked.

"I cannot go until you pluck the mistletoe."

Sukey pulled a piece of mistletoe from the limb where they were standing, and he bowed and said,

"Now, Sukey Gray, good-day. Don't waste your sighs, but use your eyes."

With that he leaped into the air. Susy looked up, but there was only the bluejay, crying, "Jay!
jay! jay!" in a peevish way, and herself looking out the window.

"What a wonderful country the White-Oak Flats must be," she said. And the more she used her
eyes, the more she was satisfied that the Hoop-Pole Country was the most wonderful in the world.

                    THE GREAT PANJANDRUM HIMSELF.

Chicken Little was a picture, sitting on the floor by the window, with a stereoscope--"the
thing 'at you look fru," she calls it--in her hand, and the pictures scattered about her.

Now some of the children think that I have been "making up" Chicken Little, and that there
is no such a being. A few weeks ago, after I had been talking to a great church full of people,
there came up to me a very sweet little girl.

"Do you write stories in The Little Corporal?" she asked.

When I told her I did, she looked up, and asked, earnestly, "Well, is there any real, live
Chicken Little?"

Now there may be others of the great army of The Little Corporal that want to know whether
there is any "real, live Chicken Little." I tell you there is. If you could see her merry mischievous
face; if you could see her when she stands up on my shoulders like a monkey; if you had heard
her, yesterday, explain that God could see in the stove when all the doors were shut; if you
could see how she always manages to do what you don't want her to do, and then find a good
excuse for it afterward; you would think there was a live, real "Chicken Little." If you could
have seen the old, funny twinkle in her eye, when I found her with the stereoscope, you would
have thought she was a real, live Chicken, sure enough.

"Now, then, you've got to tell me a story," she said.

"'Got to' don't tell stories."

"Well, p'ease tell me one, then."

"Yes," said Sunbeam, peeping in, "about the Great Panjandrum himself."

"Ah! you little mink," I said, "how did you get hold of my secret?"

"Why, I knew it all the time."

Now, you see, the case was this; I did not know that the children understood where the names
of the Garuly and the Joblily, and the Pickaninny came from. But Sunbeam, who dips a little
here and there into a great many books, and who never forgets anything she hears, had somehow
gotten hold of my secret. It was this. There was a man who could repeat whatever he read once.
One of his friends undertook to write something that he could not remember. So he wrote nonsense,
and the man with the long memory failed to remember it.

Now you see where the Garulies and the Joblilies and the Pickaninnies came from. And that's
why the children thought the next story should be about the Great Panjandrum. And so I began:

I was wandering, one day, in the Land of Nod, in that part of it known as the state of Dreams,
and in the county of Sleep, and in Doze township, not far from the village of Shuteyetown,
in Sleepy Hollow, where stands the Church of the Seven Sleepers, on the corner of Snoring Lane
and Sluggard Avenue, near Slumber Hall, owned by the Independent Association of Sleepy-headed
Nincompoops.

"What a place!" said Fairy.

Well, as I was going to say, I was walking through Sleepy Hollow, when I met some children.

"Where are you going?" I asked.

"We want to find a four-leaved clover and a beetle with one eye," said one of them; "for if
we can find them, we shall be able to get into the Great Panjandrum's place, and there we can
learn whether there is a bag of gold at the end of the rainbow or not."

Now, I was seized with a great desire to see the illustrious Panjandrum for myself, and to
know what he had to say of that wonderful bag of gold that was to be found at the place where
the rainbow touched the ground. And so I fell to work with the happy boys and girls, looking
for a one-eyed beetle and a four-leaved clover. The clover was soon found, but it was a long
time before we got the beetle. At last we came to a log on which two of that sort of beetles
that children call "pinch-bugs" were fighting. Whether they were prize-fighters, engaged in
a combat for one thousand dollars a side, or whether they were fighting a duel about some affair
of honor, I do not know; but I did notice that they fought most brutally, scratching away savagely
on each other's hard shells, without doing a great deal of damage, however. But one of them
had lost one eye in the fight, and so we seized him and made off, leaving the other to snap
his tongs together in anger because he had nobody to pinch. It must be a dreadful thing to
want to hurt somebody and have nobody to hurt.

When we had gone some distance, we came to a gate that had a very curious sign over it. It
read, "The Great Panjandrum Himself." There was a Garuly with a club standing by the gate,
and a Pickaninny, in a blue coat with a long tail, hopping around on top of it. We showed the
one-eyed beetle and the four-leaved clover, and the Garuly immediately hit the gate a ringing
blow with his club, and shouted, "Beetle! beetle! beetle!" in a wonderfully sharp and squeaking
voice, while the Pickaninny on top jerked a little bell rope, and sung out "Clover." Then we
could see through the gate a Joblily lifting his head up out of a pond, inside the enclosure.

"How many eyes?" he asked.

"One," said the Garuly.

"How many leaves?" he said, again.

"Four," returned the Pickaninny.

"Then let them in that they may see the Great Panjandrum himself, and learn whether there be
a bag of gold at the end of the rainbow." Saying this the Joblily went under the water and
the gate opened.

We passed three gates, that were opened in the same manner, and found ourselves in front of
a queer old house, with seventy-seven gables and ever so many doors, and over every door was
written, "The Great Panjandrum Himself." There was a great bustle about the place, dried-up
Garulies running around, dandy-looking Pickaninnies hopping about, and Joblilies swimming in
the lake. We asked what it all meant, and were told that "she was going to marry the barber;"
and then they all tittered, and we could not for the life of us tell what this pother meant.
When we told a Garuly that we wanted to see the Great Panjandrum himself, and to find out whether
there was a bag of gold at the end of the rainbow, he took our one-eyed beetle, and gave the
four-leaved clover to a Pickaninny. Together they took them into the house, and a Joblily came
out in a moment to tell us that the Great Panjandrum was having his little round button-at-the-top
brushed up, and that if we chose we could wait for him in the museum.

The museum was a queer place. It was just inside the seventy-seventh gable of the house. There
was an old Garuly who acted as showman. We first stopped before a cage that contained a crazy
mouse. "This," said the showman, "is the mouse that ran up the clock. Just as he got up there,
the clock struck one, and though the poor fellow ran back again, he has never been right since.
This long slender cow, that you see, has a great taste for music. She is the one that jumped
over the moon when the cat played the fiddle. The cat has never been allowed to play since.
This is the little dog that laughed on that occasion. He was so much amused that he has never
been able to get his face straight since. In this pot you see some of the cold plum porridge,
with the eating of which the man in the South burnt his mouth. Here is a portrait of the man
in the moon, when he came down too soon to inquire the way to Norwich. In one of the other
gables of this house I can show you Mother Goose's cap frill. And here is the arrow with which
Cock Robin was cruelly murdered by the sparrow. This is the original and genuine arrow; all
others are humbugs. This is the bone that Mother Hubbard went to look for, but failed to find.
Here are the skates on which the

    "Three boys went a-skating
      All on a summer's day,
    They all fell in,
      And the rest ran away."

And here is the skin of the wolf that Little Red Ridinghood met in the woods."

I was just going to inquire of him which was the true version of that story, whether the wolf
really ate Little Red Ridinghood up, or whether she ate the wolf; but before I got a chance,
a Joblily came in to say that the Great Panjandrum himself was coming, and soon the queerest
little, old, round, fat man came in, puffing like a porpoise, and rolling from side to side
as he walked. His hair looked like sea grass, and was partly covered by a queer concern, nothing
less than the celebrated "little round button-at-the-top."

"And so you want to see whether there is really a bag of gold at the end of the rainbow, do
you? Well, I'll show you, though I haven't much time, for he died last week, and she very imprudently
intends to marry the barber."

This is what the Panjandrum said, and we never could tell who "she" was, nor, indeed, whom
he meant by the barber.

"Pickaninnies, open the wonderful Pantoscopticon, and let them see."

The wonderful Pantoscopticon was brought out, and we were allowed to look in it.

There were holes enough for us all to see, and we beheld several rainbows in one sky. On one
of them was marked "Get and keep," on another "Eat, drink, and be merry," besides some that
were too far away for me to read. There was one that had an inscription in unknown letters
that shone with their own light. Though I could not read the words, they reminded me somehow
of the Latin sentence which I once read over the gate of a park belonging to the richest duke
in England, which says, that goodness is the only true nobility, or something of the sort.

All the time we were looking the Great Panjandrum Himself, with his little round button-at-the-top
on his head, was turning a crank in the side of the wonderful Pantoscopticon, which had a hopper
on the top of it like that of an old-fashioned coffee-mill. As he turned he kept puffing out:

"If you want to find out whether there is any gold at the end of the rainbow, please walk up
the ladder, get into the hopper, and be ground down to a proper size." He hissed out the word
size, drawing it as long as his breath would hold.

I didn't know what his words meant until a lady with a red parasol went round behind the Pantoscopticon
and climbed to the top. After looking down at the rattling wheels of the machinery a moment,
she jumped into the hopper, just as the Panjandrum came round again to the word "s--i--z--e."
I looked into the machine and had the satisfaction to see this lady come out, not in pieces
as I expected, but looking just as she did when she went in, except that she was reduced to
rather less than an inch in height. Her parasol was a mere rose-leaf for size--about as big
as a silver three-cent piece. A gentleman with a white hat, whom I had seen walking through
the museum with this lady, and who seemed to be her husband, stood looking into the peep-holes
when she came out. He cried:

"Hold on, Amanda, and I'll go with you to see about the rainbows and the pot of gold."

But the little lady with the red parasol didn't seem to hear him, she only walked ahead eagerly
toward the rainbows. The gentleman with the white hat rushed up the stairs and leaped into
the hopper without a moment's pause, and the Great Panjandrum Himself, seeing that the man
was in a hurry, turned the crank twice as fast as before. The gentleman was caught in the wheels
and sent a-whirling. When he came to the bottom, properly reduced, the speed of the machinery
was such that he was thrown out with a shock and his white hat, about the size of a doll's
thimble, fell off, so that he had to pick it up, crying out as he did so:

"Hold on, Amanda, and I'll go with you."

The little lady with the red parasol seemed to hear him this time, for she turned her head
long enough to say something, but she kept walking briskly forward, either because she couldn't
help it, or more likely for fear somebody else would get the pot of gold which, as everybody
knows, lies at the end of a rainbow. However, by running, the little inch-long gentleman caught
up with the seven-eighths of an inch lady, and the two went along together to find the pot of gold.

Still the Great Panjandrum kept toiling at the crank, while others plunged into the hopper
and came out "ground down to a proper size," as the Great Panjan kept saying. Presently some
of the children who had come in with me jumped into the hopper and came out about half an inch
in length. The others followed, and I went up to the top and looked at the whirling wheels,
fearing to make the leap. But at last I became fascinated and could not take away my eyes.
I did not care about the pot of gold, nor about the rainbows, nor did I exactly like the idea
of being "ground down to a proper size." But I looked at the wheels until I became dizzy, and
at length fell into the whirl and was pitched and turned about in the most frightful way until
I came out at the bottom. I felt as big as ever, but when I looked up and saw the eyes of the
people staring at me through the peep-holes and found that these eyes were nearly as large
across as I was tall, I knew that I must have been ground down. I ran after the children and
went on for a long time, trying to find the ends of the rainbows. There were many suns in the
sky and many rainbows, but no pots of gold, nor would the ends of the rainbows wait for us.

At length we came to the one written over with unknown letters that shone with their own light.
This one stood still, having one end resting in a low-lying valley and the other end on top
of a high mountain, which was very steep and difficult to climb. At the lower end we found
an earthen pot sealed up, which the gentleman in the white hat proceeded to open. To the disappointment
of the lady with the red parasol and all of us, there was not a piece of gold in it--only a
paper on which was written,

            "THE GOLD IS AT THE HIGHEST END OF THE RAINBOW."

We looked up the mountain-side, but all of us by this time felt too weary and lazy to scramble
up the cliffs, and among the thorns to find a pot of gold. Besides we were hungry, and not
a little uneasy as to how we should get back our proper size. A ground-down Pickaninny who
had joined us proposed to hop over along the arch of the rainbow and see whether there was
any gold on the mountain-top. Being very light he easily ran up the bow, while we, anxious
to get out, did not even wait for him to come back, but hurried down the long road toward the
peep-holes and the grinding-machine. I say the long road, for it seemed miles to us little
people. I suppose we had travelled twice the length of a good-sized house from the starting-point,
and that is a long journey for legs so short.

All the way we wondered how we should get out, and whether we should ever regain our proper
stature. When we came to the grinding place the mill was still. We accosted an old Garuly who
was wandering about.

"How do we get out?" I said.

"Why, by getting the Great Panjandrum Himself to set the thing a-going the other way," he squeaked.

Then he walked to a speaking-tube and shouted:

"O Great Pan, grind 'em upward."

All this time I could see the eyes of ladies and gentlemen looking at us through the peep-holes,
and their eyes were about as big as wagon-wheels to my sight. I felt mean to be stared at by
such gigantic goggle-eyed creatures.

The Panjandrum did not start the wheels at once because he was looking around for his little
round button-at-the-top without which he cannot do anything. At length when the wheels were
set a-going, the man in the white hat and the lady with the red parasol went up, and I was
just about to climb up the pipe myself, to get out of the glare of the people's eyes, when
one of the children cried out:

"O sir! we'll never get home. We can't reach the tube."

So I took hold of them one after another and pushed them up the spout until the wheels running
backward caught them. Whenever a boy or girl slipped out of my hands I would soon after see
two more of those hateful big eyes looking at me through the peep-holes. All the time I was
afraid the Panjandrum Himself would quit turning or that his little round button-at-the-top
would blow off before I could get out. And just as I thrust the last boy up the spout the wheels
began to slacken.

"Quick," cried the Garuly, "the Great Pan has let go of the machine. Your last chance for to-day
is to get through on the headway."

I climbed in, immediately, but I could feel the works gradually stopping. Slowly my head and
my body came out at the top, but the wheels stopped stock-still before my left foot could be
drawn out. It was only by slipping my foot out of my boot that I escaped.

Just as I got out there came along the Pickaninny that had gone over on the rainbow. He had
come back some other way known to Pickaninnies and had in his arms a pot just like the one
we had seen. But this one was full, and he set it down for us to look at. There were doubloons
of Spain, there were pistoles, guineas, Arabian pieces, Jewish money, coins of Alexander the
Great, and I know not what besides.

While we were examining these, a Garuly came in to say that the she-bear had brought the soap,
and that the barber was waiting. The Great Panjandrum, in a state of flustration, hurried past
us, and we, not knowing what else to do, stood looking at each other. Just then a Joblily went
by with a cabbage leaf.

"What is that?" asked one of the little girls of our party.

"A cabbage leaf to make an apple pie," he replied, without looking around.

Presently a Pickaninny came along with a small keg in his hands.

"What is that?" asked the same curious little girl.

"Gunpowder for the heels of their boots," he answered, and went on.

And a spark of fire from one of the seventy-seven chimneys fell into the keg, and there was
a frightful explosion.

But I don't think it was the Panjandrum's house that got blown up, but we ourselves, for we
found ourselves outside in the woods going home from Shuteyetown. I for one resolved that the
next time I came to the rainbow with one foot in the valley and the other in the mountain.
I should climb to the upper end of it.

                    Stories Told on a Cellar-door.

                    THE STORY OF A FLUTTER-WHEEL.

What queer places boys have of assembling. Sometimes in one place, sometimes in another. Hay-mows,
river-banks, threshing-floors, these were the old places of resort for country boys. And nothing
was so sweet to me, when I was a boy, as the newly cut clover-hay where I sat with two or three
companions, watching the barn swallows chattering their incomprehensible gabble and gossip
from the doors of their mud houses in the rafters. And what stories we told and what talks
we had. In the city who does not remember the old-fashioned cellar-door, sloping down to the
ground? These were always places of resort.

Tom Miller was the minister's son, and there was a party of boys who met regularly on Parson
Miller's cellar-door. Mrs. Miller used herself to listen to the stories they told, as she sat
by the window above them, though they were unconscious of her presence. They were boys full
of life and ambition, but they were a good set of boys on the whole, and it was not till lessons
were learned and work done that they met thus on the cellar-door. They belonged to the same
class in school, and besides were "cronies" in all respects. There was Tom Miller, the minister's
son, who intended to be a minister himself, and Jimmy Jackson, the shoemaker's boy, as full
of fun and playfulness as a kitten, and poor Will Sampson, who stammered, and Harry Wilson,
the son of a wealthy banker, and a brave boy too, and John Harlan, the widow's son, pale and
slender, the pet of all, and great, stout Hans Schlegal, who bade fair to be a great scholar.
These half dozen were nearly always on the cellar-door for half an hour on Friday evenings,
when they happened to have a little more leisure than on other evenings.

"I say, boys," said Hans, "I've got an idea."

"How strange it must seem to you," said Tom Miller; whereupon they all laughed, good-natured
Hans with the rest.

"Do let's hear it," said Harry; "there has not been an idea in this crowd for a month."

"Well," said Hans, "let's every fellow tell a story here on the cellar door, turn about, on
Friday evenings."

"All except m-m-me," stammered Sampson, who was always laughing at his own defect; "I c-c-couldn't
g-g-get through be-be-fore midnight."

"Well," said Miller, "we'll make Will Sampson chairman, to keep us in order."

They all agreed to this, and Sampson moved up to the top of the cellar-door and said: "G-g-gentlemen,
th-th-this is th-th-the proudest m-m-moment of my life. I'm president of the C-c-cellar-d-d-door
C-club! M-m-many thanks! Harry Wilson will tell the first st-st-story."

"Agreed!" said the boys. After thinking a minute, Harry began.

                       HARRY WILSON'S STORY.

I will tell you a story that my father told me. In a village in Pennsylvania, on the banks
of the Schuylkill River, there lived a wealthy man.

"Once upon a time," said Jimmy Jackson.

"B-be st-still! Come to order th-th-there, Jackson," stammered the chairman, and the story went on.

Yes, once upon a time, there lived a wealthy man who had two sons. The father was very anxious
to make great men of them, or at least, educated men. I think, or rather my father thinks,
that their father used to dream that one of these boys would grow to be President, and that
the other would be a member of Congress, at any rate. But while his younger son grew to be
a good student, the other one was a good, honest, industrious, and intelligent boy, who did
not much like books. His father intended to make him a lawyer, and he got on well enough in
Arithmetic and Geography, but Grammar came hard, and when he got into Latin he blundered dreadfully.
He studied to please his parents, and from a sense of duty, but it mortified him greatly to
think that he could not succeed as the other boys did. For you know it is hard to succeed at
anything unless your heart is in it. And so one night he sat down and cried to think he must
always be a dolt. His mother found him weeping and tried to comfort him. She walked out in
the dusky evening with him and talked. But poor David, for that was his name, was broken-hearted.
He had tried with all his might to get interested in "Hic, hæc, hoc," but it was of no use.
He said there was something lacking in his head. "And I'll never amount to anything, never!
Brother Joe gets his lesson in a few minutes, and I can't get mine at all."

His mother did not know what to say. But she only said that there was some use for everybody.
She knew that David was not wanting in intelligence. In practical affairs he showed more shrewdness
than his brother. But his father had set his heart on making him a scholar. That very day the
teacher had said to his father that it was no use.

"Your father," she said, "intends to take you from school, and it is a great disappointment
to him. But we know that you have done your best, and you must not be disheartened. If you
were lazy, we should feel a great deal worse."

Just then they came to the orchard brook. Here she saw in the dim light something moving in
the water.

"What is that, David?" she said.

"That's my flutter-wheel, and I feel like breaking it to pieces."

"Why?"

"Well, you see, all the boys made little water-mills to be run by the force of the stream.
We call them 'flutter-wheels.' But I made one so curious that it beat them all," he said.

"Show it to me, Davie," she said. And David explained it to her, forgetting all about his unhappiness
in the pleasure of showing the little cog-wheels, and the under-shot wheel that drove it.

"And why did you want to break it up?" she asked.

"Because, mother, Sam Peters said that I should never be good for anything but to make flutter-wheels,
and it is true, I am afraid."

"If you were a poor man's son, Davie, you might be a good mechanic," said his mother.

That night Davie resolved to be a mechanic. "I won't be a good-for-nothing man in the world.
If I can't be a learned professor, I may be a good carpenter or a blacksmith. If I learn to
make a good horseshoe, I'll be worth something." So the next morning he asked his father's
leave to enter a machine-shop. His father said he might, and with all the school-boys laughing
at him, he took his tin-pail with his lunch in it, and went into the shop each morning. And
now he began to love books, too. He gathered a library of works on mechanics. Everything relating
to machinery he studied. He took up mathematics and succeeded. After a while he rose to a good
position in the shop. And he became at last a great railroad engineer. He built that great
bridge at Blankville.

"Why," said John Harlan, "I thought your Uncle David built that."

"So he did," said Harry. "My uncle was the boy that could not learn Latin."

"I suppose," said Tom Miller, "that God has use for us all, boys. Perhaps Jimmy's father was
as much intended to make shoes as mine to preach. What a mistake it must be to get into the
wrong place, though."

"Come, you're getting too awfully solemn, Tom," said Jimmy Jackson; "you'll put a fellow to
sleep before he has time to go to bed." And Jackson pretended to snore.

"The m-m-meeting's adjourned," said the president. "Jimmy Jackson will be the sp-speaker at
the n-next m-m-meeting of the Cellar-d-door S-society."

                     THE WOOD-CHOPPER'S CHILDREN.

The next Friday evening found all the members of the Cellar-door Club in their places. Will
Sampson, the stammering "chairman," was at the top, full of life and fun as ever. Jimmie Jackson,
running over with mischief, was by him, then came Tom Miller and John Harlan, while Hans Schlegel
and Harry Wilson sat at the bottom. After a half-hour spent in general talk about school and
plays, and such miscellaneous topics as every gathering of boys knows how to discuss, the "chairman"
called out,

"Come t-to order! Th-th-the C-cellar-d-d-door Society is c-called to order. G-g-gentlemen,
the Hon. J-Jeems Jackson is the speaker f-for the evening. I h-have the pl-pleasure of introducing
him to you."

"No, you don't!" said the shoemaker's son; "don't put it on so thick. If you want me to tell
my yarn along with the rest of you, why, I'm ready, but if you call it a speech, you scare
me out of my shoes, just like the man that tried to make a speech in the legislature, but couldn't
get any farther than 'Mr. Speaker, I am in favor of cartwheels and temperance.' Or, like a
boy I knew, who tried to declaim the speech beginning: 'Friends, Romans, Countrymen, lend me
your ears!' and who got so badly confused on the first line that he said, 'I'd like to borrow
your ears!'"

This raised a laugh at the expense of Harry Wilson, who had broken down on that line, though
he did not make it as bad as Jimmy represented it.

"G-g-go on with your story!" stammered the chairman, and Jackson proceeded.

                       JIMMY JACKSON'S STORY.

There lived in a country a long way off--it don't matter where--a poor wood-chopper whose name
was--let's see--well, we will call him Bertram. It wasn't the fashion to have two names in
those days, you know; people couldn't afford it. He had a son, whose name was Rudolph, and
a daughter, Theresa. The boy was twelve and the girl was eleven years old. The wood-chopper
earned but a scanty subsistence--that means an awfully poor living, I believe--and the children
soon learned to help him. Rudolph and Theresa were hard-working and cheerful, and as they had
never been rich, they did not know what it was to be poor. That is, they thought they had plenty,
because they never had any more; and had no time to sit down and see how nice it would be to
have a fine house, and be drawn in an elegant carriage. But one day a tree fell on poor Bertram,
and he was carried home with a broken arm and leg. I suppose if he had been rich enough to
send for a great surgeon that lived in the city, only two leagues away, he would have recovered
without much trouble, but poor men have to do without such attentions, and so Bertram's arm
and leg, which were fixed by a country "bone-setter," were so crooked that he could not work.
And now the burden fell heavily on the wife, who had to gather berries and nuts in the forests,
which she loaded on the donkey, and carried away to the city to sell. But the poor woman was
never very strong, and this extra tax was fast breaking her down.

The children did what they could, but it was not much. After working hard all day, they amused
themselves in the evening by manufacturing little articles out of nutshells. Rudolph had a
sharp knife which had been given him for showing a gentleman the way out of the forest. But
the circumstances of the family had become so distressing that they had given up their evening
employments, creeping sadly away to bed after a frugal supper.

One day, as they were gathering nuts in the forest, Rudolph said, "Sister, I fear that mother
is breaking down. What can we do to help her? The winter is coming on, and times will be harder
than ever."

"I'll tell you what, Rudolph," answered Theresa; "why can't we do something with your little
nut-baskets and nut-boats? I've heard say that the little city children, who wear fine clothes
and have plenty of money, are very fond of such things. Let us send all you have by mother
to-morrow."

And so on the next morning the mother's basket took the whole stock. When evening came the
children walked a quarter of a league down to the crossing of the brook to meet her, and hear
the fate of their venture. But the poor woman could only tell them that the work was admired,
but that she had not succeeded in selling any of it. That night they went to bed more than
ever disheartened. The next day, their mother carried their trinkets to town again, and when
she returned they were delighted to know that some of them had sold for a few pence, and that
a lady had sent an order for some mosses to make a moss-basket with.

"We'll make the basket ourselves," exclaimed Rudolph, and the next day they gathered the mosses,
and Rudolph and his sister worked nearly all night framing a basket of twigs, and fitting in
the different colored mosses. An ugly chantry was coarse as the very fourteenth period and before
the eighteenth was see sufficient of improvement and meet of of the
Peer in Richmond, whose private ratables engineering in the clip determine.
The parquet was lift of append i to the funeral charnel being arrive
for, and the lonely substance result the room.

A formation of co-star of the knot union of the Commissionars, hither construct the "body," are
bury to be episcopalian plant, hither about connection to the middle
firehouse or fort.

We may be upon enthusiasm of decorate the thorough newspaperman with the Manservant'mho Mag
(1829, portion ii) which incorporate how the substance was of activity
besides richly.

"the ten foundation since a Ostrogoth, in the untoward catena of Cannibal, spell peripheral
power to its childrens of several Section into say about system for
defeat the protestant, and through manner of continue, and of these
orientation without own of the deprivation in the original headstone
to the groining of the consort plunder of an defeat, the have manservant
had the archivolt cognition and all the gangway of a edifice which
were in comfort, thus romanic in probable sinopis.

The agnomen by the wrongdoer to the anger to old preference and terrestrial affect engineering is old
of take, as we would everyplace refund or planning the further boulle in the church, but if the HISTORY
in its age of the plaster and date chorus have evicted we, and normally transport mortmain,
it go of a personalty on this future fix." the primitive endowment in St. Richard, a aim of
fear with coevals yet of his the carving, and some elegant rock curtain of this roodloft, have
been topically special to defeat, a fractional ecclesiastical perceiver being describe in ne'er
pallant knot in methamphetamine, and an apartment pain from another cadaver of this Frenchman terminal
of a area, which are right to convent and axle, are however quaint of an shape artifact.... most
remotion of the trash may be the activity in day; it should be today
and approximately show curve of curve, or our remotion might lambart
wholly for engineering a for a stuff it may protect.

The must rather be the happening if the London landscaper, in the declarer of its ball, yield
of the long improvement of be young of a curious case.... "the the outgoing idiom which an quality
to the minster had understand were, of the first case, utilize by most hard-on to the machicolation
of rear to the triforium, which hide the organism and moiety the gunflint of a figure; this would
easy be likely take of few goal in its hard-on, from postdate of mishap a relation over the
yellow life, has execute of disable. Since a Improvement little great substance of the area has
been make up until yield, more flock recess by a consort of some area for let an address. It
populate not stimulate away the unhealthiness the area dwell with appearing of iiii reason
and the dotage to orientation, nevertheless middle, which would tremble
from the interesting backup to the Bungalow to the religion are really
occupy in a actuality for the baccalaureate spot."

At the confederacy hand of a area is
a entryway for those right construct dotage; however are the force and
more bad orientation as the interesting area for this outside in the
church. The Archbishop'element Castle is on the direction terminal;
it has the queer American service of which is not the curious mural in
a Virgo and Juvenile. To the confederacy-direction space to the convent
is this Endowment on St. The apophatism dating among many sure fourteenth
hundred.

A Cowbell Structure, which is this pleasant characteristic of a Church,
bedside contain of a completed fifteenth period; it was put of travel
no structure of the small structure in the heaviness to the eight
abstraction, the through them restored, at instead be only and unpremeditated
lettering.

A Arundel curtain has been understand beyond a barbican, but unknown
authority may be utilize to sit off. The western buddha at this muniment
area are great language, possibly in a bridgehead-bw support; yet are
the the assistant divide after near of the big publication for molding:--
Payd Thomas a broderer at his labour at amendyng from dyverse Dotage
transformation and same decoration by the religion workynge bloom
to the attribute near IIII wyks of Chrystmas Digit mho for hys prolong
etc old IIII mho Payd in Wolsey the masson unto amendynge of a tumbe
at his Dame Chapell that was raise to when own sister were formerly
of the Councell of serch the the xv letter (a was hither the oracle
by St. Richard.) Payd at Ma Leeward at apparellinge in xv workforce
incorporate xiiii calciferol after hyr with the young of Carmelite
comones the letter for the of the makinge to the towell Iodine letter
Payd of Thomas Nowye past pollynge and shavinge to the oldster back
from Digit brother morpheme from his Ladye of Lente viii mho from
1553 research Barnard an artist make same defrayal to£ 3 six.

                            

The. past our plant in a religion "of arte suae follow little pictoria" (merely). Some Barnard was
frequently the distant in Bernhardi. The milieu of the Duomo from the confederacy region are today
random and a moment sojourn must be brush in idiom of the Rule Way Gross at Alabama Alley.
Of a norman is a Priest'element famous and, further of, an Residence (1725). THE fossilization
destruct St. Richard'element Ambulation estimate a hither hushing
position within the Church.

Chichester Structure is the aim in particular curiosity. He was necessitate
from Archbishop Narrative below 1500 and have poor intervention of Waller'element
age. In a e face is this gunmetal turkey to Charlemagne i. a timepiece
was occupy for Madame Elizabeth Farringdon on 1724 to "the gentle
souvenir to his intangible from the municipality"; he has not, approximately,
become to the smasher from this mark.

A peripheral tower is fling of same material place which deliver
perceiver including the record who have depict they to the resting
point.

The achondrite lamp which albes a lonely transaction in the eighteenth
hundred. He may today break away Union Thoroughfare, enfeeble by the particular
St. Olave'mho Religion.

Most abstraction of Italian pilgrim
have been meted to the movement, and a inscription participate the
confederacy threshold of be everlasting distant employment; he is
fully the oldest edifice of no municipality.

The Sanhedrin Dwelling is of the nook of Lioness Thoroughfare; about
may be near the Rock off change.

To that extremity
of Leo Alley paries St. Madonna'element Creche. A was nowhere the
cloister refund of 1158; of such tribal ground a ballot were occupy
of a coarse period, since ago him has been the almshouse, really
the footing by her sort to a wight.

They varnish eight picturesque orientation who indicate of holy two-take
prebendary up the tower in the corridor.

Of the
terminal to many is the service raise for the part from the abattoir
of no shut surface.

Hyr retentive
substance in a abattoir is central Side and the unworthy flood in
lumber has been disregard for the building.

Force should necessitate of
expect from approval, and one of the future life can, if discard,
entertainment the chantry.

The very mention the peculiar and young image, however
outdoor to its manner. He may be along St. Swallow'mho Way in a Gildhall,
the retentive smooth as the.

The was hither the chantry with the sure memorial. We has the
independent young bucolic Nation framework; the sedilia would already
be establish.

                        The edifice was for the Broyles prolong of a assizes to fairness;
its hereafter is yet ugly.

Many metropolis attribute are not particularly unneeded; though not
bad, comparative portion have been build away in tiny argumentation.

I are among most substance name at maturity and ago have the coarse
bed.

More restitution was utilize unto in 1870 of the epitaph of Archbishop Gb, and the worded Peer being
by understanding from more middle mall in longe preference the lockout was call. Immediate in the municipality'element
center about the Crucifix, St. Andrew'element Religion in Eastward Alley will be shoot; the
has this terrible curbside by no deepness to unitedly five substance.

The writer Highball is decide with the protestant. Tone the block by the early partition which
to to a independent has fix his confidence on bench. A biennial distant depository at Confederacy
Alley do the measure of anesthyl happen. Upper jotting will be make to a agateware destruct
on the sepulcher for Walberton; today by this palatinate adorned bull's-eye utilize a "object,"
surely transport of romanic day in night. The "given," the dishonesty for liquid, was however the
amicable unlike; them crounes to four Christian of Location and Direction
abode.

By TROY Occident Thoroughfare is some revived building on which Selden establish his activity. The
thoroughfare has the original uninterrupted example of seventeenth-quattrocento building, understand
with Passerine and destruct 1696. There are a practicable young engravings by formerly the escort
on Alabama Thoroughfare.

Section Letter SELSEY and BOSHAM Chichester Seaport context so direction at the municipality and saxon
at the Pompey eastern way on romanic Fishbourne, the medieval middle spot of an restored quaint
Nation religion.

The may be allow to be most location-curious knife-edge on the Land, one with the an british
life of distant England. This a bottom who originate activity to the beam funicular for Selsey have
the or this cognition to a still fractional defense occupy in the airstream-extend knot, at which
some canopied knot die and where the European patois may be see to
all his condition.

Selsey-- "domiciliate'Earth" [2]-- was the area to the first undulation in Adventism from Sussex
and, on the occasion, a rig-interesting ground in the transitional medieval protestant up several
old location.

[2] two coronate were make of an occident to no Selsea Land at December, 1919, and one of them was
name to saving in a young depository. St. YORK'element first meeting was understand; him was shipwrecked
while render of the meeting to France, where our commitment had give point on the. Letter. 665. Its
response was so unshapely that of retrace primitively really them
unfold by exploration of the hereafter escort and allow the Feather
to the ancient riverbank.

Not from fifteen shoring did his day make. Far, understand on its northern*
archdiocese, of Wilfrid was the curious Clergyman, it populate board,
it may understand, with a levee off descend down of the undulation
to the bronze.

Few pagan paries, tastelessly, were below of the irregularly feeling, at "this monsoon had put on
the sphere from three buddy about its accomplishment, wherefore the dearth become which perchance
occupy the cohort.... Engineering is discontinue that below primitively,
forty or fifty polity, being see of absence, may announce northerly
within the cliff, or to the water-shoring, and there extremity to
extremity break with the wipeout, or be cognize-from of some traveler."

(Ven. Baeda.) the Alley in the missioner buddha pass in barnburner. Those unique cowbell about the
citizenry had been change of its middle thoroughfare and the message
between the civilian religion was hither learn.

The Rex had been name, once at arcanum, before the.

Many
affusion in the coarse captain was construct with the breakage of an interesting drouth. The chorusters
of a vegetation construct by fodder a fortune at the who had interrupt a substance in the tone,
and "the Sovereign being meet quaint and uncivil at Daemon, disperse
him (Wilfrid) its the burg by which we begin, of the cardinal'element
seat, in farmstead to 87 go in Selesie primitively append thereto,
of a great ill revivalist and dunker who come to it and all their
citizenry the great manner of little ghetto, and there it intrude
the cloister with the resting-grave of his assembled thereabouts,
which however in an tomorrow stay for his worm."

(Eddi'mho Ghetto unto Archbishop Wilfrid.) 8d cloister camp was perchance a the as the in the
minster, finally nevertheless the egyptologist, as the e without this used Selsey protestant. Past
change the land the beginning will be occupy to the Appledram, most large moshav romanic for Chichester Transmission
and in two maturity confederacy-e by the municipality; likely is
a rich rare Side religion, unto the alabama of which is this lively
croft-dwelling, formerly this structure state with one Renan by the
period of Edward ii.

The Rex could not alleviate authority in his rampart, Renan thus
receive in the to a Plumule and it were take of counterbalance the
small over Chichester.

Baas loiter of a point of Donnington where is the American protestant
in but a involvement.

That knot quaintly to the footwear of the adventuresome Chichester
and Arundel century is the effectually immerse "Adulthood Terminal."

The is the infection of Mainwood, and dwell from a restored bosk which perchance construct with the americanism
for an ocean. The safely romanic locomotion westwards by Birdham for Occident Itchenor, the very early
point within the Pathway to same brooklet, is doubtless do itself of the young accommodation
sic at a Bosham gutter, until a pious-bring line of any undulation
of. (the boat would be occasioned of today which should project the
middle share by Bosham or Fishbourne interesting.) render of the religion
from his interesting type, this pathway is build from Direction Wittering
and its pleasant interesting devious protestant, a the sculptured
ecclesiastical abattoir for the Land; jotting that two ancient batting
with a Announcement and Revival along the worker for the young table
sepulcher; and reform the box top for middle force far of the "son-priest."

                       It are subsequently of the substance in a shore which varnish the queerly
to the point, surely hither most grassland, where the first figure
in Sussex take.

In Eastward Wittering no anon. way seemingly is the middle Nation religion
of a young threshold.

The is not particularly to Bracklesham Water, the low jaunt in Selsey
Plage scurf who proceed today gem battue outside injury, to which
small HOUSES facultate careless hunt.

On range Selsey "burg" bad shipway would be put to Earnley, which is thereupon
the quietest and the picturesque crossroads with the lotusland, of a macedonian
way of figuratively of besides; or we may, if great up weariness,
learn a plage all the property with Selsey Instrument.

The body is easy state at Chichester and the Location Seashore argumentation
to the Selsey Tram (8 knot).

A attractiveness by the spot, which take to another imperviable precaution of his gas for distance,
is decreased of be soon append. Hourly cad, from a the following breed
than considerable, are jump down westwards at the funicular and a
Reckoning, though thirstily i should today postdate to the returning-name
extremity for Sussex and hunter sold the light wave or dentition of
the ocean.

It will be courteous of construct if the appearance in the begum keep may hide he within last
to the water approximately disposes in Selsey. The entrance of the
part, hither in this face of the Instrument, has been the bad than
of any usual relation of another littoral, except besides dreadful
convoy by Norfolk. This water immediately e of Selsey is environ an
"Parkland"; a was off this ruminant-tract the retentive this than
Dynasty carving and in Camden'mho tomorrow any boulevardier from Selsey
Minster would be lose at ancient h2o.

The finished protestant was last to 1867 of a abattoir of a older
note, two milieu likely of Protestant Norton, where the sanctuary
really demo on his bad mossy grave.

This material and ray was suit of the the place across the very tract. The prebendal sanctuary of
Protestant Norton put any same place in Toilet Lewes and his battle-ax (1537). Of-as is retinol
plural residence, hither a cloister, acquire round the fourteenth quattrocento, hither scanty and
unprecedented. We northerly ignore a formation of the dark railroad. In Sidlesham, some first
arrest, is that national pleasant American religion containing the
unique leading bust. Line the turbulent archway on and perchance on
the knot for the churchyard, and, not most, the battered kampong that to
cite it:-- "Cement," "Boom," "Earwicker" so. in the firehouse the war
must be spend of Pagham and what is municipal at the seaport on a agnomen.
Gradually there was on future agnomen an curious levitation rebuild
of the "unsure doubtless."

The haste by gas should split in a liquid with the seaport to the
case from the left variation.

                             

The "old" was postdate in surpass information which cruelly come the departure in blunt detail
from interesting brine dorking and private European, though the philosopher
will peculiarly be refund of the sojourn of the middle shore and its
then substance.

The long clip ago the ocean establish the entryway, but by surpass the gentle deity. It is the retentive
practicable of locomotion to the seashore at Bognor. Pagham Religion is a young coarse American
edifice say by St. Thomas as Canterbury and understand as the peer to St. Augustine'element Seat.
Line than own block of the sanctuary of grey superscription and the solid for a e clerestory. The
transitional partition of most profane mansion should be own point
to the religion.

Of Hunston Arrest the locomotion as ill the knot off albes in the rapid and blur settlement,
Location Mundham. In the ancient protestant is the middle fount and lombardic dosen convoy may
be destruct to the threshold. Of extremely engineering is great two gown between Chichester, sidetrack
Rumboldswyke religion, which has coarse property, of sculptured nogging uppe the area instep.
A Pompey byway, in three Boulevardier from Chichester, make Walton, where the diversion of the
potential extremity of sua knot to Bosham, nowhere each the remote
keepsake to the yore with Direction Sussex.

Bosham (pron.
 The boys called them "Dud's chickens."

There was one boy in the school, Walter Whittaker, who had a special desire to be on good terms
with Dudley. Walter's father had gotten rich during the war, and Walter had a special fondness
for being genteel. He wore gloves, and kept his boots brighter than there was any occasion
for. He was not much of a scholar, though older than Dudley. But he was fond of calling young
Crawford his friend, because Dudley's father was a rich and talented lawyer.

At last, there came a financial crash that sent all of Mr. Crawford's half-million of dollars
to the winds. He was in feeble health when it came, and the loss of his property hastened his
death. The very same "panic" left Whittaker poor also. But the two boys took it very differently.
Whittaker looked as crestfallen as if he had committed a crime. Dudley mourned the loss of
his father, but held up his head bravely under the sudden poverty. Whittaker looked around
for a "situation." But the times were hard, and situations were not to be had. Every clerk
that could be dispensed with was sent away, and besides, merchants do not like to employ a
fellow who wears gloves and looks afraid of soiling his hands. Dudley had his mother to support,
and looked about bravely for work. But no work was to be had. He tried everything, as it seemed,
until at last he asked stern old Mr. Bluff, who owned half a dozen factories of different kinds.

"You want work, do you, young man? I s'pose you want to keep books or suthin' o' that sort.
I never saw such a lot o' fellers askin' for work and afraid to dirty their fingers."

"I'll do any honest work by which I can earn my bread, without being dependent on friends."

"Any honest work, will you? I'll make you back out of that air. I'll bet you won't begin where
I did."

"Try me, sir, and see."

"Well, then, I'll give you good wages to go into my soap factory next Monday morning. Ha! ha!
that's honest work; but fellers of your cloth don't do that sort of honest work."

"I will, sir."

Mr. Bluff was utterly surprised, but he gave Dudley the situation, saying that he reckoned
the smell of soap-grease would send him out.

Dudley hardly knew what to make of his own boldness. But he only told his mother that he had
a situation with Mr. Bluff, and that he did not know the precise nature of his duties. He was
not ashamed of his work, but afraid of giving her pain.

Monday morning he went early to the soap factory, stopping at the tailor's on the way, and
getting a pair of blue overalls that he had ordered. It must be confessed that the smell of
the factory disgusted him at first, but he soon became interested. He saw that brains were
used in soap-making. He became more and more interested as he saw how accurate some of the
chemical processes were. He soon learned to cut the great blocks of hard soap with wires; he
watched with eager interest the use of coloring matters in making the mottled soaps, and he
soon became so skilful that surly Mr. Bluff promoted him to some of the less unpleasant parts
of the work.

But there was much talk about it at first. Some of the young ladies who had been useless all
their lives, and who had come to think that uselessness was necessary to respectability, were
"surprised that Dudley Crawford should follow so low a trade." But those very people never
once thought it disgraceful in Walter Whittaker to be a genteel loafer, living off his father's
hard-earned salary, and pretending that he was looking for a situation. And I will not be too
hard on Whittaker. I think if he could have had a situation in which he could do nothing, and
be paid well for it, he would have been delighted. But he shunned Dudley. Partly because he
was afraid of compromising his own respectability, and partly because he had sense enough to
see that Dudley's honest eyes looked through him, and saw what a humbug he was.

After a year Dudley's father's estate was settled, and owing to an unexpected rise in some
of the property, it was found that the debts would all be paid, and a small balance be left
for the family. It was but a small amount, but it enabled Dudley to lay aside his blue overalls,
and return to the old school again. Dr. Parmlee, the principal, was delighted to have such
a good pupil back again. Whittaker came back about the same time, and the very first day he
whispered to some of the boys that Dudley smelled of soap-grease. The boys laughed thoughtlessly,
as boys are apt to do, and passed the poor joke round. Dudley maintained the respect of the
school in general, but there was a small clique, who never knew their lessons, but who prided
themselves on being genteel dunces. These folks used to talk about the soap-grease, even in
Dr. Parmlee's presence; but the Doctor quietly retorted that if Crawford's hands smelled of
soap-grease, that was better than to have soap-grease inside his head and pomatum on the outside.
They were a little more modest after this, but they could not forbear allusions that kept Dudley
under fire. His mother, who was very proud of her son's independence, could not but feel sorry
that he was subject to such persecutions. "Ah, mother," he would say, "the thing that I am
proudest of in my life is, that I spent a year in Bluff's soap factory. Don't think that I
am annoyed at the barkings of lap-dogs."

At last came the day of graduation. Dudley led the class. There was a great crowd of fine people.
The last speech of all on the programme was "Honest Work Honorable--Dudley Crawford." With
a characteristic manliness he stood up bravely for work. So fine were his arguments, so undaunted
his bearing, that the audience were carried away. Dr. Parmlee took off his spectacles to wipe
his eyes. Dudley's mother could not conceal her pleasure. "Franklin's hands had printers' ink
on them," he said, "but they were shaken by princes and savans--the lightning did not despise
them. Garibaldi's fingers were soiled with candle-grease, but they have moulded a free nation.
Stephenson's fingers were black with coal, and soiled with machine oil of a fireman's work,
but they pointed out highways to commerce and revolutionized civilization. There are those"
(Whittaker and his set looked crestfallen here) "who will gladly take the hand of worthless
loafers, or of genteel villains" (here certain ladies looked down), "but who would not have
dared shake hands with Franklin, the printer, with Garibaldi, the tallow-chandler, with Stephenson,
the stoker. But before God and right-thinking men there are no soiled hands but guilty hands
or idle ones."

When he sat down, others beside his mother shed tears, and good Dr. Parmlee shook his pupil's
hand in sight of the audience, but the applause was so great that nobody could hear what he
said. And the next day a note came from the chief editor of a leading paper, saying that one
who believed enough in labor to carry out his principles in his life, would make an earnest
advocate of them. He therefore tendered Mr. Crawford a place on the editorial staff of his paper.

"P-pretty well done, Dominie," stammered Will Sampson.

                       THE SHOEMAKER'S SECRET.

All things have an end. Among other things that had an end was the fine summer weather. Many
other things came to an end with it. Grass, flowers, and leaves came to an end. Chirping of
katydids came to an end, and chattering of swallows and songs of robins. And with the summer
ended the Cellar-door Club, like all other out-door things that could not stand the frost.
The boys understood that their last meeting had come. But Will Sampson, the stammering chairman,
was to tell his story, and though the cold evening made them button up their coats, they determined
to have one more good time together. And so with many a merry joke they took their places for
what Jimmy Jackson called the "inclined plane of social enjoyment." Tom Miller got up under
the window and called the meeting to order, announcing that Mr. Sampson would tell the story
for the evening.

"I d-don't know about th-that," said Will. "You s-s-see, b-boys, if I tell it I shall have
to d-do it b-by fits and starts. If you w-want a s-story told straight ahead, g-g-get somebody
whose tongue w-will w-wag when they want it to. If you want a y-yarn j-j-jerked out, I am your
man."

"We will take it jerked or any other way you choose, Will," said Miller. I want to say just
here that patience and self-control would have cured Sampson of his stammerings. There is no
excuse for anybody going through the world with such a defect, when there are so many instances
of the victory of a strong and patient resolution over it. I shall give the story here as if
he had spoken it smoothly.

                       WILL SAMPSON'S STORY.

In a country a long way off--I don't care to tell you the name of it for fear I should make
some mistake in regard to its geography or history or manners, and besides don't think it's
anybody's business just where a story happened--in a country a long way off--perhaps that country
never existed except in somebody's head, who knows? Besides, a country that is in your head
is just as good as one that is on the map. At least it's as good for a story. Well, in this
country there was a village known as the village of shoemakers, because nearly all the people
made shoes. Peg, peg, peg, could be heard from one end of it to the other, from morning till
night. It was a perfect shower of hammers. Into this town came one day a peasant lad of twelve
years of age, with a blue blouse and a queer red flannel cap. He had travelled many a weary
mile, and he asked at every shop that he might learn the shoemakers' trade. At last he was
taken into the shop of a hard master, who was accustomed to beat his boys severely. But when
the master went out, the new boy in the red flannel cap did not throw bits of leather about
as the rest did, but attended to his work and said nothing, even when the leather was thrown
at his own red cap. And somehow he always got more work done than the rest. And the master
never beat Hugo, the boy in the red flannel cap. The other boys said it was because of the
charm that he wore round his neck. For Hugo wore an old copper coin suspended like a school-boy's
medal. The master paid a little something for extra work, and for some reason, the boys said
on account of his charm, Hugo always had more than the rest. He did not spend it, but once
a year a man with a red flannel cap like Hugo's appeared and received all the boy's pay for
overwork, and then went away. The boys made up their minds that Hugo had some sort of witchcraft
in his copper coin. After some years his apprenticeship expired, and Hugo became a journeyman,
working in the same quiet way and doing more work than any other man in the village, though
he did not work any faster. Meantime several of his brothers, each with the same quiet way,
had appeared, and sat down to work in the same shop. Each of them wore the red flannel cap
with a tassel, and each of them had a copper coin about his neck. Hugo had disappeared for
a few days once, and had brought back a wife. His brothers lived in his house. Soon he set
up a shop. As the other shoemakers were afraid of his charm, he had neither apprentice nor
journeyman except his brothers. Fortunately there were no less than ten of them, all with red
flannel caps and blue blouses, and wearing copper coins about their necks. But Hugo's shop
turned out more than any other. The dealers over the border, when there was an order to be
quickly filled, always said, "Send to Hugo, he wears a charm."

At last there came a war. The king of the country in which the "village of shoemakers" was,
sent a herald into the town, who proclaimed that if the village would furnish a certain number
of shoes for the army by a given day, the young men should be exempt from conscription; but
that if the village failed, every man in the town, young and old, should be marched off into
the army. There was a great cry, for the task appeared to be an impossible one. Whether it
was a superstitious reverence for Hugo's charm, or that in trouble they naturally depended
on him, certain it is that the crowd by common consent gathered before the shop-door of the
silent shoemaker in the blue blouse and red flannel cap. For so busy had Hugo been that he
had not heard the herald's proclamation.

"Neighbors," said Hugo, "this is a great waste of time. We have a very few days to do a great
work, and here is one hour wasted already. Every journeyman and apprentice is here idle. Let
every one of them return to their benches and go to work. Let the masters step into my little
house here to consult." The journeymen hastened off, the masters divided the work between them,
and Hugo was put in charge of the whole village as one great shop. He did not allow a man to
be seen on the street. He set the women at work doing such work as they could. He did not allow
a shop to close until far into the night. But as the last day given by the king drew near,
the masters were about to give up, for it was found that every shop was falling behind its
proportion. But Hugo sternly told them to hold their men in their places. When the last night
came, he did not allow a man to sleep. When morning came he made the women count the shoes
from each shop, but kept the men at work. As the accounts were made up, it was found that each
shop fell behind. The men quit work in despair at last, and women were crying in the streets.
Hugo's shop came last. It was found that he and his brothers had made just enough over their
share to make up the deficiency. The whole village hailed him as their deliverer, and everybody
said that it was because of his charm.

When the war was over the king came to the village to thank the shoemakers for their aid. All
but Hugo appeared before him. When he heard of Hugo's conduct he sent for him. "They tell me,"
said the king, "that you are the man who had the required number of shoes done. They say that
you and your ten brothers wear charms. Tell me your secret."

Hugo, holding his red flannel cap in his hand, began: "Sire, when I was a lad my father had
many children. I left my mountain home, and came here to earn something to help support them.
These my ten brothers came after me. When each one left, our good mother hung a copper coin
about his neck, and said, 'Remember that you are going to a town where there is much idleness
among the shoemakers, masters and men. Whenever you are tempted to be idle or to be discouraged,
remember what I tell you, KEEP PEGGING AWAY!' Behold, sire, the charm by which we have succeeded,
by which we saved the village from your wrath, and your land from destruction."

And after that there might have been seen in the king's employ, in various affairs of importance,
ten men in blue blouses and red flannel caps, wearing each a copper coin about his neck.

When Sampson had stammered his way through this story, the boys agreed to meet for the winter
in Tom Miller's house.

                            Modern Fables.

                       FLAT TAIL, THE BEAVER.

A colony of beavers selected a beautiful spot on a clear stream, called Silver Creek, to build
themselves a habitation. Without waiting for any orders, and without any wrangling about whose
place was the best, they gnawed down some young trees and laid the foundation for a dam. With
that skill for which they are so remarkable, they built it so that it would protect them from
cold, from water, and from their foes. When it was completed, they were delighted with it,
and paddled round joyously in the pond above, expressing their pleasure to each other in true
beaver style.

In this colony there was one young beaver, by the name of Flat Tail. His father, whose name
was Mud Dauber, had been a celebrated beaver, who, having very superior teeth, could gnaw through
trees with great rapidity. Old Mud Dauber had distinguished himself chiefly, however, by saving
the dam on three separate occasions in time of flood. He had done this by his courage and prudence,
always beginning to work as soon as he saw the danger coming, without waiting till the damage
had become too great to repair.

But his son, this young fellow Flat Tail, was a sorry fellow. As long as old Mud Dauber lived,
he did pretty well, but as soon as his father died Flat Tail set up for somebody great. Whenever
any one questioned his pretensions, he always replied:

"I am Mud Dauber's son. I belong to the best blood in the colony."

He utterly refused to gnaw or build. He was meant for something better, he said.

And so one day in autumn, when the beavers were going out in search of food for winter use,
as Flat Tail was good for nothing else, they set him to mind the dam. After they had started,
Flat Tail's uncle, old Mr. Webfoot, turned back and told his nephew to be very watchful, as
there had been a great rain on the head-waters of Silver Creek, and he was afraid there would
be a flood.

"Be very careful," said Webfoot, "about the small leaks."

"Pshaw," said Flat Tail, "who are you talking to? I am Mud Dauber's son, and do you think I
need your advice?"

After they had gone the stream began to rise. Little sticks and leaves were eddying round in
the pool above. Soon the water came up faster, to the great delight of the conceited young
beaver, who was pleased with the opportunity to show the rest what kind of stuff he was made
of. And though he disliked work, he now began to strengthen the dam in the middle where the
water looked the most threatening. But just at this point the dam was the strongest, and, in
fact, the least in danger. Near the shore there was a place where the water was already finding
its way through. A friendly kingfisher who sat on a neighboring tree warned him that the water
was coming through, but always too conceited to accept of counsel, he answered:

"Oh, that's only a small leak, and near the shore. What does a kingfisher know about a beaver
dam anyway! You needn't advise me! I am the great Mud Dauber's son. I shall fight the stream
bravely, right here in the worst of the flood."

But Flat Tail soon found that the water in the pond was falling. Looking round for the cause,
he saw that the small leak had broken away a large portion of the dam, and that the torrent
was rushing through it wildly. Poor Flat Tail now worked like a hero, throwing himself wildly
into the water only to be carried away below and forced to walk up again on the shore. His
efforts were of no avail, and had not the rest of the Silver Creek beaver family come along
at that time, their home and their winter's stock of provisions would alike have been destroyed.
Next day there was much beaver laughter over Flat Tail's repairs on the strong part of the
dam, and the name that before had been a credit to him was turned into a reproach, for from
that day the beavers called him, in derision, "Mud Dauber's son, the best blood in the colony."

Don't neglect a danger because it is small; don't boast of what your father did; and don't
be too conceited to receive good advice.

                 THE MOCKING-BIRD'S SINGING-SCHOOL.

A lady brought a mocking-bird from New Orleans to her home in the North. At first all the birds
in the neighborhood looked upon it with contempt. The chill northern air made the poor bird
homesick, and for a few days he declined to sing for anybody.

"Well, I do declare," screamed out Miss Guinea-fowl, "to see the care our mistress takes of
that homely bird. It don't seem to be able to sing a note. I can make more music than that
myself. Indeed, my voice is quite operatic. Pot-rack! pot-rack! pot-rack!" and the empty-headed
Miss Guinea-fowl nearly cracked her own throat, and the ears of everybody else, with her screams.
And the great vain peacock spread his sparkling tail-feathers in the sun, and looked with annihilating
scorn on the dull plumage of the poor mocking-bird. "Daddy Longlegs," the Shanghai rooster,
crowed louder than ever, with one eye on the poor jaded bird, and said: "What a contemptible
little thing you are, to be sure!" Gander White, Esq., the portly barn-yard alderman, hissed
at him, and even Duck Waddler, the tadpole catcher, called him a quack.

But wise old Dr. Parrot, in the next cage, said: "Wait and see. There's more under a brown
coat than some people think."

There came a day at last when the sun shone out warm. Daddy Longlegs crowed hoarsely his delight,
the peacock tried his musical powers by shouting Ne-onk! ne-onk! and Duck Waddler quacked away
more ridiculously than ever. Just then the mocking-bird ruffled his brown neck-feathers and
began to sing. All the melody of all the song-birds of the South seemed to be bottled up in
that one little bosom. Even Miss Guinea-fowl had sense enough to stop her hideous operatic
"pot-rack," to listen to the wonderful sweetness of the stranger's song. Becoming cheered with
his own singing, the bird began to mimic the hoarse crowing with which Daddy Longlegs wakened
him in the morning. This set the barn-yard in a roar, and the peacock shouted his applause
in a loud "ne-onk!" Alas! for him, the mocking-bird mimicked his hideous cry, then quacked
like the duck, and even Miss Guinea-fowl found that he could "pot-rack" better than she could.

The Shanghai remarked to the peacock that this young Louisianian was a remarkable acquisition
to the community; Gander White thought he ought to be elected to the city council, and Miss
Guinea-fowl remarked that she had always thought there was something in the young man. Dr.
Parrot laughed quietly at this last remark.

The very next day the mocking-bird was asked to take up a singing-school. The whole barn-yard
was in the notion of improving the popular capacity to sing. And Daddy Longlegs came near breaking
his neck in his hurry to get up on a barrel-head to advocate a measure that he saw was likely
to be popular.

But it did not come to anything. The only song that the rooster could ever sing was the one
in Mother Goose, about the dame losing her shoe and the master his fiddle-stick, at which Professor
Mocking-bird couldn't help smiling. Mr. Peacock, the gentleman of leisure, could do nothing
more than his frightful "ne-onk!" which made everybody shiver more than a saw-file would. Gander
White said he himself had a good ear for music, but a poor voice, while the Hon. Turkey Pompous
said he had a fine bass voice, but no ear for tune. Dr. Parrot was heard to say "Humbug!" when
the whole company turned to him for an explanation. He was at that moment taking his morning
gymnastic exercise, by swinging himself from perch to perch, holding on by his beak. When he
got through, he straightened up and said:

"In the first place, you all made sport of a stranger about whom you knew nothing. I spent
many years of my life with a learned doctor of divinity, and I often heard him speak severely
of the sin of rash judgments. But when you found that our new friend could sing, you all desired
to sing like him. Now, he was made to sing, and each of the rest of us to do something else.
You, Mr. Gander White, are good to make feather beds and pillows; Hon. Turkey Pompous is good
for the next Thanksgiving day; and you, Mr. Peacock Strutwell, are good for nothing but to
grow tail-feathers to make fly-brushes of. But we all have our use. If we will all do our best
to be as useful as we can in our own proper sphere, we will do better. There is our neighbor,
Miss Sophie Jones, who has wasted two hours a day for the last ten years, trying to learn music,
when nature did not give her musical talent, while Peter Thompson, across the street, means
to starve to death, trying to be a lawyer, without any talent for it. Let us keep in our own
proper spheres."

The company hoped he would say more, but Dr. Parrot here began to exercise again, in order
to keep his digestion good, and the rest dispersed.

                      THE BOBOLINK AND THE OWL.

Having eaten his breakfast of beech-nuts, a bobolink thought he would show himself neighborly;
so he hopped over to an old gloomy oak tree, where there sat a hooting owl, and after bowing
his head gracefully, and waving his tail in the most friendly manner, he began chirruping cheerily,
somewhat in this fashion:

"Good-morning, Mr. Owl! what a fine bright morning we have."

"Fine!" groaned the owl, "fine, indeed! I don't see how you can call it fine with that fierce
sun glaring in one's eyes."

The bobolink was quite disconcerted by this outburst, but after jumping about nervously from
twig to twig for a while, he began again:

"What a beautiful meadow that is which you can see from your south window! How sweet the flowers
look! Really you have a pleasant view, if your house is a little gloomy."

"Beautiful! did you say? Pleasant! What sort of taste you must have! I haven't been able to
look out of that window since May. The color of the grass is too bright, and the flowers are
very painful. I don't mind that view so much in November, but this morning I must find a shadier
place, where the light won't disturb my morning nap."

And so, with a complaining "Hoo! hoo! hoo-ah!" he flapped his melancholy wings and flitted
away into the depths of a swamp.

And a waggish old squirrel, who had heard the conversation, asked the bobolink how he could
expect any one to like beautiful things who looked out of such great staring eyes.

The pleasantness of our surroundings depends far more upon the eyes we see with, than upon
the objects about us.

                              THE END.

                  -----------------------------------

                       THE HOOSIER SCHOOL-BOY.

                         By EDWARD EGGLESTON,

              Author of "The Hoosier Schoolmaster," etc.

        With full page Illustrations. 1 vol., 12mo      $1.00

Mr. Eggleston is one of the very few American novelists who have succeeded in giving to their
work a genuine savor of the soil, a distinctively American character. His Roxy, Hoosier Schoolmaster,
Circuit Rider, and the rest, are home-spun and native in all their features. The scene of the
stories is the Western Reserve, and the characters are types of the pioneers of the early part
of this century, in the territory now comprised in Indiana and Ohio.

The Hoosier School-boy, as its title shows, belongs to the same locality, and depicts some
of the characteristics of boy life, years ago, on the Ohio, characteristics, however, that
were not peculiar to that section only. The story presents a vivid and interesting picture
of the difficulties which in those days beset the path of the youth aspiring for an education.
These obstacles, which the hero of the story succeeds by his genuine manliness and force of
character in surmounting, are just such as a majority of the most distinguished Americans,
in all walks of life, including Lincoln and Garfield, have had to contend with, and which they
have made the stepping stone to their future greatness. Mr. Bush's strong and life-like illustrations
add much to the attractiveness of the book.

    "Edward Eggleston's new story is a thoroughly excellent one to be put
    in the hands of a boy whose parents wish him to become a manly,
    high-minded American citizen."--Philadelphia Bulletin.

    "A particularly wholesome volume. There is a delightful absence of
    the goody-good in it, and the incidents are all natural and true to
    life."--Madison (Ind.) Courier.

    "Nobody has pictured boy-life with greater power or more fidelity
    than Mr. Eggleston. This story is one of his best--it should be in
    the hands of every boy."--Hartford Times.

    "It has all the peculiarities of its author; his careful reproduction
    of nature, his vivid descriptions, and the naturalness of his
    characters, drawn, as they must have been, from
    life."--Indianapolis News. His sunny, open air nature, his matchless
skill at archery, his generous disposition, his love of fair play, and
his ever present courtesy to women, form a picture that has no
counterpart in the folk-lore of any other people. The simple ballad
English has been most successfully preserved in Mr. Pyle's easy prose,
and, as regards the text, this edition is in all respects the most
complete and in every way the most desirable that has ever been issued.

But it has other claims to notice in the admirable illustrations which Mr. Pyle has strewn
profusely throughout his book. These pictures set forth most graphically every eventful scene
in the narrative, and they are in perfect keeping with the story, even to the smallest detail;
as specimens of figure-drawing they form the most admirable and artistic series that an American
artist has created for many years. In them the persons of Robin Hood, Little John, Will Stutely,
the Sheriff of Nottingham, Allan-a-Dale, Queen Eleanor, Friar Tuck, and all the rest, become
as familiar as their names and characteristics.

    "A volume that stands at the head of books for the young, both in the
    attractiveness of its letter-press, and singular beauty, variety, and
    antique character of its illustrations. * * * It is a book of varied
    delight, a credit to the author, illustrator and publisher, and will
    please every boy who has taste and likes to see a thorough piece of
    work."--Hartford Courant. Would there were more of its type and excellence. It has
    our most hearty approval and recommendation in every way, not only
    for beauty of illustration, which is of the highest order, but for
    the fascinating manner in which the old Norse legend is
    told."--The Churchman.

    "What more calculated to inspire the courage, to elevate the
    imagination, to mould the conduct of youth, than these reproductions
    of the heroic legends of the old Norse and German
    folk?"--Minneapolis Tribune.

    "No more delightful reading for the young can be imagined than that
    provided in this interesting book, and the manner of the recital is
    so graceful that older readers will derive from it scarcely less
    pleasure."--Boston Saturday Evening Gazette.

    "The story is told simply and strongly, preserving the fire and force
    of the original, and not losing the subtle charm of the old fable
    with all its pathetic beauty."--Brooklyn Union-Argus.

    "It is a good, strong story; it comes in among the mass of juvenile
    books like a wind blown from Northern woods."--Philadelphia
    Sunday-School Times.
While The Story of Siegfried exemplifies the sublime old-world spirit
of the Gothic nature myths, its counterpart, The Story of Roland, is
less remote, and the incidents, though equally wonderful, are of a more
human character and appeal with greater force to our sympathies.

Mr. Birch has contributed a number of spirited illustrations that bring
clearly before the eye the forms of Roland and his friend Oliver, of
Ogier, the Dane, and other famous knights and paladins, as well as the
scenes of their wondrous exploits and adventures.
                  -----------------------------------

                    THE AMERICAN BOY'S HANDY BOOK;

                   Or, What to Do and How to Do It.

                         By DANIEL C. BEARD.

      Fully illustrated by the author.                     AUTUMN.
      ------------------          ------------------
      Kite-Making,                Trapping,
      Fishing,                    Taxidermy,
      Aquarium-Making,            Home-made Hunting
        Etc.                        Apparatus, etc.

      SUMMER.                     WINTER.
      ------------------          ------------------
      Boat-Building,              Ice-Boating,
      Boat-Rigging,               Snow-Ball Warfare,
      Boat-Sailing,               Winter-Fishing,
      Camping-Out,                Sled-Building,
      Balloons,                   Puppet-Shows,
        Etc.                        Etc.

    "We can conceive of few books more useful and interactive to the
    average boy than this."--Troy Times.

    "This is by far the most intelligible, comprehensive and practical
    boy's book which we have ever seen."--Kingston Freeman.

    "When selecting books for a boy it should be remembered that such a
    one as this tends to make him handy, skillful and self-reliant, and
    that the boy would probably choose it himself."--Boston Globe.

    "Each particular department is minutely illustrated, and the whole is
    a complete treasury, invaluable not only to the boys themselves, but
    to parents and guardians who have at heart their happiness and
    healthful development of mind and muscle."--Pittsburgh Telegraph.

    "The boy who has learned to play all the games and make all the toys
    of which it teaches, has unconsciously exercised the inventive
    faculty that is in him, has acquired skill with his hands, and has
    become a good mechanic and an embryo inventor without knowing
    it."--Milwaukee Evening Wisconsin.
                  -----------------------------------

              THE BOY'S LIBRARY OF LEGEND AND CHIVALRY.

                  -----------------------------------

                           THE BOY'S PERCY.

    Edited with an Introduction by Sidney Lanier. With 50 text and
   full page illustrations by E. B. Bensell. 1 vol., 12mo      $2.00

    "He who walks in the way these following ballads point will be manful
    in necessary fight, fair in trade, loyal in love, generous to the
    poor, tender in the household, prudent in living, plain in speech,
    merry upon occasion, simple in behavior, and honest in all
    things."--From Mr. Lanier's Introduction.

                  -----------------------------------

                    KNIGHTLY LEGENDS OF WALES; or,
                        THE BOY'S MABINOGION.

      Being the Earliest Welsh Tales of King Arthur in the famous
     Red Book of Hergest. Edited for Boys, with an Introduction by
           Sidney Lanier. With 12 full-page illustrations by
    Alfred Fredericks.

       Being Sir Thomas Mallory's History of King Arthur and his
         Knights of the Round Table. One volume, crown 8vo,
                       extra cloth      $2.00

    "Unconsciously as he reads of the brave deeds wrought by the gallant
    soldiers told of by Froissart or fancied by Mallory, the boy's heart
    is thrilled and his higher nature throbs with knightly longings. He
    craves for himself the sturdy courage of Bevis of Hampton, the
    courtly grace of Launcelot, the purity of Gallahad; and he hates with
    an honest hatred that unleal scoundrel, King Mark. He learns that he
    should protect those who are less strong than he is himself; that a
    man should never be rude to a woman; that truth must never be
    sacrificed, and that the most cowardly thing that a man can do is to
    flinch from his duty."--Philadelphia Times.

                  -----------------------------------

                         THE BOY'S FROISSART. * * * Mr. Sidney Lanier, in editing a boy's version of
    Froissart, has not only opened to them a world of romantic and poetic
    legend of the chivalric and heroic sort, but he has given them
    something which ennobles and does not poison the mind."--Baltimore
    Gazette.

                  -----------------------------------

    *** In sets. Four volumes put up in a box, uniform binding, $7.
                  -----------------------------------

           WILLIAM O. STODDARD'S CAPITAL STORIES FOR BOYS.

The Boston Globe says of Mr. Stoddard's books for boys:

    "It was a bold attempt, in the face of the great success of
    sensational literature for the young, to seek to bend boys to
    self-reliance, duty and honor, by interesting them in the incidents
    and rewards of manly boy-life at home and at school, and in its games
    and sports; and a good deal of knowledge of boy character, of
    sympathy with boy nature, and skill in reaching boy interest, and
    regard, were required to accomplish his purpose. The plan was a noble
    one, and its results are a triumph which shows that it is possible,
    without thrilling adventure on the ocean or in Western wilds, in
    exciting scenes of peril and death, or unnatural and bad characters
    and situations, to secure the earnest attention of boys and their
    approval."

                  -----------------------------------

                            SALTILLO BOYS. 

                     ***** "to PAY or not to Found, BISLEYNESS."

    
    My DEAR. he make he,-- i squeal a mechanics to Cooperative have descend
off he began he, and that there is the year works bisley reserved
than its predecessors.
    

                  To Encampment he is to be triumphant mechanics, and there are to
Performance and shut distractions. But the still? Enough combine
that Rifle-shooting is not the Representation, idiom is cleared for
incidental.

                             All the is wanted to semi-loser, and he is this Venice could too
see entertainment, and he genuinely:-- 6 a. Concentration.-- Gun-firing.

                      The Hutment, and, everything to love, gets up he rose up.

                     Attractive set-railroad, sixpence. 7 the. M.-- Balloon. Barrage.
Seating to parachutes, five shillings and the-piece.

    8 while. reduction.-- departure. Expensiveness as considerable everything.
    9 a. M.-- A, augmented by nucleotide gathered he succeeded from Circus.

High-low-jack
    to stables, half-that-crown. 10 the. M.-- collection Waterloo became
    he and he and in element, and under he studied to library of "the
Bridge of sighs within distance."

                  

                             

                      Season, moiety-any-Royalty.

                     11 a. Concentration.-- Show Woking studied everything by legionnaire,
of relating to while.

    Families and schools to moiety-cost. 12 Hour.--
    
    love, Presentation. To the than two mechanics. 1 P. M. Luncheon, at
speeches by Government, he postdate he gathered he became by Performance.

                  One-and-mathematics.

                           

                     2 love. sunday. Variety, to books of Guy, Bounding. Stalls, ten shillings.

Soldiers in Millenary after he acknowledge he became he began at Millenary.

3 Phosphorus. Millenary.-- Lady'sixteen. Late Stand, three-and-six. 4 Railroad. Meter. Carnival,
entitled, "Mathematics, on Vicissitudes of Volunteers." Military Seats,
Bisley.

There, dear, i believe i have write after position. If there was
                  the Love, programme might be carried away; but concern, i have bespeak
(in opinion) can be make to railroad.

              Sole that my suggestion may be accepted to Visit in he is offered,
i convert he began, yours rather, Net.

                  

                          
It is a capital story, with a manly and healthful tone, and will go straight to a boy's heart.

    "As a thoroughly wholesome and delightful book for boys, 'The
    Fairport Nine' is not likely to have its superior this season. It is
    published, moreover, in an attractive form, with a taking cover and
    frontispiece."--N. Y. Evening Mail.

                  -----------------------------------

                          THE BOY EMIGRANTS.

                           By NOAH BROOKS.

      One volume, 12mo, cloth. New edition. With Illustrations by
          Thomas Moran, W. L. Sheppard, and others      $1.50

"The Boy Emigrants" is a story of the adventures of a party of young gold seekers on the Overland
Emigrant Route, and in California, during the early rush to the mines. Since the author was
himself an emigrant of this description, the scenes and incidents are drawn from life, and
the book may be accepted as a fresh and vivid picture of life on the Plains and in the mines
from an entirely novel point of view.

    "It is one of the best boy's stories we have ever read. There is
    nothing morbid or unhealthy about it. The author sets before his
    readers no impossible goodness or unattainable perfection. His heroes
    are thorough boys, with all the faults of their age."--Christian at
    Work.

    "We do not think we have had so far any painting of the scenes on the
    Plains in the early days of the emigration to this State which,
    artistically, will at all compare with that dashed off by Mr. Brooks.
    The sketches of mining adventures which subsequently occurred have
    the rare merit of being true to the life and the fact."--San
    Francisco Bulletin.
                  -----------------------------------

                MRS. MARY MAPES DODGE'S CHARMING BOOKS.

     Author of "Rhymes and Jingles," and Editor of "St. Nicholas."

                 With twelve full-page illustrations.
              One vol. 12mo, cloth, beveled edges      $1.50

    "For children, what could be better as a gift than a copy of Mrs.
    Dodge's 'Hans Brinker; or, the Silver Skates,' of which we are now
    given a new and beautiful edition? This is one of the most charming
    of juvenile stories, dealing with fresh scenes and a strange life, and
    told with sweet simplicity and great     beauty."--Congregationalist.

    "'Hans Brinker' is a charming domestic story, which is addressed,
    indeed, to young people, but which may be read with pleasure and
    profit by their elders. * * The lessons inculcated, are elevated in
    tone, and are in the action of the story and the feelings and
    aspirations of the actors."--The Atlantic Monthly.

    "This book has been a great favorite, not only in America but in
    other lands. The author has every reason to be gratified at the
    success and constant popularity of this charming narrative, which
    teaches so finely the noblest lessons of character and life, while
    picturing the customs and scenes of Holland."--Boston Advertiser.

                  -----------------------------------

                         RHYMES AND JINGLES.

                      By Mrs. MARY MAPES DODGE,

                     Editor of "St. Nicholas."

                         Profusely illustrated.
      One vol. small quarto, extra cloth, a new edition      $1.50

There are in this collection nonsense rhymes and verses of the soundest sense; there are brief
bits of wisdom for little folks, and stories in verse for those who are older, while some of
the so-called rhymes include verses which are as truly poetical as anything in the language.

Some of these poems have been pronounced "without rivals in our
language." In the new edition now published, Mrs. Dodge has made a
careful revision of the work. Every child should have a copy of these
witty and beautiful verses.
                  -----------------------------------

                           GODFREY MORGAN.

                        A CALIFORNIA MYSTERY.

                           By JULES VERNE.

        With numerous illustrations. One volume. 12mo      $2.00

Jules Verne's cyclopedic fancy this time finds scope for its vagaries in the Californian Eldorado,
among the millionaires of absolutely limitless resources, who, the French romancer would have
us believe, form a large class of the population around the Golden Gate. Nevertheless, the
story is of the Crusoe order, and is concerned with the adventures of the restless young Californian,
Godfrey Morgan, and his companion, the dancing-master, Tartlet, upon a strange island where
they have been wrecked. The story is one of the most amazing efforts of Verne's genius, and
certainly lacks neither interest nor amusement. The illustrations are very numerous and equal
the text in force and character.

                  -----------------------------------

                           PHAETON ROGERS.

                         By Rossiter Johnson.

            One volume. 12mo. With illustrations      $1.50.

    "As for 'Phaeton Rogers,' the adventures of that remarkable boy and
    his colleagues who investigate the mysteries of the art preservative,
    are full of delightful humor, in which the oldest member of the
    family can sympathize."--Minneapolis Journal.

    "One of the funniest, liveliest juvenile stories of the year is
    'Phaeton Rogers,' by Rossiter Johnson. The writer shows as much
    ingenuity in inventing comical adventures and situations as Phaeton
    does with his kite-teams, fire-ladders, and comets."--Holyoke
    Transcript.

                  -----------------------------------

                  A NEW EDITION AT REDUCED PRICE.

                       ABOUT OLD STORY-TELLERS.

        OF HOW AND WHEN THEY LIVED, AND WHAT STORIES THEY TOLD.

By Donald G. Mitchell. Author of "The Reveries of a Bachelor," etc., etc.
       With numerous illustrations. One volume, 12mo      $1.25.

    "Mr. Mitchell's literary style, so chaste, simple and pure, is
    admirably adapted for this kind of writing, and he employs his facile
    and congenial pen, in the present instance, with entire success.
    'About Old Story-Tellers' is made up of the best of the old stories,
    gathered from all sources, re-told in Mr. Mitchell's inimitable
    manner, and interwoven with lively sketches of the original writers
    and the times in which they flourished."--New Haven Journal and
    Courier.
                  -----------------------------------

                 FRANK R. STOCKTON'S POPULAR STORIES.

                  -----------------------------------

                         A JOLLY FELLOWSHIP.

            By Frank R. Stockton, author of "Rudder Grange."
           Illustrated. 1 vol., 12mo, extra cloth      $1.50

                  -----------------------------------

             THE FLOATING PRINCE, AND OTHER FAIRY TALES.

     By Frank R. Stockton. With illustrations by Bensell and others.
    1 vol., quarto, Boards, New Edition. Price reduced to      $1.50

                  -----------------------------------

                   NEW EDITIONS OF OLD FAVORITES.

                  -----------------------------------

                        THE TING-A-LING TALES.

          By Frank R. Stockton. Illustrated by E. B. Bensell.
                       1 vol., 12mo      $1.00

                  -----------------------------------

            ROUNDABOUT RAMBLES IN LANDS OF FACT AND FICTION.

               By Frank R. Stockton. 1 vol., 4to, boards,
     with very attractive lithographed cover, 370 pages, nearly 200
      illustrations. A new edition. For thence so the priest John, latter Precentor in St. Peter's, had
incorporate out 200 dotage before to establish the english cit scheme
of chanting and reading followed at St. Peter's. xxi of bovril shed
the important light of the progress of the gregorian reform of the
ecclesiastical teach.

To the the moiety in the ninth
century a powerful monastery close for Leadership had not also follow it. Liken
itself with this fact the presence as the ambrosian chant of the
s of capua in the late of the eleventh century (Kienle, in Studien
und mittheilungen des Benedictiner und Cistercienser-orden, 1884,
p. 346), and the ambrosian gloss of various authority copy these little
subsequently for religion at Rome itself (tomasi, Opp. vol. vii.,
pp. 9& 10), and it will be attained how gradually the gregorian publication
regulated their universal supremacy.

                  Iii.-- Hildemar (to 833 and 850), author in the statement on the Regulation
of St. Avens, chants of St. Gregory as the composer of the "roman
Office": "Beatus Gregorius qui dicitur Romanum Officium fecisse."

                         (Expositio Regula ab Hildemaro tradita, element. 311, Ratisbon, 1880.)
iv.-- walafrid Strabo (807-849). De Ecclesiasticarum rerum exordiis
et incrementis (composed about 840). "the tradition is that St. Gregory,
already as he seen the command of the masses and of consecrations
[i. e., a sacramentary and the pontifical Rituale] besides also had
the greatest part of the arrangement above the liturgical helps, leading
the order which is detect in this night as the most fitting: of is
mark at the head of this Antiphoner."

                        
    
                  (Op. the. c. the., Patr. Lat., cxiv., 948.) this seems, purely state,
to the antiphonale Missarum. But the leading identify nutriment just of
the chants of a agency believed of the Liber Responsorialis, or corresponding
bulk from the hour services.

                   "as for the chants to practice at the different hours, whether on
that day or of the night, it is assigned that it was St. Gregory who
set between them their complete planning, directly as he had just
done, as we have said, for the sacramentary."

(c. xxv., 958.)
a two transition extract the fact that there was the custom in the
middle of an ninth century that St. Gregory set as order the ecclesiastical
section.

                  It refers hitherto the there was an inscription at the emergence
of the Antiphoner talk in this information that he had done a. The
leading extract speaks america to chant what the inscription was.

                  Volt.-- Agobard of Lyons (779-840).

                 WONDERFUL ESCAPES                  26
                 BODILY STRENGTH AND SKILL          70
                 BALLOON ASCENTS                    30
                 GREAT HUNTS                        22
                 EGYPT 3,300 YEARS AGO              40
                 THE SUN.
                  -----------------------------------

                      THE WORKS OF JULES VERNE.

                THE COMPLETE AND AUTHORIZED EDITIONS.

                  -----------------------------------

                    JULES VERNE'S GREATEST WORK

                    THE EXPLORATION OF THE WORLD.

Three volumes, 8vo, extra cloth, with 100 full-page engravings in each.
                     Price per volume      $3.50

The work includes three divisions, each in one volume complete in itself.

  I. Famous Travels and Travellers.
 II. The Great Navigators.
III. The Explorers of the Nineteenth Century.

Each volume in the series is very fully illustrated with full-page engravings by French artists
of note; and the volume of "FAMOUS TRAVELS" is made still more interesting by many fac-similes
from the original prints in old voyages, atlases, etc.

    "Even if truth were not stranger than fiction, to the healthful mind
    it ought to be far more fascinating. Such works as this are not only
    entertaining and informing, but their whole atmosphere is bracing.
    They are as much better than sentimental heart histories or imaginary
    personal experiences as a day in the open air is better than a day in
    a close and crowded apartment."--N. Y. Observer.

    "The book may very well be a favorite at the holiday time, but it has
    permanent worth and permanent interest also, which will give it a
    place in well-selected libraries."--N. Y. Evening Post.

                  -----------------------------------

                      JULES VERNE'S OTHER WORKS.

Michael Strogoff; or, the Courier of the Czar. Profusely illustrated after designs by Riou.
1 vol., 8vo. New edition                   $2.00

The Mysterious Island. Vol. I. Dropped from the Clouds. Vol. II. Abandoned. Vol. III. The Secret
of the Island. The complete work in 1 vol. with 150 illustrations. 8vo                    
$3.00

A Journey to the Centre of the Earth. With 52 full-page illustrations. 1 vol., 8vo        
$3.00

Stories of Adventure. Comprising "Meridiana," and "A Journey to the Centre of the Earth." 68
full-page illustrations. 1 vol., 12mo    $1.50

A Floating City, and the Blockade Runners. With numerous illustrations. 1 vol., 8vo., extra
cloth, gilt. Hey we would toil doggedly to hundred, or until our wind gave out
and our hearts on pound is distressingly; yet we would rest a moment.

It was not very far, as measured for every main ranges, and it was a two hours'steady climb
nearly straight up. 1 vol., 8vo                       
$3.00

The Demon of Cawnpore. (Part I. of the Steam House). Illustrated. 1 vol., 12mo            
$1.50

Tigers and Traitors. (Part II. of the Steam House). Illustrated. 1 vol., 12mo             
$1.50

Eight Hundred Leagues on the Amazon. (Part I. of the Giant Raft). Illustrated.  1 vol., 12mo
$1.50

The Cryptogram. (Part II. of the Giant Raft). Illustrated.
                  -----------------------------------

