 Then
people awoke, and believed that he had attended an instruction. Babuca said: "This quanto good
man has done has been for the hell of two or three hundred citizens own, but his intention was
good, and this is no reason to destroy Persepolis.

Brought him, emerging from this gathering, to see a public holiday that was celebrated every day
of the year in a kind of basilica, whose inner part via a palace. Were so beautiful spectacle
most beautiful women citizens of Persepolis, and the main Satraps arranged in order, at first
believed Babuca that came down to this party. In brief dexaron be seen in the vestibule of the
palace two or three people who looked like kings and queens; their language was very different
from the fashionable to the masses, and had rhythm, harmony and sublimity. No one is sleeping,
we all listened in silence high, and if interrupted him, was to give tests of general admiration
and affection, and with senses so alive and well spoken terms the obligations of the kings,
love of virtue, and the risks of the passions, that drew tears to Babuca: who no doubt were the preachers
of those rule heroes and heroines and those kings and queens who had just heard, and even made purpose
of persuading Ituriel that came to listen, some of which show similar you reconcile with Persepolis
forever.

After the party, wanted to visit the queen at the main palace was beautiful announced and unblemished
moral sublime. Introduxeran had him at her majesty, and I took a bad ladder to the second floor,
where am in a room poorly adorned and furnished a poorly dressed woman, that noble and pathetic
gesture, he said: "My job gives me no to live, one of the princes who have seen has made me
a child: I am ready to be delivered: no I have money, and without money every birth is a miscarriage.
Darics Babuca gave him a hundred gold, saying: If there were worse
things in the city, Ituriel had little reason to be so angry.

Was there to spend the afternoon at the shops of merchants of magnificence superfluous. Brought
him an intelligent sugeto who had befriended him, bought what I find to their liking, and many
courtesies sold it much more expensive than it was worth. Quando had returned home, let him see
his friend that he had been swindled, and pointed Babuca memory in his book the name the merchant,
for the day of the punishment of the city not take Ituriel forgotten. While writing, knocked
on the door and entered the merchant who brought him to his pocket Babuca forsaken had been
forgotten on the counter. ? As possible, he said Babuca, so that you may be generous and scrupulous,
after having had face to sell your buxerias four much more than they're worth? There throughout
the city, he answered the merchant, merchant none something known, had not come to bring the pocket,
but I have said Quando I I sold in my store that have bought the quadruple in value, you've
been deceived, because I've sold ten times more than what it is worth, and this is so true that
if within one month you get rid of it you want, will not give or tithe, and there is more thing
however as to reason, because as the whim of men that gives value to these trifles, that same
feeds craving hundred workers who use me and my house gives me a good start, a good car, and good
horses. This craving is the one who gives life to the industry, and keeps the fine taste circulation
and abundance. The nations neighboring towns sell them much more expensive than you the same
trifles, and thus serve to benefit the empire.

Paros thoughtful Babuca a, time, and then delete it from his book.

Not knowing what to think of Persepolis, was determined to see wizards and writers, flattering
himself that such a pardon would reach all the rest of the people, because some apply to the
wisdom, and religion of others. The next morning was to visit a school for witches, and he confessed
that he was Archimandrite three hundred thousand crowns for having
taken a vow of poverty, and exercies a vast jurisdiction under another
vote humility.

That said, I leave to Babuca in the hands of a magician's apprentice, so gave her.

Ensenabale that the beauties of this house of penance, when the voice spread who brought commission
for reform. Memorials given point each, that all essentially came to say Conservadnos us and remove
all others. If credit was their own apologies, all these congregations were necessary, if attended
to their mutual charges, all deserved to be destroyed. Babuca Pasmabase that there is none that
by building the universe, did not want to be the referee. Then a man Presentosele I was semi-magician,
qual said to him: The great work is going to comply, and has returned to Zerdust earth: therefore
I request that you ampareis against the Grand Lama. ? With that against the pontiff monarch
replied Babuca, which lies in Tibet? - against the same .--? For what? you make him war, and alistais
against an army? - not that, but says that man is free, and we do not believe: we write against
the tomes do not read, and we've heard hardly mind, because we just condemn, as an owner who
sends remove caterpillars from their garden. Babuca Asombrose the folly of men who profess the
wisdom, the tangle of that had renounced the world, lofty ambition and greed of those who preached
humility and disinterest, and gathered that left over good reasons
to Ituriel to destroy all this race.

He retired to his home, sent to buy her new books to calm his anger, and bade eat several writers
for recreation. Reached more than double what had been called as Wasps go to honey. They did
not ford these gorreros to speak and swallow, and praised two classes of men, the dead and their
own, but never to their peers, except the householder. If you said one is a saying acute baxaban others
eyes and bit his tongue feeling of not including the authors. Were less cautious than mages
because they aspired his ambition at such high objects, asking each servant's employment and reputation
of a great man. They began to insults in his face, that they contained sharp epigrams. Habiaseles
Translucent some of the commission of Babuca, and one voice descends beg him to exterminate an
author who had not given enough praise, another asked what the loss of a citizen who in his plays
never laughed, and another the extinction of the academy, because they never had been get to be your
guy. Finished eating, they went away all because in this whole bunch there was two that might
suffer, or talked more than in the homes of the rich than your table guests. Babuca believed that
very little was lost with all this Landre perish in the general destruction.

Just

pulled away from them, began to read some books that had just been published, and warned them
the character of his guests. Indignaronle most of all the newsletters of slander, and files
in poor taste dictated by envy, hunger and stupidity, vile satires that respect and tear buytres
pigeons; novels lack of imagination, where thousand portraits are ideal sugetos their authors do
not know. Tyre fire these detestable writings, and came home that afternoon to go for walks.
A literary Presentaronle old man who had not been to increase the number of blobs. Dodging the crowd,
knew the men, wise use of them, and explained to sanity. Spake Babuca with feeling of quanto had
seen and read. Despicable things you have read, The lawyer told him sane, but at all times
and in every country is very common evil, and very rare good. You have been hosting at your
table to the stool of pedantry, because in all profession that is always presented with more chutzpah
is the least deserving out of the square. They live with each other, calmer and in retirement,
the truly wise, and still no shortage of books and authors are entitled to your attention. While
he was talking, I get another writer, and his arguments were so instructive and pleasant,
so far superior to concerns, and so in accordance with virtue, who confessed that he had never
heard Babuca such thing. Men are these, he said to himself, who will not dare to do evil angel
Ituriel, unless it is very ruthless.

No less anger kept the rest of the nation, since it had reconciled
with the literati.

You are a foreigner, he said to the wise man who spoke, and it will show of crowd abuse, while
you hide the well hidden, and that often these same abuses it. He knew then that there was among
many who were not writers envious and even among some who were virtuous wizards. Finally understood
that these large bodies clashes with its apparently preparing common ruin, were in fact beneficial
foundations; each association of wizards was a brake on his rivals, for if sometimes these differed
from opinion, all teach the same morals, who taught the people and subject to the laws, such Zelan the
preceptors that the children at home, while the master Zela them. Treatment many, and found
among them heavenly souls, and knew that among those same crazy they wanted to bring war to the Grand
Lama, had great men. I suspect they could after same thing Persepolis customs of their buildings,
which had seemed a worthy of pity, and others had overwhelmed in astonishment.

One day he said to the writer: Now I know that the Magi, which had been so dangerous, can be very
helpful, especially Quando a prudent government that hinders grange
Influx left:? but profits may result from the colossal wealth of the
contractors and agents of the Treasury?

That same day saw the opulence of these, which had so disgusted, sometimes produces much fruit,
because having the sovereign needed money, I find in one hour through him as through regular
channels in six months had not found, and conventional that these brown clouds, fed with the dew of
the earth, I returned in rain what they received them: besides that the children of these new men,
usually more well educated than those of the oldest families, worth more than these, because having
a father a good calculator does not remove a judge who is right, brave soldier, and skilled statesman.

Slowly
forgive Babuca greed of the settlement, which in reality is neither more nor less greedy than
the others, and is indispensable; apologized to dispel his madness flow for war, that war was
the source of many exploits, and forgave the jealousy of writers, among whom were sugetos illustrating
the world is reconciled with ambitious magicians and stagehands,
who gathered with small vices great virtues, since you were not unscrupulous,
especially on wooing the ladies, and the horrendous consequeencias
that inevitably had to produce, and filled him with horror and fright.

Wanting to examine all statements made to bring him home from a minister, and on the way would
see a woman shaking her husband murdered by his presence. I get to third base of the statesman,
and spent two hours waiting for Dixer he was there, and other two after they had said, by this
time very firm purpose to recommend the minister and his insolent anger of the angel concierges
Ituriel. Was the crowded waiting room ladies of all kinds of wizards
of all colors, judges, merchants, officials and pedantic everyone
was complaining to the minister.

They said the greedy and profiteers: There is no doubt that this guy steals the provinces; disfigured
his flamboyant oddities, said the only sensual has had his tastes, and hoped the women would soon
replace him another minister more handsome.

Babuca heard all these reasons, and could not say, iQue is this man so happy! All your enemies have
them in your waiting room, their power overwhelms their envy, and looks quantos plants to hate him.
At last came into his cabinet, and saw an old man overwhelmed of years and chores, but still
alive, and very smart. Babuca Gustole because it seemed Babuca one worthy of esteem sugeto. The
conference was very interesting: the minister confessed it was most unfortunate man, who had by
rich and poor was, that he believed omnipotent and all was impaired,
that all benefits had been paid with ingratitude, and in forty years
of continuous tasks had been just a bit of satisfaction.

Enterneciose Babuca, and said among themselves that if he had made some mistakes this man,
and they loved him Ituriel punish angel, dexarle enough to charge, not exterminate.

I was arguing with the minister, when I enter the beautiful lady inattentive in whose house had Babuca
eaten, showing his face and eye symptoms of pain and anger. Burst out in bitter complaints against
the statesman, shed tears, lamented bitterly that her husband had denied a charge that could achieve
on its cradle, and that they made him creditor his wounds and services and speak with so much energy,
complained with such grace, faded with mana such objections, provided eloqueencia strengthened their
reasons, that left the cabinet until having the fortune of her husband.

Salio Babuca giving his hand and said to him: Is it possible, madam, that you have taken so much
work you by a man who you want, and how much you have to be afraid? ? How is it you do not love
him? replied the lady, know that my husband is the best friend I have in this world, and that
sacrificeth quanto by all I have, as it is not my lover to do the same thing, less sacrifice his
sweetheart. I want you to know it, it's a very nice lady, very quiet, and excellent genius
had dinner tonight with my husband and my friend the magician: come to join our taste.

She took the lady with him Babuca, and the husband who was plunged into deep grief over received
to his wife in a fit of gratitude and joy, give thousand hugs to his wife, his lady, the magician,
and Babuca. The banquet is encouraged by the happy, thanks and Donayre. Know, he told him the beautiful
lady who was having dinner, which is sometimes described as almost always women without honor
possess the virtues of an honest man, and in proof of this, come dine with me tomorrow home of the
beautiful Theon.
 The old peripatetic he said
with confidence: The soul is a entelechia, a reason under the qual is power being what it is,
so what Aristotle says expressly, pag. 633 of the edition of Louvre: Entelexeia esti, etc.
I do not understand the Greek, 'said the giant. Nor I, "replied the plowman philosophical. ? Well,
that citais, "replied the Syrian, in that Aristotle in Greek? Because what you do not understand,
"said the sage, it must include language that does not know.

I take the Cartesian thread, and said: The soul a pure spirit in the womb has received all the
metaphysical ideas, and so leave the has been refined to go to school and relearn what we
knew so well and never gonna know. For these prospered, the animal responded eight leagues,
who could both remember when I was in your soul the womb of your mother, if had to be so ignorant
Quando were your man with a beard. ? Y you mean by spirit? ? That's what I ask? he said the
discurridor, I have no idea none of it: they say that it is not subject .--? And you know what
is matter? That if you answered man. That exemplo stone is brown, and such a figure, has three
dimensions, and is serious and divisible. That's right, he said on Sirius? But that thing
that you think divisible, serious and dark, I'll say it is? Some attributes see but? The backbone
of these attributes you know? No, he said the other.

Then you do not know that something is the matter.

Addressing Mr. Micromegas then another wise beyond his thumb had, asked who was his soul, and
he was doing. Any thing, "replied the philosopher Malebranche; It is God who does everything for
me, I see it in everything I do in everything, and the one who all cooperation does not mine.
Both mating does not exist, "replied the philosopher of Sirius. ? And you, friend told him to
Leibniz who were there, you say? ? That is your soul? A pointer Relox, he said the Leibnizian, which
indicates the hours while you touch my body, or, if you will, touches
the soul as the body signals; or my soul is the mirror of the universe,
and my body mirror frame: this is clear.

Estabalos hearing a sectarian Locke, and when I touch him speak, he said: I do not feed, I know
is that I never thought of as not through my senses. That has substance immaterial and intelligent,
I do not doubt, but God can not communicate intelligence to matter,
so I doubt it.

Respect the eternal power, and I do not limit your responsibility; not saying anything, and
I stick to believe that there are many more things possible than you think.

Sirius smiled the animal, and it seemed that this was not the less sane, and if there were no been
for the great disproportion, would have embraced the dwarf from Saturn to sectarian Locke. Unfortunately
the band was in a animalucho with a bonnet on her head, which cutting the wire to all philosophers,
he said that he knew the secret, which was in the Sum Santo Tomas, and he looked from head
to toe with the two inhabitants of heaven, they support their persons, their worlds, their
suns and stars, everything had been brought to man. Al hear such nonsense, our two travelers
had to fall over each other, killing of that inextinguishable laughter which, according to Homer, share
the lot of the Gods, came and went their stomach and back, and these comings and goings of the
ship fell off one of Sirius in the pants pocket of Saturnino. Buscaronle both long time after
the crew encountered, and got into the ship as best they could. Grabbed the Syrian to aradorcillos,
and speak with great kindness, because it was something mohino to see that some infinitely
small had an almost infinitely large vanity. Prometioles to compose a book of philosophy very
finely written letter for your use, and that the would see why of all things, and effect before
leaving gave them the promised book, which led to the Academy of
Sciences Paris.

Quand le Mas opened the secretary, it was found that was all white,
and said: ha, and I boasted to me.

       

End of story Micromegas.

* * * * *

HISTORY

A GOOD BRAMA.
In my journeys I found an old rut, sugeto very sane, educated, discreet,
and with this rich, which made him more sane, because, as he did not
lack anything, did not need to cheat anyone. Three women governed
their very beautiful family, whose husband was, and when not recreated
with their wives, were occupied in philosophy. He lived with his house
that was beautiful, well-jeweled and pleasant gardens, an old India,
blessed, silly, and very poor.

Díxome one day the rut: I never been
born. Ask why, and he replied: Quarenta years I am studying, and all
I have lost forty; taught to others, and do not know everything. 

Her hair fell in curls over the back perfumed, and his beard was menudísimos curls, artistic
and symmetrically arranged. Her dress and delicate fragrance him goodbye. Despite my severely, I could
not but admire the fineness of the King Nanar, and confessed, back in myself, that was the
most comm'il faut that I had tried in my life.

The King I stayed in his palace, I gave lavish parties, and I was distracted in such a way
that almost made me forget the object of my mission. We had a concert and a dance, and a dinner
style that gave Baltasar many years later. I did not dare to ask King what he had done in Parsondes.
I did not understand that a man so excellent, that he entertained and regaled guests with elegance
and courtesy that, had been killed or had in hard captivity of my
dear teacher.

Finally, one night I plucked up all my restraint and resolve, and told Nanar, on behalf the King
my master, who at the time was going to say where was the virtuoso Parsondes if not want to lose
the kingdom and life. Nanar, instead of answering, he brought the point to all cantatrice the
Bayadere and was in the palace: it is understood that off-campus, harem or whatever you call,
reserved for their wives. The Milita such priestesses moved from nine hundred, and were the
most beautiful and skillful that could hardly be found in all Asia. The girls came dancing,
singing and playing flute, finger cymbals and harps, it was a matter
of taste to see them and hear them.

I sat rapt. Nanar he said, and here was the more my amazement:

- Behold the holy Parsondes among these women. Parsondes, come here and greet your former student.

Went
out from the center of that crowd one female, were it not for the beard, had could be confused
with women. He wore black painted eyebrows, eyelids blue, in order to shine more eyes and cheeks
covered with lipstick. It was all perfumed her dress was almost as rich as the King, his effeminate
and languid gait, his ears hung exquisite earrings, from his throat a necklace of pearls encircled
her forehead a wreath of flowers.

It was the same Parsondes, who threw her arms around his neck.

- I am, I said, well other than he was before. Return, if you want to Susa, but do not say I live
it, that wizards do not be offended, and to continue taking a recent example of holiness to
appeal. Nanar avenged my rough and unkempt making me a prisoner under and sending me soaping
and scrubbing with a scouring pad. After washing my continued and perfuming twice a day, giving
me a hitch, and forcing me to be with all these bright young ladies, where I ended up forgetting
my Zoroaster and austere preaching, and convinced that in this life time we must have the
best possible without engaging in the lives of others. Care Agenos kill the donkey, and none more
so than who mixes in censoring the vices of others, if only it lacks
the opportunity to into them, or when, if they have not fallen, it
must be out of ignorance, bad taste and rustiqueza.

I put my hands on the ears to hear such blasphemy from the mouth of that wise admirable. I was desperate
and angry to see him become a bon vivant, with their points and collar of shameless rascal,
but to avoid scandalous gossip, I decided to advise the school of wizards to continue arguing
that Parsondes had risen to the empyrean, and to continue venerating
his image, without discovering never before flatly denying that he
lived with Parsondes the dancers of Babylon in the palace of Nanar.

In this awoke from my dream and I turned to find my poor house of this court.

- I think, added our friend to finish his story, with less wealth and less cost can the day Nanar
seduce upbraideth Parsondes that immorality and vices, moved, not
charity, but of envy.

Those who are not sure of the virtue and fortitude of mind must therefore
be more lenient with Nanar.

Woe to him who boasts virtue without one probadísima!

Blessed are those who practice it and shut up!

THE PREHISTORIC BERMEJINO

OR BLUE SALAMANDER

I

I've always been fond of science. When young, I had a thousand other hobbies, but now I am old,
the prevailing scientific hobby and triumphs in my soul.

Unfortunately or Fortunately it happens to me something very singular. I like science inversely
delas truths they are showing exactly. So I just am interested in sciences, and inaccurate I
love. Hence my penchant for philosophy.

It is the truth that appeals to me, but the effort of speech, of subtlety and imagination which is
used to discover the truth, but undetected. Once discovered truth, well proven and patent, usually
leave me cold. Thus, a gallant young man, when you go down the street in pursuit of a woman whose
walk gracefully and whose waist you excited, then come on, the look
at his face and sees that it is old, or one-eyed, or have nosed monkey.

The

man would also be a cabinet if he knew the truth, but truth to be pretty. It quiet in their possession
and enjoyment would be silly.

Better, then, we know little. What matters is knowing enough to appear or be discerned the mystery,
and never enough for an explanation or clarification. Thus curiosity is aroused, comes alive
fantasy and make up theories, dogmas and other witticisms, entertain and comfort us during our
earthly existence, all of which would lack, being a thousand times more unhappy pure rude if
we were not present the mystery, or if we managed to unravel a pure business his deep and true
meaning.

Among these inexact sciences, which so delight me, there is a very in vogue now, which is subject
my favorite. I speak of prehistory.

I, not knowing whether I am right, divided into two parts this science. One that I would call geological
prehistory, is based on the discovery of skulls, cops, arrows and
spears, stew and other gadgets, involving scholars who are of an age
very remote, called stone.

This prehistoric amuses me so, and has, I see far fewer sets you will hear that call philological
prehistory, based on the study of primitive language and documents written in them are preserved.
This is the prehistory makes me more grace.

What variety of opinions!

What acute guesswork! With what art are arranged and sorted facts to fit the system that shapes
every wise! And all civilization born in Egypt, and the Acadia in the center of Asia, and comes from
India, and a continent called Lemuria, which sank in the deep sea,
the South, between Africa and Asia, and from another continent, that
between Europe and America and was called Atlantis.

On the primitive language, as well as the primitive civilization, is still disputed. Up it was a dispute
over whether or were several languages: that is, whether the men began to spread around the
world Alal, or say, still speechless, and in flocks, and then were inventing different languages
​​in different places, or whether they spoke before the dispersion and all a single language.

My
itching to browse induce me to read how many new books come out on this subject which are
not few, and the more wrong-headed they are, things looks the multitude
of the timid, the more I enjoy these books.

In recent days the books I read are contrary to the Aryans, the Egyptians, of the Semites and other
nations and castes, that went by the civilizing degree superior.

If the old books have argued that civilization, such as sunlight, spread from East to West, these
new books claim that spread in the opposite direction from West to East. All knowledge of the
Magi from Iran and from Shinar, from the Brahmins the banks of the Ganges, the priests of Isis and
Osiris, of the initiated in Samothrace and the towns of Phoenicia and Phrygia, is worth nothing
compared to the knowledge of certain Gauls primitive light whose center was in a prehistoric
Paris.

The Gauls and their bards and druids, poets and priests taught him everything but his own, science
and reflection was not confusing and I remember full of science possessed,
in the center of fertile and beautiful country now called France,
before the coming of the Celts, men more primitive and excellent call
or protoscitas Hyperborean.

But what language they spoke these protoscitas or Hyperborean, the center and focus of civilization
was a Paris of the past six or seven thousand years at least? Spoke the language Euskara, Basque
populace. Where had they come? They had come from Atlantis, which sank. What knowledge did they have?
They had all the knowledge we have today and many more that have been darkened by of fables
and other trifles. Thus, the arimaspes, who had one eye and looked the sky, astronomers were
then, they already knew the telescope, and the arrow that Abaris was riding from one end to
another of the earth, was the balloon or a device to fly and compass
direction, etc.., etc., etc. It is understood that the time of the
arimaspes and the decadence Abaris are Hyperborean civilization.

I confess that I loved this whole system. It is not my purpose to expose here. Step flying on
it and go to my issue.

Say, however, which I loved for two reasons. This is the first how much I like France. How is natural
that the seeds of European civilization was born and flourished from old, in that fertile and
rich garden soil at the privileged, not in Mesopotamia or on the banks of the Nile? And the second
reason, that I have friends in Gipuzkoa, which shall rejoice much if it is proved that their
language and caste were instrumental that he used to kill Providence barbarism, illuminating the
world and indoctrinate other nations.

Much rejoice at this, if still alive, as I wish, my learned friend of mine and D. Joaquin Irizar
and Moya, who has written remarkable works on the Basque language, throwing trip the Erros, Larramendis
and Astarloas! Something he will use the brand-new inventions give more force to your system, arranged
so that fit and fit in with the most perfect Catholic orthodoxy.

Anyway, for me it is clear that before the Celts penetrated into Spain, the Phoenicians, the Greeks
and other nations, was in Spain a civilized people, we call the Iberians. These people spread across
our peninsula, and even had colonies in Sardinia, Italy and elsewhere, as William Humboldt has
shown.

Were Basque and spoke the language Euskara. The most cultured nation and state and illustrious
among them was the republic of turdetanos, who, according to the
testimony of Strabo, had laws and cute lyrics and poems in verse,
had six thousand years old.

However, the alphabets and Turdetano Celtiberian that reconstructed and publishes Don Luis José
Velázquez, are very modern compared to the date cited above.

These scripts are a reflection of the Phoenician or Greek, and it should be assumed therefore,
that before coming to Spain Greeks and Phoenicians, had turdetanos its own alphabet, which they
wrote their poems and other works.

In my view, Mr. D. Manuel de Gongora y Martinez has had the glory of discovering the alphabet. See
inscriptions Antiques Osiris in prehistoric Andalucía, de la Cueva of signs and other caves and
hiding places, some of which are near the site of Villabermeja, a
place that I've tried to make famous as its most conspicuous inhabitant
D. Juan Fresco.

Within walking distance there is a site Villabermeja that the Laderon last name, where every day discovered
remains and relics of an ancient and flourishing city.

The learned and sagacious antique D. Aureliano Fernandez War there was evidence Favència, time
of the Roman city that was called much earlier Vescio.

Don Juan Fresco, excited his curiosity and fueled his tireless activity, since the Mr. Gongora,
publishing in 1868 his Antiquities, put on the track, has been to seek Cave written signs and
other landmarks that are near Vescio, and has found and assembled in much copy.

Emulate Champollion Figeac, Anquetil Duperron, Burnouf, Grotefend, Oppert and Lassen, my referral
D. Friend Juan Fresco believes he has decoded these primitive scrawl
Iberian, such as those other wise, the hieroglyphs, cuneiform writing
and other recesses.

I'm not trying to advocate here by the discovery of my namesake and countryman and demonstrate
the obvious. This we will do it in your day. I will limit myself to relate a story that Don Juan
Fresco says he read some entries similar to the Cave of the signs.

Understood letters, it seems that the other is flat, because the language is almost primitive Iberian
Basque now.

I regret not give here the exact translation of the original text. Don Juan Fresco did not want
communicate it. I will, therefore, breaks the narrative with explanations
and comments interspersed that he has done.

Not otherwise be understood.

The story is relatively modern, for, as my friend, have yet to discover legends and stories in
Proto-Iberian, oldest and most venerable Egyptian poem Pentaur about a feat or Rans Sesostris II,
and that the poems found by our known Mr. Layard diplomat in the library of Ashurbanipal in
Nineveh archaic poems and eight centuries BC, and translated most of the sacred language of
the Akkadians, then so dead like Latin with us now.

And this should not wonder, because according Roisel at The Atlantis, all culture comes from these,
before been in Chaldea, Assyria, in Egypt or at any point of the East.

It is unfortunate that we still have no documents of the Golden Age or Golden Age of Atlantic Parisian
literature of place some eight thousand years, or the emanation of that bética culture, implemented
by the banks of the Guadalquivir turdetanos.

The document found, deciphered, explained and commented by Don Juan Fresco is relatively time
fresh, as it were of yesterday morning.

Iberian and indigenous culture had declined and Spain were full of even Phoenician and Greek
colonies. Those had already founded Zazinto Sagunto, and for over
a century they founded the Tyre to Malaga, Abdera, Hispalis and Gades.
It was for the years 1000, BC vulgar, on more or less.

II

Vescio
was an important city of the Confederation of Turduli. At the time
we mean, the vescianos already had the same quality as the day their
descendants have been dictation bermejinos valid: almost all were
blond and some candles. Stood out among all as fair as well as handsome
and dashing, elegant and noble young man Mutileder. Sling shot and
killed extraordinary ability to planes passing stones flying, riding
on horseback, drove a car like few war, he knew by heart best verses
composed turdetanos and also very regular, with a club in the powerful
was a tremendous right hand man, with women was sweeter than a arropía
and more without gall a dove, ran like a deer, fighting tooth and
nail as bears, and had another crowd of clothes that were recommended.
You can almost ensure that his only fault was being poor.

Mutileder,
lost his father and mother, had no urban land and rustic, lived as
love staying with his uncles, and Vescio did not know what used to
make a living. Was a man, as they say, without a job or benefit.

And
was bordering on twenty-four, and tired of this life, and longing
to see the world, called blessing to his uncles, who were accompanied
by some the money, and also taking weapons and horse, Vescio left
to seek adventure and how to improve the condition.

As Mutileder
presence was so beautiful, and it was also nice and happy, everywhere
was very pleasing. 

Some algebraist, caste people are very useful to the public, to take this step in my story
pen, and calculated that taking the Lord Don Micromegas, Sirius country dweller, from soles
to occiput twenty-four thousand feet, making one hundred and twenty thousand feet King, and we
citizens of the land going through the community of five feet, and taking our globe nine thousand
miles in circumference, it is absolutely essential that the planet where our national hero has
fully twenty-one million six hundred thousand times circumference of our earth. Well, nothing
is more common and more natural, and states certain princelings of Germany or Italy, which
may beating in half an hour, compared with Turkey, Russia, or Spanish America, is an image, still
very distant from Indeed, the differences that nature has established among men.

It is the height of His Excellency that we said, where all our painters colegiran and sculptors, whose
body might be about fifty thousand feet in circumference king because is very well proportioned.
His understanding of the most insightful is that you can see he knows a multitude of things,
and some have invented: only bordered with the two hundred and fifty years, while a student
at the Jesuit college of your planet, as there style is common, I guess by the force of his
intelligence over fifty propositions of Euclid, which are eighteen but did Blaise Pascal, the
qual having guessed, according to her sister, thirty and two playing, became, walking the years,
fed medium geometry, and malisimo metaphysical. Age of four hundred and fifty years, but not
to get out of childhood, dissects a very small insects that did not reach a hundred feet in diameter,
and the microscopes were hiding regular, and wrote a book about them very funny, but that he brought
not a few surprises. The mufti of his country, not less ticklish than ignorant, found in his book
proposals suspicious, ill-sounding, rash, heretical, or smelling of heresy, and he chased the
death, then tried to see if the substantial form of fleas from Sirius was of the same nature
that of the snails. Micromegas Defendiose salty, declared the women in their favor, because after two
hundred and twenty years which had lasted the lawsuit, did Mufti condemn the book for qualifiers
that he had not read nor could read, and was banished court time the author for eight years.

Not
much afflicted him out of a court full of intrigue and gossip. He composed a few tenths very funny
against the mufti, that this does not give a damn, and devoted himself
to travel planet to planet, only to perfect his reason and his heart,
as they say.

Those who are used to walking in car cufflinks, or chaise was amazed at the carriages up there,
because we, in our ball of mud, do not understand other styles than ours. Fully knew the laws
of gravitation and the forces attractive and repulsive our walker, and he used them so well
that now mounted in a sunbeam, now riding a kite, balloon balloon went he and his servants,
as well as a paxarillo flits from branch to branch. Soon there run the Milky Way; and I regret
to confess that never could descry, among the stars that is planted, that beautiful sky empyrean,
who with his spyglass discovered the illustrious Derham, curate [Footnote: English Wise, author of
Theology astronomical, and other works, who strives to prove the existence of God by the contemplation
of the wonders of nature.]. I do not say why that has not been very well Mr Derham, God forbid
size of committing mistake, but after Micromegas was in the country, and was a good observer: I do
not want to contradict anyone.

After many journeys came a day Micromegas the globe of Saturn, and although he was used to see
new things, yet we stop confusing the smallness of this planet and its inhabitants, and could
not release the smile of superiority that can not contain more sane sometimes. Truth is that
Saturn is nine hundred times larger than the earth, and the inhabitants
the country are dwarfs of about two thousand yards, with a short difference
in height.

Riose to top of them with their servants, as does an Italian musician Lulli's music, when it comes
to France, but Sirius was the man of reason, and quickly recognized that one could very well
be that thought to have nothing of ridiculous, since there from six thousand feet height. Acostumbrose
to Saturninus, after having been shocked, and became a close friend of the secretary of the Academy
of Saturn, a man of great talent, which in truth nothing was invented, but very nicely gave account
of the inventions of others, and to regularly couplets girls and big load. I'll post here,
to the satisfaction of my readers, a conversation very surprised that the secretary had one day
Mr. Micromegas.

CHAPTER II.

Sirius Talk to the inhabitants of Saturn.

HE went to bed, went up to his face to the secretary, and said Micromegas:
We confess that is very diverse nature.

Truth is, he said the Saturnino; is nature as a garden, whose flowers
.... Ha, he said the other, DEXA gardening.

As it is, followed the Secretary, as a reunion of blonde and brunette, whose adornments .....
What do I care about your brunette? interrupted the other. Or as a gallery of squares, whose
images ...... No, Sir, no, replied the traveler, nature is as nature. ? A what the hell you walk
looking for those comparisons? For to rejoice, 'said the secretary. If I do not want to recreate
me, what I want you to teach, "said the traveler. Tell me what senses are first quantos men
of your globe. Nothing more than seventy-two, he said the academic and everyday We complain about
such a shortage, that our imagination is dexa back our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two
senses, our annulled, and our five moons do not have enough, and it is true that despite our
great curiosity and passion that of our seventy-two senses are daughters, we have plenty of time
to get bored. Well what I think, he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a thousand
ways, and we still are not that vague desires, not that concern, which constantly tells us that
we are girl thing, and that other beings much more perfect. I made a few voyages, and have seen
other very inferior to us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have seen no with
no more desires than real needs, and more needs satisfaction. Perhaps a day will END a country
where nothing is needed, but I have not been told of this country. Then threw themselves to
form conjectures on Saturnino and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning uncertain,
was forced to re-establish facts. ? Quanto long live? he said the Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied
the man from Saturn. The same is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining
about the shortness of life. Must is that it is universal pension of nature. Alas! our lives,
'said the Saturnino is five hundred revolutions of the sun movie (coming to be fifteen thousand
years, or near, counting as us.) You see that it is almost die so that one is born: it is
our existence one point, a moment our lives, our globe an atom, and each instruction is just
beginning something, when death snatches before experience. As for me I dare not any draft form,
and I am like a drop of water in the vast ocean, and what more sonroxo cause me in your presence,
quan look ridiculous in this figure do world. Micromegas answered her: If you were not a philosopher,
would have, the apprehension of desconsolaros, telling that is our life seven hundred times more
extensive than yours, but you well know that when has been to restore the body to the elements,
and revive differently Baxo nature that is what you call die, Quando is reached, say, this
moment of metamorphosis, it matters little have lived forever or one day alone, two is the
same. I have been in countries where people live a thousand times more than mine, and I saw
that still complained, but are everywhere sugetos of reason, who can resign, and give thanks to the
author of nature, which with a wonderful kind of uniformity has spread in the universe varieties
with an endless profusion. So par example, all people who think they are different, and they
all look in the gift of thinking and desire. Everywhere is the matter extensive, but each has different
properties globe. ? Qantas of these properties have your area? If you speak of the properties
without the quale we could not survive our globe as he is, he said the Saturnino, do not exceed
three hundred, to wit the extension, impenetrability, mobililad, gravity, divisibility, etc..
Without doubt, replied the walker, which is sufficient for such a short number of breeder plan your
intimate room, and in all things I love his wisdom, because if all I see differences, also
provides in all proportions. Your globe is small, and so are its inhabitants, you have few
feelings, and your subject has a few properties: this is the disposal of Providence. ? Color
is your sun well tested? Very ashen white, 'said the Saturnino, and when we divide one of its
rays, we find that has seven colors. The strip our flesh, he said the Syrian, and we thirty-nine primary
colors. In all quanta have examined, I have not found a sun that looks like another, and not
on your planet is a face that no differs from all others.

After many queestiones analog, was reported to be different substances quantas Saturn knew,
and was answered that he had until about thirty, God, space, matter, people who feel large, extensive
beings who feel and think, people they think and are not widespread, which penetrate, and not
penetrate, and so on. The Sirius world in which there are three hundred, and that he had discovered
in his travels up to three thousand, I leave necessarily extraordinary philosopher stunned
to Saturn. Finally, having communicated a quanto another almost all knew and did not know many
things, and having discoursed for space of an entire solar revolution,
were determined to make a short journey together philosophical.

CHAPTER III.

Journey of two people from Sirius and Saturn

They were to board our two walkers in the atmosphere of Saturn with a very decent provision of
mathematical instruments, when the lady of Saturninus, who knew,
it came to make bitter complaints.

This was a very graceful brunette, who had no more than fifteen hundred
feet high, but repaired with the boy through his body. iha cruel!
exclaimed, I've resisted after fifteen hundred years, when I had just
given up, having no above last hundred years in your arms, go ime
abandoned by traveling with a giant another world!

Come on, you're not more than a curious, and have never been in love,
that if you were Saturnino legitimate, most constant serious.

Where are you going? ? You want? less wandering is that you our five moons, and less changeable
our annulled. This is just, I want anymore. Philosopher embraced her, weeping with her, as philosopher,
and the lady, after having fainted, went to console with a dude.

They cut our two curious and jumped first to nullify they found very flattened as you guessed a
famous inhabitant of our globule, and from there they went to moon in moon. A comet passing
close to the last, and threw him with his servants and instruments. Just had walked a hundred
and fifty million miles, they encountered satellites Jupiter. Alighted on this planet, where
they stopped a year, and learned very secret curious, which would have given to the press, had
it not been for the inquisitors propositions have found something hard to swallow, but I managed to
read the manuscript the library of the Most Illustrious Archbishop
of ... allowed me to register their books, with all the generosity
and kindness that characterize such an illustrious prelate.

Let us return however to our walkers. Leaving Jupiter, passed through a space of about a hundred million
miles, and cost the planet Mars, the qual, as everyone knows, is five times smaller than our
globule, and they saw two moons that serve this planet, and have not our astronomers have discovered.
While the abbot was written in much Donayre Ximenez against the existence of these moons, but
I appeal to those run by analogy, all great philosophers who know very well that it will be
possible to live without two moons Mars at least, being so far from the sun. Anyway, they
seemed to our travelers thing girl, who feared not finding a comfortable
inn, and went forward as do two Quando walkers encounter poor sales
in the wilderness, and continue to the next village.

But then he repented the Syrian and his partner, who walked a long period without finding hostel.
After a little light descry, which was the land, which seemed very mean thing to people who had
come from Jupiter. However, rezelando repent again, were determined to land on it. They went
into the comet's tail, and finding an aurora borealis by hand, went inside and brought ashore
to the north shore of the Baltic Sea, five of July 1737.

CHAPTER IV.

That accounts of what happened on the globe of the earth.

Having rested a bit, had lunch two mountains that are then cooked his servants with much toilet.
Wanted to recognize the wretched country then where they were, and headed north to south. Each step
ordinary Sirius and his family was about thirty thousand feet of the king, followed him by far
the dwarf of Saturn, who lost his breath, because I had to take twelve steps while the other
leg stretched out, almost like a lapdog that is, if you will excuse
the comparison, a captain of the guards of the king of Prussia.

As they went in a hurry these foreigners, were seen around the globe in thirty-six hours: truth
is that the sun, or rather the earth, makes the same journey in one day, but we to repair something
that is easier to turn on its exe to anchor foot.
 

Confused and desperate Memnon was returned to his home, where he found a note inviting me to
intimate dinner with some friends. If I stay home alone, he said, will have concerns with the
mood my sad adventures, eating, and falling evil, but it make a frugal meal with my friends
intimate, and with his pleasant company to forget the nonsense that this morning I made. Was
to treat, and seeing that I was a bit sad, he was forced to drank to dispel his melancholy. The wine
used in moderation is medicine for the encouragement and for the body, so I thought the wise
Memnon, and got drunk. Proponenle desktop play a hand: a game where you go through recently,
is an innocent diversion. Play and win him quanto had in his pocket, and four times more about
his word. Give rise to a dispute about the game, the spirits irritans, throws one of his intimate
friends a cup head you take out an eye, and bring home the wise Memnon drunk, penniless, and
with an eye less.

Having slept a little wolf, sent his servant to house the treasurer general of income Nineveh,
to give him money to pay his close friends, and the servant brings new that that morning had
made a bad faith bankruptcy debtor, with the qual dexaba by doors a hundred families. Memnon be
spiteful palace with a eye patch and a memorial in hand, asking for justice to the king of the
bankrupt, and is in a room with many ladies, all backwards like tops with elegant tontillos
twenty feet in circumference, and gowns thirty tail. One that he knew something, he said the
sideways facing you: iJesus, how awful! Y another that he knew more: Good afternoon, sir Memnon,
really, I'm glad Mr. Memnon much to see you:? like that you are one-eyed, Mr. Memnon? and said
this, he left without waiting for response. Agazapose Memnon in a corner, waiting to be able
to throw at the feet of the monarch. His Majesty arrived, Memnon kiss the ground three times,
and gave his memorial, which took the sovereign with great kindness, and handed him one of
his lieutenants, to give her account. Call The satrap of Memnon aside, and says in a tone of mockery
and gesture of insult: Donoso eyed you are, because you dare to give the king a memorial that
has not passed through my hands, and you commit to it the bombing of a failed demand justice honored
that this Baxo my fortress, and nephew a maid service to my dear. Do not give more step in the
matter, at your peril good eye you have left.

Thus, having given up in the morning Memnon of girls, of feasting, games, of contention, and
most of the palace before nightfall had been deceived and cheated
by a herniosa lady, had drunk, he had played, he had an eye removed,
and had been to the palace where he had laughed at him.

Confused, lost, and surrendered to the weight of his sorrow he was returning home half dead,
and going to enter, he found it full of sheriffs and clerks who carried the furniture behalf
of its creditors. Paros almost meaningless vnder a banana, and meets the lovely lady that morning,
which was still walking around with her beloved uncle, and could not be have to laugh at the sight
of Memnon with his patch. Night fell, and lay down on a heap Memnon straw, near the walls
of his house Entrol fever, is lethargic with the strength of her and appeared in a dream a heavenly
spirit, And he shone like the sun, and had six beautiful wings but no feet, no head or tail,
and not like any thing. Who are you? Memnon said to him. Your good genius, he replied. For me
again, "said Memnon, my eye, my health, my wealth, my sanity, and once told him that he had lost
everything so that day. Adventures are these, "replied the spirit, that never happen in the world
where we live. ? In what world you live? told him the suffering. My country, 'said the genius,
is far Five hundred million miles from the Sun, and is one star next to Sirius, you are looking
at from here. Ilinden country! Memnon, he said. ? With rogues you have not betraying the men well,
not close friends that they cheat their money and take out an eye, or debtors who fail, or
satraps that you laugh at you Quando justice denied? No, I said to the inhabitants of the star,
none of that: we do not deceive the women, because there are none, do not over- gluttony, because
we do not eat, or there are debtors who fail, because we have no silver or gold; We can not
tear your eyes, because it seems our body to yours, and the satraps
commit injustices, because we are all equal.

Memnon then said to him: Lord illustrious, "without girls without eating, when you pass the time? In
care, he said the genius, the other balloons that are at our expense, and I am here to console.
Alas! Memnon replied,? because you came last night, and You might have hindered me to such nonsense?
Because I was in Asan, your older brother, told him the inhabitant of heavens, the qual is more
unfortunate than you, having your gracious majesty the king of the Indies where you can admire
the honor of being employed, mandadole out both eyes by a slight fault, and holding him in
a dungeon, tied hand and foot. Pardi, Memnon exclaimed that we are thrives on having a good
genius in our family, two brothers if one is blind, and one eyed, one lying on straw, and another
in jail. Your luck is moved, replied the animal star: truth is that you will be one-eyed life,
but as it is not, you will live pretty happy, provided they never make the misguided purpose
of being completely sane. ? With that this is something that is not possible to achieve? Memnon replied
pulling a sob. As it is not possible, "replied the other, be fully intelligent, fully-strong,
fully powerful, or completely happy. We ourselves are very distant to be so, a balloon is to
the truth where all this is, but everything goes by degrees in a hundred billion seeded worlds
in space. In the second there is less pleasure and less wisdom in the first, in the third less
than in the second, and so continues till the last, where all the world is completely crazy.
I am afraid, he said Memnon, that our globe is just the house of lunatics in the universe, you're
saying. Not so much as that, he said the spirit, but he is nearby, and that everything must take
its appointed place. In this case, he said Memnon, very some poets are misguided, and some philosophers,
who say everything is fine. Have reason, 'said the philosopher of this world, if they see the
placement of the entire universe. iha! replied Memnon poor, I do
not believe as it may one eye.

       

End of Memnon.

* * * * *

THE two consoles.

Said one day the great philosopher cytophylic a distraught lady, and had every reason to be: the
Lady, the Queen of England, daughter of the great Henry quarto, was no less unfortunate than you:
the cast of his kingdom, he was on the verge of dying in the ocean in a shipwreck, and King
witnessed the death of her husband on a scaffold. Much sorry, 'said the lady, and returned
to mourn their own misfortunes.

Remember, he said Cilofilo, Mary Stuart, who was honestly in love
with a handsome musician I had excellent voice of choristers.

Her husband killed the musician, and then his good friend and relative, the Queen Elizabeth, who
was called maiden, sent him to cut his head in a hanging scaffold
Mourning, after having been eighteen years in prison. iCruel success!
replied the lady; and give back to your affliction.

Mentar well have heard, followed the dildo, the lovely Joanna of Naples, which was seized and hanged.
I have a confused idea that, 'said the afflicted.

I will tell you, "said the other, the adventure that happened in my time in a sovereign dethroned
after dinner, and who died on a desert island. All that history is, "replied the lady.

Well tell you what happened to another great princess, my disciple of philosophy. She had her lover
as he is absolutely beautiful and great princess one day his father entered his room, and grabbed
the lover on her face and eyes that shone like two carbuncles, and
Princess also very red face.

Dislike both father of the boy's face, he shook the most massive blow to the day that has stuck
throughout the province. Grabbed the lover pliers, and broke the head of the lady's father, who was
a long time to death, and still has the sign of the injury: the Princess was careless shot through
the window, and spoiling a leg, so that even today it is known that Coxe, although it has beautiful
body. Her lover was sentenced to death for having broken his head
at such a high prince.

Now you can think in that state would be the princess, when taken out to hang with her lover, I was going
to do with frequeencia, when she was in jail, and I always talked about his misfortunes.

? Because they are unhappy that it hurts me of mine? the lady said to him. Because it is not successful
grieve for their misfortunes, and that having been so unfortunate
as many leading ladies, does not seem right that I despair.

Hecuba Behold, behold a Niobe.

Ha, 'said the lady, if I had lived at the time, or so many beautiful
princesses, and their comfort You might have told them my misfortunes?
would have you heard anything?

        

The next day the philosopher lost his only son, and came close to
that feeling die.

Mrs. command to list all the monarchs who had lost their children,
and took her to the philosopher, the qual read it, found them very
timely, and continued crying.

After Three months turned to see, and was astonished to be very happy.

Then lifted a beautiful statue of the time with this label:

THE COMFORTER.

End of the two consoles.

* * * * *

HISTORY

OF VIAG

Of castigating,

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

In the city of Candia I came to the world the year 1600. My father was the governor, and I remember
a poet less than average, if only mildly unkempt style, called Azarria,
made some bad verses in praise of mine, where I described as a descendant
quale Minos in a straight line, but then removed the government having
my father wrote further in I was the grandson of Pasiphae and her
lover.

Mal sugeto this was indeed the Azarria, and most annoying villain in the entire island had.

Fifteen
years had Quando my father sent me to study in Rome, and hoping I get to learn all the truths,
because until then I had been taught the opposite of truth, as is
use in this world, from China to the Alps.

Profondo Monsinor, who was recommended sugeto was rare, and one of the most terrible wise in the
world had. Quisome training in the categories of Aristotle, and almost puts me in their Gitonas:
good me free. Vi processions, exorcisms, and quite a few robberies. They said, though against
all indeed, that the Siniora Olympia, very prudent lady, was selling some things that are
not usually sold. My age it all seemed very funny. It occurred to a maiden lady, and very mild
condition, Siniora called Fatel, fall in love with me: the reverend
father obsequiabanla Punalini and Aconiti the reverend father, a religious
congregation no longer exists, and put according to both of giving
me her favors, but I was in danger of being poisoned and excommunicated.

Rome Dexe very pleased with the architecture of San Pedro.

Trip to France, where the seasoning Luis Reyna to the right, and the first thing I asked was for
my lunch if I wanted a piece of Marshal d'Ancre, who had roast people, and they sold it very
cheap to those who wanted to buy their meat to give away.

Was this a continuous state of civil war drama, sometimes for a place in the council, and other two
pages of theological disputes. More than sixty years to which they were these beautiful weather stricken
by this volcano which sometimes dimmed, and other was burning with
violence, and that was the liberties of the Gallican church.

Alas! dixe, this town is of natural quiet:? who has brought so of its kind? Chufletas says and
does degueello San Bartolome. iVenturoso time that you do not make more to say Donayre!

Go to England, where the same strife occasioned the same horrors. Some saints Catholics, for
the sake of the church, had given the king to fly with gunpowder, family real, and the entire
parliament, and rid England of both heretic. Taught me the site where had made to burn more
than five hundred of his subjects the blessed queen Maria, daughter Henrique eighth, and I assure
Hiberno cleric was much merit action towards God first because the burned were all English, and
secondly because I never took holy water, and believed in the cave of San Patricio, astounded
that they had not yet canonized to the Queen Mary, though he hoped that it would take to put
on the altars, so I had a little place Cardinal Nepos.

We went to Holland, where he hoped to find more peace, and a more phlegmatic people. Quando arrives
The Hague, were cutting the head off a venerable old man, and was the first bald head Barnevelt
minister. Moved with compassion, wonder what his crime was, and if he had been traitor the
state. Much worse than that, I answered a preacher of black cloak that is man believes it can attain
salvation by good works as well as by faith and well see if be credited such opinions, the republic
could not survive, so it is necessary stringent laws to curb such horrific scandals. Then sighing
a politician díxome deep: IHA, sir! This good weather will not last forever, this town is being
so jealous by mere chance: his true character is inclined to abominable
dogma of tolerance, and day will embrace, something that thrills me.

I however, until they reached the fatal time of forbearance and moderation, all haste dexe a
country where no happy tempered their severity, and I embarked for Spain.

Was the court in Seville, had reached the galleons, and the most beautiful season of the year
all breathed abundance and joy. After a street in orange and lemon trees, I saw an arena huge
covered terraces surrounded by beautiful texidos. Baxo a magnificent canopy were the king, queen,
infants and the princesses. In front of the August family still had a throne higher. Dixe, return
to one of my co-journey: As this seat is not reserved for God, for
those who can not be.

Heard a Spanish major these reckless words and I left side. I figured we were going to see
a tournament or a bullfight, when I went up the Grand Inquisitor to the throne, and from the blessed
the king and the people.

Then came an army of friars in rows of two by two, white, black, brown, shoes, barefoot, bearded,
beardless, with pointed hood, and no chapel was then the executioner; and behind, in the midst
of sheriffs and dukes, about forty people covered with sacks where had painted flames and devils.
Were these, or Jews who had insisted on not deny Moses, or Christians who had married with their Wives,
or had not been devoted Nuestra Senora de Atocha, or had not wanted to give money to the Capuchin
Fathers. Cantaronse a most devout prayers, and then were burned alive over a slow fire, all prisoners,
with qual it built the family remained very real.

That night, when I was going to get into bed, came two relatives of the Inquisition accompanied
by a round well-armed; dieronme a loving hug, and took me, without speaking word, a very cool
dungeon where he had a mat to lie down, and a superb crucifix. Here I was six weeks past the quale
sent me to ask please sir Inquisitor saw me with him. Estrechome in his arms with paternal
affection, and told me that I felt very sincerely that was so ill housed, but they were busy
all the quartos of that holy house, and hoped to give me more room again. Ask me later with no
less love, if he knew it was there.

Replied the holy man, no doubt for my sins. That is, my son:? But that sin? Speak without rezelo.
For more than kill me, could not manage, until the charity of the pious inquisitor gave me some
light. I remembered the end of my reckless words, and I was not convicted of more than Exercises,
discipline, and thirty thousand pieces of fine. They carried on to thank the Grand Inquisitor, sugeto
very friendly, I wonder what I had thought that her party.

Deliciosisima Rospondile was, and I went for my haste saliesemos companions to the country,
since it is so enjoyable. These had taken place to informed of all the great deeds delivered
again by the Spaniards for the sake of religion, and read the memories of the famous bishop
of Chiapas, where it has beheaded, burned or drowned idolatrous ten million Americans to convert
them to our holy faith. Well I think it weighs something the bishop, but rebaxe although half
of the victims, is still proved a prodigious zeal.

Atormentabame burning constantly traveling, and was determined to end my pilgrimage to Europe
for Turkey. Encamineme to this, with a firm purpose of not saying my mind again about the parties
he had seen. These Turks, dixe my companions, they're pagans have not received the holy baptism,
and certainly should be more cruel than the holy inquisitors callemonos then, while living among
Moros.

This would encourage, but was astonished to see many more temples in Turkey Christians on the island
where he was born, and even grown congregations friars, who dexaban in peace to pray to the Virgin
Mary, and Muhammad curse, some in Greek, some in Latin, and other in Armenian. iQue honest
people are the Turks! I exclaimed. The Greek and Latin Christians irreconcilable enemies in Constantinople,
and these slaves are chasing each other like dogs that bite in the street, and that separate suits their
masters. Then the grand vizier protected the Greeks: the Greek Patriarch, who had accused me
of dinner with the Latin patriarch, and was convicted of the divan a hundred sticks on the
soles of the feet, to rescue price five hundred sequins.

Hanged the next day the Grand Vizier, and the third his successor, which was not hung up there
a month, I condemn the same fine for having dinner with the patriarch Greek so that I saw in
the sad precision frequeentar not the Greek church or America. For comfort rented a beautiful
Circassian, who was the most affectionate person alone with a man, and the most devout at the
mosque. One night, the soft taste of love exclaimed giving me a hug: Allah, Ilah, Allah, are
the sacramental words of the Turks; I thought you were the love,
And I said with much love: Allah, Ilah, Allah.

Ha, he said the delay, Merciful God be praised, and you are Turkish. I replied that he thanked
the Lord that had given me strength to be, and I thought it was very happy. Morning came to get
circumcised the magnet, and I have difficulty putting, I proposed the cadi of the neighborhood,
a man of good composition, I would send impaled. Free at last my foreskin and my back for a
thousand sequins, and I escape running Persia, resolved not to hear Mass in Turkey Greek or Latin,
and if ever Allah, Ilah, Allah in the moments from the likes of love.

So get to Ispahan, I asked if it was the party of black sheep or ram white. Replied that the same
one that gave me another, which makes it tender. It must be noted that Persia was still divided
into two factions, the ram's black and white. I believe that by mocking both parties, and
I found myself in a terrible commitment to gate of the city, of whom I left paying a lot of sequins,
not having to do with sheep.

Do not stop to China, which comes with an interpreter, he said that I was the country where
could live happy and free: the Tatars had invaded it they placed all blood and fire, while the reverend
Jesuit Fathers on the one hand, and the reverend fathers Dominicans second, they said winning souls
for heaven, without anybody noticing. Have never been more zealous converters, are chasing
each other with the most fervent ardor, wrote Rome whole volumes of libel, and tried by a faithless
infidels and soul.

There was an awful row between them about how to do the courtesy, the Jesuits The Chinese wanted
to greet their parents to the fashion of China, and Dominicans it was the fashion of Rome. Sucediome
the Jesuits thought I was a Dominican, and they told him that His Majesty was Tartara spy of the Pope.
Commission gave the supreme council a first mandarin to arrest me, the qual command a sheriff,
who had at his command four brackets, which seized me, and I bound with all ceremony. Conduxeronme,
after hundred and forty prostrations, before His Majesty, I wonder if I was a spy of the Pope
and if it was true that the prince had to come in person to dethrone him. I replied that Pope
was a clergyman of more than seventy years, that his statements were far more than four thousand
miles those of his Sacred Majesty Tartaro-China, that his army was two thousand soldiers standing
guard with a para-waters not anyone dethroned, and I could sleep without His Majesty fear.
This was the least fatal adventure of my life, as did more than send me to Macao, where I embarked
for Europe.

It was necessary to caulk the ship off the coast of Golconda, and I take advantage of the opportunity
to see the court of the Aurengzeb, of whom there were then a thousand wonders. It was this monarch
in Delhi, and enjoy the taste imponderable façade to façade behold the day of the pompous ceremony
that received the heavenly gift that he sent the sheriff of Mecca, and was the broom which had swept
the holy house, the Kaaba, the Belho-Allah: broom is a symbol that alimpia all the filth of the soul.
It appears that did not need Aurengzeb, who was the male more Hindustan religious whole, since it
had beheaded one of his brothers, and given poison his father, and had destroyed a scaffold twenty Omra
rajas and many others, but That did not mean anything, and nobody talked about anything but
his devotion to whom is the of no other comparable, as it was not that of the sacred majesty
of the Most Serene Emperor Morocco, Mulcy Ishmael, qual a quantas
heads cut every Friday, after to prayer.

No article I word that I had chastened the voyages, and knew it was not competent judge to
adjudicate between these two August sovereign. I confess, however, that a French boy, who
locked, lacking the respect due to the emperors of India and Marruceos, saying with great imprudence
in Europe had very principles governing sovereign rightly his states,
and also frequeentaban churches, without taking life so their parents
and siblings or cut the head of his vassals. Our language interpreter
realized expressions india impias of this boy. I trained with him
on other occasions I had happened, send saddle camels, and went with
the French. Later I learned that night had come and fetch him great
Aurengzeb officials, and not having found more than the interpreter,
was this executed in the main square, without flattery confessed all
that was very fair palace his death.

Quedabame to see the Africa
to enjoy all the delights of our hemisphere, and saw effect. Black
corsairs seized my vessel. My boss complaining bitterly, and ask them
for violating the laws of nations. He was answered by Captain black:
Your nose is long, and our flat, your hair is smooth, and our wool
curl, your skin is ashen-gray color and our Ebony, therefore under
the sacrosanct laws of nature, we must always be enemies. "Rather die than be different," she said. "Before
die to be of another, "he said. And this promise was made repeatedly and solemnized and corroborated
with the most terrible oaths.

After this, what remedy was married but as soon as the first boyfriend? This was resolved the
father, and began to make preparations for the wedding, which was
verified in autumn.

It was already late spring, and in those ancient ages likewise happening now which in the spring following
the summer.

Aratispi was the most beautiful place this is Alora. Around there, as there are still fertile, gardens
and lush evergreen forests of orange and lemon, but the hills that
limited amenísimo the valley, rather than being peeled, as now, were
covered with oaks, cork, carob, chestnut and other trees, whose trunks
and whose shade grew heather, ferns, thyme, marjoram, Mastranzo and
other fragrant plants and herbs.

Such was then the generosity of that land, which dwarf palms, now usually covered and more than
just serve to make brooms and esportilla, rose to great heights,
while the steep ridges of the mountains, bald now, were covered with
tiara green firs, pines and cypresses.

Nevertheless, it must be confessed that in summer it got so hot in all Aratispi demons.

Echeloría wanted, rightly, take some sea bathing, and her father was
a busy port nice, near Malaga, D. Juan Fresco and I estimate that
it must have been Churriana.

Naturally Churriana Mutileder was also accompanying her future.

The cousins ​​were like two lovebirds, always cooing. The more I looked him Echeloría, most
beautiful and angelic and more mellifluous was was put to her. And the more I looked Mutileder Echeloría
to a greater number of perfection and excellence was in it.

Well, to say nothing, because it would be never ending story, the
mutual admiration that arose both souls when considering the talent
or the ability of the object of his love.

Each stone Mutileder pulling killed a bird and broke the heart of Echeloría, by dint of enthusiasm.
And Echeloría, meanwhile, more than charm Mutileder knew the songs sing, had made a serious pita,
so full of subtle and exquisite work, he was spellbound for hours contemplating the deep.

The two lovers enjoyed complete freedom and went alone to walk through those byways and byways,
and along the resounding sea, and by oaks and olive groves wearing those hillsides, and by
the Verjel, groves and groves of the valley, watered by a Crystal
Creek.

But both were so as God commands, that despite how much they wanted, not molested never anything
but a warmly shaking hands and once or twice at most, to consent
to her receiving a chaste kiss on the smooth and candid front, and
achieve the pattern.

The highest virtue and delicacy of these cousins ​​put everything
on hold for the day fortunate in that religion and the laws contained
in their indissoluble unity.

Meanwhile they said two hundred thousand tenderness every time. "Your name is a label I put on my heart,
"exclaimed Echeloría. "My heart is yours forever leave before beating that love you alone,
"answered Mutileder.

These sessions are the hours passed, and continued two lovers were together less when Echeloría
retired to sleep next to his old nurse and stay very sheltered or when going to the beach for
bathing, for then, in order to avoid what people say and gossip, Mutileder not bathe her, perhaps
not used even swimwear, so complicated and conceal the ways in which they are now in Biarritz
and elsewhere.

III

Phoenician city of Malaga was a lot of trade. Almost racing Cadiz.
The port was full Tyrian ship, Pelasgian, Greek and Etruscan. In its
stores were sold thousand beauties brought from distant countries:
wool fabrics, dyed purple in Tyre, gold jewelry, made in Memphis in
Sais and other Egyptian cities, gemstones and Hindustan cotton fabrics;
Persian carpets, silk and even the most ignored country of Seras.

Echeloría
went to Manchester several times with her father and her boyfriend,
to visit those stores and buy clothes to the wedding day sighed.

Hallab
then in Malaga one of the boldest and marine scientists had then the
world: the famous Adherbal. 

First Treaty Lazarus has his life, and whose son was

For VM to know all things I called Lazaro de Tormes, the son of Tome Gonzales and Antona Perez,
Tejares natural, village of Salamanca. She and a dark man of those that animals cured, came to
the attention. Sometimes he would come to our house and went in the morning, sometimes he would
come to the door, pretending to buy eggs, and would come inside. I at the beginning of their
entry, pesábame with him and he scared me color and gesture that was bad, but when I saw that with
the food got better, wanting Fuila well, because he always brought bread and pieces of flesh, and
in the winter firewood so we could keep warm. So, continuing with the inn and talk, my mother
gave me a little black nice, which I jumped and help keep it warm. And remember one time when my
black father chessman with the little fellow, like the child that my mother and I were white,
and not him, fleeing the afraid for my mother, and pointing say,
"Mother, coconut!".

He answered laughing: "whoreson!"

I, however well a young boy, noted that word of my brother, and said to myself:

"There must be many in the world fleeing from others when they do not see themselves!"

As luck would have the conversation of Zaide, that was his name, reached the ears of Butler, and
done research, he found himself half through the barley, which for animals gave him, stealing,
and saved, firewood, curry, aprons, and blankets and bedding for horses had been lost, and when
nothing else had, unfettered beasts, and all this came my mother to raise my little brother.
We are not surprised at priests and friars, because the one steals from the poor and another house
for his devotees and to help as much, when a poor slave to love what
he did?.

And probósele what I say and more, because I with threats, they asked, and answered as a child,
and discovered he knew fear, until some shoes that my mother pormandado a blacksmith sold. When
my stepfather thought hit and Pring, and sorry for my mother put justice on the usual centenary
home that does not enter the aforesaid Commander, or the hurt in his Zaide accepted.

Not to throw the rope after the bucket, the poor woman went ahead and carried out the sentence
and to avoid danger and away from wagging tongues, she went to serve those who were living at
the inn de la Solana, and there, indignities, was completed to raise my brother until he knew
how to walk and me to be a good little boy who would guests wine
and candles and what else they told me.

Finally, no one said getting some passion, then do not said: "Do
this, this other, COSEDE such grass, take that root."

ANSI we were going under an arcade in Escalona, ​​where at the time we were in the house of
a shoemaker, there were many ropes and other things that are made
of straw, and part of them gave my master head, who, raising his hand,
touched them, and seeing what was said to me:

"Go quickly, young
boy, get out so bad dish from which stifles without eating."

Yo, that it was careless of what I looked what it was, and as I saw
but ropes and webbing, it was not anything to eat, I said to him:

"Uncle,
why do you say that?"

He replied:

"Hush, nephew, according to the tricks that you take, you'll know and see as I speak the truth."

And
thus we went ahead through the portal and arrived at an inn, at the
door of which was many horns on the wall where the Recuero tied their
horses.

And if he was tempted Hence the inn, where he prayed every day for
the landlady of the walled prayer, seized a horn with a big sigh and
said:

"Or bad thing, worse than you have the making!

Of how you want to put your name on head others and how few have
you not even hear your name, no way!

"

As I heard what he said, said:

"Dude, what's that you say?"

"Hush, my boy, someday you will it, I have that in hand, a bad lunch and dinner."

"Do not eat me," I said and I do not give it. "

"I tell you true, if not, see you, if you live."

And thus we passed on to the door of the inn, where it please God never arrived, as it happened
to me.

And when one of them escaped, God forgive me!, Which thousand times gave the devil, and he who had
died so many blessings from me said. Because the whole time I was there, it would be nearly
six months, only twenty people died, and I really think that I killed
or, rather, died at my request; because seeing the Lord my endless
and death, I was glad to kill you for giving me to my life.

More than this he suffered, was no remedy, if the day we buried I lived on was not dead, to look
good vezado of the fill, making my quotidian starvation rather sorry. So nothing stood out
except death, I also for me and the other wanted some times, but never saw it, but was always
with me. A neighbor said to him:

"In your house I remember that used to hang a snake, and it should be who the culprit. Maldíjeme
a thousand times - God forgive me! - and my bad luck, there most of the night, and (worst) osándome not
stir for not waken, I asked God many times death.

And as I say, he was with them just Macías, telling them more sweet that Ovid wrote. But as they
felt touched him that was fine, they are not ashamed to ask him to lunch with the usual payment.
He, feeling as cold as it was hot stock the stomach, he took it so
chill the color drained from his face, and began to trip over his
tongue to talk and lame excuses.

Them, they should be well instituted, as I felt disease, They left him for that era. For one
morning, getting the sad shirt climbed to the top of the house to make their chores, and as I get
out of suspicion, desenvolvíle doublet and hose to the head left, and found a pack of velvet,
satin fact one hundred fold and no damn white or hobiese signal that had plenty of time.

"This," I said is poor and no one gives what he has not. But the blind and the wretched miser
petty cleric who, with God give to both the one hand and kissed another loose tongue, starved
me, those are just having aquesta unlove and undefiled. "

God knows that today, when I run into any of their habit, with that
step and pump, we I pity to think if you have what it saw him suffer,
even with all its poverty'd still be glad to serve more than the others
by what I said.

Just had of some discontent that I would not be so presumed, rather than down a bit with how
much your fantasy coming up to your need. But it seems to me, and among them is the rule used and
stored, although Trucco not gored, they have to keep the cap in place. The Lord remedy, which
this evil must die. A sad and unfortunate house, the house dark and gloomy, the house where
they never eat or drink! "But his departure was no return. By the afternoon so that they returned,
but was too late.

Treaty Room How Lazaro Went to a monk of the Merced, and what befell him

I had to get the room, and he was a monk of the Merced, which silly
women who tell me headed, whom they called him kin: great enemy of
the choir and eating in the monastery, lost to go out, lay amicísimo
business and visit, so I think it broke he more shoes than the whole
monastery.

He gave me the first shoes I broke in my life But you never lasted eight days, and I was able
to outlast his trot. And because of this and other stuff I do not say, I left.

Fifth Treaty How Lazaro Went to a Pardoner, and the things that he spent

In the fifth by my good fortune gave, which was a Pardoner, the more brash and desvengonzado and
more caster indulgences that I ever saw or hope to see or do not think anyone saw, because he
and seeking ways and means and very crafty inventions.

In coming to a place where the bull had to submit, first presented
to the clergy or cure some things, not of much value or not: some
lettuce from Murcia, where were in season, a couple of limes or oranges,
peach, a couple of peaches, each path verdiniales pears.

ANSI tried them over because they promote their business and call his parishioners to take the
bull.

Provide him thank him, find out how well of reach. If they said they understood, spoke no Latin
word for they could not trip, but took advantage of a gentle and well-cut desenvoltísima romance
language. And if he saw that these clerics were among the reverend say that they bought it with
letters and reverend is ordered, he turned into a St. Thomas and
two hours talking in Latin, at least, it seemed but it was not.

When they would not taking the bulls, looking for what might take them for evil, and to what
had discomfort to people and other times with crafty artifice. And because all you see would
make a long story, tell a very crafty and diverting, with which it will prove its sufficiency.

Somewhere
in the Sagra of Toledo had preached two or three days, doing his usual errands, and had not taken
bull, I could not see had any intention of taking. Was given swore up and wondering what to do, he
decided to call the people to another morning so he's bull.

And that night, after dinner, they stood to play the collation he and the constable, and the game
came to fight and have bad words. He called the constable a thief, and the other to him liar. On this,
Mr. Commissioner my lord took a pike in the door of the play was. The sheriff drew his sword in his
side.

Noise and voices and all we, guests and neighbors come and métense in the middle, and procured
them very angry rid of that half were to be killed. But as people at all the noise the house was
full of them, seeing that they could not use weapons, they began to call injurious, including
the sheriff said it was my master forger and the bulls who preached
were false.

Finally, that the people, not enough to see that putting it in peace, agreed to take the sheriff
of the inn and elsewhere.

And so my master was very angry, and after the guests and neighbors pleaded with him to forget
about it and go to sleep, he left. And so we lay all.

The next morning my master went to the church and told to ring for mass and for fire sermon the
bull. And the people gathered, the muttering about the pardons, saying they were forgeries and
that the constable himself quarreling had discovered, so that after they had reluctantly of
tomalla, with that of all the hated.

The Lord went up to the pulpit and began his sermon, and encourage people to not remain without
the blessings and forgiveness as the holy bull brought. Being in the sermon, go by the church
door the sheriff and, after praying he got, got up and loudly and deliberate wisely began
to say:

"Good men, let me say a word, then listen to whoever you please."

I came here this swindler who preaches, who cheated and said that helped him in his business and
to split the profits.

And now, seeing the damage it would do to my conscience and your haciendas, regretting what
was done, I clearly stated that the bulls are preaching false and did not believe him nor
toméis, and I'm not direct or indirect part in them, and from agora leave the rod and give
her in the ground, and if some time it is punished for falsehood, that ye be witnesses to me as I
am not with him and I give this help, you the truth and declare his wickedness. "

And he finished his speech. Some honest men who were there wanted to raise and throw the constable
out of church, to avoid scandal. But my master stopped them hand and ordered all under penalty of
excommunication not in your way, rather than let him say everything he wanted. And thus, he
too was silent, while the sheriff said everything I said.

As silent, my master asked if I wanted to say more, say it. The sheriff said:

"Fed is more to say about you and your dirty, but enough for now."

Mr. Commissioner knelt in the pulpit, and his hands and looked up
to heaven said thus:

"Lord God, to Whom nothing is hidden and everything
manifest, for whom nothing is impossible, everything is possible,
you know the truth and how I have been accused unjustly.

In As for myself, I forgive you because you, Lord, forgive me.

Do not look at anyone who does not know what he says or does, but
the injury done to Thee, I pray, I pray for justice and not disregard
it Because someone here, that thinking of taking this holy bull, giving
credit the false words of the man, they will not take.

And it is so harmful to others, I beg you, Lord, do not disregard
it, but a miracle here, and it thus: if it is true what it says and
bring evil and falsehood, this pulpit to sink me and meta hundred
feet into the ground, where he and I ever be seen again.

And if it's true what I say, he, won over by the devil to remove and deprive those who are present
as great good, speaks evil, is also known punished and all his malice. "

He had hardly finished his prayer devout sir, when the black sheriff of the state falls and gives
such a blow on the ground that resounded throughout the church, and
began to howl and throw foaming at the mouth and twist it and make
grimaces with the gesture, kicking and hand, rolling around on the
floor and another part.

The shouts and cries of the people was so great that could not hear each other. Some were really
terrified. Some said

"The worth God help him."

Others:

"It serves him right, it stirred up such false testimony."

Finally, some who were there, and in my opinion not really afraid,
they came and locked him arms, with which he'd been thrashing those
who were near him.

Others rushed by the legs and had a hard time because there was no mule in the world so hard Pulling
kick. And so I had a great time, because more than fifteen men were upon him, and hit them all,
and if neglected, in their noses.

By the way, my master was in the pulpit on his knees, hands and eyes in the sky, carried in
the divine essence, that the plant and noise and voices in the church had no part in apartalle
of divine contemplation.

Those good men went to him and woke him up crying and begged him aid the poor man was dying, and
not to look at things past nor to his bad, because as them had to pay, but if anything could take
that man out of danger passion and suffering, for God's sake do so, because it was obvious
the guilt of the guilty and his truth and goodness, as to your request and vengeance, the Lord
did not prolong the punishment.

Mr. Commissioner, as if waking from a sweet dream, looked and looked
at the offender and all those who were her surrounding, and very slowly
he said:

"Good men, you do habíades to pray for a man in whom God
has so signally noted, but as he commands us not to return evil for
evil and forgive injuries, with confidence we beg you to do what he
commands us, and His Majesty forgive it offended you by putting obstacles
in their holy faith.

Let's all suplicalle. "

And so it came down the pulpit and instructed to devoutly beseeching our Lord had for good to
forgive the sinner, and get back on their health and sanity, and releasing the devil, if His Majesty
had allowed for his great sin he entered. They all got down knees, and before the altar with
the clergy began to softly chant a litany. And coming him with the cross and holy water, having
sung about him, my master, put their hands to heaven and eyes that seemed almost nothing but a
little white, begins a sentence no less long than devout, with which
he mourn all the people as often Hazer in the sermons of Passion,
a preacher and devoted audience, pleading with our Lord, it was not
the death of the sinner, but his life and repentance, that he aimed
persuaded by the devil and death and sin, he wanted to forgive and
give life and health to repent and confess their sins.

And this fact, he ordered the bull and putting it on the head, and then the sinner of a constable
gradually began to get better and turn itself.

And when he was back in his, and fell at the foot of the Commissioner and demandóle forgiveness,
and admitted that the mouth that and command of the devil, an injury done to him anger and revenge,
the other, more primary because the devil would really be hurt the good that could be made
to take the bull. Mr. My master forgave him, and friendships were made between them, and take
the bull was so haste, almost a living soul in the place was not without it: husbands and wives,
sons and daughters boys and girls.

Divulgóse the news of what happened in the neighboring towns, and when we got to them, did not
give a sermon or go to church, came to the inn to take like pears to make themselves freely. So in
ten or twelve more of those alderredor Wherever we went, my master threw a good thousand indulgences
without preaching a sermon.

When he did the test, I confess my sin that I was also shocked and thought dello ANSI was, like
many others, but after seeing the laughter and fun that my master and the officer had and
doing business, it had all been met by the industrious and inventive
my master. {Acaeciónos elsewhere, which I will not name in his honor,
the following, and my master was two or three sermons preached and
God do the bull took. Seen by the Case my master what had happened
and that, although he said were wary of a year, and were not taking
advantage as rebels take it and that his work was lost, he rang the
bells to say goodbye. And made his sermon and fired from the pulpit,
and we wanted down, called the clerk and me, who was charged with
a wallet, and Hizon reach the first step, and took the sheriff the
hands that had and had not in the bags, put them near his feet, and
it became a place in the pulpit with a happy face and throw from there,
tens and twenties in twenty of his bulls to all parties, saying:

"My
brethren, take, take of the graces God sends you to your homes, and
do not hurts, it is so pious work the redemption of Christian captives
which are land Moors. The
evil companion, which is nothing to Socorro, the third siren retired, holds. Climb at the end
of the first in the cross of two branches; rises after another, applauding nymphs and encourage
with shouts of enthusiasm ...

But behold, Rubio, the lieutenant of the third, a man attested to their peers bold Gun and a
devastating genius for females, it occurs suddenly rear its bold head above a thicket. The nymphs, seeing
him, cry out and are petrified attitude in the surprise. Consuelo, from the top of the tree, he apostrophizes
violence. If your hand was immediately trasformaría deer that new Actaeon. Here, for between
ourselves, it is possible that a husband preferred to first transform it, without prejudice
go ahead on the classic metamorphosis ... But Rubio, the lieutenant of the third, known well the
value of these cries, and these apostrophes. Do not flinch, smile mischievously and called hoarsely
to their brothers in arms. What confusion, fear among those smiling daughters of forests to approach
their children in close column of Mars! No pick blankets, and gloves, and umbrellas, anything
short of what belonged flee and disband the forest screaming in terror. But the red pants
satyrs pursue them with a vengeance, are caught here and there and bring them captive in the midst
of hideous laughter. Meanwhile the poor Consuelo, and locked up the tree for three of these sylvan
voluptuous absolutely refuses to go down when not away at least fifty yards. They Cruel! denied. Pray
the nymph, irritated, is about to mourn, but not anger or get tears soften the hardened heart
of the infamous satyrs. Finally resigned to descend and, although it takes many precautions
castes, they fail to see a foot deliciously shoes and a leg birth makes them roar with delight.
But where is Rubio? Where is the most terrible and ferocious of them all? It is not known, but long after
leaving the woods dragging Socorro, the most sentimental of the sprites of D. Cristobal. In
the cruel features of his face is painted the expression of triumph, and in hers shame and submission
of a captive. Many hours later, the last of the night, sitting at a coffee table and surrounded
Marañón eight or ten of his colleagues, Lt. the third narrated with evil smile expiration of the
nymph, calculating at least in three or four who managed to steal kisses in different places
on his face sorcerer and all the sons of Mars cheered and celebrated with this new triumph
Homeric laughter of his heroic partner.

Finally, the winners were not too tyrants, and order was restored by the timely arrival of the
Miss de Mere, who were accompanied by Maria Josefa and Paco Gomez.

The authors and solely responsible for everything that had drawn the bottom of the chest. Carmelita
Alepin wore a dress of black silk that came to light only in large occasions, whereas Nuncita
and therefore had fewer years and respectability, could wear a suit clear with embroidered flowers,
as only seen in pictures of the last century. Were happy eyes brimming with satisfaction,
but the legs did not respond to that eternal youth their hearts, walking paths relying on crutches
and with his free hand holding the arms of their escorts. They were received with cheers and hurrahs.
It also heard some Family tired phrases, such that no more than blessed to Meré indulged and
laughed. That's why the teasing had little merit. Ever there was a case of seeing them angry
with friends, and that some slipped in together until reaching quite a few times to rudeness.
On the other hand were very prone to internal strife, that is, to chafe each other, but we
know how long these masses stopped.

The reckless spirit of Lieutenant Rubio, crowded by circumstances engendered an idea most happy,
to wit: that to better spend the time until dinner time to be constructed
a swing, where the ladies could enjoy the happiness of a few moments
to shake off the diaphragm, and to provide them knights gallantly
moving the unit.

Said and done: the search strings, a table saw, in less than a quarter of an hour is all over.
Rubio, while carrying out, it is still expressive wink to his companions, including, smiling,
silent, deeply admired, as always, boldness and penetration of Lieutenant of the third. Already tied
the swing. Who is first? All show the same shame, her cheeks flushing same. One would think
wickedly propose Nuncita try it out. The others applaud the idea. Resists Nuncita terrified. Carmelita
or grant nor denies permission. Instances are repeated endlessly. The young men find the idea
increasingly original. Finally, almost by force, between the frantic applause of the circle, Cuervo,
the Herculean ensign of the first, lifted the girl in his arms and sits on the table.

- Hold on tight, Nuncia! - Paco Gómez yells, while the lieutenant said, and some other friends
start rocking.

- Soft, soft! - Carmelita exclaims.

Do not worry, they do so because they fear to find her on the ground.

But even moving the swing sparingly, the air gets up, before long,
the skirts of the old maid.

The officers laugh and push the swing to make it look more.

- Strong, strong, that something is caught! - Paco Gómez yells.

The girls, between laughing and ashamed, cover their faces and hug
each other saying word in the ear.

- Stop, stop! - Carmelita exclaims
you .-- Stop!

Nobody pays any attention.

Girl's clothes are going up, up: do not know where they're going
to stop.

- Stop, stop!

By God, sir, Lieutenant!

- Go with it! - Roar the military.

And the swing is ever more lively. Nuncita is so scared she has no time to think in the assault.

- Lord Lieutenant!

Captain Lord! - Carmelita trembling cries, waving arms, lower jaw toothless, beating against
the superior, toothless, too, with a shudder .-- particular Captain, Please God! For the Virgen
del Amor Hermoso! ... Stop! Stop! ... Stop!

- Sooo! - Paco exclaims.

But the captain is Swedish and is pressing.

Nuncita petticoats are already in the most where they can reach high peak. The girls are back
again, some are laughing to hide among the trees. Only when they had accomplished their work
of shamelessness was achieved deferred and that officers would enable Nuncita to land. His sister,
instead of being angry with the guilty, the embarks with her rage-filled, vibrating beams from
his eyes.

- Get out, naughty! Scandalous! Is that the education that you learned from your parents? Is it
So what I advised the confessor?

Nuncita, terrified, he begins to pout and drop the key of tears. Youth male, like female, try to
calm the enraged Carmelita. Captain and the ensign throw all the blame upon himself. It is
in vain.

The anger does not turn off until it While downloading offensive words and heavy. The poor girl,
sitting on the floor, sobbing, with his face buried in his hands, excited the compassion of all those
present, who never cease intercede for her.

The question is which one has to get into the swing later. Nothing pleases natural. How should
they be left swinging by men so bold and shameless? Military is in vain countrymen and explain his
conduct in the previous event and make an oath not to reoffend and be frugal and prudent, and
always orders the ladies. They do not trust. Especially Rubio Lieutenant inspires considering
a panic, and not without reason, as the soul from any lustful intrigue.

But the more hopeless they were, behold, Consuelo, dazed and determined little girl that had
recently been perched on a tree, talk to your ear to a partner and then forward and says,
in horror of his companions:

- I upload. You help me.

A scream of excitement greeted these simple words. For a few moments there was no more Consuelo
to live! Consuelo alive! the crowd frenzied. No one is unwilling to help and who does not fill
them with flowers and entertainment. The lieutenant athletic, with a gesture of chivalry, put
one knee and asks her to freeze her foot on his thigh.

The intrepid young is not to pray and run it, sitting in a jump in the table. The same military the
promise countrymen happy and change each other looks of intelligence, determined to break his word and
pay the trust of the girl with the blackest treason. But when they were about to kick off their evil
work by pushing the device does sign Consuelo his partner. It moves forward with a handful
of pins and in a moment he turns on the petticoats underneath, so there is no way that you see
or even toe throw a flying swing. Female sex crazy applauds enthusiastically.

- Well, Consuelo! Good!

The masculine, angry and sulky, dare not, however, to protest loudly, but murmurs that lack of
confidence, while interested, proud of its occurrence, looks on with a mocking smile. The
misery was complete. The Alfileritos obtained a success so flattering that there was no girl who
ascend to the device that fails to take sewing clothes previously with them.

While such memorable scenes were made in the forest, Jaime Moro, disdaining the pleasures countryside,
had been catechize Fray Diego and D. Juan Estrada-Rosa to take a
tresillito.

Was bored in church, was bored in the forest in the city and the countryside. Recovered only serenity
of mind and was reborn in him calm and happy when I took the cards hand. As luck would be of hardship.
There were no cards in the house. But why is not afraid. Down to the kitchen, separate calls to
a servant, who seemed lighter and muscular, and giving tip instructs it to go full speed into
the city and bring a pair of Barajitas. While therefore, not to escape it, make mighty efforts
to entertain their peers, speaking of what else may be interested, especially to Don Juan, who expressed
trends strongly marked to desert, tempted by the idea absurd for a walk in the fifth and make
a visit to the mill and other guests.

Moro was sweating with fear of not being able to grief resist until the return of the servant.
Fortunately it arrived on time. As he had in his possession the coveted decks and was another
man. Sure of victory by dragging them to one room removed from the mansion, it is appropriate
to bring a table, candles, beer, cigarettes, and we there! ... Having been to lose two fingers,
Jaime Moro enjoyed that happiness with a noisy joy it caused envy.

A good crowd of people ridiculous without imagination enough to understand, or taste the sweetness
the triplet, was gone, retired to the head, to travel and visit possession after new mill
that the earl had ridden a short time ago. They formed the party, among others, the boyfriend,
the captain himself Núñez, with those of their less favorable female, Garnet, D. Enrique Valero,
Saleta, Manin and a few others. The count was not could drag because he was not found. It said
he was giving orders to the servants and monitoring some works far away, but was not found
either in them. One foreman was doing there steward or medium provided to serve as a guide.

The
farm was situated on the gentle slope of the hill where it is established Lancia. Behind the
house is the forest, depriving him of sight in the city. So to be so close it seems to be a
hundred miles of it, in the kind of loneliness field.

At the same time protect against the winds of North and West, leaving only open to the mild
and beneficent streams coming from the south and east. Fail up there
the sounds of the population.

Only the cathedral bells ring true sweet hour muffled by distance. The main road is behind the
forest. Another little girl, who starts it, puts it in communication with the fifth. No is in
this, as we know, no English park or French, or garden, or waterfalls,
caves or artificial.

It is a half of recreational land, half of work.

First forest, then the house with his run, then a vast and neglected garden, then meadows immense
that extend along the foot of the hill and come to the river and
still saved and swell on the opposite shore.

For these grassland is grazing cattle, you hear their bells and the barking of dogs. It is easy
to forge the illusion of being within solitary nature. Peace is deep and only interrupts the
song of a bird or the lowing of a cow.

Hikers walked the blocks, which were well cared for, as the count had love of farming. However, Saleta
said the Netherlands had seen much better.

- Go figure, gentlemen - said with his characteristic Galician accent - there to cows were
tied with a rope tail, you know? and have it suspended so that when given the desire to provide
what can be done without getting dirty.

This news, rigorously accurate, it burst out laughing to the present.

- But this D. Ramon when they tire of inventing nonsense! - They said to each other under his
breath, all because of that damned liar reputation it had acquired.

- Pue atrazaiyo eztán well in Holland, a friend Zaleta - Valero said that would not let him
go a .-- In Manchester, when a cow he wants from ezo, ze Zientara him in a toilet and ze the sewage
treatment clean with toilet paper.

Saleta took no offense. I was so accustomed to the disbelief of his audience, although now bursting
with impatient really not not believe him.

When they had walked the blocks took the way of the cross-country meadows, and fell trimmed down
to the river, for both of the banks, alder, poplar and willow, which were here and there a
bush thick below which ran dark and gloomy. Lora is a river of the less abundant and at the same
time the most original of Spain. Before arriving the sea, "which is death," as the poet said,
is arranged to give plenty of laps as a wily old intended to mock the common law created beings.
Impossible to imagine an extravagant runway. Exits any very determined and booming population,
looks set to swallow the leagues and fearless go to the ocean.

But on the fourth of a league repents turns and slow and slouched back near the point of departure,
which suggests a some, not without foundation, walking uphill. Out again, not by choice, but pressed
by circumstances, this time out of sight, the whole world believes to be really never to return.
Not so, however. The big fox, when he understands that he no longer seen from the village, very
underhanded toss and again tries to get him, but he ashamed, and
before coming away a bit, it goes to a village near the same council.

Never pursued a career frank and open. Like all characters discounted, repugnant light, uses
every situation to slip under a rock or a bush and hide the gaze of men and remain stuck there,
rotting in degrading idleness. No one is wary of him. With its appearance of old and rheumatic
invalid, unable to take a step, has misled many shepherds. Invites you to swim into thinking
they do not have half a yard background, and then chokes miserably among its green waters. There
will be within breaking beauty of celestial nymphs swimming with their fragile alabaster arms
crystals, not to leave at night to play on her lymph the graceful mermaids, blond-haired. Lora
river is silent, enemy of all poetic idealism. Nothing fantastic beings. The fed only true
love is a swarm of frogs, so big that causes vertigo thinking how many of them live under its protection.
They are in charge of cheer with her melodious voice the places he travels.

They were also prevented with deafening noise that they Saleta could argue, as later claimed
that they were away, that being on the banks of Yumurí one afternoon, he had the kill with one stone
a crocodile. True that under the gaze of his insistent Valero colleague was quick to correct stating
that the crocodile was still a puppy and had no more than a run of teeth.

Continued good stretch the margin Shady Lora and crossed by a rustic bridge the place where the
earl had bled through a ditch, to move to his mill. But at that point, friends of the groom,
genuine representatives of the element more vigorous and masculine battalion, they suddenly
wake up the feeling of muscular strength and power of his legs. A lieutenant jumps the ditch.
A captain, not be less than the subordinate does too, but wet feet. Excited-esteem, takes off
his coat and goes again with happiness.

The others imitate. Instantly making that the appearance of the Olympic Games and still more
of the great American batuda.

But Núñez is an outstanding jumping. That was long known throughout the army and more particularly
in the infantry weapon.

Jumped three or four times with ease, but, wanting, as Of course, overcome their gallant comrades
and give proof of his skill, says in a tone dismissive "that is worth nothing" and that he is
able to jump the ditch, turning the back. These words were received with respect by his colleagues,
but also silence that the captain struck him doubtfully. And without
further ado resolve confused.

Does not shed only one item of uniform, this is for newbies, takes
flight, and arriving the water's edge turns and jumps, but with such
bad luck that your feet get tangled rushes in and falls back as long
as it was in the middle of the stream.

Is hidden from sight of his friends for a while, and finally out
snorting and splashing like a real triton saying that there is nothing
and it will jump again to display.

But his father- does not consent. I ran my hands through the body to make sure it's draft (how
had to be!) and dam of insane excitement, he who had only recently been exterminated in full to all
the militia, began to shout:

- It is necessary to move! ... Right now! ... A pneumonia!

... Moving! ... Friction! ... A rheumatic fever!

And other exclamations more or less consistent, which gave testimony to the keen interest health officer
inspired.

Nunez, though a warrior, yields to his request and returns to the house to face fierce grimly,
determined to be removed entirely to socks and go to bed while Lancia is sent by itself to a
mute.

All your friends around you, and so come to the house.

Emilita, which is the balcony, seeing them in that guise, she asked
with surprise:

- What is that?

- Nothing - her dad yells, - that
Nunez has fallen into the ditch.

Naturally Emilita hearing this heartbreaking cries out and falls fainting into the arms of several
ladies. Nunez, a hero, despising their own health, run to her rescue. In a few moments fills the
room with glasses of water and also come to light two or three bottles of antispasmodic. When he begins
to regain consciousness and reach the turning point of tears, her sister Micaela can not be contained,
violently scolds his dad.

- This has been a real barbarity! Have you figured that her daughter has a heart bronze? ... Well
little finesse is needed to hurt this way to a poor creature ...

The poor creature that defense pays a loving look in his eyes wet, squeezing while hand. The
retiree is in the last stage of depression and just dare to murmur "that live Núñez seeing
his side so there was no reason for fright." The Micaela ladies judge
that has been disrespectful to his father, but at the same time can
not least agree that what has been a bullet, and manifest the unhappy
wife an ardent sympathy.

VIII

Fernanda wine.

Fernanda had not witnessed
any of this. It was first thing in the forest, making bashful nymph
like her classmates, but soon tired of the paper, turned away from
them and began to think for the most solitary places. His head, as
always upright, bent under the weight of boredom or worry, its flexible
size, undulating, moving without a compass spinning to and fro like
a drunken man's body, dragged his eyes on the ground, those beautiful
African eyes were the most precious ornament of the noble city of
Lancia, and his face pale crossing a very deep wrinkles, a sign of
fixed and painful thought. Had much tortured for two months! The impression
that loves the Count had left in his soul, choked at first by the
pride, hope to return to them, had dilated suddenly to discover the
secret of their diversion, had burst into her, had filled and burned
all the love and jealousy. They were all the more harsh as he clearly
saw Luis had been cheating long time, he had pretended he loved and
to love when another. The miserable betrayal of the revolted Amalia,
inspired him with horror and disgust, but the Count, had to admit
it, the pain pierced his passion and was further widened. If so bad collated this globe, "replied the dwarf, if
it is so irregular, and a configuration that seems so ridiculous that everyone is I imagine
chaos. ? Not see these streams, which runs any right, these ponds and are round or squares,
or oval or any regular figure, all these bumps pointed that this bristling, and I have entered
on your feet? (And wanted to talk about the mountains). ? Do not you notice the way around the globe,
flattened at the poles, and spinning around the sun so confused direction, which by necessity
climates of both poles have to be uneducated? What forces me to believe that there is really living
in, is that no one who had reason floor would want. ? Who cares? Micromegas he said, may not have
common sense people, but after it is presumed that this has been done without any purpose. You
say that you all here appears irregular because everything is thrown into the line in Jupiter
and Saturn. Well, for the same reason is perhaps some confusion here. ? No I said that I had
always noticed variety in my journeys? Replied the Saturnino these reasons, and not completed
the dispute, if the heat she had not broken the thread of his Micromegas diamond necklace,
and caidose these, that they were very nice bright, though tiny and uneven, the thicker weighed
four hundred pounds, and fifty the most petite. Some grabbed the dwarf, and leaning saw the eyes
as they were polished, microscopes were excellent: grabbed as a kid microscope hundred and sixty feet
in diameter, and was applied to one eye, while Micromegas is served another two thousand and
five hundred feet. At first they saw nothing with them, since they were gifted, had to be put in
the position that was required. After the inhabitants of Saturn saw something bobbing imperceptible
in midwater the Baltic Sea, and it was a whale, nicely laid it over your finger and placing
it in a thumb, she was taught to Sirius, the second time he laughed at the huge smallness
the inhabitants of our globe. Persuaded by that Saturnino was inhabited our world he imagined
then that it was just for whales, and as it was great discurridor, tried to guess where the movement
came to an atom so mean, and if I had ideas, will and free will. Micromegas not know what to think,
but having examined the animal patiently, bag of consideration that he could not reside in the
body as a soul boy. Inclinabanse for our two walkers to believe that there is no reason in our
room, when, with the aid of a microscope, package distinguish other thicker than a whale in
the Baltic Sea walked fluctuating. We know that by that time returned from the polar circle,
a flock of philosophers, who had gone to make observations that no one had hitherto thought. They
brought the papers public that their boat had capsized off the coast of Bothnia, and they had
a difficult time going out to rescue, but you never know in this world there is to vnder rope. I
I have naively the event, without removing or adding anything, effort on the part of a historian is
exceedingly meritorious.

CHAPTER V.

Experience and reasoning of both walkers.

Micromegas tended with great circumspection hand via the site of the object, and stretching
and shrinking fingers of fear of being wrong, and then opening them and closing them, I take very mana
the ship where they were these gentlemen, and placed on a "not too tight, not estruxarle. Lo here
a very different animal from the other, 'said the dwarf of Saturn and Sirius put the pretense
animal in the palm of the hand. The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which is believed caught
by a storm, and thought they aground on a Baxi, are all in motion; sailors caught barrels of wine,
toss them at the hand of Micromegas, and after they are thrown; seize the geometries of quarts
circle, their sectors, and Lapp, and alight on the fingers of Sirius: Finally both were busy,
they felt it shaking a thing that beetles in the fingers, and it was a club with an iron tip
nailed him a foot in the index finger: the itching made him believe that the body had become
something The creature that I had on hand, but could not suspect anything at first, as its microscope
barely enough to distinguish a ship of a whale could not make visible a entecillo as inconspicuous
as a man. I do not want censure of any vanity here, but please vainglorious people to stop
the consideration here, and consider that if ordinary height of a man five feet of the king,
but do not lump in the ground than in a ball ten feet in circumference did an animal that
had a hundred avos thousand of an inch high. Let us imagine a substance that could lead the globe
terraquueeo in hand, and had bodies similar to ours, and it is most likely that there many of these
substances, and I gather that is what the functions of war, we have won two or three small
place that has since been restoring force would think.

I have no doubt that if any captain of grenadiers shall read this book, have your troop put hats
two feet higher, but I warn you that, however you do, always will be the and his soldiers about
infinitely small.

iQue wonderful mana you need our philosopher had Sirius for managing to descry the atoms of
which I speak! Quando Hartsoeker Leuwenhoek and saw, or believed that Vian for the first time,
the seed of which we are formed, there was not nearly as amazing discovery. iQue Micromegas
like that of when he saw these razors wiggle, when examine all their movements, and continued
its operations! iCom cried! icon who retired extension cord to his partner of one of its microscopes
journey! I'm watching them, they said both together; behold as loaded as baxan and rise. So
they said, and they shook hands the joy of seeing objects as new, and the fear of losing sight.
Saturnino passing of a trust to the opposite end of credulity, it figures that he was busy
watching in the propagation. Ha, he said the Saturnino, I have caught nature "red-handed." However
Enganabanle appearances, and so very frequeentemente happens, when one uses and when do not use
microscopes.

CHAPTER VI.

From what I happened to men.

Very best observer Micromegas his dwarf, he saw clearly that the atoms were spoken, and it pointed
out to his partner, which with the embarrassment of having deceived about the article the generation,
unwilling to believe that such kind of bugs could communicate ideas. He had the gift of tongues
is not less than Sirius, and not hearing about our atoms, supposed who did not speak: then? as
the organs were to have a voice as subtle bodies, or that they had to say? To talk is essential to
consider and if thought, had something which was equivalent to the soul: and attribute something equivalent
to a kind soul so base, is to much nonsense. The Syrian told him:? For You thought not, little does,
which were falling in love? ? Do you think to love one without thinking, without saying a word,
or at least not make themselves understood? , Or suppose it is easiest thing to a child a
syllogism? My one and one I seem impenetrable mysteries. I dare ya, 'said the dwarf, to believe
or deny any thing, try to look these insects, and runs later. iQue my place! Micromegas answered,
and drawing a tixeras, trim her nails, and short of what one of her thumb made the point a kind
of big horn, like a huge funnel, and put the fee at an ear, the circumference funnel took the
ship and all its crew, and the weakest voice in the fibers were introduced circular one, so that,
through their industry, the philosopher of heard up there well the buzz of our insects abaxo here,
and within hours was able to distinguish words, and understanding after the French. So did
the dwarf, but not so easily. Spot grew the astonishment of the two travelers, on hearing about
quite a few mites reason, and this game seemed inexplicable nature. Well it goes that he was
dying the dwarf and Syrian desire to engage in conversation with the atoms, but the dwarf
is feared his thunderous voice, and even more of Micromegas, thundered to the mites without
being overheard. They tried, as to diminish its force, and it got a toothpick in his mouth very
tiny, very sharp as he was going to stop next to the ship. He put the dwarf on the Syrian his knees
and one on top of a ship with the crew; Baxo head and spoke very quietly, and after all these precautions
and many more, said the following: Invisible bugs the right hand of the Creator is pleased
to produce in the abyss of the infinitely small, I manifest myself worthy bless because impenetrable
secrets. Perhaps no one is worthy of yourselves in my court, but
I despise anyone, and I give you my protection.

If there has been amazing in the world, none has reached the that this was heard to say, unable to hit
upon which he left. The chaplain pray the prayers of spells, and disowned voted sailors, and
forged a philosophers of the ship, but for most envisioned systems, were unable to hit upon who was
speaking to them. And he told them in brief the dwarf of Saturn, which was less Micromegas is
stronger voice with which people were talking, and his journey to Saturn: I inform the gentleman
who was Micromegas, and having compassion they were so young, I wonder if they had always lived
in a state as bordering on nothing, and that was what they were doing
in a balloon which appeared to be peculiar to whales, if they were
happy, if they had soul, if multiplied, and a thousand other questions
of this sort.

Dudasen angry that if I had a soul, a reasoning of the band, more daring than others, the participant
observed a finlets adapted to a quarter of a circle, measured with two triangles, and the third
told him so:? With what you believe, sir knight, that because you have two thousand yards from
head to toe, you are some ...? gone a thousand yards! exclaimed the dwarf, it is not wrong
or an inch. iCon I measured the atom! icon that is geometry, and he knows my size and I that
I can not see without the aid of a microscope, not even yours! Yes, that I have measured he
said the physical, and also measure your giant companion. Admitiose the proposal, and Acosto His
Excellency on the ground, because they stood their head was higher than the clouds, and our
philosophers they planted a tree in a very large site or Torres Quevedo been appointed by
name, but I do not dare to lie on the great respect that I have the
ladies, and then by a series of triangles, connected to each other,
guessing that the person was a mancebito mediate hundred and twenty
thousand feet of a king.

Micromegas then burst out in these reasons: I see that you never have to judge things its apparent
magnitude. O God, who gave intelligence to some substances such despicable seem infinitely small
costs no more to your omnipotence that the infinitely large; and if it is possible that other
creatures smaller than them, perhaps will have a higher intelligence
that of those huge animals I've seen in the sky, and with one foot
would cover the entire globe where I am now.

Answered one of the philosophers who could not believe it, but you have any doubt, he had loved much
more intelligent boys than men, and told him not fables that we have forsaken Virgilio on bees,
but what Swammerdam discovered, and what has dissected Reaumur. Instructed him then there are
animals that are about bees, which are the bees with respect man, and what was the Syrian
same with respect to those so stout of animals speaking, and what are these big animals compared
with other substances to the quale seem imperceptible atoms.

Gradually the conversation was becoming interesting, Micromegas and
said so.

CHAPTER VII.

Conversations with men.

O atoms intelligent, in whom it pleased the eternal Being in showing their art and power no doubt
that your globe PLEASURE purest happy, as having so little substance and looking all spirit,
you ought to use your life in love and think that is true life of the spirits. In part I have
seen no real happiness, but I am sure this is his mansion. Encogieronse shoulders to hear
this argument all the philosophers; and more naive one sincerely confessed, except a very few of
residents very little appreciated, everything else is a cafile crazy, perverse and unfortunate.
More material we have, he said, which is necessary to do evil, if evil comes from matter, and
more intelligence, if it comes from intelligence. ? Par example You know that when this one
hundred thousand fools of our species, who wear hats, are killing a hundred thousand other animals
covered with a turban, or dying at their hands, and so is style throughout the land, immemorial
time here? The Syrian terribly shocked, and asked the reason for such horrible strife between
so vile little creatures. It is, he said the philosopher, a few scraps of land sizes as your foot,
not because neither one of the millions who die request even a lump
of that piece, it is to know whether to belong to a certain man Sultan
called or another surname Cesar, do not know why.

Neither has been and never see the little corner of land that is in dispute, nor least almost
none of the animals that has been reciprocally are killed either by the person who kills the animal.

iDesventurados!
Sirius exclaimed indignantly:? as you can imagine so mad frenzy? Starters come to give me
three steps, with three kicks estruxar ridiculous this whole swarm of murderers. You do not
take that job, he responded, which left them till toil ruin. Know that within ten years in life
fails, the tenth of these wretches, and that even without drawing the sword, almost everyone
carries the hunger, fatigue, or the distemper, apart from that it is they who deserve punishment,
but the idle ruthless, which stuck sent in his cabinet, as they digest the food, slaughter a million
men, and are then solemn thanksgiving to God. I felt the walker moved to pity the wretched
lineage human in so many contradictions found qual. As you, he said to these gentlemen, the short
number of scholars who certainly kill anyone for money, I pray you tell me quale are your occupations.
Dissected flies, "replied the philosopher, measured lines, combined numbers, we agree on two
or three points that mean, and divided on two or three thousand who do not understand. It occurred
to Sirius and ask questions Saturnino atoms thinkers, to know about that they were consistent. ? Far
is, he said this, since the star Canicula to the big Geminis? They answered together: Thirty-two
degrees and one-half .--? Quanto far from here the moon? - Sixty semi-diameter of the earth
.--? Quanto weighs your ayre? Taken if any thought, but all they told him that weighed nine hundred
times less the same volume of water lighter, and nineteen thousand times less than gold. Astonished
the little elves urgently Saturn with their answers, I was tempted to believe that those were
magic ones to whom a quarter of an hour before the intelligence had
been denied.

Micromegas finally said to them: Once you know how time what is outside of you no doubt that you
will know better yet what is inside: say they know what is your soul
and how are your ideas. Philosophers spoke all at the same time, as
before, but all were of a different opinion. We vengábamos to talk about
the holy life of Parsondes and put in contrast to the life they carried.

So things were going, when Art called me early morning early to his presence.

- There is hope, he said, that Parsondes still alive, but if dead,
it is necessary to avenge and punish her killer, which can not be
other than King Nanar.

- Your wisdom, sir, I said, is like the light,
which penetrates and find out.

 Not the slightest contraction accused the pain the
bite.

The gathering broke up at noon, as usual. Fernanda felt great comfort in breathing cold, damp
air of the night.

Was craving to be alone with his thoughts and be fully aware of what had just learned.

It had rained a lot. The streets, paved with thick stone, sparkled in the light of lamps. When
leaving the house took some down the street, others, including Fernanda
upward toward the square.

Few steps were taken when they heard the loud trotting horses at
that moment that bent the corner and down towards them.

- There is
the Baron and his servant - said Manuel Antonio.

It was time, indeed, that the eccentric baron Oscos went for his usual walk through the streets
of Lancia. The unpaved his famous prancing horse, raising such a crash, even if the horse of
his servant, much more patient, it appeared that crossing the city a squadron. When crossing the circles,
Manuel Antonio, with the impudence to characterized him, he shouted: "Good evening, Baron." But he
turned to face them fearful, stared at them with his fierce eyes
and moved on without answering.

The queen, running, said:

- Va drunk, as usual!

Everyone nodded laughing.

But deep felt all, some more than others, the same thrill to see that sinister figure. Fernanda,
for women and special status of his soul, visibly flinch, after spending continued even through
the eyes of fear of two riders until they were lost in the shadows.

When you get into bed, his heart tightened, wanted to analyze the
emotion that dominated; wanted to go back to the cause.

He felt ashamed of it.

His pride made him cry with rage and loud

- Me I care about these
pranks?

What I have to do with him or her?

But I just felt utter such words heated cheeks with tears. The Heiress Estrada, Rosa quickly turned
and buried her face covered with blushes, in pillows.

VII

The increase of the quota.

The terrible difficulties should arise Emilita for marriage because of the anti-war views of his
father, he bashed her with more ease than could be expected. History does not speak (although
better reason to have that many events) that day Nunez was solemn
in uniform to ask D. Christopher the hand of his daughter, that embrace
memorable it received him warmly against his chest shaking civilian,
that incredible fusion of two heterogeneous elements created to repel,
and thanks to the love a sweet and naughty angel interpenetrate and
understood.

If by chance this Page Private object of attention was a historian, would have no choice but to affirm
the very great importance of such agreement, which until then had considered unlikely, and at the
same time to present fairly the back, discovering how future generations So the distinguished
patrician D. Christopher Matthew was the victim of social injustice and persecution of their fellow
citizens.

You know, everyone in Lancia authorized to give thought to this respectable
old song and a former official on the marriage of his daughter.

Sometimes directly, sometimes indirectly, always played such an extent that alluded to the opinions
against the development of ground forces supported by him until then. The couple gave to be
called "the increased the quota, "and some carried their impudence to give such a name in
front of his future son. It is easy to conceive how much saliva would have had to swallow
before losing, as he, an annoying and misunderstood shame.

But despite all the rants and complaints of the neighbors, reflecting, in Matthew felt, rather than
its playful nature, envy that burned most of the hearts, "the increased quota" was making its
way. The deadline to do it was the month of August. When the time came he had acquired such importance
that, as usually in small towns, barely talked about anything else. Retired relationships and
four daughters were numerous, and they all aspired to be invited on the day of wedding. Moreover,
the same aspiration in his heart some decent and honorable Pontevedra
battalion officers friends of the future.

Not being able to gather so many people Poetic Home for the Elderly, was thought to hold the
wedding in the country. The purpose home more Farm was its proximity
to the population. D. Cristobal asked for the count, with who had
extreme confidence, like his daughters, and he hastened to put to
provision.

In the Church of San Rafael was consummated early in the
morning that fortunate partnership, the sure pledge peace between
the civilian and military. Its
shores are confused about the valley, the road passes and brushing their murmuring sleepy waves. On
the opposite side are well-cultivated plains, and two or three villages similar to that of Sachseln.
The length of the lake does not exceed 6.366 meters, to 1.916 wide and 70 deep; and the navigation
is done in little boats of simple construction.

Sarnen, which has just over 3,400 residents, is climbing partly on the side of a mountain, resting
softly on both banks of the Aa and surrounded by beautiful trees. The style of this small town
is so original and funny, and noting its simplicity of form no one would think that it is in
the capital of a sovereign Sitado. But this simplicity is understood with sympathy, knowing that
the double city of Unterwalden is not nothing but a humble and happy confederation of districts
that are all democratic republics. Unterwalden, by their smallness, not worth a relationship
stopped, as a political body; but some of its characteristic institutions deserves to be cited
as a model and to be respected by the philosophy and good sense of
its citizens.

The population of Nidwalden, race, or rather early Germanic speaking exclusively German (very flawed)
and has scarcely 24.960 individuals, distributed in 13 parishes, which correspond to 7 and
6 to Nidwalden Obwalden. Since the year of 1150 established the division State in two separate government
entities, with one capital in Sarnen and the other in Stanz. Unterwalden was one of the three
confederates who formed the League of William Tell to be a Swiss citizen, and his brave soldiers
took part in all the battles for independence. The Canton as a whole contains only natural
forests, Verjel meadows and, being almost completely void of cereal cultivation and manufacturing.
Thus, their yields are reduced to cutting of timber, crops of fruit (pears, apples, cherries, plums,
peaches, apricots and walnuts), the extraction of citron (kirchenwasser) exquisite walnut oil
and honey, and the manufacture of cheese, all of which yield relatively
large values, as well as the offspring of cattle.

Each of the parishes as a democratic, independent self-government and governed by assemblies
of all citizens, and elected officials for services permanent. Each half-canton has its own
citizens, and only have the common suffrage a hundred primitive patrician families were entitled
before the division of State. The institutions of the two half-cantons or political twins are
so similar that enough to indicate one of them to the whole idea. Each year all meet in Assembly
active citizens of the Confederation of parishes [24] in order to discuss and vote laws and budgets,
approve the accounts of the administration, appoint, if appropriate, the representatives to be
included in the legislative bodies of the Confederation Swiss, and choose the high magistrates
of the common administration of small confederation. The House has no initiative in legislation
and is reduced to approve or reject which offers the Executive. This is composed of 12 or 14 judges
called Proposed (Vorgesetzten), chaired by the Landammann (Man who rules the country), kind of President
elected annually by the Assembly or Landsgemeinde. The Proposed are immovable.

[24] More than a quarter of the inhabitants are citizens.

Obwalden has about 13.400 inhabitants and Nidwalden the rest. Citizenship is acquired at the
age of 20 years.

The most beautiful feature of these two confederations microscopic living so happily its pure democracy
is the institution on the death penalty. This can not be pronounced or ordered, by great coincidence
occurs when a capital crime, but by a grand jury composed permanent judges and all citizens
over 30 years (except the clergy) who are not relatives of the parties and may be sworn. After
the principle of sanctity of life, worth more than all, nothing is as beautiful as this recognition
the principle of social family, whereby it is allowed to take the life one of its members
without the whole community of their vote and consents. It is strange that a statelet microscopic
lost between the buttresses and lakes of the Alps, you are giving
lessons to be called civilized world about the fraternal solidarity
of men and rights of human life!

Do not forget to note that the Executive is assisted in each half-canton by a grand Council of Representatives,
and the superior court of each group is also a federal set of judges or legal representatives
of the parishes.

Thus, the federal idea is shown in all entities, from the confederation of individuals to
the districts as shown later in the association of sovereign cantons.

In Alpnach port at the foot of Mount Pilatus, we embarked on board a steam cross the lake of Four
Cantons in the direction of Lucerne.

To our right we saw Stanz, asleep in his graceful valley, and Lake unfolding before our eyes haunted
her waves reverberant, its magnificent mountains and a panorama of the most poetic and varied
forms evoked in all its sites a thousand memories of the heroic times of Switzerland.

Almost in the center of Swiss territory in the region where it ends in a way the mountainous
area and starts the undulating or very rough, there is a relatively hoya considerable, taking on the river
Reuss hydrographic center offers to the eye of the traveler the more varied and perhaps the
most beautiful panorama of this natural wonderland.

This basin, with irregular shapes and less enclosed on all sides to the north, is determined
by numerous buttresses the Alps shed on the plains in many different directions, and a whole
produces the juxtaposition of numerous valleys, very narrow and deep, spinning all over the central
valley of the Reuss river, rising in the heights of the Furka, a
short distance from the source of the Rhone, runs absolutely opposite
direction and goes from south to north, to carry its waters into the
Rhine, misdiagnosed as Aar and the Limmat.

The sinus or widening of the Reuss in the bottom of a huge basin perpendicular rocks, is what
is the lake of Four Cantons (Fri-Waldstatt-See), the most irregular and, without dispute,
the most curious is how Switzerland.

At around that lake basin and within the basin indicated are, in whole or in hand, the four
corners that give your name to the lake: the O. that of Nidwalden; to S. the of Uri, the E.
that of Schwyz, and N. that of Luzern or Lucerne, - surrounded by Berne, Glarus, Zug, Aargau,
etc.

Thus, the four corners are the most picturesque cluster of steep hills and steep (Some snow), narrow
and smiling valleys, hills and streams, forests, meadows and Verjel, which are stacked or alternated
around the lake to multiple and capricious as the thousand varied forms a vast semi-wilderness park
and around semi-artificial an enormous pool of granite murmuring
waves and blue transparent.

If the topography and the community of interests, patriotic efforts, language, religion, race and
traditions, have created a close fellowship among the four or five cantons rather above, the conformation
of its admirable Lake states, with no less evidence that the topography, that those people were
born destined to the social community.

In fact, if you look at the strange configuration of the entire lake, the opposite direction
its bays and five major rivers or streams drain into the basin common
granite, is recognized in a very distant time, but the current did
not exist a series of five or six lakes, linked together by rivers
and stretching that determined confounded all the Lucerne Basin.

Thus, having its main channel flow and in the Reuss, the total lake (which must have formed
by natural levees breaking and the widening more or less slow tributary channels) is: to the
east, the waters of Muottas, central stream the canton of Schwyz, the west, on the Isenthal,
the lower or middle Aa city of Nidwalden, and higher Aa, which, as I said, collects the waters
of the canton of Obwalden half.

The lake as a whole has the irregular shape of some sort of a Latin cross with the shaft broken
down, but lying in the opposite direction. The broken foot is a small basin Altorf for the valley,
particularly called Lake of Uri, and fed only by the waters of the Reuss and Isenthal. The central
body of the cross is determined the other basin of a very different direction, almost enclosed by
two narrow, which is named Buochs ​​particular lake, and get at its upper end Muottas waters,
and towards the N.-O. Aa the bottom. Below opens another watershed, one of the beams a magnificent
four-star gulfs, is both the principle of the body or trunk the large cross. There the waters
are divided into four receptacles quite similar: on the right foot tour of the magnificent mountain
of Rigi or Righi, bearing at its apex to Küssnach; on the left, which
is another arm of the cross, is directed towards the foot of the colossal
mass of Pilate, and is divided into two smaller bays, one of which
is Lake Alpnach, in short, that determines the head of the cross takes
its direction towards Lucerne with the unique name of Lake Lucerne,
is making its way through the midst of beautiful, rolling hills, dividing
the city into two parts, and restore the river Reuss.

This imperfect and pale description will give some idea of ​​the singular caprice or the multiplicity
forms the lake of Four Cantons, the most interesting of all of Switzerland for appearance and composition
geological basins that are chained, and the most poetic Also, because of the performances offered
and the relatively evokes memories to the history of the Confederation Considered in full,
the lake has an elevation from 438 to 450 meters above sea level, and measured at its maximum
length 38.530 meters, 15.100 wide and 360 deep. The various directions of the valleys or the works
that are incline toward the lake basin determines the most diverse and even opposing wind currents,
which together with the steep, rocky composition throughout the bed,
produces the most violent storms, which are repeated frequently and
sometimes suddenly.

Lucerne is, no doubt, by their situation and the gorgeous countryside surrounding it, one of the
funniest cities in Switzerland, or at least of that delay on lake margins. Thus, a whole or general
appearance, whether you look at it from the lake, whether it contemplates from some eminence,
is wonderfully poetic and cheerful. HOWEVER, within, apart some curious details, Lucerne does not
correspond to their appearance or to the idea that their reputation makes him conceive in advance
of the traveler. The facade does not match at all with interior é of the city. When we arrived
on board the steamer which took us from eleven o'clock Alpenach in the morning, under a sky
full of splendor glistened in the beam almost perpendicular the sun the lake and the river,
docks and bridges, great and beautiful modern buildings dominate a wide boardwalk square, the towers
of the cathedral and other churches, and numerous towers and bastions of feudal crenellated walls that
surround the city. This set was really seductive, and its beauty is completed with the magnificence
of the scenery round about, overcrowding of beautiful rolling hills
covered with orchards and gardens dotted with villas and picturesque
country houses in dispersion.

But to penetrate into the city, just behind the first row of buildings overlooking the lake,
everything changed in appearance. Wherever there are filth in the streets, Dresses sad, neglected
and without character, winding streets, ugly and unpleasant, and looking houses with much sympathy.
Fortunately, if the dirt and waste increases sorrow of those streets, industrial and commercial
movement gives them some animation of another kind. The curious traveler stops to look at public
sources of traditional forms and features (perhaps the most original of all those seen in Switzerland),
and bridges cast Reuss on to join the two parts of the city, nearly all of wood, covered and
decorated with the most curious altarpieces. Each country is manifested in its monuments in
Switzerland, the country the pure and abundant waters, has lavished
on all those sources commemorative cities national traditions, the
forms are so characteristic.

Lucerne is not remarkable for any fine art, industrial or literary, or their monuments or public
buildings. Their unique wooden bridges, so characteristic of Switzerland, as public sources
of stone topped by figures of warriors or animals, curious that are not in fact deserve the name
of monuments. The most beautiful building in the city, located on the S.-O., to the left of
the river, is the former Jesuit College (now Lycée cantonal become), and that superiority is further
evidence of that everywhere the Society of Jesus has made the best batch. Of the four bridges
of Lucerne the most notable are: the Hof, measuring 360 meters long and crosses the apex of the lake,
offers a wonderful view over the mountains, and is lined inside with 238 bad pictures painted
in oils representing biblical passages, and the Kapell, which dominates the point the lake becomes
a river, is 324 meters and contains 154 pictures of very old date represent events in the history
of Switzerland and the life and times of the two patron saints of the city, for the curious
who are these old bridges is to be welcomed the resolution of demolish the city to establish
piers and docks along the banks of river, and replace them with more
solid and elegant buildings.

Of all the sights of Lucerne, which draws more attention from passers travelers The monument is dedicated,
out of town, to the memory of Swiss soldiers who died the service of Louis XVI on the famous
day of August 10, 1792, fighting against the people Paris. The monument consists of a huge lion
allegorical (9 meters long and 6 height) carved in the bottom of a sort of cave dug into a large
boulder. A waterfall that jumps over the lion, falling into a pond, a nearby chapel, a smart
house within which sales are a thousand curiosities, and flags of green surrounding the monument,
complete the picture funny. There we found a keeper in uniform of the Swiss of Louis XVI, securing
with much aplomb to three English ladies he had fought like a lion in the usual day of August
10, escaped by a miracle. Although the illustrious fighter having stated no more than sixty
years, and was very knowledgeable in point of French geography, that did not prevent a serious
citizen "perfidious Albion" were eagerly collecting the reminiscences of the Swiss and carefully
writing them a portfolio of travel, as news of the first order.

If the naive credulity of the island made us smile, I confess I did not understand the pride that
the citizens of Lucerne maintain this strange monument, which to my eyes was but a pattern
of infamy, or at least a sad reminiscence. Instead of devoting monuments to the memory of the degradation
of the noble and free people of Switzerland, citizens the Confederation should make every effort
to condemn to oblivion the flamboyant mercenary which for centuries has made Switzerland a hotbed
of soldiers of the most odious tyranny and the most corrupt and corrupting governments. If in
the last ten years has Swiss mercenaries seen looting Peruza, as soldiers of the Pope and defending
atrocities the cause of the Bourbons of Naples, it must be remembered also, in honor of radicalism
Swiss, the assemblies and the government of the Confederation have taken action at this time
strong to end the mercenaries. Thanks to the incomparable Garibaldi and to Gialdini and other
general Italian, Swiss soldiers have disappeared from southern Italy; and between the major results
of the Italian revolution will not be one of the less significant the replacement of the heroic
and selfless volunteer (an instrument of emancipation and symbol the brotherhood of the people)
instead of a mercenary from another era, an instrument of oppression
and a symbol of human degradation.

       

* * * * *

Lucerne, mainly Catholic city, has about 11.500 inhabitants, which in 1857 only 317 were Protestants.
Thanks to steam navigation of the lake, in relation to the road leading to Italy by the Saint-Gothard,
and the recent railroad that has been rapid communication with Bern and railways in western and
northern Switzerland, Lucerne begins to have considerable commercial importance, though perhaps
partly lose it when Italy and Switzerland have direct and prompt communication. Lucerne industry
is reduced to some tissues cotton, flax and hemp and articles of hosiery, and factories are
very subordinate. Produce also straw hats and other items of little importance. For the rest, Lucerne
is faithful general thought (the result of the emulation system that generates the federal independence)
that inspires so careful to the Swiss interest in training establishments and charities. The
isolation of nature had been to the Swiss villages, before the invention
modern industry in the field of communications, had made them understand
that they should Take full force themselves.

Genius and taste, in their common acceptation, appear to be very nearly related; the difference
lies only in this, that genius has superadded to it a habit or power of execution. Gumi I put on the table at night. I put it there with very
cautiously and shaking that woke my wife. I looked at Beatrice. I looked like who looks at the
treasure that has been lost. All your worth, all its beauty, all spell flashed his before my
eyes brighter than ever. What sweet bastard, what love without honor and without shame, what affection
villain poisoned me at that moment the heart and ran through my veins to my perverse blood?
This is wiped my tears, got his head slowly and gently and without barely touching his lips,
kissed her rosy cheeks.

"Fortunately I was in the reaction. Received the outrage offered to
my spirit.

I filled with shame. I was ashamed, I was disgusted by my weakness.

"The idea of ​​killing Beatriz again asked me undecided will. I grabbed the iron again. Again
stepped back frightened.

"I fled the room, fled from the house like a thief.

I opened both doors with the keys had saved, then carefully closed. I found myself in the
street.

»What to do? I looked ridiculous. He could not suffer.

In the middle of the street gave me a seizure of nervous laughter. If someone had heard me take
me for crazy.

"Lots of thoughts found, and all very sad, crossed my mind went and returned with cruel persistence.

"For
a brief moment imagine still insisted that it could be slander anonymous accusations, but soon
ran away from me this idea comforting. It alone has not returned.

"What was the crisis solution that was me? Did I had to kill my wife? Does I had to kill her
lover?

"No, it was not weakness of mine: I was in the mood to kill someone who had been at that point
to steal my watch or the few actual carrying in his pocket, but perhaps a moral perversion, I could
not consider me a thief who stole the joy, love my wife and the honor
of my house clean.

The watch and money are my property, no free will, not the thief go and leave me because I prefer,
while Beatrice was with another and left me because she preferred. He did well to take it. Why
had I to kill him for this? What should I respect him to me for neglecting my happiness and
yours?

"Therefore, putting aside my soul the thought of killing my opponent.

Tried in the court my conscience, I do not absolve, but recognized the incompetence of the court.
I do not acquitted because I am the victim. If the victim had been an indifferent, would have
acquitted. Could therefore kill, not justice but revenge.

"Then I thought of the duel, but how to fight with swords or guns
or in life I have taken into their hands?

I also hated the idea of ​​me before and offended to claim and equal chance to avenge my wrong,
to confess my stupidity in arms and my inability, to appeal to not know what means to force a
happy rival to be put in front of me luck, I, skinny, old and infirm
could kill him he being young, agile and robust.

"Neither murder nor the match were possible. Another man who was not I would be separated forever
of his wife. There was no party more in accord with reason. I, however, could not follow. I will
not live away from home. It's horrible, stupid, it is monstrous, but I love, I will continue
always loving.

Without your love, the world will be a desert for me, life, loneliness
fearful; my heart, an emptiness that is filled with nothing.

"The human soul needs love, worship, believe. Heaven has punished the pride of my soul. Have been
thrown her idols, altars, all worthy of adoration and love. In contrast, I put my worship, my
love, my faith and hope in Beatrice.

She was ... my idolatry.

"The love of the unbeliever is immense. The unbeliever devoted to a negligible object full force
of love that seeks to elevate the believer to the divine ideal.

"Well, why tired? I wandered like a meek beast that has stuck in his
chest a poisoned dart.

At night I wandered, the day I've been blind. I have shame that people
I see.

It seems to me that everyone knows the teasing that I am a victim, my patience, my love bad
paid, and will laugh at me or going to spit in the face.

"Last night was my last resort to ridicule.

"I do not doubt. I walked around my house, and close to four o'clock I saw a man coming out ...
mysteriously ... there. I have eagle-eyed ... I saw him ... he was. I carried a revolver in his
pocket. Why? If he had fired six shots you have, none would have given my enemy. I do not shoot, and
I also shook his hand. All I was convulsive.

"Also, why not confess? I think I would not be able to kill him, but finding him asleep and could put
at close range the gun barrel in his temples.

"I do not understand now but one thing. I can not bear my inexhaustible love. I can not bear the
ridiculous that I noticed. To the poetry of great pain can not draw on me because I laugh
myself from my pain and I find him funny.

"I have no other recourse, if I die no good, they look way to die soon.

"Forgive this long relief. Sorry this neat card. Be the last. Goodbye. "

Paco Ramírez was a man of some clear illustration and understanding, but he still had healthier
than clear, he was as healthy as his body was that of an athlete. Loved Paco Don Braulio,
though who else had ever thrown up ready for a shift of that had ways of thinking that he
described as tortuous and that it should be subjected to the most convoluted and unique feelings.

Just
read the letter, believed that Braulio was crazy. I could not believe the lack of Dona Beatriz:
very good opinion of her. Imagined the extent that the person who walked jealous Braulio was
the Count, who Beatriz spoke in his letter.

Would be like, Paco feared a catastrophe. Braulio thought that, or he would die, or was about
to kill, or would be Leganés. To avoid this, if it was time, he immediately
en route to Madrid.

Braulio had given no sign, but he would find. If you did not come
to save him, would avenge him.

Paco was with no metaphysical or discreteos. No thought or treason or murder in duels of every ceremony.
Only thought to get the love and the soul of Condesito of her lively body punches and kicks.

With
such good intentions, also anxious to see his Inesita, and hoping to woo and fetch the scene,
thirty-two hours is not sane to have received and read lamentable letter from her desperate
friend, Paco came to this heroic and crowned villa, and without shake
even the dust of the road, after leaving the valise in a guest house
and installed, taking fourth in her, she went to the home of two beautiful
sisters.

XX

As she Paco Ramírez to that household but hurriedly, offered to imagination
more vividly the difficulties of the interview should have.

In the letter from Don Braulio paragraphs remembered more sinister
and ominous, and provided some Unfortunately.

So he had noticed a contradiction in the letter that gave him so much suspect. Don Braulio
confessed at first, as was true that never used or had weapons, and towards the end of the letter
spoke of a revolver in his pocket. Paco Ramírez Don Braulio was clear that he had bought or
acquired in those days, after the night he was in hiding at home.

Why the acquisition? What did make his hapless friend?

Paco was sure that Don Braulio not kill nor his wife nor his rival,
but was afraid of attempting his own life, and thought to avenge killing
Condesito.

Paco was so strong, so calm, and was so confident that nothing seemed
easier.

As Dona Beatriz, Paco loved her like a sister and respected as a superior
being, where, but believe you are afflicted much blamed, as we believed
it was ready to forgive the guilt.

At this point understood and applauded and even blessed the weakness or Don Braulio tenderness.
What is not explained is that Don Braulio not try to revenge Condesito
of any way to be.

In the meantime, what would he do, what to say at Dona Beatriz?

After reflection, form various plans and mentally composing several
speeches, he determined to be guided by the inspiration of the moment
and improvise everything.

So it came to Don Braulio. He climbed the stairs two by two and pulled the cord of bell. It
was nine o'clock.

Then they opened, with that frankness and readiness with which the poor are usually open.

Barely had time to see who would open. It was found wrapped around her arms clasped him and
overwhelmed by a mouth covered her face with a flood of sound kisses.

- Good God, man! "- Said after the housekeeper Teresa, who was kissed -. How has embarnecido
in these three years! Give glory to see you: you made a real boy.

But tell me, and Don Braulio? Does it come with you?

What have you done on site? Why not write? Beatriz is the heart in her mouth.

- I want to see.

"I can see it? - Paco said.

- Right now. Sign.

Do you bring news of Don Braulio?

- Yes.

- Well, come.

- Is Agnes
with her sister?

- Inés not up yet.

- Best - Paco said -.

I need to see Beatriz alone - added between his teeth.

Before the end of muttering the phrase, before I entered the sitting
room of Dona Beatriz, it appeared in the lobby, and friendly and tightly
grasping the hands of Paco between over and said:

- What is this?

What Braulio? Where?

How can you not come? I am feeling very uneasy. What happens, God? What happens?

So saying, both came into the room. He loves Teresa went after them.

- Let us, Teresa.

Then will come.

I have to talk to Beatrice - Paco said.

This mystery seemed to increase the shock of the pretty girl.

He loves Teresa left the room grumbling.

Paco and Betty alone and said this:

- What mysteries are yours?

What do you say? Speech. Anything is better than the anxiety, that doubt that I have. My bad
not horrible, my misfortune will not be deeper actually what I pretend
and fantasy.

Speech. Where is my husband? What did it?

Why not come in your company?

- Your husband has gone to the scene. Evil can come with me.

Your husband has left Madrid. Here it is. Here I come to fetch him.

- It is impossible. Braulio never lies. Braulio said he was going to see. We will have occurred
some misfortune on the road. Be sick, dead, perhaps in some people's way. Braulio was to see. Braulio
not deceived me.

Paco Ramirez, who was not a man much given to circumlocution and rodeos, and also thought it
was urgent and essential to a prompt explanation, then said:

- Braulio has deceived you because you thought you fooled.

- No way - said Beatriz, red blood rising to her cheeks -. Who has invented this infamy? Who
said this madness?

- The same Braulio.

- How? When? Where you've seen?

- I have not seen. I received a letter from him.

- Give it to me. I read it.

- Will you have courage to read it?

- God give me courage for all. You give me the letter.

Paco still hesitated.

- Give me the letter - again said Beatriz.

- You shall - Paco said - but before I demand of you one thing.

-
Say, calls soon.

- You will respond honestly to what you ask, you
will declare the naked truth: not as if in answer to your brother,
but as if in answer to your own conscience as if you were in the court
of the Lord and He who will be questioned.

- Question.

Not aside. Do not stain my lips lies.

- Do you love Braulio?

- With all my heart.

- Braulio you ugly and beautiful. Braulio is old ... Do you love love?

- Braulio's soul is beautiful, the soul is immortal Braulio young. Yes, I love him love.

- Have you ever loved another man?

- Never.

- Look carefully at the bottom of your soul. Beatrice, have you ever loved another man?

- Just understand what I want to say, but not to stay a qualm. I to peer into the deepest abyss
of my mind, I will look there and make my patent most hidden thoughts, ideas vague and confusing
that I did not realize until I now.

- Say, Beatrice.

- I say I never loved but to love my husband I do not think having failed once, or with the
most fleeting thought, or the more ephemeral desire bastard.

- Is it true what you say? Do not you accuse the consciousness of the child missing?

- How do I declare impeccable? Paco, yes, conscience accuses me, but it haunts me; give me the
letter, we end. What interrogation! What a cruel delay! Have you come to kill me?

- No, Beatriz.

Tell me, however, what you are accused of consciousness?

- I'm vain, I admit. Now that I sense a misfortune, I see it is sin that I I did not think it
was.

I examine myself, I judge and condemn me. Look, Paco: I have believed a man I loved, and though
not paid for his love, I was pleased and proud that I love me. His love was in such a way restrained
by the respect that was never in words. I guess, did not see him. And I guess, not passion
itself had the lowest impurity but as ethereal feeling, immaculate, that is not love, nor
friendship, which should not be name, which is unspeakable in every language on earth, that
if you name must be in sky. What? Vanity of women.

Novels ridiculous that we forged in the imagination and certainly have no reality whatsoever. The
man who obeys me well, the man and me seen and admired, is the wisest,
the most elegant of the aristocracy of Madrid, is held for their gracious
presence, her grace, courage and even their sexual conquests.

Seeing him so exhausted me, seeing what he delighted in hearing me
talk, which celebrated my talent, which is struggling to please me
and because I had it the best concept, not deny it, my wife was very
proud of flattered.

I judged worth more, when he had inspired affection noble man.

My own vanity I moved my turn to be a concept, perhaps exaggerated,
of all his personal belongings.

The man, who also, in my opinion, I understand, was worth much more to my eyes. Gratitude to
this man in my moments of modesty, when I thought I owed it all to
my own merit, filled my heart.

Never, however, I have loved. Every night for months, talked to him
more than hours in a low voice.

Praises me, I said a thousand polite returns, but I love talking. Among he and I are tacitly these
extraordinary relationships.

Is this sin? Ah! I think yes. Now I think so. Heart tells me. Braulio is jealous. But, my God,
why did not I tell you?

Why has not complained?

I would have apologized.

I would have thousand times that she loved him. I have renewed my
vows.

I would have been terminated the insane poetry, dream story that
only satisfy my vanity.

But no: Braulio right, Braulio is delicate.

A husband should not be jealous. Should not tell his wife that suspected. It would be an indignity,
a shame he can not.

And I, stupid, blind, I have not until now understood the danger
and absurdity of my behavior.

Who knows? Maybe slanderers have understood everything in the worst way. Maybe you have besmirched
my honor and my husband's. Maybe you have had within the accuse cruelty.

Come on, Paco, you know everything.

Do not kill me. Give me the letter. Pronto! Give me the letter.

Paco, without a word, not knowing what to think of everything, not
daring to believe Beatriz lied, failed to explain how they lied so
well, and remembering, however, that the letter was evidence Braulio
almost obvious that Beatrice was guilty, he gave Finally the letter.

Beatriz unfolded it eagerly, and did not read it, devoured it.

Do not interrupted the reading, not with a sigh, nor a cry nor a complaint.

It put alternately red and pale. Prevailed after deathly pallor. Big tears sprang from the
beautiful black eyes of Beatrice and slid down her cheeks.

The silence was complete. You could count the violent beating of the heart of Beatrice and Paco
heart.

Another woman, guilty or not guilty, had pretended to faint, had fainted
in earnest or done ends with tears, with groans and cries even with
maybe.

Beatriz, read the letter, known and all the misfortune of her husband
and his, if that her husband felt, contained all vehement explosion
of pain, and Paco told this way:

- I acknowledge my offense.

I deny my foolish conceit, my desire to look, my desire light to
be admired, but not enough to explain all this misery.

I am a victim an infernal plot, a series of fatal coincidences. Who
knows, God?

Who knows?

But it is very hard, it's awful, is cruel punishment that falls on
my head.

Why did not kill me? Why did he have mercy on me? I had awakened to feel hurt. I have forgiven.
What do I say ... I have forgiven?

I would have apologized and have been happy to die in his arms. How I love! This love itself
is worth. In this love itself I have encryption you should always my pride. Why do I have
neglected to lose perhaps I fainted, mad, giddy for a paltry vanity?

And he kissed me while I slept instead of killing me, like I really
deserved.

He came to stab me and gave me kisses of love, and wept with tenderness, and found me I looked
beautiful and ecstatic. Paco, brother mine, run, go to the Ministry, is everywhere, seek him, tell
him I love him, bring him to my live arms, give it back to forgive me. What will I do, my
Jesus?

What shall I do? I'm about to leave to pick myself crazy.

I only fear that stops are over the scandal and shame. Brother, for pity's sake, run, looking
for Braulio. I fear, I tremble for his life.

What horror!

The death has not given me: he kissed me, believing himself mortally
offended.

And in return so much love, I'll kill him.

Paco was dumb, ecstatic, full of wonder, his mouth open, not knowing what to think or what to
say.

Beatrice, with more agitation, upset, impatient with the immobility
of Paco, continued to thus:

- Do not stop: flies, looking for Braulio.

It'll kill you if you take too. Tell him I love him soon, idolize you, that your kiss is worth more
than all the satisfaction and pride, that his love I love, that divine
beauty of his soul for me to go beyond the beauty of the other God's
creatures.

That I will see her again, heavens! That I throw at her feet and ask forgiveness a thousand
times! That I will pay the kiss he gave me sleeping, blowing my soul infusing into his with
an everlasting kiss ... infinite!

Beatriz While he spoke, Paco was pushing out of the parlor, he was throwing to shove of the house.

Already in the anteroom, Beatriz said:

- Go to the Ministry, go to the police, Braulio seeks by all means, do not stop.
Paco came at the end of his tongue, and replied:

- Be still, Beatriz,
I find. Soon I'll be back here. Never doubt that I will bring me.
Have faith in the goodness of God.

That said, opened the door, left
the room and rushed down the stairs.

Doña Beatriz hesitating and
stumbling back to the room. He could no longer stand. Sank down on
the couch.

After a moment of quiet and silence, broke into sobs and
moans and poured a sea tears.

Then came the love Teresa.

- What
ails you, child? Why are you crying?

- Let me, love, let me - replied
Dona Beatriz -. I am the most unfortunate of women.

He loves Teresa
insisted in vain on the same or similar questions.

Beatrice did not
answer but asking him to leave her.

Tired, then, and even a little
bite of that secrecy with which it is demure Beatrix, Teresa loves
left the room and went to bed and Ines.

- Girls - said - do not you
wake up today?

Ines, still half asleep, but was open and the wood
of the window, and sun flooded his room, sat up a little and answered:

-
Well, what time is it?

- The nine and a half, about ten o'clock.
Is plenty of time to get up. It is also necessary to get up. Big news.
Paco Ramírez has come.

- With my brother? - Asked Agnes.

- Without
your brother - said the housekeeper.

- Where is? Have you stayed
in place? Why not come?

- I do not know. Just know that your sister
is crying as I have never seen mourn. It has certainly some great
misfortune. Beatrice wanted to tell me anything, but something very
serious happens and pitiful. Get up, daughter. Go to console your
sister and know the cause of your pain.

Inesita jumped out of bed
full of fright. He put on a gown, without considering more carefully,
by precipitation, and ran into the parlor, where Beatrice was.

XXI

-
What are you, sister? Why are you crying? - Asked Inesita fondly just
entered the parlor and saw so distraught Beatrice.

As Beatrice and
he told her not continue crying, Inesita bent over the couch where
Beatriz was sealed and returned to ask the same questions, along with
kisses and caresses.

Beatriz could no longer resist, was also a need
to unburden his heart, and joining Agnes taking her hand, said with
a sigh:

- What I'm miserable, Ines!

- What? - Broke it.

- That's
my fault Braulio is jealous and has left home and may not return.

-
And who is jealous?

- Is jealous of the Count of Alhedín.

- What
a blunder! - Said Ines -. Why, do not see clearly that the Count is
not for you but than mere friendship?

- That's not - candidly said
Beatrice, which, amid all Don Braulio loving, full startle him, and
repented of his intimacy with the Count could not settle the Count
was not in love with her.

- That does not, I think the Count loves
me, but I have never ever loved.

- Unique idea of ​​Conde you, sister.
Believe me, men like him do not love without being loved. The Count
makes you different, you can see, you is cute and nice and quiet,
so speak to you. Since it is very gallantly, you two hundred thousand
compliments, but there is a distance love infinite.

- Who says you
have not saved it that far? - Asked Beatrice.

- Nobody says it to
me - said Agnes - but I guess. In any case, it is best not love you.
Have you ever you love him?

- No.

- Well then, what the victim wanted?

-
I did not want ... or did not love ... here was not what I wanted,
but what was. The Count was a regular with me, and I confess, I delighted
in their attentions. Did not love him, but felt a satisfaction of
self-esteem to believe me loved by him. This me lost.

- Come on,
sister, relax. No one is lost for so little. If your husband is jealous,
with explain that there is no reason to have them, you're all finished.

-
And how do I explain? Where can I see him? Have I not said that it
was and never come back? Perhaps be killed.

- Such things tell me
that you begin to put in care, although I am not of those who drown
in a little water. Braulio is suspicious and captious; Braulio adores
you; Braulio's self, in the depths of the soul, the estimate should
be noble, but their outer garments no good idea. His modesty at this
point beyond the limits of humility and ray distrust. Although I love,
but has always believed in your love, generally unfavorable opinion
for women, believes that luxury, brilliance, elegance and high position
dazzle us.

- And do not think evil. I have been amazed, not to stop
loving Braulio and love another, but to indulge in another love without
paying.

- Look, sister, is not time for recriminations. If you've
done wrong please you in this course love, and repentance is late
and sterile. Seek cure for your light. 

Causome really hurts the state of this good man, but there was another reason, or more naive,
and convinced me that this was most unfortunate that he was more understanding, and was more
sensitive.

That same day visit to his old neighbor, and asked if they had any sorry once for not knowing
it was his soul, and not even understand my question. Not a moment all his life had reflected
in one of the points that both tormented the bellows, believed to his whole soul in the transformation
of Vishnu, and had for the most fortunate woman, so Quando Quando
to have water in the Ganges to bathe.

Amazed at the happiness of this poor woman, I turned to see with my philosopher, and I said
to him:? No you have embarrassment of your misery, when the door of your house is an old automaton
which in no plan, and lives so happy?

Reason you have, I replied, and I said a hundred times for me, it would be very happy if you were
foolish enough my neighbor, but I would not enjoy such happiness.

But suddenly I got this reply from bellows, all quanto first I had said, and examining my own,
I actually did not want me to be happy in exchange for being a fool. Proposed For several
philosophers, and all were in my opinion. However, he said to myself, rarely contradiction is
to think so, because at the end what matters is being happy, and nothing mounts have understanding,
or being stupid. But I say, those who live satisfied with their lot but certain are satisfied
that they live, and those who run that are not run well. Then thing is clear, I added, you should
choose not to have a shred of reason, if anything helps the reason
for our unhappiness. Everyone was of my own opinion, but none had
to wanted to enter the adjustment of becoming a fool for being happy.
From this I that if we very fond of happiness, but we still appreciate
the reason. Her eyes were bright, her cheeks red and tried in vain dress with a dignified
and serious continent's deep emotion that seized. Which the accompanied, married all the cherished
endlessly, passing his hand through his hair, giving pat on the cheek, taking her hands and occasionally
leaning over to print a kiss on her forehead with the condescending, half tender, half ironic,
that the veterans contemplate marriage to the fledgling. No one of those that when approaching a girlfriend
not vibrate in your chest feel the echo of distant music and some divine comes to her lips like
honey from the remote moon, but it comes oh! with some years left bitterish matrimonial prose.
In every married woman is a disillusioned poet of his muse. Hence the baironiana smile on
your face to see the joy that burns in the eyes of a bride.

Emilita character had changed in a quarter of an hour.

All playful and pert that had shown until then, now appeared serious and brochette. Discoursed
wisely with midwives, their partners, about the installation of the pantry, domestic service
all considered in terrible decline, the price of meat. So old that had done in this quarter of
an hour, which surprised not to see and a strand of silver in her hair gold.

In contrast to her sisters, strange contrast, I had taken some years
off since the lower take up office.

Had regressed to childhood. As creatures eager to air and light to grow, the forest lanzáronse
three, encouraging their loud screams and innocent silence and peace that reigned there. Virgen
del Amparo what they jumped, they laughed at the mischief that took place in those short little
crazy! To indulge in innocent games, which required that they had experienced recoil Suddenly,
the blankets are removed, leaving the hair loose, pull the gloves, fan, the umbrella, anything that
might symbolize youth and joyful stay with attributes adolescence. Not only do they float on your
back your hair angelic, but clock shed, bracelets and rings that deliver to his dad, hanging
before his neck to make a thousand strokes as simple and passionate girls who were, done and observing
that some officers of the battalion worthy of the contemplation Pontevedra, fleeing blushing
and confused, we include skirts with pins to leave open the foot and leg, and the innocence
of his heart run away, always fleeing through the woods forward, dodging and nymphs of Diana
the burning eyes of the officers.

And when they reach a secluded and lonely where shadows thicken, which fail worldly noises nor penetrate
the malicious eyes of men, called with cries of joy, like birds of
God, her friends, invite them to come and enjoy this nice free security
where they can show their thanks and be safe recreation surprised.

Then a proposed play the string and the other access clapping his hands. Jovita is the first.
Jump, jump until it is exhausted and is dropped on the grass touching his heart, throbbing
with the fatigue, not the insane turmoil youthful lusts. Then jump another, then another and
another until they all tend lifeless but smiling, reflecting on their sweaty cheeks and his
eyes narrowed the sweet joy escaping from an innocent chest. And as lie intends to play "the
kite that dan - onion with the bread. "What a laugh! What merriment! The sleeping forest resounds
with silvery voices of those beautiful and gentle creatures! Tired of this game spread for
a moment.
 The Euphrates and Tigris, winding and also injured by lightning the sun
shimmered in waves, resembled two gold ribbons melt forming a loop.

The beaters had gone ahead to announce my arrival. Suddenly we saw up in the broad, fertile plain
between the orchards, gardens and green woods, where it was open the road, a white cloud which
went bigger. Then we saw a dark stain that moving towards us. Soon after came at a run one of my
scouts told me that Nanar approached to greet me with large party. In this dark spot had enlarged
exceedingly, and began to hear distinctly the sound of musical instruments, the neighing of
horses and the clatter of weapons. We note, finally, the glow of gold and silver, luxury clothes
and the magnificence of those who came to greet us.

So that the driver did goad the horses, and soon I was near the King Nanar that palanquí came in
a magnificent bamboo, sandalwood, pearl and sustained by twelve handsome
young men.

The King and I got out of the palanquin of the car, and we welcome and embrace each other with mutual
cordiality.

King's robe was of cloth of gold, embroidered with multicolored silk.
The embroidery is represented all the flowers of the field and every
bird of the air and all the stars of the ether. Wearing King no less
wonderful a tiara, bangles and bracelets, and earrings two round pearls
each size of a quail egg. 

Was stunned. For the news she was so new, so surprising, that for a moment was staring dumbfounded
at her friend as if he had not heard. In the stupor that caused him, did not hear the first words
of Paco. Only took over at the conclusion that he was praising with Heat the beauty of the girl.

-
Have someone to take - murmured the queen of Sierra with the same
evil intent .-- It see ... his mother ... And her father!

... His father falls handsome.

Fernanda, chopped suddenly by vivid curiosity, a curiosity that made her insane agitated and
anxious without knowing why, he leaned over to Maria Josefa, and thrusting the mouth by his
ear, asked in an agitated voice:

- But who is your father?

The maid turned to her and planted a glance which shone through with
the surprise the same indulgence compassionate.

- But do you really
do not know ...

She made negative.

And at the same time he was overcome with terrible emotion. A cold air flow through his inner
self suddenly. He was pale, yet Josefa Maria's lips, as if they expect health or death. It
warned While his confusion, and said after looking at her intently for a moment:

- No I tell you ... Why? ... Perhaps it is all a calumny.

Fernanda recovered instantly.

- Okay - said with a gesture of disdain .-- Cálleselo.

After all, did for me What do I care all that?

The gesture struck the maid, who hastened to say with a keen smile

-
Well, just because you care is so afraid to tell you.

- I do not
understand ...

Maria Josefa leaned forward and said

- Because they
say that the child's father is Luis.

As soon as he felt the stab, Fernanda was unmoved and asked casually:

-
What Luis?

- Earl, girl.

- Why do I have to import to me that Luis
is the father?

 

Then, the seat moves Berne surrounded by the Aare peninsula shaped so that any point on the
edge of the city is at the bottom of the beautiful valley where where they fight in a deep bed
of crystal clear blue waves river, dominated by walls vegetables. Berne height above the Aar
is 76 feet, taken at the Observatory while the narrow valley bottom is 507 meters above sea level.
If tends around the view from the top of the Cathedral or the Centre, not only records the charming
region of the plains, extending in all directions, but too, and this is more interesting for
its majesty and beauty, superb snow chain Oberland, from the southern heights Stockhorn (2,356
met.) to oriental of Wetterhorn (3,718 met.) past a cordon of shining giants, such as Jungfrau,
measuring 4.175 meters in elevation, and Finsteraarhorn still higher. This show, provided thus
far and the front, a grandeur that enchants and full the soul of admiration and devotion, and
that makes the contrast with the plains the valley of the Aar, complete one of the most sublime
panoramas that continental Europe can offer. HOWEVER, there is something superior to such magnificence,
as a few days after we Used to admire from the top of Mount Righi.

The first thing that attracts attention when crossing the main streets of Bern, elegant, clean
and very lively in general, is the curious structure of their old
arch on the gran via central and other adjacent.

Almost everything the city has the most curious and characteristic is meeting in the middle. Almost
all Eastern rotate parallel streets to west in the direction of the peninsula, usually cut
at right angles, and All buildings have many similarities in shape and brown color of its stones.
All the streets are lined pipes covered by public sources that provide water abundant and pure,
and those sources are all a character that makes them very curious by the figures of old men
and wild beasts represent. The great central street interesting aspects is low: there all
the rest homes or are moving over large and dark masonry arches or very massive bastions,
about eight feet in latitude and very low, where all the world to cover the sun and rain.
This is where all bonded trade shops, exhibiting disorder funny but all objects Bern industry notables.
Itself serves as the street market on certain days, and there found almost all the hotels or inns
in the city, there is a social movement which abounds in interesting, colorful and varied.
 

Navigation had made a most happy, and his ship was like, anchored in the harbor, loaded tin, amber,
iron, skins of ermine and beaver, and other valuables that he had gone for the coast of France,
England and other regions of Northern Europe where only the Phoenicians ventured to arrive at
that time.

Adherbal Tyre was planning to return soon, but first had to take in
Malaga copper, wine, quicksilver and gold dust from the sands of our
rivers, instead leaving behind some of its cargo.

Walking one day along the quay to Echeloría Adherbal saw, and seeing her and swore by Melcart
Ashtoreth as it were by Hercules and Venus, who had never seen more beautiful creature and
salt. Desire was to suddenly reached the girl and slipped the turkey, that is, to say no ceremony,
her daring thoughts but Mutileder was beside her, looking suspicious
everywhere, with the beard on the shoulder, distrustful and hostile
attitude, and brandishing a huge and fierce club.

Prudence restrained the impulses of the Phoenician navy.

It was enough to see a glancing blow to Mutileder bear was able to wear yourself out to any
of a club, if he were to break down a bit with the beautiful and candid Echeloría.

Adherbal, as said, was wise, but he was also stubborn, enterprising and cunning. Echeloría
it was not a fleeting impression and light, but deep and durable.

So he found out who he was and where he lived, and got it with discretion and modesty.

Two or three times was then surreptitiously Churriana horse, and returned to see the child, being
captive to its unique charm.

Finally, through the clever people of the country, it was reported Echeloría life, he knew I
was going to marry Mutileder, and no detail was that you fail to
take full news.

These elements formed Adherbal a diabolical plan,
which went right, as unfortunately go wrong almost every diabolical
plans.

One early morning the ship weighed anchor and set sail from
the port of Malaga, after saying goodbye kick him. Out port and the
ship, he was very near the coast to the west, tacking to win best
wind. Because they do not renege on our holy faith and go to the pains of hell, even Help them with
your charity and five paternosters and five Hail Marys, to come out of captivity. And yet also
take advantage for the parents and brothers and relatives you have in Purgatory, as you will see
in this holy bull. "

As the people saw them throw ANSI as something that was for nothing and be coming from the hand
of God, they took more take, even for children from the cradle and all its defunct, having from
children to the lowliest servant, counting on their fingers. Vimon in such haste, as I aínas
I'd just break a poor old coat he had, so that VM certify that in little more than an hour
was no bull in the panniers, and it was necessary go to the inn for
more.

Finished taking all my master said from the pulpit to his clerk and the council that rise and, to be known
who were the ones to enjoy the holy indulgences and pardons of the holy bull, and that he give
a good account of who had sent him, were written. And then they all very willingly said they
had taken, having ordered the children and servants and the deceased. Made his inventory, he
asked the mayors to charity, because he had to do elsewhere, ordered the clerk to give him
authority to inventory and memory of those who were there, which he said the clerk, were more
than two thousand. Done this, he was dismissed with much peace and love, and so they patros
us of this place, and even before that we left, he was asked by the curate and the aldermen if Bull
profit the infants who were in the womb, to which he replied that according to letters he had
studied not, they might have to ask doctors older than him, and that
this was what I felt about this business.

ANSI E we departed, leaving all very happy with the good business. My master said to the bailiff
and clerk:

"What do you think, as these villains, that just say" old Christians are "without charities, think to be
saved without compromising any of their holdings? Well, for the life of graduate Pascasio Gómez,
which expense they'll more than ten captives. "

And thus we went to another place at that end of Toledo, to the Channel, said, where others
encounter's overwhelming to take bulls. Made my master and the others who were going our proceedings,
two parties that were there had not been thrown thirty bulls. Seen by my master the great destruction
and the great expense he had, (and) the crafty ardideza my master had to make spent with his bulls,
was that this day DIJA high mass, and after finishing the sermon and returned to the altar, took
a cross that brought a little more than an inch, and a brazier of
fire above the altar they had, which had brought to warm his hands
because it was great cold, put him behind the missal without anyone
looking into this and there without saying anything he put the cross
above the fire.

And, because the Mass was over and tossed the blessing, he took it with a handkerchief, tightly
wrapped the cross in his right hand and the other the bull, and so they got to the season
step of the altar, where he was kissing the cross, and beckoned them to come to worship the
cross.

And thus came the first mayor and the elders of the place, coming
one to one as used.

The first that came, it was a old mayor, although he gave kiss rather
delicate cross is burned their faces and quickly took off.

Seeing this my master said to him:

"Step, I am, Mr. Mayor! Miracle!"

And thus another seven or eight, and they all said:
"Step, gentlemen! Miracle!"

When he saw that the rostriquemados
enough to witness the miracle, did not want to give more to kiss.
Climbed up to the altar and said wonderful things there, saying that
the low charity that was in them had God allowed this miracle and
that cross was to be taken to the holy church of his diocese, that
the little charity that the people had, the cross burning. I was so
fast that there was in taking the bull, not enough two notaries neither
the clerics nor sacristanes writing.  Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, and Horace; and among the moderns, Boileau, Corneille,
Pope, and Dryden, are at least instances of genius not being destroyed by attention or subjection
to rules and science. Contol is beautiful with the most naive and tender expression of damage it
to a guy who had not, with that device had been deprived of a flow that never had possessed,
and fears that caused his outbursts.