Pont itself is on the river, but whereas it is ten minutes' walk from Quartes by dry land,
it is six weary kilometres by water.  We left our bags at the inn, and walked to our canoes
through the wet orchards unencumbered.  Some of the children were there to see us off, but
we were no longer the mysterious beings of the night before.  A departure is much less romantic
than an unexplained arrival in the golden evening.  Although we might be greatly taken at a
ghost's first appearance, we should behold him vanish with comparative equanimity.

The good folk of the inn at Pont, when we called there for the bags, were overcome with marvelling.
At sight of these two dainty little boats, with a fluttering Union Jack on each, and all the
varnish shining from the sponge, they began to perceive that they had entertained angels unawares.
The landlady stood upon the bridge, probably lamenting she had charged so little; the son ran
to and fro, and called out the neighbours to enjoy the sight; and we paddled away from quite
a crowd of wrapt observers.  These gentlemen pedlars, indeed!  Now you see their quality too late.

And surely of all smells in the world, the smell of many trees is the sweetest and most fortifying.
The sea has a rude, pistolling sort of odour, that takes you in the nostrils like snuff, and
carries with it a fine sentiment of open water and tall ships; but the smell of a forest, which
comes nearest to this in tonic quality, surpasses it by many degrees in the quality of softness.
Again, the smell of the sea has little variety, but the smell of a forest is infinitely changeful;
it varies with the hour of the day, not in strength merely, but in character; and the different
sorts of trees, as you go from one zone of the wood to another, seem to live among different
kinds of atmosphere.  Usually the resin of the fir predominates.  But some woods are more coquettish
in their habits; and the breath of the forest of Mormal, as it came aboard upon us that showery
afternoon, was perfumed with nothing less delicate than sweetbrier.  Heine wished to lie like
Merlin under the oaks of Broceliande.  I should not be satisfied with one tree; but if the
wood grew together like a banyan grove, I would be buried under the tap-root of the whole;
my parts should circulate from oak to oak; and my consciousness should be diffused abroad in
all the forest, and give a common heart to that assembly of green spires, so that it also might
rejoice in its own loveliness and dignity.  I think I feel a thousand squirrels leaping from
bough to bough in my vast mausoleum; and the birds and the winds merrily coursing over its
uneven, leafy surface.

Alas! the forest of Mormal is only a little bit of a wood, and it was but for a little way
that we skirted by its boundaries.  And the rest of the time the rain kept coming in squirts
and the wind in squalls, until one's heart grew weary of such fitful, scolding weather.  It
was odd how the showers began when we had to carry the boats over a lock, and must expose our
legs.  They always did. This is a sort of thing that readily begets a personal feeling against
nature.  There seems no reason why the shower should not come five minutes before or five minutes
after, unless you suppose an intention to affront you.  The Cigarette had a mackintosh which
put him more or less above these contrarieties.  But I had to bear the brunt uncovered.  I
began to remember that nature was a woman. My companion, in a rosier temper, listened with
great satisfaction to my Jeremiads, and ironically concurred.  He instanced, as a cognate matter,
the action of the tides, 'which,' said he, 'was altogether designed for the confusion of canoeists,
except in so far as it was calculated to minister to a barren vanity on the part of the moon.'

At the last lock, some little way out of Landrecies, I refused to go any farther; and sat in
a drift of rain by the side of the bank, to have a reviving pipe.  A vivacious old man, whom
I take to have been the devil, drew near and questioned me about our journey.  In the fulness
of my heart, I laid bare our plans before him.  He said it was the silliest enterprise that
ever he heard of.  Why, did I not know, he asked me, that it was nothing but locks, locks,
locks, the whole way? not to mention that, at this season of the year, we should find the Oise
quite dry?  'Get into a train, my little young man,' said he, I and go you away home to your
parents.'  I was so astounded at the man's malice, that I could only stare at him in silence.
A tree would never have spoken to me like this.  At last I got out with some words.  We had
come from Antwerp already, I told him, which was a good long way; and we should do the rest
in spite of him.  Yes, I said, if there were no other reason, I would do it now, just because
he had dared to say we could not.  The pleasant old gentleman looked at me sneeringly, made
an allusion to my canoe, and marched of, waggling his head.

I was still inwardly fuming, when up came a pair of young fellows, who imagined I was the Cigarette's
servant, on a comparison, I suppose, of my bare jersey with the other's mackintosh, and asked
me many questions about my place and my master's character.  I said he was a good enough fellow,
but had this absurd voyage on the head.  'O no, no,' said one, 'you must not say that; it is
not absurd; it is very courageous of him.'  I believe these were a couple of angels sent to
give me heart again.  It was truly fortifying to reproduce all the old man's insinuations,
as if they were original to me in my character of a malcontent footman, and have them brushed
away like so many flies by these admirable young men.

When I recounted this affair to the Cigarette, 'They must have a curious idea of how English
servants behave,' says he dryly, 'for you treated me like a brute beast at the lock.'

I was a good deal mortified; but my temper had suffered, it is a fact.

AT LANDRECIES

At Landrecies the rain still fell and the wind still blew; but we found a double-bedded room
with plenty of furniture, real water- jugs with real water in them, and dinner:  a real dinner,
not innocent of real wine.  After having been a pedlar for one night, and a butt for the elements
during the whole of the next day, these comfortable circumstances fell on my heart like sunshine.
There was an English fruiterer at dinner, travelling with a Belgian fruiterer; in the evening
at the cafe, we watched our compatriot drop a good deal of money at corks; and I don't know
why, but this pleased us.

It turned out we were to see more of Landrecies than we expected; for the weather next day
was simply bedlamite.  It is not the place one would have chosen for a day's rest; for it consists
almost entirely of fortifications.  Within the ramparts, a few blocks of houses, a long row
of barracks, and a church, figure, with what countenance they may, as the town.  There seems
to be no trade; and a shopkeeper from whom I bought a sixpenny flint-and-steel, was so much
affected that he filled my pockets with spare flints into the bargain.  The only public buildings
that had any interest for us were the hotel and the cafe.  But we visited the church.  There
lies Marshal Clarke.  But as neither of us had ever heard of that military hero, we bore the
associations of the spot with fortitude.  But in a shadow of a town like Landrecies, with little
else moving, these points of war made a proportionate commotion. Indeed, they were the only
things to remember.  It was just the place to hear the round going by at night in the darkness,
with the solid tramp of men marching, and the startling reverberations of the drum.  It reminded
you, that even this place was a point in the great warfaring system of Europe, and might on
some future day be ringed about with cannon smoke and thunder, and make itself a name among
strong towns.

The drum, at any rate, from its martial voice and notable physiological effect, nay, even from
its cumbrous and comical shape, stands alone among the instruments of noise.  And if it be
true, as I have heard it said, that drums are covered with asses' skin, what a picturesque
irony is there in that!  As if this long- suffering animal's hide had not been sufficiently
belaboured during life, now by Lyonnese costermongers, now by presumptuous Hebrew prophets,
it must be stripped from his poor hinder quarters after death, stretched on a drum, and beaten
night after night round the streets of every garrison town in Europe.  And up the heights of
Alma and Spicheren, and wherever death has his red flag a-flying, and sounds his own potent
tuck upon the cannons, there also must the drummer-boy, hurrying with white face over fallen
comrades, batter and bemaul this slip of skin from the loins of peaceable donkeys.

Generally a man is never more uselessly employed than when he is at this trick of bastinadoing
asses' hide.  We know what effect it has in life, and how your dull ass will not mend his pace
with beating. But in this state of mummy and melancholy survival of itself, when the hollow
skin reverberates to the drummer's wrist, and each dub- a-dub goes direct to a man's heart,
and puts madness there, and that disposition of the pulses which we, in our big way of talking,
nickname Heroism:- is there not something in the nature of a revenge upon the donkey's persecutors?
Of old, he might say, you drubbed me up hill and down dale, and I must endure; but now that
I am dead, those dull thwacks that were scarcely audible in country lanes, have become stirring
music in front of the brigade; and for every blow that you lay on my old greatcoat, you will
see a comrade stumble and fall.

Not long after the drums had passed the cafe, the Cigarette and the Arethusa began to grow
sleepy, and set out for the hotel, which was only a door or two away.  But although we had
been somewhat indifferent to Landrecies, Landrecies had not been indifferent to us.  All day,
we learned, people had been running out between the squalls to visit our two boats.  Hundreds
of persons, so said report, although it fitted ill with our idea of the town--hundreds of persons
had inspected them where they lay in a coal-shed.  We were becoming lions in Landrecies, who
had been only pedlars the night before in Pont.

And now, when we left the cafe, we were pursued and overtaken at the hotel door by no less
a person than the Juge de Paix:  a functionary, as far as I can make out, of the character
of a Scots Sheriff-Substitute.  He gave us his card and invited us to sup with him on the spot,
very neatly, very gracefully, as Frenchmen can do these things.  It was for the credit of Landrecies,
said he; and although we knew very well how little credit we could do the place, we must have
been churlish fellows to refuse an invitation so politely introduced.

The house of the Judge was close by; it was a well-appointed bachelor's establishment, with
a curious collection of old brass warming-pans upon the walls.  Some of these were most elaborately
carved.  It seemed a picturesque idea for a collector.  You could not help thinking how many
night-caps had wagged over these warming-pans in past generations; what jests may have been
made, and kisses taken, while they were in service; and how often they had been uselessly paraded
in the bed of death.  If they could only speak, at what absurd, indecorous, and tragical scenes
had they not been present!

The wine was excellent.  When we made the Judge our compliments upon a bottle, 'I do not give
it you as my worst,' said he.  I wonder when Englishmen will learn these hospitable graces.
They are worth learning; they set off life, and make ordinary moments ornamental.

There were two other Landrecienses present.  One was the collector of something or other, I
forget what; the other, we were told, was the principal notary of the place.  So it happened
that we all five more or less followed the law.  At this rate, the talk was pretty certain
to become technical.  The Cigarette expounded the Poor Laws very magisterially.  And a little
later I found myself laying down the Scots Law of Illegitimacy, of which I am glad to say I
know nothing.  The collector and the notary, who were both married men, accused the Judge,
who was a bachelor, of having started the subject.  He deprecated the charge, with a conscious,
pleased air, just like all the men I have ever seen, be they French or English. How strange
that we should all, in our unguarded moments, rather like to be thought a bit of a rogue with
the women!

As the evening went on, the wine grew more to my taste; the spirits proved better than the
wine; the company was genial.  This was the highest water mark of popular favour on the whole
cruise.  After all, being in a Judge's house, was there not something semi- official in the
tribute?  And so, remembering what a great country France is, we did full justice to our entertainment.
Landrecies had been a long while asleep before we returned to the hotel; and the sentries on
the ramparts were already looking for daybreak.

SAMBRE AND OISE CANAL

CANAL BOATS

Next day we made a late start in the rain.  The Judge politely escorted us to the end of the
lock under an umbrella.  We had now brought ourselves to a pitch of humility in the matter
of weather, not often attained except in the Scottish Highlands.  A rag of blue sky or a glimpse
of sunshine set our hearts singing; and when the rain was not heavy, we counted the day almost
fair.

Long lines of barges lay one after another along the canal; many of them looking mighty spruce
and shipshape in their jerkin of Archangel tar picked out with white and green.  Some carried
gay iron railings, and quite a parterre of flower-pots.  Children played on the decks, as heedless
of the rain as if they had been brought up on Loch Carron side; men fished over the gunwale,
some of them under umbrellas; women did their washing; and every barge boasted its mongrel
cur by way of watch-dog.  Each one barked furiously at the canoes, running alongside until
he had got to the end of his own ship, and so passing on the word to the dog aboard the next.
We must have seen something like a hundred of these embarkations in the course of that day's
paddle, ranged one after another like the houses in a street; and from not one of them were
we disappointed of this accompaniment.  It was like visiting a menagerie, the Cigarette remarked.

These little cities by the canal side had a very odd effect upon the mind.  They seemed, with
their flower-pots and smoking chimneys, their washings and dinners, a rooted piece of nature
in the scene; and yet if only the canal below were to open, one junk after another would hoist
sail or harness horses and swim away into all parts of France; and the impromptu hamlet would
separate, house by house, to the four winds.  The children who played together to- day by the
Sambre and Oise Canal, each at his own father's threshold, when and where might they next meet?

For some time past the subject of barges had occupied a great deal of our talk, and we had
projected an old age on the canals of Europe.  It was to be the most leisurely of progresses,
now on a swift river at the tail of a steam-boat, now waiting horses for days together on some
inconsiderable junction.  We should be seen pottering on deck in all the dignity of years,
our white beards falling into our laps.  We were ever to be busied among paint-pots; so that
there should be no white fresher, and no green more emerald than ours, in all the navy of the
canals.  There should be books in the cabin, and tobacco-jars, and some old Burgundy as red
as a November sunset and as odorous as a violet in April.  There should be a flageolet, whence
the Cigarette, with cunning touch, should draw melting music under the stars; or perhaps, laying
that aside, upraise his voice--somewhat thinner than of yore, and with here and there a quaver,
or call it a natural grace-note--in rich and solemn psalmody.

All this, simmering in my mind, set me wishing to go aboard one of these ideal houses of lounging.
I had plenty to choose from, as I coasted one after another, and the dogs bayed at me for a
vagrant. At last I saw a nice old man and his wife looking at me with some interest, so I gave
them good-day and pulled up alongside.  I began with a remark upon their dog, which had somewhat
the look of a pointer; thence I slid into a compliment on Madame's flowers, and thence into
a word in praise of their way of life.

If you ventured on such an experiment in England you would get a slap in the face at once.
The life would be shown to be a vile one, not without a side shot at your better fortune. 
I have heard a woman in quite a better position at home, with a good bit of money in hand,
refer to her own child with a horrid whine as 'a poor man's child.'  I would not say such a
thing to the Duke of Westminster.  And the French are full of this spirit of independence.
Perhaps it is the result of republican institutions, as they call them.  Much more likely it
is because there are so few people really poor, that the whiners are not enough to keep each
other in countenance.

The people on the barge were delighted to hear that I admired their state.  They understood
perfectly well, they told me, how Monsieur envied them.  Without doubt Monsieur was rich; and
in that case he might make a canal boat as pretty as a villa--joli comme un chateau.  And with
that they invited me on board their own water villa.  They apologised for their cabin; they
had not been rich enough to make it as it ought to be.

'The fire should have been here, at this side.' explained the husband.  'Then one might have
a writing-table in the middle-- books--and' (comprehensively) 'all.  It would be quite coquettish--
ca serait tout-a-fait coquet.'  And he looked about him as though the improvements were already
made.  It was plainly not the first time that he had thus beautified his cabin in imagination;
and when next he makes a bit, I should expect to see the writing-table in the middle.

Madame had three birds in a cage.  They were no great thing, she explained.  Fine birds were
so dear.  They had sought to get a Hollandais last winter in Rouen (Rouen? thought I; and is
this whole mansion, with its dogs and birds and smoking chimneys, so far a traveller as that?
and as homely an object among the cliffs and orchards of the Seine as on the green plains of
Sambre?)--they had sought to get a Hollandais last winter in Rouen; but these cost fifteen
francs apiece--picture it--fifteen francs!

'Pour un tout petit oiseau--For quite a little bird,' added the husband.

As I continued to admire, the apologetics died away, and the good people began to brag of their
barge, and their happy condition in life, as if they had been Emperor and Empress of the Indies.
It was, in the Scots phrase, a good hearing, and put me in good humour with the world.

They began to ask about our voyage.  You should have seen how they sympathised.  They seemed
half ready to give up their barge and follow us.  But these canaletti are only gypsies semi-domesticated.
The semi-domestication came out in rather a pretty form.  Suddenly Madam's brow darkened. 
'Cependant,' she began, and then stopped; and then began again by asking me if I were single?

'Yes,' said I.

'And your friend who went by just now?'

He also was unmarried.

O then--all was well.  She could not have wives left alone at home; but since there were no
wives in the question, we were doing the best we could.

'To see about one in the world,' said the husband, 'il n'y a que ca--there is nothing else
worth while.  A man, look you, who sticks in his own village like a bear,' he went on, '--very
well, he sees nothing.  And then death is the end of all.  And he has seen nothing.'

Madame reminded her husband of an Englishman who had come up this canal in a steamer.

'Perhaps Mr. Moens in the Ytene,' I suggested.

'That's it,' assented the husband.  'He had his wife and family with him, and servants.  He
came ashore at all the locks and asked the name of the villages, whether from boatmen or lock-keepers;
and then he wrote, wrote them down.  Oh, he wrote enormously!  I suppose it was a wager.'

A wager was a common enough explanation for our own exploits, but it seemed an original reason
for taking notes.

THE OISE IN FLOOD

Before nine next morning the two canoes were installed on a light country cart at Etreux: 
and we were soon following them along the side of a pleasant valley full of hop-gardens and
poplars. Agreeable villages lay here and there on the slope of the hill; notably, Tupigny,
with the hop-poles hanging their garlands in the very street, and the houses clustered with
grapes.  There was a faint enthusiasm on our passage; weavers put their heads to the windows;
children cried out in ecstasy at sight of the two 'boaties'--barguettes:  and bloused pedestrians,
who were acquainted with our charioteer, jested with him on the nature of his freight.

We had a shower or two, but light and flying.  The air was clean and sweet among all these
green fields and green things growing. There was not a touch of autumn in the weather.  And
when, at Vadencourt, we launched from a little lawn opposite a mill, the sun broke forth and
set all the leaves shining in the valley of the Oise.

The river was swollen with the long rains.  From Vadencourt all the way to Origny, it ran with
ever-quickening speed, taking fresh heart at each mile, and racing as though it already smelt
the sea. The water was yellow and turbulent, swung with an angry eddy among half-submerged
willows, and made an angry clatter along stony shores.  The course kept turning and turning
in a narrow and well- timbered valley.  Now the river would approach the side, and run griding
along the chalky base of the hill, and show us a few open colza-fields among the trees.  Now
it would skirt the garden-walls of houses, where we might catch a glimpse through a doorway,
and see a priest pacing in the chequered sunlight.  Again, the foliage closed so thickly in
front, that there seemed to be no issue; only a thicket of willows, overtopped by elms and
poplars, under which the river ran flush and fleet, and where a kingfisher flew past like a
piece of the blue sky.  On these different manifestations the sun poured its clear and catholic
looks.  The shadows lay as solid on the swift surface of the stream as on the stable meadows.
The light sparkled golden in the dancing poplar leaves, and brought the hills into communion
with our eyes.  And all the while the river never stopped running or took breath; and the reeds
along the whole valley stood shivering from top to toe.

The canoe was like a leaf in the current.  It took it up and shook it, and carried it masterfully
away, like a Centaur carrying off a nymph.  To keep some command on our direction required
hard and diligent plying of the paddle.  The river was in such a hurry for the sea!  Every
drop of water ran in a panic, like as many people in a frightened crowd.  But what crowd was
ever so numerous, or so single-minded?  All the objects of sight went by at a dance measure;
the eyesight raced with the racing river; the exigencies of every moment kept the pegs screwed
so tight, that our being quivered like a well-tuned instrument; and the blood shook off its
lethargy, and trotted through all the highways and byways of the veins and arteries, and in
and out of the heart, as if circulation were but a holiday journey, and not the daily moil
of threescore years and ten.  As for us, we could have shouted aloud.  If this lively and beautiful
river were, indeed, a thing of death's contrivance, the old ashen rogue had famously outwitted
himself with us.  I was living three to the minute.  I was scoring points against him every
stroke of my paddle, every turn of the stream.  I have rarely had better profit of my life.

For I think we may look upon our little private war with death somewhat in this light.  If
a man knows he will sooner or later be robbed upon a journey, he will have a bottle of the
best in every inn, and look upon all his extravagances as so much gained upon the thieves.
And above all, where instead of simply spending, he makes a profitable investment for some
of his money, when it will be out of risk of loss.  So every bit of brisk living, and above
all when it is healthful, is just so much gained upon the wholesale filcher, death.  We shall
have the less in our pockets, the more in our stomach, when he cries stand and deliver.  A
swift stream is a favourite artifice of his, and one that brings him in a comfortable thing
per annum; but when he and I come to settle our accounts, I shall whistle in his face for these
hours upon the upper Oise.

Towards afternoon we got fairly drunken with the sunshine and the exhilaration of the pace.
We could no longer contain ourselves and our content.  The canoes were too small for us; we
must be out and stretch ourselves on shore.  And so in a green meadow we bestowed our limbs
on the grass, and smoked deifying tobacco and proclaimed the world excellent.  It was the last
good hour of the day, and I dwell upon it with extreme complacency.

On one side of the valley, high up on the chalky summit of the hill, a ploughman with his team
appeared and disappeared at regular intervals.  At each revelation he stood still for a few
seconds against the sky:  for all the world (as the Cigarette declared) like a toy Burns who
should have just ploughed up the Mountain Daisy.  He was the only living thing within view,
unless we are to count the river.

On the other side of the valley a group of red roofs and a belfry showed among the foliage.
Thence some inspired bell-ringer made the afternoon musical on a chime of bells.  There was
something very sweet and taking in the air he played; and we thought we had never heard bells
speak so intelligibly, or sing so melodiously, as these.  It must have been to some such measure
that the spinners and the young maids sang, 'Come away, Death,' in the Shakespearian Illyria.
There is so often a threatening note, something blatant and metallic, in the voice of bells,
that I believe we have fully more pain than pleasure from hearing them; but these, as they
sounded abroad, now high, now low, now with a plaintive cadence that caught the ear like the
burthen of a popular song, were always moderate and tunable, and seemed to fall in with the
spirit of still, rustic places, like the noise of a waterfall or the babble of a rookery in
spring.  I could have asked the bell-ringer for his blessing, good, sedate old man, who swung
the rope so gently to the time of his meditations.  I could have blessed the priest or the
heritors, or whoever may be concerned with such affairs in France, who had left these sweet
old bells to gladden the afternoon, and not held meetings, and made collections, and had their
names repeatedly printed in the local paper, to rig up a peal of brand- new, brazen, Birmingham-hearted
substitutes, who should bombard their sides to the provocation of a brand-new bell-ringer,
and fill the echoes of the valley with terror and riot.

At last the bells ceased, and with their note the sun withdrew. The piece was at an end; shadow
and silence possessed the valley of the Oise.  We took to the paddle with glad hearts, like
people who have sat out a noble performance and returned to work.  The river was more dangerous
here; it ran swifter, the eddies were more sudden and violent.  All the way down we had had
our fill of difficulties.  Sometimes it was a weir which could be shot, sometimes one so shallow
and full of stakes that we must withdraw the boats from the water and carry them round.  But
the chief sort of obstacle was a consequence of the late high winds.  Every two or three hundred
yards a tree had fallen across the river, and usually involved more than another in its fall.

Often there was free water at the end, and we could steer round the leafy promontory and hear
the water sucking and bubbling among the twigs.  Often, again, when the tree reached from bank
to bank, there was room, by lying close, to shoot through underneath, canoe and all.  Sometimes
it was necessary to get out upon the trunk itself and pull the boats across; and sometimes,
when the stream was too impetuous for this, there was nothing for it but to land and 'carry
over.'  This made a fine series of accidents in the day's career, and kept us aware of ourselves.

Shortly after our re-embarkation, while I was leading by a long way, and still full of a noble,
exulting spirit in honour of the sun, the swift pace, and the church bells, the river made
one of its leonine pounces round a corner, and I was aware of another fallen tree within a
stone-cast.  I had my backboard down in a trice, and aimed for a place where the trunk seemed
high enough above the water, and the branches not too thick to let me slip below.  When a man
has just vowed eternal brotherhood with the universe, he is not in a temper to take great determinations
coolly, and this, which might have been a very important determination for me, had not been
taken under a happy star.  The tree caught me about the chest, and while I was yet struggling
to make less of myself and get through, the river took the matter out of my hands, and bereaved
me of my boat.  The Arethusa swung round broadside on, leaned over, ejected so much of me as
still remained on board, and thus disencumbered, whipped under the tree, righted, and went
merrily away down stream.

I do not know how long it was before I scrambled on to the tree to which I was left clinging,
but it was longer than I cared about. My thoughts were of a grave and almost sombre character,
but I still clung to my paddle.  The stream ran away with my heels as fast as I could pull
up my shoulders, and I seemed, by the weight, to have all the water of the Oise in my trousers-pockets.
You can never know, till you try it, what a dead pull a river makes against a man.  Death himself
had me by the heels, for this was his last ambuscado, and he must now join personally in the
fray.  And still I held to my paddle.  At last I dragged myself on to my stomach on the trunk,
and lay there a breathless sop, with a mingled sense of humour and injustice.  A poor figure
I must have presented to Burns upon the hill-top with his team.  But there was the paddle in
my hand.  On my tomb, if ever I have one, I mean to get these words inscribed:  'He clung to
his paddle.'

The Cigarette had gone past a while before; for, as I might have observed, if I had been a
little less pleased with the universe at the moment, there was a clear way round the tree-top
at the farther side.  He had offered his services to haul me out, but as I was then already
on my elbows, I had declined, and sent him down stream after the truant Arethusa.  The stream
was too rapid for a man to mount with one canoe, let alone two, upon his hands.  So I crawled
along the trunk to shore, and proceeded down the meadows by the river-side.  I was so cold
that my heart was sore.  I had now an idea of my own why the reeds so bitterly shivered.  I
could have given any of them a lesson.  The Cigarette remarked facetiously that he thought
I was 'taking exercise' as I drew near, until he made out for certain that I was only twittering
with cold.  I had a rub down with a towel, and donned a dry suit from the india-rubber bag.
But I was not my own man again for the rest of the voyage.  I had a queasy sense that I wore
my last dry clothes upon my body. The struggle had tired me; and perhaps, whether I knew it
or not, I was a little dashed in spirit.  Nature's good-humour was only skin-deep after all.

There was still a long way to go by the winding course of the stream, and darkness had fallen,
and a late bell was ringing in Origny Sainte-Benoite, when we arrived.

ORIGNY SAINTE-BENOITE

A BY-DAY

The next day was Sunday, and the church bells had little rest; indeed, I do not think I remember
anywhere else so great a choice of services as were here offered to the devout.  And while
the bells made merry in the sunshine, all the world with his dog was out shooting among the
beets and colza.

In the morning a hawker and his wife went down the street at a foot-pace, singing to a very
slow, lamentable music 'O France, mes amours.'  It brought everybody to the door; and when
our landlady called in the man to buy the words, he had not a copy of them left. She was not
the first nor the second who had been taken with the song.  There is something very pathetic
in the love of the French people, since the war, for dismal patriotic music-making.  I have
watched a forester from Alsace while some one was singing 'Les malheurs de la France,' at a
baptismal party in the neighbourhood of Fontainebleau.  He arose from the table and took his
son aside, close by where I was standing.  'Listen, listen,' he said, bearing on the boy's
shoulder, 'and remember this, my son.'  A little after he went out into the garden suddenly,
and I could hear him sobbing in the darkness.

The humiliation of their arms and the loss of Alsace and Lorraine made a sore pull on the endurance
of this sensitive people; and their hearts are still hot, not so much against Germany as against
the Empire.  In what other country will you find a patriotic ditty bring all the world into
the street?  But affliction heightens love; and we shall never know we are Englishmen until
we have lost India.  Independent America is still the cross of my existence; I cannot think
of Farmer George without abhorrence; and I never feel more warmly to my own land than when
I see the Stars and Stripes, and remember what our empire might have been.

