Though experiments had been made in the problem of photography from the air before the war,
principally by Fletcher, Hubbard and Laws, and its value to survey was recognized, it had not
become of practical utility. We only took one official camera with us to France on August 13th,
1914, and it was not until September 15th that the first attempt at air photography was made,
when five plates were exposed over positions behind the enemy's lines with very imperfect results.
Its great value as an aid to observation in trench warfare was, however, very apparent, fresh
brains were brought to the task, Moore-Brabazon, Campbell and Dr. Swan, and by the end of the
year better success was obtained, though positions even then had to be filled in by the observer
with red ink. Experiments at home during 1915 led to a great improvement in lenses, and at
the beginning of 1916 air photography was universal. At the Battle of the Somme new enemy positions
were photographed as soon as they were seen, and the camera did invaluable work in the reconnaissance
of the Hindenburg Line during the German retreat of 1917, and the taking of over a thousand
photographs was a daily occurrence. On September 4th, 1917, a record of 1,805 photographs was made.

The development of air photography, very remarkable in itself, is even more so when it is remembered
that the improvement in enemy anti-aircraft guns drove our machines to carry out their work
at altitudes increasing up to 20,000 and even 22,000 feet, at which heights the negatives had
to be as distinct as those taken at 4,000 in the earlier days of the war.

At the beginning of the Dardanelles operations our apparatus consisted of one camera, a printing
frame and a dark room lamp. The first photographs were taken by Butler in April, 1915, from
a H. Farman machine at necessarily low altitudes. Butler was wounded in June and was succeeded
by Thomson, who alone made 900 exposures and sent in 3,600 prints.

In addition to the assistance of air photography to reconnaissance, the war gave it great impetus
as the handmaid of survey and mapping. It was, in fact, the only means of mapping or correcting
the maps of country held by the enemy, which in certain cases, as at Gallipoli and in Palestine,
were very inaccurate.

By the end of the war photographic processes and equipment had reached a high standard of excellence.
There are still, however, certain difficulties in regard to the production of accurate maps,
which have not been overcome, the most obvious being the necessity of an initial framework
of fixed points and of contouring. The subject is considered so important that an "Air Survey
Committee," consisting of representatives of the Air Ministry, the Geographical section of
the War Office, the Ordnance Survey, the School of Military Engineering and the Artillery Survey
School, has recently been formed. In addition, the School of Aeronautics of Cambridge University
is studying the question. The Survey of India and the Survey of Egypt are also conducting experiments.

Wireless.

From the outset, part of the German scheme of tactics was to batter down resistance by means
of superior weight of heavy armament, and with the beginning of warfare of fixed position the
observation and direction of our artillery fire became as important as distant reconnaissance.
Besides its immense value in increasing the effect of the batteries, it had the indirect advantage
of more closely binding the ties of mutual understanding between the air and ground troops,
a point which fortunately seems to have been misunderstood by the Germans. In September, 1914,
the first attempts were made to signal enemy movements from the aeroplanes of a Headquarters
Wireless Flight which had been formed for the purpose, and this practice was continued with
success throughout the Battle of the Aisne.

In the earliest stages artillery co-operation was also carried out by dropping coloured lights,
but from the Battle of Ypres onwards, though for some time very few wireless machines were
available, this was effected by wireless or signal lamps. In his dispatch on the Battle of
Loos, Sir John French wrote: "The work of observation for the guns from aeroplanes has now
become an important factor in artillery fire, and the personnel of the two arms work in closest
co-operation."

By the Battle of the Somme artillery co-operation had assumed very large dimensions. For instance,
on September 15th, 1916, on the front of the 4th Army alone, seventy hostile batteries were
located, twenty-nine being silenced. Counter-battery work was so effective before the offensive
which opened on the Ypres front at the end of July, 1917, that the Germans withdrew their guns
and the attack was delayed for three days in order that their new positions might be located.

Recognition marks on aeroplanes were at this time, and indeed throughout the war, a matter
of great difficulty. It had been suggested before the war that they would not be necessary,
but the reverse was found to be the case, as even with the distinctive marks which were adopted
our machines were often fired at by British troops, and we should undoubtedly have lost very
heavily if we had flown over our own lines with false marks, as was suggested, or none.

Bombing.

The bombing operations, which reached their climax in the raids on German industrial centres
in 1918, arose from very primitive methods used at the beginning of the war. During the retreat
from Mons a few hand grenades were carried experimentally in the pockets of pilots and observers,
or, in the case of the larger varieties, tied to their bodies, and these were dropped over
the side of the machine as opportunity occurred. At the Marne, for instance, small petrol bombs
set fire to a transport park and scattered a mixed column of infantry and transport. I think
I am right in saying that the first German bombs were dropped on us--unsuccessfully--at Compiègne
on August 29th, 1914. It was not, however, until the beginning of 1915 that special bombing
raids were started by the Royal Flying Corps, one of the first places to be attacked being
the Ghistelles aerodrome in West Flanders.

The most important bombing operations and raids into Germany in the early days of the war were
carried out by the Naval Air Service, units of which landed at Ostend on August 27th and operated
with the Royal Naval Division from Antwerp. They were subsequently withdrawn to Dunkirk to
form the nucleus of an aircraft centre from which excellent work was done in attacking the
bases established on or near the Belgian coast from which German submarines and airships conducted
their operations.

Just before the Germans entered Antwerp, the first raid was made against a German town, one
machine reaching Dusseldorf, when it descended from 6,000 to 400 feet and dropped three bombs
on an airship shed.

From the end of 1914 onwards the activities of the Royal Naval Air Service in this theatre
of operations continually increased, the chief objectives being the gun emplacements at Middelkerke
and Blankenburghe, the submarine bases at Zeebrugge and Bruges, the minefield and dock of Ostend,
the airship sheds near Brussels, and the dockyards at Antwerp. The first airship destroyed
in the air was attacked over Ghent.

An interesting experiment was the attempt by the R.N.A.S. at the Dardanelles to sink the heavy
wire anti-submarine net, which had been stretched on buoys across the Straits at Nagara by
the Turks, by means of parachute bombs.

To return to the Royal Flying Corps. During 1915 railway junctions were the principal bombing
objectives, and raids were carried out on an ever-increasing scale, formations of fourteen
to twenty machines taking part. At the Battle of Neuve Chapelle for instance, the railway junctions
at Menin, Courtrai and Douai were attacked. One officer of No. 5 Squadron, carrying one 100
lb. bomb, arrived over Menin at 3,500 feet, descended to 120 feet, and dropped his bomb on
the railway line. The first V.C. of the Royal Flying Corps was obtained at the Second Battle
of Ypres by Lieutenant W. B. Rhodes-Moorhouse, who in bombing Courtrai came down to three or
four hundred feet, under heavy fire, but piloted his machine 35 miles back to Merville at the
height of a few hundred feet, and died a few days later from his wounds.

One of the most instructive features of the Battle of Loos in September, 1915, was the definite
co-ordination of bombing attacks with army operations. Many types of machines, belonging both
to Army and Corps Squadrons, carried bombs in order to destroy dumps, communications, cut off
reinforcements, and the like, while at the Somme bombing was carried out by formations of Wings.
In October, 1917, 113 tons, and for a period of six days in March, 1918, 95 tons, of explosives
were dropped. This illustrates the enormous progress of bombing which was so largely resorted
to in the later stages of the war. The hand grenades of 1914 had become bombs weighing three-quarters
of a ton: the pilot's pocket a mechanically released rack: and aim, assisted by instruments,
was becoming fairly accurate.

Night bombing, necessitated by the fact that by day a large machine heavily laden with bombs
was an easy prey to the fighting scout, came into prominence in 1916, increasing in intensity
up to the end of the war; and raids into Germany recommenced. Early in 1918 these raids included
the bombing of Maintz, Stuttgart, Coblentz, Cologne, and Metz. Machines sometimes dropped their
bombs from heights of about 12,000 feet and at other times descended to within 200 feet of
their objectives.

Contact Patrol.

Contact patrol, the name given to the direct co-operation of aircraft with troops on the ground,
was first extensively practised at the Battle of the Somme, though experiments in this direction
had been made in 1915, messages being dropped at the Battle of Neuve Chapelle at pre-arranged
points.

The main objects of contact patrols were to assist the telephone (which was frequently cut
by shellfire), to keep the various headquarters informed of the progress of their troops during
the attack, so also saving them from the possibility of coming under the fire of their own
artillery, to report on enemy positions, to transmit messages from the troops engaged to the
headquarters of their units, to attack ground formations, and to co-operate with tanks. A system
of red flares on the floor of the trenches was used to mark the disposition of the troops,
and aircraft communicated their information by means of signalling lamps, wireless and message-bags.

During the German retreat of 1917 contact patrols attacked enemy foundations from 100 feet
and in some cases landed behind the enemy lines to obtain information. The skill of low-flying
pilots in taking cover by flying behind woods, houses, etc., became increasingly important.
The fact that 62,673 rounds of ammunition were fired from the air against enemy ground targets
between November 20th and 26th, 1917, and 163,567 between March 13th and 18th, 1918, indicates
the rapid development of this form of aircraft action, the effect of which was frequently more
deadly than bombing.

Two of many protagonists of contact patrol were Pretyman and Bishop. On one occasion the latter,
in attacking an aerodrome at about 50 feet, riddled the officers' and men's quarters with bullets,
put two or three machines on the ground out of action, and three in succession as they got
into the air. Another interesting example of contact patrol work occurred in 1917 when a pilot
flew his machine at a low altitude over the enemy trenches, and he and his observer attracted
the attention of the Germans by firing their machine guns and Verey lights. The Germans were
so busy with the aeroplane that they had their backs turned to the front line and our infantry
were able to cross no-man's land without any artillery preparation, take prisoners and bomb
dug-outs.

An article in the Cologne Gazette showed what the Germans thought of low "strafing."

    "The operations" (i.e. of June 7th, 1917), it says, "were prefaced
    by innumerable enemy airmen, who, at the beginning of the
    preparation for the attack, appeared like a swarm of locusts and
    swamped the front. They also work on cunningly calculated methods.
    Their habit is to work in three layers--one quite high, one in the
    middle, and the third quite low. The English who fly lowest show an
    immense insolence; they came down to 200 metres and shot at our
    troops with their machine guns, which are specially adapted to this
    purpose."

Armour was first employed as a result of Shephard finding at Maubeuge a bullet lodged in the
seat of his leather suit. Thin sheets of steel were at once cut out and placed in the wickerwork
seats of aeroplanes. This primitive protection developed into the armoured machine mentioned
later, which was about to make its appearance at the Armistice.

I may mention here the "special duty" flights, which consisted in establishing secret communication
between our Intelligence Branch and agents in the territory occupied by the Germans. Agents,
mostly French and Belgian, were carried by aeroplane over the enemy lines and landed there.
This work was started in 1914.

Fighting.

At the beginning of the war it became obvious that it was not only the duty of aircraft to
obtain information but also to prevent enemy aircraft crossing our lines. In addition to the
reconnaissance machine, and in order to make its work possible, a machine designed purely for
fighting was required. In August, 1914, the aeroplane's armament consisted simply of rifle,
or carbine, and revolver, but our pilots nevertheless attacked hostile machines whenever the
opportunity occurred. The first German machine to fly over us was at Maubeuge on August 22nd,
1914, and, though fighting on an extensive scale did not take place until 1916, as early as
August 25th, 1914, there were three encounters in the air in which two enemy machines were
driven down. One interesting report of an early fight is that between a B.E. and a German machine
on December 20th, 1914.

    "A German aeroplane with one passenger and pilot being encountered
    over Poperinghe, we followed to Morbecque and then to Armentières.
    The passenger of the B.E. fired 40 rounds from his rifle and the
    German passenger replied with some rounds from his revolver. The
    B.E. crossed the bows of the German machine to permit the pilot to
    use his revolver. The German switched off and dived below the B.E.,
    and is believed to have landed somewhere north-west of Lille."

Another instance of the early air combats was when Holt, single-handed, and armed only with
a rifle, lashed to a strut of his machine, attacked ten Germans near Dunkirk, causing them
to drop their bombs in the field and make off to their own lines.

We managed to bring down a number of German machines, mainly by rifle fire (five had already
been brought down by September 7th, 1914), but our great difficulty early in the war was to
get the enemy into action, and, although during October and November, 1914, there was a certain
amount of fighting, as a rule the German when attacked made for his own lines and the protection
of his anti-aircraft guns. This, though offensive carried to the extent of wastefulness of
life is equally bad, was a serious mistake in all ways from his point of view, entailing as
it did a tendency for the confidence of the troops and the morale of the air service to be
undermined from the outset. The error was rectified, but only temporarily, at the Somme.

As the specialized duties of aircraft increased, the Corps machines engaged in them needed
protection and it was realized that the best method of protection was the development of the
air offensive. This was rendered possible by the adaptation of the machine gun to the aeroplane.
Early in 1915 the invention of the "synchronizing gear" enabled a machine gun to fire through
the propeller, and by the end of 1915 fighting in the air became the general rule. The first
squadron, No. 24, composed purely of fighting machines, took its place on the Western Front
in February, 1916, and gradually Wings were attached to Armies solely for fighting and the
protection of Corps machines. During the long months of the Battle of the Somme, for instance,
when, though the Royal Flying Corps dominated the air, the Germans put up a strenuous opposition,
bombing machines were protected by fighting patrols in formation on the far side of the points
attacked. The rapidity with which fighting in the air developed is shown by the fact that at
the end of 1916 twenty new fighting squadrons were asked for on the Western Front; the establishment
was increased to twenty-four machines per squadron, and by the end of the war even night-fighting
squadrons were operating with considerable success and, had the war continued, would have proved
a very important factor in air warfare.

The development of aerobatics, air fighting, and formation tactics brought many airmen into
prominence. For example Albert Ball, who ascribed his successes to keen application to aerial
gunnery; J. B. McCudden, the first man to bring four hostile machines down in a day; and Trollope,
who later on brought down six. Hawker met his death fighting von Richthofen, who describes
the fight in his book The Red Air Fighter as follows:--

    "Soon I discovered that I was not fighting a beginner. He had not
    the slightest intention to break off the fight.... The gallant
    fellow was full of pluck, and when we had got down to 3,000 feet he
    merrily waved to me as if to say, 'Well, how do you do?'... The
    circles which we made round one another were so narrow that their
    diameter was probably not more than 250 or 300 feet.... At that time
    his first bullets were flying round me, as up to then neither of us
    had been able to do any shooting."

At 300 feet Hawker was compelled to fly in a zig-zag course to avoid bullets from the ground
and this enabled Richthofen to dive on his tail from a distance of 150 feet.

This indicates a heavy disadvantage under which our aircraft laboured in all their work on
the Western Front. The prevailing westerly wind which, while it assisted the enemy in his homeward
flight, made it very difficult for a British machine, perhaps damaged by anti-aircraft fire,
to make its way--still under fire--to its base.

I cannot leave the subject of air fighting without giving one or two more examples. One which
comes to mind is that of five British machines attacking twenty-five of the enemy. One of ours
gliding down with its engine stopped and being attacked by two Germans was saved by another
British one attacking and driving off the two enemy. The result of the combat was five German
machines destroyed and four driven down out of control, whilst all of ours returned safely.
Another example, that of Barker who, whilst destroying an enemy two-seater, was wounded from
below by another German machine and fell some distance in a spin. Recovering, he found himself
surrounded by fifteen Fokkers, two of which he attacked indecisively but shot down a third
in flames. Whilst doing this he was again wounded, again fainted, again fell, again recovered
control and again, being attacked by a large formation, shot down an enemy in flames. A bullet
now shattered his left elbow and, fainting a third time, he fell several thousand feet, where
he was again attacked, and thinking his machine had been set on fire he tried, as he thought
in a final effort, to ram a Fokker, but instead drove it down on fire! Barker was by this time
without the use of both legs and an arm. Diving to a few thousand feet of the ground he again
found his retreat barred by eight of the enemy, but these he was able to shake off after short
bursts of fire and he returned a few feet above the ground to our lines.

Though at the beginning our machines were rather better than either the French or German, it
was the marked superiority of our pilots which gave us the greatest advantage. We should have
been superior even had the machines been exchanged.

CO-OPERATION WITH THE NAVY.

We have seen that the functions of co-operation with the Navy--Coast defence and Fleet assistance--were
very complicated, and that at the outbreak of war the splendid pilots and excellent equipment
of the R.N.A.S. were not so highly organized and were wanting in cohesion, but that the R.N.A.S.
had advanced further than the Royal Flying Corps in specialized technical development. In the
earlier part of the war, in addition to its main duties, the R.N.A.S. ventured in many directions,
many of them of considerable value to the Army, as, for instance, at Antwerp.

Coast Defence, Patrol and Convoy Work.

Immediately war broke out a system of coastal patrols was established between the Humber and
the Thames Estuary and over the Channel--the latter serving as an escort to the Expeditionary
Force crossing to France. Patrols were at first, through limitations of equipment, mainly confined
to the Home coast, but, as the war went on and machines improved, they were rapidly extended,
especially in connection with the detection and destruction of submarines; reconnaissances
were carried out over the enemy's shores, and in 1918 there were forty-three flights of seaplanes,
thirty flights of aeroplanes, together with flying boats and airships, operating from, and
communicating with, an ever-increasing number of shore stations. Not only was anti-submarine
work carried out in the vicinity of the coast, but organized hunts were made for submarines,
ships were convoyed on the high seas, shipping routes were protected, and action was taken
to bar the passage of submarines through narrow channels. This was effected by an intensive
system of combining and interlocking patrols, and by maintaining, in close co-operation with
surface craft, a protective barrage across suitable stretches of water, such as the Straits
of Dover.

Airships from the beginning, when patrols operated from Kingsnorth during the crossing of the
Expeditionary Force to France, proved particularly useful for escort, in addition to patrol
work, and twenty-seven small airships, known as the S.S. type, were completed in 1915. In 1916
the Coastal type with a longer range was designed and constructed and new airship bases were
established.

Fleet Assistance, Reconnaissance, Spotting for Ships' Guns.

The successful use of Drachen kite-balloons borne in ships at the Dardanelles led to their
extensive development. Up to about May, 1915, when the vessels to which they were attached
could stand in close to shore and overlook the enemy's positions from a distance of three or
four thousand yards, a large amount of spotting of great value was carried out by these balloons
for ships at Gallipoli, but when the Turks brought long-range guns into position, kite-balloon
vessels were obliged to lie out beyond 11,000 yards and their services were rendered comparatively
slight for this purpose. From 1916, however, they were towed by merchant auxiliaries and light
cruisers to spot submarines, observers communicating with the patrol ship by means of telephone.
One of the most wonderful sights I have ever seen was from the observer's basket of the kite-balloon
let up from S.S. "Manica" in June, 1915. We were spotting for the guns of H.M.S. "Lord Nelson"
bombarding Chanak. The sky and sea were a marvellous blue and visibility excellent, the peninsula,
where steady firing was going on all the time, lay below us, the Straits, with their ships
and boats, the Asiatic shore gradually disappearing in a golden haze, the Gulf of Xeros, the
Marmora, and behind one the islands of the Ægean affording a perfect background. No one who
was at the Dardanelles, however vivid the horrors and the heat and dust and flies, will forget
the beauty of the scene, especially at sunset, and it was seen at its best from the basket
of a kite-balloon.

The ever-increasing assistance rendered by aircraft to surface vessels in crippling Germany's
submarine campaign is shown by the fact that in 1915 ten submarines were attacked from the
air and in 1918 126 were sighted and 93 attacked. Nor was the principle forgotten in countering
the submarine menace that offence is the best defence, and among the many duties of R.N.A.S.
aircraft, based on Dunkirk from the early days of the war, were anti-submarine patrols along
the Belgian coast and the bombing of hostile submarine bases, such as Bruges.

As in the case of the Army Corps observation machines, fighting scouts became necessary for
the protection of patrols and to counter the enemy's efforts at raids and sea reconnaissance,
and the considerable amount of experiment in air fighting which the R.N.A.S. had made before
the war bore useful fruit.

For the immediate protection of the Grand Fleet seaplane and aeroplane bases were established
at Scapa Flow and Thurso at the beginning of the war, but, owing to damage from a gale in November,
1914, aircraft operations with the Fleet were carried out from the seaplane carrier "Campania."
The problem of using carriers with the Fleet had not been seriously tackled before the war,
and though experiments were strenuously carried out, and there were fourteen carrier ships
in commission in 1918, and a seaplane carrier operated with the Battle Cruiser Squadron at
Jutland, the use of aircraft in this way did not become very efficient. One of the chief difficulties
was limitation in size, and consequently in radius of action, of aircraft employed from carriers
or the decks of battleships. The total number of aeroplanes and seaplanes allotted to the Grand
Fleet in 1918 was 350.

Seaplane carriers occasionally co-operated with fighting ships. For instance in October, 1915,
a fast carrier at the Dardanelles accompanied ships detailed for the bombardment of Dedeagatch,
and her seaplanes not only co-operated in spotting but also made a valuable reconnaissance
of the Bulgarian coast and railway. But as a rule fighting and reconnaissance aircraft had
mainly to work from shore bases. To assist in this direction, units were sent overseas to be
nearer their sphere of action, as, for instance, the R.N.A.S. squadrons stationed at Dunkirk
which, besides general reconnaissance, helped the Navy to keep open the Straits of Dover, carried
out bombing raids against German bases and dockyards, such as Ostend, Zeebrugge, and Bruges,
and co-operated with monitors in the bombardment of the Belgian coast. The development of a
long-range seaplane or flying boat was also taken in hand, though an efficient type was not
produced until the last year of the war.

As with the Army, an important part of naval aircraft duties was spotting for gunfire; and
likewise single-seater fighters were required for the protection of our own aircraft, for preventing
enemy aircraft reconnaissance, for attacking the enemy's fleet and protecting our own. The
use of offensive patrols steadily increased during the war.

Bombing.

I have already referred to bombing and mentioned the attack on Dusseldorf as an instance of
the work done. Bombing raids had always been looked on with favour by the R.N.A.S. and were
used throughout the war as a means of countering hostile aircraft operations from bases in
Belgium. One of the first successful raids was that against the Friedrichshaven Zeppelin works
by three Avro machines, which flew 250 miles over enemy country on November 21st, 1914. Another
noteworthy example was the attempted raid against Cuxhaven on Christmas Day, 1914, carried
out by seaplanes, which were still in an experimental stage, and three carriers escorted by
naval units. Powerful machines for bombing purposes were ordered and bombs of greatly increased
size and gear for dropping them were designed.

Torpedo Attack.

The impetus given to bombing helped forward another use of naval aircraft: torpedo attack.
This is likely to develop in the future into one of the most important uses of aircraft in
naval operations, but during the war it was never given an objective by the German fleet. In
May, 1915, two Sunbeam Short machines were embarked in the "Ben-my-Chree" for operations at
Gallipoli, and it was in this theatre that for the first time in history ships were sunk by
torpedoes released from aircraft. I shall never forget the night when we steamed silently up
the narrow Gulf of Xeros and lay waiting to release our seaplanes in the still darkness of
the early morning. The machines were lowered noiselessly into the water, and, their engines
started, flew across the narrow neck of Bulair under fire from the old Turkish line; then,
reaching the northern end of the Dardanelles at dawn, they descended low (one machine actually
landed on the water and discharged its torpedo), sank their targets, and returned. In addition
to the possibility of submarine attack, the Gulf of Xeros is so narrow that our ship could
have been hit by the cross fire of field guns. It was a very fine performance and, although
during many years I have spent anxious hours hoping for the distant purr of a safe returning
machine, I have never been happier than when after a long wait our seaplanes were again quickly
raised on board. The only torpedo machine employed at the Battle of Jutland was a Sunbeam fitted
with a 14-inch torpedo, and it was not until just before the Armistice that a squadron of torpedo
aircraft was ready for operations with the Grand Fleet.

The Germans also tried to develop the use of torpedo-carrying seaplanes and, as with their
submarines, had the advantage over us of a vast number of targets close to hand in our North
Sea and Channel shipping, but fortunately the British fighting scouts were able to destroy
several of their machines before they had done much damage.

HOME DEFENCE.

At the beginning of the war the R.N.A.S. assumed responsibility for the defence of Great Britain
against attacks by hostile aircraft, and a scheme for the defence of London and other large
towns was entrusted to an anti-aircraft section of the Admiralty Air Department. Its resources,
however, consisting of a few unsuitable and widely scattered aeroplanes, some 1 pdr. pom-poms
with searchlights manned by a special corps, were inadequate and it was fortunate that only
three small daylight aeroplane raids, mainly for reconnaissance, were made during 1914--the
first German machine to visit England dropping a bomb near Dover on December 21st.

Night Flying and Night Fighting.

In spite of continuous action by the R.N.A.S. against German airship bases in Belgium, there
were in 1915 nineteen airship and eight aeroplane raids--one by night--over England, and, although
the new and powerful Zeppelin L.Z.38, which attacked London on May 31st, was destroyed by an
aeroplane counter-attack in its shed near Brussels, no real counter measures were evolved until
1916, when Home Defence was taken over by the War Office. During that year a Home Defence Squadron
of B.E.2c's, rapidly expanded to a Wing, was formed; and the systematic training of night pilots,
the standardization of night-flying equipment and armament, and the lighting of aerodromes,
was taken in hand. A continuous aeroplane and searchlight barrage with night landing grounds
was gradually formed between Dover and the Forth; the wireless signals employed to assist Zeppelins
in finding their way were intercepted, thus enabling our rapidly improving fighting machines
to pick up and attack raiding airships; and the constant attacks to which airship sheds were
exposed in Belgium, caused their withdrawal to positions further inland and increased their
distance from England. During 1916 there were twenty-two raids by airships, six of which were
destroyed, the first being brought down in September at Cuffley by Leefe Robinson. Thenceforward
airship raids declined, the destruction of the majority of the largest and latest which raided
England on October 19th, 1917, sealing their fate.

On the other hand, aeroplane daylight and night raids on London, the first of which occurred
in November, 1916, increased in number and strength with the object, in addition to the destruction
of material and civilian morale, of forcing upon us the unsound retention at home of a considerable
air defence force. The largest of these attacks was made by seventeen aeroplanes at midday
on June 13th, 1917, but, the Zeppelin danger nullified, counter measures to meet the new menace
were gradually evolved. New squadrons were raised and the number of home defence squadrons
was raised to fourteen service and eight night training squadrons; a Northern Home Defence
Wing was formed at York; and the Home Defence Group became the 6th Brigade. The first night
aeroplane raid occurred in September, and the systematic training of night-fighting pilots
on scout machines was hurried on. Separate zones for aeroplanes, guns and searchlights--the
latter provided with sound locators--forming an outer barrage, were instituted, and aprons,
supported by kite-balloons, formed a protective barrage up to 8,000 feet. A system of wireless
and ground telephonic communication was improvised for plotting the course of attacking aircraft
and thus enabling squadron commanders to concentrate machines at the point of attack. By 1918
the night-fighting aeroplane, assisted by these means, had countered the night-bombing aeroplane.
At first, this had been the result of the retention of a large number of fighting aircraft
and a complete organization at home.

Meanwhile, night fighting, especially the protection of night bombers by fighting machines,
had become of paramount importance on the Western Front. The chief feature of activity in September,
1918, was the successful co-operation between searchlights in the forward areas and No. 151
night-fighting squadron. This was the first night-fighting squadron, trained by the 6th Brigade,
to be sent to France. It was proposed to send four more such squadrons and thus form a first
line of offensive defence which would react on hostile raids over England. Thus once again
the old doctrine was gradually observed that offence is the only true defence, and that purely
defensive measures, however efficient, by keeping men and material from the vital point, are
necessarily expensive out of all proportion to their effectiveness. Both the Germans and ourselves
made the initial mistake of organizing large local defence systems partly to placate public
opinion. During the German offensive of 1918 a further development of night fighting took place
in the bombing and low strafing of enemy troops and unlighted transport with the aid of flares.

THE MACHINE AND ENGINE.

Turning now to the machine and engine, the Military Trials held in 1912, when the Royal Flying
Corps was started, represented the first organized effort to assist the evolution of service
aeroplanes in this country and a brief comparison will be useful to show the performance of
the average machines and engines of that date, at the beginning, and at the end of the war,
and of civil machines of to-day.

At the Military Competitions of 1912, of the eight types--Avro, B.E., Bristol, Cody, Bleriot,
Deperdussin, Hanriot, and M. Farman--the first four were British, though only the Avro had
a British engine, and the last four French, fitted with French engines. The average horse-power
was about 83, the average maximum speed 67, and the minimum 50 miles per hour; the climb to
1,000 feet was effected in 4-1/2 minutes with an average load of 640 lb., which included pilot,
fuel for four hours and useful load. The loading per square foot was, for biplanes, about 4-1/2,
and, for monoplanes, 6 lb. The load averaged 609 lb.

A remarkable advance in machine and engine construction is shown by referring to the tables
for 1918. At the Armistice of the twelve types--Avro, Bristol Fighter, Sopwith Snipe, S.E.
5a, de Havilland 4 and 9a, Vickers Vimy, Handley Page O/400 and V/1,500, Fairey Seaplane 3c,
F. 2 A. and F. 5--all were British and, except the de Havilland 9a, which had an American engine,
were fitted with engines of British manufacture. The F. 2 A., and F. 5, were twin-engined,
while one, the Handley Page V/1,500, was equipped with four engines. The average horse-power
was per engine, 344, and per machine, 516; the average maximum speed 111, and the minimum 53-1/2
miles per hour, the climb to 6,500 feet was carried out in 13 minutes and to 10,000 feet in
24 minutes with an average load, including fuel for 5-1/2 hours, of 2,742 lb. The average ceiling
was 15,500 feet; the loading per square foot about 8 lb.

The years following the Armistice have witnessed the conversion of military machines and the
development of new designs for commercial purposes. In 1921 there were thirteen types fitted
with British engines: Avro, Bristol, de Havilland 4, 16 and 18, Vickers Vimy, Handley Page
O/400 and W. 8, B.A.T., Westland, Fairey, Supermarine and Vickers Amphibians. No British machine
had a foreign engine. The Vickers Vimy, Handley Page O/400 and W. 8, which had a passenger-carrying
capacity of 15, were twin-engined. The average horse-power was per engine, 387, and per machine,
474; the average maximum speed 114, and the minimum 49, miles per hour. With an average load
of 2,467 lb., including fuel for 4-1/2 hours, 19 minutes was required for a climb to 10,000
feet. The average loading per square foot was about 13 lb., and the average ceiling 15,793 feet.

Before the war, in addition to the Royal Aircraft Factory, there were only eight firms engaged,
on a very small scale, in the manufacture of aircraft in England, and an aero engine industry
hardly existed. Until 1916, the greater proportion of our machines, and almost all our engines,
were French, and we were very dependent upon France for the replacement of our heavy losses
in material. By the end of the war the bulk of our material was of British design and construction,
though there was still a certain number of British built engines of French design. One American
engine--the Liberty--was also employed. The fact that in October, 1918, the Royal Air Force
had 22,171 machines and 37,702 engines on charge, and that during the ten months January to
October the output of machines had been 26,685 and of engines 29,561, gives some idea of the
enormous growth in production.

In the first few months of the war it was not possible to progress far with new inventions
or improvements. Fortunately, our Aircraft Factory had evolved in the B.E. a machine of considerable
stability which in this respect compared favourably with German machines, and was well adapted
to its work of reconnaissance.

