To tempt the reader therefore to take up the study which I have found so pleasant, so healthful,
and so interesting, I now propose to place in order the proceeds of a few of my rambles, and
shew how much success the reader may also expect in similar expeditions. His or her stock-in-trade
should consist of a good-sized note-book or sketch-book of paper not too rough for fine lines,
a B B pencil of reliable quality, and a small piece of sandstone or brick to be used in rubbing
off the dirt and moss which sometimes obscure inscriptions. No kind of scraper should ever
be employed, lest the crumbling memorial be damaged; but a bit of brick or soft stone will
do no harm, and will often bring to view letters and figures which have apparently quite disappeared.
If a camera be taken, a carpenter's pencil may be of service in strengthening half-vanished
lines, and a folded foot-rule should always be in the pocket. A mariner's compass is sometimes
useful in strange places, but the eastward position of a church will always give the bearings,
and a native is usually to be found to point the way. A road map of the county which you are
about to explore, or, if in the vicinity of London, one of those admirable and well-known handbooks
of the field paths, is useful, and the journey should be carefully plotted out before the start.
A friend and companion of congenial tastes adds, I need not say, to the enjoyment of the excursion.
My constant associate has happily a craze for epitaphs, but does not fancy sketching even in
the rough style which answers well enough for my work, and I have had therefore no competitor.
Together we have scoured all the northern part of Kent and visited every Kentish church within
twenty miles of London. The railway also will occasionally land us near some old church which
we may like to visit, and it was while waiting half an hour for a train at Blackheath station
that I picked up the accompanying choice specimen in the ancient burial-ground of Lee.

FIG. 64.--AT LEE.

  "To Eliza Drayton, died 11th May, 1770."

In this allegory Time appears to be commanding Death to extinguish the lamp of Life. The sun
may mean the brighter life beyond. The building to the right is an enigma.

Often the first six or seven miles have to be encountered before we reach unexplored ground.
The Cray Valley, for instance, may be cited for one day's experience. First a walk of seven
miles to Orpington, one of the five sister churches of the Crays--all said to be Anglo-Saxon
and of about one date. I must not digress to speak of churches, but it is only reasonable to
suppose that the student who is capable of taking up as a pastime the investigation of churchyards
has previously acquired something more or less of archaeological taste, and will not fail to
notice the churches.[2] We reach the churchyard of Orpington, visit the church, and then my
companion and I separate for our respective duties. I am not fortunate in securing any special
prize, but it is well to select some object if only as a souvenir of the visit, and I jot down
the following, which may be classed among the commonest order of all figurative headstones,
but is nevertheless noticeable as a variant.

[Footnote 2: There are several handbooks of church architecture, and the rudiments of the various
orders and dates are easily acquired.]

FIG. 65.--AT ORPINGTON, KENT.

  "To Hosa Mansfield, daughter of John and
      Martha Mansfield, died 24th May 1710,
      aged 26 years. Also James Mansfield,
      son of John and Martha Mansfield, died
      30th Dec'r 1746, aged 48 years."

The work in this instance is crude, and apparently done by an inexpert craftsman. The stone
is, however, decayed, and it is possible that it is the draughtsman who has blundered. The
two skulls, being of different sizes, suggest the male and female occupants of the grave, and
would therefore assign the production to the later rather than the earlier date. The two bones
are not often found in so lateral a position, and the vampire wings are clumsy in the extreme.
I have collected varieties of the skull and crossbone character in many places, and seen the
eccentricities of many masons in the way of wings, but have met with very few so far astray
as these. While I am engaged in transferring the specimen to my book, our epitaph hunter has
been round and discovered a treasure. I shall not trouble the reader with him henceforth, but
I may note just this one of his successes as a sample of the rewards which attend his part
in the pilgrimage. He has found a stone thus inscribed:

  "Here lyeth the body of Mary, the wife of
      John Smith: she died March 17th, 1755,
      aged 58 years.

          "Here lyeth Mary, never was contrary
          To me nor her neighbours around her;
          Like Turtle and Dove we lived in love,
          And I left her where I may find her.

  "Also John Smith, husband of the above."

  (Date sunk underground.)

A short walk through the village and by the Cray River brings us to the church of St. Mary
Cray, where I secure a new species, in which Death is doubly symbolized by the not infrequent
scythe and possibly also by the pierced heart. The latter might refer to the bereaved survivor,
but, being a-flame, seems to lend itself more feasibly to the idea of the immortal soul. The
trumpet and the opening coffin indicate peradventure the resurrection.

FIG. 66.--AT ST. MARY CRAY.

  "To Thomas Abbott, died May 21, 1773, aged
            75 years."

Only a short distance farther, for the churches are small, we reach St. Paul's Cray, the burial-ground
of which shews that the foregoing allegory was immediately duplicated, apparently by another
hand, with just a little variation to redeem the piracy. The coffin is quite opened and empty,
instead of being slightly open and tenanted, which is almost the only difference between the
May and the September work.

FIG. 67.--AT ST. PAUL'S CRAY.

  "To John Busbey, died 1st Sept'r 1773, aged
            70 years."

Foot's Cray is a good long step beyond and does not yield much profit, but I select the most
novel specimen, which is a combination of ordinary emblems, with little attempt at symmetry,
or even arrangement, other than the awkward juxtaposition of the cherubins' inner wings.

FIG. 68.--AT FOOT'S CRAY.

  "To Elizabeth Wood, died February 8, 1735-6,
            aged 58 years."

The churchyard at North Cray added nothing at all to my collection. This was the only blank
drawn that day, but a beautifully kept ground surrounding a delightful church well repaid the
visit. A call at Old Bexley Church completed the day's work, and gave me one of the few sketches
belonging to the nineteenth century which I have made.

FIG. 69.--AT OLD BEXLEY.

  "To Susannah, wife of Henry Humphrey,
      died 26th December 1805, aged 57 years."

The anchor stands for Hope, the draped urn signifies mourning for the dead, and the figure
reading the Holy Book suggests consolation. From Bexley Church to the railway station was but
a brief space. The day's tramp was ended.

CHAPTER VI.

MORE TYPICAL TRAMPS.

How far county divisions might affect the early fashions in gravestones was one of my first
questions, and, having seen much of Kent, time was soon found for a scamper through the country
bordering Epping Forest and along the backbone of Essex.

At Barking, just within the old Abbey gate, I came upon an enigmatical illustration.

FIG. 70.--AT BARKING.

  Inscription illegible. Date appears to be 1759.

The signification of the four balls I am unable to suggest, unless they be connected in some
way with the planetary system and point man's insignificance. They appear to emanate from a
cloud resting upon the hour-glass, and may help the other emblems in symbolizing time and eternity.
The nickering candle is also of doubtful interpretation. It may mean the brevity of life; it
can hardly be needed, in the presence of the skull, to indicate death. The candle is sometimes
employed alone, occasionally extinguished. At Woolwich there is an instance in which the candle
is in the act of being put out.

FIG. 71.--AT WOOLWICH.

  "To Siston Champion, died 27th Feb. 1749-50
      (a few days after the birth of her child),
      aged 28 years."

The candle is indeed commonly used as a simile of life's uncertainty in all countries, and
it may be that where it is represented in a state of burning it may be meant as a lesson on
the number of our days. It is seen with the skulls in the churchyard of St. Nicholas, Deptford,
and other places.

FIG. 72.--AT DEPTFORD.

  "To William Firth, died 1724, aged 21 years."

In West Ham Churchyard may be seen the figure of the kissing cherubs rather prettily rendered,
but to be found in various forms in many places, and always expressive of affection.

FIG. 73.--AT WEST HAM.

  "To Sarah Moore, died 1749."

Wanstead Churchyard is remarkable for the abundance and originality of its old gravestones.
Here is one (Fig. 74) which carries more distinctly the fanciful idea suggested at West Ham
(page 34, Fig. 63); flowers and foliage, and even fruit, combining with the lowered torch and
summoning trumpet to tell of life beyond the grave.

FIG. 74.--AT WANSTEAD.

  "To William Bosely, died 1712, aged 79."

There are several other variations of the same symbol in the elegant enclosure at Wanstead
Church; but the most remarkable of the old stones is one which has at the top corners two projecting
skulls, the one facing nearly to the front and the other in profile, both standing out in full
relief, carefully and accurately sculptured, but too ghastly to be beautiful. This one, the
Richmond example, and the two at Ripley constitute my entire experience of full relief work
on a mere gravestone.

FIG. 75.--AT WANSTEAD.

  "To William Swan, died 1715, aged 16 years."

Other churchyards in the locality we found less fruitful, and taking rail to Buckhurst Hill,
we struck across Epping Forest to Chingford, also without profit, and walked on to Walthamstow,
where another of the enfoliated death's-head pictures was found; the novelty being two skulls
with ivy sprays, symbolical of evergreen recollections.

FIG. 76.--AT WALTHAMSTOW.

  "To Jane Redfern, died 1734, aged 52 years,"

In the Broxbourne example on the same Plate (Fig. 77) branches of oak, bearing leaves and acorns,
are used with good decorative effect on either side of a porch in which is seated a mourning
figure, but I cannot undertake to explain the symbolical significance of the oak in sepulchral
masonry.

FIG. 77.--AT BROXBOURNE.

  "To Mrs Rowe, widow, died 6 May 1798."

My excursions into Essex have been too limited in scope to trace or test peculiarities in that
county, but I have found by observation in a number of counties that, although there are occasional
evidences of local invention, or at least of local modification, in certain districts, the
same set of types which prevails in one county serves pretty well for all the rest.

It is well therefore to guard against disappointment. Pilgrimages like ours, having for their
real purpose healthy exercise and physical enjoyment, are not to be counted failures when their
ostensible errand seems to have borne no result. It is necessary for the pilgrim to be armed
with some such reflection as this against the shafts of discomfiture. There have been occasions
when, at the close of the day, conscious as I might be of the pleasant hours past, the freshened
brain and the body reinvigorated, I have yet covetously mourned the scanty and valueless additions
to my note-book. Other pilgrims may therefore take warning, be prepared for blank days in barren
coverts, and sully not their satisfaction with regrets. But it will be a blank day indeed which
does not carry its pleasures with it and store the mind with happy recollections. One walk
on a winter's day over the hills from High Barnet to Edgware I reckoned sadly unproductive
of the special novelties I sought, but it afforded me the contemplation of some landscapes
which I can never forget, and it printed on my brain a little papier-maché-like church at Totteridge
which was worth going miles to see. Better fortune next time should be the beacon of the gentle
tramp. The long jaunt I had from Chigwell Lane Station through the pretty but unpopulous country
west of Theydon Bois, uneventful as it was, made an ineffaceable mark on my memory. I picture
now the long and solitary walk across fields and woodlands, with never a soul to tell the way
for miles and miles, crossing and recrossing the winding Roden, startling the partridges from
the turnips, and surprising, at some sudden bend in the footpath, the rabbits at their play.
It is not without excitement to steer one's course over unknown and forsaken ground by chart
and compass. These needful guides then prove their value, and in a hilly country an altitude-barometer
is a friend not to be despised. It is not without some pride in one's self-reliance to find
one's self five miles from a railway station, as I did at Stapleford Abbotts; and, though my
special quest was all in vain at several halting-places that day, I met with a Norman doorway
at Lambourn Church which archaeologists would call a dream, the axe-work of the old masons
as clean cut and as perfect as though it had been done last week; and in taking a near cut
at a guess across country for Stapleford Tawney I mind me that I lost my way, or thought I
had, but the mariner's needle was true, and emerging in a green avenue I saw before me a finger-post
marked "To Tawney Church." I took off my hat and respectfully saluted that finger-post, and
was soon in the churchyard, where I haply lighted upon one of the gems of my collection, the
headstone sculpture of "The Good Samaritan."

FIG. 78.--AT STAPLEFORD TAWNEY.

  "To Richard Wright, died 3d March 1781,
            aged 76 years."

I have, however, an earlier study of the same subject from the churchyard at Shorne Village,
near Gravesend, which, is here given for comparison, and I have seen two others at Cranbrook.
They all have some features alike, but there are differences in the treatment of details in
each case.

FIG. 79.--AT SHORNE.

  "To Mary Layton, died Jan. 12, 1760; Joseph
      Layton, died May 21, 1757; and Will.
      Holmes, died Aug. 26, 1752."

The stone at Shorne being close to the church door is well known to the villagers, by whom
it is regarded as a curiosity. The schoolmaster was good enough to give me a photograph from
which my sketch is made. But such rarities are seldom esteemed by, or even known to, the inhabitants
of a place, and are passed by without heed by the constant congregation of the church. At Stapleford
Tawney, just named, a native, the first I had seen for a mile or two, stopped at the unwonted
sight of a stranger sketching in the churchyard, and I consulted him as to application of the
parable of the Good Samaritan in the case under notice. His reply was that, though he had lived
there "man and boy for fifty year," he had "never see'd the thing afore." He condescended,
however, to take an interest in my explanations, and seemed to realize that it was worth while
to seek for objects of interest even in a churchyard. This was decidedly better than the behaviour
on another occasion of two rustics at Southfleet. They had passed my friend jotting down an
epitaph, and the turn of a corner revealed me sketching a tombstone, when one to the other
exclaimed, "Land sikes, Bill, if 'ere ain't another on em!"

CHAPTER VII.

EARLIER GRAVESTONES.

Although memorials of the dead in one shape or another have apparently existed in all eras
of ethnological history, it would seem that the upright gravestone of our burial-grounds has
had a comparatively brief existence of but a few hundred years. This, however, is merely an
inference based on present evidences, and it may be erroneous. But they cannot have existed
in the precincts of the early Christian churches of this country, because the churches had
no churchyards for several centuries. The Romans introduced into Britain their Law of the Ten
Tables, by which it was ordained that "all burnings or burials" should be "beyond the city,"[3]
and the system continued to prevail long after the Roman evacuation. It was not until A.D.
742 that Cuthbert, eleventh Archbishop of Canterbury, brought from Rome the newer custom of
burying around the churches, and was granted a Papal dispensation for the practice. The churchyards
even then were not enclosed, but it was usual to mark their sacred character by erecting stone
crosses, many of which, or their remains, are still in existence. Yet it was a long time before
churchyard interments became general, the inhabitants clinging to the Pagan habit of indiscriminate
burial in their accustomed places. We hear nothing of headstones in the early days of Christianity,
but there are occasionally found in certain localities inscribed stones which bear the appearance
of rude memorials, and these have been regarded as relics of our National Church in its primitive
state. It is also suggested that these stones may be of Druidical origin, but there is nothing
to support the theory. Among the aboriginal Britons the custom of simple inhumation was probably
prevalent, but there are not wanting evidences in support of the belief that cremation also
was sometimes practised in prehistoric times. An instance of early interment was discovered
in a tumulus at Gusthorp, near Scarborough, in 1834. In a rude coffin scooped out of the trunk
of an oak-tree lay a human skeleton, which had been wrapped or clothed in the skin of some
wild animal, fastened at the breast with a pin or skewer of wood. In the coffin were also a
bronze spearhead and several weapons of flint--facts which all go to establish a remote date.
The absence of pottery is also indicative of a very early period. Regarding the skins, however,
it may be remarked that Cæsar says of the Britons, when he invaded the island, that "the greater
part within the country go clad in skins."

[Footnote 3: The ancient Jewish burial-ground had to be no less than 2000 cubits (or about
a mile) from the Levitical city.]

Christian burials, as we have seen, cannot be dated in England earlier than the eighth century,
and monuments at the grave may have possibly originated about the same period, but there is
nothing whatever to sustain such a belief, and we cannot assign the earliest of existing memorials
to a time prior to the eleventh century. Indeed it is very significant to find that the tombs
within the churches are only a trifle older than the gravestones outside, scarcely any of them
being antecedent to the sixteenth century. As burials inside churches were not permitted until
long after the churchyards were used for the purpose,[4] it is indeed possible that no memorials
were placed in the edifice until Tudor days; but this is scarcely feasible, and the more probable
explanation is that all the earlier ones have disappeared. Those which can boast an antiquity
greater than that of the common gravestone are very few indeed. It might have been supposed
that the sculptured shrine under the roof of the sanctuary, reverently tended and jealously
watched, might have stood for a thousand years, while the poor gravestone out in the churchyard,
exposed to all weathers and many kinds of danger, would waste away or meet with one of the
ordinary fates which attend ill-usage, indifference, or neglect. This indeed has happened in
a multitude of places. Who has not seen in ancient churchyards the headstones leaning this
way and that, tottering to their fall? Are there not hundreds of proofs that the unclaimed
stones have been used, and still serve, for the floors of the churches, and actually for the
paving of the churchyard paths? It was not thought strange, even within the memory of the present
generation, to advertise for owners of old graves, with an intimation that on a certain date
the stones would be removed; and vast numbers of them were thus got rid of--broken up perhaps
to mend the roads. But still greater perils have been survived by the earlier of those memorials
which remain to us, both without and within the churches. The dissolution of the Papal power
in Great Britain was the cause of one of these hazards; for, towards the latter end of Henry
VIII.'s reign, likewise during the reign of Edward VI., and again in the beginning of Elizabeth's,
commissioners in every county were vested with authority to destroy "all graven images" and
everything which seemed to savour of "idolatry and superstition." Under colour of this order,
these persons, and those who sympathized in their work, gave vent to their zeal in many excesses,
battering down and breaking up everything of an ornamental or sculptured character, including
tombs and even the stained windows. Moreover we are told by Weever[5] that the commission was
made the excuse for digging up coffins in the hope of finding treasure. Elizabeth soon perceived
the evil that was being done by the barbarous rage and greediness of her subjects, and issued
a proclamation under her own hand restraining all "ignorant, malicious, and covetous persons"
from breaking and defacing any monument, tomb, or grave, under penalty of fine or imprisonment.
This checked, but did not wholly cure, the mischief; and, although in her fourteenth year of
sovereignty she issued another and sterner edict on the subject, the havoc was perpetuated
chiefly by a sect or party whom Weever describes as "a contagious brood of scismaticks," whose
object was not only to rob the churches, but to level them with the ground, as places polluted
by all the abominations of Babylon. These people were variously known as Brownists, Barrowists,
Martinists, Prophesyers, Solisidians, Famelists, Rigid Precisians, Disciplinarians, and Judaical
Thraskists. Some who overstepped the mark paid the penalty with their lives. One man, named
Hachet, not content with destroying gravestones and statuary, thrust an iron weapon through
a picture of the Queen, and he was hanged and quartered.

[Footnote 4: The unhealthy practice of using churches for this purpose was continued some way
into the nineteenth century. The still more objectionable plan of depositing coffins containing
the dead in vaults under churches still lingers on. In 1875 I attended the funeral (so-called)
of a public man, whose coffin was borne into the vaults of a town church, and left there, with
scores of others piled in heaps in recesses which looked like wine-cellars. Not one of the
many mourners who shared in that experience failed to feel horrified at the thought of such
a fate. Some of the old coffins were tumbling to pieces, and the odour of the place was beyond
description. In the words of Edmund Burke: "I would rather sleep in the southern corner of
a country churchyard than in the tomb of the Capulets."]

[Footnote 5: Weever's "Funeral Monuments," A.D. 1631.]

And there was a danger to be encountered far later than that which was due to the anti-Popery
zealots of the Tudor dynasty. On the introduction of the Commonwealth there arose such a crusade
against all forms and emblems of doctrinal import as to affect not only the ornaments of the
churches, but the gravestones in the churchyards, many of which were removed and put to other
uses or sold. The Puritans, as is well known, went to the extremity of abolishing all ceremony
whatever at the Burial of the Dead.[6] The beautiful Service in the Book of Common Prayer,
now used more or less by all the Reformed Christian denominations of England, was abolished
by Parliament in 1645--that and the Prayer Book together at one stroke. In lieu of the Prayer
Book a "Directory" was issued on the conduct of public worship, in which it was said:

[Footnote 6: There does not appear to have been any form of prayer for the dead prior to the
issue of Gaskell's "Prymer" in 1400. The Service now in use dates from 1611.]

"Concerning Burial of the Dead, all customs of praying, reading, and singing, both in going
to or from the grave, are said to have been greatly abused. The simple direction is therefore
given, that when any person departeth this life, let the body upon the day of burial be decently
attended from the house to the place appointed for public burial, and there immediately interred
without any ceremony."

Penalties were at the same time imposed for using the Book of Common Prayer in any place of
worship or in any private family within the kingdom--the fine being £5 for a first offence,
£10 for a second, and a year's imprisonment for the third.

The Puritans, however, are to be thanked for stopping the then common practice of holding wakes
and fairs in the churchyards--a practice traceable no doubt to the celebration of Saints' Days
in the churches, and for that reason suppressed as remnants of Popery in 1627-31.

It need not be said that the Burial Service and the Prayer Book came back with the Restoration,
but the discontinuance of fairs in churchyards seems to have been permanent. Many instances,
however, have occurred in later years of desecration by pasturing cattle in the churchyards,[7]
and offences of this nature have been so recent that the practice cannot be said with confidence
to have even now entirely ceased. But we return to the gravestones.

[Footnote 7: At the Archbishop's Court at Colchester in 1540 it was reported that at a certain
church "the hogs root up the graves and beasts lie in the porch."]

From one cause or another it is pretty certain that for every old gravestone now to be seen
twenty or more have disappeared.

In Gough's "Sepulchral Monuments of Great Britain" many instances are given of the wanton and
wholesale destruction of church and churchyard memorials, even late in the eighteenth century.
In some cases the church officers, as already stated, gave public notice prior to removal of
gravestones, in order that persons claiming an interest in the remains might repair and restore
them; but more frequently the stones were cleared away and destroyed, or put somewhere out
of sight without observation. Sometimes this was the act of the Rector; at other times individuals,
exercising rights of ownership, have done the disgraceful work, and occasionally the whole
of the parishioners have been implicated. Gough says that the inhabitants of Letheringham in
Suffolk, being under the necessity of putting their church into decent order, chose to rebuild
it, and sold the whole fabric, monuments and all, to the building contractor, who beat the
stones to powder, and sold as much at three shillings a pound for terrace (?) as came to eighty
guineas. A portion of the fragments was rescued by the Rev. Mr. Clubbe, and erected in form
of a pyramid in the vicarage garden of Brandeston, in the same county, with this inscription:

  Indignant Reader!
  These monumental remains are not, as thou
  mayest suppose, the
  Ruins of Time,
  But were destroyed in an
  Irruption of the Goths
  So late in the Christian era as 1789.
  Credite Posteri!

CHAPTER VIII.

REFORM AMONG THE GRAVESTONES.

That the state of the old churchyards in this country, down to the middle of the nineteenth
century, was a public scandal and disgrace, is a remark which applies especially to London,
where burial-grounds, packed full of human remains, were still made available for interments
on a large scale until 1850 or later. The fact was the more discreditable in contrast with
the known example of Paris, which had, as early as 1765, closed all the city graveyards, and
established cemeteries beyond the suburbs. One of the laws passed at the same time by the Parliament
of Paris directed that the graves in the cemeteries should not be marked with stones, and that
all epitaphs and inscriptions should be placed on the walls, a regulation which appears to
have been greatly honoured in the breach. In 1776 Louis XVI., recognizing the benefit which
Paris had derived from the city decree, prohibited graveyards in all the cities and towns of
France, and rendered unlawful interments in churches and chapels; and in 1790 the National
Assembly passed an Act commanding that all the old burial-grounds, even in the villages, should
be closed, and others provided at a distance from habitations.[8] Other States of Europe took
pattern by these enlightened proceedings, and America was not slow in making laws upon the
subject; but Great Britain, and its worst offender, London, went on in the old way, without
let or hindrance, until 1850, For fifteen years prior to that date there had been in progress
an agitation against the existing order of things, led by Dr. G.A. Walker, a Drury Lane surgeon,
living in a very nest of churchyard fevers, who wrote a book and several pamphlets, delivered
public lectures, and raised a discussion in the public press. The London City Corporation petitioned
Parliament in 1842 for the abolition of burials within the City, and a Select Committee of
the House of Commons was at once entrusted with an enquiry on the subject.

[Footnote 8: In France in 1782-3, in order to check the pestilence, the remains of more than
six millions of people were disinterred from the urban churchyards and reburied far away from
the dwelling-places. The Cemetery of Père la Chaise was a later creation, having been consecrated
in 1804.]

The following were the official figures shewing the burials in the London district[9] from
1741 to 1837, and it was asserted that many surreptitious interments were unrecorded:

    From 1741 to 1765 588,523

    " 1766 to 1792 605,832

    " 1793 to 1813 402,595

    " 1814 to 1837 508,162

    Total 2,105,112

In the same year (1842) a Export was presented to Parliament by the Select Committee on "The
Improvement of the Health of Towns," and especially on "The Effect of the Interment of Bodies
in Towns." Its purport may be summed up in the following quotation:

"The evidence ... gives a loathsome picture of the unseemly and demoralizing practices which
result from the crowded condition of the existing graveyards--practices which could scarcely
have been thought possible in the present state of society.... We cannot arrive at any other
conclusion than that the nuisance of interments in great towns and the injury arising to the
health of the community are fully proved."

[Footnote 9: London was much increased in area by the passing of Sir Benjamin Hall's "Metropolis
Local Management Act of 1849."]

Among the witnesses examined were Sir Benjamin Brodie and Dr. G.R. Williams.

In 1846 a Bill was prepared to deal with the matter, but it was not until 1850 that an Act
was passed "To make better provision for the Interment of the Dead in and near the Metropolis."
Powers were conferred upon the General Board of Health to establish cemeteries or enlarge burial-grounds,
and an Order in Council was made sufficient for closing any of the old churchyards either wholly
or with exceptions to be stipulated in the order. One month's notice was all that was needed
to set the Act in operation, and in urgent cases seven days; but it was found necessary in
1851 to pass another Act for the purpose of raising funds; and in 1852 a more stringent Act
was put upon the Statute Book to deal summarily with the churchyards. This was, in the the
following session, extended to England and Wales, the General Board of Health having reported
strongly in favour of a scheme for "Extra-mural Sepulture" in the country towns, declaring
that the graveyards of these places were in no better condition than those of London.

Consequently, in the years which followed 1850, a general closing of churchyards took place
throughout the Metropolis, and to a lesser extent throughout the kingdom, and an active crusade
against all similar burial-grounds was instituted, which may be said to be still in operation.
The substitution of new cemeteries in remote and mostly picturesque places was of immediate
advantage in many ways, but it did little or nothing to remedy the dilapidated appearance of
the old graveyards, which indeed, now that they brought in no revenues, became in many cases
painfully neglected, dejected, and forlorn. Happily, in 1883, the Metropolitan Public Gardens
Association was established, and its influence has been very marked in the improvement of the
old enclosures and their conversion into recreation grounds. The Metropolitan Board of Works,
the London County Council, the City Corporation, public vestries, and private persons, have
shared in the good work, but the chief instrument has been the Public Gardens Association.

Of old burial-grounds now open as public gardens in the London district there are more than
a hundred. Care is always taken to preserve the sacred soil from profane uses, games being
prohibited, and the improvements confined to paths and seats, levelling the ground and planting
with trees and flowers. The gravestones, though removed to the sides of the enclosure, are
numbered and scheduled, and all in which any living person can claim an interest are left untouched.
No stones are ever destroyed in the process of reformation, but previous ill-usage and natural
decay have rendered very many of them illegible, and in another century or so all these once
fond memorials will probably have become blank and mute.

To the middle of the nineteenth century may also be assigned the change which we now see in
the character of our gravestones. Quite in the beginning of the century the vulgar and grotesque
carvings and Scriptural barbarisms of the eighteenth century had given place to a simple form
of memorial in which it was rare to find the least effort at ornament; but, as soon as the
Burial Acts were passed and the old churchyards were succeeded by the new cemeteries, the tasteful
and elegant designs which are to be seen in every modern burial-ground were introduced, founded
in great measure upon the artistic drawings of Mr. D.A. Clarkson, whose manifold suggestions,
published in 1852, are still held in the highest admiration.

CHAPTER IX.

PRESERVING THE GRAVESTONES.

Mankind in all ages and in all places has recognized the sanctity of the burial-place. Among
the New Zealanders, when they were first revealed to Europeans as savages, the place of interment
was tapu, or holy. The wild and warlike Afghanistans have also a profound reverence for their
burial-grounds, which they speak of expressively as "cities of the silent." Among the Turks
the utmost possible respect is paid to the resting-places of the dead, and nowhere, perhaps
(says Mrs. Stone in "God's Acre"), are the burial-places so beautiful. The great and increasing
size of Turkish cemeteries is due to the repugnance of the people to disturbing the soil where
once a body has been laid. The Chinese and the inhabitants of the Sunda Isles (says the authority
just quoted) seem to vie with each other in the reverence with which they regard the burial-places
of their ancestors, which almost invariably occupy the most beautiful and sequestered sites.
The graves are usually overgrown with long grasses and luxuriantly flowering plants. In like
manner the Moors have a particular shrub which overspreads their graves, and no one is permitted
to pluck a leaf or a blossom.

The simple Breton people are deeply religious, and their veneration for the dead is intense.
They are frequently to be seen--men, women, and children--kneeling on the ground in their churchyards,
praying among the graves. It may therefore be well believed that in the period of burial reform
which overspread the Continent in the earlier part of the nineteenth century there was great
opposition in Brittany to the establishment of remote cemeteries. The thought of burying elsewhere
than in the parish churchyard was to the minds of the parishioners a species of impiety. When
reasoned with they would answer:

"Our fathers were buried here, and you would separate us from our dead. Let us be buried here,
where our kinsfolk can see our graves from their windows, and the children can come at evening
to pray."

In vain they were shewn the danger of accumulating corpses in a place which was usually in
the centre of the population. They shook their heads and cried:

"Death comes only by the will of God."

Possibly, to some extent, this feeling is universal among mankind. There is in our hearts an
innate reverence for the burial-place; we tread by instinct lightly over the sleeping-places
of the dead, and look with silent awe upon their tombs. The feeling being part of our humanity,
we might suppose it to be universal, and be apt to conclude that, in our more primitive churchyards
at least, we should find some effort to preserve the whole or a large proportion of the memorials
which are there dedicated to departed merit, hallowed by love and made sacred by sorrow. But
it may truthfully be said that of all the headstones (not to speak alone of decorated headstones)
which were set up prior to the beginning of the nineteenth century, by far the greater number
have disappeared! Indeed the cases in which the old churchyards have been the objects of any
care whatever are lamentably few, while attempts to preserve the old gravestones are almost
unknown. The ordinary experience is to find the churchyard more or less neglected and forgotten,
and the grey and aged stones either sinking into the earth or tottering to their fall. It cannot
be imagined that the clergy, the wardens, and the sextons have failed to see these things;
but they have, presumedly, more pressing matters to attend to, and it seems to be nobody's
business to attend to such ownerless and worthless objects.

