Captain Scarborough, as he went down to Cheltenham, turned the matter over in his mind, thinking
within himself how best he might carry out his project. His intention was to obtain from his
cousin an assurance of her love, and a promise that it should not be shaken by any stories
which his father might tell respecting him. For this purpose he he must make known to her the
story his father had told him, and his own absolute disbelief in it. Much else must be confided
to her. He must acknowledge in part his own debts, and must explain that his father had taken
this course in order to defraud the creditors. All this would be very difficult; but he must
trust in her innocence and generosity. He thought that the condition of his affairs might be
so represented that the story should tend rather to win her heart toward him than to turn it
away. Her mother had hitherto always been in his favor, and he had, in fact, been received
almost as an Apollo in the house at Cheltenham.

"Florence," he said, "I must see you alone for a few minutes. I know that your mother will
trust you with me." This was spoken immediately on his arrival, and Mrs. Mountjoy at once left
the room. She had been taught to believe that it was her daughter's duty to marry her cousin;
and though she knew that the captain had done much to embarrass the property, she thought that
this would be the surest way to settle him. The heir of Tretton Park was, in her estimation,
so great a man that very much was to be endured at his hands.

The meeting between the two cousins was very long, and when Mrs. Mountjoy at last returned
unannounced to the room she found her daughter in tears.

"Oh, Florence, what is the matter?" asked her mother.

The poor girl said nothing, but still continued to weep, while the captain stood by looking
as black as a thunder-cloud.

"What is it, Mountjoy?" said Mrs. Mountjoy, turning to him.

"I have told Florence some of my troubles," said he, "and they seemed to have changed her mind
toward me."

There was something in this which was detestable to Florence,--an unfairness, a dishonesty
in putting off upon his trouble that absence of love which she had at last been driven by his
vows to confess. She knew that it was not because of his present trouble, which she understood
to be terrible, but which she could not in truth comprehend. He had blurted it all out roughly,--the
story as told by his father of his mother's dishonor, of his own insignificance in the world,
of the threatened loss of the property, of the heaviness of his debts,--and added his conviction
that his father had invented it all, and was, in fact, a thorough rascal. The full story of
his debts he kept back, not with any predetermined falseness, but because it is so difficult
for a man to own that he has absolutely ruined himself by his own folly. It was not wonderful
that the girl should not have understood such a story as had then been told her. Why was he
defending his mother? Why was he accusing his father? The accusations against her uncle, whom
she did know, were more fearful to her than these mysterious charges against her aunt, whom
she did not know, from which her son defended her. But then he had spoken passionately of his
own love, and she had understood that. He had besought her to confess that she loved him, and
then she had at once become stubborn. There was something in the word "confess" which grated
against her feelings. It seemed to imply a conviction on his part that she did love him. She
had never told him so, and was now sure that it was not so. When he had pressed her she could
only weep. But in her weeping she never for a moment yielded. She never uttered a single word
on which he could be enabled to build a hope. Then he had become blacker and still blacker,
fiercer and still fiercer, more and more earnest in his purpose, till at last he asked her
whom it was that she loved--as she could not love him. He knew well whom it was that he suspected;--and
she knew also. But he had no right to demand any statement from her on that head. She did not
think that the man loved her; nor did she know what to say or to think of her own feelings.
Were he, the other man, to come to her, she would only bid him go away; but why she should
so bid him she had hardly known. But now this dark frowning captain, with his big mustache
and his military look, and his general aspect of invincible power, threatened the other man.

"He came to Tretton as my friend," he said, "and by Heaven if he stands in my way, if he dare
to cross between you and me, he shall answer it with his life!"

The name had not been mentioned; but this had been very terrible to Florence, and she could
only weep.

He went away, refusing to stay to dinner, but said that on the following afternoon he would
again return. In the street of the town he met one of his creditors, who had discovered his
journey to Cheltenham, and had followed him.

"Oh, Captain Mountjoy, what is all dis that they are talking about in London?"

"What are they talking about?"

"De inheritance!" said the man, who was a veritable Jew, looking up anxiously in his face.

The man had his acceptance for a very large sum of money, with an assurance that it should
be paid on his father's death, for which he had given him about two thousand pounds in cash.

"You must ask my father."

"But is it true?"

"You must ask my father. Upon my word, I can tell you nothing else. He has concocted a tale
of which I for one do not believe a word. I never heard of the story till he condescended to
tell it me the other day. Whether it be true or whether it be false, you and I, Mr. Hart, are
in the same boat."

"But you have had de money."

"And you have got the bill. You can't do anything by coming after me. My father seems to have
contrived a very clever plan by which he can rob you; but he will rob me at the same time.
You may believe me or not as you please; but that you will find to be the truth."

Then Mr. Hart left him, but certainly did not believe a word the captain had said to him.

To her mother Florence would only disclose her persistent intention of not marrying her cousin.
Mrs. Mountjoy, over whose spirit the glamour of the captain's prestige was still potent, said
much in his favor. Everybody had always intended the marriage, and it would be the setting
right of everything. The captain, no doubt, owed a large sum of money, but that would be paid
by Florence's fortune. So little did the poor lady know of the captain's condition. When she
had been told that there had been a great quarrel between the captain and his father, she declared
that the marriage would set that all right.

"But, mamma, Captain Scarborough is not to have the property at all."

Then Mrs. Mountjoy, believing thoroughly in entails, had declared that all Heaven could not
prevent it.

"But that makes no difference," said the daughter; "if I--I--I loved him I would marry him
so much the more, if he had nothing."

Then Mrs. Mountjoy declared that she could not understand it at all.

On the next day Captain Scarborough came, according to his promise, but nothing that he could
say would induce Florence to come into his presence. Her mother declared that she was so ill
that it would be wicked to disturb her.

CHAPTER III.

HARRY ANNESLEY.

Together with Augustus Scarborough at Cambridge had been one Harry Annesley, and he it was
to whom the captain in his wrath had sworn to put an end if he should come between him and
his love. Harry Annesley had been introduced to the captain by his brother, and an intimacy
had grown up between them. He had brought him to Tretton Park when Florence was there, and
Harry had since made his own way to Cheltenham, and had endeavored to plead his own cause after
his own fashion. This he had done after the good old English plan, which is said to be somewhat
loutish, but is not without its efficacy. He had looked at her, and danced with her, and done
the best with his gloves and his cravat, and had let her see by twenty unmistakable signs that
in order to be perfectly happy he must be near her. Her gloves, and her flowers, and her other
little properties were sweeter to him than any scents, and were more valuable in his eyes than
precious stones. But he had never as yet actually asked her to love him. But she was so quick
a linguist that she had understood down to the last letter what all these tokens had meant.
Her cousin, Captain Scarborough, was to her magnificent, powerful, but terrible withal. She
had asked herself a thousand times whether it would be possible for her to love him and to
become his wife. She had never quite given even to herself an answer to this question till
she had suddenly found herself enabled to do so by his over-confidence in asking her to confess
that she loved him. She had never acknowledged anything, even to herself, as to Harry Annesley.
She had never told herself that it would be possible that he should ask her any such question.
She had a wild, dreamy, fearful feeling that, although it would be possible to her to refuse
her cousin, it would be impossible that she should marry any other while he should still be
desirous of making her his wife. And now Captain Scarborough had threatened Harry Annesley,
not indeed by name, but still clearly enough. Any dream of her own in that direction must be
a vain dream.

As Harry Annesley is going to be what is generally called the hero of this story, it is necessary
that something should be said of the particulars of his life and existence up to this period.
There will be found to be nothing very heroic about him. He is a young man with more than a
fair allowance of a young man's folly;--it may also be said of a young man's weakness. But
I myself am inclined to think that there was but little of a young man's selfishness, with
nothing of falseness or dishonesty; and I am therefore tempted to tell his story.

He was the son of a clergyman, and the eldest of a large family of children. But as he was
the acknowledged heir to his mother's brother, who was the squire of the parish of which his
father was rector, it was not thought necessary that he should follow any profession. This
uncle was the Squire of Buston, and was, after all, not a rich man himself. His whole property
did not exceed two thousand a year, an income which fifty years since was supposed to be sufficient
for the moderate wants of a moderate country gentleman; but though Buston be not very far removed
from the centre of everything, being in Hertfordshire and not more than forty miles from London,
Mr. Prosper lived so retired a life, and was so far removed from the ways of men, that he apparently
did not know but that his heir was as completely entitled to lead an idle life as though he
were the son of a duke or a brewer. It must not, however, be imagined that Mr. Prosper was
especially attached to his nephew. When the boy left the Charter-house, where his uncle had
paid his school-bills, he was sent to Cambridge, with an allowance of two hundred and fifty
pounds a year, and that allowance was still continued to him, with an assurance that under
no circumstances could it ever be increased. At college he had been successful, and left Cambridge
with a college fellowship. He therefore left it with one hundred and seventy-five pounds added
to his income, and was considered by all those at Buston Rectory to be a rich young man.

But Harry did not find that his combined income amounted to riches amid a world of idleness.
At Buston he was constantly told by his uncle of the necessity of economy. Indeed, Mr. Prosper,
who was a sickly little man about fifty years of age, always spoke of himself as though he
intended to live for another half-century. He rarely walked across the park to the rectory,
and once a week, on Sundays, entertained the rectory family. A sad occasion it generally was
to the elder of the rectory children, who were thus doomed to abandon the loud pleasantries
of their own home for the sober Sunday solemnities of the Hall. It was not that the Squire
of Buston was peculiarly a religious man, or that the rector was the reverse: but the parson
was joyous, whereas the other was solemn. The squire,--who never went to church, because he
was supposed to be ill,--made up for the deficiency by his devotional tendencies when the children
were at the Hall. He read through a sermon after dinner, unintelligibly and even inaudibly.
At this his brother-in-law, who had an evening service in his own church, of course never was
present; but Mrs. Annesley and the girls were there, and the younger children. But Harry Annesley
had absolutely declined; and his uncle having found out that he never attended the church service,
although he always left the Hall with his father, made this a ground for a quarrel. It at last
came to pass that Mr. Prosper, who was jealous and irritable, would hardly speak to his nephew;
but the two hundred and fifty pounds went on, with many bickerings on the subject between the
parson and the squire. Once, when the squire spoke of discontinuing it, Harry's father reminded
him that the young man had been brought up in absolute idleness, in conformity with his uncle's
desire. This the squire denied in strong language; but Harry had not hitherto run loudly in
debt, nor kicked over the traces very outrageously; and as he absolutely must be the heir,
the allowance was permitted to go on.

There was one lady who conceived all manner of bad things as to Harry Annesley, because, as
she alleged, of the want of a profession and of any fixed income. Mrs. Mountjoy, Florence's
mother, was this lady. Florence herself had read every word in Harry's language, not knowing,
indeed, that she had read anything, but still never having missed a single letter. Mrs. Mountjoy
also had read a good deal, though not all, and dreaded the appearance of Harry as a declared
lover. In her eyes Captain Scarborough was a very handsome, very powerful, and very grand personage;
but she feared that Florence was being induced to refuse her allegiance to this sovereign by
the interference of her other very indifferent suitor. What would be Buston and two thousand
a year, as compared with all the glories and limitless income of the great Tretton property?
Captain Scarborough, with his mustaches and magnificence, was just the man who would be sure
to become a peer. She had always heard the income fixed at thirty thousand a year. What would
a few debts signify to thirty thousand a year? Such had been her thoughts up to the period
of Captain Scarborough's late visit, when he had come to Cheltenham, and had renewed his demand
for Florence's hand somewhat roughly. He had spoken ambiguous words, dreadful words, declaring
that an internecine quarrel had taken place between him and his father; but these words, though
they had been very dreadful, had been altogether misunderstood by Mrs. Mountjoy. The property
she knew to be entailed, and she knew that when a property was entailed the present owner of
it had nothing to do with its future disposition. Captain Scarborough, at any rate, was anxious
for the marriage, and Mrs. Mountjoy was inclined to accept him, encumbered as he now was with
his father's wrath, in preference to poor Harry Annesley.

In June Harry came up to London, and there learned at his club the singular story in regard
to old Mr. Scarborough and his son. Mr. Scarborough had declared his son illegitimate, and
all the world knew now that he was utterly penniless and hopelessly in debt. That he had been
greatly embarrassed Harry had known for many months, and added to that was now the fact, very
generally believed, that he was not and never had been the heir to Tretton Park. All that still
increasing property about Tretton, on which so many hopes had been founded, would belong to
his brother. Harry, as he heard the tale, immediately connected it with Florence. He had, of
course, known the captain was a suitor to the girl's hand, and there had been a time when he
thought that his own hopes were consequently vain. Gradually the conviction dawned upon him
that Florence did not love the grand warrior, that she was afraid of him rather and awe-struck.
It would be terrible now were she brought to marry him by this feeling of awe. Then he learned
that the warrior had gone down to Cheltenham, and in the restlessness of his spirit he pursued
him. When he reached Cheltenham the warrior had already gone.

"The property is certainly entailed," said Mrs. Mountjoy. He had called at once at the house
and saw the mother, but Florence was discreetly sent away to her own room when the dangerous
young man was admitted.

"He is not Mr. Scarborough's eldest son at all," said Harry; "that is, in the eye of the law."
Then he had to undertake that task, very difficult for a young man, of explaining to her all
the circumstances of the case.

But there was something in them so dreadful to the lady's imagination that he failed for a
long time to make her comprehend it. "Do you mean to say that Mr. Scarborough was not married
to his own wife?"

"Not at first."

"And that he knew it?"

"No doubt he knew it. He confesses as much himself."

"What a very wicked man he must be!" said Mrs. Mountjoy. Harry could only shrug his shoulder.
"And he meant to rob Augustus all through?" Harry again shrugged his shoulder. "Is it not much
more probable that if he could be so very wicked he would be willing to deny his eldest son
in order to save paying the debts?"

Harry could only declare that the facts were as he told them, or at least that all London believed
them to be so, that at any rate Captain Mountjoy had gambled so recklessly as to put himself
for ever and ever out of reach of a shilling of the property, and that it was clearly the duty
of Mrs. Mountjoy, as Florence's mother, not to accept him as a suitor.

It was only by slow degrees that the conversation had arrived at this pass. Harry had never
as yet declared his own love either to the mother or daughter, and now appeared simply as a
narrator of this terrible story. But at this point it did appear to him that he must introduce
himself in another guise.

"The fact is, Mrs. Mountjoy," he said, starting to his feet, "that I am in love with your daughter
myself."

"And therefore you have come here to vilify Captain Scarborough."

"I have come," said he, "at any rate to tell the truth. If it be as I say, you cannot think
it right that he should marry your daughter. I say nothing of myself, but that, at any rate,
cannot be."

"It is no business of yours, Mr. Annesley."

"Except that I would fain think that her business should be mine."

But he could not prevail with Mrs. Mountjoy either on this day or the next to allow him to
see Florence, and at last was obliged to leave Cheltenham without having done so.

CHAPTER IV.

CAPTAIN SCARBOROUGH'S DISAPPEARANCE.

A few days after the visits to Cheltenham, described in the last chapters, Harry Annesley,
coming down a passage by the side of the Junior United Service Club into Charles Street, suddenly
met Captain Scarborough at two o'clock in the morning. Where Harry had been at that hour need
not now be explained, but it may be presumed that he had not been drinking tea with any of
his female relatives.

Captain Scarborough had just come out of some neighboring club, where he had certainly been
playing, and where, to all appearances, he had been drinking also. That there should have been
no policemen in the street was not remarkable, but there was no one else there present to give
any account of what took place during the five minutes in which the two men remained together.
Harry, who was at the moment surprised by the encounter, would have passed the captain by without
notice, had he been allowed to do so; but this the captain perceived, and stopped him suddenly,
taking him roughly by the collar of his coat. This Harry naturally resented, and before a word
of intelligible explanation had been given the two young men had quarrelled.

Captain Scarborough had received a long letter from Mrs. Mountjoy, praying for explanation
of circumstances which could not be explained, and stating over and over again that all her
information had come from Harry Annesley.

The captain now called him an interfering, meddlesome idiot, and shook him violently while
holding him in his grasp. This was a usage which Harry was not the man to endure, and there
soon arose a scuffle, in which blows had passed between them. The captain stuck to his prey,
shaking him again and again in his drunken wrath, till Harry, roused to a passion almost equal
to that of his opponent, flung him at last against the corner of the club railings, and there
left his foe sprawling upon the ground, having struck his head violently against the ground
as he fell. Harry passed on to his own bed, indifferent, as it was afterwards said, to the
fate of his antagonist. All this occupied probably five minutes in the doing, but was seen
by no human eye.

As the occurrence of that night was subsequently made the ground for heavy accusation against
Harry Annesley, it has been told here with sufficient minuteness to show what might be said
in justification or in condemnation of his conduct,--to show what might be said if the truth
were spoken. For, indeed, in the discussions which arose on the subject, much was said which
was not true. When he had retired from the scuffle on that night, Harry had certainly not dreamed
that any serious damage had been done to the man who had certainly been altogether to blame
in his provocation of the quarrel. Had he kept his temper and feelings completely under control,
and knocked down Captain Scarborough only in self-defence; had he not allowed himself to be
roused to wrath by treatment which could not but give rise to wrath in a young man's bosom,
no doubt, when his foe lay at his feet, he would have stooped to pick him up, and have tended
his wounds. But such was not Harry's character,--nor that of any of the young men with whom
I have been acquainted. Such, however, was the conduct apparently expected from him by many,
when the circumstances of those five minutes were brought to the light. But, on the other hand,
had passion not completely got the better of him, had he not at the moment considered the attack
made upon him to amount to misconduct so gross as to supersede all necessity for gentle usage
on his own part, he would hardly have left the man to live or die as chance would have it.
Boiling with passion, he went his way, and did leave the man on the pavement, not caring much,
or rather, not thinking much, whether his victim might live or die.

On the next day Harry Annesley left London and went down to Buston, having heard no word farther
about the captain. He did not start till late in the afternoon, and during the day took some
trouble to make himself conspicuous about the town; but he heard nothing of Captain Scarborough.
Twice he walked along Charles Street, and looked at the spot on which he had stood on the night
before in what might have been deadly conflict. Then he told himself that he had not been in
the least wounded, that the ferocious maddened man had attempted to do no more than shake him,
that his coat had suffered and not himself, and that in return he had certainly struck the
captain with all his violence. There were probably some regrets, but he said not a word on
the subject to any one, and so he left London.

For three or four days nothing was heard of the captain, nor was anything said about him. He
had lodgings in town, at which he was no doubt missed, but he also had quarters at the barracks,
at which he did not often sleep, but to which it was thought possible on the next morning that
he might have betaken himself. Before the evening of that day had come he had no doubt been
missed, but in the world at large no special mention was made of his absence for some time.
Then, among the haunts which he was known to frequent, questions began to be asked as to his
whereabouts, and to be answered by doubtful assertions that nothing had been seen or heard
of him for the last sixty or seventy hours.

It must be remembered that at this time Captain Scarborough was still the subject of universal
remark, because of the story told as to his birth. His father had declared him to be illegitimate,
and had thereby robbed all his creditors. Captain Scarborough was a man quite remarkable enough
to insure universal attention for such a tale as this; but now, added to his illegitimacy was
his disappearance. There was at first no idea that he had been murdered. It became quickly
known to all the world that he had, on the night in question, lost a large sum of money at
a whist-club which he frequented, and, in accordance with the custom of the club, had not paid
the money on the spot.

The fatal Monday had come round, and the money undoubtedly was not paid. Then he was declared
a defaulter, and in due process of time his name was struck off the club books, with some serious
increase of the ignominy hitherto sustained.

During the last fortnight or more Captain Scarborough's name had been subjected to many remarks
and to much disgrace. But this non-payment of the money lost at whist was considered to be
the turning-point. A man might be declared illegitimate, and might in consequence of that or
any other circumstance defraud all his creditors. A man might conspire with his father with
the object of doing this fraudulently, as Captain Scarborough was no doubt thought to have
done by most of his acquaintances. All this he might do and not become so degraded but that
his friends would talk to him and play cards with him. But to have sat down to a whist-table
and not be able to pay the stakes was held to be so foul a disgrace that men did not wonder
that he should have disappeared.

Such was the cause alleged for the captain's disappearance among his intimate friends; but
by degrees more than his intimate friends came to talk of it. In a short time his name was
in all the newspapers, and there was not a constable in London whose mind was not greatly exercised
on the matter. All Scotland Yard and the police-officers were busy. Mr. Grey, in Lincoln's
Inn, was much troubled on the matter. By degrees facts had made themselves clear to his mind,
and he had become aware that the captain had been born before his client's marriage. He was
ineffably shocked at the old squire's villany in the matter, but declared to all to whom he
spoke openly on the subject that he did not see how the sinner could be punished. He never
thought that the father and son were in a conspiracy together. Nor had he believed that they
had arranged the young man's disappearance in order the more thoroughly to defraud the creditors.
They could not, at any rate, harm a man of whose whereabouts they were unaware and who, for
all they knew, might be dead. But the reader is already aware that this surmise on the part
of Mr. Grey was unfounded.

The captain had been absent for three weeks when Augustus Scarborough went down for a second
time to Tretton Park, in order to discuss the matter with his father.

Augustus had, with much equanimity and a steady, fixed purpose, settled himself down to the
position as elder son. He pretended no anger to his father for the injury intended, and was
only anxious that his own rights should be confirmed. In this he found that no great difficulty
stood in his way. The creditors would contest his rights when his father should die; but for
such contest he would be prepared. He had no doubt as to his own position, but thought that
it would be safer,--and that it would also probably be cheaper,--to purchase the acquiescence
of all claimants than to encounter the expense of a prolonged trial, to which there might be
more than one appeal, and of which the end after all would be doubtful.

No very great sum of money would probably be required. The first year's campaign was carried on
from beginning to end, in the plain and simple method I've related.

In the second year, in which my uncle Toby took Liege and Ruremond, he thought he might afford
the expence of four handsome draw-bridges; of two of which I have given an exact description
in the former part of my work.

At the latter end of the same year he added a couple of gates with port-cullises:-- These last
were converted afterwards into orgues, as the better thing; and during
the winter of the same year, my uncle Toby, instead of a new suit
of clothes, which he always had at Christmas, treated himself with
a handsome sentry-box, to stand at the corner of the bowling-green,
betwixt which point and the foot of the glacis, there was left a little
kind of an esplanade for him and the corporal to confer and hold councils
of war upon.-- The sentry-box was in case of rain.

All these were painted white three times over the ensuing spring,
which enabled my uncle Toby to take the field with great splendour.

My father would often say to Yorick, that if any mortal in the whole universe had done such a thing
except his brother Toby, it would have been looked upon by the world
as one of the most refined satires upon the parade and prancing manner
in which Lewis XIV. from the beginning of the war, but particularly
that very year, had taken the field-- But'tis not my brother Toby's
nature, kind soul! my father would add, to insult any one.-- But let
us go on.

Chapter 3. LXVI. I must observe, that although in the first year's campaign,
the word town is often mentioned,-- yet there was no town at that time
within the polygon; that addition was not made till the summer following
the spring in which the bridges and sentry-box were painted, which was
the third year of my uncle Toby's campaigns,-- when upon his taking Amberg,
Bonn, and Rhinberg, and Huy and Limbourg, one after another, a thought
came into the corporal's head, that to talk of taking so many towns,
without one Town to shew for it,-- was a very nonsensical way of going
to work, and so proposed to my uncle Toby, that they should have a
little model of a town built for them,-- to be run up together of
slit deals, and then painted, and clapped within the interior polygon
to serve for all.

My uncle Toby felt the good of the project instantly, and instantly
agreed to it, but with the addition of two singular improvements,
of which he was almost as proud as if he had been the original inventor
of the project itself.

The one was, to have the town built exactly in the style of those
of which it was most likely to be the representative:-- with grated
windows, and the gable ends of the houses, facing the streets,& c.&
c.-- as those in Ghent and Bruges, and the rest of the towns in Brabant
and Flanders.

The other was, not to have the houses run up together, as the corporal proposed, but to have every
house independent, to hook on, or off, so as to form into the plan
of whatever town they pleased. This was put directly into hand, and many
and many a look of mutual congratulation was exchanged between my
uncle Toby and the corporal, as the carpenter did the work.-- It answered
prodigiously the next summer-- the town was a perfect Proteus-- It was Landen,
and Trerebach, and Santvliet, and Drusen, and Hagenau,-- and then it
was Ostend and Menin, and Aeth and Dendermond.-- Surely never did any
Town act so many parts, since Sodom and Gomorrah, as my uncle Toby's town
did. In the fourth year, my uncle Toby thinking a town looked foolishly
without a church, added a very fine one with a steeple.-- Trim was
for having bells in it;-- my uncle Toby said, the metal had better
be cast into cannon.

This led the way the next campaign for half a dozen brass field-pieces, to be planted three and
three on each side of my uncle Toby's sentry-box; and in a short
time, these led the way for a train of somewhat larger,-- and so
on-- (as must always be the case in hobby-horsical affairs) from pieces
of half an inch bore, till it came at last to my father's jack boots.

The next year, which was that in which Lisle was besieged, and at
the close of which both Ghent and Bruges fell into our hands,-- my
uncle Toby was sadly put to it for proper ammunition;-- I say proper
ammunition-- because his great artillery would not bear powder; and'twas
well for the Shandy family they would not-- For so full were the
papers, from the beginning to the end of the siege, of the incessant
firings kept up by the besiegers,-- and so heated was my uncle Toby's
imagination with the accounts of them, that he had infallibly shot
away all his estate.

Something therefore was wanting as a succedaneum, especially in one or two of the more violent paroxysms
of the siege, to keep up something like a continual firing in the imagination,-- and this something,
the corporal, whose principal strength lay in invention, supplied by
an entire new system of battering of his own,-- without which, this
had been objected to by military critics, to the end of the world,
as one of the great desiderata of my uncle Toby's apparatus.

This will not be explained the worse,
for setting off, as I generally do, at a little distance from the subject.
Chapter 3. LXVII. With two or three other trinkets, small in themselves,
but of great regard, which poor Tom, the corporal's unfortunate brother,
had sent him over, with the account of his marriage with the Jew's
widow-- there was A Montero-cap and two Turkish tobacco-pipes.

The Montero-cap I shall describe by
and bye.-- The Turkish tobacco-pipes had nothing particular in them,
they were fitted up and ornamented as usual, with flexible tubes of
Morocco leather and gold wire, and mounted at their ends, the one
of them with ivory,-- the other with black ebony, tipp'd with silver.

My father, who saw all things in lights different from the rest of the world, would say to
the corporal, that he ought to look upon these two presents more as tokens
of his brother's nicety, than his affection.-- Tom did not care,
Trim, he would say, to put on the cap, or to smoke in the tobacco-pipe
of a Jew.-- God bless your honour, the corporal would say (giving
a strong reason to the contrary)-- how can that be?

The Montero-cap was scarlet, of a superfine Spanish cloth, dyed in grain, and mounted all round with fur,
except about four inches in the front, which was faced with a light blue, slightly embroidered,--
and seemed to have been the property of a Portuguese quarter-master, not of foot, but of horse,
as the word denotes.

The corporal was not a little proud of it, as well for its own sake,
as the sake of the giver, so seldom or never put it on but upon Gala-days;
and yet never was a Montero-cap put to so many uses; for in all controverted
points, whether military or culinary, provided the corporal was sure
he was in the right,-- it was either his oath,-- his wager,-- or
his gift.--'Twas his gift in the present case. I'll be bound, said the corporal,
speaking to himself, to give away my Montero-cap to the first beggar
who comes to the door, if I do not manage this matter to his honour's
satisfaction.

The completion was no further off, than the very next morning; which
was that of the storm of the counterscarp betwixt the Lower Deule, to the
right, and the gate St. Andrew,-- and on the left, between St. Magdalen's
and the river. As this was the most memorable attack in the whole war,--
the most gallant and obstinate on both sides,-- and I must add the
most bloody too, for it cost the allies themselves that morning above
eleven hundred men,-- my uncle Toby prepared himself for it with
a more than ordinary solemnity.

The eve which preceded, as my uncle Toby went to bed, he ordered his ramallie wig, which had laid inside
out for many years in the corner of an old campaigning trunk, which
stood by his bedside, to be taken out and laid upon the lid of it,
ready for the morning;-- and the very first thing he did in his shirt,
when he had stepped out of bed, my uncle Toby, after he had turned
the rough side outwards,-- put it on:-- This done, he proceeded next
to his breeches, and having buttoned the waist-band, he forthwith
buckled on his sword-belt, and had got his sword half way in,-- when
he considered he should want shaving, and that it would be very inconvenient
doing it with his sword on,-- so took it off:-- In essaying to put
on his regimental coat and waistcoat, my uncle Toby found the same
objection in his wig,-- so that went off too:-- So that what with
one thing and what with another, as always falls out when a man is
in the most haste,--'twas ten o'clock, which was half an hour later
than his usual time, before my uncle Toby sallied out.

Chapter 3. LXVIII.

My uncle Toby had scarce turned the corner of his yew hedge, which separated his kitchen-garden
from his bowling-green, when he perceived the corporal had begun the
attack without him.-- Let me stop and give you a picture of the corporal's
apparatus; and of the corporal himself in the height of his attack,
just as it struck my uncle Toby, as he turned towards the sentry-box,
where the corporal was at work,-- for in nature there is not such
another,-- nor can any combination of all that is grotesque and whimsical
in her works produce its equal.

The corporal----
Tread lightly on his ashes, ye men of genius,-- for he was your kinsman:
Weed his grave clean, ye men of goodness,-- for he was your brother.--
Oh corporal! had I thee, but now,-- now, that I am able to give thee
a dinner and protection,-- how would I cherish thee! thou should'st
wear thy Montero-cap every hour of the day, and every day of the week.--
and when it was worn out, I would purchase thee a couple like it:--
But alas! alas! alas! now that I can do this in spite of their reverences--
the occasion is lost-- for thou art gone;-- thy genius fled up to
the stars from whence it came;-- and that warm heart of thine, with
all its generous and open vessels, compressed into a clod of the valley!--
But what-- what is this, to that future and dreaded page, where I
look towards the velvet pall, decorated with the military ensigns
of thy master-- the first-- the foremost of created beings;-- where,
I shall see thee, faithful servant! laying his sword and scabbard
with a trembling hand across his coffin, and then returning pale as
ashes to the door, to take his mourning horse by the bridle, to follow
his hearse, as he directed thee;-- where-- all my father's systems
shall be baffled by his sorrows; and, in spite of his philosophy,
I shall behold him, as he inspects the lackered plate, twice taking
his spectacles from off his nose, to wipe away the dew which nature
has shed upon them-- When I see him cast in the rosemary with an air
of disconsolation, which cries through my ears,-- O Toby! in what
corner of the world shall I seek thy fellow?-- Gracious powers! which
erst have opened the lips of the dumb in his distress, and made the
tongue of the stammerer speak plain-- when I shall arrive at this
dreaded page, deal not with me, then, with a stinted hand.

Chapter 3. LXIX. The corporal, who the night before had resolved in his
mind to supply the grand desideratum, of keeping up something like
an incessant firing upon the enemy during the heat of the attack,--
had no further idea in his fancy at that time, than a contrivance
of smoking tobacco against the town, out of one of my uncle Toby's
six field-pieces, which were planted on each side of his sentry-box;
the means of effecting which occurring to his fancy at the same time,
though he had pledged his cap, he thought it in no danger from the
miscarriage of his projects.

Upon turning it this way, and that, a little in his mind, he soon
began to find out, that by means of his two Turkish tobacco-pipes, with
the supplement of three smaller tubes of wash-leather at each of their lower
ends, to be tagg'd by the same number of tin-pipes fitted to the touch-holes,
and sealed with clay next the cannon, and then tied hermetically with
waxed silk at their several insertions into the Morocco tube,-- he
should be able to fire the six field-pieces all together, and with
the same ease as to fire one.---- Let no man say from what taggs and
jaggs hints may not be cut out for the advancement of human knowledge.

Let no man, who has read my father's first and second beds of justice, ever rise up and say again, from
collision of what kinds of bodies light may or may not be struck
out, to carry the arts and sciences up to perfection.-- Heaven! thou knowest
how I love them;-- thou knowest the secrets of my heart, and that
I would this moment give my shirt-- Thou art a fool, Shandy, says
Eugenius, for thou hast but a dozen in the world,-- and'twill break
thy set.-- No matter for that, Eugenius; I would give the shirt off
my back to be burnt into tinder, were it only to satisfy one feverish
enquirer, how many sparks at one good stroke, a good flint and steel
could strike into the tail of it.-- Think ye not that in striking
these in,-- he might, per-adventure, strike something out? as sure
as a gun.---- But this project, by the bye.

The corporal sat up the best part of the night, in bringing his to perfection;
and having made a sufficient proof of his cannon, with charging them to the
top with tobacco,-- he went with contentment to bed. Chapter 3. LXX. The corporal
had slipped out about ten minutes before my uncle Toby, in order to
fix his apparatus, and just give the enemy a shot or two before my
uncle Toby came.

He had drawn the six field-pieces for this end, all close up together
in front of my uncle Toby's sentry-box, leaving only an interval of
about a yard and a half betwixt the three, on the right and left,
for the convenience of charging,& c.-- and the sake possibly of two
batteries, which he might think double the honour of one.

In the rear and facing this opening, with his back to the door of the
sentry-box, for fear of being flanked, had the corporal wisely taken
his post:-- He held the ivory pipe, appertaining to the battery on
the right, betwixt the finger and thumb of his right hand,-- and the
ebony pipe tipp'd with silver, which appertained to the battery on
the left, betwixt the finger and thumb of the other-- and with his
right knee fixed firm upon the ground, as if in the front rank of
his platoon, was the corporal, with his Montero-cap upon his head,
furiously playing off his two cross batteries at the same time against
the counter-guard, which faced the counterscarp, where the attack
was to be made that morning.

His first intention, as I said, was no more than giving the enemy a single puff or two;-- but the
pleasure of the puffs, as well as the puffing, had insensibly got hold of the corporal, and drawn
him on from puff to puff, into the very height of the attack, by
the time my uncle Toby joined him.'Twas well for my father, that my
uncle Toby had not his will to make that day.

Chapter 3. LXXI. My uncle Toby took the ivory pipe out of the corporal's hand,-- looked at it for
half a minute, and returned it. In less than two minutes, my uncle Toby took the pipe from the corporal
again, and raised it half way to his mouth-- then hastily gave it
back a second time.

 But poor Harry little knew the difficulty of reticency
when the heart is full. He had intended to be very reticent when he came up to London, and
had, in fact, done nothing but talk about the missing man, as to whom he had declared that
he would altogether hold his tongue.

The reader must here be pleased to remember that Augustus Scarborough was perfectly well aware
of what had befallen his brother, and must, therefore, have known among other things of the
quarrel which had taken place in the streets. He knew, therefore, that Harry was concealing
his knowledge, and could make a fair guess at the state of the poor fellow's mind.

"He will guess," he had said to himself, "that he did not leave him for dead on the ground,
or the body would be there to tell the tale. But he must be ashamed of the part which he took
in the street-fight, and be anxious to conceal it. No doubt Mountjoy was the first offender,
but something had occurred which Annesley is unwilling should make its way either to his uncle's
ears, or to his father's, or to mine, or to the squire's,--or to those of Florence."

It was thus that Augustus Scarborough reasoned with himself when he asked Harry Annesley to
dine with him.

It was not supposed by any of his friends that Augustus Scarborough would continue to live
in the moderate chambers which he now occupied in the Temple; but he had as yet made no sign
of a desire to leave them. They were up two pair of stairs, and were not great in size; but
they were comfortable enough, and even luxurious, as a bachelor's abode.

"I've asked you to come alone," said Augustus, "because there is such a crowd of things to
be talked of about poor Mountjoy which are not exactly fitted for the common ear."

"Yes, indeed," said Harry, who did not, however, quite understand why it would be necessary
that the heir should discuss with him the affairs of his unfortunate brother. There had, no
doubt, been a certain degree of intimacy between them, but nothing which made it essential
that the captain's difficulties should be exposed to him. The matter which touched him most
closely was the love which both the men had borne to Florence Mountjoy; but Harry did not expect
that any allusion to Florence would be made on the present occasion.

"Did you ever hear of such a devil of a mess?" said Augustus.

"No, indeed. It is not only that he has disappeared--"

"That is as nothing when compared with all the other incidents of this romantic tale. Indeed,
it is the only natural thing in it. Given all the other circumstances, I should have foretold
his disappearance as a thing certain to occur. Why shouldn't such a man disappear, if he can?"

"But how has he done it?" replied Harry. "Where has he gone to? At this moment where is he?"

"Ah, if you will answer all those questions, and give your information in Scotland Yard, the
creditors, no doubt, will make up a handsome purse for you. Not that they will ever get a shilling
from him, though he were to be seen walking down St. James's Street to-morrow. But they are
a sanguine gentry, these holders of bills, and I really believe that if they could see him
they would embrace him with the warmest affection. In the mean time let us have some dinner,
and we will talk about poor Mountjoy when we have got rid of young Pitcher. Young Pitcher is
my laundress's son to the use of whose services I have been promoted since I have been known
to be the heir of Tretton."

Then they sat down and dined, and Augustus Scarborough made himself agreeable. The small dinner
was excellent of its kind, and the wine was all that it ought to be. During dinner not a word
was said as to Mountjoy, nor as to the affairs of the estate. Augustus, who was old for his
age, and had already practised himself much in London life, knew well how to make himself agreeable.
There was plenty to be said while young Pitcher was passing in and out of the room, so that
there appeared no awkward vacancies of silence while one course succeeded the other. The weather
was very hot, the grouse were very tempting, everybody was very dull, and members of Parliament
more stupid than anybody else; but a good time was coming. Would Harry come down to Tretton
and see the old governor? There was not much to offer him in the way of recreation, but when
September came the partridges would abound. Harry gave a half-promise that he would go to Tretton
for a week, and Augustus Scarborough expressed himself as much gratified. Harry at the moment
thought of no reason why he should not go to Tretton, and thus committed himself to the promise;
but he afterward felt that Tretton was of all places the last which he ought just at present
to visit.

At last Pitcher and the cheese were gone, and young Scarborough produced his cigars. "I want
to smoke directly I've done eating," he said. "Drinking goes with smoking as well as it does
with eating, so there need be no stop for that. Now, tell me, Annesley, what is it that you
think about Mountjoy?"

There was an abruptness in the question which for the moment struck Harry dumb. How was he
to say what he thought about Mountjoy Scarborough, even though he should have no feeling to
prevent him from expressing the truth? He knew, or thought that he knew, Mountjoy Scarborough
to be a thorough blackguard; one whom no sense of honesty kept from spending money, and who
was now a party to robbing his creditors without the slightest compunction,--for it was in
Harry's mind that Mountjoy and his father were in league together to save the property by rescuing
it from the hands of the Jews. He would have thought the same as to the old squire,--only that
the old squire had not interfered with him in reference to Florence Mountjoy.

And then there was present to his mind the brutal attack which had been made on himself in
the street. According to his views Mountjoy Scarborough was certainly a blackguard; but he
did not feel inclined quite to say so to the brother, nor was he perfectly certain as to his
host's honesty. It might be that the three Scarboroughs were all in a league together; and
if so, he had done very wrong, as he then remembered, to say that he would go down to Tretton.
When, therefore, he was asked the question he could only hold his tongue.

"I suppose you have some scruple in speaking because he's my brother? You may drop that altogether."

"I think that his career has been what the novel-reader would call romantic; but what I, who
am not one of them, should describe as unfortunate."

"Well, yes; taking it altogether it has been unfortunate. I am not a soft-hearted fellow, but
I am driven to pity him. The worst of it is that, had not my father been induced at last to
tell the truth, from most dishonest causes, he would not have been a bit better off than he
is. I doubt whether he could have raised another couple of thousand on the day when he went.
If he had done so then, and again more and more, to any amount you choose to think of, it would
have been the same with him."

"I suppose so."

"His lust for gambling was a bottomless quicksand, which no possible amount of winning could
ever have satiated. Let him enter his club with five thousand pounds at his banker's and no
misfortune could touch him. He being such as he is,--or, alas! for aught we know, such as he
was,--the escape which the property has had cannot but be regarded as very fortunate. I don't
care to talk much of myself in particular, though no wrong can have been done to a man more
infinite than that which my father contrived for me."

"I cannot understand your father," said Harry. In truth, there was something in Scarborough's
manner in speaking of his father which almost produced belief in Harry's mind. He began to
doubt whether Augustus was in the conspiracy.

"No, I should say not. It is hard to understand that an English gentleman should have the courage
to conceive such a plot, and the wit to carry it out. If Mountjoy had run only decently straight,
or not more than indecently crooked, I should have been a younger brother, practising law in
the Temple to the end of my days. The story of Esau and of Jacob is as nothing to it. But that
is not the most remarkable circumstance. My father, for purposes of his own, which includes
the absolute throwing over of Mountjoy's creditors, changes his plan, and is pleased to restore
to me that of which he had resolved to rob me. What father would dare to look in the face of
the son whom he had thus resolved to defraud? My father tells me the story with a gentle chuckle,
showing almost as much indifference to Mountjoy's ruin as to my recovered prosperity. He has
not a blush when he reveals it all. He has not a word to say, or, as far as I can see, a thought
as to the world's opinion. No doubt he is supposed to be dying. I do presume that three or
four months will see the end of him. In the mean time he takes it all as quietly as though
he had simply lent a five-pound note to Mountjoy out of my pocket."

"You, at any rate, will get your property?"

"Oh, yes; and that, no doubt, is his argument when he sees me. He is delighted to have me down
at Tretton, and, to tell the truth, I do not feel the slightest animosity toward him. But as
I look at him I think him to be the most remarkable old gentleman that the world has ever produced.
He is quite unconscious that I have any ground of complaint against him."

"He has probably thought that the circumstances of your brother's birth should not militate
against his prospects."

"But the law, my dear fellow," said Scarborough, getting up from his chair and standing with
his cigar between his finger and thumb,--"the law thinks otherwise. The making of all right
and wrong in this world depends on the law. The half-crown in my pocket is merely mine because
of the law. He did choose to marry my mother before I was born, but did not choose to go through
that ceremony before my brother's time. That may be a trifle to you, or to my moral feeling
may be a trifle; but because of that trifle all Tretton will be my property, and his attempt
to rob me of it was just the same as though he should break into a bank and steal what he found
there. He knows that just as well as I do, but to suit his own purposes he did it."

There was something in the way in which the young man spoke both of his father and mother which
made Harry's flesh creep. He could not but think of his own father and his own mother, and
his feelings in regard to them. But here this man was talking of the misdoings of the one parent
and the other with the most perfect sang-froid. "Of course I understand all that," said Harry.

"There is a manner of doing evil so easy and indifferent as absolutely to quell the general
feeling respecting it. A man shall tell you that he has committed a murder in a tone so careless
as to make you feel that a murder is nothing. I don't suppose my father can be punished for
his attempt to rob me of twenty thousand a year, and therefore he talks to me about it as though
it were a good joke. Not only that, but he expects me to receive it in the same way. Upon the
whole, he prevails. I find myself not in the least angry with him, and rather obliged to him
than otherwise for allowing me to be his eldest son."

"What must Mountjoy's feelings be!" said Harry.

"Exactly; what must be Mountjoy's feelings! There is no need to consider my father's, but poor
Mountjoy's! I don't suppose that he can be dead."

"I should think not."

"While a man is alive he can carry himself off, but when a fellow is dead it requires at least
one or probably two to carry him. Men do not wish to undertake such a work secretly unless
they've been concerned in the murder; and then there will have been a noise which must have
been heard, or blood which must have been seen, and the body will at last be forthcoming, or
some sign of its destruction. I do not think he be dead."

"I should hope not," said Harry, rather tamely, and feeling that he was guilty of a falsehood
by the manner in which he expressed his hope.

"When was it you saw him last?" Scarborough asked the question with an abruptness which was
predetermined, but which did not quite take Harry aback.

"About three months since--in London," said Harry, going back in his memory to the last meeting,
which had occurred before the squire had declared his purpose.

"Ah;--you haven't seen him, then, since he knew that he was nobody?" This he asked in an indifferent
tone, being anxious not to discover his purpose, but in doing so he gave Harry great credit
for his readiness of mind.

"I have not seen him since he heard the news which must have astonished him more than any one
else."

"I wonder," said Augustus, "how Florence Mountjoy has borne it?"

"Neither have I seen her. I have been at Cheltenham, but was not allowed to see her." This
he said with an assertion to himself that though he had lied as to one particular he would
not lie as to any other.

"I suppose she must have been much cut up by it all. I have half a mind to declare to myself
that she shall still have an opportunity of becoming the mistress of Tretton. She was always
afraid of Mountjoy, but I do not know that she ever loved him. She had become so used to the
idea of marrying him that she would have given herself up in mere obedience. I too think that
she might do as a wife, and I shall certainly make a better husband than Mountjoy would have done."

"Miss Mountjoy will certainly do as a wife for any one who may be lucky enough to get her,"
said Harry, with a certain tone of magnificence which at the moment he felt to be overstrained
and ridiculous.

"Oh yes; one has got to get her, as you call it, of course. You mean to say that you are supposed
to be in the running. That is your own lookout. I can only allege, on my own behalf, that it
has always been considered to be an old family arrangement that Florence Mountjoy shall marry
the heir to Tretton Park. I am in that position now, and I only throw it out as a hint that
I may feel disposed to follow out the family arrangement. Of course if other things come in
the way there will be an end of it. Come in." This last invitation was given in consequence
of a knock at the door. The door was opened, and there entered a policeman in plain clothes
named Prodgers, who seemed from his manner to be well acquainted with Augustus Scarborough.

The police for some time past had been very busy on the track of Mountjoy Scarborough, but
had not hitherto succeeded in obtaining any information. Such activity as had been displayed
cannot be procured without expense, and it had been understood in this case that old Mr. Scarborough
had refused to furnish the means. Something he had supplied at first, but had latterly declined
even to subscribe to a fund. He was not at all desirous, he said, that his son should be brought
back to the world, particularly as he had made it evident by his disappearance that he was
anxious to keep out of the way. "Why should I pay the fellows? It's no business of mine," he
had said to his son. And from that moment he had declined to do more than make up the first
subscription which had been suggested to him. But the police had been kept very busy, and it
was known that the funds had been supplied chiefly by Mr. Tyrrwhit. He was a resolute and persistent
man, and was determined to "run down" Mountjoy Scarborough, as he called it, if money would
enable him to do so. It was he who had appealed to the squire for assistance in this object,
and to him the squire had expressed his opinion that, as his son did not seem anxious to be
brought back, he should not interfere in the matter.

"Well, Prodgers, what news have you to-day?" asked Augustus.

"There is a man a-wandering about down in Skye, just here and there, with nothing in particular
to say for himself."

"What sort of a looking fellow is he?"

"Well, he's light, and don't come up to the captain's marks; but there's no knowing what disguises
a fellow will put on. I don't think he's got the captain's legs, and a man can't change his legs."

"Captain Scarborough would not remain loitering about in Skye where he would be known by half
the autumn tourists who saw him."

"That's just what I was saying to Wilkinson," said Prodgers. "Wilkinson seems to think that
a man may be anybody as long as nobody knows who he is. 'That ain't the captain,' said I."

"I'm afraid he's got out of England," said the captain's brother.

"There's no place where he can be run down like New York, or Paris, or Melbourne, and it's
them they mostly go to. We've wired 'em all three, and a dozen other ports of the kind. We
catches 'em mostly if they go abroad; but when they remains at home they're uncommon troublesome.
There was a man wandering about in County Donegal. We call Ireland at home, because we've so
much to do with their police since the Land League came up; but this chap was only an artist
who couldn't pay his bill. What do you think about it, Mr. Annesley?" said the policeman, turning
short round upon Harry, and addressing him a question. Why should the policeman even have known
his name?

"Who? I? I don't think about it at all. I have no means of thinking about it."

"Because you have been so busy down there at the Yard, I thought that, as you was asking so
many questions, you was, perhaps, interested in the matter."

"My friend Mr. Annesley," said Augustus, "was acquainted with Captain Scarborough, as he is
with me."

"It did seem as though he was more than usually interested, all the same," said the policeman.

"I am more than usually interested," replied Harry; "but I do not know that I am going to give
you my reason. As to his present existence I know absolutely nothing."

"I dare say not. If you'd any information as was reliable I dare say as it would be forthcoming.
Well, Mr. Scarborough, you may be sure of this: if we can get upon his trail we'll do so, and
I think we shall. There isn't a port that hasn't been watched from two days after his disappearance,
and there isn't a port as won't be watched as soon as any English steamer touches 'em. We've
got our eyes out, and we means to use 'em. Good-night, Mr. Scarborough; good-night, Mr. Annesley,"
and he bobbed his head to our friend Harry. "You say as there is a reason as is unknown. Perhaps
it won't be unknown always. Good-night, gentlemen." Then Constable Prodgers left the room.

Harry had been disconcerted by the policeman's remarks, and showed that it was so as soon as
he was alone with Augustus Scarborough. "I'm afraid you think the man intended to be impertinent,"
said Augustus.

"No doubt he did, but such men are allowed to be impertinent."

"He sees an enemy, of course, in every one who pretends to know more than he knows himself,--or,
indeed, in every one who does not. You said something about having a reason of your own, and
he at once connected you with Mountjoy's disappearance. Such creatures are necessary, but from
the little I've seen of them I do not think that they make the best companions in the world.
I shall leave Mr. Prodgers to carry on his business to the man who employs him,--namely, Mr.
Tyrrwhit,--and I advise you to do the same."

Soon after that Harry Annesley took his leave, but he could not divest himself of an opinion
that both the policeman and his host had thought that he had some knowledge respecting the
missing man. Augustus Scarborough had said no word to that effect, but there had been a something
in his manner which had excited suspicion in Harry's mind. And then Augustus had declared his
purpose of offering his hand and fortune to Florence Mountjoy. He to be suitor to Florence,--he,
so soon after Mountjoy had been banished from the scene! And why should he have been told of
it?--he, of whose love for the girl he could not but think that Augustus Scarborough had been
aware. Then, much perturbed in his mind, he resolved, as he returned to his lodgings, that
he would go down to Cheltenham on the following day.

CHAPTER VI.

HARRY ANNESLEY TELLS HIS SECRET.

Harry hurried down to Cheltenham, hardly knowing what he was going to do or say when he got
there. He went to the hotel and dined alone. "What's all this that's up about Captain Mountjoy?"
said a stranger, coming and whispering to him at his table.

The inquirer was almost a stranger, but Harry did know his name. It was Mr. Baskerville, the
hunting man. Mr. Baskerville was not rich, and not especially popular, and had no special amusement
but that of riding two nags in the winter along the roads of Cheltenham in the direction which
the hounds took. It was still summer, and the nags, who had been made to do their work in London,
were picking up a little strength in idleness, or, as Mr. Baskerville called it, getting into
condition. In the mean time Mr. Baskerville amused himself as well as he could by lying in
bed and playing lawn-tennis. He sometimes dined at the hotel, in order that the club might
think that he was entertained at friends' houses; but the two places were nearly the same to
him, as he could achieve a dinner and half a pint of wine for five or six shillings at each
of them. A more empty existence, or, one would be inclined to say, less pleasurable, no one
could pass; but he had always a decent coat on his back and a smile on his face, and five shillings
in his pocket with which to pay for his dinner. His asking what was up about Scarborough showed,
at any rate, that he was very backward in the world's news.

"I believe he has vanished," said Harry.

"Oh yes, of course he's vanished. Everybody knows that--he vanished ever so long ago; but where
is he?"

"If you can tell them in Scotland Yard they will be obliged to you."

"I suppose it is true the police are after him? Dear me! Forty thousand a year! This is a very
queer story about the property, isn't it?"

"I don't know the story exactly, and therefore can hardly say whether it is queer or not."

"But about the younger son? People say that the father has contrived that the younger son shall
have the money. What I hear is that the whole property is to be divided, and that the captain
is to have half, on conditions that he keeps out of the way. But I am sure that you know more
about it. You used to be intimate with both the brothers. I have seen you down here with the
captain. Where is he?" And again he whispered into Harry's ear. But he could not have selected
any subject more distasteful, and, therefore, Harry repulsed Mr. Baskerville not in the most
courteous manner.

"Hang it! what airs that fellow gives himself," he said to another friend of the same kidney.
"That's young Annesley, the son of a twopenny-halfpenny parson down in Hertfordshire. The kind
of ways these fellows put on now are unbearable. He hasn't got a horse to ride on, but to hear
him talk you'd think he was mounted three days a week."

"He's heir to old Prosper, of Buston Hall."

"How's that? But is he? I never heard that before. What's Buston Hall worth?" Then Mr. Baskerville
made up his mind to be doubly civil to Harry Annesley the next time he saw him.

Harry had to consider on that night in what manner he would endeavor to see Florence Mountjoy
on the next day. He was thoroughly discontented with himself as he walked about the streets
of Cheltenham. He had now not only allowed the disappearance of Scarborough to pass by without
stating when and where, and how he had last seen him, but had directly lied on the subject.
He had told the man's brother that he had not seen him for some weeks previous, whereas to
have concealed his knowledge on such a subject was in itself held to be abominable. He was
ashamed of himself, and the more so because there was no one to whom he could talk openly on
the matter. And it seemed to him as though all whom he met questioned him as to the man's disappearance,
as if they suspected him. What was the man to him, or the man's guilt, or his father, that
he should be made miserable? The man's attack upon him had been ferocious in its nature,--so
brutal that when he had escaped from Mountjoy Scarborough's clutches there was nothing for
him but to leave him lying in the street where, in his drunkenness, he had fallen. And now,
in consequence of this, misery had fallen upon himself. Even this empty-headed fellow Baskerville,
a man the poverty of whose character Harry perfectly understood, had questioned him about Mountjoy
Scarborough. It could not, he thought, be possible that Baskerville could have had any reasons
for suspicion, and yet the very sound of the inquiry stuck in his ears.

On the next morning, at eleven o'clock, he knocked at Mrs. Mountjoy's house in Mountpellier
Place and asked for the elder lady. Mrs. Mountjoy was out, and Harry at once inquired for Florence.
The servant at first seemed to hesitate, but at last showed Harry into the dining-room. There
he waited five minutes, which seemed to him to be half an hour, and then Florence came to him.
"Your mother is not at home," he said, putting out his hand.

"No, Mr. Annesley, but I think she will be back soon. Will you wait for her?"

"I do not know whether I am not glad that she should be out. Florence, I have something that
I must tell you."

"Something that you must tell me!"

He had called her Florence once before, on a happy afternoon which he well remembered, but
he was not thinking of that now. Her name, which was always in his mind, had come to him naturally,
as though he had no time to pick and choose about names in the importance of the communication
which he had to make. "Yes. I don't believe that you were ever really engaged to your cousin
Mountjoy."

"No, I never was," she answered, briskly. Harry Annesley was certainly a handsome man, but
no young man living ever thought less of his own beauty. He had fair, wavy hair, which he was
always submitting to some barber, very much to the unexpressed disgust of poor Florence; because
to her eyes the longer the hair grew the more beautiful was the wearer of it.

There was a peculiar brightness in his eye, which would have seemed to denote something absolutely
great in his character had it not been for the wavering indecision of his mouth. There was
as it were a vacillation in his lips which took away from the manliness of his physiognomy.
Florence, who regarded his face as almost divine, was yet conscious of some weakness about
his mouth which she did not know how to interpret. But yet, without knowing why it was so,
she was accustomed to expect from him doubtful words, half expressed words, which would not
declare to her his perfected thoughts--as she would have them declared. He was six feet high,
but neither broad nor narrow, nor fat nor thin, but a very Apollo in Florence's eye. To the
elders who knew him the quintessence of his beauty lay in the fact that he was altogether unconscious
of it. He was a man who counted nothing on his personal appearance for the performance of those
deeds which he was most anxious to achieve. The one achievement now essentially necessary to
his happiness was the possession of Florence Mountjoy; but it certainly never occurred to him
that he was more likely to obtain this because he was six feet high, or because his hair waved
becomingly.

"I have supposed so," he said, in answer to her last assertion.

"You ought to have known it for certain. I mean to say that, had I ever been engaged to my
cousin, I should have been miserable at such a moment as this. I never should have given him
up because of the gross injustice done to him about the property. But his disappearance in
this dreadful way would, I think, have killed me. As it is, I can think of nothing else, because
he is my cousin."

"It is very dreadful," said Harry. "Have you any idea what can have happened to him?"

"Not in the least. Have you?"

"None at all, but--"

"But what?"

"I was the last person who saw him."

"You saw him last!"

"At least, I know no one who saw him after me."

"Have you told them?"

"I have told no one but you. I have come down here to Cheltenham on purpose to tell you."

"Why me?" she said, as though struck with fear at such an assertion on his part.

"I must tell some one, and I have not known whom else to tell. His father appears not at all
anxious about him. His brother I do not altogether trust. Were I to go to these men, who are
only looking after their money, I should be communicating with his enemies. Your mother already
regards me as his enemy. If I told the police I should simply be brought into a court of justice,
where I should be compelled to mention your name."

"Why mine?"

"I must begin the story from the beginning. One night I was coming home in London very late,
about two o'clock, when whom should I meet in the street suddenly but Mountjoy Scarborough.
It came out afterward that he had then been gambling; but when he encountered me he was intoxicated.
He took me suddenly by the collar and shook me violently, and did his best to maltreat me.
What words were spoken I cannot remember; but his conduct to me was as that of a savage beast.
I struggled with him in the street as a man would struggle who is attacked by a wild dog. I
think that he did not explain the cause of his hatred, though, of course, my memory as to what
took place at that moment is disturbed and imperfect; but I did know in my heart why it was
that he had quarrelled with me."

"Why was it?" Florence asked.

"Because he thought that I had ventured to love you."

"No, no!" shrieked Florence; "he could not have thought that."

"He did think so, and he was right enough. If I have never said so before, I am bound at any
rate to say it now." He paused for a moment, but she made him no answer. "In the struggle between
us he fell on the pavement against a rail;--and then I left him."

"Well?"

"He has never been heard of since. On the following day, in the afternoon, I left London for
Buston; but nothing had been then heard of his disappearance. I neither knew of it nor suspected
it. The question is, when others were searching for him, was I bound to go to the police and
declare what I had suffered from him that night? Why should I connect his going with the outrage
which I had suffered?"

"But why not tell it all?"

"I should have been asked why he had quarrelled with me. Ought I to have said that I did not
know? Ought I to have pretended that there was no cause? I did know, and there was a cause.
It was because he thought that I might prevail with you, now that he was a beggar, disowned
by his own father."

"I would never have given him up for that," said Florence.

"But do you not see that your name would have been brought in,--that I should have had to speak
of you as though I thought it possible that you loved me?" Then he paused, and Florence sat
silent. But another thought struck him now. It occurred to him that under the plea put forward
he would appear to seek shelter from his silence as to her name. He was aware how anxious he
was on his own behalf not to mention the occurrence in the street, and it seemed that he was
attempting to escape under the pretence of a fear that her name would be dragged in. "But independently
of that I do not see why I should be subjected to the annoyance of letting it be known that
I was thus attacked in the streets. And the time has now gone by. It did not occur to me when
first he was missed that the matter would have been of such importance. Now it is too late."

"I suppose that you ought to have told his father."

"I think that I ought to have done so. But at any rate I have come to explain it all to you.
It was necessary that I should tell some one. There seems to be no reason to suspect that the
man has been killed."

"Oh, I hope not; I hope not that."

"He has been spirited away--out of the way of his creditors. For myself I think that it has
all been done with his father's connivance. Whether his brother be in the secret or not I cannot
tell, but I suspect he is. There seems to be no doubt that Captain Scarborough himself has
run so overhead into debt as to make the payment of his creditors impossible by anything short
of the immediate surrender of the whole property. Some month or two since they all thought
that the squire was dying, and that there would be nothing to do but to sell the property which
would then be Mountjoy's, and pay themselves. Against this the dying man has rebelled, and
has come, as it were, out of the grave to disinherit the son who has already contrived to disinherit
himself. It is all an effort to save Tretton."

"But it is dishonest," said Florence.

"No doubt about it. Looking at it any way it is dishonest, Either the inheritance must belong
to Mountjoy still, or it could not have been his when he was allowed to borrow money upon it."

"I cannot understand it. I thought it was entailed upon him. Of course it is nothing to me.
It never could have been anything."

"But now the creditors declare that they have been cheated, and assert that Mountjoy is being
kept out of the way to aid old Mr. Scarborough in the fraud. I cannot but say that I think
it is so. But why he should have attacked me just at the moment of his going, or why, rather,
he should have gone immediately after he had attacked me, I cannot say. I have no concern whatever
with him or his money, though I hope--I hope that I may always have much with you. Oh, Florence,
you surely have known what has been within my heart."

To this appeal she made no response, but sat awhile considering what she would say respecting
Mountjoy Scarborough and his affairs.

"Am I to keep all this a secret?" she asked him at last.

"You shall consider that for yourself. I have not exacted from you any silence on the matter.
You may tell whom you please, and I shall not consider that I have any ground of complaint
against you. Of course for my own sake I do not wish it to be told. A great injury was done
me, and I do not desire to be dragged into this, which would be another injury. I suspect that
Augustus Scarborough knows more than he pretends, and I do not wish to be brought into the
mess by his cunning. Whether you will tell your mother you must judge yourself."

"I shall tell nobody unless you bid me." At that moment the door of the room was opened, and
Mrs. Mountjoy entered, with a frown upon her brow. She had not yet given up all hope that Mountjoy
might return, and that the affairs of Tretton might be made to straighten themselves.

"Mamma, Mr. Annesley is here."

"So I perceive, my dear."

"I have come to your daughter to tell her how dearly I love her," said Harry, boldly.

"Mr. Annesley, you should have come to me before speaking to my daughter."

"Then I shouldn't have seen her at all."

"You should have left that as it might be. It is not at all a proper thing that a young gentleman
should come and address a young lady in this way behind her only parent's back."

"I asked for you, and I did not know that you would not be at home."

"You should have gone away at once--at once. You know how terribly the family is cut up by
this great misfortune to our cousin Mountjoy. Mountjoy Scarborough has been long engaged to
Florence."

"No, mamma; no, never."

"At any rate, Mr. Annesley knows all about it. And that knowledge ought to have kept him away
at the present moment. I must beg him to leave us now."

Then Harry took his hat and departed; but he had great consolation in feeling that Florence
had not repudiated his love, which she certainly would have done had she not loved him in return.
She had spoken no word of absolute encouragement, but there had much more of encouragement
than of repudiation in her manner.

CHAPTER VII.

HARRY ANNESLEY GOES TO TRETTON.

Harry had promised to go down to Tretton, and when the time came Augustus Scarborough did not
allow him to escape from the visit. He explained to him that in his father's state of health
there would be no company to entertain him; that there was only a maiden sister of his father's
staying in the house, and that he intended to take down into the country with him one Septimus
Jones, who occupied chambers on the same floor with him in London, and whom Annesley knew to
be young Scarborough's most intimate friend. "There will be a little shooting," he said, "and
I have bought two or three horses, which you and Jones can ride. Cannock Chase is one of the
prettiest parts of England, and as you care for scenery you can get some amusement out of that.
You'll see my father, and hear, no doubt, what he has got to say for himself. He is not in
the least reticent in speaking of my brother's affairs." There was a good deal in this which
was not agreeable. Miss Scarborough was sister to Mrs. Mountjoy as well as to the squire, and
had been one of the family party most anxious to assure the marriage of Florence and the captain.
The late General Mountjoy had been supposed to be a great man in his way, but had died before
Tretton had become as valuable as it was now. Hence the eldest son had been christened with
his name, and much of the Mountjoy prestige still clung to the family. But Harry did not care
much about the family except so far as Florence was concerned. And then he had not been on
peculiarly friendly terms with Septimus Jones, who had always been submissive to Augustus;
and, now that Augustus was a rich man and could afford to buy horses, was likely to be more
submissive than ever.

He went down to Tretton alone early in September, and when he reached the house he found that
the two young men were out shooting. He asked for his own room, but was instead immediately
taken to the old squire, whom he found lying on a couch in a small dressing-room, while his
sister, who had been reading to him, was by his side. After the usual greetings Harry made
some awkward apology as to his intrusion at the sick man's bedside. "Why, I ordered them to
bring you in here," said the squire; "you can't very well call that intrusion. I have no idea
of being shut up from the world before they nail me down in my coffin."

"That will be a long time first, we all hope," said his sister.

"Bother! you hope it, but I don't know that any one else does;--I don't for one. And if I did,
what's the good of hoping? I have a couple of diseases, either of which is enough to kill a
horse." Then he mentioned his special maladies in a manner which made Harry shrink. "What are
they talking about in London just at present?" he asked.

"Just the old set of subjects," said Harry.

"I suppose they have got tired of me and my iniquities?" Harry could only smile and shake his
head. "There has been such a complication of romances that one expects the story to run a little
more than the ordinary nine days."

"Men still do talk about Mountjoy."

"And what are they saying? Augustus declares that you are especially interested on the subject."

"I don't know why I should be," said Harry.

"Nor I either. When a fellow becomes no longer of any service to either man, woman, or beast,
I do not know why any should take an interest in him. I suppose you didn't lend him money?"

"I was not likely to do that, sir."

"Then I cannot conceive how it can interest you whether he be in London or Kamtchatka. It does
not interest me the least in the world. Were he to turn up here it would be a trouble; and
yet they expect me to subscribe largely to a fund for finding him. What good could he do me
if he were found?"

"Oh, John, he is your son," said Miss Scarborough.

"And would be just as good a son as Augustus, only that he has turned out uncommonly badly.
I have not the slightest feeling in the world as to his birth, and so I think I showed pretty
plainly. But nothing could stop him in his course, and therefore I told the truth, that's all."
In answer to this, Harry found it quite impossible to say a word, but got away to his bedroom
and dressed for dinner as quickly as possible.

While he was still thus employed Augustus came into the room still dressed in his shooting-clothes.
"So you've seen my father," he said.

"Yes, I saw him."

"And what did he say to you about Mountjoy?"

"Little or nothing that signifies. He seems to think it unreasonable that he should be asked
to pay for finding him, seeing that the creditors expect to get the advantage of his presence
when found."

"He is about right there."

"Oh yes; but still he is his father. It may be that it would be expected that he should interest
himself in finding him."

"Upon my word I don't agree with you. If a thousand a year could be paid to keep Mountjoy out
of the way I think it would be well expended."

"But you were acting with the police."

"Oh, the police! What do the police know about it? Of course I talk it all over with them.
They have not the smallest idea where the man is, and do not know how to go to work to discover
him. I don't say that my father is judicious in his brazen-faced opposition to all inquiry.
He should pretend to be a little anxious--as I do. Not that there would be any use now in pretending
to keep up appearances. He has declared himself utterly indifferent to the law, and has defied
the world. Never mind, old fellow, we shall eat the more dinner, only I must go and prepare
myself for it."

At dinner Harry found only Septimus Jones, Augustus Scarborough, and his aunt. Miss Scarborough
said a good deal about her brother, and declared him to be much better. "Of course you know,
Augustus, that Sir William Brodrick was down here for two days."

"Only fancy," replied he, "what one has to pay for two days of Sir William Brodrick in the
country!"

"What can it matter?" said the generous spinster.

"It matters exactly so many hundred pounds; but no one will begrudge it if he does so many
hundred pounds' worth of good."

"It will show, at any rate, that we have had the best advice," said the lady.

"Yes, it will show;--that is exactly what people care about. What did Sir William say?" Then
during the first half of dinner a prolonged reference was made to Mr. Scarborough's maladies,
and to Sir William's opinion concerning them. Sir William had declared that Mr. Scarborough's
constitution was the most wonderful thing that he had ever met in his experience. In spite
of the fact that Mr. Scarborough's body was one mass of cuts and bruises and faulty places,
and that nothing would keep him going except the wearing of machinery which he was unwilling
to wear, yet the facilities for much personal enjoyment were left to him, and Sir William declared
that, if he would only do exactly as he were told, he might live for the next five years. "But
everybody knows that he won't do anything that he is told," said Augustus, in a tone of voice
which by no means expressed extreme sorrow.

From his father he led the conversation to the partridges, and declared his conviction that,
with a little trouble and some expense, a very good head of game might be got up at Tretton.
"I suppose it wouldn't cost much?" said Jones, who beyond ten shillings to a game-keeper never
paid sixpence for whatever shooting came in his way.

"I don't know what you call much," said Augustus, "but I think it may be done for three or
four hundred a year. I should like to calculate how many thousand partridges at that rate Sir
William has taken back in his pocket."

"What does it matter?" asked Miss Scarborough.

"Only as a speculation. Of course my father, while he lives, is justified in giving his whole
income to doctors if he likes it; but one gets into a manner of speaking about him as though
he had done a good deal with his money in which he was not justified."

"Don't talk in that way, Augustus."

"My dear aunt, I am not at all inclined to be more open-mouthed than he is. Only reflect what
it was that he was disposed to do with me, and the good-humor with which I have borne it!"

"I think I should hold my tongue about it," said Harry Annesley.

"And I think that in my place you would do no such thing. To your nature it would be almost
impossible to hold your tongue. Your sense of justice would be so affronted that you would
feel yourself compelled to discuss the injury done to you with all your intimate friends. But
with your father your quarrel would be eternal. I made nothing of it, and, indeed, if he pertinaciously
held his tongue on the subject, so should I."

"But because he talks," said Harry, "why should you?"

"Why should he not?" said Septimus Jones. "Upon my word I don't see the justice of it."

"I am not speaking of justice, but of feeling."

"Upon my word I wish you would hold your tongues about it; at any rate till my back is turned,"
said the old lady.

Then Augustus finished the conversation. "I am determined to treat it all as though it were
a joke, and, as a joke, one to be spoken of lightly. It was a strong measure, certainly, this
attempt to rob me of twenty or thirty thousand pounds a year. But it was done in favor of my
brother, and therefore let it pass. I am at a loss to conceive what my father has done with
his money. He hasn't given Mountjoy, at any rate, more than a half of his income for the last
five or six years, and his own personal expenses are very small. Yet he tells me that he has
the greatest difficulty in raising a thousand pounds, and positively refuses in his present
difficulties to add above five hundred a year to my former allowance. No father who had thoroughly
done his duty by his son, could speak in a more fixed and austere manner. And yet he knows
that every shilling will be mine as soon as he goes." The servant who was waiting upon them
had been in and out of the room while this was said, and must have heard much of it. But to
that Augustus seemed to be quite indifferent. And, indeed, the whole family story was known
to every servant in the house. It is true that gentlemen and ladies who have servants do not
usually wish to talk about their private matters before all the household, even though the
private matters may be known; but this household was unlike all others in that respect. There
was not a housemaid about the rooms or a groom in the stables who did not know how terrible
a reprobate their master had been.

"You will see your father before you go to bed?" Miss Scarborough said to her nephew as she
left the room.

"Certainly, if he will send to say that he wishes it."

"He does wish it, most anxiously."

"I believe that to be your imagination. At any rate, I will come--say in an hour's time. He
would be just as pleased to see Harry Annesley, for the matter of that, or Mr. Grey, or the
inspector of police. Any one whom he could shock, or pretend to shock, by the peculiarity of
his opinions, would do as well." By that time, however, Miss Scarborough had left the room.

Then the three men sat and talked, and discussed the affairs of the family generally. New leases
had just been granted for adding manufactories to the town of Tretton: and as far as outward
marks of prosperity went all was prosperous. "I expect to have a water-mill on the lawn before
long," said Augustus. "These mechanics have it all their own way. If they were to come and
tell me that they intended to put up a wind-mill in my bedroom to-morrow morning, I could only
take off my hat to them. When a man offers you five per cent. where you've only had four, he
is instantly your lord and master. It doesn't signify how vulgar he is, or how insolent, or
how exacting. Associations of the tenderest kind must all give way to trade. But the shooting
which lies to the north and west of us is, I think, safe for the present. I suppose I must
go and see what my father wants, or I shall be held to have neglected my duty to my affectionate
parent."

"Capital fellow, Augustus Scarborough," said Jones, as soon as their host had left them.

"I was at Cambridge with him, and he was popular there."

"He'll be more popular now that he's the heir to Tretton. I don't know any fellow that I can
get along better with than Scarborough. I think you were a little hard upon him about his father,
you know."

"In his position he ought to hold his tongue."

"It's the strangest thing that has turned up in the whole course of my experience. You see,
if he didn't talk about it people wouldn't quite understand what it was that his father has
done. It's only matter of report now, and the creditors, no doubt, do believe that when old
Scarborough goes off the hooks they will be able to walk in and take possession. He has got
to make the world think that he is the heir, and that will go a long way. You may be sure he
doesn't talk as he does without having a reason for it. He's the last man I know to do anything
without a reason."

The evening dragged along very slowly while Jones continued to tell all that he knew of his
friend's character. But Augustus Scarborough did not return, and soon after ten o'clock, when
Harry Annesley could smoke no more cigars, and declared that he had no wish to begin upon brandy-and-water
after his wine, he went to his bed.

CHAPTER VIII.

HARRY ANNESLEY TAKES A WALK.

"There was the devil to pay with my father last night after I went to him," said Scarborough
to Harry next morning. "He now and then suffers agonies of pain, and it is the most difficult
thing in the world to get him right again. But anything equal to his courage I never before met."

"How is he this morning?"

"Very weak and unable to exert himself. But I cannot say that he is otherwise much the worse.
You won't see him this morning; but to-morrow you will, or next day. Don't you be shy about
going to him when he sends for you. He likes to show the world that he can bear his sufferings
with a light heart, and is ready to die to-morrow without a pang or a regret. Who was the fellow
who sent for a fellow to let him see how a Christian could die? I can fancy my father doing
the same thing, only there would be nothing about Christianity in the message. He would bid
you come and see a pagan depart in peace, and would be very unhappy if he thought that your
dinner would be disturbed by the ceremony. Now come down to breakfast, and then we'll go out
shooting."

For three days Harry remained at Tretton, and ate and drank, and shot and rode, always in young
Scarborough's company. During this time he did not see the old squire, and understood from
Miss Scarborough's absence that he was still suffering from his late attack. The visit was
to be prolonged for one other day, and he was told that on that day the squire would send for
him. "I'm sick of these eternal partridges," said Augustus. "No man should ever shoot partridges
two days running. Jones can go out by himself. He won't have to tip the game-keeper any more
for an additional day, and so it will be all gain to him. You'll see my father in the afternoon
after lunch, and we will go and take a walk now."

Harry started for his walk, and his companion immediately began again about the property. "I'm
beginning to think," said he, "that it's nearly all up with the governor. These attacks come
upon him worse and worse, and always leave him absolutely prostrate. Then he will do nothing
to prevent them. To assure himself a week of life, he will not endure an hour of discomfort.
It is plucky, you know."

"He is in all respects as brave a man as I have known."

"He sets God and man at absolute defiance, and always does it with the most profound courtesy.
If he goes to the infernal regions he will insist upon being the last of the company to enter
the door. And he will be prepared with something good-humored to say as soon as he has been
ushered in. He was very much troubled about you yesterday."

"What has he to say of me?"

"Nothing in the least uncivil; but he has an idea in his head which nothing on earth will put
out of it, and in which, but for your own word, I should be inclined to agree." Harry, when
this was said, stood still on the mountain-side, and looked full into his companion's face.
He felt at the moment that the idea had some reference to Mountjoy Scarborough and his disappearance.
They were together on the heathy, unenclosed ground of Cannock Chase, and had already walked
some ten or twelve miles. "He thinks you know where Mountjoy is."

"Why should I know?"

"Or at any rate that you have seen him since any of us. He professes not to care a straw for
Mountjoy or his whereabouts, and declares himself under obligation to those who have contrived
his departure. Nevertheless, he is curious."

"What have I to do with Mountjoy Scarborough?"

"That's just the question. What have you to do with him? He suggests that there have been words
between you as to Florence, which has caused Mountjoy to vanish. I don't profess to explain
anything beyond that,--nor, indeed, do I profess to agree with my father. But the odd thing
is that Prodgers, the policeman, has the same thing running in his head."

"Because I have shown some anxiety about your brother in Scotland Yard."

"No doubt; Prodgers says that you've shown more anxiety than was to be expected from a mere
acquaintance. I quite acknowledge that Prodgers is as thick-headed an idiot as you shall catch
on a summer's day; but that's his opinion. For myself, I know your word too well to doubt it."
Harry walked on in silence, thinking, or trying to think, what, on the spur of the moment,
he had better do. He was minded to speak out the whole truth, and declare to himself that it
was nothing to him what Augustus Scarborough might say or think. And there was present to him
a feeling that his companion was dealing unfairly with him, and was endeavoring in some way
to trap him and lead him into a difficulty. But he had made up his mind, as it were, not to
know anything of Mountjoy Scarborough, and to let those five minutes in the street be as though
they had never been. He had been brutally attacked, and had thought it best to say nothing
on the subject. He would not allow his secret, such as it was, to be wormed out of him. Scarborough
was endeavoring to extort from him that which he had resolved to conceal; and he determined
at last that he would not become a puppet in his hands. "I don't see why you should care a
straw about it," said Scarborough.

"Nor do I."

"At any rate you repeat your denial. It will be well that I should let my father know that
he is mistaken, and also that ass Prodgers. Of course, with my father it is sheer curiosity.
Indeed, if he thought that you were keeping Mountjoy under lock and key, he would only admire
your dexterity in so preserving him. Any bold line of action that was contrary to the law recommends
itself to his approbation. But Prodgers has a lurking idea that he should like to arrest you."

"What for?"

"Simply because he thinks you know something that he doesn't know. As he's a detective, that,
in his mind, is quite enough for arresting any man. I may as well give him my assurance, then,
that he is mistaken."

"Why should your assurance go for more than mine? Give him nothing of the kind."

"I may give him, at any rate, my assurance that I believe your word."

"If you do believe it, you can do so."

"But you repeat your assertion that you saw nothing of Mountjoy just before his disappearance?"

"This is an amount of cross-questioning which I do not take in good part, and to which I will
not submit." Here Scarborough affected to laugh loudly. "I know nothing of your brother, and
care almost as little. He has professed to admire a young lady to whom I am not indifferent,
and has, I believe, expressed a wish to make her his wife. He is also her cousin, and the lady
in question has, no doubt, been much interested about him. It is natural that she should be so."

"Quite natural--seeing that she has been engaged to him for twelve months."

"Of that I know nothing. But my interest about your brother has been because of her. You can
explain all this about your brother if you please, or can let it alone. But for myself, I decline
to answer any more questions. If Prodgers thinks that he can arrest me, let him come and try."

"The idea of your flying into a passion because I have endeavored to explain it all to you!
At any rate I have your absolute denial, and that will enable me to deal both with my father
and Prodgers." To this Harry made no answer, and the two young men walked back to Tretton together
without many more words between them.

When Harry had been in the house about half an hour, and had already eaten his lunch, somewhat
sulkily, a message came to him from Miss Scarborough requiring his presence. He went to her,
and was told by her that Mr. Scarborough would now see him. He was aware that Mr. Scarborough
never saw Septimus Jones, and that there was something peculiar in the sending of this message
to him. Why should the man who was supposed to have but a few weeks to live be so anxious to
see one who was comparatively a stranger to him? "I am so glad you have come in before dinner,
Mr. Annesley, because my brother is so anxious to see you, and I am afraid you'll go too early
in the morning." Then he followed her, and again found Mr. Scarborough on a couch in the same
room to which he had been first introduced.

"I've had a sharp bout of it since I saw you before," said the sick man.

"So we heard, sir."

"There is no saying how many or rather how few bouts of this kind it will take to polish me
off. But I think I am entitled to some little respite now. The apothecary from Tretton was
here this morning, and I believe has done me just as much good as Sir William Brodrick. His
charge will be ten shillings, while Sir William demanded three hundred pounds. But it would
be mean to go out with no one but the Tretton apothecary to look after one."

"I suppose Sir William's knowledge has been of some service."

"His dexterity with his knife has been of more. So you and Augustus have been quarrelling about
Mountjoy?"

"Not that I know of."

"He says so; and I believe his word on such a subject sooner than yours. You are likely to
quarrel without knowing it, and he is not. He thinks that you know what has become of Mountjoy."

"Does he? Why should he think so, when I told him that I know nothing? I tell you that I know
absolutely nothing. I am ignorant whether he is dead or alive."

"He is not dead," said the father.

"I suppose not; but I know nothing about him. Why your second son--"

"You mean my eldest according to law,--or rather my only son!"

"Why Augustus Scarborough," continued Harry Annesley, "should take upon himself to suspect
that I know aught of his brother I cannot say. He has some cock-and-bull story about a policeman
whom he professes to believe to be ignorant of his own business. This policeman, he says, is
anxious to arrest me."

"To make you give evidence before a magistrate," said his father.

"He did not dare to tell me that he suspected me himself."

"There;--I knew you had quarrelled."

"I deny it altogether. I have not quarrelled with Augustus Scarborough. He is welcome to his
suspicions if he chooses to entertain them. I should have liked him better if he had not brought
me down to Tretton, so as to extract from me whatever he can. I shall be more guarded in future
in speaking of Mountjoy Scarborough; but to you I give my positive assurance, which I do not
doubt you will believe, that I know nothing respecting him." An honest indignation gleamed
in his eyes as he spoke; but still there were the signs of that vacillation about his mouth
which Florence had been able to read, but not to interpret.

"Yes," said the squire, after a pause, "I believe you. You haven't that kind of ingenuity which
enables a man to tell a lie and stick to it. I have. It's a very great gift if a man be enabled
to restrain his appetite for lying." Harry could only smile when he heard the squire's confession.
"Only think how I have lied about Mountjoy; and how successful my lies might have been, but
for his own folly!"

"People do judge you a little harshly now," said Harry.

"What's the odd's? I care nothing for their judgment; I endeavored to do justice to my own
child, and very nearly did it. I was very nearly successful in rectifying the gross injustice
of the world. Why should a little delay in a ceremony in which he had no voice have robbed
him of his possessions? I determined that he should have Tretton, and I determined also to
make it up to Augustus by denying myself the use of my own wealth. Things have gone wrongly
not by my own folly. I could not prevent the mad career which Mountjoy has run; but do you
think that I am ashamed because the world knows what I have done? Do you suppose my death-bed
will be embittered by the remembrance that I have been a liar? Not in the least. I have done
the best I could for my two sons, and in doing it have denied myself many advantages. How many
a man would have spent his money on himself, thinking nothing of his boys, and then have gone
to his grave with all the dignity of a steady Christian father! Of the two men I prefer myself;
but I know that I have been a liar."

What was Harry Annesley to say in answer to such an address as this? There was the man, stretched
on his bed before him, haggard, unshaved, pale, and grizzly, with a fire in his eyes, but weakness
in his voice,--bold, defiant, self-satisfied, and yet not selfish. He had lived through his
life with the one strong resolution of setting the law at defiance in reference to the distribution
of his property; but chiefly because he had thought the law to be unjust. Then, when the accident
of his eldest son's extravagance had fallen upon him, he had endeavored to save his second
son, and had thought, without the slightest remorse, of the loss which was to fall on the creditors.
He had done all this in such a manner that, as far as Harry knew, the law could not touch him,
though all the world was aware of his iniquity. And now he lay boasting of what he had done.
It was necessary that Harry should say something as he rose from his seat, and he lamely expressed
a wish that Mr. Scarborough might quickly recover. "No, my dear fellow," said the squire; "men
do not recover when they are brought to such straits as I am in. Nor do I wish it. Were I to
live, Augustus would feel the second injustice to be quite intolerable. His mind is lost in
amazement at what I had contemplated. And he feels that the matter can only be set right between
him and fortune by my dying at once. If he were to understand that I were to live ten years
longer, I think that he would either commit a murder or lose his senses."

"But there is enough for both of you," said Harry.

"There is no such word in the language as enough. An estate can have but one owner, and Augustus
is anxious to be owner here. I do not blame him in the least. Why should he desire to spare
a father's rights when that father showed himself so willing to sacrifice his? Good-bye, Annesley;
I am sorry you are going, for I like to have some honest fellow to talk to. You are not to
suppose that because I have done this thing I am indifferent to what men shall say of me. I
wish them to think me good, though I have chosen to run counter to the prejudices of the world."

Then Harry escaped from the room, and spent the remaining evening with Augustus Scarborough
and Septimus Jones. The conversation was devoted chiefly to the partridges and horses; and
was carried on by Septimus with severity toward Harry, and by Scarborough with an extreme civility
which was the more galling of the two.

CHAPTER IX.

AUGUSTUS HAS HIS OWN DOUBTS.

"That's an impertinent young puppy," said Septimus Jones as soon as the fly which was to carry
Harry Annesley to the station had left the hall-door on the following morning. It may be presumed
that Mr. Jones would not thus have expressed himself unless his friend Augustus Scarborough
had dropped certain words in conversation in regard to Harry to the same effect. And it may
be presumed also that Augustus would not have dropped such words without a purpose of letting
his friend know that Harry was to be abused. Augustus Scarborough had made up his mind, looking
at the matter all round, that more was to be got by abusing Harry than by praising him.

"The young man has a good opinion of himself certainly."

"He thinks himself to be a deal better than anybody else," continued Jones, "whereas I for
one don't see it. And he has a way with him of pretending to be quite equal to his companions,
let them be who they may, which to me is odious. He was down upon you and down upon your father.
Of course your father has made a most fraudulent attempt; but what the devil is it to him?"
The other young man made no answer, but only smiled. The opinion expressed by Mr. Jones as
to Harry Annesley had only been a reflex of that felt by Augustus Scarborough. But the reflex,
as is always the case when the looking-glass is true, was correct.

Scarborough had known Harry Annesley for a long time, as time is counted in early youth, and
had by degrees learned to hate him thoroughly. He was a little the elder, and had at first
thought to domineer over his friend. But the friend had resisted, and had struggled manfully
to achieve what he considered an equality in friendship. "Now, Scarborough, you may as well
take it once for all that I am not going to be talked down. If you want to talk a fellow down
you can go to Walker, Brown, or Green. Then when you are tired of the occupation you can come
back to me." It was thus that Annesley had been wont to address his friend. But his friend
had been anxious to talk down this special young man for special purposes, and had been conscious
of some weakness in the other's character which he thought entitled him to do so. But the weakness
was not of that nature, and he had failed. Then had come the rivalry between Mountjoy and Harry,
which had seemed to Augustus to be the extreme of impudence. From of old he had been taught
to regard his brother Mountjoy as the first of young men--among commoners; the first in prospects
and the first in rank; and to him Florence Mountjoy had been allotted as a bride. How he had
himself learned first to envy and then to covet this allotted bride need not here be told.
But by degrees it had come to pass that Augustus had determined that his spendthrift brother
should fall under his own power, and that the bride should be the reward. How it was that two
brothers, so different in character, and yet so alike in their selfishness, should have come
to love the same girl with a true intensity of purpose, and that Harry Annesley, whose character
was essentially different, and who was in no degree selfish, should have loved her also, must
be left to explain itself as the girl's character shall be developed. But Florence Mountjoy
had now for many months been the cause of bitter dislike against poor Harry in the mind of
Augustus Scarborough. He understood much more clearly than his brother had done who it was
that the girl really preferred. He was ever conscious, too, of his own superiority,--falsely
conscious,--and did feel that if Harry's character were really known, no girl would in truth
prefer him. He could not quite see Harry with Florence's eyes nor could he see himself with
any other eyes but his own.

Then had come the meeting between Mountjoy and Harry Annesley in the street, of which he had
only such garbled account as Mountjoy himself had given him within half an hour afterward.
From that story, told in the words of a drunken man,--a man drunk, and bruised, and bloody,
who clearly did not understand in one minute the words spoken in the last,--Augustus did learn
that there had been some great row between his brother and Harry Annesley. Then Mountjoy had
disappeared,--had disappeared, as the reader will have understood, with his brother's co-operation,--and
Harry had not come forward, when inquiries were made, to declare what he knew of the occurrences
of that night. Augustus had narrowly watched his conduct, in order at first that he might learn
in what condition his brother had been left in the street, but afterward with the purpose of
ascertaining why it was that Harry had been so reticent. Then he had allured Harry on to a
direct lie, and soon perceived that he could afterward use the secret for his own purpose.

"I think we shall have to see what that young man's about, you know," he said afterward to
Septimus Jones.

"Yes, yes, certainly," said Septimus. But Septimus did not quite understand why it was that
they should have to see what the young man was about.

"Between you and me, I think he means to interfere with me, and I do not mean to stand his
interference."

"I should think not."

"He must go back to Buston, among the Bustonians, or he and I will have a stand-up fight of
it. I rather like a stand-up fight."

"Just so. When a fellow's so bumptious as that he ought to be licked."

"He has lied about Mountjoy," said Augustus. Then Jones waited to be told how it was that Harry
had lied. He was aware that there was some secret unknown to him, and was anxious to be informed.
Was Harry aware of Mountjoy's hiding-place, and if so, how had he learned it? Why was it that
Harry should be acquainted with that which was dark to all the world besides? Jones was of
opinion that the squire knew all about it, and thought it not improbable that the squire and
Augustus had the secret in their joint keeping. But if so, how should Harry Annesley know anything
about it? "He has lied like the very devil," continued Augustus, after a pause.

"Has he, now?"

"And I don't mean to spare him."

"I should think not." Then there was a pause, at the end of which Jones found himself driven
to ask a question: "How has he lied?" Augustus smiled and shook his head, from which the other
man gathered that he was not now to be told the nature of the lie in question. "A fellow that
lies like that," said Jones, "is not to be endured."

"I do not mean to endure him. You have heard of a young lady named Miss Mountjoy, a cousin
of ours?"

"Mountjoy's Miss Mountjoy?" suggested Jones.

"Yes, Mountjoy's Miss Mountjoy. That, of course, is over. Mountjoy has brought himself to such
a pass that he is not entitled to have a Miss Mountjoy any longer. It seems the proper thing
that she shall pass, with the rest of the family property, to the true heir."

"You marry her!"

"We need not talk about that just at present. I don't know that I've made up my mind. At any
rate, I do not intend that Harry Annesley shall have her."

"I should think not."

"He's a pestilential cur, that has got himself introduced into the family, and the sooner we
get quit of him the better. I should think the young lady would hardly fancy him when she knows
that he has lied like the very devil, with the object of getting her former lover out of the way."

"By Jove, no, I should think not!"

"And when the world comes to understand that Harry Annesley, in the midst of all these inquiries,
knows all about poor Mountjoy,--was the last to see him in London,--and has never come forward
to say a word about him, then I think the world will be a little hard upon the immaculate Harry
Annesley. His own uncle has quarrelled with him already."

"What uncle?"

"The gentleman down in Hertfordshire, on the strength of whose acres Master Harry is flaunting
it about in idleness. I have my eyes open and can see as well as another. When Harry lectures
me about my father and my father about me, one would suppose that there's not a hole in his
own coat. I think he'll find that the garment is not altogether water-tight." Then Augustus,
finding that he had told as much as was needful to Septimus Jones, left his friend and went
about his own family business.

On the next morning Septimus Jones took his departure, and on the day following Augustus followed
him. "So you're off?" his father said to him when he came to make his adieux.

"Well, yes; I suppose so. A man has got so many things to look after which he can't attend
to down here."

"I don't know what they are, but you understand it all. I'm not going to ask you to stay. Does
it ever occur to you that you may never see me again?"

"What a question!"

"It's one that requires an answer, at any rate."

"It does occur to me; but not at all as probable."

"Why not probable?"

"Because there's a telegraph wire from Tretton to London; and because the journey down here
is very short. It also occurs to me to think so from what has been said by Sir William Brodrick.
Of course any man may die suddenly."

"Especially when the surgeons have been at him."

"You have your sister with you, sir, and she will be of more comfort to you than I can be.
Your condition is in some respects an advantage to you. These creditors of Mountjoy can't force
their way in upon you."

"You are wrong there."

"They have not done so."

"Nor should they, though I were as strong as you. What are Mountjoy's creditors to me? They
have not a scrap of my handwriting in their possession. There is not one who can say that he
has even a verbal promise from me. They never came to me when they wanted to lend him money
at fifty per cent. Did they ever hear me say that he was my heir?"

"Perhaps not."

"Not one has ever heard it. It was not to them I lied, but to you and to Grey. D---- the creditors!
What do I care for them, though they be all ruined?"

"Not in the least."

"Why do you talk to me about the creditors? You, at any rate, know the truth." Then Augustus
quitted the room, leaving his father in a passion. But, as a fact, he was by no means assured
as to the truth. He supposed that he was the heir; but might it not be possible that his father
had contrived all this so as to save the property from Mountjoy and that greedy pack of money-lenders?
Grey must surely know the truth. But why should not Grey be deceived on the second event as
well as the first. There was no limit, Augustus sometimes thought, to his father's cleverness.
This idea had occurred to him within the last week, and his mind was tormented with reflecting
what might yet be his condition. But of one thing he was sure, that his father and Mountjoy
were not in league together. Mountjoy at any rate believed himself to have been disinherited.
Mountjoy conceived that his only chance of obtaining money arose from his brother. The circumstances
of Mountjoy's absence were, at any rate, unknown to his father.

CHAPTER X.

SIR MAGNUS MOUNTJOY.

It was the peculiarity of Florence Mountjoy that she did not expect other people to be as good
as herself. It was not that she erected for herself a high standard and had then told herself
that she had no right to demand from others one so exalted. She had erected nothing. Nor did
she know that she attempted to live by grand rules. She had no idea that she was better than
anybody else; but it came to her naturally as the result of what had gone before, to be unselfish,
generous, trusting, and pure. These may be regarded as feminine virtues, and may be said to
be sometimes tarnished, by faults which are equally feminine. Unselfishness may become want
of character; generosity essentially unjust; confidence may be weak, and purity insipid. Here
it was that the strength of Florence Mountjoy asserted itself. She knew well what was due to
herself, though she would not claim it. She could trust to another, but in silence be quite
sure of herself. Though pure herself, she was rarely shocked by the ways of others. And she
was as true as a man pretends to be.

In figure, form, and face she never demanded immediate homage by the sudden flash of her beauty.
But when her spell had once fallen on a man's spirit it was not often that he could escape
from it quickly. When she spoke a peculiar melody struck the hearer's ears. Her voice was soft
and low and sweet, and full at all times of harmonious words; but when she laughed it was like
soft winds playing among countless silver bells. There was something in her touch which to
men was almost divine. Of this she was all unconscious, but was as chary with her fingers as
though it seemed that she could ill spare her divinity.

In height she was a little above the common, but it was by the grace of her movements that
the world was compelled to observe her figure. There are women whose grace is so remarkable
as to demand the attention of all. But then it is known of them, and momentarily seen, that
their grace is peculiar. They have studied their graces, and the result is there only too evident.
But Florence seemed to have studied nothing. The beholder felt that she must have been as graceful
when playing with her doll in the nursery. And it was the same with her beauty. There was no
peculiarity of chiselled features. Had you taken her face and measured it by certain rules,
you would have found that her mouth was too large and her nose irregular. Of her teeth she
showed but little, and in her complexion there was none of that pellucid clearness in which
men ordinarily delight. But her eyes were more than ordinarily bright, and when she laughed
there seemed to stream from them some heavenly delight. When she did laugh it was as though
some spring had been opened from which ran for the time a stream of sweetest intimacy. For
the time you would then fancy that you had been let into the inner life of this girl, and would
be proud of yourself that so much should have been granted you. You would feel that there was
something also in yourself in that this should have been permitted. Her hair and eyebrows were
dark brown, of the hue most common to men and women, and had in them nothing that was peculiar;
but her hair was soft and smooth and ever well dressed, and never redolent of peculiar odors.
It was simply Florence Mountjoy's hair, and that made it perfect in the eyes of her male friends
generally.

"She's not such a wonderful beauty, after all," once said of her a gentleman to whom it may
be presumed that she had not taken the trouble to be peculiarly attractive. "No," said another,--"no.
But, by George! I shouldn't like to have the altering of her." It was thus that men generally
felt in regard to Florence Mountjoy. When they came to reckon her up they did not see how any
change was to be made for the better.

To Florence, as to most other girls, the question of her future life had been a great trouble.
Whom should she marry? and whom should she decline to marry? To a girl, when it is proposed
to her suddenly to change everything in life, to go altogether away and place herself under
the custody of a new master, to find for herself a new home, new pursuits, new aspirations,
and a strange companion, the change must be so complete as almost to frighten her by its awfulness.
And yet it has to be always thought of, and generally done.

But this change had been presented to Florence in a manner more than ordinarily burdensome.
Early in life, when naturally she would not have begun to think seriously of marriage, she
had been told rather than asked to give herself to her cousin Mountjoy. She was too firm of
character to accede at once--to deliver herself over body and soul to the tender mercies of
one, in truth, unknown. But she had been unable to interpose any reason that was valid, and
had contented herself by demanding time. Since that there had been moments in which she had
almost yielded. Mountjoy Scarborough had been so represented to her that she had considered
it to be almost a duty to yield. More than once the word had been all but spoken; but the word
had never been spoken. She had been subjected to what might be called cruel pressure. In season
and out of season her mother had represented as a duty this marriage with her cousin. Why should
she not marry her cousin? It must be understood that these questions had been asked before
any of the terrible facts of Captain Scarborough's life had been made known to her. Because,
it may be said, she did not love him. But in these days she had loved no man, and was inclined
to think so little of herself as to make her want of love no necessary bar to the accomplishment
of the wish of others. By degrees she was spoken of among their acquaintance as the promised
bride of Mountjoy Scarborough, and though she ever denied the imputation, there came over her
girl's heart a feeling,--very sad and very solemn, but still all but accepted,--that so it
must be. Then Harry Annesley had crossed her path, and the question had been at last nearly
answered, and the doubts nearly decided. She did not quite know at first that she loved Harry
Annesley, but was almost sure that it was impossible for her to become the wife of Mountjoy
Scarborough.

Then there came nearly twelve months of most painful uncertainty in her life. It is very hard
for a young girl to have to be firm with her mother in declining a proposed marriage, when
all circumstances of the connection are recommended to her as being peculiarly alluring. And
there was nothing in the personal manners of her cousin which seemed to justify her in declaring
her abhorrence. He was a dark, handsome, military-looking man, whose chief sin it was in the
eyes of his cousin that he seemed to demand from her affection, worship, and obedience. She
did not analyse his character, but she felt it. And when it came to pass that tidings of his
debts at last reached her, she felt that she was glad of an excuse, though she knew that the
excuse would not have prevailed with her had she liked him. Then came his debts, and with the
knowledge of them a keener perception of his imperiousness. She could consent to become the
wife of the man who had squandered his property and wasted his estate; but not of one who before
his marriage demanded of her that submission which, as she thought, should be given by her
freely after her marriage. Harry Annesley glided into her heart after a manner very different
from this. She knew that he adored her, but yet he did not hasten to tell her so. She knew
that she loved him, but she doubted whether a time would ever come in which she could confess
it. It was not till he had come to acknowledge the trouble to which Mountjoy had subjected
him that he had ever ventured to speak plainly of his own passion, and even then he had not
asked for a reply. She was still free, as she thought of all this, but she did at last tell
herself that, let her mother say what she would, she certainly never would stand at the altar
with her cousin Mountjoy.

Even now, when the captain had been declared not to be his father's heir, and when all the
world knew that he had disappeared from the face of the earth, Mrs. Mountjoy did not altogether
give him up. She partly disbelieved her brother, and partly thought that circumstances could
not be so bad as they were described.

To her feminine mind,--to her, living, not in the world of London, but in the very moderate
fashion of Cheltenham,--it seemed to be impossible that an entail should be thus blighted in
the bud. Why was an entail called an entail unless it were ineradicable,--a decision of fate
rather than of man and of law? And to her eyes Mountjoy Scarborough was so commanding that
all things must at last be compelled to go as he would have them. And, to tell the truth, there
had lately come to Mrs. Mountjoy a word of comfort, which might be necessary if the world should
be absolutely upset in accordance with the wicked skill of her brother, which even in that
case might make crooked things smooth. Augustus, whom she had regarded always as quite a Mountjoy,
because of his talent, and appearance, and habit of command, had whispered to her a word. Why
should not Florence be transferred with the remainder of the property? There was something
to Mrs. Mountjoy's feelings base in the idea at the first blush of it. She did not like to
be untrue to her gallant nephew. But as she came to turn it in her mind there were certain
circumstances which recommended the change to her--should the change be necessary. Florence
certainly had expressed an unintelligible objection to the elder brother. Why should the younger
not be more successful? Mrs. Mountjoy's heart had begun to droop within her as she had thought
that her girl would prove deaf to the voice of the charmer. Another charmer had come, most
objectionable in her sight, but to him no word of absolute encouragement had, as she thought,
been yet spoken. Augustus had already obtained for himself among his friends the character
of an eloquent young lawyer. Let him come and try his eloquence on his cousin,--only let it
first be ascertained, as an assured fact, and beyond the possibility of all retrogression,
that the squire's villainy was certain.

"I think, my love," she said to her daughter one day, "that, under the immediate circumstances
of the family, we should retire for a while into private life." This occurred on the very day
on which Septimus Jones had been vaguely informed of the iniquitous falsehood of Harry Annesley.

"Good gracious, mamma, is not our life always private?" She had understood it all,--that the
private life was intended altogether to exclude Harry, but was to be made open to the manoeuvres
of her cousin, such as they might be.

"Not in the sense in which I mean. Your poor uncle is dying."

"We hear that Sir William says he is better."

"I fear, nevertheless, that he is dying,--though it may, perhaps, take a long time. And then
poor Mountjoy has disappeared. I think that we should see no one till the mystery about Mountjoy
has been cleared up. And then the story is so very discreditable."

"I do not see that that is an affair of ours," said Florence, who had no desire to be shut
up just at the present moment.

"We cannot help ourselves. This making his eldest son out to be--oh, something so very different--is
too horrible to be thought of. I am told that nobody knows the truth."

"We at any rate are not implicated in that."

"But we are. He at any rate is my brother, and Mountjoy is my nephew,--or at any rate was.
Poor Augustus is thrown into terrible difficulties."

"I am told that he is greatly pleased at finding that Tretton is to belong to him."

"Who tells you that? You have no right to believe anything about such near relatives from any
one. Whoever told you so has been very wicked." Mrs. Mountjoy no doubt thought that this wicked
communication had been made by Harry Annesley. "Augustus has always proved himself to be affectionate
and respectful to his elder brother, that is, to his brother who is--is older than himself,"
added Mrs. Mountjoy, feeling that there was a difficulty in expressing herself as to the presumed
condition of the two Scarboroughs, "Of course he would rather be owner of Tretton than let
any one else have it, if you mean that. The honor of the family is very much to him."

"I do not know that the family can have any honor left," said Florence, severely.

"My dear, you have no right to say that. The Scarboroughs have always held their heads very
high in Staffordshire, and more so of late than ever. I don't mean quite of late, but since
Tretton became of so much importance. Now, I'll tell you what I think we had better do. We'll
go and spend six weeks with your uncle at Brussels. He has always been pressing us to come."

"Oh, mamma, he does not want us."

"How can you say that? How do you know?"

"I am sure Sir Magnus will not care for our coming now. Besides, how could that be retiring
into private life? Sir Magnus, as ambassador, has his house always full of company."

"My dear, he is not ambassador. He is minister plenipotentiary. It is not quite the same thing.
And then he is our nearest relative,--our nearest, at least, since my own brother has made
this great separation, of course. We cannot go to him to be out of the way of himself."

"Why do you want to go anywhere, mamma? Why not stay at home?" But Florence pleaded in vain
as her mother had already made up her mind. Before that day was over she succeeded in making
her daughter understand that she was to be taken to Brussels as soon as an answer could be
received from Sir Magnus and the necessary additions were made to their joint wardrobe.

Sir Magnus Mountjoy, the late general's elder brother, had been for the last four or five years
the English minister at Brussels. He had been minister somewhere for a very long time, so that
the memory of man hardly ran back beyond it, and was said to have gained for himself very extensive
popularity. It had always been a point with successive governments to see that poor Sir Magnus
got something, and Sir Magnus had never been left altogether in the cold. He was not a man
who would have been left out in the cold in silence, and perhaps the feeling that such was
the case had been as efficacious on his behalf as his well-attested popularity. At any rate,
poor Sir Magnus had always been well placed, and was now working out his last year or two before
the blessed achievement of his pursuit should have been reached. Sir Magnus had a wife of whom
it was said at home that she was almost as popular as her husband; but the opinion of the world
at Brussels on this subject was a good deal divided. There were those who declared that Lady
Mountjoy was of all women the most overbearing and impertinent. But they were generally English
residents at Brussels, who had come to live there as a place at which education for their children
would be cheaper than at home. Of these Lady Mountjoy had been heard to declare that she saw
no reason why, because she was the minister's wife, she should be expected to entertain all
the second-class world of London. This, of course, must be understood with a good deal of allowance,
as the English world at Brussels was much too large to expect to be so received; but there
were certain ladies living on the confines of high society who thought that they had a right
to be admitted, and who grievously resented their exclusion. It cannot, therefore, be said
that Lady Mountjoy was popular; but she was large in figure, and painted well, and wore her
diamonds with an air which her peculiar favorites declared to be majestic. You could not see
her going along the boulevards in her carriage without being aware that a special personage
was passing. Upon the whole, it may be said that she performed well her special role in life.
Of Sir Magnus it was hinted that he was afraid of his wife; but in truth he desired it to be
understood that all the disagreeable things done at the Embassy were done by Lady Mountjoy,
and not by him. He did not refuse leave to the ladies to drop their cards at his hall-door.
He could ask a few men to his table without referring the matter to his wife; but every one
would understand that the asking of ladies was based on a different footing.

He knew well that as a rule it was not fitting that he should ask a married man without his
wife; but there are occasions on which an excuse can be given, and upon the whole the men liked
it. He was a stout, tall, portly old gentleman, sixty years of age, but looking somewhat older,
whom it was a difficulty to place on horseback, but who, when there, looked remarkably well.
He rarely rose to a trot during his two hours of exercise, which to the two attaché's who were
told off for the duty of accompanying him was the hardest part of their allotted work. But
other gentlemen would lay themselves out to meet Sir Magnus and to ride with him, and in this
way he achieved that character for popularity which had been a better aid to him in life than
all the diplomatic skill which he possessed.

"What do you think?" said he, walking off with Mrs. Mountjoy's letter into his wife's room.

"I don't think anything, my dear."

"You never do." Lady Mountjoy, who had not yet undergone her painting, looked cross and ill-natured.
"At any rate, Sarah and her daughter are proposing to come here."

"Good gracious! At once?"

"Yes, at once. Of course, I've asked them over and over again, and something was said about
this autumn, when we had come back from Pimperingen."

"Why did you not tell me?"

"Bother! I did tell you. This kind of thing always turns up at last. She's a very good kind
of a woman, and the daughter is all that she ought to be."

"Of course she'll be flirting with Anderson." Anderson was one of the two mounted attachés.

"Anderson will know how to look after himself," said Sir Magnus. "At any rate they must come.
They have never troubled us before, and we ought to put up with them once."

"But, my dear, what is all this about her brother?"

"She won't bring her brother with her."

"How can you be sure of that?" said the anxious lady.

"He is dying, and can't be moved."

"But that son of his--Mountjoy. It's altogether a most distressing story. He turns out to be
nobody after all, and now he has disappeared, and the papers for an entire month were full
of him. What would you do if he were to turn up here? The girl was engaged to him, you know,
and has only thrown him off since his own father declared that he was not legitimate. There
never was such a mess about anything since London first began."

Then Sir Magnus declared that, let Mountjoy Scarborough and his father have misbehaved as they
might, Mr. Scarborough's sister must be received at Brussels. There was a little family difficulty.
Sir Magnus had borrowed three thousand pounds from the general which had been settled on the
general's widow, and the interest was not always paid with extreme punctuality. To give Mrs.
Mountjoy her due, it must be said that this had not entered into her consideration when she
had written to her brother-in-law; but it was a burden to Sir Magnus, and had always tended
to produce from him a reiteration of those invitations, which Mrs. Mountjoy had taken as an
expression of brotherly love. Her own income was always sufficient for her wants, and the hundred
and fifty pounds coming from Sir Magnus had not troubled her much. "Well, my dear, if it must
be it must;--only what I'm to do with her I do not know."

"Take her about in the carriage," said Sir Magnus, who was beginning to be a little angry with
this interference.

"And the daughter? Daughters are twice more troublesome than their mothers."

"Pass her over to Miss Abbott. And for goodness' sake don't make so much trouble about things
which need not be troublesome." Then Sir Magnus left his wife to ring for her chambermaid and
go on with her painting, while he himself undertook the unwonted task of writing an affectionate
letter to his sister-in-law. It should be here explained that Sir Magnus had no children of
his own, and that Miss Abbott was the lady who was bound to smile and say pretty things on
all occasions to Lady Mountjoy for the moderate remuneration of two hundred a year and her
maintenance.

The letter which Sir Magnus wrote was as follows:

  MY DEAR SARAH,--Lady Mountjoy bids me say that we shall
  be delighted to receive you and my niece at the British
  Ministry on the 1st of October, and hope that you will
  stay with us till the end of the month.--Believe me, most
  affectionately yours,                    MAGNUS MOUNTJOY.

"I have a most kind letter from Sir Magnus," said Mrs. Mountjoy to her daughter.

"What does he say?"

"That he will be delighted to receive us on the 1st of October. I did say that we should be
ready to start in about a week's time, because I know that he gets home from his autumn holiday
by the middle of September. But I have no doubt he has his house full till the time he has named."

"Do you know her, mamma?" asked Florence.

"I did see her once; but I cannot say that I know her. She used to be a very handsome woman,
and looks to be quite good-natured; but Sir Magnus has always lived abroad, and except when
he came home about your poor father's death I have seen very little of him."

"I never saw him but that once," said Florence.

And so it was settled that she and her mother were to spend a month at Brussels.

CHAPTER XI.

MONTE CARLO.

Toward the end of September, while the weather was so hot as to keep away from the south of
France all but very determined travellers, an English gentleman, not very beautiful in his
outward appearance, was sauntering about the great hall of the gambling-house at Monte Carlo,
in the kingdom or principality of Monaco, the only gambling-house now left in Europe in which
idle men of a speculative nature may yet solace their hours with some excitement. Nor is the
amusement denied to idle ladies, as might be seen by two or three highly-dressed habituées
who at this moment were depositing their shawls and parasols with the porters. The clock was
on the stroke of eleven, when the gambling-room would be open, and the amusement was too rich
in its nature to allow of the loss of even a few minutes. But this gentleman was not an habitué,
nor was he known even by name to any of the small crowd that was then assembled. But it was
known to many of them that he had had a great "turn of luck" on the preceding day, and had
walked off from the "rouge-et-noir" table with four or five hundred pounds.

The weather was still so hot that but few Englishmen were there, and the play had not as yet
begun to run high. There were only two or three,--men who cannot keep their hands from ruin
when ruin is open to them. To them heat and cold, the dog-star or twenty degrees below zero,
make no difference while the croupier is there, with his rouleaux before him, capable of turning
up the card. They know that the chance is against them,--one in twenty, let us say,--and that
in the long-run one in twenty is as good as two to one to effect their ruin. For a day they
may stand against one in twenty, as this man had done. For two or three days, for a week, they
may possibly do so; but they know that the doom must come at last,--as it does come invariably,--and
they go on. But our friend, the Englishman who had won the money, was not such a one as these,
at any rate in regard to Monaco. Yesterday had been his first appearance, and he had broken
ground there with great success. He was an ill-looking person, poorly clad,--what, in common
parlance, we should call seedy. He had not a scrap of beard on his face, and though swarthy
and dark as to his countenance, was light as to his hair, which hung in quantities down his
back. He was dressed from head to foot in a suit of cross-barred, light-colored tweed, of which
he wore the coat buttoned tight over his chest, as though to hide some deficiency of linen.

The gentleman was altogether a disreputable-looking personage, and they who had seen him win
his money,--Frenchmen and Italians for the most part,--had declared among themselves that his
luck had been most miraculous. It was observed that he had a companion with him, who stuck
close to his elbow, and it was asserted that this companion continually urged him to leave
the room. But as long as the croupier remained at the table he remained, and continued to play
through the day with almost invariable luck. It was surmised among the gamblers there that
he had not entered the room with above twenty or thirty pieces in his pocket, and that he had
taken away with him, when the place was closed, six hundred napoleons. "Look there; he has
come again to give it all back to Madame Blanc, with interest," said a Frenchman to an Italian.

"Yes; and he will end by blowing his brains out within a week. He is just the man to do it."

"These Englishmen always rush at their fate like mad bulls," said the Frenchman. "They get
less distraction for their money than any one."

"Che va piano va sano," said the Italian, jingling the four napoleons in his pocket, which
had been six on yesterday morning. Then they sauntered up to the Englishman, and both of them
touched their hats to him. The Englishman just acknowledged the compliment, and walked off
with his companion, who was still whispering something into his ear.

"It is a gendarme who is with him, I think," said the Frenchman, "only the man does not walk
erect."

Who does not know the outside hall of the magnificent gambling-house at Monte Carlo, with all
the golden splendor of its music-room within? Who does not know the lofty roof and lounging
seats, with its luxuries of liveried servants, its wealth of newspapers, and every appanage
of costly comfort which can be added to it? And its music within,--who does not know that there
are to be heard sounds in a greater perfection of orchestral melody than are to be procured
by money and trouble combined in the great capitals of Europe? Think of the trouble endured
by those unhappy fathers of families who indulge their wives and daughters at the Philharmonic
and St. James's Hall! Think of the horrors of our theatres, with their hot gas, and narrow
passages, and difficulties of entrance, and almost impossibility of escape! And for all this
money has to be paid,--high prices,--and the day has to be fixed long beforehand, so that the
tickets may be secured, and the daily feast,--papa's too often solitary enjoyment,--has to
be turned into a painful early fast. And when at last the thing has been done, and the torment
endured, the sounds heard have not always been good of their kind, for the money has not sufficed
to purchase the aid of a crowd of the best musicians. But at Monte Carlo you walk in with your
wife in her morning costume, and seating yourself luxuriously in one of those soft stalls which
are there prepared for you, you give yourself up with perfect ease to absolute enjoyment. For
two hours the concert lasts, and all around is perfection and gilding. There is nothing to
annoy the most fastidious taste. You have not heated yourself with fighting your way up crowded
stairs; no box-keeper has asked you for a shilling. No link-boy has dunned you because he stood
useless for a moment at the door of your carriage. No panic has seized you, and still oppresses
you, because of the narrow dimensions in which you have to seat yourself for the next three
hours. There are no twenty minutes during which you are doomed to sit in miserable expectation.
Exactly at the hour named the music begins, and for two hours it is your own fault if you be
not happy. A railway-carriage has brought you to steps leading up to the garden in which these
princely halls are built, and when the music is over will again take you home. Nothing can
be more perfect than the concert-room at Monte Carlo, and nothing more charming; and for all
this there is nothing whatever to pay.

But by whom;--out of whose pocket are all these good things provided? They tell you at Monte
Carlo that from time to time are to be seen men walking off in the dark of the night or the
gloom of the evening, or, for the matter of that, in the broad light of day, if the stern necessity
of the hour require it, with a burden among them, to be deposited where it may not be seen
or heard of any more. They are carrying away "all that mortal remains" of one of the gentlemen
who have paid for your musical entertainment. He has given his all for the purpose, and has
then--blown his brains out. It is one of the disagreeable incidents to which the otherwise
extremely pleasant money-making operations of the establishment are liable. Such accidents
will happen. A gambling-house, the keeper of which is able to maintain the royal expense of
the neighboring court out of his winnings and also to keep open for those who are not ashamed
to accept it,--gratis, all for love,--a concert-room brilliant with gold, filled with the best
performers whom the world can furnish, and comfortable beyond all opera-houses known to men
must be liable to a few such misfortunes. Who is not ashamed to accept, I have said, having
lately been there and thoroughly enjoyed myself? But I did not put myself in the way of having
to cut my throat, on which account I felt, as I came out, that I had been somewhat shabby.
I was ashamed in that I had not put a few napoleons down on the table. Conscience had prevented
me, and a wish to keep my money. But should not conscience have kept me away from all that
happiness for which I had not paid? I had not thought of it before I went to Monte Carlo, but
I am inclined now to advise others to stay away, or else to put down half a napoleon, at any
rate, as the price of a ticket. The place is not overcrowded, because the conscience of many
is keener than was mine.

We ought to be grateful to the august sovereign of Monaco in that he enabled an enterprising
individual to keep open for us in so brilliant a fashion the last public gambling-house in
Europe. The principality is but large enough to contain the court of the sovereign which is
held in the little town of Monaco, and the establishment of the last of legitimate gamblers
which is maintained at Monte Carlo. If the report of the world does not malign the prince,
he lives, as does the gambler, out of the spoil taken from the gamblers. He is to be seen in
his royal carriage going forth with his royal consort,--and very royal he looks! His little
teacup of a kingdom,--or rather a roll of French bread, for it is crusty and picturesque,--is
now surrounded by France. There is Nice away to the west, and Mentone to the east, and the
whole kingdom lies within the compass of a walk. Mentone, in France, at any rate, is within
five miles of the monarch's residence. How happy it is that there should be so blessed a spot
left in tranquillity on the earth's surface!

But on the present occasion Monte Carlo was not in all its grandeur, because of the heat of
the weather. Another month, and English lords, and English members of Parliament, and English
barristers would be there,--all men, for instance, who could afford to be indifferent as to
their character for a month,--and the place would be quite alive with music, cards, and dice.
At present men of business only flocked to its halls, eagerly intent on making money, though,
alas! almost all doomed to lose it. But our one friend with the long light locks was impatient
for the fray. The gambling-room had now been opened, and the servants of the table, less impatient
than he, were slowly arranging their money and their cards. Our friend had taken his seat,
and was already resolving, with his eyes fixed on the table, where he would make his first
plunge. In his right hand was a bag of gold, and under his left hand were hidden the twelve
napoleons with which he intended to commence. On yesterday he had gone through his day's work
by twelve, though on one or two occasions he had plunged deeply. It had seemed to this man
as though a new heaven had been opened to him, as of late he had seen little of luck in this
world. The surmises made as to the low state of his funds when he entered the room had been
partly true; but time had been when he was able to gamble in a more costly fashion even than
here, and to play among those who had taken his winnings and losings simply as a matter of course.

And now the game had begun, and the twelve napoleons were duly deposited. Again he won his
stake, an omen for the day, and was exultant. A second twelve and a third were put down, and
on each occasion he won. In the silly imagination of his heart he declared to himself that
the calculation of all chances was as nothing against his run of luck. Here was the spot on
which it was destined that he should redeem all the injury which fortune had done him. And
in truth this man had been misused by fortune. His companion whispered in his ear, but he heard
not a word of it. He increased the twelve to fifteen, and again won. As he looked round there
was a halo of triumph which seemed to illuminate his face. He had chained Chance to his chariot-wheel
and would persevere now that the good time had come. What did he care for the creature at his
elbow? He thought of all the good things which money could again purchase for him as he carefully
fingered the gold for the next stake. He had been rich, though he was now poor; though how
could a man be accounted poor who had an endless sum of six hundred napoleons in his pocket,
a sum which was, in truth, endless, while it could be so rapidly recruited in this fashion?
The next stake he also won, but as he raked all the pieces which the croupier pushed toward
him his mind had become intent on another sphere and on other persons. Let him win what he
might, his old haunts were now closed against him. What good would money do him, living such
a life as he must now be compelled to pass? As he thought of this the five-and-twenty napoleons
on the table were taken away from him almost without consciousness on his part.

At that moment there came a voice in his ear,--not the voice of his attending friend, but one
of which he accurately knew the lisping, fiendish sound: "Ah, Captain Scarborough, I thought
it vas posshible you might be here. Dis ish a very nice place." Our friend looked round and
glared at the man, and felt that it was impossible that this occupation should be continued
under his eyes. "Yesh; it was likely. How do you like Monte Carlo? You have plenty of money--plenty!"
The man was small, and oily, and black-haired, and beaky-nosed, with a perpetual smile on his
face, unless when on special occasions he would be moved to the expression of deep anger. Of
the modern Hebrews a most complete Hebrew; but a man of purpose, who never did things by halves,
who could count upon good courage within, and who never allowed himself to be foiled by misadventure.
He was one who, beginning with nothing, was determined to die a rich man, and was likely to
achieve his purpose. Now there was no gleam of anger on his face, but a look of invincible
good-humor, which was not, however, quite good-humor, when you came to examine it closely.

"Oh, that is you, is it, Mr. Hart?"

"Yesh; it is me. I have followed you. Oh, I have had quite a pleasant tour following you. But
ven I got my noshe once on to the schent then I was sure it was Monte Carlo. And it ish Monte
Carlo; eh, Captain Scarborough?"

"Yes; of course it is Monte Carlo. That is to say, Monte Carlo is the place where we are now.
I don't know what you mean by running on in that way." Then he drew back from the table, Mr.
Hart following close behind him, and his attendant at a farther distance behind him. As he
went he remembered that he had slightly increased the six hundred napoleons of yesterday, and
that the money was still in his own possession. Not all the Jews in London could touch the
money while he kept it in his pocket.

"Who ish dat man there?" asked Mr. Hart.

"What can that be to you?"

"He seems to follow you pretty close."

"Not so close as you do, by George; and perhaps he has something to get by it, which you haven't."

"Come, come, come! If he have more to get than I he mush be pretty deep. There is Mishter Tyrrwhit.
No one have more to get than I, only Mishter Tyrrwhit. Vy, Captain Scarborough, the little
game you wash playing there, which wash a very pretty little game, is as nothing to my game
wish you. When you see the money down, on the table there, it seems to be mush because the
gold glitters, but it is as noting to my little game, where the gold does not glitter, because
it is pen and ink. A pen and ink soon writes ten thousand pounds. But you think mush of it
when you win two hundred pounds at roulette."

"I think nothing of it," said our friend Captain Scarborough.

"And it goes into your pocket to give champagne to the ladies, instead of paying your debts
to the poor fellows who have supplied you for so long with all de money."

All this occurred in the gambling-house at a distance from the table, but within hearing of
that attendant who still followed the player. These moments were moments of misery to the captain
in spite of the bank-notes for six hundred napoleons which were still in his breast coat-pocket.
And they were not made lighter by the fact that all the words spoken by the Jew were overheard
by the man who was supposed to be there in the capacity of his servant. But the man, as it
seemed, had a mission to fulfil, and was the captain's master as well as servant. "Mr. Hart,"
said Captain Scarborough, repressing the loudness of his words as far as his rage would admit
him, but still speaking so as to attract the attention of some of those round him, "I do not
know what good you propose to yourself by following me in this manner. You have my bonds, which
are not even payable till my father's death."

"Ah, there you are very much mistaken."

"And are then only payable out of the property to which I believed myself to be heir when the
money was borrowed."

"You are still de heir--de heir to Tretton. There is not a shadow of a doubt as to that."

"I hope when the time comes," said the captain, "you'll be able to prove your words."

"Of course we shall prove dem. Why not? Your father and your brother are very clever shentlemen,
I think, but they will not be more clever than Mishter Samuel Hart. Mr. Tyrrwhit also is a
clever man. Perhaps he understands your father's way of doing business. Perhaps it is all right
with Mr. Tyrrwhit. It shall be all right with me too;--I swear it. When will you come back
to London, Captain Scarborough?"

Then there came an angry dispute in the gambling-room, during which Mr. Hart by no means strove
to repress his voice. Captain Scarborough asserted his rights as a free agent, declaring himself
capable, as far as the law was concerned, of going wherever he pleased without reference to
Mr. Hart; and told that gentleman that any interference on his part would be regarded as an
impertinence. "But my money--my money, which you must pay this minute, if I please to demand it."

"You did not lend me five-and-twenty thousand pounds without security."

"It is forty-five--now, at this moment."

"Take it, get it; go and put it in your pocket. You have a lot of writings; turn then into
cash at once. Take them to any other Jew in London and sell them. See if you can get your five-and-twenty
thousand pounds for them,--or twenty-five thousand shillings. You certainly cannot get five-and-twenty
pence for them here, though you had all the police of this royal kingdom to support you. My
father says that the bonds I gave you are not worth the paper on which they were written. If
you are cheated, so have I been. If he has robbed you, so has he me. But I have not robbed
you, and you can do nothing to me."

"I vill stick to you like beesvax," said Mr. Hart, while the look of good-humor left his countenance
for a moment. "Like beesvax! You shall not escape me again."

"You will have to follow me to Constantinople, then."

"I vill follow you to the devil."

"You are likely to go before me there. But for the present I am off to Constantinople, from
whence I intend to make an extended tour to Mount Caucasus, and then into Thibet. I shall be
very glad of your company, but cannot offer to pay the bill. When you and your companions have
settled yourselves comfortably at Tretton, I shall be happy to come and see you there. You
will have to settle the matter first with my younger brother, if I may make bold to call that
well-born gentleman my brother at all. I wish you a good-morning, Mr. Hart." Upon that he walked
out into the hall, and thence down the steps into the garden in front of the establishment,
his own attendant following him.

Mr. Hart also followed him, but did not immediately seek to renew the conversation. If he meant
to show any sign of keeping his threat and of sticking to the captain like beeswax, he must
show his purpose at once. The captain for a time walked round the little enclosure in earnest
conversation with the attendant, and Mr. Hart stood on the steps watching them. Play was over,
at any rate for that day, as far as the captain was concerned.

"Now, Captain Scarborough, don't you think you've been very rash?" said the attendant.

"I think I've got six hundred and fifty napoleons in my pocket, instead of waiting to get them
in driblets from my brother."

"But if he knew that you had come here he would withdraw them altogether. Of course, he will
know now. That man will be sure to tell him. He will let all London know. Of course, it would
be so when you came to a place of such common resort as Monte Carlo."

"Common resort! Do you believe he came here as to a place of common resort? Do you think that
he had not tracked me out, and would not have done so, whether I had gone to Melbourne, or
New York, or St. Petersburg? But the wonder is that he should spend his money in such a vain
pursuit."

"Ah, captain, you do not know what is vain and what is not. It is your brother's pleasure that
you should be kept in the dark for a time."

"Hang my brother's pleasure! Why am I to follow my brother's pleasure?"

"Because he will allow you an income. He will keep a coat on your back and a hat on your head,
and supply meat and wine for your needs." Here Captain Scarborough jingled the loose napoleons
in his trousers pocket. "Oh, yes, that is all very well but it will not last forever. Indeed,
it will not last for a week unless you leave Monte Carlo."

"I shall leave it this afternoon by the train for Genoa."

"And where shall you go then?"

"You heard me suggest to Mr. Hart to the devil,--or else Constantinople, and after that to
Thibet. I suppose I shall still enjoy the pleasure of your company?"

"Mr. Augustus wishes that I should remain with you, and, as you yourself say, perhaps it will
be best."

CHAPTER XII.

HARRY ANNESLEY'S SUCCESS.

Harry Annesley, a day or two after he had left Tretton, went down to Cheltenham; for he had
received an invitation to a dance there, and with the invitation an intimation that Florence
Mountjoy was to be at the dance. If I were to declare that the dance had been given and Florence
asked to it merely as an act of friendship to Harry, it would perhaps be thought that modern
friendship is seldom carried to so great a length. But it was undoubtedly the fact that Mrs.
Armitage, who gave the dance, was a great friend and admirer of Harry's, and that Mr. Armitage
was an especial chum. Let not, however, any reader suppose that Florence was in the secret.
Mrs. Armitage had thought it best to keep her in the dark as to the person asked to meet her.
"As to my going to Montpelier Place," Harry had once said to Mrs. Armitage, "I might as well
knock at a prison-door." Mrs. Mountjoy lived in Montpelier Place.

"I think we could perhaps manage that for you," Mrs. Armitage had replied, and she had managed it.

"Is she coming?" Harry said to Mrs. Armitage, in an anxious whisper, as he entered the room.

"She has been here this half-hour,--if you had taken the trouble to leave your cigars and come
and meet her."

"She has not gone?" said Harry, almost awe-struck at the idea.

"No; she is sitting like Patience on a monument, smiling at grief, in the room inside. She
has got horrible news to tell you."

"Oh, heavens! What news?"

"I suppose she will tell you, though she has not been communicative to me in regard to your
royal highness. The news is simply that her mother is going to take her to Brussels, and that
she is to live for a while amid the ambassadorial splendors with Sir Magnus and his wife."

By retiring from the world Mrs. Mountjoy had not intended to include such slight social relaxations
as Mrs. Armitage's party, for Harry on turning round encountered her talking to another Cheltenham
lady. He greeted her with his pleasantest smile, to which Mrs. Mountjoy did not respond quite
so sweetly. She had ever greatly feared Harry Annesley, and had to-day heard a story very much,
as she thought, to his discredit. "Is your daughter here?" asked Harry, with well-trained hypocrisy.
Mrs. Mountjoy could not but acknowledge that Florence was in the room, and then Harry passed
on in pursuit of his quarry.

"Oh, Mr. Annesley, when did you come to Cheltenham?"

"As soon as I heard that Mrs. Armitage was going to have a party I began to think of coming
immediately." Then an idea for the first time shot through Florence's mind--that her friend
Mrs. Armitage was a woman devoted to intrigue. "What dance have you disengaged? The richest became
libertines; those of moderate fortune followed some profession and resigned themselves to
the sword or to the church. The poorest gave themselves up with cold enthusiasm to great thoughts,
plunged into the frightful sea of aimless effort.

As human weakness seeks association and as men are gregarious by
nature, politics became mingled with it.

There were struggles with the'garde du corps'on the steps of the legislative
assembly; at the theatre Talma wore a wig which made him resemble Caesar;
every one flocked to the burial of a Liberal deputy.

But of the members of the two parties there was not one who, upon returning home, did not bitterly
realize the emptiness of his life and the feebleness of his hands.

While life outside was so colorless and so mean, the inner life of society assumed a sombre aspect
of silence; hypocrisy ruled in all departments of conduct; English
ideas, combining gayety with devotion, had disappeared.

Perhaps Providence was already preparing new ways, perhaps the herald
angel of future society was already sowing in the hearts of women
the seeds of human independence.

But it is certain that a strange thing suddenly happened: in all the salons of Paris the men
passed on one side and the women on the other; and thus, the one clad in white like brides,
and the other in black like orphans, began to take measure of one
another with the eye.

Let us not be deceived: that vestment of black which the men of our time wear is a terrible symbol;
before coming to this, the armor must have fallen piece by piece and the embroidery flower by flower.
Human reason has overthrown all illusions; but it bears in itself sorrow, in order that it may
be consoled.

The customs of students and artists, those customs so free, so beautiful,
so full of youth, began to experience the universal change.

Men in taking leave of women whispered the word which wounds to the death: contempt. They plunged
into the dissipation of wine and courtesans. Students and artists did the same; love was treated
as were glory and religion: it was an old illusion. The grisette, that woman so dreamy, so romantic,
so tender, and so sweet in love, abandoned herself to the counting-house
and to the shop.

She was poor and no one loved her; she needed gowns and hats and she sold herself. Oh! misery!
the young man who ought to love her, whom she loved, who used to take her to the woods of Verrieres
and Romainville, to the dances on the lawn, to the suppers under the trees; he who used to
talk with her as she sat near the lamp in the rear of the shop on the long winter evenings; he
who shared her crust of bread moistened with the sweat of her brow, and her love at once sublime
and poor; he, that same man, after abandoning her, finds her after a night of orgy, pale and
leaden, forever lost, with hunger on her lips and prostitution in
her heart.

About this time two poets, whose genius was second only to that of
Napoleon, consecrated their lives to the work of collecting the elements
of anguish and of grief scattered over the universe.

Goethe, the patriarch of a new literature, after painting in his
Weyther the passion which leads to suicide, traced in his Faust the
most sombre human character which has ever represented evil and unhappiness.

His writings began to pass from Germany into France. From his studio, surrounded by pictures
and statues, rich, happy, and at ease, he watched with a paternal
smile his gloomy creations marching in dismal procession across the
frontiers of France.

"You asked me no question," said Florence, who remembered to the last syllable every word that
had been said to her on that occasion.

"Did I not? I am sure you knew what it was that I intended to ask." Florence could not but
think that this was quite another thing. "Oh, Florence, can you love me?" Had she given her
ears for it she could not have told him the truth then, on the spur of the moment. Her mother's
eye was, she knew, watching her through the door-way all the way across from the other room.
And yet, had her mother asked her, she would have answered boldly that she did love Harry Annesley,
and intended to love him for ever and ever with all her heart. And she would have gone farther
if cross-questioned, and have declared that she regarded him already as her lord and master.
But now she had not a word to say to him. All she knew was that he had now pledged himself
to her, and that she intended to keep him to his pledge. "May I not have one word," he said,--"one
word?"

What could he want with a word more? thought Florence. Her silence now was as good as any speech.
But as he did want more she would, after her own way, reply to him. So there came upon his
arm the slightest possible sense of pressure from those sweet fingers, and Harry Annesley was
on a sudden carried up among azure-tinted clouds into the farthest heaven of happiness. After
a moment he stood still, and passed his fingers through his hair and waved his head as a god
might do it. She had now made to him a solemn promise than which no words could be more binding.
"Oh, Florence," he exclaimed, "I must have you alone with me for one moment." For what could
he want her alone for any moment? thought Florence. There was her mother still looking at them;
but for her Harry did not now care one straw. Nor did he hate those bright Italian lakes with
nearly so strong a feeling of abhorrence. "Florence, you are now all my own." There came another
slightest pressure, slight, but so eloquent from those fingers.

"I hate dancing. How is a fellow to dance now? I shall run against everybody. I can see no
one. I should be sure to make a fool of myself. No, I don't want to dance even with you. No,
certainly not!--let you dance with somebody else, and you engaged to me! Well, if I must, of
course I must. I declare, Florence, you have not spoken a single word to me, though there is
so much that you must have to say. What have you got to say? What a question to ask! You must
tell me. Oh, you know what you have got to tell me! The sound of it will be the sweetest music
that a man can possibly hear."

"You knew it all, Harry," she whispered.

"But I want to hear it. Oh, Florence, Florence, I do not think you can understand how completely
I am beyond myself with joy. I cannot dance again, and will not. Oh, my wife, my wife!"

"Hush!" said Florence, afraid that the very walls might hear the sound of Harry's words.

"What does it signify though all the world knew it?"

"Oh yes."

"That I should have been so fortunate! That is what I cannot understand. Poor Mountjoy! I do
feel for him. That he should have had the start of me so long, and have done nothing!"

"Nothing," whispered Florence.

"And I have done everything. I am so proud of myself that I think I must look almost like a hero."

They had now got to the extremity of the room near an open window, and Florence found that
she was able to say one word. "You are my hero." The sound of this nearly drove him mad with
joy. He forgot all his troubles. Prodgers, the policeman, Augustus Scarborough, and that fellow
whom he hated so much, Septimus Jones;--what were they all to him now? He had set his mind
upon one thing of value, and he had got it. Florence had promised to be his, and he was sure
that she would never break her word to him. But he felt that for the full enjoyment of his
triumph he must be alone somewhere with Florence for five minutes. He had not actually explained
to himself why, but he knew that he wished to be alone with her. At present there was no prospect
of any such five minutes, but he must say something in preparation for some future five minutes
at a time to come. Perhaps it might be to-morrow, though he did not at present see how that
might be possible, for Mrs. Mountjoy, he knew, would shut her door against him. And Mrs. Mountjoy
was already prowling round the room after her daughter. Harry saw her as he got Florence to
an opposite door, and there for the moment escaped with her. "And now," he said, "how am I
to manage to see you before you go to Brussels?"

"I do not know that you can see me."

"Do you mean that you are to be shut up, and that I am not to be allowed to approach you?"

"I do mean it. Mamma is, of course, attached to her nephew."

"What, after all that has passed?"

"Why not? Is he to blame for what his father has done?" Harry felt that he could not press
the case against Captain Scarborough without some want of generosity. And though he had told
Florence once about that dreadful midnight meeting, he could say nothing farther on that subject.
"Of course mamma thinks that I am foolish."

"But why?" he asked.

"Because she doesn't see with my eyes, Harry. We need not say anything more about it at present.
It is so; and therefore I am to go to Brussels. You have made this opportunity for yourself
before I start. Perhaps I have been foolish to be taken off my guard."

"Don't say that, Florence."

"I shall think so, unless you can be discreet. Harry, you will have to wait. You will remember
that we must wait; but I shall not change."

"Nor I,--nor I."

"I think not, because I trust you. Here is mamma, and now I must leave you. But I shall tell
mamma everything before I go to bed." Then Mrs. Mountjoy came up and took Florence away, with
a few words of most disdainful greeting to Harry Annesley.

When Florence was gone Harry felt that as the sun and the moon and the stars had all set, and
as absolute darkness reigned through the rooms, he might as well escape into the street, where
there was no one but the police to watch him, as he threw his hat up into the air in his exultation.
But before he did so he had to pass by Mrs. Armitage and thank her for all her kindness; for
he was aware how much she had done for him in his present circumstances. "Oh, Mrs. Armitage,
I am so obliged to you! no fellow was ever so obliged to a friend before."

"How has it gone off? For Mrs. Mountjoy has taken Florence home."

"Oh yes, she has taken her away. But she hasn't shut the stable-door till the steed has been
stolen."

"Oh, the steed has been stolen?"

"Yes, I think so; I do think so."

"And that poor man who has disappeared is nowhere."

"Men who disappear never are anywhere. But I do flatter myself that if he had held his ground
and kept his property the result would have been the same."

"I dare say."

"Don't suppose, Mrs. Armitage, that I am taking any pride to myself. Why on earth Florence
should have taken a fancy to such a fellow as I am I cannot imagine."

"Oh no; not in the least."

"It's all very well for you to laugh, Mrs. Armitage, but as I have thought of it all I have
sometimes been in despair."

"But now you are not in despair."

"No, indeed; just now I am triumphant. I have thought so often that I was a fool to love her,
because everything was so much against me."

"I have wondered that you continued. It always seemed to me that there wasn't a ghost of a
chance for you. Mr. Armitage bade me give it all up, because he was sure you would never do
any good."

"I don't care how much you laugh at me, Mrs. Armitage."

"Let those laugh who win." Then he rushed out into the Paragon, and absolutely did throw his
hat up in the air in his triumph.

CHAPTER XIII.

MRS. MOUNTJOY'S ANGER.

Florence, as she went home in the fly with her mother after the party at which Harry had spoken
to her so openly, did not find the little journey very happy. Mrs. Mountjoy was a woman endowed
with a strong power of wishing rather than of willing, of desiring rather than of contriving;
but she was one who could make herself very unpleasant when she was thwarted. Her daughter
was now at last fully determined that if she ever married anybody, that person should be Harry
Annesley. Having once pressed his arm in token of assent, she had as it were given herself
away to him, so that no reasoning, no expostulations could, she thought, change her purpose;
and she had much more power of bringing about her purposed design than had her mother. But
her mother could be obstinate and self-willed, and would for the time make herself disagreeable.
Florence had assured her lover that everything should be told her mother that night before
she went to bed. But Mrs. Mountjoy did not wait to be simply told. No sooner were they seated
in the fly together than she began to make her inquiries. "What has that man been saying to
you?" she demanded.

Florence was at once offended by hearing her lover so spoken of, and could not simply tell
the story of Harry's successful courtship, as she had intended. "Mamma," she said "why do you
speak of him like that?"

"Because he is a scamp."

"No, he is no scamp. It is very unkind of you to speak in such terms of one whom you know is
very dear to me."

"I do not know it. He ought not to be dear to you at all. You have been for years intended
for another purpose." This was intolerable to Florence,--this idea that she should have been
considered as capable of being intended for the purposes of other people! And a resolution
at once was formed in her mind that she would let her mother know that such intentions were
futile. But for the moment she sat silent. A journey home at twelve o'clock at night in a fly
was not the time for the expression of her resolution. "I say he is a scamp," said Mrs. Mountjoy.
"During all these inquiries that have been made after your cousin he has known all about it."

"He has not known all about it," said Florence.

"You contradict me in a very impertinent manner, and cannot be acquainted with the circumstances.
The last person who saw your cousin in London was Mr. Henry Annesley, and yet he has not said
a word about it, while search was being made on all sides. And he saw him under circumstances
most suspicious in their nature; so suspicious as to have made the police arrest him if they
were aware of them. He had at that moment grossly insulted Captain Scarborough."

"No, mamma; no, it was not so."

"How do you know? how can you tell?"

"I do know; and I can tell. The ill-usage had come from the other side."

"Then you, too, have known the secret, and have said nothing about it? You, too, have been
aware of the violence which took place at that midnight meeting? You have been aware of what
befell your cousin, the man to whom you were all but engaged. And you have held your tongue
at the instigation, no doubt, of Mr. Henry Annesley. Oh, Florence, you also will find yourself
in the hands of the policeman!" At this moment the fly drew up at the door of the house in
Montpelier Place, and the two ladies had to get out and walk up the steps into the hall, where
they were congratulated on their early return from the party by the lady's-maid.

"Mamma, I will go to bed," said Florence, as soon as she reached her mother's room.

"I think you had better, my dear, though Heaven knows what disturbances there may be during
the night." By this Mrs. Mountjoy had intended to imply that Prodgers, the policeman, might
probably lose not a moment more before he would at once proceed to arrest Miss Mountjoy for
the steps she had taken in regard to the disappearance of Captain Scarborough.

She had heard from Harry Annesley the fact that he had been brutally attacked by the captain
in the middle of the night in the streets of London; and for this, in accordance with her mother's
theory, she was to be dragged out of bed by a constable, and that, probably, before the next
morning should have come. There was something in this so ludicrous as regarded the truth of
the story, and yet so cruel as coming from her mother, that Florence hardly knew whether to
cry or laugh as she laid her head upon the pillow.

But in the morning, as she was thinking that the facts of her own position had still to be
explained to her mother,--that it would be necessary that she should declare her purpose and
the impossibility of change, now that she had once pledged herself to her lover,--Mrs. Mountjoy
came into the room, and stood at her bedside, with that appearance of ghostly displeasure which
always belongs to an angry old lady in a night-cap.

"Well, mamma?"

"Florence, there must be an understanding between us."

"I hope so. I thought there always had been. I am sure, mamma, you have known that I have never
liked Captain Scarborough so as to become his wife, and I think you have known that I have
liked Harry Annesley."

"Likings are all fiddlesticks!"

"No, mamma; or, if you object to the word, I will say love. You have known that I have not
loved my cousin, and that I have loved this other man. That is not nonsense; that at any rate
is a stern reality, if there be anything real in the world."

"Stern! you may well call it stern."

"I mean unbending, strong, not to be overcome by outside circumstances. If Mr. Annesley had
not spoken to me as he did last night,--could never have so spoken to me,--I should have been
a miserable girl, but my love for him would have been just as stern. I should have remained
and thought of it, and have been unhappy through my whole life. But he has spoken, and I am
exultant. That is what I mean by stern. All that is most important, at any rate to me."

"I am here now to tell you that it is impossible."

"Very well, mamma. Then things must go on, and we must bide our time."

"It is proper that I should tell you that he has disgraced himself."

"Never! I will not admit it. You do not know the circumstances," exclaimed Florence.

"It is most impertinent in you to pretend that you know them better than I do," said her mother,
indignantly.

"The story was told to me by himself."

"Yes; and therefore told untruly."

"I grieve that you should think so of him, mamma; but I cannot help it. Where you have got
your information I cannot tell. But that mine has been accurately told to me I feel certain."

"At any rate, my duty is to look after you and to keep you from harm. I can only do my duty
to the best of my ability. Mr. Annesley is, to my thinking, a most objectionable young man,
and he will, I believe, be in the hands of the police before long. Evidence will have to be
given, in which your name will, unfortunately, be mentioned."

"Why my name?"

"It is not probable that he will keep it a secret, when cross-questioned, as to his having
divulged the story to some one. He will declare that he has told it to you. When that time
shall come it will be well that we should be out of the country. I propose to start from here
on this day week."

"Uncle Magnus will not be able to have us then."

"We must loiter away our time on the road. I look upon it as quite imperative that we shall
both be out of England within eight days' time of this."

"But where will you go?"

"Never mind. I do not know that I have as yet quite made up my mind. But you may understand
that we shall start from Cheltenham this day week. Baker will go with us, and I shall leave
the other two servants in charge of the house. I cannot tell you anything farther as yet,--except
that I will never consent to your marriage with Mr. Henry Annesley. You had better know that
for certain, and then there will be less cause for unhappiness between us." So saying, the
angry ghost with the night-cap on stalked out of the room.

It need hardly be explained that Mrs. Mountjoy's information respecting the scene in London
had come to her from Augustus Scarborough. When he told her that Annesley had been the last
in London to see his brother Mountjoy, and had described the nature of the scene that had occurred
between them, he had no doubt forgotten that he himself had subsequently seen his brother.
In the story, as he had told it, there was no need to mention himself,--no necessity for such
a character in making up the tragedy of that night. No doubt, according to his idea, the two
had been alone together. Harry had struck the blow by which his brother had been injured, and
had then left him in the street. Mountjoy had subsequently disappeared, and Harry had told
to no one that such an encounter had taken place. This had been the meaning of Augustus Scarborough
when he informed his aunt that Harry had been the last who had seen Mountjoy before his disappearance.
To Mrs. Mountjoy the fact had been most injurious to Harry's character. Harry had wilfully
kept the secret while all the world was at work looking for Mountjoy Scarborough; and, as far
as Mrs. Mountjoy could understand, it might well be that Harry had struck the fatal blow that
had sent her nephew to his long account. All the impossibilities in the case had not dawned
upon her. It had not occurred to her that Mountjoy could not have been killed and his body
made away with without some great effort, in the performance of which the "scamp" would hardly
have risked his life or his character. But the scamp was certainly a scamp, even though he
might not be a murderer, or he would have revealed the secret. In fact, Mrs. Mountjoy believed
in the matter exactly what Augustus had intended, and, so believing, had resolved that her
daughter should suffer any purgatory rather than become Harry's wife.

But her daughter made her resolutions exactly in the contrary direction. She in truth did know
what had been done on that night, while her mother was in ignorance. The extent of her mother's
ignorance she understood, but she did not at all know where her mother had got her information.
She felt that Harry's secret was in hands other than he had intended, and that some one must
have spoken of the scene. It occurred to Florence at the moment that this must have come from
Mountjoy himself, whom she believed,--and rightly believed,--to have been the only second person
present on the occasion. And if he had told it to any one, then must that "any one" know where
and how he had disappeared. And the information must have been given to her mother solely with
the view of damaging Harry's character, and of preventing Harry's marriage.

Thinking of all this, Florence felt that a premeditated and foul attempt,--for, as she turned
it in her mind, the attempt seemed to be very foul,--was being made to injure Harry. A false
accusation was brought against him, and was grounded on a misrepresentation of the truth in
such a manner as to subvert it altogether to Harry's injury. It should have no effect upon
her. To this determination she came at once, and declared to herself solemnly that she would
be true to it. An attempt was made to undermine him in her estimation; but they who made it
had not known her character. She was sure of herself now, within her own bosom, that she was
bound in a peculiar way to be more than ordinarily true to Harry Annesley. In such an emergency
she ought to do for Harry Annesley more than a girl in common circumstances would be justified
in doing for her lover. Harry was maligned, ill-used, and slandered. Her mother had been induced
to call him a scamp, and to give as her reason for doing so an account of a transaction which
was altogether false, though she no doubt had believed it to be true.

As she thought of all this she resolved that it was her duty to write to her lover, and tell
him the story as she had heard it. It might be most necessary that he should know the truth.
She would write her letter and post it,--so that it should be altogether beyond her mother's
control,--and then would tell her mother that she had written it. She at first thought that
she would keep a copy of the letter and show it to her mother. But when it was written,--those
first words intended for a lover's eyes which had ever been produced by her pen,--she found
that she could not subject those very words to her mother's hard judgment.

Her letter was as follows:

"DEAR HARRY,--You will be much surprised at receiving a letter from me so soon after our meeting
last night. But I warn you that you must not take it amiss. I should not write now were it
not that I think it may be for your interest that I should do so. I do not write to say a word
about my love, of which I think you may be assured without any letter. I told mamma last night
what had occurred between us, and she of course was very angry. You will understand that, knowing
how anxious she has been on behalf of my cousin Mountjoy. She has always taken his part, and
I think it does mamma great honor not to throw him over now that he is in trouble. I should
never have thrown him over in his trouble, had I ever cared for him in that way. I tell you
that fairly, Master Harry.

"But mamma, in speaking against you, which she was bound to do in supporting poor Mountjoy,
declared that you were the last person who had seen my cousin before his disappearance, and
she knew that there had been some violent struggle between you. Indeed, she knew all the truth
as to that night, except that the attack had been made by Mountjoy on you. She turned the story
all round, declaring that you had attacked him,--which, as you perceive, gives a totally different
appearance to the whole matter. Somebody has told her,--though who it may have been I cannot
guess,--but somebody has been endeavoring to do you all the mischief he can in the matter,
and has made mamma think evil of you. She says that after attacking him, and brutally ill-using
him, you had left him in the street, and had subsequently denied all knowledge of having seen
him. You will perceive that somebody has been at work inventing a story to do you a mischief,
and I think it right that I should tell you.

"But you must never believe that I shall believe anything to your discredit. It would be to
my discredit now. I know that you are good, and true, and noble, and that you would not do
anything so foul as this. It is because I know this that I have loved you, and shall always
love you. Let mamma and others say what they will, you are now to me all the world. Oh, Harry,
Harry, when I think of it, how serious it seems to me, and yet how joyful! I exult in you,
and will do so, let them say what they may against you. You will be sure of that always. Will
you not be sure of it?

"But you must not write a line in answer, not even to give me your assurance. That must come
when we shall meet at length,--say after a dozen years or so. I shall tell mamma of this letter,
which circumstances seem to demand, and shall assure her that you will write no answer to it.

"Oh, Harry, you will understand all that I might say of my feelings in regard to you.

"Your own, FLORENCE."

This letter, when she had written it and copied it fair and posted the copy in the pillar-box
close by, she found that she could not in any way show absolutely to her mother. In spite of
all her efforts it had become a love-letter. And what genuine love-letter can a girl show even
to her mother? But she at once told her of what she had done. "Mamma, I have written a letter
to Harry Annesley."

"You have?"

"Yes, mamma; I have thought it right to tell him what you had heard about that night."

"And you have done this without my permission,--without even telling me what you were going to do?"

"If I had asked you, you would have told me not."

"Of course I should have told you not. Good gracious! has it come to this, that you correspond
with a young gentleman without my leave, and when you know that I would not have given it?"

"Mamma, in this instance it was necessary."

"Who was to judge of that?"

"If he is to be my husband--"

"But he is not to be your husband. You are never to speak to him again. You shall never be
allowed to meet him; you shall be taken abroad, and there you shall remain, and he shall hear
nothing about you. If he attempts to correspond with you--"

"He will not."

"How do you know?"

"I have told him not to write."

"Told him, indeed! Much he will mind such telling! I shall give your Uncle Magnus a full account
of it all and ask for his advice. He is a man in a high position, and perhaps you may think
fit to obey him, although you utterly refuse to be guided in any way by your mother." Then
the conversation for the moment came to an end. But Florence, as she left her mother, assured
herself that she could not promise any close obedience in any such matters to Sir Magnus.

CHAPTER XIV.

THEY ARRIVE IN BRUSSELS.

For some weeks after the party at Mrs. Armitage's house, and the subsequent explanations with
her mother, Florence was made to suffer many things. First came the one week before they started,
which was perhaps the worst of all. This was specially embittered by the fact that Mrs. Mountjoy
absolutely refused to divulge her plans as they were made. There was still a fortnight before
she could be received at Brussels, and as to that fortnight she would tell nothing.

Her knowledge of human nature probably went so far as to teach her that she could thus most
torment her daughter. It was not that she wished to torment her in a revengeful spirit. She
was quite sure within her own bosom that she did all in love. She was devoted to her daughter.
But she was thwarted; and therefore told herself that she could best farther the girl's interests
by tormenting her. It was not meditated revenge, but that revenge which springs up without
any meditation, and is often therefore the most bitter. "I must bring her nose to the grindstone,"
was the manner in which she would have probably expressed her thoughts to herself. Consequently
Florence's nose was brought to the grindstone, and the operation made her miserable. She would
not, however, complain when she had discovered what her mother was doing. She asked such questions
as appeared to be natural, and put up with replies which purposely withheld all information.
"Mamma, have you not settled on what day we shall start?" "No, my dear." "Mamma, where are
we going?" "I cannot tell you as yet; I am by no means sure myself." "I shall be glad to know,
mamma, what I am to pack up for use on the journey." "Just the same as you would do on any
journey." Then Florence held her tongue, and consoled herself with thinking of Harry Annesley.

At last the day came, and she knew that she was to be taken to Boulogne. Before this time she
had received one letter from Harry, full of love, full of thanks,--just what a lover's letter
ought to have been;--but yet she was disturbed by it. It had been delivered to herself in the
usual way, and she might have concealed the receipt of it from her mother, because the servants
in the house were all on her side. But this would not be in accordance with the conduct which
she had arranged for herself, and she told her mother. "It is just an acknowledgment of mine
to him. It was to have been expected, but I regret it."

"I do not ask to see it," said Mrs. Mountjoy, angrily.

"I could not show it you, mamma, though I think it right to tell you of it."

"I do not ask to see it, I tell you. I never wish to hear his name again from your tongue.
But I knew how it would be;--of course. I cannot allow this kind of thing to go on. It must
be prevented."

"It will not go on, mamma."

"But it has gone on. You tell me that he has already written. Do you think it proper that you
should correspond with a young man of whom I do not approve?" Florence endeavored to reflect
whether she did think it proper or not. She thought it quite proper that she should love Harry
Annesley with all her heart, but was not quite sure as to the correspondence. "At any rate,
you must understand," continued Mrs. Mountjoy, "that I will not permit it. All letters, while
we are abroad, must be brought to me; and if any come from him they shall be sent back to him.
I do not wish to open his letters, but you cannot be allowed to receive them. When we are at
Brussels I shall consult your uncle upon the subject. I am very sorry, Florence, that there
should be this cause of quarrel between us; but it is your doing."

"Oh, mamma, why should you be so hard?"

"I am hard, because I will not allow you to accept a young man who has, I believe, behaved
very badly, and who has got nothing of his own." 

Like the Asiatic plague exhaled from the vapors of the Ganges, frightful
despair stalked over the earth.

Already Chateaubriand, prince of poesy, wrapping the horrible idol in his pilgrim's mantle, had
placed it on a marble altar in the midst of perfumes and holy incense. Already the children
were clenching idle hands and drinking in a bitter cup the poisoned brewage of doubt. Already
things were drifting toward the abyss, when the jackals suddenly emerged from the earth. A
deathly and infected literature, which had no form but that of ugliness, began to sprinkle with
fetid blood all the monsters of nature.

Who will dare to recount what was passing in the colleges?

Men doubted everything: the young men denied everything.

The poets sang of despair; the youth came from the schools with serene brow, their faces glowing
with health, and blasphemy in their mouths.

Moreover, the French character, being by nature gay and open, readily assimilated English and German
ideas; but hearts too light to struggle and to suffer withered like crushed flowers. Thus the
seed of death descended slowly and without shock from the head to the bowels. Instead of having
the enthusiasm of evil we had only the negation of the good; instead of despair, insensibility.
Children of fifteen, seated listlessly under flowering shrubs, conversed for pastime on subjects
which would have made shudder with terror the still thickets of Versailles. The Communion of Christ,
the Host, those wafers that stand as the eternal symbol of divine love, were used to seal letters;
the children spit upon the Bread of God.

Happy they who escaped those times! Happy they who passed over the abyss while looking up to Heaven.
There are such, doubtless, and they will pity us.

It is unfortunately true that there is in blasphemy a certain outlet which solaces the burdened
heart. When an atheist, drawing his watch, gave God a quarter of
an hour in which to strike him dead, it is certain that it was a quarter
of an hour of wrath and of atrocious joy. You always used to believe me."

"That was before you knew Mr. Harry Annesley."

There was something in this very aggravating,--something specially intended to excite angry
feelings. But Florence determined to forbear. "I think you may believe me, mamma. I am your
own daughter, and I shall not deceive you. I do consider myself engaged to Mr. Annesley."

"You need not tell me that."

"But while I am living with you I will promise not to receive letters from him without your
leave. If one should come I will bring it to you, unopened, so that you may deal with it as
though it had been delivered to yourself. I care nothing about my uncle as to this affair.
What he may say cannot affect me, but what you say does affect me very much. I will promise
neither to write nor to hear from Mr. Annesley for three months. Will not that satisfy you?"
Mrs. Mountjoy would not say that it did satisfy her; but she somewhat mitigated her treatment
of her daughter till they arrived together at Sir Magnus's mansion.

They were shown through the great hall by three lackeys into an inner vestibule, where they
encountered the great man himself. He was just then preparing to be put on to his horse, and
Lady Mountjoy had already gone forth in her carriage for her daily airing, with the object,
in truth, of avoiding the new-comers. "My dear Sarah," said Sir Magnus, "I hope I have the
pleasure of seeing you and my niece very well. Let me see, your name is--"

"My name is Florence," said the young lady so interrogated.

"Ah yes; to be sure. I shall forget my own name soon. If any one was to call me Magnus without
the 'Sir,' I shouldn't know whom they meant." Then he looked his niece in the face, and it
occurred to him that Anderson might not improbably desire to flirt with her. Anderson was the
riding attaché, who always accompanied him on horseback, and of whom Lady Mountjoy had predicted
that he would be sure to flirt with the minister's niece. At that moment Anderson himself came
in, and some ceremony of introduction took place. Anderson was a fair-haired, good-looking
young man, with that thorough look of self-satisfaction and conceit which attachés are much
more wont to exhibit than to deserve. For the work of an attaché at Brussels is not of a nature
to bring forth the highest order of intellect; but the occupations are of a nature to make
a young man feel that he is not like other young men.

"I am so sorry that Lady Mountjoy has just gone out. She did not expect you till the later
train. You have been staying at Boulogne. What on earth made you stay at Boulogne?"

"Bathing," said Mrs. Mountjoy, in a low voice.

"Ah, yes; I suppose so. Why did you not come to Ostend? There is better bathing there, and
I could have done something for you. What! The horses ready, are they? I must go out and show
myself, or otherwise they'll all think that I am dead. If I were absent from the boulevard
at this time of day I should be put into the newspapers. Where is Mrs. Richards?" Then the
two guests, with their own special Baker, were made over to the ministerial house-keeper, and
Sir Magnus went forth upon his ride.

"She's a pretty girl, that niece of mine," said Sir Magnus.

"Uncommonly pretty," said the attaché.

"But I believe she is engaged to some one. I quite forget who; but I know there is some aspirant.
Therefore you had better keep your toe in your pump, young man."

"I don't know that I shall keep my toe in my pump because there is another aspirant," said
Anderson. "You rather whet my ardor, sir, to new exploits. In such circumstances one is inclined
to think that the aspirant must look after himself. Not that I conceive for a moment that Miss
Mountjoy should ever look after me."

When Mrs. Mountjoy came down to the drawing-room there seemed to be quite "a party" collected
to enjoy the hospitality of Sir Magnus, but there were not, in truth, many more than the usual
number at the board. There were Lady Mountjoy, and Miss Abbot, and Mr. Anderson, with Mr. Montgomery
Arbuthnot, the two attachés. Mr. Montgomery Arbuthnot was especially proud of his name, but
was otherwise rather a humble young man as an attaché, having as yet been only three months
with Sir Magnus, and desirous of perfecting himself in Foreign Office manners under the tuition
of Mr. Anderson. Mr. Blow, Secretary of Legation, was not there. He was a married man of austere
manners, who, to tell the truth, looked down from a considerable height, as regarded Foreign
Office knowledge, upon his chief.

It was Mr. Blow who did the "grinding" on behalf of the Belgian Legation, and who sometimes
did not hesitate to let it be known that such was the fact. Neither he nor Mrs. Blow was popular
at the Embassy; or it may, perhaps, be said with more truth that the Embassy was not popular
with Mr. and Mrs. Blow. It may be stated, also, that there was a clerk attached to the establishment,
Mr. Bunderdown, who had been there for some years, and who was good-naturedly regarded by the
English inhabitants as a third attaché. Mr. Montgomery Arbuthnot did his best to let it be
understood that this was a mistake. In the small affairs of the legation, which no doubt did
not go beyond the legation, Mr. Bunderdown generally sided with Mr. Blow. Mr. Montgomery Arbuthnot
was recognized as a second mounted attaché, though his attendance on the boulevard was not
as constant as that of Mr. Anderson, in consequence, probably, of the fact that he had not
a horse of his own. But there were others also present. There were Sir Thomas Tresham, with
his wife, who had been sent over to inquire into the iron trade of Belgium. He was a learned
free-trader who could not be got to agree with the old familiar views of Sir Magnus,--who thought
that the more iron that was produced in Belgium the less would be forthcoming from England.
But Sir Thomas knew better, and as Sir Magnus was quite unable to hold his own with the political
economist, he gave him many dinners and was civil to his wife. Sir Thomas, no doubt, felt that
in doing so Sir Magnus did all that could be expected from him. Lady Tresham was a quiet little
woman, who could endure to be patronized by Lady Mountjoy without annoyance. And there was
M. Grascour, from the Belgian Foreign Office, who spoke English so much better than the other
gentlemen present that a stranger might have supposed him to be a school-master whose mission
it was to instruct the English Embassy in their own language.

"Oh, Mrs Mountjoy, I am so ashamed of myself!" said Lady Mountjoy, as she waddled into the
room two minutes after the guests had been assembled. She had a way of waddling that was quite
her own, and which they who knew her best declared that she had adopted in lieu of other graces
of manner. She puffed a little also, and did contrive to attract peculiar attention. "But I
have to be in my carriage every day at the same hour. I don't know what would be thought of
us if we were absent." Then she turned, with a puff and a waddle, to Miss Abbot. "Dear Lady
Tresham was with us." Mrs. Mountjoy murmured something as to her satisfaction at not having
delayed the carriage-party, and bethought herself how exactly similar had been the excuse made
by Sir Magnus himself. Then Lady Mountjoy gave another little puff, and assured Florence that
she hoped she would find Brussels sufficiently gay,--"not that we pretend at all to equal Paris."

"We live at Cheltenham," said Florence, "and that is not at all like Paris. Indeed, I never
slept but two nights at Paris in my life."

"Then we shall do very well at Brussels." After this she waddled off again, and was stopped
in her waddling by Sir Magnus, who sternly desired her to prepare for the august ceremony of
going in to dinner. The one period of real importance at the English Embassy was, no doubt,
the daily dinner-hour.

Florence found herself seated between Mr. Anderson, who had taken her in, and M. Grascour,
who had performed the same ceremony for her ladyship. "I am sure you will like this little
capital very much," said M. Grascour. "It is as much nicer than Paris as it is smaller and
less pretentious." Florence could only assent. "You will soon be able to learn something of
us; but in Paris you must be to the manner born, or half a lifetime will not suffice."

"We'll put you up to the time of day," said Mr. Anderson, who did not choose, as he said afterward,
that this tidbit should be taken out of his mouth.

"I dare say that all that I shall want will come naturally without any putting up."

"You won't find it amiss to know a little of what's what. You have not got a riding-horse here?"

"Oh no," said Florence.

"I was going on to say that I can manage to secure one for you. Billibong has got an excellent
horse that carried the Princess of Styria last year." Mr. Anderson was supposed to be peculiarly
up to everything concerning horses.

"But I have not got a habit. That is a much more serious affair."

"Well, yes. Billibong does not keep habits: I wish he did. But we can manage that too. There
does live a habit-maker in Brussels."

"Ladies' habits certainly are made in Brussels," said M. Grascour. "But if Miss Mountjoy does
not choose to trust a Belgian tailor there is the railway open to her. An English habit can
be sent."

"Dear Lady Centaur had one sent to her only last year, when she was staying here," said Lady
Mountjoy across her neighbor, with two little puffs.

"I shall not at all want the habit," said Florence, "not having the horse, and indeed, never
being accustomed to ride at all."

"Do tell me what it is that you do do," said Mr. Anderson, with a convenient whisper, when
he found that M. Grascour had fallen into conversation with her ladyship. "Lawn-tennis?"

"I do play at lawn-tennis, though I am not wedded to it."

"Billiards? I know you play billiards."

"I never struck a ball in my life."

"Goodness gracious, how odd! Don't you ever amuse yourself at all? Are they so very devotional
down at Cheltenham?"

"I suppose we are stupid. I don't know that I ever do especially amuse myself."

"We must teach you;--we really must teach you. I think I may boast of myself that I am a good
instructor in that line. Will you promise to put yourself into my hands?"

"You will find me a most unpromising pupil."

"Not in the least. I will undertake that when you leave this you shall be au fait at everything.
Leap frog is not too heavy for me and spillikins not too light. I am up to them all, from backgammon
to a cotillon,--not but what I prefer the cotillon for my own taste."

"Or leap-frog, perhaps," suggested Florence.

"Well, yes; leap-frog used to be a good game at Gother School, and I don't see why we shouldn't
have it back again. Ladies, of course, must have a costume on purpose. But I am fond of anything
that requires a costume. Don't you like everything out of the common way? I do." Florence assured
him that their tastes were wholly dissimilar, as she liked everything in the common way. "That's
what I call an uncommonly pretty girl," he said afterward to M. Grascour, while Sir Magnus
was talking to Sir Thomas. "What an eye!"

"Yes, indeed; she is very lovely."

"My word, you may say that! And such a turn of the shoulders! I don't say which are the best-looking,
as a rule, English or Belgians, but there are very few of either to come up to her."

"Anderson, can you tell us how many tons of steel rails they turn out at Liege every week?
Sir Thomas asks me, just as though it were the simplest question in the world."

"Forty million," said Anderson,--"more or less."

"Twenty thousand would, perhaps, be nearer the mark," said M. Grascour; "but I will send him
the exact amount to-morrow."

CHAPTER XV.

MR. ANDERSON'S LOVE.

Lady Mountjoy had certainly prophesied the truth when she said that Mr. Anderson would devote
himself to Florence. The first week in Brussels passed by quietly enough. A young man can hardly
declare his passion within a week, and Mr. Anderson's ways in that particular were well known.
A certain amount of license was usually given to him, both by Sir Magnus and Lady Mountjoy,
and when he would become remarkable by the rapidity of his changes the only adverse criticism
would come generally from Mr. Blow. "Another peerless Bird of Paradise," Mr. Blow would say.
"If the birds were less numerous, Anderson might, perhaps, do something." But at the end of
the week, on this occasion, even Sir Magnus perceived that Anderson was about to make himself
peculiar.

"By George!" he said one morning, when Sir Magnus had just left the outer office, which he
had entered with the object of giving some instruction as to the day's ride, "take her altogether,
I never saw a girl so fit as Miss Mountjoy." There was something very remarkable in this speech,
as, according to his usual habit of life, Anderson would certainly have called her Florence,
whereas his present appellation showed an unwonted respect.

"What do you mean when you say that a young lady is fit?" said Mr. Blow.

"I mean that she is right all round, which is a great deal more than can be said of most of them."

"The divine Florence--" began Mr. Montgomery Arbuthnot, struggling to say something funny.

"Young man, you had better hold your tongue, and not talk of young ladies in that language."

"I do believe that he is going to fall in love," said Mr. Blow.

"I say that Miss Mountjoy is the fittest girl I have seen for many a day; and when a young
puppy calls her the divine Florence, he does not know what he is about."

"Why didn't you blow Mr. Blow up when he called her a Bird of Paradise?" said Montgomery Arbuthnot.
"Divine Florence is not half so disrespectful of a young lady as Bird of Paradise. Divine Florence
means divine Florence, but Bird of Paradise is chaff."

"Mr. Blow, as a married man," said Anderson, "has a certain freedom allowed him. If he uses
it in bad taste, the evil falls back upon his own head. Now, if you please, we'll change the
conversation." From this it will be seen that Mr. Anderson had really fallen in love with Miss
Mountjoy.

But though the week had passed in a harmless way to Sir Magnus and Lady Mountjoy,--in a harmless
way to them as regarded their niece and their attaché,--a certain amount of annoyance had,
no doubt, been felt by Florence herself. Though Mr. Anderson's expressions of admiration had
been more subdued than usual, though he had endeavored to whisper his love rather than to talk
it out loud, still the admiration had been both visible and audible, and especially so to Florence
herself. It was nothing to Sir Magnus with whom his attaché flirted. Anderson was the younger
son of a baronet who had a sickly elder brother, and some fortune of his own. My father, who was
a great Motive-Monger, and consequently a very dangerous person for a man to sit by, either laughing
or crying,-- for he generally knew your motive for doing both, much better than you knew it yourself-- would
always console my uncle Toby upon these occasions, in a way, which shewed plainly, he imagined
my uncle Toby grieved for nothing in the whole affair, so much as the loss of his hobby-horse.-- Never
mind, brother Toby, he would say,-- by God's blessing we shall have another war break out again
some of these days; and when it does,-- the belligerent powers, if
they would hang themselves, cannot keep us out of play.-- I defy'em,
my dear Toby, he would add, to take countries without taking towns,-- or
towns without sieges. Indeed, Florence would
not have found her sojourn at Brussels to be unpleasant were it not for Mr. Anderson's unpalatable
little whispers. She had taken them as jokes as long as she had been able to do so, but was
now at last driven to perceive that other people would not do so. "Mamma," she said, "don't
you think that that Mr. Anderson is an odious young man?"

"No, my dear, by no means. What is there odious about him? He is very lively; he is the second
son of Sir Gregory Anderson, and has very comfortable means of his own."

"Oh, mamma, what does that signify?"

"Well, my dear, it does signify. In the first place, he is a gentleman, and in the next, has
a right to make himself attentive to any young lady in your position. I don't say anything
more. I am not particularly wedded to Mr. Anderson. If he were to come to me and ask for my
permission to address you, I should simply refer him to yourself, by which I should mean to
imply that if he could contrive to recommend himself to you I should not refuse my sanction."

Then the subject for that moment dropped, but Florence was astonished to find that her mother
could talk about it, not only without reference to Harry Annesley, but also without an apparent
thought of Mountjoy Scarborough; and it was distressing to her to think that her mother should
pretend to feel that she, her own daughter, should be free to receive the advances of another
suitor. As she reflected it came across her mind that Harry was so odious that her mother would
have been willing to accept on her behalf any suitor who presented himself, even though her
daughter, in accepting him, should have proved herself to be heartless. Any alternative would
have been better to her mother than that choice to which Florence had determined to devote
her whole life.

"Mamma," she said, going back to the subject on the next day, "if I am to stay here for three
weeks longer--"

"Yes, my dear, you are to stay here for three weeks longer."

"Then somebody must say something to Mr. Anderson."

"I do not see who can say it but you yourself. As far as I can see, he has not misbehaved."

"I wish you would speak to my uncle."

"What am I to tell him?"

"That I am engaged."

"He would ask me to whom, and I cannot tell him. I should then be driven to put the whole case
in his hands, and to ask his advice. You do not suppose that I am going to say that you are
engaged to marry that odious young man? All the world knows how atrociously badly he has behaved
to your own cousin. He left him lying for dead in the street by a blow from his own hand; and
though from that day to this nothing has been heard of Mountjoy, nothing is known to the police
of what may have been his fate;--even stranger, he may have perished under the usage which
he received, yet Mr. Annesley has not thought it right to say a word of what had occurred.
He has not dared even to tell an inspector of police the events of that night. And the young
man was your own cousin, to whom you were known to have been promised for the last two years."

"No, no!" said Florence.

"I say that it was so. You were promised to your cousin, Mountjoy Scarborough."

"Not with my own consent."

"All your friends,--your natural friends,--knew that it was to be so. And now you expect me
to take by the hand this young man who has almost been his murderer!"

"No, mamma, it is not true. You do not know the circumstances, and you assert things which
are directly at variance with the truth."

"From whom do you get your information? From the young man himself. Is that likely to be true?
What would Sir Magnus say as to that were I to tell him?"

"I do not know what he would say, but I do know what is the truth. And can you think it possible
that I should now be willing to accept this foolish young man in order thus to put an end to
my embarrassments?"

Then she left her mother's room, and, retreating to her own, sat for a couple of hours thinking,
partly in anger and partly in grief, of the troubles of her situation. Her mother had now,
in truth, frightened her as to Harry's position. "I have stopped my ears and am looking at it."

In
the midst of this Bacchanalian orgy the beautiful Marco remained mute, drinking nothing and
leaning quietly on her bare arm. She seemed neither astonished nor
affected by it.

"Do you not wish to do as they?" She
was beginning to understand in what way the outside world might talk of Harry Annesley, of
the man to whom she had given herself and her whole heart. Then her mother was right. And as
she thought of it she began to justify her mother. It was natural that her mother should believe
the story which had been told to her, let it have come from where it might. There was in her
mind some suspicion of the truth. She acknowledged a great animosity to her cousin Augustus,
and regarded him as one of the causes of her unhappiness. But she knew nothing of the real
facts; she did not even suspect that Augustus had seen his brother after Harry had dealt with
him, or that he was responsible for his brother's absence. But she knew that she disliked him,
and in some way she connected his name with Harry's misfortune.

Of one thing she was certain: let them,--the Mountjoys, and Prospers, and the rest of the world,--think
and say what they would of Harry, she would be true to him. She could understand that his character
might be made to suffer, but it should not suffer in her estimation. Or rather, let it suffer
ever so, that should not affect her love and her truth. She did not say this to herself. By
saying it even to herself she would have committed some default of truth. She did not whisper
it even to her own heart. But within her heart there was a feeling that, let Harry be right
or wrong in what he had done, even let it be proved, to the satisfaction of all the world,
that he had sinned grievously when he had left the man stunned and bleeding on the pavement,--for
to such details her mother's story had gone,--still, to her he should be braver, more noble,
more manly, more worthy of being loved, than was any other man. She, perceiving the difficulties
that were in store for her, and looking forward to the misfortune under which Harry might be
placed, declared to herself that he should at least have one friend who would be true to him.

"Miss Mountjoy, I have come to you with a message from your aunt." This was said, three or
four days after the conversation between Florence and her mother, by Mr. Anderson, who had
contrived to follow the young lady into a small drawing-room after luncheon. What was the nature
of the message it is not necessary for us to know. We may be sure that it had been manufactured
by Mr. Anderson for the occasion. He had looked about and spied, and had discovered that Miss
Mountjoy was alone in the little room. And in thus spying we consider him to have been perfectly
justified. His business at the moment was that of making love, a business which is allowed
to override all other considerations. Even the making an office copy of a report made by Mr.
Blow for the signature of Sir Magnus might, according to our view of life, have been properly
laid aside for such a purpose. I asked in spite of myself. Then I returned to the city, I saw
a little girl take her mother's arm, and I became like a child.

Although I had followed my friends into all manner of dissipation,
I had no desire to resume my place in the world of society. The business of love-making warrants
any concoction to which the lover may resort. "But oh, Miss Mountjoy, I am so glad to have
a moment in which I can find you alone!" It must be understood that the amorous young gentleman
had not yet been acquainted with the young lady for quite a fortnight.

"I was just about to go up-stairs to my mother," said Florence, rising to leave the room.

"Oh, bother your mother! I beg her pardon and yours;--I really didn't mean it. There is such
a lot of chaff going on in that outer room, that a fellow falls into the way of it whether
he likes it or no."

"My mother won't mind it at all; but I really must go."

