Once during the night I thought I heard Old Lobo, but was not sure of it. Next day I rode around,
but darkness came on before I completed the circuit of the north cañon, and I had nothing to
report. At supper one of the cowboys said, "There was a great row among the cattle in the north
cañon this morning, maybe there is something in the traps there." It was afternoon of the next
day before I got to the place referred to, and as I drew near a great grizzly form arose from
the ground, vainly endeavoring to escape, and there revealed before me stood Lobo, King of
the Currumpaw, firmly held in the traps. Poor old hero, he had never ceased to search for his
darling, and when he found the trail her body had made he followed it recklessly, and so fell
into the snare prepared for him. There he lay in the iron grasp of all four traps, perfectly
helpless, and all around him were numerous tracks showing how the cattle had gathered about
him to insult the fallen despot, without daring to approach within his reach. For two days
and two nights he had lain there, and now was worn out with struggling. Yet, when I went near
him, he rose up with bristling mane and raised his voice, and for the last time made the cañon
reverberate with his deep bass roar, a call for help, the muster call of his band. But there
was none to answer him, and, left alone in his extremity, he whirled about with all his strength
and made a desperate effort to get at me. All in vain, each trap was a dead drag of over three
hundred pounds, and in their relentless fourfold grasp, with great steel jaws on every foot,
and the heavy logs and chains all entangled together, he was absolutely powerless. How his
huge ivory tusks did grind on those cruel chains, and when I ventured to touch him with my
rifle-barrel he left grooves on it which are there to this day. His eyes glared green with
hate and fury, and his jaws snapped with a hollow 'chop,' as he vainly endeavored to reach
me and my trembling horse. But he was worn out with hunger and struggling and loss of blood,
and he soon sank exhausted to the ground.

Something like compunction came over me, as I prepared to deal out to him that which so many
had suffered at his hands.

"Grand old outlaw, hero of a thousand lawless raids, in a few minutes you will be but a great
load of carrion. It cannot be otherwise." Then I swung my lasso and sent it whistling over
his head. But not so fast; he was yet far from being subdued, and, before the supple coils
had fallen on his neck he seized the noose and, with one fierce chop, cut through its hard
thick strands, and dropped it in two pieces at his feet.

Of course I had my rifle as a last resource, but I did not wish to spoil his royal hide, so
I galloped back to the camp and returned with a cowboy and a fresh lasso. We threw to our victim
a stick of wood which he seized in his teeth, and before he could relinquish it our lassoes
whistled through the air and tightened on his neck.

Yet before the light had died from his fierce eyes, I cried, "Stay, we will not kill him; let
us take him alive to the camp." He was so completely powerless now that it was easy to put
a stout stick through his mouth, behind his tusks, and then lash his jaws with a heavy cord
which was also fastened to the stick. The stick kept the cord in, and the cord kept the stick
in, so he was harmless. As soon as he felt his jaws were tied he made no further resistance,
and uttered no sound, but looked calmly at us and seemed to say, "Well, you have got me at
last, do as you please with me." And from that time he took no more notice of us.

We tied his feet securely, but he never groaned, nor growled, nor turned his head. Then with
our united strength we were just able to put him on my horse. His breath came evenly as though
sleeping, and his eyes were bright and clear again, but did not rest on us. Afar on the great
rolling mesas they were fixed, his passing kingdom, where his famous band was now scattered.
And he gazed till the pony descended the pathway into the cañon, and the rocks cut off the view.

By travelling slowly we reached the ranch in safety, and after securing him with a collar and
a strong chain, we staked him out in the pasture and removed the cords. Then for the first
time I could examine him closely, and proved how unreliable is vulgar report where a living
hero or tyrant is concerned. He had not a collar of gold about his neck, nor was there on his
shoulders an inverted cross to denote that he had leagued himself with Satan. But I did find
on one haunch a great broad scar, that tradition says was the fang-mark of Juno, the leader
of Tannerey's wolf-hounds--a mark which she gave him the moment before he stretched her lifeless
on the sand of the cañon.

       *       *       *       *       *

I set meat and water beside him, but he paid no heed. He lay calmly on his breast, and gazed
with those steadfast yellow eyes away past me down through the gateway of the cañon, over the
open plains--his plains--nor moved a muscle when I touched him. When the sun went down he was
still gazing fixedly across the prairie. I expected he would call up his band when night came,
and prepared for them, but he had called once in his extremity, and none had come; he would
never call again.

       *       *       *       *       *

A lion shorn of his strength, an eagle robbed of his freedom, or a dove bereft of his mate,
all die, it is said, of a broken heart; and who will aver that this grim bandit could bear
the threefold brunt, heart-whole? This only I know, that when the morning dawned, he was lying
there still in his position of calm repose, but his spirit was gone-the old king-wolf was dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

I took the chain from his neck, a cowboy helped me to carry him to the shed where lay the remains
of Blanca, and as we laid him beside her, the cattle-man exclaimed: "There, you would come
to her, now you are together again."

REDRUFF

THE STORY OF THE DON VALLEY PARTRIDGE

I

Down the wooded slope of Taylor's Hill the Mother Partridge led her brood; down toward the
crystal brook that by some strange whim was called Mud Creek. Her little ones were one day
old but already quick on foot, and she was taking them for the first time to drink.

She walked slowly, crouching low as she went, for the woods were full of enemies. She was uttering
a soft little cluck in her throat, a call to the little balls of mottled down that on their
tiny pink legs came toddling after, and peeping softly and plaintively if left even a few inches
behind, and seeming so fragile they made the very chicadees look big and coarse. There were
twelve of them, but Mother Grouse watched them all, and she watched every bush and tree and
thicket, and the whole woods and the sky itself. Always for enemies she seemed seeking--friends
were too scarce to be looked for--and an enemy she found. Away across the level beaver meadow
was a great brute of a fox. He was coming their way, and in a few moments would surely wind
them or strike their trail. There was no time to lose.

'Krrr! Krrr! (Hide! Hide!) cried the mother in a low, firm voice, and the little bits of things,
scarcely bigger than acorns and but a day old, scattered far (a few inches) apart to hide.
One dived under a leaf, another between two roots, a third crawled into a curl of birch-bark,
a fourth into a hole, and so on, till all were hidden but one who could find no cover, so squatted
on a broad yellow chip and lay very flat, and closed his eyes very tight, sure that now he
was safe from being seen. They ceased their frightened peeping and all was still.

Mother Partridge flew straight toward the dreaded beast, alighted fearlessly a few yards to
one side of him, and then flung herself on the ground, flopping as though winged and lame--oh,
so dreadfully lame-and whining like a distressed puppy. Was she begging for mercy--mercy from
a bloodthirsty, cruel fox? Oh, dear, no! She was no fool. One often hears of the cunning of
the fox. Wait and see what a fool he is compared with a mother-partridge. Elated at the prize
so suddenly within his reach, the fox turned with a dash and caught--at least, no, he didn't
quite catch the bird; she flopped by chance just a foot out of reach. He followed with another
jump and would have seized her this time surely, but somehow a sapling came just between, and
the partridge dragged herself awkwardly away and under a log, but the great brute snapped his
jaws and bounded over the log, while she, seeming a trifle less lame, made another clumsy forward
spring and tumbled down a bank, and Reynard, keenly following, almost caught her tail, but,
oddly enough, fast as he went and leaped, she still seemed just a trifle faster. It was most
extraordinary. A winged partridge and he, Reynard, the Swift-foot, had not caught her in five
minutes' racing. It was really shameful. But the partridge seemed to gain strength as the fox
put forth his, and after a quarter of a mile race, racing that was somehow all away from Taylor's
Hill, the bird got unaccountably quite well, and, rising with a decisive whirr, flew off through
the woods, leaving the fox utterly dumfounded to realize that he had been made a fool of, and,
worst of all, he now remembered that this was not the first time he had been served this very
trick, though he never knew the reason for it.

Meanwhile Mother Partridge skimmed in a great circle and came by a roundabout way back to the
little fuzz-balls she had left hidden in the woods.

With a wild bird's keen memory for places, she went to the very grass-blade she last trod on,
and stood for a moment fondly to admire the perfect stillness of her children. Even at her
step not one had stirred, and the little fellow on the chip, not so very badly concealed after
all, had not budged, nor did he now; he only closed his eyes a tiny little bit harder, till
the mother said:

'K-reet,' (Come, children) and instantly, like a fairy story, every hole gave up its little
baby-partridge, and the wee fellow on the chip, the biggest of them all really, opened his
big-little eyes and ran to the shelter of her broad tail, with a sweet little 'peep peep' which
an enemy could not have heard three feet away, but which his mother could not have missed thrice
as far, and all the other thimblefuls of down joined in, and no doubt thought themselves dreadfully
noisy, and were proportionately happy.

The sun was hot now. There was an open space to cross on the road to the water, and, after
a careful lookout for enemies, the mother gathered the little things under the shadow of her
spread fantail and kept off all danger of sunstroke until they reached the brier thicket by
the stream.

Here a cottontail rabbit leaped out and gave them a great scare. But the flag of truce he carried
behind was enough. He was an old friend; and among other things the little ones learned that
day that Bunny always sails under a flag of truce, and lives up to it too.

And then came the drink, the purest of living water, though silly men had called it Mud Creek.

At first the little fellows didn't know how to drink, but they copied their mother, and soon
learned to drink like her and give thanks after every sip. There they stood in a row along
the edge, twelve little brown and golden balls on twenty-four little pink-toed, in-turned feet,
with twelve sweet little golden heads gravely bowing, drinking, and giving thanks like their
mother.

Then she led them by short stages, keeping the cover, to the far side of the beaver-meadow,
where was a great, grassy dome. The mother had made a note of this dome some time before. It
takes a number of such domes to raise a brood of partridges. For this was an ant's nest. The
old one stepped on top, looked about a moment, then gave half a dozen vigorous rakes with her
claws. The friable ant-hilt was broken open, and the earthen galleries scattered in ruins down
the slope. The ants swarmed out and quarrelled with each other for lack of a better plan. Some
ran around the hill with vast energy and little purpose, while a few of the more sensible began
to carry away fat white eggs. But the old partridge, coming to the little ones, picked up one
of these juicy-looking bags and clucked and dropped it, and picked it up again and again and
clucked, then swallowed it. The young ones stood around, then one little yellow fellow, the
one that sat on the chip, picked up an ant-egg, dropped it a few times, then yielding to a
sudden impulse, swallowed it, and so had learned to eat. Within twenty minutes even the runt
had learned, and a merry time they had scrambling after the delicious eggs as their mother
broke open more ant-galleries, and sent them and their contents rolling down the bank, till
every little partridge had so crammed his little crop that he was positively misshapen and
could eat no more.

Then all went cautiously up the stream, and on a sandy bank, well screened by brambles, they
lay for all that afternoon, and learned how pleasant it was to feel the cool, powdery dust
running between their hot little toes. With their strong bent for copying, they lay on their
sides like their mother and scratched with their tiny feet and flopped with their wings, though
they had no wings to flop with, only a little tag among the down on each side, to show where
the wings would come. That night she took them to a dry thicket near by, and there among the
crisp, dead leaves that would prevent an enemy's silent approach on foot, and under the interlacing
briers that kept off all foes of the air, she cradled them in their feather-shingled nursery
and rejoiced in the fulness of a mother's joy over the wee cuddling things that peeped in their
steep and snuggled so trustfully against her warm body.

II

The third day the chicks were much stronger on their feet. They no longer had to go around
an acorn; they could even scramble over pine-cones, and on the little tags that marked the
places for their wings, were now to be seen blue rows of fat blood-quills.

Their start in life was a good mother, good legs, a few reliable instincts, and a germ of reason.
It was instinct, that is, inherited habit, which taught them to hide at the word from their
mother; it was instinct that taught them to follow her, but it was reason which made them keep
under the shadow of her tail when the sun was smiting down, and from that day reason entered
more and more into their expanding lives.

Next day the blood-quills had sprouted the tips of feathers. On the next, the feathers were
well out, and a week later the whole family of down-clad babies were strong on the wing.

And yet not all--poor little Runtie had been sickly from the first. He bore his half-shell
on his back for hours after he came out; he ran less and cheeped more than his brothers, and
when one evening at the onset of a skunk the mother gave the word 'Kwit, kwit' (Fly, fly),
Runtie was left behind, and when she gathered her brood on the piney hill he was missing, and
they saw him no more.

Meanwhile, their training had gone on. They knew that the finest grasshoppers abounded in the
long grass by the brook; they knew that the currant-bushes dropped fatness in the form of smooth,
green worms; they knew that the dome of an ant-hill rising against the distant woods stood
for a garner of plenty; they knew that strawberries, though not really insects, were almost
as delicious; they knew that the huge danaid butterflies were good, safe game, if they could
only catch them, and that a slab of bark dropping from the side of a rotten log was sure to
abound in good things of many different kinds; and they had learned, also, the yellow-jackets,
mud-wasps, woolly worms, and hundred-leggers were better let alone.

It was now July, the Moon of Berries. The chicks had grown and flourished amazingly during
this last month, and were now so large that in her efforts to cover them the mother was kept
standing all night.

They took their daily dust-bath, but of late had changed to another higher on the hill. It
was one in use by many different birds, and at first the mother disliked the idea of such a
second-hand bath. But the dust was of such a fine, agreeable quality, and the children led
the way with such enthusiasm, that she forgot her mistrust.

After a fortnight the little ones began to droop and she herself did not feel very well. They
were always hungry, and though they ate enormously, they one and all grew thinner and thinner.
The mother was the last to be affected. But when it came, it came as hard on her--a ravenous
hunger, a feverish headache, and a wasting weakness. She never knew the cause. She could not
know that the dust of the much-used dust-bath, that her true instinct taught her to mistrust
at first, and now again to shun, was sown with parasitic worms, and that all of the family
were infested.

No natural impulse is without a purpose. The mother-bird's knowledge of healing was only to
follow natural impulse. The eager, feverish craving for something, she knew not what, led her
to eat, or try, everything that looked eatable and to seek the coolest woods. And there she
found a deadly sumach laden with its poison fruit. A month ago she would have passed it by,
but now she tried the unattractive berries. The acrid burning juice seemed to answer some strange
demand of her body; she ate and ate, and all her family joined in the strange feast of physic.
No human doctor could have hit it better; it proved a biting, drastic purge, the dreadful secret
foe was downed, the danger passed. But not for all--Nature, the old nurse, had come too late
for two of them. The weakest, by inexorable law, dropped out. Enfeebled by the disease, the
remedy was too severe for them. They drank and drank by the stream, and next morning did not
move when the others followed the mother. Strange vengeance was theirs now, for a skunk, the
same that could have told where Runtie went, found and devoured their bodies and died of the
poison they had eaten.

Seven little partridges now obeyed the mother's call. Their individual characters were early
shown and now developed fast. The weaklings were gone, but there was still a fool and a lazy
one. The mother could not help caring for some more than for others, and her favorite was the
biggest, he who once sat on the yellow chip for concealment. He was not only the biggest, strongest,
and handsomest of the brood, the best of all, the most obedient. His mother's warning 'rrrrr'
(danger) did not always keep the others from a risky path or a doubtful food, but obedience
seemed natural to him, and he never failed to respond to her soft 'K-reet' (Come), and of this
obedience he reaped the reward, for his days were longest in the land.

August, the Molting Moon, went by; the young ones were now three parts grown. They knew just
enough to think themselves wonderfully wise. When they were small it was necessary to sleep
on the ground so their mother could shelter them, but now they were too big to need that, and
the mother began to introduce grown-up ways of life. It was time to roost in the trees. The
young weasels, foxes, skunks, and minks were beginning to run. The ground grew more dangerous
each night, so at sundown Mother Partridge called 'K-reet' and flew into a thick, low tree.

The little ones followed, except one, an obstinate little fool who persisted in sleeping on
the ground as heretofore. It was all right that time, but the next night his brothers were
awakened by his cries. There was a slight scuffle, then stillness, broken only by a horrid
sound of crunching bones and a smacking of lips. They peered down into the terrible darkness
below, where the glint of two close-set eyes and a peculiar musty smell told them that a mink
was the killer of their fool brother.

Six little partridges now sat in a row at night, with their mother in the middle, though it
was not unusual for some little one with cold feet to perch on her back.

Their education went on, and about this time they were taught 'whirring.' A partridge can rise
on the wing silently if it wishes, but whirring is so important at times that all are taught
how and when to rise on thundering wings. Many ends are gained by the whirr. It warns all other
partridges near that danger is at hand, it unnerves the gunner, or it fixes the foe's attention
on the whirrer, while the others sneak off in silence, or by squatting, escape notice.

A partridge adage might well be 'foes and food for every moon.' September came, with seeds
and grain in place of berries and ant-eggs, and gunners in place of skunks and minks.

The partridges knew well what a fox was, but had scarcely seen a dog. A fox they knew they
could easily baffle by taking to a tree, but when in the Gunner Moon old Cuddy came prowling
through the ravine with his bob-tailed yellow cur, the mother spied the dog and cried out Kwit!
Kwit!" (Fly, fly). Two of the brood thought it a pity their mother should lose her wits so
easily over a fox, and were pleased to show their superior nerve by springing into a tree in
spite of her earnestly repeated 'Kwit! Kwit!' and her example of speeding away on silent wings.

Meanwhile, the strange bob-tailed fox came under the tree and yapped and yapped at them. They
were much amused at him and at their mother and brothers, so much so that they never noticed
a rustling in the bushes till there was a loud Bang! bang! and down fell two bloody, flopping
partridges, to be seized and mangled by the yellow cur until the gunner ran from the bushes
and rescued the remains.

III

Cuddy lived in a wretched shanty near the Don, north of Toronto. His was what Greek philosophy
would have demonstrated to be an ideal existence. He had no wealth, no taxes, no social pretensions,
and no property to speak of. His life was made up of a very little work and a great deal of
play, with as much out-door life as he chose. He considered himself a true sportsman because
he was 'fond o' huntin',' and 'took a sight o' comfort out of seein' the critters hit the mud'
when his gun was fired. The neighbors called him a squatter, and looked on him merely as an
anchored tramp. He shot and trapped the year round, and varied his game somewhat with the season
perforce, but had been heard to remark he could tell the month by the 'taste o' the patridges,'
if he didn't happen to know by the almanac. This, no doubt, showed keen observation, but was
also unfortunate proof of something not so creditable. The lawful season for murdering partridges
began September 15th, but there was nothing surprising in Cuddy's being out a fortnight ahead
of time. Yet he managed to escape punishment year after year, and even contrived to pose in
a newspaper interview as an interesting character.

He rarely shot on the wing, preferring to pot his birds, which was not easy to do when the
leaves were on, and accounted for the brood in the third ravine going so long unharmed; but
the near prospect of other gunners finding them now, had stirred him to go after 'a mess of
birds.' He had heard no roar of wings when the mother-bird led off her four survivors, so pocketed
the two he had killed and returned to the shanty.

The little grouse thus learned that a dog is not a fox, and must be differently played; and
an old lesson was yet more deeply graven--'Obedience is long life.'

The rest of September was passed in keeping quietly out of the way of gunners as well as some
old enemies. They still roosted on the long, thin branches of the hardwood trees among the
thickest leaves, which protected them from foes in the air; the height saved them from foes
on the ground, and left them nothing to fear but coons, whose slow, heavy tread on the limber
boughs never failed to give them timely warning. But the leaves were falling now--every month
its foes and its food. This was nut time, and it was owl time, too. Barred owls coming down
from the north doubled or trebled the owl population. The nights were getting frosty and the
coons less dangerous, so the mother changed the place of roosting to the thickest foliage of
a hemlock-tree.

Only one of the brood disregarded the warning 'Kreet, kreet.' He stuck to his swinging elm-bough,
now nearly naked, and a great yellow-eyed owl bore him off before morning.

Mother and three young ones now were left, but they were as big as she was; indeed one, the
eldest, he of the chip, was bigger. Their ruffs had begun to show. Just the tips, to tell what
they would be like when grown, and not a little proud they were of them.

The ruff is to the partridge what the train is to the peacock--his chief beauty and his pride.
A hen's ruff is black with a slight green gloss. A cock's is much larger and blacker and is
glossed with more vivid bottle-green. Once in a while a partridge is born of unusual size and
vigor, whose ruff is not only larger, but by a peculiar kind of intensification is of a deep
coppery red, iridescent with violet, green, and gold. Such a bird is sure to be a wonder to
all who know him, and the little one who had squatted on the chip, and had always done what
he was told, developed before the Acorn Moon had changed, into all the glory of a gold and
copper ruff-for this was Redruff, the famous partridge of the Don Valley.

IV

One day late in the Acorn Moon, that is, about mid-October, as the grouse family were basking
with full crops near a great pine log on the sunlit edge of the beaver-meadow, they heard the
far-away bang of a gun, and Redruff, acting on some impulse from within, leaped on the log,
strutted up and down a couple of times, then, yielding to the elation of the bright, clear,
bracing air, he whirred his wings in loud defiance. Then, giving fuller vent to this expression
of vigor, just as a colt frisks to show how well he feels, he whirred yet more loudly, until,
unwittingly, he found himself drumming, and tickled with the discovery of his new power, thumped
the air again and again till he filled the near woods with the loud tattoo of the fully grown
cock-partridge. His brother and sister heard and looked on with admiration and surprise; so
did his mother, but from that time she began to be a little afraid of him.

In early November comes the moon of a weird foe. By a strange law of nature, not wholly without
parallel among mankind, all partridges go crazy in the November moon of their first year. They
become possessed of a mad hankering to get away somewhere, it does not matter much where. And
the wisest of them do all sorts of foolish things at this period. They go drifting, perhaps,
at speed over the country by night, and are cut in two by wires, or dash into lighthouses,
or locomotive headlights. Daylight finds them in all sorts of absurd places, in buildings,
in open marshes, perched on telephone wires in a great city, or even on board of coasting vessels.
The craze seems to be a relic of a bygone habit of migration, and it has at least one good
effect, it breaks up the families and prevents the constant intermarrying, which would surely
be fatal to their race. It always takes the young badly their first year, and they may have
it again the second fall, for it is very catching; but in the third season it is practically
unknown.

Redruff's mother knew it was coming as soon as she saw the frost grapes blackening, and the
maples shedding their crimson and gold. There was nothing to do but care for their health and
keep them in the quietest part of the woods.

The first sign of it came when a flock of wild geese went honking southward overhead. The young
ones had never before seen such long-necked hawks, and were afraid of them. But seeing that
their mother had no fear, they took courage, and watched them with intense interest. Was it
the wild, clanging cry that moved them, or was it solely the inner prompting then come to the
surface? A strange longing to follow took possession of each of the young ones. They watched
those arrowy trumpeters fading away to the south, and sought out higher perches to watch them
farther yet, and from that time things were no more the same. The November moon was waxing,
and when it was full, the November madness came.

The least vigorous of the flock were most affected. The little family was scattered. Redruff
himself flew on several long erratic night journeys. The impulse took him southward, out there
lay the boundless stretch of Lake Ontario, so he turned again, and the waning of the Mad Moon
found him once more in the Mud Creek Glen, but absolutely alone.

V

Food grew scarce as winter wore on. Redruff clung to the old ravine and the piney sides of
Taylor's Hill, but every month brought its food and its foes. The Mad Moon brought madness,
solitude, and grapes; the Snow Moon came with rosehips; and the Stormy Moon brought browse
of birch and silver storms that sheathed the woods in ice, and made it hard to keep one's perch
while pulling off the frozen buds. Redruff's beak grew terribly worn with the work, so that
even when closed there was still an opening through behind the hook. But nature had prepared
him for the slippery footing; his toes, so slim and trim in September, had sprouted rows of
sharp, horny points, and these grew with the growing cold, till the first snow had found him
fully equipped with snowshoes and ice-creepers. The cold weather had driven away most of the
hawks and owls, and made it impossible for his four-footed enemies to approach unseen, so that
things were nearly balanced.

His flight in search of food had daily led him farther on, till he had discovered and explored
the Rosedale Creek, with its banks of silver-birch, and Castle Frank, with its grapes and rowan
berries, as well as Chester woods, where amelanchier and Virginia-creeper swung their fruit-bunches,
and checkerberries glowed beneath the snow.

He soon found out that for some strange reason men with guns did not go within the high fence
of Castle-Frank. So among these scenes he lived his life, learning new places, new foods, and
grew wiser and more beautiful every day.

He was quite alone so far as kindred were concerned, but that scarcely seemed a hardship. Wherever
he went he could see the jolly chickadees scrambling merrily about, and he remembered the time
when they had seemed such big, important creatures. They were the most absurdly cheerful things
in the woods. Before the autumn was fairly over they had begun to sing their famous refrain,
'Spring Soon,' and kept it up with good heart more or less all through the winter's direst
storms, till at length the waning of the Hungry Moon, our February, seemed really to lend some
point to the ditty, and they redoubled their optimistic announcement to the world in an 'I-told-you-so'
mood. Soon good support was found, for the sun gained strength and melted the snow from the
southern slope of Castle Frank Hill, and exposed great banks of fragrant wintergreen, whose
berries were a bounteous feast for Redruff, and, ending the hard work of pulling frozen browse,
gave his bill the needed chance to grow into its proper shape again. Very soon the first bluebird
came flying over and warbled as he flew 'The spring is coming.' The sun kept gaining, and early
one day in the dark of the Wakening Moon of March there was a loud 'Caw, caw,' and old Silverspot,
the king-crow, came swinging along from the south at the head of his troops and officially
announced

     'THE SPRING HAS COME.'

All nature seemed to respond to this, the opening of the birds' New Year, and yet it was something
within that chiefly seemed to move them. The chickadees went simply wild; they sang their 'Spring
now, spring now now--Spring now now,' so persistently that one wondered how they found time
to get a living.

And Redruff felt it thrill him through and through. He sprang with joyous vigor on a stump
and sent rolling down the little valley, again and again, a thundering 'Thump, thump, thump,
thunderrrrrrrrr,' that wakened dull echoes as it rolled, and voiced his gladness in the coming
of the spring.

Away down the valley was Cuddy's shanty. He heard the drum-call on the still morning air and
'reckoned there was a cock patridge to git,' and came sneaking up the ravine with his gun.
But Redruff skimmed away in silence, nor rested till once more in Mud Creek Glen. And there
he mounted the very log where first he had drummed and rolled his loud tattoo again and again,
till a small boy who had taken a short cut to the mill through the woods, ran home, badly scared,
to tell his mother he was sure the Indians were on the war-path, for he heard their war-drums
beating in the glen.

Why does a happy boy holla? Why does a lonesome youth sigh? They don't know any more than Redruff
knew why every day now he mounted some dead log and thumped and thundered to the woods; then
strutted and admired his gorgeous blazing ruffs as they flashed their jewels in the sunlight,
and then thundered out again. Whence now came the strange wish for someone else to admire the
plumes? And why had such a notion never come till the Pussywillow Moon?

     'Thump, thump, thunder-r-r.r-r-r-rrrr'
     'Thump, thump, thunder-r-r-r-r-r-rrrr'

he rumbled again and again.

Day after day he sought the favorite log, and a new beauty, a rose-red comb, grew out above
each clear, keen eye, and the clumsy snow-*shoes were wholly shed from his feet. His ruff grew
finer, his eye brighter, and his whole appearance splendid to behold, as he strutted and flashed
in the sun. But-oh! he was so lonesome now.

Yet what could he do but blindly vent his hankering in this daily drum-parade, till on a day
early in loveliest May, when the trilliums had fringed his log with silver stars, and he had
drummed and longed, then drummed again, his keen ear caught a sound, a gentle footfall in the
brush. He turned to a statue and watched; he knew he had been watched. Could it be possible?
Yes! there it was--a form--another--a shy little lady grouse, now bashfully seeking to hide.
In a moment he was by her side. His whole nature swamped by a new feeling--burnt up with thirst--a
cooling spring in sight. And how he spread and flashed his proud array! How came he to know
that that would please? He puffed his plumes and contrived to stand just right to catch the
sun, and strutted and uttered a low, soft chuckle that must have been just as good as the 'sweet
nothings' of another race, for clearly now her heart was won. Won, really, days ago, if only
he had known. For full three days she had come at the loud tattoo and coyly admired him from
afar, and felt a little piqued that he had not yet found her out, so close at hand. So it was
not quite all mischance, perhaps, that that little stamp had caught his ear. But now she meekly
bowed her head with sweet, submissive grace--the desert passed, the parch-burnt wanderer found
the spring at last.

       *       *       *       *       *

Oh, those were bright, glad days in the lovely glen of the unlovely name. The sun was never
so bright, and the piney air was balmier sweet than dreams. And that great noble bird came
daily on his log, sometimes with her and sometimes quite alone, and drummed for very joy of
being alive. But why sometimes alone? Why not forever with his Brownie bride? Why should she
stay to feast and play with him for hours, then take some stealthy chance to slip away and
see him no more for hours or till next day, when his martial music from the log announced him
restless for her quick return? There was a woodland mystery here he could not clear. Why should
her stay with him grow daily less till it was down to minutes, and one day at last she never
came at all. Nor the next, nor the next, and Redruff, wild, careered on lightning wing and
drummed on the old log, then away up-stream on another log, and skimmed the hill to another
ravine to drum and drum. But on the fourth day, when he came and loudly called her, as of old,
at their earliest tryst, he heard a sound in the bushes, as at first, and there was his missing
Brownie bride with ten little peeping partridges following after.

Redruff skimmed to her side, terribly frightening the bright-eyed downlings, and was just a
little dashed to find the brood with claims far stronger than his own. But he soon accepted
the change, and thenceforth joined himself to the brood, caring for them as his father never
had for him.

VI

Good fathers are rare in the grouse world. The mother-grouse builds her nest and hatches out
her young without help. She even hides the place of the nest from the father and meets him
only at the drum-log and the feeding-ground, or perhaps the dusting-place, which is the club-house
of the grouse kind.

When Brownie's little ones came out they had filled her every thought, even to the forgetting
of their splendid father. But on the third day, when they were strong enough, she had taken
them with her at the father's call.

Some fathers take no interest in their little ones, but Redruff joined at once to help Brownie
in the task of rearing the brood. They had learned to eat and drink just as their father had
learned long ago, and could toddle along, with their mother leading the way, while the father
ranged near by or followed far behind.

The very next day, as they went from the hill-side down toward the creek in a somewhat drawn-out
string, like beads with a big one at each end, a red squirrel, peeping around a pine-trunk,
watched the processing of downlings with the Runtie straggling far in the rear. Redruff, yards
behind, preening his feathers on a high log, had escaped the eye of the squirrel, whose strange,
perverted thirst for birdling blood was roused at what seemed so fair a chance. With murderous
intent to cut off the hindmost straggler, he made a dash. Brownie could not have seen him until
too late, but Redruff did. He flew for that red-haired cutthroat; his weapons were his fists,
that is, the knob-joints of the wings, and what a blow he could strike! At the first onset
he struck the squirrel square on the end of the nose, his weakest spot, and sent him reeling;
he staggered and wriggled into a brush-pile, where he had expected to carry the little grouse,
and there lay gasping with red drops trickling down his wicked snout. The partridges left him
lying there, and what became of him they never knew, but he troubled them no more.

The family went on toward the water, but a cow had left deep tracks in the sandy loam, and
into one of these fell one of the chicks and peeped in dire distress when he found he could
not get out.

