Tilly had abandoned the hope of taking the town, before the arrival of the Swedes, by the means
which he had hitherto adopted; he therefore determined to raise the siege, but first to hazard
a general assault. This plan, however, was attended with great difficulties, as no breach had
been effected, and the works were scarcely injured.  But the council of war assembled on this
occasion, declared for an assault, citing the example of Maestricht, which had been taken early
in the morning, while the citizens and soldiers were reposing themselves.  The attack was to
be made simultaneously on four points; the night betwixt the 9th and 10th of May, was employed
in the necessary preparations.  Every thing was ready and awaiting the signal, which was to
be given by cannon at five o'clock in the morning.  The signal, however, was not given for
two hours later, during which Tilly, who was still doubtful of success, again consulted the
council of war.  Pappenheim was ordered to attack the works of the new town, where the attempt
was favoured by a sloping rampart, and a dry ditch of moderate depth.  The citizens and soldiers
had mostly left the walls, and the few who remained were overcome with sleep.  This general,
therefore, found little difficulty in mounting the wall at the head of his troops.

Falkenberg, roused by the report of musketry, hastened from the town-house, where he was employed
in despatching Tilly's second trumpeter, and hurried with all the force he could hastily assemble
towards the gate of the new town, which was already in the possession of the enemy.  Beaten
back, this intrepid general flew to another quarter, where a second party of the enemy were
preparing to scale the walls. After an ineffectual resistance he fell in the commencement of
the action.  The roaring of musketry, the pealing of the alarm-bells, and the growing tumult
apprised the awakening citizens of their danger. Hastily arming themselves, they rushed in
blind confusion against the enemy.  Still some hope of repulsing the besiegers remained; but
the governor being killed, their efforts were without plan and co-operation, and at last their
ammunition began to fail them.  In the meanwhile, two other gates, hitherto unattacked, were
stripped of their defenders, to meet the urgent danger within the town.  The enemy quickly
availed themselves of this confusion to attack these posts.  The resistance was nevertheless
spirited and obstinate, until four imperial regiments, at length, masters of the ramparts,
fell upon the garrison in the rear, and completed their rout.  Amidst the general tumult, a
brave captain, named Schmidt, who still headed a few of the more resolute against the enemy,
succeeded in driving them to the gates; here he fell mortally wounded, and with him expired
the hopes of Magdeburg.  Before noon, all the works were carried, and the town was in the enemy's
hands.

Two gates were now opened by the storming party for the main body, and Tilly marched in with
part of his infantry.  Immediately occupying the principal streets, he drove the citizens with
pointed cannon into their dwellings, there to await their destiny.  They were not long held
in suspense; a word from Tilly decided the fate of Magdeburg.

Even a more humane general would in vain have recommended mercy to such soldiers; but Tilly
never made the attempt.  Left by their general's silence masters of the lives of all the citizens,
the soldiery broke into the houses to satiate their most brutal appetites.  The prayers of
innocence excited some compassion in the hearts of the Germans, but none in the rude breasts
of Pappenheim's Walloons.  Scarcely had the savage cruelty commenced, when the other gates
were thrown open, and the cavalry, with the fearful hordes of the Croats, poured in upon the
devoted inhabitants.

Here commenced a scene of horrors for which history has no language-- poetry no pencil.  Neither
innocent childhood, nor helpless old age; neither youth, sex, rank, nor beauty, could disarm
the fury of the conquerors.  Wives were abused in the arms of their husbands, daughters at
the feet of their parents; and the defenceless sex exposed to the double sacrifice of virtue
and life.  No situation, however obscure, or however sacred, escaped the rapacity of the enemy.
Some officers of the League, horror-struck at this dreadful scene, ventured to remind Tilly
that he had it in his power to stop the carnage.  "Return in an hour," was his answer; "I will
see what I can do; the soldier must have some reward for his danger and toils."  These horrors
lasted with unabated fury, till at last the smoke and flames proved a check to the plunderers.
To augment the confusion and to divert the resistance of the inhabitants, the Imperialists
had, in the commencement of the assault, fired the town in several places.  The wind rising
rapidly, spread the flames, till the blaze became universal.  Fearful, indeed, was the tumult
amid clouds of smoke, heaps of dead bodies, the clash of swords, the crash of falling ruins,
and streams of blood.  The atmosphere glowed; and the intolerable heat forced at last even
the murderers to take refuge in their camp.  In less than twelve hours, this strong, populous,
and flourishing city, one of the finest in Germany, was reduced to ashes, with the exception
of two churches and a few houses.  The Administrator, Christian William, after receiving several
wounds, was taken prisoner, with three of the burgomasters; most of the officers and magistrates
had already met an enviable death.  The avarice of the officers had saved 400 of the richest
citizens, in the hope of extorting from them an exorbitant ransom.  But this humanity was confined
to the officers of the League, whom the ruthless barbarity of the Imperialists caused to be
regarded as guardian angels.

Scarcely had the fury of the flames abated, when the Imperialists returned to renew the pillage
amid the ruins and ashes of the town. Many were suffocated by the smoke; many found rich booty
in the cellars, where the citizens had concealed their more valuable effects.  On the 13th
of May, Tilly himself appeared in the town, after the streets had been cleared of ashes and
dead bodies.  Horrible and revolting to humanity was the scene that presented itself.  The
living crawling from under the dead, children wandering about with heart-rending cries, calling
for their parents; and infants still sucking the breasts of their lifeless mothers.  More than
6,000 bodies were thrown into the Elbe to clear the streets; a much greater number had been
consumed by the flames.  The whole number of the slain was reckoned at not less than 30,000.

The entrance of the general, which took place on the 14th, put a stop to the plunder, and saved
the few who had hitherto contrived to escape. About a thousand people were taken out of the
cathedral, where they had remained three days and two nights, without food, and in momentary
fear of death.  Tilly promised them quarter, and commanded bread to be distributed among them.
The next day, a solemn mass was performed in the cathedral, and 'Te Deum' sung amidst the discharge
of artillery. The imperial general rode through the streets, that he might be able, as an eyewitness,
to inform his master that no such conquest had been made since the destruction of Troy and
Jerusalem.  Nor was this an exaggeration, whether we consider the greatness, importance, and
prosperity of the city razed, or the fury of its ravagers.

In Germany, the tidings of the dreadful fate of Magdeburg caused triumphant joy to the Roman
Catholics, while it spread terror and consternation among the Protestants.  Loudly and generally
they complained against the king of Sweden, who, with so strong a force, and in the very neighbourhood,
had left an allied city to its fate.  Even the most reasonable deemed his inaction inexplicable;
and lest he should lose irretrievably the good will of the people, for whose deliverance he
had engaged in this war, Gustavus was under the necessity of publishing to the world a justification
of his own conduct.

He had attacked, and on the 16th April, carried Landsberg, when he was apprised of the danger
of Magdeburg.  He resolved immediately to march to the relief of that town; and he moved with
all his cavalry, and ten regiments of infantry towards the Spree.  But the position which he
held in Germany, made it necessary that he should not move forward without securing his rear.
In traversing a country where he was surrounded by suspicious friends and dangerous enemies,
and where a single premature movement might cut off his communication with his own kingdom,
the utmost vigilance and caution were necessary.  The Elector of Brandenburg had already opened
the fortress of Custrin to the flying Imperialists, and closed the gates against their pursuers.
If now Gustavus should fail in his attack upon Tilly, the Elector might again open his fortresses
to the Imperialists, and the king, with an enemy both in front and rear, would be irrecoverably
lost.  In order to prevent this contingency, he demanded that the Elector should allow him
to hold the fortresses of Custrin and Spandau, till the siege of Magdeburg should be raised.

Nothing could be more reasonable than this demand.  The services which Gustavus had lately
rendered the Elector, by expelling the Imperialists from Brandenburg, claimed his gratitude,
while the past conduct of the Swedes in Germany entitled them to confidence.  But by the surrender
of his fortresses, the Elector would in some measure make the King of Sweden master of his
country; besides that, by such a step, he must at once break with the Emperor, and expose his
States to his future vengeance.  The Elector's struggle with himself was long and violent,
but pusillanimity and self-interest for awhile prevailed.  Unmoved by the fate of Magdeburg,
cold in the cause of religion and the liberties of Germany, he saw nothing but his own danger;
and this anxiety was greatly stimulated by his minister Von Schwartzenburgh, who was secretly
in the pay of Austria.  In the mean time, the Swedish troops approached Berlin, and the king
took up his residence with the Elector.  When he witnessed the timorous hesitation of that
prince, he could not restrain his indignation:  "My road is to Magdeburg," said he; "not for
my own advantage, but for that of the Protestant religion.  If no one will stand by me, I shall
immediately retreat, conclude a peace with the Emperor, and return to Stockholm.  I am convinced
that Ferdinand will readily grant me whatever conditions I may require.  But if Magdeburg is
once lost, and the Emperor relieved from all fear of me, then it is for you to look to yourselves
and the consequences." This timely threat, and perhaps, too, the aspect of the Swedish army,
which was strong enough to obtain by force what was refused to entreaty, brought at last the
Elector to his senses, and Spandau was delivered into the hands of the Swedes.

The king had now two routes to Magdeburg; one westward led through an exhausted country, and
filled with the enemy's troops, who might dispute with him the passage of the Elbe; the other
more to the southward, by Dessau and Wittenberg, where bridges were to be found for crossing
the Elbe, and where supplies could easily be drawn from Saxony.  But he could not avail himself
of the latter without the consent of the Elector, whom Gustavus had good reason to distrust.
Before setting out on his march, therefore, he demanded from that prince a free passage and
liberty for purchasing provisions for his troops.  His application was refused, and no remonstrances
could prevail on the Elector to abandon his system of neutrality.  While the point was still
in dispute, the news of the dreadful fate of Magdeburg arrived.

Tilly announced its fall to the Protestant princes in the tone of a conqueror, and lost no
time in making the most of the general consternation.  The influence of the Emperor, which
had sensibly declined during the rapid progress of Gustavus, after this decisive blow rose
higher than ever; and the change was speedily visible in the imperious tone he adopted towards
the Protestant states.  The decrees of the Confederation of Leipzig were annulled by a proclamation,
the Convention itself suppressed by an imperial decree, and all the refractory states threatened
with the fate of Magdeburg.  As the executor of this imperial mandate, Tilly immediately ordered
troops to march against the Bishop of Bremen, who was a member of the Confederacy, and had
himself enlisted soldiers.  The terrified bishop immediately gave up his forces to Tilly, and
signed the revocation of the acts of the Confederation.  An imperial army, which had lately
returned from Italy, under the command of Count Furstenberg, acted in the same manner towards
the Administrator of Wirtemberg.  The duke was compelled to submit to the Edict of Restitution,
and all the decrees of the Emperor, and even to pay a monthly subsidy of 100,000 dollars, for
the maintenance of the imperial troops.  Similar burdens were inflicted upon Ulm and Nuremberg,
and the entire circles of Franconia and Swabia.  The hand of the Emperor was stretched in terror
over all Germany.  The sudden preponderance, more in appearance, perhaps, than in reality,
which he had obtained by this blow, carried him beyond the bounds even of the moderation which
he had hitherto observed, and misled him into hasty and violent measures, which at last turned
the wavering resolution of the German princes in favour of Gustavus Adolphus.  Injurious as
the immediate consequences of the fall of Magdeburg were to the Protestant cause, its remoter
effects were most advantageous.  The past surprise made way for active resentment, despair
inspired courage, and the German freedom rose, like a phoenix, from the ashes of Magdeburg.

Among the princes of the Leipzig Confederation, the Elector of Saxony and the Landgrave of
Hesse were the most powerful; and, until they were disarmed, the universal authority of the
Emperor was unconfirmed. Against the Landgrave, therefore, Tilly first directed his attack,
and marched straight from Magdeburg into Thuringia.  During this march, the territories of
Saxe Ernest and Schwartzburg were laid waste, and Frankenhausen plundered before the very eyes
of Tilly, and laid in ashes with impunity.  The unfortunate peasant paid dear for his master's
attachment to the interests of Sweden.  Erfurt, the key of Saxony and Franconia, was threatened
with a siege, but redeemed itself by a voluntary contribution of money and provisions.  From
thence, Tilly despatched his emissaries to the Landgrave, demanding of him the immediate disbanding
of his army, a renunciation of the league of Leipzig, the reception of imperial garrisons into
his territories and fortresses, with the necessary contributions, and the declaration of friendship
or hostility.  Such was the treatment which a prince of the Empire was compelled to submit
to from a servant of the Emperor.  But these extravagant demands acquired a formidable weight
from the power which supported them; and the dreadful fate of Magdeburg, still fresh in the
memory of the Landgrave, tended still farther to enforce them. Admirable, therefore, was the
intrepidity of the Landgrave's answer: "To admit foreign troops into his capital and fortresses,
the Landgrave is not disposed; his troops he requires for his own purposes; as for an attack,
he can defend himself.  If General Tilly wants money or provisions, let him go to Munich, where
there is plenty of both." The irruption of two bodies of imperial troops into Hesse Cassel
was the immediate result of this spirited reply, but the Landgrave gave them so warm a reception
that they could effect nothing; and just as Tilly was preparing to follow with his whole army,
to punish the unfortunate country for the firmness of its sovereign, the movements of the King
of Sweden recalled him to another quarter.

Gustavus Adolphus had learned the fall of Magdeburg with deep regret; and the demand now made
by the Elector, George William, in terms of their agreement, for the restoration of Spandau,
greatly increased this feeling.  The loss of Magdeburg had rather augmented than lessened the
reasons which made the possession of this fortress so desirable; and the nearer became the
necessity of a decisive battle between himself and Tilly, the more unwilling he felt to abandon
the only place which, in the event of a defeat, could ensure him a refuge.  After a vain endeavour,
by entreaties and representations, to bring over the Elector to his views, whose coldness and
lukewarmness daily increased, he gave orders to his general to evacuate Spandau, but at the
same time declared to the Elector that he would henceforth regard him as an enemy.

To give weight to this declaration, he appeared with his whole force before Berlin.  "I will
not be worse treated than the imperial generals," was his reply to the ambassadors whom the
bewildered Elector despatched to his camp.  "Your master has received them into his territories,
furnished them with all necessary supplies, ceded to them every place which they required,
and yet, by all these concessions, he could not prevail upon them to treat his subjects with
common humanity. All that I require of him is security, a moderate sum of money, and provisions
for my troops; in return, I promise to protect his country, and to keep the war at a distance
from him.  On these points, however, I must insist; and my brother, the Elector, must instantly
determine to have me as a friend, or to see his capital plundered."  This decisive tone produced
a due impression; and the cannon pointed against the town put an end to the doubts of George
William.  In a few days, a treaty was signed, by which the Elector engaged to furnish a monthly
subsidy of 30,000 dollars, to leave Spandau in the king's hands, and to open Custrin at all
times to the Swedish troops.  This now open alliance of the Elector of Brandenburg with the
Swedes, excited no less displeasure at Vienna, than did formerly the similar procedure of the
Duke of Pomerania; but the changed fortune which now attended his arms, obliged the Emperor
to confine his resentment to words.

The king's satisfaction, on this favourable event, was increased by the agreeable intelligence
that Griefswald, the only fortress which the Imperialists still held in Pomerania, had surrendered,
and that the whole country was now free of the enemy.  He appeared once more in this duchy,
and was gratified at the sight of the general joy which he had caused to the people.  A year
had elapsed since Gustavus first entered Germany, and this event was now celebrated by all
Pomerania as a national festival.  Shortly before, the Czar of Moscow had sent ambassadors
to congratulate him, to renew his alliance, and even to offer him troops.  He had great reason
to rejoice at the friendly disposition of Russia, as it was indispensable to his interests
that Sweden itself should remain undisturbed by any dangerous neighbour during the war in which
he himself was engaged.  Soon after, his queen, Maria Eleonora, landed in Pomerania, with a
reinforcement of 8000 Swedes; and the arrival of 6000 English, under the Marquis of Hamilton,
requires more particular notice because this is all that history mentions of the English during
the Thirty Years' War.

During Tilly's expedition into Thuringia, Pappenheim commanded in Magdeburg; but was unable
to prevent the Swedes from crossing the Elbe at various points, routing some imperial detachments,
and seizing several posts.  He himself, alarmed at the approach of the King of Sweden, anxiously
recalled Tilly, and prevailed upon him to return by rapid marches to Magdeburg.  Tilly encamped
on this side of the river at Wolmerstadt; Gustavus on the same side, near Werben, not far from
the confluence of the Havel and the Elbe.  His very arrival portended no good to Tilly.  The
Swedes routed three of his regiments, which were posted in villages at some distance from the
main body, carried off half their baggage, and burned the remainder.  Tilly in vain advanced
within cannon shot of the king's camp, and offered him battle.  Gustavus, weaker by one-half
than his adversary, prudently declined it; and his position was too strong for an attack. 
Nothing more ensued but a distant cannonade, and a few skirmishes, in which the Swedes had
invariably the advantage.  In his retreat to Wolmerstadt, Tilly's army was weakened by numerous
desertions.  Fortune seemed to have forsaken him since the carnage of Magdeburg.

The King of Sweden, on the contrary, was followed by uninterrupted success.  While he himself
was encamped in Werben, the whole of Mecklenburg, with the exception of a few towns, was conquered
by his General Tott and the Duke Adolphus Frederick; and he enjoyed the satisfaction of reinstating
both dukes in their dominions.  He proceeded in person to Gustrow, where the reinstatement
was solemnly to take place, to give additional dignity to the ceremony by his presence.  The
two dukes, with their deliverer between them, and attended by a splendid train of princes,
made a public entry into the city, which the joy of their subjects converted into an affecting
solemnity.  Soon after his return to Werben, the Landgrave of Hesse Cassel appeared in his
camp, to conclude an offensive and defensive alliance; the first sovereign prince in Germany,
who voluntarily and openly declared against the Emperor, though not wholly uninfluenced by
strong motives.  The Landgrave bound himself to act against the king's enemies as his own,
to open to him his towns and territory, and to furnish his army with provisions and necessaries.
The king, on the other hand, declared himself his ally and protector; and engaged to conclude
no peace with the Emperor without first obtaining for the Landgrave a full redress of grievances.
Both parties honourably performed their agreement.  Hesse Cassel adhered to the Swedish alliance
during the whole of this tedious war; and at the peace of Westphalia had no reason to regret
the friendship of Sweden.

Tilly, from whom this bold step on the part of the Landgrave was not long concealed, despatched
Count Fugger with several regiments against him; and at the same time endeavoured to excite
his subjects to rebellion by inflammatory letters.  But these made as little impression as
his troops, which subsequently failed him so decidedly at the battle of Breitenfield.  The
Estates of Hesse could not for a moment hesitate between their oppressor and their protector.

But the imperial general was far more disturbed by the equivocal conduct of the Elector of
Saxony, who, in defiance of the imperial prohibition, continued his preparations, and adhered
to the confederation of Leipzig. At this conjuncture, when the proximity of the King of Sweden
made a decisive battle ere long inevitable, it appeared extremely dangerous to leave Saxony
in arms, and ready in a moment to declare for the enemy. Tilly had just received a reinforcement
of 25,000 veteran troops under Furstenberg, and, confident in his strength, he hoped either
to disarm the Elector by the mere terror of his arrival, or at least to conquer him with little
difficulty.  Before quitting his camp at Wolmerstadt, he commanded the Elector, by a special
messenger, to open his territories to the imperial troops; either to disband his own, or to
join them to the imperial army; and to assist, in conjunction with himself, in driving the
King of Sweden out of Germany.  While he reminded him that, of all the German states, Saxony
had hitherto been most respected, he threatened it, in case of refusal, with the most destructive
ravages.

But Tilly had chosen an unfavourable moment for so imperious a requisition.  The ill-treatment
of his religious and political confederates, the destruction of Magdeburg, the excesses of
the Imperialists in Lusatia, all combined to incense the Elector against the Emperor.  The
approach, too, of Gustavus Adolphus, (however slender his claims were to the protection of
that prince,) tended to fortify his resolution.  He accordingly forbade the quartering of the
imperial soldiers in his territories, and announced his firm determination to persist in his
warlike preparations.  However surprised he should be, he added, "to see an imperial army on
its march against his territories, when that army had enough to do in watching the operations
of the King of Sweden, nevertheless he did not expect, instead of the promised and well merited
rewards, to be repaid with ingratitude and the ruin of his country."  To Tilly's deputies,
who were entertained in a princely style, he gave a still plainer answer on the occasion. 
"Gentlemen," said he, "I perceive that the Saxon confectionery, which has been so long kept
back, is at length to be set upon the table.  But as it is usual to mix with it nuts and garnish
of all kinds, take care of your teeth."

Tilly instantly broke up his camp, and, with the most frightful devastation, advanced upon
Halle; from this place he renewed his demands on the Elector, in a tone still more urgent and
threatening.  The previous policy of this prince, both from his own inclination, and the persuasions
of his corrupt ministers had been to promote the interests of the Emperor, even at the expense
of his own sacred obligations, and but very little tact had hitherto kept him inactive.  All
this but renders more astonishing the infatuation of the Emperor or his ministers in abandoning,
at so critical a moment, the policy they had hitherto adopted, and by extreme measures, incensing
a prince so easily led.  Was this the very object which Tilly had in view?  Was it his purpose
to convert an equivocal friend into an open enemy, and thus to relieve himself from the necessity
of that indulgence in the treatment of this prince, which the secret instructions of the Emperor
had hitherto imposed upon him? Or was it the Emperor's wish, by driving the Elector to open
hostilities, to get quit of his obligations to him, and so cleverly to break off at once the
difficulty of a reckoning?  In either case, we must be equally surprised at the daring presumption
of Tilly, who hesitated not, in presence of one formidable enemy, to provoke another; and at
his negligence in permitting, without opposition, the union of the two.

The Saxon Elector, rendered desperate by the entrance of Tilly into his territories, threw
himself, though not without a violent struggle, under the protection of Sweden.

