 

I started running like crazy, at night, taking a rag from the heart of Magdalena manojillo of flowers
that had her lips and printed as I savored bites like kisses. Walking at random, drunk with joy, repeating
a phrase that dazzled me as the light of a rising sun. I was not concerned nor the time or the
streets. After having lost ten times in the neighborhood of Paris who knew better got to the docks.
I found them to anyone.


When the downfall of Tryggvi had been accomplished, Astrid fled away bearing with her what
chattels she might. And with her went her foster-father Thorolf Louse-Beard, who never left
her, whereas other trusty men, loyal to her, fared hither and thither to gather tidings of
her foes or to spy out where they might lurk. Now Astrid being great with child of King Tryggvi
caused herself to be transported to an islet on a lake & there took shelter with but few of
her company. His hand is very white and very thin skin, was purified and sharpened, so to speak, dedicated
to work handling the pen. Seeing no one could demeanor say whether he was rich or poor. He wore
very simple clothes and took them modestly, but confidence and relief that comes from the belief
that the suit does not matter.

Oliver welcomed, rather than as a friend, as a young man who needs
to be monitored and for which it should wait before putting squarely
in the closest intimacy.

For his part, Oliver was not only very average, either because the
man's jacket It seemed shocking, either because they warned him inside,
the resistance of a will temperate as well as his own, but formed
of the purest metal.

- I had guessed his friend from you - I said
Augustine, - in the physical and moral.

It is seductive. Do not tell me to do any trickery, because it seems incapable of unworthiness,
but victims, in the highest sense of the word, the will. It is dangerous to humans weaker that
he and people born under the same star.

When Oliver asked his opinion about Augustine, he merely replied:

- There will always be in it of the preceptor and some upstart. Never stop being pedantic labored,
as everyone who does not have more resources that will come and go
the workforce.

I prefer the gifts of talent or cot, and not being that does not want anything.

Later, those two opinions were changed. Augustine came to love Oliver, but without estimating much,
and Oliver had to Augustine in high regard without actually take care.

Our life was regulated very soon. We occupied two adjoining apartments, but independent. Our
very close friendship and independence of each should be fully reconciled
in that order of things.

Our manners were those of students who hobbies Free or positions let you choose, a little instruction,
random, and drink in many sources before to determine which of them
should submit their real spirit in the final.

A few days later, Oliver received a letter from his cousin, in which we were invited to two to move
to Nièvre.

It was an older home loss of dense forests of chestnut and oak. I spent a week of beautiful days
and severe cold in the middle of the mountain, almost stripped of leaves, looking horizons,
if I forget those Trembles did not let me miss them, so beautiful they were, and seemed intended
as a great box, to contain a life more robust and more serious struggles.

The Castle - whose towering turrets very little about the old oak trees that surrounded him,
and it was only visible by cuts made through the forest, with its old gray facade, their tall chimneys
crowned with smoke, their greenhouses closed avenues carpet of leaves dead, - summed up in
a few details of his appearance, sad character and station melancholy
places.

Was it a new existence for Magdalena, and for me there was something very new the fact of seeing
so abruptly placed on a more vast, with the freedom of attitudes, amplitude of manners, that
indefinable something very imposing higher and providing the use and the responsibilities of
owning a large fortune.

One person seemed to miss the castle still Nièvre Street Carmelite:
the Mr. D'Orsel.

As for me, places I care nothing. A very attractive blended in that time, my present and past,
between Magdalena and Countess of Nièvre there was nothing difference between an impossible love and
a guilty love, and when I left Nièvre, was convinced that the love born in the Rue des Carmelites,
what would happen, there was to be buried.

Delayed the installation of the home that Mr. Nièvre had proposed
to establish Paris, Magdalena came in the winter.

He felt happy surrounded by all his family, had Julia and her father was a need of time to pass without
shaking of modesty and regularity of provincial life to the surprises that awaited him in
the great world, and that was Nièvre semisoledad sort of novitiate which was far from displeasing.

I
saw her once or twice that summer, with long intervals and for brief moments, cowardly stolen
from the duty imposed on me to escape it.

Had entertained the purpose of making this withdrawal, frankly, very appropriate to try be
heroic and to heal. It was much to resist invitations to constantly Nièvre reached us. I even
more: I tried not to think about it. I immersed myself in work. Augustine's example has made
my naturally emulation if he had not liked it. Paris develops the peculiar environment of the great
centers of activity in everything in the order of intellectual activities, and I mix in some
motion of the facts, it was logical that refuse to live in that atmosphere.

As for life in Paris, as Oliver understood, I had no illusions and not considered as a relief.
A little had to distract her, but by no means to stun and even less
comfort.

On the other hand, the peasant persisted in me and not could be resolved to divest himself
because he had changed his middle. Bad that despite the who seek to deny the influence of terroir,
I felt I was in my local to be somewhat resistant, not ever completely leave, and if the desire
had been expressed acclimated in me, I am sure that the thousand links of origins - that it
is impossible to uproot, - I have warned continued through suffering that my task would be useless.
Lived in Paris and in a hostel: it was possible to remain long in it, and even that she died,
but I always host and would be considered in passing.

Somber, withdrawn, sociable with peers only usual, constant mistrust new contacts, as was possible
avoided this terrible friction of Parisian life buffing characters and flattened, to consume
them.

I was not too blind to what She is the stunning, I do not disturb the offering contradictory,
not seduced me thus providing the appetites of youth and the ambitions of the gullible. To
get under cover of his wiles I had a defect that amounted, in its effect, a virtue, and was
the fear of the unknown, and that incorrigible terror trials lent me by say so, the insights
they have experienced.

Were you alone or little less, because Augustine did not belong and from the first moment I realized
that what Oliver was not the man for a long time to belong. Then acquired all contrary habits
in my habits, but no resemblance to them.

Registered libraries, shivering in the harsh arenas and put me at night in the reading rooms
where those facing starvation, Painted fever on their faces, they wrote books that were not
to give them fame and enrich them. Guessed in their powerlessness, physical and moral misery
whose neighborliness certainly comforted me. Out of those places afflicted. I locked myself
in my house, opened other books and watched.

So I felt it move under my window the night of Carnival festivities. Sometimes, at night, Oliver
knocking on my door. I immediately recognized the fist thump of his cane gold. I was sitting
at my desk, shook my hand and won its fourth humming a piece of opera. The next day began again
without ostentation, naively convinced it was excellent that austere way of life.

After a few months and could not go. My efforts were exhausted and as a building raised by a
miracle, one morning, on waking, I felt that my value was collapsing.

Pretended remember an idea pursued the day before: impossible! In vain I repeated certain phrases
discipline that stung me once, and are encouraged to draft horses that plant.

It was now summer. In the streets a beautiful sun shining. Swifts flying satisfied around a sharp
bell tower from my window was distinguished. Without a moment's hesitation and without thinking
I would lose the benefit at a time when so many months of prudence,
Magdalena wrote.

What he said was negligible. The brief notes that she received on several occasions, had determined,
once and for all, the tone of our correspondence.

I did not put in one more or less, however, issued the letter, I waited for the response as
an event.

Paris is in fact a large garden for the bored: They are found in it relative solitude, trees, green
grass, blooming flower trays, dark alleys and a mob of birds that appear to be there as her
pleasure in the countryside.

In that garden he was and I missed all the rest day, amazed to have shaken my yoke and most admired
of the extreme intensity still a memory that had believed in good faith that he was asleep.
Slowly, like a bonfire that is revived, I felt my whole being that burning awakening.

Walked under the trees, speaking only involuntary gestures and making themselves a long chained
man breaking the chains:

- What! - Thought .-- And do not even have to know that I loved? Has to ignore that because
her have spent my life, sacrificed everything, even such innocent, to make him see what I have made
for your rest? Does he think that I spent with her without seeing her, that our stock have run
parallel without confusion or even touched, neither more nor less than two indifferent streams? And
the day you say "you know, Madeleine, that I loved so much"? I reply:
Is it possible?

... And no longer in the age that he might believe.

Then I realized that, indeed, our destinies were parallel, very close, but unmistakable; it was
necessary to live alongside each other, separated, and that everything was completed by me. Then
I lost in hypotheses emanating from them a repeated "Who knows?"

With all scope of a temptation. And that my conscience conditional replied: "No, that will never
be!"

But those foolish assumptions I had a horrible taste sweet and it
was weak drunk that I still will, also thought that it was not worth
having fought hard to reach such a point.

Noticed in me a lack of energy and so deeply felt contempt for myself, that this desperate days
of my life. It did not seem good for nothing, not even to apply to work more vulgar. Nobody
wanted me because I did not care nothing of it. Some children went to play under the trees.
Blissful couples became closely linked, prevented his approach and I went, like, in my mind, what
place where there was not alone.

Returned to the streets deserted. In them were large walled industrial workshops and noisy
factories whose chimneys smoked, boiled boiler was heard, the sound
of gears.

I thought about the tension that I consumed many months, always at
the home interior on, always waiting for an application that burning
was not provided.

Blacks looked glass, saw the reflection of the furnace, heard the
noise of the machines.

- What will you do there? - I said .-- Who
knows what will come out of these workshops, wood or metal how big
or small, useful or superfluous?

And the idea that going on in my mind as anything added to my dismay
and complete, not did more than confirm.

On my desk there was a mountain of reams of paper written.

Never looked pride usually avoided look at her closely, and so he
spent every day of the illusions Eve.

From the following I made my decision supreme justice: random read multiple fragments, a strong
flavor of mediocrity turned my heart. I grabbed all papers and threw into the fire. He was
very quiet while running that work in any other circumstances would
have cost me some grief.

At that moment came Magdalena's letter.

Was as it should be warm, tender, delicate and yet I was hope to see fade away stunned. The
twinkle of many old papers still burning lit my room, I stood with the letter in hand, like
a drowning man and clinging to a broken string, by chance came Oliver.

Seeing that pile of smoldering ashes and saw a quick glance at the letter.

- Are you good at Nièvre? - I asked coldly.

In anticipation of the slightest suspicion handed him the letter, he affected not as if he had
read and decided it was time to talk to one reason and one broadly debride sore that languished
without result, he began:

- But to what end has arrived? Six months ago you spend the night
writing and consumiéndote, wearing a life of a seminarian who already
made their vows or taking baths Benedictine science to calm the meat.
And where did you come all this?

- Nowhere - I replied.

- Too bad,
because all test disappointment, at least, one thing has been wrong
about the means to succeed. You believe that loneliness is the best
of directors. And now do you think? What advice has given you, what
view that fits, what a lesson in behavior?

- Be silent forever! -
Said in a tone of despair.

- If that's your final decision, I invite
you to change the system. If all you expect from yourself, if you
have enough pride to believe that completing a situation has discouraged
many strong and you can stay without tambalearte, standing on appalling
difficulty, to which many hearts have fainted, too bad, I repeat again,
because I believe in serious danger, and I swear that no longer sleep
alone.

- I have no pride or confidence, as well as I know. I'm not
the one who wants: it is as you say, the situation that is imposed
on me. Not in my power to prevent what is, I can not what should be
expected. I stay where I am, on a danger, because I am forbidden go
elsewhere. Magdalena not love, I can not, love it otherwise I can
not. The day of this difficulty, which I can not go down, beats me
vertigo ... I cry like a dead man.

- Dead not fallen very far. It
does not matter, anyway, the fact is funereal. And it does not as
I understand that you must finish. All unworthy is it to take up great issues and afterwards
to lay them down again with dishonour.' Then did Gold Harald answer: 'To such purpose will
I take up this claim, that I will not even spare these my own hands from slaying the King himself
if occasion serve, should he refuse me this kingdom which is mine by right.' And therewith
ended they their commune. After this came King Harald to Hakon, and they fell to talking together
& the King told the Earl of Gold Harald's claim to the kingdom, and with what answer he had
rebuked him, declaring that he would by no means diminish his own kingdom, 'but if Gold Harald
hold fast to this his claim; then see I nothing for it save that I should put him to the death
for in him have I but little faith if he will not surrender this desire.' The Earl made answer:
'Methinks Harald hath set out on this matter with such earnestness that he is not like to set
it aside; and that if it should come to a rising in the land, there would be many that would
flock unto his standard and the main of them because of the love they had borne to his father. If some
reason there was still obscured, out of reach of a friendship that - apart from a immense secret,
had none - was because Magdalena considered useless explanation or reckless. There was a sore
point between us, sometimes in doubt and others in full certainty that, like all dangerous truths,
required no clarification.

Magdalena was warned: it was impossible not to be. But since when? Perhaps from the day, breathing
an air she stirred, he felt that hot flashes were not at the temperature of our old friendship
and peaceful. The day I seemed to have the certainty of this fact, not mere belief was enough.
I wanted a test and wanted to force give me a Magdalena. I paused for a moment to reflect on that
plan that was obnoxious Evil, hateful. The besieged with thousands of leading questions. In the
case of people that we knew very thoroughly enough to understand us only half a word, but I even
added one more precise. We walked on a field littered with tricks and one more I tended to every
step. I do not know what perverse desire to besiege, oppress, to corner in the last reserve.
He wanted revenge of that first long silence imposed by shyness, then by considering more
and ultimately out of respect for mercy. That mask he wore was already three years I had become
unbearable and without hesitation pulled. I did not care that did the light between the two.
Almost wished she had a blast but to panic; As for your peace of mind, a blind and fatal indiscretion
could destroy, I had forgotten completely.

Was it a humiliating crisis, which cost me a lot of work refer you. Just suffered, so was imbued
with a fixed idea. It came in a direct sense, with the intelligence clear, closed awareness, as if it
were a fencing assault which had not more risky than love itself.

In my foolish strategy Magdalena suddenly opposed unexpected defenses. Answered to her with perfect
calm, with total lack of pretense, with nothing that could be naive damage their reputation. Gradually
rose between the two in the manner of a steel wall, a resistance, an impenetrable coldness.
I was annoyed at this new obstacle and could not overcome. I tried again to make me understand:
all intelligence had ceased. Sharpened the sentences and did not reach it. I took the rose,
the disarmed with a response unanswered, as had been done with deftly dodged an arrow to which he removed
the steely iron could hurt. The summary of his continent, his host, his loving handshakes,
your looks great, but civil and not available, total their actions admirable and exasperating,
by his firmness, by his simplicity, his wisdom, was this: "I know nothing, and if I thought
you guessed something was wrong."

Then I disappeared for a time, ashamed of myself, furious impotence when he returned to it with
better ideas and intentions of repentance, he seemed not to understand like the others had not noticed.

All
this happened in the turmoil of the great world that year lasted
until very entry and spring.

Sometimes accidents had that kind of debilitating life to surprise at fault Magdalena and take
control of a spirit so sure of himself, but that did not happen: I was almost sick with impatience. Was
no longer certain, almost, to love Magdalena, to this end the idea of ​​our antagonism - which
forced me to see it as an adversary, - substituting to any other emotion and filled my heart
of evil passions. There are days in summer, dusty nebulous, where sunlight is white and cloudy evening on the side
of the North, closely resemble that violent burning period as soon as ice cream, which I to believe that
my passion for Magdalena going to die in the most sad, for the rebound.

A few weeks ago and not seen. I had spent my rancor engulfed in work.
Expected her to give me the signal to reappear.

Once he had found Mr. De Nièvre and told me: "What is yours?" Or "no longer sees you." Any such
two formulas - can not remember what it was used - was surrounded by an urgent invitation
to return. Even I held a few days, but such removal was a negative vein I could go on indefinitely
without resolving anything critical. I finally decided to force the issue. I ran home from Magdalena:
I was alone. I went quickly without having formed a definite idea of what was going to say or do,
but formally decided to break that ice armor and see if she still lived below the heart of my old friend.

The
cabinet met in particular - where there was more luxury than flowers, - dressed Very simply,
embroidering sitting near a veladorcito. Was serious, his eyes were red as if he had not slept
the night before or had been crying a few minutes before reaching me.

He looked peaceful seclusion that was itself often in moments distraction that it revived the
schoolgirl of the past. With her modest dress, surrounded by flowers, open windows on the trees, would
have said he was in his Ormesson garden.

That complete transfiguration, that attitude of sadness, submissive, half expired, say well,
I took all desire to succeed and gave ground suddenly with all my courage.

- I've fallen in guilt, for you - I said - and I come to apologize.

- Guilty?

What excuse? - Exclaimed, trying to recover from the surprise.

- Yes, I'm mad, cruel and lonely friend comes to get to their feet and beg forgiveness ...

-
But what I have to forgive? - Added a little frightened by that warm
invasion in the quiet of his retirement.

- My past conduct, everything
I've done everything I've said, with the intention stupid to hurt you.

She had regained her calm.

- Can you imagine things that do not exist or at least it is minor errors which I remember no more
the day you recognize that you also forget. Do you know what has been His only mistake? Of abandoning
the past month.

For about a month now - he said, not hiding which looked at the dates - we missed a night telling
you until tomorrow to say goodbye.

- And I have not, it's true,
but that is not what I acknowledge with regret, not what I accused
fatally ...

- You're welcome! - She interrupted imperiously .-- And
since then - went away, - what has become of you?

What have you done?

- Many things and very little depends on the outcome.

- What next?

-
That's it - I wanted to do the same to her and cut the conversation
where I desirable.

They spent a few moments of awkward silence and then Magdalena began
to speak in a tone quite natural and very sweet.

- Do you have a
thankless and difficult character - he said .-- It is hard to understand
you and further help him.

When you want to encourage, sustain, sometimes pity, you are asked and you are locked in the
strictest confidence.

- What do you say, unless it be that one in whom you trust, is not capable of causing surprise to
anyone and I fear that disappoint the hopes of his good friends?

-
Why disappoint the hopes of good friends who just wish for you a position
it deserves? - Magdalena went quiet and, seeing that we stood in a
field it seemed much safer.

- Well, for one simple reason: because
nothing covet.

- And the ardor for the work that grips to the best
of you ...

- Dura very little, is a fire that flares up extremely
quickly and then dies.

Subsist, I think, some years yet, until the illusion vanishes when youth go and see I clear
it is up to get it over with such scams.

Then take the one life I block, dilletantismo nice life, in some corner of the province to
which no I come neither stimulating nor remorse in Paris, devoting himself to admire the talent
others, that should suffice, after all, for, to occupy the leisure
of a modest man who does not is silly.

- What you just said is unsustainable
- he exclaimed with great vivacity .-- Do you like in tormenting those
who believe ... and lies you ...

- Nothing is more certain, I swear.

Like I said before, not long ago that I was attracted, not by the
idea of ​​being someone who seemed no practical sense, but together
by the desire to produce something, the only excuse, in my view, our
miserable existence.

I said and tried to do it.

But never with a view to take advantage of it and my dignity man, neither my taste nor my vanity, or
others or myself. Be no purpose the expelling of my brain something that bothers me.

Smiled at the curious and commonplace explanation I gave a noble enough phenomenon.

- What man is so unique you with your paradoxes! The subtlety you all to end to change the meaning
of words and the value of ideas.

Halagábame belief of a soul you were better organized than many other and more good, on several
counts. He also believed, weak-willed, but endowed with a tendency
for inspiration.

And now is that should you lack the will and becomes the inspiration in simple exorcism.

- You call things by the name you want - I said, and begged that we change the subject.

Change of discussion was not possible, had to return to the starting point or continue. Le seemed
safer and I think that I left without answering more than one sentence:
"Why?"

- Speaking on this occasion, as Oliver, and yet no one seems
to him less you.

- Do you agree? - I passionately looking to dominate
again - do you really do you think we so different?

Well, I think, by contrast, seem to us a lot.

Obey the one and the other, only blindly what we love, what we love is, both for him and for
me, impossible or nearly so, do, is a chimera, or represents forbidden. This makes following
along very opposite, we find a day in the same point, cowed and "no family" - I added, using the
phrase "without family" instead of a much clearer that came to my lips.

Magdalena's eyes were fixed on the embroidery, but nailed the needle
at random, without paying attention.

The expression on his face had changed, the continent once again, subdued and disarmed me softened
to the point of making me forget the object of my visit.

- You would understand it - he said with some embarrassment .-- There
is something for everyone, believe me ... (Hesitating some choice
of words) a difficult time in which self-doubt and even of others.

What matters then is to clarify the question and make a decision. Sometimes the heart needs
to say "I want to." At least I suppose what happened to me and once - continued, even more hesitant
about a memory that we both brought to mind the story of his marriage .-- They say a turn of the
century marquise sought that by force of will could avoid death. Perhaps if he died was because
he was distracted. There are so many accidents that are presumed to be involuntary, who knows
if that is not depends largely on the desire to be happy! ...

- God will hear, my dear Magdalena - said, using an expression that was not reused Three years ago.

Uttering
these last words I got arrested a tenderness that owned to hide. The movement I made was so
fast, so unexpected, so passionately said to me accent, in itself
very decisive and that Magdalena felt he reached his heart and moved
him and pale.

I heard in the depths of his chest as an anguished cry that painful expired on his lips.

Often had I wondered what would happen if, for getting rid of the load too heavy crushing me, just
as if my friend could hear indulgently Magdalena the declaration of a feeling he was referring
to the Countess of Nièvre, told her he loved her. I pictured the scene of this very serious
explanation. The supposed alone in listening state and in a situation that precluded any danger.
Spoke and without preamble, frankly, no subterfuge, no talk, and with the same frankness that
if it were a confident very close from my youth, I refer the story of my passion, born of
a friendship child suddenly changed into love.

The explained how a series of transitions invincible I had driven slowly from indifference to
attraction, the fear of bondage, of nostalgia in the absence of the
need to never separate from it, the vision I was going to lose the
certainty that he adored her, the desire for peace of mind to lie
In short, the silence will always irresistible urge to confess everything
and to ask forgiveness later.

He said she had resisted, fought, who had suffered greatly: my ways was the best witness. Not exaggerating
anything, quite the contrary, did nothing but show half the picture of my pains to convince
her best put my words as and was sincere. He said, in a word, he loved her desperately, in other
words it did not expect more than the acquittal of my weaknesses that they themselves had penance
and piety for those evils irremediable.

So great was my confidence in the goodness of Magdalena, the idea of ​​such a confession me seemed
more natural in the midst of the crazy ideas or guilty that beset me.

One appeared then - or at least I liked her, - truly sad and sorrowful, but not angry, listening
to the pity of a friend powerless to comfort and elevation of spirit and forbearance, ready
to sympathize with those great evils indeed hopeless. And, strange to say! the thought of
being understood, always real terror I had set before, I did not cause even the slightest pregnancy
the present. Work would cost me explain to you how it was possible that such purpose, absurd
bold, fit in my mind as I have put natural timidity to you in evidence, but many tests were over
by seasoned. No longer trembled before Magdalena, least scary as in other times, I seemed to be
disappearing all irresolution since blatantly going after the truth.

I had a moment of supreme anguish during which the idea of ​​ending once and attacked me again,
as strong and irresistible temptation than ever. I thought that this had been and better opportunity
ever presented to me. We were alone, the chance will be placed exactly in the position he was
elected. Half of the confession was already done.

One and again we reached a level of emotion that put us in fitness a lot like me dare and hear
all of it. I did not say one word, to break that awful bolt I strangled
silence every time he thought of it.

Sought only a formula, opening sentence: I was very calm, at least so it seemed to be, until
it seemed that my face did not reflect too the extraordinary controversy that remained within
me. Going to talk time, to give me more courage, I raised my eyes and looked at Magdalena.
 This was at Thinganes,
where Sogn and Hordaland meet. King Ragnfrod fled from his ships, and of his folk there fell
three hundred men. Thus it is said in the Vellekla:

  'Fierce was the strife before three hundred were pressed
  Beneath the claws of the carrion bird
  By the host of the warrior chief:
  O'er the heads of the sea-dwellers,
  Thence could the conquering chief stride--
  Aye, and the deed was glorious.'

¶ After this battle did King Ragnfrod hie him away from Norway and Earl Hakon brought peace
to the land; he gave licence that the great host which had been with him in the summer should
fare back northward, but he himself abode hard by there where he gained the victory, not whiles
only that autumn but also throughout the winter that came after. The day had come above
and in the town had no more knowledge than the doctor ***, resident there so only from a few
years earlier. At the point of leaving the village we came another hunter on a slope planted
with vines that limits the horizon of Villanueva in the east. Walking rather slowly as he walks,
accompanied by two beautiful dogs shows, one Epagneul wool fawn and one black hair braque traveled
around the vineyard of his master. Ordinarily - as I learned then - were the only fellow who admitted
when expeditions carried out almost daily, in which the game was merely a pretext for enjoy
other pleasures: the outdoor living and especially to meet the need of being alone.

- Behold the Lord Sunday that game - said the doctor, recognizing
the distance to its neighbor.

Soon a gunshot rang out and the doctor told me:

- Mr. Domingo has
pulled.

The hunter that Villanueva described in similar developments around
us, given by the wind blowing from the east and the wants, quite secure
and known hunting.

Throughout the day we had him in sight, and though separated by several hundred meters, we
could follow the same path that he could follow him as ours. Field was flat, calm environment,
and the noise reached so far in this season year, even after having lost sight, we kept hearing
each firing of shotgun and even the echo of your voice when setting their dogs or name. But outside
of discretion or because, as demonstrated by a statement from the doctor, was giving little
fan your company, that fellow who called Mr. Domingo not approached us to very Late in the afternoon,
and the cordial friendship that then we should have joined that day
basis in fact the commonest.

Between us only half a shotgun when my dog ​​moved a partridge.

He was my left and the piece flew toward him.

- There you go, sir - I cried.

In the brief time it took to throw the gun at his face I could see that we looked at assess
whether the doctor and I were close enough to shoot, and only after
convincing piece was lost if he did not throw aimed and fired.

The bird fell as if struck and bounced with a thud on the dry earth of the vineyard.

It was a magnificent male partridge, brightly colored and hard as red beak and coral legs, armed with
spurs like a cock, almost as wide as the breast of a chicken priming.

-
Knight - Mr. Domingo said advancing towards us - excuse for having
lying on the sample of your dog.

But I thought you have to replace not to lose a beautiful piece, rare in this area. Rightfully.
I would not, therefore, offers: it back.

Added some phrases to force me and I accepted the gift of Mr. Domingo as debt willing to pay
for gallantry.

He was still young man in appearance, although he had already served forty years, enough high,
dark complexion, physiognomy pleasant, serious word and walk slowly,
with some sloppiness, and around certain severity elegant appearance.

She wore her blouse and wore leggings style peasant hunters. Its rich shotgun, only to reveal to people
accommodated. The two wide collars and dog had them each a sheet of silver with a monogram. Shook the
doctor's hand politely and left us almost immediately to go, he said, to meet with harvesters
that afternoon it finished the task of collection.

It was early October. The harvest was near an end, nothing was already in the field - again
in part to its silence - more than two or three groups of pickers
- who called brigades in the country - and a mast with a party flag,
planted in the vineyard which reflected itself in the past clusters,
announcing, in effect, that the brigade of Mr. Domingo was about merrily
eat the goose, that is, to carry out the closing luncheon and farewell,
in which, for celebrate the end of the tasks, is a traditional custom
amongst other things contained in roast goose first.

It was late afternoon. Only a few minutes left before the sun reached the horizon; launched its
splendor, drawing lines and shadow light dilated on the plain sad dotted with vineyards and
wetlands, with no trees, just rolling, pushing away in distance by a distance over the sea. One
or two people white, with its churches roof and steeples Saxons stood out minor bumps in the
ground and some farms, small, isolated, surrounded by stunted groves and huge stacks of hay
encouraged just one monotonous landscape which would have seemed quaint complete destitution without
the unique beauty that lent the weather, time and season. Only the Villanueva opposite and in
a fold of the plain had some form numerous trees to how small park around a dwelling of a certain appearance.
The converted flamenco style, tall, narrow windows dotted with rare irregular and lined Acute
towers with slate roof. Around the house were grouped other modern construction, local farmhouse
and various farm-all very modest. A faint bluish cloud of fog that stretched back through the
tops of trees indicated that there were exceptionally low background at the level of something
akin to a stream water, a long avenue, sort of swampy meadow surrounded by willows stretched from
the house to the sea.

- That house - told me the doctor stating that island of green amid the barren nakedness of the vineyards
- is Trembles Castle, home of Mr. Domingo.

Meanwhile, Mr. Domingo was to meet with harvesters and walk away slowly, unloaded shotgun,
followed by the dog tired, but no sooner had taken some steps the
path that led to their vineyards, we witnessed a game that I loved.

Two children whose voices came to us and a young woman which only saw the dress of light material and
a red mantle advanced towards the hunter. The children were funny signs revealing their joy, running
as fast as its little legs permitting: the mother was moving more slowly and with a shaking hand
corner of her purple mantle. We saw Mr. Domingo to take in his arms on the two children. He encouraged
group of bright colors stood there a moment in the green trail, standing in the middle the quiet
countryside illuminated by the evening fire, and wrapped the entire placidity the day just.
Then the family started for Trembles and posthumous setting sun was
escorted to his home to happy marriage.

I told the doctor that Mr. Domingo de Bray - whom everyone called Mr. Domingo to dry under a
friendly practice adopted by the familiarity of the country - was a Knight, mayor of the commune,
rather than by his personal influence - for not exercising and from a few years - estimated by
the former was linked to its name: it was decided protector of the
unfortunate, much loved and well regarded around the world, although
he had no administered more similarities with the blouse when wearing.

-
It's a nice man - said the doctor, - a bit sullen, excellent, simple
and discreet, prodigal services and very few words.

All I can tell you is that I know so many Those responsible for it as people in the community.

The night following that day of camp was so beautiful and so wonderfully
clear that not appear if we were still in summer.

I remember especially because I keep it certain impressions of those that are set at all sensitive
points in memory However lack of gravity the facts that motivate them. The moon was a brilliant
moon and the chalky path of Villanueva and the white houses were lit as if it were full noon,
with hints of sweeter but with equal precision. The main street that crosses the line village
was deserted. As they passed the gates just heard the buzz of conversation neighbors who were
dining with family and behind closed windows. Away in distance, where the residents did not
sleep, and a narrow beam of light filtered through the locks or out of the chocks and flickered like a red
line through the cold whiteness of the night. Only wineries were open for ventilation, and an end to
the other village smell to crushed grapes, warm exhalation of mixed fermented wine to smell of
stables and houses. In the field no longer perceive any noise other than the cry of the rooster
to sleep and woke up singing the first night by announcing that it would be wet. Thrush - Birds
in passing that migrated from north to south - through the air above the village and called constantly
as night commuters. Between eight and nine a kind of joyful sound vibrated at the bottom of the
plain bark at a time making all dogs from neighboring farms: was sour and are cadenced of the bagpipes
playing a quadrille.

- You dance at Mr. Domingo - the doctor told me .-- Good opportunity for a visit, if you would think,
since he owes you thanks.

When dancing to the sound of biniou [A] home of an owner who makes the vintage, you must know that
the party has almost public.

[A: A sort of bagpipe]

Trembles take the path through the vineyards,
gently moved by the influence magnificent that night.

The doctor, who felt the way that emotion, he began to look the rare
stars that live moonlight was not enough to eclipse and lost astronomical
treatises, the only dream that such a spirit could afford.

The dance was organized in front of the farm gate on a Mall in form in was surrounded by tall
trees and grassy wet as if rain. The moon lit the makeshift dance
so well that no other lights were needed.

There was nothing dancers who employed laborers in the harvest and one or two local young
people to who had caught the sound of the bagpipes. I would not know that if the musician
who played biniou doeth with art, but at least played with such vigor, pulled the instrument
sounds so widely extended, so penetrating and tearing the air with such acrimony sound and
becalmed at night, not because I was amazed that we had reached such a noise from so far away:
within half mile radius to be heard, and the girls were flat, undoubtedly contradanzas dream in their
beds. Young people had removed their tops; the girls had changed their remangádose caps and aprons,
all retained positions clogs - the bots that they say - no doubt to afford more poise and better
mark beat of the leaps of pantomime called bourrée crude. Meanwhile, in the yard passed and repassed
the farm servants, with a light hand, from kitchen to dining room and when the music stopped playing
for breath, heard the rustle of press squeezed the grapes.

We found Mr. Domingo next to the winery, in this strange lab full of wheels movement. Two or
three scattered lamps illuminated the extensive local as much as needed nothing but the wide
space occupied by bulky machines. At the time was cutting the treuillée: that is, the grapes
are piled up and squeezed and stretched as can be drawn from it by
further pressure machine that still contained the juice.

The wort weak jet noise source was driven with little in stone vessels, and a long leather
tube, like a fire hose, I took the battery and led him to the bottom Winery where the sweet taste
of crushed grapes became wine smell in whose proximity was very hot. All new wine dripping:
the walls sweated harvest moisture, fumes were heavy fog around lights. Mr. Domingo was among
the laborers engaged in the task of pressing and holding a lamp lit Hand in whose light we find
him in that gloom. Kept his hunting dress no one would have distinguished the workers if they
do not call him "sir Nostromo."

- Do not apologize you - he told the doctor that called excuse for the time and the time chosen for
our visit - because otherwise I would have every reason to apologize to my time.

And I think well - so ease and finesse so we did the honors of the press, - which had no more
hassle than the difficulty of procuring a comfortable seat on that site.

I say nothing of our conversation - the first I had with a man with
whom I have spoken Only much later .-- I remember having discussed
harvest, harvest, hunting and other matters in the field, the name
of Paris suddenly emerged as inevitable antithesis All and all the
rustic simplicities of life.

- Ah, those were good times! - Said
the doctor, in whom the name of Paris awoke always a shock.

- Still
longing! - Said Mr. Domingo.

And he said this phrase with a particular emphasis - more expressive than words, whose real meaning
he wanted to penetrate.

We left when the harvesters went to dinner.

It was late and we just return to Villanueva. Mr. Domingo He led us down an avenue that surrounded
the garden, whose boundaries are confused vaguely trees in the park,
and then by a broad terrace covering the whole front of the house.

Passing a lighted room, whose window was open the warm atmosphere
of the night, I saw the young wife sat embroidering about two twin
beds.

We parted at the gate. The full moon lit up the courtyard where movement did not reach the farm. The
dogs were tired after a day of hunting with chain around his neck,
slept in front of their respective niches, lying full length on sand.

In groups of lilacs removíanse the birds as if the splendid clarity I do believe the night was light.
Nothing was heard of the dance interrupted by dinner Trembles in the house and surroundings,
all rested and in the greatest silence, and this relieved absolute absence of noise accompanying
print at biniou.

A few days later, upon returning home found two cards from Mr. Bray, who had come to visit,
and the next we received an invitation on behalf of Madame de Bray, but written by her husband,
it was a family meal offered to the neighbors, which is begging to be accepted graciously.

This new interview - the first is true, which gave me entry into the castle of Trembles - not
offered nothing memorable, and she would not talk, unless it fulfills me say two words with
respect to the family of Mr. Domingo.

It consisted of three people whose silhouettes fugitive had already seen from afar in the middle
of the vineyards: a brunette girl called Mercy, a child blond, thin, growing too fast and already
promised to bring the feudal middle name and peasant Juan de Bray, with more distinction than
force.

As the mother was a wife and mother in the highest sense of the two words: no midwife, no young girl, a
few years, but with maturity and dignity that optimally supported well understood in the sense
its dual role, beautiful eyes in a face uncertain; lots of sweetness in his expression mixed with
some grim, perhaps due to the constant isolation, size and gentle ways elegant.

That year, our relations were not far away: one or two hunting parties to which I invited Mr de
Bray, received and returned a few visits they made me a better understanding the ways of the castle,
but I opened the avenues discreet friendship. Come November, left, then, Villanueva without having
penetrated the intimacy of the "happy marriage" so we decided to designate the doctor and
me to the happy Castilian Trembles.

II

The absence causes unique effects. I checked for that first year restraining Mr. Bray broke
me without the slightest reason to live seems to evoke a remembrance other.

The absence unites and disengaged, both on and away, remembering and
forgetting it, relaxes certain very strong links, sometimes stretched
to the breaking: there is indestructible recognized partnerships in
which causes irreparable damage: indifference accumulates promises
worlds of eternal remembrance.

And at the same time, an imperceptible germ, a link unnoticed a "good-bye, sir," I should not
have any scope up with a trifle, knitting I do not know how, one of those frames so vigorous about
which two male friendships can survive very well throughout the rest
of your life, because such bonds are everlasting life.

The chains formed in this way, unbeknownst to us, with the pure substance and more lively
of our feelings, that mysterious are working as an intangible ray of light going from one to another
without being disturbed or diverted the distance or time: the fortified time and distance can
extend them indefinitely without breaking. The nostalgia is not in such cases the movement a little
rude of those invisible threads knotted in the depths of the heart and soul, which makes them suffer
extreme stress. Passes year: the separation was without saying "au revoir": An unexpected reunion:
and friendship during that time has made us such progress that all barriers have fallen, all precautions
have disappeared. This long interval of twelve months, much living space and neglect, has not
had a single day useless: and the twelve months of silence have identified a need mutual confidence
with the right to rely even more surprising.

A year ago he had gone right for the first time when I came back to him Villanueva attracted a
doctor's letter, in which I said: "In the neighborhood are talking about you and fall is superb,
you come from. "I arrived without making me wait, and when a night of harvest, after warm a day
of glorious sunshine, amid the same old sounds, walked through, without warning, Trembles thresholds,
saw the union of which I spoke was formed and the ingenious absence had operated without us and
for us.

I was a returning guest expected, which should return, and had an old custom family home. Did
not I find my time fully to my satisfaction? That intimacy just starting, was old or new?
I could not say so, so the intuition I had done things to live long among them: both of them
suspected had resembled the usual.

Soon I met the servants: the two dogs did not bark when she arrived
at court: the small Clemencia, and John got used to me and certainly
was not the last experience the pleasing effect of the inevitable
return and statement of the facts that are repeated.

Later I was called by my name and without removing at all precede the formula the word sir, but
too often forgotten. It happened after the "Lord de Bray "- I usually say Mr de Bray - disagreed
with the tone of our conversations, and every one of us noticed it
as a note tune that hurts the ear.

Nothing really seemed to have changed in Trembles, or places or ourselves, and we appearance
- so it was so identical to before, things, time, station and even small incidents of life - day by
day to celebrate the anniversary of a friendship that had no data.

The harvest was done and ended like the previous years, with the same parties, same dances
to the beat of the same cleat operated by the same musician. Then the bagpipes left by the wayside,
deserted vineyards, wineries closed, the house returned to his quiet routine. For a month
arms rested and vegetable fields were covered: it was the month of rest species rural vacation that
lasts from October to November - after the last collection to planting - which summarizes the
good days, which brings, as a weakening of the season, heat late precursors of the first cold.
Finally, one morning came the plows, but nothing less like the vintage
sound of the sad and silent monologue of farmer driving work oxen
and the eternal gesture of the sower spreading the grain on the ground
plowed.

Trembles was a beautiful property, which Sunday drew much of his fortune and that made him rich.
The exploited by himself with help from his wife, who - according to Bray claimed - had all
the spirit of the numbers and management that he was missing. As auxiliary secondary - much
less importance and action almost like her in the complicated mechanism of a farm - had an old server,
over the range of the servants, that was acting as steward and steward. The man - whose name
will appear more later in this story - it was called Andrew, and as a native son and almost child the
house was about their love and tenderness so Privanza. When he or him spoke said "Mr. Nostromo
', and you tuteaba Bray habit acquired in childhood perpetuating
a tradition of moving his household in the relations of young employer
and the old Andrew, the main character in Trembles after the owners
of the house.

The remaining staff - rather large - was delivered in multiple units of the castle and farm.

Many times it seemed empty, except for the corral, where a crowd stirring constantly chickens,
the large garden, where farm girls collected the grass, and terrace exposed at noon in which
Madame de Bray and his sons were in the shadow of vines, becoming less compact by the rapid
fall of dry branches.
 Gyda walked hither & thither among the men, gazing at each one favoured
in her eyes; but when she was come to where Olaf held his ground looked she searchingly up
into his face and asked of what manner of man was he. Then did he make answer that he was Oli,
and said: 'I am not of the country born nor bred.' Saith Gyda: 'Wilt thou have me? Even upon
that then will I choose thee.' 'I will not say nay to it,' quoth he, and asked her name and
lineage. 'I am,' said she, 'a King's daughter of Ireland, but I was wedded into this country,
to an earl who held dominion here. For the first
After my self had to contend with rival ambitions. I watched my new comrades and I was perfectly
alone. Through the window he saw the trees small crystals agitated by the wind, whose branches
brushed against the dark walls of the building. That Family rumor across wet wind in the leaves
rose and fell at intervals the silence of the courts. I listened to him without too much bitterness,
with a sort of rapture sad sweetness of which was extreme at times.

- Are not you working? - Suddenly said Professor .-- OK ... There you ...

Callose then and no longer reached my ears nothing but the sound of
feathers running on paper.

A little later the student whose hand was my job, I deftly slipped
a piece of paper; contained a given sentence with these words:

"Help
me if you can, try to avoid saying nonsense."

Then I handed him the translation, good or bad, but copied from my own version with a sign question
I wanted to express, "Do not answer for anything you examine it."

He gave me a grateful smile, and without continued writing.

A few moments Then I sent a second message saying "Are you new?"

The question also showed me that he was. I had a moment of joy answering 'yes' my companion of
loneliness.

Was a boy of my age more or less, but of slight build, blond, thin, sweet blue eyes looking
pale and delicate complexion, and may often have children raised in the cities. Elegantly dressed
and his clothes had a particular way in which I did not recognize the hand of our disasters
provinces.

We went out together.

- I am very grateful - my new friend said to me .-- I have a horror to school and I have no
care. In it a lot of children of shopkeepers who put their hands dirty, who never I will look
like friends. We take between eyes, but it is the same.

Being together will arrive at object. The more depressed they will
respect you more.

Count on me for anything you want, least to make sense of sentences.

Latin bores me, and if it were not need to be a high school received in my life I take care of
him.

Then he explained that his name was Oliver D'Orsel, who had come to Paris for reasons family brought
him to where he would end Ormesson studies, who lived on the street Carmelites with her uncle
and two cousins ​​and a few miles from the city owned property which came to him the surname
D'Orsel.

- Go - added, - we have already a class in the past tense. Do not think about it until the evening.

And
we parted.

He walked with his shoes crunching ease fine, carefully looking for more sites dry soil to avoid
soiling of mud and swinging his bundle of books to end a narrow belt
buckles as an English bridle.

I pointed those first hours, and you see the relationship they have
with the posthumous memories of a friendship born that day, sad and
definitely dead now, the rest of my life student not entertain us.
If the three years that followed inspired me this time some interest,
it is of a different nature and have no influence at all on that interest
my feelings schoolboy. Without trying not to bother anyone I became
a good student and I predicted future successes: a continued distrust
of myself, very sincere and very conspicuous, produced effects similar
to those of modesty and gave me room to be forgiven many points of
superiority which I myself did not pay attention, and finally that
lack complete presaged personal esteem and indifference and the severity
of a spirit that should observed very early, assessed at their true
value and condense.

My aunt's house was not happy, as I've said,
and I was there alone carrying I Ormesson.

And the warlock set forth in the shape of a whale, and when he was come thither to Iceland
he went along the north side of the coast, and he saw that all the mountains and hills were
full of guardian spirits, some large & others small. When he was arrived at Vapnafjord there
went he up and was like to have gone ashore when, lo! a great dragon came down from the valley,
& in its company many serpents, toads, and vipers, and these beasts belched venom at him. Watched, listened and as much as she noticed in us a hand,
I noticed it was even more effective and certainly more complete, and not deeper.

It was darker. Her complexion, revived by soft pink, the walks brought air free as a reflection
of light and heat than gilded. Her eyes and face faster a little thinner, pupils and stained
by the efforts of a very active life and cover usual lengthy horizons. Its always caressing
and noticed that the use had purchased tender expression I do not know what new fullness that
will lend accents strongest. He walked with more ease, his feet had shrunk exercising himself
in long excursions difficult paths. His whole person seemed to have diminished in volume taking
firmer and more precise, and travel clothing, which he carried wonderfully completed a fine and
robust metamorphosis.

Magdalena was the same, enhanced, transformed by the independence, pleasure, for a thousand
accidents of a sudden there, by the exercise of all forces, contact with active elements, by
the grand spectacle of nature. Was youth itself a creature selected, with a little more nervous,
more elegant, more defined, A progress in the beauty and a resolute step in life.

I do not remember whether accurate then I realized what I say now, but I know of right when
I guessed the superiority more and more certain of it on me because at that I measured time with
absolute certainty and with an emotion I had never experienced, the enormous gap between a young,
bordering on the ten-eight, a student just has seventeen.

In addition, a more positive indication should still opening my eyes that night.

Among the bundles of luggage had a wonderful rhododendron, uprooted around which had surrounded
a proactive hand handfuls of fern and alpine plants, yet dripping water from the mountains. That
plant, brought from afar and which showed particular interest is the father of Madeleine, she
said she had been sent in memory of an expedition to the peak of *** a traveling companion
who is very loosely attached kindness, lots of culture and forecast
and many considerations regarding Mr. D'Orsel.

When melted wrappers Julia slipped a card that saw Oliver fall and which quickly took over, then
giving two or three times as if trying to assess the physiognomic
details, so to speak, of that white cardboard, read aloud Count Alfredo
de Nièvre.

Nobody was understood from the name that resonated sharply amid a silence and resolved. Magdalena
pretended not to hear, Julia did not even blink, Oliver stopped, the Mr. D'Orsel took the card and
tore it without a word. As for me, the more interested to specify the most insignificant details
of that trip, what will I tell you?

I needed to feel happy, and that is encrypted enigma to many blind spots that even less explicable
mine.

Among women and Magdalena almost emancipated teenager I just portraying, among brilliant years
and mine had a thousand obstacles known or unknown, patents or hidden born or unborn. However,
I insisted on not seeing anyone. He had thrown a lot of Magdalena least, had wanted, expected,
and now you have guessed that after game was a hundred times cursed the reprehensible spirit
of rebellion against me stirred the most enviable, the sweetest, least calculated of the easements.
Finally became so I loved loving, seductive to the point to wonder,
poetry, and how they who happens to them too much light disturbs the
surface, nothing warned me confused beyond glare blinded me.

With the absence of reasoning, rather, in my blindness, I immersed myself in the following months
as if it had entered into the infinite. Just imagine a spring, fast and very hot laughing
full of love, of generous impulses, of foresight, of perfect happiness. Tan strong was my expansion
as a coward was the refolding of myself before this sudden flowering that I was surprised at
the dullness characteristic of real childhood. Wondered if I was not allowed to offer, I was
fully with effusions in which As I had put in intelligent sincerity, the best of my moral being,
above all more flammable. I do not feel able to paint exactly that brief moment of selflessness
total, which may well be an excuse for many fits of selfishness, then fell, and during which
my life pure, saturated with good intentions, burned entirely by
way of offering and flared at the foot of Magdalene as sacred fire
before an altar.

We recovered the old ways. It was the same box embellished by the prodigious brightness of a new life.
Causábame surprised to find it all so unique and that a single influence would have the power
to change the look of things so far as to rejuvenate decrepitude and replace many aspects such
as delinquent joys. The nights were short, hot afternoons. Since we did not meet in the lounge
was veiled under the trees Mr. D'Orsel garden or in the countryside on the borders of wet meadows.
Many Sometimes I gave Magdalena arm during slow walks conducted in groups. People We were older.
Night came down upon us and it was silence, on those hours in spoken less and very quietly.
The city closed the horizon with its serious silhouettes, the tolling of bells and the bells of the
Gothic tower clocks accompanied German who rides in which I was not Werther, but I think worth
a Magdalena Charlotte, because I never told him about Klopstock and if ever my hand rested
on his was an impulse always fraternal.

At night he continued to write with fury, because nothing I was doing half. Seemed Sometimes
- such was the host of illusions that gathered in my head - which was about to deliver a masterpiece.
Was due to a force beyond my will and all that I possessed. If the memories of that time have got the
slightest of ignorance that made it so beautiful and so sterile, I would say that this singular
power, always dominating and never submissive, unequal discipline, reaching at one point and
walking away as he come, akin to what the poets call personify inspiration and his muse. It was imperative
unfaithful, two salient features that made me take it by inspiring ordinarily gifted minds.
But a day later, I realized that I caused so many visitors happiness first and then so disappointed,
I had nothing but typical of the Muse much inconstancy and very cruel.

This double life heart fever, fever of the spirit, made me a very ambiguous. Notábalo me. There was
more than she tried to ward off danger and I thought when the time to get rid of a secret no
value except to put one more precious.

- It is singular ...-- .-- Oliver told me Where will it lead?

After all, you're right if you enjoy that work.

Brief reply which contained not a little scorn and perhaps much astonishment.

Amid these distractions my studies were going pretty well. Continuing achievement negligible compared
to the greatness of the feelings that he was a man made small and in my opinion, a big heart.
From time to time received a boost far forced me to consider those less negligible success. From
the day we parted, Augustine had not forgotten me. As permitted distance between us continued
by providing the lessons that had begun in Trembles. With the superiority that was paying the
experience of life addressed by the more difficult sides in the largest scenarios, according
to the moral progress meant his disciple, had risen gradually the tone of their advice. His
lessons and almost became man talks man. I spoke little of himself and only in vague terms to
say that worked, which was great obstacles, but expected to come to fruition. Sometimes rapid description,
sketch of the world he lived, the facts, the ambitions that surrounded him, followed the expression
of good spirits that had to fight, to experience time and prepare the lessons that later had to find
the most brutal realities. He worried about what I thought, what he was doing and constantly
asked me what was had finally decided to start after he came out
of my province.

* * *

"I know - I said - you are the first class. Is fine. But not conceited for similar benefits.
Emulation in the school is the ambition that naive you know later. Get used to stay in front
so you never feel satisfied with yourself if you were to take only the second in the future.
Especially not mistake the motive for their efforts, do not confuse pride with modest appreciation
what you can do. Do not worry, ever, especially in the moral order, that extreme height of
the object and the need to approach it as much as possible, that will lend you great humility
and great strength. The general almost impossible, to reach the end of certain dreams will consider
estimable and worthy of pity, the effort than man of good faith attempt to perfection. If you
feel closer to him, recalculate what remains to be done and the cowering
worth more, from the moral point of view, not the Vanities.

"

* * *

Let me show you some excerpts from letters of Augustine and assuming
my answers it's easy to understand the general spirit of our correspondence
and you will see more precisely what were then his life and mine.

"Paris 18 ...

"Eighteen months ago I'm here! Yes, my dear Sunday, eighteen months have elapsed since we parted
in that little plaza saying goodbye. Twenty-four hours then every one of us got down to work.
Deseole, my dear friend, that is more pleased with himself that I'm me. Life just is easy for
those who glean without penetration. For those Paris is the first in the world where you can
be more easily the belief that it exists. Just be swayed by the current as a swimmer in a mass of heavy
water and quickly, you float in it, and no one drowns. You see that someday and will see much
success due only to the lightness of the characters and many disasters that would not have suffered
with different weights in the convictions. It's good to familiarize early on with the show's
real causes and effects. I do not know what ideas you have all this, if you have them. In any case
is unlikely to be accurate and the sad part is that you're right. The world should be at all
similar to what you think. If you know how different it is! While you can not judge itself
Get used to these two ideas: that there are truths and there are men.

You never change about the native feeling that you have respect to some, and others as to expect the
day when they are known.

"Write to me more often. Do not tell me I already know his life and has nothing to refer. In
the years that you have and in a soul like yours every day there is something new. Remember
the measuring time sheets that you were born and I connected the number of lines had grown
under the action of one night of frost or a day of strong sun? It is the same the moments of
a young man of his age. No wonder then that rapid development, knowing you, I imagine to be surprised
and perhaps scare. Let stand forces that case you do not have anything dangerous to tell me
that you know, let me seeing as it is and I'll tell you again how much he has grown. Above all
be naive in their sensations. Do you need to study them? Is not it enough to feel excited? The
Sensitivity is a wonderful gift, in the order of the creations you produce can be become a formidable
force, but with one condition: that you stir not against itself. If a spontaneous and creative
faculty eminently subtle, makes you an item observation, if refined, if you look, if not enough
to feel and experience the need study the mechanism, if the spectacle of a soul is excited that
suits him of emotion, if it is surrounded by mirrors to multiply the image converging to infinity,
if you mix human analysis to the divine gifts, if you become a sensitive sensual, no limits
for such evils, and I warn you, that is very serious. There is a very old story is charming,
lends itself to many interpretations and the recommend. Narcissus fell in love with his own image,
he could not separate it from their eyes, it was not possible he reached to grab her and died
of the same illusion that he had seduced. Think of this and if it happen suffering, loving, living,
as much as you see fit seductive ghost of yourself, stay away from
him.

"

* * *

"You tell me which is annoying. That is as good as declaring that suffers, the boredom be more
than empty brains or hearts incapable of being injured by anything. But Why suffer? Is it something
that you can tell me? If I were near you would know. When I give the right to question him
more positively tell you what I imagine.

If not I cheated and is it true that you yourself do not know what is starting to cause suffering,
both better, because it is proof that your heart has kept all the innocence in his brain no longer
exists.

"Do not ask me to tell you about me, my ego is not anything until the present. Who knows, apart
you? It is really interesting to anyone. Works, he strives not care nothing nothing is fun, wait
some time and yet still wanting. Is that enough? And we'll see.

"I live in a neighborhood that is probably not where you live, because you have the right choice.
All those who like me out of nowhere to become something, come where I am, the city's books
in a corner of the desert, laid by four or five centuries of heroism,
of jobs, hardships, sacrifices, hopes aborted suicide and glory.

The residence hall is very sad, but beautiful.

If it had been free to choose, no one would have preferred. I pity you because you live there:
I'm in my site. "

* * *

"Write you and that makes it should be. That you keep secret from those around you is a shyness that
I understand, and I am sure you must feel the desire to confide in me. The day the confidence
you need to take that point, send me the fragments can communicate without alarming too his
modesty as a writer ...

"Another thing I would like to know: what is that friend of whom you speak to me just now? The portrait
that he made me was seductive. If I knew it must be a lovely boy,
bad student. Take the easy life for the bright side. In this case,
advise her to live without ambitions, because that would be the worst
kind. And tell him also that no nothing else to do in the world but
be happy. It would be unforgivable to make chimeras in satisfaction
so positive and mix what you call ideal vanity appetites.

"I do not
dislike his Oliverio I worry. It is clear that this young man early,
positive, smart, resolved, you can lose the way and passed the unsuspecting
said.

Hard by sat a fair man with goodly hair and he swept his hair forward over his face, saying
as he stretched forth his neck: 'Make not my hair bloody.' A certain man took the hair in his
hand and held it fast, and Thorkel swang the axe so as to strike, but the viking drew back
his head suddenly & he who was holding his hair moved forward with him, and lo, the axe came
down on both his hands and took them off, thereafter cleaving the earth. Not I'm
looking for imaginary contrast, I remember the feeling aroused in my mind, in such circumstances,
in such an hour, in such a place, the sight of those young men, dressed in mourning and I like
all widows. From time to time, turned his face to the city and only differed on the far limit
of the meadows, a little dark line of boulevards and the tips of your bell. I asked myself what
had I done to remain there so long and how it was possible to consume me there without dying then
I heard the touch of vespers, and the ringing of bells, accompanied by a thousand memories, I I
was saddened and called severe compromises. I thought it was necessary to return before at
night, locked up again, and harder still undertook the river road.

Returned, and was not paid, but quite the contrary, more excited by that wandering during several
hours outdoors, through roads, breathing in a warm environment under the rough and biting
action of the April sun. Felt a kind of intoxication, was saturated extraordinary emotions that expressed
frankly in my face, in the aspect of my whole person.

- What are you, my dear son? - My aunt said to me.

- He walked very quickly - I replied with some diversion.

I looked again, and with a wave of anxious mother brought me under fire from his eyes clear and deep.
Disturbed me horribly and I could not stand the sweetness of that
look or the penetration of tenderness do not know what possessed me
confused with a vague question unbearable that she expressed.

- Let
me, I beg you, dear aunt - I said.

And got rushed to my room. I found it illuminated by the slanting rays of the sun west and was
as dazzled by the glow of that warm, reddish light that invaded as a wave of life. However, I
felt more at ease seeing me alone and I looked in the window waiting healthy when the torrent
of clarity that would be extinguished. They were gradually reddening high walls bell, the noise
became more visible through the air more humid, broad bands were formed on Fire the decline to
the side where it rose above the houses the masts of ships moored to the riverbank.

So I stayed up the night, wondering what I was experiencing, and not knowing what to answer hearing,
seeing, feeling, stifled by the pulsations of an extraordinary vitality, over exciting, stronger,
more active, more incomprehensible than ever. He wished that someone was there, but why? Did not
know to explain it. And who? I knew even less. If there had to choose a confidant of all beings,
then I was more dear, me would have been impossible to name any.

Only when there were a few minutes to extinguish the last glow of day I out. I crept through the
streets he knew were less frequent to places Boulevard where the grass sprouted in complete
solitude. I crossed the square where the first ringing sounds of the military tattoo. Then the sound
of the horns away and I followed the march distance, the winding streets, guided by the echo of
them clearer or more confusing as the width of the space where the sound was displayed through
the air, in complete stillness that night. Alone, completely alone in the blue twilight descending
from heaven on elm foliage studded with light, in light of the first stars that filtered through
the branches of trees planted on the reserve sparks from the leaves, walking along the wide
avenue that listening to rhythmic music as well and letting myself be guided by their cadences.
He was keeping time, mentally hear humming when I stopped, I was in the soul as a movement that
continues, and became a kind of rhythm and melody on which involuntarily adapted a letter.
I no longer have the memory of the words not the case, nor the meaning of the phrases I only know
that this singular breath out me first as a simple rhythm, then words rhymed, and that this
internal measure suddenly led not only by the symmetry of the syllables but by the double repeat
or combinations of some of them are deaf or sound, corresponding and doing some eco the others.
I would not tell you that this was a poetic, but the fact is that the combination of the words
sound was much like the verses.

At the same time I got to that point in my reflections, appeared before
me, in the same street that I ran, our longtime friend, Mr. D'Orsel
together their two daughters.

So close they could not avoid meeting, and the same concern I would have prevented me dominated.
I was, then, face to face with the quiet eyes and the pale face of Magdalena.

- How do here? "- He said.

I still can hear his voice net, air, with an accent of the south that
made me shudder.

Mechanically took the hand I lay, a small hand, fine and fresh, cold as me given the notion
that burned mine. We were so close that I made out with accuracy his face and I brushed away
the idea that in turn should see me as I her.

- Do you have caused fear? - Added.

The change of tone in his voice I knew that my horrible embarrassment was noticeable, and as
nothing on earth would have agreed to remain a single second in this
impossible situation, I stammered something so out of reason, that
I chickened out, I lost my head and giddy, unwisely I noticed a leak.

That night, deserted of my aunt's room and locked myself in my room for fear of being caught. There,
without thinking anything, either unintentionally, as a man absolutely
fascinated by a company that both scares and seduces him, in a row,
without rereading, almost without hesitation, I wrote a lot of unexpected
things that seemed to fall from the sky.

He went to way too much burden left my heart, whose weight was relieved as it would get rid of.

He
took me to feverish work very late at night. At last it seemed that there was completed an
unavoidable task, all irritated fibers relaxed, and already at dawn
when the birds awoke, I slept prey to the most delicious languor.

Oliver the next day I spoke of my meeting with her cousins, to my embarrassment, my escape.

- You do mystery - told me - and you're wrong. If I had some secret I share with you.

I hesitated a moment if you say the truth or not. It was as simple and it would have been positively
rather than hide it, but my statement opposing a thousand obstacles real or imaginary I presented
it as impossible. What terms would I let him know how I felt some time ago no one would have
suspected?

How to speak, in cold blood, those strange modesty that obscure the light of day, which did
not support me or outside review, and like a fresh wound and required not too sensitive to be
touched even with look?

How this crisis sensitivity refer inexplicable and that sort of enchanted evening written testimony
which I found in the morning?

I replied with a lie for several days before I felt sick, the heat of the day before I had
caused a kind of vertigo and Magdalena begged to excuse me the sad figure I made the find.

- Oliver continued .-- Magdalena ?...-- But we have no accounts to settle with Magdalena ... There
are things that do not concern ...

Saying that she smiled in a singular way and gave me a look of the most pervasive and more
alive. For how hard he tried to read what was in my soul, I was pretty sure discovered nothing,
but realizing that something was looking for, and although not quite figure out what could be the
feelings, very vain, which I supposed Oliverio, seeing the object of such research and reflected
a suspicion dawned on me that filled me with trepidation.

It was so perfectly naive and ignorant, that the first awakening of
certain impulses in the middle my naiveté I was marked by a troubled
look on my aunt and misleading and curious Oliverio smile.

I just watched and I felt the desire to find out the cause of that surveillance. It was a false
suspicion that for the first time in my life made me blush. I do not know indefinable instinct
what my heart swelled with an emotion entirely new. Suddenly, a strange light shone child that
verb, the first thing we all conjugated in French or studying Latin grammar. Two days after that warning
by a wise mother and a comrade emancipated, was not far to admit - was therefore full my mind
of scruples, curiosities and concerns, - that my aunt and Oliver were right suspecting that
I was in love, but whose? ...

Next Sunday evening we all met as usual in the living room of my aunt. When Magdalena was felt
some trepidation, I had not seen since Thursday last evening. It was clear that she expected
an explanation, but I was unable to feeding it and shut up. I was terribly confused and distracted.
Oliver - who did not believe that there no reason to be charitable with me - he grilled me with
his epigrams. Was harmless what he said, but since many days before, was so extraordinary my
irritability nerves than anything hurt me and caused me suffering unprovoked. I was sitting next
Magdalena because of a habit acquired without the will of either
had given rise to it under any circumstances.

Suddenly felt the desire to change site. Why? He could not have said it. It seemed, simply, that
the light of lamps and that bothered me I would be better elsewhere. When Magdalena raised low
eyes was watching the game and saw me sitting across the table, just in front of her, said
with an air of surprise: "Well ...?» But our eyes and found something extraordinary had noticed
in mine that slightly disturbed and prevented finish.

About one and a half ago because he lived near her and for the first
time that night I looked as you look when you want to see.

Magdalena was lovely, more charming than not said, very different
than I had considered until that time.

In addition he was ten and eight years. Sudden appreciation that, far from light my spirit little
by little, amid second taught me everything I know about her and myself. It was like a final revelation
completing those of the preceding days, combining them in a lot of
evidence and I think explaining them all.

VI

A few weeks later, Mr. D'Orsel moved to a thermal bath establishment claiming health reasons and
recreation, but in reality there are special reasons for which I found out later. Magdalena and Julia
went with him.

That separation - of which had any regrets as a tear - I freed in a big hurry. I could no longer
live near always restrained by Magdalena the invincible shyness that
his presence was causing.

Fled from it. The fact of looking face face was for me a true rudeness of audacity. The man was
quiet when I I was so disturbed, finding it so perfectly beautiful, when I had many reasons
for recognize nasty to my college and my suit look gawky farmer, invaded my be a humbling sense
of inferiority that filled me with distrust, transforming the easiest familiarity submission
without sweetness, with hints in vile bondage of slavery. In a word, Magdalena scared me seduce me dominated
before: the heart has the the same naive faith, all faiths and passionate start.

The day that followed the departure of Magdalena I hurried to go to
the streets of the Carmelites.

Oliver was in a room, small, lost in a large hall of the hotel. Ordinarily would I look for when
entering the school, called him from the garden to come down. I remembered that at that hour,
almost every morning I answered another voice, Magdalena looked out the window and greeted
me, I thought of the excitement it caused me that interview quotidian, before without charm or
danger and then had become a real pain, and entered, boldly, almost happy, as if something in me
had to be fearful and guarded, take their vacation.

The house was empty. The servants came and went, as amazed, they too, have not as reported. They had opened
all the windows and the May sun was playing freely in the rooms, where everything was in place.
It was not neglect, was the absence. I sighed. I figured that that absence would last. Two
months. The deadline soon seemed too short and I seemed very long. I would have liked - both
experienced The need to belong - that he never had so meager breath.

I returned the other day and the next and found the same serenity and the same security. I toured the
entire the house, I visited the garden path by path, Magdalena was everywhere. I dared to entertain
freely with his memory. I looked at the window of her room and she saw your lovely face. I heard his
voice on the park rides and I started humming to find that the murmur echo sing songs that he
liked the outdoors, the wind was so fluid and were accompanied by the rustling of the leaves. I
saw a thousand things in memory of her that I was either ignored or not I was impressed, certain
gestures that being nothing were charming, gracious recognized the habit he had to twist her
hair on the neck and black tie through beam forming. The smallest particularities his suit or his
gestures, exotic aroma that perfumed and I would have to recognize with closed eyes, even the
colors he had taken of late, it was so blue well and both brought out the clear whiteness of
her skin.

All that revived in my memory with amazing clarity, but create excitement very different from that
which occurred when I she was present, a sort of nostalgia that I was pleased to caress, sweet
memory kind of things that were not there. Gradually, without much heat, but with everlasting
tenderness saturated me those reminiscences, the only attractive almost alive than she was, and
had not yet been fifteen days since the departure of Magdalena when
that memory invasive never left my mind for a moment.

One afternoon I went to the room of Oliver and, as always, I passed the Magdalena. Many times
were found wide open the door without me came the desire to enter. That afternoon I stopped short,
and after much hesitation consistent with scruples as new as all other sentiment I felt, I yielded
to a temptation and entered.

The room was nearly dark. Barely distinguishable furniture, antique wood tawny color and gilding
of the marquetry shone faintly. Sober-colored fabrics, floating white muslin to another set
of pale colors and sweet, permeating of peaceful seclusion in a soft twilight gloom. The warm
air coming saturated with the scent of garden flowers, but were dominated by a subtle perfume, more
alive than others, that impressed me more than anyone to perceive, remember Magdalena unequivocal.
I went to the window: she was in the habit of leaning Magdalena.

I plopped down on a armchair in which she used to sit and lay there a few minutes more live prey
anxiety, despite holding me by the desire to enjoy the novelty of
which seemed impressions exquisite.

Do not see anything, for anything in the world would have dared to lay hands on any of the objects
around me, motionless, attentive only to penetrate the candid emotion
that I felt convulsively shaken my heart, and his movements were so
abrupt that instinctively squeezing my chest with both hands to stifle
uncomfortable as possible beats.

Suddenly sounded in the corridor the dry sound of the footsteps of Oliver and I hardly had time
to slide to the door before he arrived.

- I expected - just told me to persuade me that I had not seen leaving the room Magdalena or that
no objection was the fact.

He was dressed very elegantly, his tie knotted with abandon and costume, made of light material,
so loose as was his desire to wear clothing, especially in summer. He had a gait as unwrapped,
in a manner so free to move, dress clothes floating at certain times
all in all looked like a young foreigner, English or American.

This was one of the attractions of his person, and I, who have had occasion to appreciate his
fine qualities as well their weaknesses, can not say I put too many
claims in the manner of dress, although he did real studio.

He believed that the composition of the indumentum, the choice color, the proportions of an outfit
were very worthy thing to be taken into account a man of good taste, but once learned that combination,
and did not think about it, and would have been him great injustice, to suppose that her attire
more time to worry the need for care ingenious that it became.

- Come to the boulevards - said taking me by the arm .-- I want you to accompany me and it is almost
overnight.

He walked quickly and pulled me as if I were pressed for time. Took on the way shorter, crossed the
deserted avenues and took me right to where they are used summer stroll in the evening. There was
a lot of people, everything a small town Ormesson could muster as the worldly, rich and elegant.
Oliver always walked hurry, distracted look, so absorbed and excited by secret impatience forgot
that I was at his side. Suddenly slowed the pace, relied more on my arm as if to seek support
and moderate to master certain effervescence which tended to overflow. I realized I had reached the
end of an inquiry.

Two women were heading towards us along the edge of the avenue, mysteriously warm by the shadow
of the elms. One was young and remarkably beautiful, my recent experience
I had a taste for those definitions and delicate and I was right.

I noticed on the way to tread with light step and cut the grass that
grew at the foot of trees, like walking on a carpet lint flexible.

We stared with less Magdalena grace, but with a panache that it never would have dared to afford
and still away, and preparing to answer to a very special smile to greet Oliver. This greeting
was changed as close as possible, with grace and a bit of neglect,
and after the young blonde's face, still smiling, was hidden by the
lace hat, my friend turned to me his, and with an accent audacious
question said:

- Do you know Madame de X. ..?

We tried one person who spoke a little in the world to which I accompanied my Aunt sometimes.
Nothing was unusual in that Oliver would have been presented, and naively told him.

- Precisely - he said - danced with her one night last winter and from ...

Interrumpiose, and after a brief silence he continued:

- My dear
Sunday, and you know that I have no father or mother, I am only nephew
my uncle, and that part I do not expect more affection that is due
me as a relative, ie very small portion of the estate of tenderness
that right belongs to my two cousins. I have, Therefore, the need
to be loved, in a different form that of a college friend ... Do not
protest; I'm very grateful for the commitment that you show me and
keeps me no doubt, come what you want. Is it in
thy heart, Kark, that thou shouldst betray me?' 'Nay,' said Kark, 'we two were born on the
self-same night, and long space will there not be twixt the hour of our deaths.' Towards evening
went King Olaf away, & when it was night Kark slept, and the Earl kept watch, but Kark was
troubled in his sleep. Then the Earl awakened him & asked him whereof he dreamt, and he said:
'I was now even at Ladir, and Olaf Tryggvason placed a gold ornament about my neck.'

The Earl answered: 'A blood-red ring will it be that Olaf Tryggvason will lay about thy neck,
shouldst thou meet with him. Beware now, and betray me not, & thou shalt be treated well by
me as heretofore.' Then stay they both sleepless each watching the other, as it might be, but
nigh daybreak fell the Earl asleep and was troubled at once, so troubled that he drew his heels
up under him & his head likewise under him, and made as though he would rise up, calling aloud
and in a fearsome way. Then grew Kark afeard & filled with horror, so it came to pass that
he drew a large knife from his belt and plunged it into the throat of the Earl cutting him
from ear to ear. Thus was encompassed the death of Earl Hakon. 

I told you I loved how Magdalene with stunning, with complete unconsciousness no basis for any real
hope. The idea of ​​marriage, besides a hundred times absurd, even the innocent breath had
lent momentum to an affection that was enough himself to be, was to spread and formed a cult
with no other motive than to worship. What were the feelings of Magdalene? I never worried about
them. Rightly or wrongly, attributed indifference and impossibilities of idol, the supposed
alien to any accessions that inspired, the chimeric placed in isolation and this was sufficient
to meet the secret instinct, nevertheless, exists in the hearts of those less occupied themselves
with the need to imagine that Madeleine was invincible and did not love anyone.

I was sure that Madeleine could not feel any interest in a perhaps
surprising that had thrown in his way as a mere accident.

It was possible that the single life longing did not see no fear approaching the moment of taking
a game so seriously. But certainly - yet admitting that he was free from any serious affection,
- the will of his father, considerations rank, social position and fortune, would decide to accept an alliance
to which the Lord of Nièvre contributed, plus lots of convenience, high quality otherwise.

He felt no resentment, no anger or jealousy of the man who made me
so unhappy.

Before to embody the rule of law represented, and that of reason. So the day the Magdalena's father
introduced us to each other at my aunt telling her that I was the best friend of his daughter,
remember to shake the hand of the Lord of Nièvre honestly thought: "Well But if she loves you,
he loves you too! "
 And this was brought about by the coming of the time when blood-offerings
& the men of blood-offerings were doomed, & in their stead were found the true Faith and righteous
worship.

¶ In general Thing at Throndhjem was Olaf Tryggvason chosen to be King of the land, even as
Harald Fair-hair had been King. A kind of cry of anguish escaped Magdalena's
lips without uttering a word, put his elbows on the balcony the abyss between us, feeling the huge
tower shook under our feet each brunt of the wind, attracted by the immense danger and as requested
by the clamor from below the tide was rising, remain long in the greatest astonishment, like people
who have feet on the fragile life, one day, miraculously, they ran never heard the adventure
of looking and seeing the afterlife.

I understood perfectly well that the influence of that feeling any human fiber had to break: was necessary
to yield one of us, if not the most excited, the most fragile. It was Julia.

Oliver was still with the little hand trembling beside the young man's hand, clenched over the
railing of the balustrade, his head bent over the sea, half-closed eyes, that expression of loss
that characterizes the dizziness, pale face, like a child dying. Oliver was the first thing he
noticed was going to faint and took her in his arms.

A few seconds later he came to himself with a sigh that raised her thin distressing figure.

- There is nothing - then said reacting against access irresistible faintness and down.

Nothing more was said of that incident was forgotten, no doubt, like
many others.

And if I I remember our walks today to refer to the lighthouse, you have to that he was the first
indication obscure certain facts which should have an outcome later.

Sometimes when the sea was completely calm and serene sky, a boat came to pick us up the coast
to the end of the meadows, and took us out to sea. It was a boat fishing and as soon as he took
the long stretched out the candle, then in a sea slow, flat white to reflect the sun, like tin,
the pattern tended networks. Of time hours were collected and saw
them entangled in all kinds of fish, shiny scales, strange and seafood,
caught in deep water or uprooted, scrambled with algae, hiding underwater.
 'I will make a bargain with thee on this matter,' said he, 'I will bear thee home
with me to Norway if thou wilt wed me.'

So Astrid being in such dire straits and knowing him full well to be a man that was brave &
had many possessions, yea and moreover goodly lineage, plighted she him her troth so that she
might be set free. Thus it came to pass that Lodin bought Astrid, and bare her away home even
unto Norway, and wedded her there with the goodwill of her kinsfolk. 

Did not cause me hesitation that flow of words, but I finally hear. The affectionate exasperation Oliver
served as a calming on my nerves terribly excited and tempered his tension. I asked him to
forgive me that start, end of my daze, ensuring in my words there were no hints of distrust. I begged
him to let this crisis pass of weakness, pain and fatigue result and promised to change the gender
of life. Lived in the same social and recognized it was wrong of me not to haunt him. Had should
certainly not be singled out with a systematic withdrawal. He said a portion of sensible things,
as if suddenly regained his reason. And he also missed unless the expansion of our privacy,
making us more flexible, more conciliatory, better, being together, I spoke to him, his life
almost entirely passed away from me, and I regretted not knowing what was done and whether he had
reason to be satisfied.

- Satisfied. That is the word - he said with an almost comical .-- Every man has particular
vocabulary for their ambitions. Yes, I'm pretty satisfied at this point, and if I settle for
satisfaction which have no information of chimeric, my life will run in perfect balance and will
be happy to satiety.

- Have you heard of Ormesson?

- None. You know how that story ended.

- Why a breakup?

- No, by an absence that is not the same because
of the past and keep each other the only memory that never gets dirty
memories.

- What now?

- Now!

... You know something?

...

- I know nothing, but I guess you've done what I recommended recently.

-
Indeed - Oliverio said smiling.

Then he turned serious and continued:

- At another time I'll tell you. Now there is no chance. The atmosphere of this room is permeated
a very respectable emotion. There is no promiscuity among women of which you speak and that
other one whose name must not be uttered even while on the other
hand.

Sound of footsteps in the hall interrupted our conversation. My man said Augustine rarely came to
this hour.

The sight of this energetic and forceful face me returned to some extent a bit of energy. It
seemed as if the fate sent me a reinforcement at that moment you
need it.

- You arrive in good time - I said .-- seeking animated
show was not worth the take me so much work, right?

You see, I have destroyed everything.

Hablábale always meets a former student on his teacher, and giving
them the right questioning me about my homework.

- It's about to
start - he said, not surprised by what I saw .-- I know what is!

...

Oliver said nothing.

After several minutes of silence, yawned gently stroked with hand
his curly hair and said:

- I'm bored and I'm taking a walk in the
Forest ...

X

- Does it work? - Augustine asked me when Oliver left
us.

- Very little, and yet, learn as if working.

- So much the better.

Has attracted luck.

If life were a lottery, this young man's dream numbers would come out winners.

Augustine was not the kind that induce or those who should enrich a dream number. What I have
been told it must have made him understand that he was not born for favors of chance and that
all the items he had made his will stop, worth putting more than profit. From the day I saw you
leave Trembles, with a letter arrived from Paris in the pocket, as a soldier with his itinerary
in hand, their hopes had received more than one check, but this had not diminished his strong
faith nor did he hesitate, just for a minute that success, if not glory, were Paris at the
end of the road that he undertook. He did not complain, did not accuse anyone, do not despair
for nothing. Without any illusions had the tenacity of the blind hopes and what other would
like pride, there was in it rather than feeling very accurately determined their right. Appreciated
the things with the serenity of a jeweler who tested quality jewelry doubtful, and rarely mistaken
in choosing which were worth devote time and labor.

Had protective. Do not think it would dishonor seek support, because he only proposed an exchange
of equivalent values. And this contrast - he said - not ever humiliate that contributes to
society the number of his intelligence, zeal and talent. Did not affect contempt of money - which
was in great need Sabíalo .-- I without him tell me. Did not disdain the results, but placed
well below a capital of ideas, as him, no one can represent, or pay. "I am - he said - a worker
who works with tools low cost, it is true, but what they produce is priceless, it is good.
"

Not considered, therefore, grateful to anybody. The services we had done had bought and pagádolos
well. And in that kind of sales - which exclude hand if conventionalism social treatment, humiliation
all at least - was his way of offering, which determined notably
the high price that his understanding was only fair.

- From the time
that half the money - he said - and no more than a business in which
the heart does not fit all and that does not compromise in any way,
to thank.

I and das. The talent itself, in such cases is not simply a duty of honesty.

I had tried many positions and tried different companies, not a hobby,
but by necessity.

Not being able to choose the media, had the gift of the application rather than the flexibility which
allows applying all. A force of will, vision, burning almost made up for natural powers which
recognized private. His will, supported on special good sense and perfect righteousness, miracles.
Made all the higher forms, noble, sometimes brilliant. Did not feel it all, but nothing that he
did not understand. Also approached the manifestations of pure imagination by a tensile stress
of his mind, always in touch with everything that the world has better ideas and more beautiful
and bordered on the pathetic by the perfect knowledge of the hardships of life and the devouring
ambition to achieve legitimate satisfaction, even if it were to barter a long struggle.

Having addressed the theater - for which it was not considered sufficiently recommended or with
enough preparation, - was launched in journalism.

When I say it was launched, do not use the word to explain the idea, because she did not corresponds
to the action of a man who, being unable to stunning, are presented in fore with the courage
informed of prudence does not risk much more than that to achieve favorable success.

A few months ago he had entered the service of an eminent public man, as secretary.

- I - I said - in the midst of a movement that appeals to me, but I am interested and illustrated.
Politics, in these times, includes many ideas, makes so many problems, which is the test mean
more instructive and more especially designed to be a crossroads looking ambition output.

His material situation was unknown to me. The supposed hard, but was that an issue about which
it seemed unwise to speak.

Sometimes the only continent that tireless fighter betrayed to his dismay, no hesitation, but
suffering. The stoic Augustine said nothing. His attitude was the same as ever, their way of thinking
had not lost one iota of the usual strength. Acted, thought, resolved as if he had never suffered
the slightest onslaught of luck, but it was an indescribable indefinable, something like the red
spots that appear in the garb of a wounded soldier. For a long time I had asked what part of
that organization vulnerable iron had been lacerated, and finally realized that Augustine,
like everyone, had heart and realized it was the noble and courageous
heart that bled.

Then he sat down and so I saw him cross his legs one over the other,
with the attitude of a man who has nothing to say and enter a friend's
house forgetting the object of his visit, I realized that he was not
in the spirit and cheerful disposition.

- Have not you are happy,
my dear Augustine? - I asked.

- Have you guessed it! - Replied in
a tone that showed bitterness.

- Need is to guess when you have pride
in not declaring it.

- My son - he continued, using that form paternal
always lent a certain charm to the rudeness of his advice - the problem
is not whether one is happy, what matters is to find if you have done
everything to become so.

A good man deserves, undoubtedly, be happy; but do not always have
the right to complain because it is not yet.

It's about time, the moment of opportunity.

There are many ways to suffer: some suffer in error, others impatience.

Excuse me a rebuff of modesty. Maybe I'm just a little impatient.

- Impatient? And of what? Did you know?

- Not alone - he said with singular emotion, - so that if I ever reached a name not see me reduced
to a sad result of my selfishness crown.

Then he added:

- Do not talk about these things too soon.

You'll be the first who will realize them when the time comes.

He was silent a moment, standing up said:

- We are not here: this smacks of defeat. Not that it bothers me, but makes you want to be abandoned.

We
went out and walking, walking you caught up with the specific complaints of nuisance and disappointment
that I had. My letters had warned him and the rest of the day it assumed Magdalena and he saw.
I did not find, therefore, no difficulty for him of the serious circumstances of a situation
he knew so well as I, nor to explain the perplexities of my soul
in which he had measured all the strength and every weakness.

- For
four years I know you love - told me the first word he uttered.

-
Four years?

But then I knew not to Magdalena!

- Do you remember, my friend, the day he was surprised the misadventures of Hannibal crying? Well
Well, at first I was shocked, unable to admit that college composition could anyone move like
that. Then I reasoned that had nothing to do with Hannibal emotion. So read the first of his
letters from you I thought, 'I knew', and as I saw Mrs. Nièvre realized that it was her.

As for my procedere judged that it was difficult but not impossible to direct. Whereas the issue
from different viewpoints of those who take Oliverio, advised me to heal, but using procedures
considered to be the only ones worthy of me.

We parted after many laps around the walls of the Seine. The night was approaching. I found myself
alone in Paris at a time unusual, aimless, lacking in daily habits,
no connections, no obligations, thinking anxiously

- What shall I
do tonight?

What shall I do tomorrow? ...

Totally forgot that since many months, throughout a long winter, had not company. It seemed to
me that when they had abandoned acting in me, and I was no Assistant to handle a life hereafter
would leave me in the vacuum idleness. The idea of ​​turning my house does not even crossed
my mind by thinking I went to look at books I had gotten sick with
disgust.

I remembered that Oliver should be at the theater knew what and who accompanied him. Not having
why more cowardly to resist, I took a car and I drive. I took a dark box from which expected
to see Oliver without being noticed. It was not in any of the other boxes he had in front of
me. I figured that would have changed the project or would in any locations high above me occupied
and I was given no see. Having failed the plan of him in his gallant adventure, I wondered what
it was that there had to be done. I was, however, and it would be difficult to explain to you
why: such was the disorder my spirit which is shuffled with boredom, penalties and fainting with
perverse curiosity. Sinking look at all the boxes occupied by women, views from below were an
irritant exposure almost disembodied breasts and bare arms only partly covered by gloves. Examined
the hair, eyes, smiles and looking for persuasive comparisons can endanger the perfect memory
of Magdalena. He had only one desire: the impetuous desire in any way to evade prosecution of
that one memory. The debased to my taste, and dishonor waiting for that environment, render
it unworthy of it, get rid of it by dint of dirtying. Leaving the theater, when crossed the
lobby I heard a group of people the voice of Oliver. He spent about me and not I saw. I could
barely see a distinguished-looking person, very elegant, who accompanied him. We went into our
respective departments about the same time and I was still in suit, when he appeared at the
door of my room.

- Where are you? - He said.

- From the theater.

And what I said.

- Am I looking for?

- I was not intending to get you, just wanted to see - I replied.

- I do not understand. In any case these are trifles or other shrimp
that if you were not the forgive you.

But you're bad and I pity you.

I did not see more for two or three days. Severity had to be vigorously addressed. It was reported
me and my man and I knew I was worried about my condition and without seeming to watch me.
Each day of inaction exhausted me more and more demoralized me. Took no decisive match, but I
felt that my weakness was going to swoop down the first accident
that moved him.

Three days later, at a Forest Avenue why I walked desperate, I saw slowly a fine carriage harness.
Iban in it three persons: two young women and Oliverio. In As the latter recognized me, jumped
quickly to the ground, grabbed my arm and without saying word made me into the carriage and then
he was sitting next to me as if it were of abduction told the driver: "Go ahead." I felt lost and
it was, in fact, for some time at least.

Regarding the two months of this loss - which lasted only the time at best - I'll refer only easy
to foresee the incident that ended.

At first I forget to Magdalena, because I remember every time he came
to my mind, I said, "Flee!" as respected hidden from view at certain
frames hurtful or embarrassing.

Never once saying his name. I put together an obstacle world and indignities. Oliverio A moment
came to believe that this was over, but the person with whom I was
trying to kill unwelcome memory that was not deceived.

One day, for lightness My friend, who was reported as slightly less
stronger believed my reason, I knew that their businesses claiming
the presence of Mr. D'Orsel in his province and that all residents
Nièvre would be moving soon to Ormesson.

At that moment it was adopted a resolution and decided to break.

-
I come to say goodbye - I said when entering a room that had never
set foot.

- That's what I would have done something later, but soon
- she told me without express surprise, or disappointment.

- So Do
not resent me?

- No way.

You do not belong.

He sat in front of the toilet and said, 'Goodbye', without looking
back.

But I looked in the mirror and smiled.

I left her without explanation.

- Another folly more - Oliver told me when he heard what I had done.

-
Stupidity or free heme - I said .-- I'll Trembles and take you with
me.

Will not be difficult are resolved to come to a holiday.

- Trembles do you? Magdalena "Trembles? - Repeated Oliverio whose plans had disrupted my abrupt
and reckless decision.

- Dear friend - I told her estranged throwing
myself into his arms, - do not tell me nothing, nothing objective.

I'll be cautious, very cautious, but I will be happy too, give me those two months, they will not return,
I will make a finding that it is short time and perhaps the only period of that that I will in
my life.

He spoke so ardently driven by desire, I was so refreshed, so changed
by the prospect unexpected that trip, that she was tempted and was
weak and the generosity of nod everything.

- Sea - said .-- In short,
it is incumbent on you to you alone.

I am not a guardian angel. After I quite all the steps leading only two raving lunatics like
you and me.

XI

Those two months' residence with Magdalena in our lonely home in the countryside, shores of our sea,
so beautiful in such a season, was a source of constant delight, mixed with purified torments
me. Not a single day that is not designated for any large or small temptation, not a minute
that does not correspond to a beat of my heart, chill, a hope, a disappointment.

I could tell you today, the date and precise location of a thousand
emotions very faint traces of which has remained in my memory, despite
the smallness of fact: I would show you this corner Park, just steps
from the terrace, this field site, the people of the escarpment, in
where the soul of the insensitive things so well preserved the memory
of Magdalena and mine, if you seek - God forbid - I would find as
recognizable as the next day our departure.

Magdalena had never been in Trembles and that residence, although a bit sad and median liked.
As much as I had the same reasons as I to have deposited love it,
I had heard it so often that my own memories had been fully released
v helped him feel good there.

- The earth is like you - I said .--
I had imagined how, with just him to you.

It is a melancholy landscape, quiet, gentle heat. Life has to be in that half peaceful and
reflective. Now I understand better certain features of his character because it corresponds
to the characteristic features of his native country.

I was very pleased and it penetrated the intimacy of so many things closely related to my life. It was like
a series of subtle confidence that I initiated in and had been led to understand what it was.
Besides the desire to surround welfare distractions and care, was also the secret desire to
establish between us ties of education, intelligence, sensitivity, almost by birth and parentage,
which had to make our friendship more legitimate, paying who knows how many years old.

Magdalena Complacíame test the effect of certain influences, physical rather than moral, to which
I was continually subject. Put before their eyes some natural scenes, chosen from those who, invariably
consisting of some vegetation, plenty of sunshine and a vast expanse of sea, had the gift to
move me infallible. Observed in what sense could impress, why aspects of poverty or of greatness
might like that horizon always sad. As I was given wondered about the details of sensitivity
all outside. And when he was in agreement with me - that happened much more frequently I would
never have expected - when it sensed the echo entirely accurate, as the moved in unison fiber
vibrating in me, finding an agreement most of which welcomed me as a new alliance.

So I started to see me in many ways she would have suspected without
understanding.

Judging on more or less normal routine of my life was learning quite exactly what was the hidden background
of my nature. My predilections will reveal some of my concerns, and what she described as singularities
more clearly seemed to him discovered as the sources. None of that was the effect of calculation
yielded a result quite ingenuity to not leave room to have to reproach me if there was something
that resembled at the slightest appearance of seduction, but innocently or not this is that I give.
She seemed happy. For my part, thanks to such continuous communications between us created
innumerable connection points, tornábame freer, stronger, more sure of myself in every way; and this
represented a great improvement because Magdalena saw this as a step in the path of openness. This merger
complete, consistent and progressive without an accident lasted two long months. Failure to do
secret wounds, countless, infinite, were nothing compared with the consolations that followed
the cure. In short, I was happy and seemed to be whether that is to live fast, in love with
all his might no cause for repentance and hopeless.

The Lord of Nièvre was a hunter, and he is the subject that I have come to be. He gave me with great cordiality
in the first trials of an exercise class that I liked after to the
passion.

Magdalena and Julia sometimes accompanied us away or we waiting on the shore while we were
making long sweeps toward the sea. Distinguíaselas from afar as bright flowers perched on the boulders
to edge of the blue waves. When incidents of the hunt took us too us away or held until later,
we heard the voice of Magdalena who invited us back. Tan soon appointed to her husband or Oliver
and me. The wind brought us those calls alternating our three names. Pearly notes of that
voice, launched a large space from the sea weakened as they flew over that area without echo;
came to us as a slightly audible murmur and when my name is not distinguished predictable sense
of infinite tenderness and sadness she felt.

Sometimes, and hid the sun we were still sitting on the high on the coast, engaged in do die
at our feet the long waves that came from America. Covered boats crossed the purple glare of
the sun, awash lit lights, headlamps, with lightning flashes and
intervals fixed and the yellow vessels at anchor in the harbor, resinous
those of fishing boats.



¶ Now there was a certain wealthy yeoman whose name was Skeggi (Iron Beard, called they him)
who dwelt at Uphaug in Yriar, and he it was who first spake up against the King at the Thing,
and the cause thereof was because he was the spokesman of the peasantry against Christianity.
But in the manner aforesaid was the Thing brought to an end, and the peasants went to their
homes, and the King across to Ladir.

¶ At this time was King Olaf lying with his ships in the Nid (thirty ships had he, and his
folk were of great prowess) but the King himself was ofttimes at Ladir, being kept company
by his body-guard.

Now when the time appointed for the blood-offering at Maerin was drawing nigh held King Olaf
a mighty feast at Ladir; thither there came to it chieftains and other wealthy peasants from
Strind & from places up in Gauldal, in accordance with the bidding of King Olaf. When all things
were ready and the guests come, there was held on the first evening a large banquet, and the
cups thereat were often charged & men became drunk; that night slept all men there in peace.
On the morrow early, after the King was clad, ordered he Mass to be said, and when the Mass
was ended his men sounded their horns for a house-Thing, and the Thing being established rose
the King to his feet and spake, saying: 'A Thing held we at Frosta, and thereat I bade the
peasantry let themselves be christened; but they in their turn bade me attend a blood-offering
with them, even as the foster-son to King Hakon Adalstein had attended one. And there was accord
betwixt us inasmuch as it was determined that we should meet at Maerin & make a great blood-offering.

But if I am to turn to sacrificing with you, then will I cause to be made the greatest sacrifice
that can be, namely, the sacrifice of men. Just
go to the home of Magdalena and repair your best nonsense that I made yesterday performing
in a public place where she and Julia were my uncle. I was not alone ... It is very possible that
I have seen, because Julia has eyes where I find was not. I appreciate the fact you ensure skillfully
questioning an already another. If what I fear has happened, invents a plausible explanation
that no compromise, if a name, relationships, customs, something in order to recommend to the person
I accompanying, but so that neither my dear cousin and Magdalena can contratorcer information
if you happen to want to check it entered.

That night I saw Magdalena. Was one of his Friday, the day of visits. I decided to meet Oliverio
only mission I had been given. His name was not pronounced. Did not find out, Therefore, anything
positive. Julia was a little indisposed. The night before had a slight high fever as a result
of which was still weak and nervous. I must warn you that the state had long troubled me Julia.
She had done for many I've been thinking in silence because the interest out of concern that little
person, to be very true my affection for her, disappeared - I confess - involved in the movement
rompederos my own selfish head.

You might remember that the very eve of her wedding, talking solemnly about what she designated
by the term of wills, maiden, Magdalena had introduced Julia's name and mine had toyed with
low hopes whose sense was common clear. Then, in Nièvre and in Paris the same suggestion had
been renewed without Julia or I showed you the slightest idea of ​​giving care. One day before
his father who smiled sweetly watching those ingenious trifles took the arm of her sister, and then
bonded to mine We stared with an expression of true joy. We stood in front of her in that attitude
that was extremely embarrassing, and it does not seem to be more agreeable to Julia; then, without
guessing that between her sister and I had more of a hindrance as way that it cancels their
joint projects, as would have been a mother, kissed her tenderly and often saying "Do not separate
us, my dear sister, may we never separate!"

Then - from the day you could wake Magdalena care point to the true state of my feelings - not
a word was back on that case and never had either the slightest indication that he still thought
of Magdalena. On the contrary, if by chance arose the idea of ​​a project that certainly had occupied
in the past, seemed to have given the entirely forgotten or have not ever had. Sometimes, alone,
watching Julia with a tender expression revealing sadness. I drew a result that had vanished
hopes that had been made impossible, and that the future of his sister a time encryption chimeric
combinations, the concern and constituted a new difficulty to solve.

As for Julia, did not have to go that far.

Their feelings, determined from a principle and invariably led to the same object had not wavered.
Only the sensitivities Oliver complained that they approached more and more every day and invariably coincided
with Long considered an absence, a word too strong or a more distracted from his cousin. Altered
her health. Had the same courage worthy her sister that prevented him from complaining; but
did not have the wonderful gift of being charitable to those who hurt, who was outside to the martyrdom
of Magdalena to become sacrifices. It seemed as if the opposite the interest they showed him whoever
he was, except for Oliver that all interests I could hope for was the scarcest. Before the implacable
contempt he had accepted this last to undergo a pity that the offended. His somber to excess presented
from day to day living angles, his face, a gesture more impenetrable, and in all its person
is best defined the look of stubbornness and obstinacy in a fixed idea. Spoke increasingly,
their eyes, no longer to avoid further questioning almost never the answer, seemed that the
only calls they had retreated somewhat mixed live that thought of desires.

- I'm not satisfied with the health of Julia - had told me several times .-- Undoubtedly Magdalena
is delicate and a humor that is displeased with all, even to those
who most want.

God known, however, is not that it lacks the power to become attached to people.

In another era, I would not have spoken Magdalena, indeed, of his
sister in such terms.

Moreover this attribution of excessive tenderness and put those qualities of caring highlighted by
Magdalena, no agreed very well with the coldness of the appearances were of frost Julia ways.

I
was tired of guessing when several incidents not tell you I opened eyes wide. The care that I take
care Oliver therefore had a significance for me very serious, although
he had shown me more than half, as is done with a diplomatic agent
who does not want to find out some secret fund.

I investigated with particular care the origin and time of Julia's indisposition. What I learned
was in full compliance with the reports given by Oliver. Magdalena was mistress of her replies nonchalantly
and spoke of his sister's mouth as a doctor had spoken.

I came home late and found myself waiting up Oliver.

- Well? - I said sharply, as if his impatience had increased suddenly
during my visit.

- Nothing I've found out - I said .-- All I know
is that Julia turned yesterday's concert fever, the fever is very
high and that is sick.

- Have you seen? - Oliver asked.

- No - I
said using a lie, because the need for a little more interest in Julia
ill, very mild indeed.

He made an angry gesture and exclaimed:

- I was sure I saw.

- I
fear - I said.

He took two or three laps around his room walking very fast, then
stopped, hit the swearing her foot.

- Eh, well!

Too bad - he said .-- So much the worse for it! I am free and I do what I please.

I knew all the nuances of the spirit of Oliver, it was rare that came
in spite him to the exasperation of anger.

I did not think, therefore, deceive addressing a case in which was
engaged to a young heart.

- Oliver - I said - what happens between
you and Julia?

- It turns out that Julia is in love with me and I
do not love.

- I knew - I continued, - and the interests of the two
...

- Thank you.

Do not have to haunt for myself for something I did not want, I have
not encouraged or accepted, that never interested me that I am as
indifferent as this - in the air said, shaking the ashes from his
cigar .-- As far as Julia is concerned, you let pity, because it insists
on a crazy idea ... Misfortune makes your pleasure ...

I was exasperated,
spoke very loud and for the first time in his life, perhaps, used
to hyperbole wherein ordinary words used to use diminutives or ideas.

-
What do you want me to do it after all? - Continued .-- It is an absurd
situation: there are other situations that are at least as much as
this.

- Do not talk to me - I said, making him understand that my
own issues were not at stake and recrimination was not proof of being
right.

- Sea, corresponding to that seen in trouble out of them without
taking such other and consult anyone.

Well, well, I have no more than a resource to leave this where I am and that is no, no, always
no.

- What will not repair anything, because you say no since I met you and since I met Julia wants
to be your wife.

Upon hearing that last sentence made a motion and a gesture of true
terror, then launched a laugh that Julia had left dead if he could
hear.

- My wife! - Said with a look of inconceivable disdain for
an idea that seemed insane .-- I am the husband of Julia!

Ah ... But then, Sunday, is that you do not know me better than if
we had met for the first time just minutes ago?

First I'll tell you why I will never marry Julia and then I explain
why I never marry any another, whoever he was.

Julia is my cousin, reason perhaps, that I like a little less that any strange woman. I know
my whole life may be said to have slept in the cradle. There are people which is almost the
seduce fraternity. To me alone idea of ​​marrying a woman whom I have been playing with dolls
so funny I think as attaching two toys. It is beautiful, not stupid,
so has good qualities as you want.

Worshiping despite everything - and God knows if I do I adorable! - Would be constant in every test,
I'd give true worship would be the best of wives.

Being happy would be all sweetness; would become a lovely happy feeling. But I do not love, not
love and I want nothing of it ... If this continues get to hate -
again exasperated said .-- On the other hand, would unfortunate, terribly
unfortunate, will a future!

The day after the wedding would jealous and would not be right. But six months later and it would
be superfluous. And would plant at that point: it would be implacable.

I know myself and I'm sure of that. If this continues, I will go: I flee to the end of the world.
I watched, I follow the steps, you find out that I have loved, and my future wife is my spy.

- You're wrong, Oliver - I said .-- No spy strongly interrupting your steps. No conspires with poor
Julia to take over your will and take her hands and feet tied.

I have not done more to make a wish: that you Julia and I understand a day in that looked for
him in such safe and advantages you do not see anywhere else.

- That to secure advantages Julia and me nothing! Wonderful! ... If that could be your findings
represent my salvation. Well, well, I declare once more that you become instrument of the misfortune
of Julia and that would ultimately avoid a letdown capable of becoming a criminal coward and
kill them. No I love it! Do you want more clearly? But you know what is meant by love or heartbreak:
two opposing ideas under energy equals to the very impossibility of being governed. Try to forget
Magdalena I adore Julia try and see which of them will arrive before the end proposed. Add
my heart up, down, dig in it with the strangest quest, open my veins, and if you find a single
pulse that resembles the sympathy, the slightest rudiment of which to say it can be love someday,
take me to Julia without waiting a moment and I marry her, otherwise I do not talk any more about
that girl I is unbearable y. ..

He stopped, not because they had exhausted their arguments - that he chose a inexhaustible
arsenal - as if suddenly calmed down for an instant reaction on itself. Nothing equaled Oliverio
the fear of appearing ridiculous, the care that had not to say too much or too little, strict
sense of the measure. Warned that listened for a quarter of an hour that was digress.

- Word of honor - he said - fool me again, you make me lose my head.

You're ahead me with the coolness of a confidant of comedy and I seems that I'm giving the show
a tragic farce.

Then he sat in an armchair, was placed in the position of a man who
is prepared not only to rant, but a discourse on ideas and changing
his tone light so quickly and completely as attitudes have changed
and blinking a little, with the smile, continued:

- There may come
to be married.

I think not, but speaking with prudence will tell you, if you want, that in future anything
can be admitted: they have seen amazing conversions. Ring after something that I find. If ever that
something appeared to me as I seduced, adorned with a name that would be a nice partnership with
mine, whatever, on the other hand, the fortune, it could happen to do crazy, because it would
in any case, but she, at least, would be to my liking and I would not have been inspired only by my whim.
At the moment I intend to live my way. The whole question is this: find what should be our way
of being and not copy anyone's happiness. If we were the two switch roles you would not want to
ever represent my own and I would be even more embarrassed me to interpret yours. As much
as you say, to you like novels, complications, rugged situations, you have exactly the force
needed to touch the difficulties without fault and weakness rather delicate flavors anxieties.
You will Procures all extreme emotions, from fear of being a bad
man to the pleasure proud to recognize almost hero.

Your life is drawn, and I see it from here: go up Finally, offer your adventure so far as it can
go without committing an outrage, always cherish the delicious idea of ​​seeing two fingers of
a failure and avoid it. Do you want me to tell you everything? ... Magdalena one day fall
into your arms asking for grace, you will have the unsurpassed joy see a holy creature languor
vanish at your feet you will avoid it - I'm sure - and with a heavy
heart you would leave and mourn his loss for years.

- Oliver - I
said - shut out of respect for Madeleine if you do it for pity on
me.

- I have concluded - replied without the slightest emotion, -
as I say not a reproach, not a threat or a prophecy, it's up to you
to make me wrong.

I just want to show how we differ and convince you that the reason is not from nowhere. I
like to be very clear in my life I have always known what other similar cases and what I risked put
himself at risk.

Fortunately, neither one nor the other hand was exposed anything too precious. I like things
that are decided promptly and in like manner be untied. Happiness the real joy is in me a legend.
The paradise of the world closed in on the steps of our first parents
behold forty-five thousand years that man is complying with semiperfecciones,
semifelicidades and semimedios.

I know the truth of the appetites and the joys of my peers. I am modest, I am deeply humbled by
being nothing more than a man, but I resigned. You know what my big concern? Kill the boredom.
Who was able to make that service to humanity would be the real destroyer of monsters. Coarse and
annoying, all the rude pagan mythology has not just imagined subtle and more frightening. Are
very similar to the one and the other is ugly, flat and pale although they are multifaceted and
life capable of doing nasty ideas from first day when she puts her foot. They are inseparable
and form a couple horrible not everyone sees. Woe to those still young to realize there! ...
I have always known: they were at school, there could you also know you, not left to inhabit
a single day during the three years of vulgarity and meanness that it went through. Sorry to tell
you: Sometimes going to your aunt and my cousins. I had forgotten about living in Paris and
continue fleeing from them, throwing the bustle after the unexpected luxury with the idea that
those two little ghosts bourgeois parsimonious, shy, routine, do not follow me down that road.
The two of them have made many more victims of deadly passions rated: murderers know their
customs and I have to fear ...

This continued speaking in a tone semiseria, exposing ideas that amounted to a confession of irremediable
mistakes and making me vaguely discouraged fear and you know whose solidity.

- Are you going to hear the news of Julia? - I asked.

- Yes, in the anteroom.

- Will see again?

- As little as possible.

- Have you planned what to expect?

- I expected to marry another or remain single.

- Goodbye - I said, but had not yet left my room.

- Goodbye - I replied.

And we broke up after this last word in the background did not affect our friendship, but that
broke everything, no more noise, dryly, as broken glass.

XV

For more than a month that Madeleine had not seen five minutes at no more witnesses and time
still had not found it nothing like their other amenities time. One day I found it by chance on
a deserted street in the neighborhood where I lived. She was alone and was walking. All blood
from his heart flowed into his cheeks when I saw, and I need, of course, of my decision to not
run to meet him and clasp between the arms in the street.

- Where does and where it goes?

This was the first question addressed to you seeing it as lost and
venturing into a part of Paris, which should be the end of the world
for the Countess of Nièvre.

- I'm two steps from here - he replied
with a bit of timidity, - to make a visit.

And he named the person whose house was.

- Whether or not received
- said, - Let us part.

It's good to see we are not together.

Nothing insolent in their procedures.

You have done such crazy things for me to hereinafter to me to be
cautious.

- I leave you - I said waving.

- About - continued Magdalena
at the moment away .-- I go to the theater tonight with my father
and my sister.

There is a place for you if you want.

- Allow me to reflect on ...--
pretending I did not have commitments tonight .-- I am not free.

-
I had thought - added to the sweetness of a child taken into lack
.-- hoped ...

- I absolutely can not - responded with a cold-blooded
cruelty.

It seemed as if returning pleasure caused me a whim and caprice by
torturing.

At night, at half past eight I went in his box. I pushed the door gently as possible, she had
the feeling that I was not affected because even turning his head. Remained occupied entirely
of music, his eyes fixed on the stage. Only when he the first break of the singers could approach her
and forcing her to receive my greeting.

- I come to ask a place
in your box - I said putting half on a lie - unless that this post
is not for Mr de Nièvre.

- The Lord of Nièvre not come - turning
Magdalena said side plates.

He would stage a masterpiece, immortal.

Incomparable singers, who have disappeared, put it transports of
enthusiasm.

The audience burst into frenzied applause.

That wonderful power of music passionately, stirred by hand as the muse of brain heavy hearts
or distracted and reported more insensitive to air viewers of inspired. A tenor, whose name alone
was a prestigious, arrived near the proscenium, two steps away from
us.

It had an attitude when collecting, a bit awkward nightingale going
to sing.

It was ugly, fat, was poorly dressed, unattractive, another similarity with the virtuoso winged.
From the first notes in the room had a slight tremor, like a forest
where the leaves flutter.

I never felt so special as that night, evening last and only when I wanted to hear. Everything
was selected, to the language of fluid, undulating rhyme paid to
the idea crashes sound Italian vocabulary and makes a music book.

Singing the ever tender and plaintive anthem of lovers who wait.

One by one, into melodies never heard, developed all the sadness,
all the heat, and all hopes of hearts very much in love.

One might say that was addressed to Magdalena, so we got her directly
penetrating voice, excited, quiet as if the singer had been confident
heartless of my own pain.

One hundred years have I looked at the bottom of my heart tortured and burned, before finding
a word that were worth a sigh of that melodious instrument said so many things and did not feel
any.

Magdalena listened eagerly.


¶ That same autumn there came to Nidaros from Iceland Kiartan, the son of Olaf Hoskuldson and
the grandson, on his mother's side, of Eigil Skallagrimson, who hath been called the likeliest
man of those born in Iceland.

There was also Halldor the son of Gudmund of Modruvellir, and Kolbein the son of Thord Frey's-priest,
the brother of Burning-Flosi, and fourthly Sverting the son of Runolf the Priest.

These were all heathen, as were many others: some powerful, and others not so powerful. The prosaic ending that you know, is the best result of my story in terms of morality
and perhaps more as an adventure novel. The rest is instructive to anyone, know only shake my
memories. I have not tried to do mystery, believe me, but I talk about it as little as possible
for personal reasons that are nothing like the desire to make me more interesting than I really
am.

Several people are mixed on the facts I will refer you: one is a very old friend - hard to define
and even harder to judge without bitterness - which you have just read the letter farewell and mourning.
Never told about a life that could not please him. Mix in these confidences is almost rehabilitated.
Another, I have it refer to it by putting discretion in my words contained in situations that make
him a public man, or known or probably you will get to know, and I do not diminish in the least
merit revealing to you the modesty of his lineage. As to the third person, whose contact vivid
exerted influence in my youth, is now placed in safety, and neglect of the impossible able to
compare all the memories of that it will talk to you and yours.

I can say that family must have been that my children give me means to assess the sweetness, firmness
that characterize the ties that I missed when I was a child as them. My mother barely had the
strength to nurse and died. My father lived a few years her, but in such miserable condition,
I stopped feeling the influence of his presence many years before losing him. His death is
a fact that strictly speaking I was very before his death. Really, then, I knew no one nor the
other, and the day I I was only wearing mourning for my father, did not appreciate any changes
that would make me suffer. The word orphan, she heard about me repeat, as an expression of misery,
had for me a sense vague: people seeing my service dedicated to pity me, crying, I was realized
it was pitiful, but nothing more.

In the midst of these good people I grew watched from afar by a sister of my father, Ceyssac
lady did not come to settle in Trembles, until the care of my fortune my education and strongly
demanded his presence. Found in me a wild child, uncivilized, in full ignorance, easy to subdue,
difficult to convince, bum in every sense a word, without any idea of ​​discipline and work
and he stayed with his mouth open the first time he heard of the study and use of time, amazed
at the idea that life were not reduced to the fact scamper back and forth across the field.
Until then I had not done anything more than that. The only memories that I had of the existence
of my father were these: In the rare moments that gave him a little rest Disease that consumed
him, left, earned the wall walk outside the park and walked for hours sunbathing, walking painfully
supported by a heavy stick, giving me the impression decrepit old age. Meanwhile I ran across
the field entertaining to build bridges birds. Having received no other lessons, I thought
to mimic, more or less accurately, I had seen my father do. My comrades were all children of
farmers in the vicinity or too lazy to go to school or too young to work the land, and all They
encouraged me by example to live without the least worry of the future. Education I was nice, the
one teaching that drove me to rebel, and you look But all he had to give lasting and positive
fruits of them suited me. Came to me confused, by rote, knowledge of that portion of little things
that are facts and science and the charm of country life, and to take advantage of such teaching
all the skills I had Desirable: robust health, villager's eyes, that is, a wonderful sight, hearing accustomed
very early to perceive the slightest noise, tireless legs, and with all this great love of things
that happen outside, seen, heard, just like by what is read and an insatiable curiosity regarding:
the wonderful stories contained in books interest me much less than the fables and superstitions
put well above local fairy tales.

Ten years I looked at all the kids in Villanueva knew as much as any them, and something less than
their parents, but among them, and I had an imperceptible difference then suddenly it was determined
later: the existence and the facts that we were common feelings that
caused me not feel them.

Thus, it is clear to me, when I remember, the pleasure of putting traps set along the booths,
to spy on birds was not what captivated me most in the game, and proves that the only living
witness some I have left of those is the vision of ambushes continuous net of certain places,
the notion Precise time and season and to the perception of certain noises. Perhaps you judge too
childish that I remember that thirty-five years, one day he raised my traps in a recently tilled
field, doing this or that time, the doves September crossed with a very loud flapping of wings,
and the plain around the mills Wind expected to bare the wind blades that never came. I could
not tell me, how is a peculiarity of such trivial value could be fixed in my memory with accurate
data the year to the day, to the point of finding their place in this moment the conversation
of a mature man that already, and cite this fact - as you would with many others - only I intend
to point out to you that something was clear and my outer life and was special memory in me
some very insensitive to the impression of the facts, but of singular ability to set the memory
of sensations.

What had to be more positive - especially for those who my future could be care - is that this way
of living healthy and invigorating misnamed, was a terrible form of education.

No matter how carefree I was, and codeándome tuteándome village with
comrades in the background I was alone: ​​it was just my race, one
of my rank, and disagree, for many concepts, with the future than
I expected.

I'm linking to people who could be my server, not my friends, I rooted
inadvertently God knows how tough fibers, in places that would leave
as soon as possible; assuming, in short, practices that lead not only
to make me the person ambiguous you will learn later, half peasant,
half-dilettante, as soon as a another, and often each other without
ever prevail either.

My ignorance, as said, was extreme, my aunt realized this and hurried to bring Trembles a tutor,
a young school teacher Ormesson. It was a well-made spirit: simple, Discreet, accurate, nurtured by
reading, taking a view on all things, provisions to proceed, but
never before have discussed the reasons for their actions, very practical
and force very ambitious.

No one like him I've seen come into life with less ideal and more blood cold, and appreciate
your destination with strong visual counting on fewer resources. Her eyes franca, the free gesture,
the word net, and exactly the appeal, the kind and talent are needed to slide imperceptibly
into the masses and impose. A similar nature, in absolute opposition to the mine, was the
most appropriate to make me suffer, but I must add that, in addition to being really good, had
a spirit of righteousness foolproof. Appeared more than thirty years, though only twenty-four,
and his name was Augustine, a name that will use to designate it, until further notice.

As soon as he settled between us changed my life, in the sense that at least She made two parts.
Do not quit of habit, but I was imposed others. I had books, books of study, hours of work with
my hobby that grew to distractions allowed at intervals dedicated to recreation, and what I can
call it my passion for the field increased the need for entertainment.

The house was then Trembles as you see it. Need more happy or more sad? ... Children have a predisposition
to brighten and enhance their surroundings in terms later everything gets smaller and becomes
sad for no apparent reason and just because the spotlight is not the same. Andres - who you know
and who has not left the house for sixty years, I have repeated many
times then everything happened more or less as now.

The mania contracted early to write my initials and commemorative stamps affixed for anything,
it could serve to correct my memory if they were not complete and infallible. At times, you
understand, the long years that separate me from the time that I'm talking away, forgetting
that I have lived since that time and circumstances I have imposed more serious care, have created
different causes of joy and sadness and tenderness established reasons
much more serious: it's like an old trap into which it falls back,
and allow me to grace this picture is a little consistent with what
I feel like an old wound and completely healed, but sensitive, suddenly
revived, and hurts when touched and makes her scream.

Imagine you before entering in the school, which was later, not a day that I stopped watching
tower that stands far away, living in the same places and observing the same customs, and understand
now find that things be and then in the same state that knew and loved, keep loving them. You
know, not one of the memories of that time has been erased - tell moreover, - none of them has
weakened and will not cause surprise that talking wander reminiscences that have the power
to rejuvenate the point of turning child. There are names particular places, I could never pronounce
in cold blood, and the Trembles is one of them.

Even you know these places as well as I, it is very difficult to come to understand to what extent
I was delicious: we all were to me, to the garden, I you see, is rather modest. Trees were
in it, oddly enough all around, and many birds in them because the trees are attracted to and
could not find elsewhere, were also in it, order and disorder, sanded walks leading to the gates
of entry and flattered I always had a desire for the places where one can reason with a device;
walks in which the ladies from another era would have been able to deploy their dresses of
ceremony; dark corners, wet woods, barely penetrated by the sun, in which all years grew the green
grass on the spongy ground, solitary places visited only by me, offering some aspect of old
age and neglect and were full of memories. Gustábame sit on the beds that limit the ways and
inform me of the age of the shrubs villages, all very old, so much so that Andrew assured that neither
my father nor my grandfather and my great grandfather had seen the plant. In the evenings, from
the top of the house looked the garden at the corner of the park with almond trees whose leaves
early tore September wind, forming transparent rare flaming sky background staining by the
red flashes of the sun.

In the park there were many white trees, ash and laurels in which lived a multitude of thrushes
and blackbirds throughout the autumn, and further highlighted a group of old oak - the tree
that sheds the last and yields the first, that even in December retained its red leaves, when all
the woods seemed dead, that asylum in their nests to the magpies and offered high place rest
to high-flying birds, in whose branches perched crows early winter attracted to the country.

Each season brought us their guests and each chose the most suitable accommodation: Spring birds
in the trees in bloom, the fall a little higher, the winter in the bush, in groups of evergreens,
in the oaks and laurels. Sometimes, in winter, in the morning, a rarest bird flying in a very
cozy lonely forest, his flight was noisy, clumsy, but fast, it was a woodcock, partridge arrival
at night, hitting up the wing with bare branches of trees and glided between them, just saw
you a moment, the time needed to show its beak long and straight. Then not meet again until
next year around the same time and on-site same, to the point that it seemed to be returning migrants.

The
doves came in May, while the hoopoe or cuckoos. On clear nights could hear her cooing and warm,
soft and slow, when in the air had a whiff of youth seemed to exhale from the active expansion
of new blood. Deep in the bush on the edge of the garden, white cherry, in the privet in flower,
linden trees loaded aroma bouquets, all night - during those long nights when I slept little,
when or sometimes the moon shone rain fell slow, hot, silent, like tears of joy, - for my delight
and my torment nightingales twittering or not. Callahan if the weather was gloomy, and if
the sun shone restart their trills promising next summer. After raising are no longer heard.
And often, in late June, when the sun burned in the bush the wood used to find a dumb bird, dark,
bewildered, who wandered hovering just from branch to branch: it
was the bird of spring left us.

In the countryside, meadows, close to ripe, yellow, the older branches crackled; vines showing
their first buds. The corn, still green, stretched in the distance by the plain, wavy, dyed
red amaranth. An endless world of insects, butterflies, birds are stirring, under that sun multiplied
June indescribable expansion of life. The swallows flew into the air, and at night, when the
swifts ceaselessly pursued shrill shrieks, came the bat, and that rare swarm seemed revived in the
warm nights, began his round of flutter uncertain housing. Since I began harvesting hay field
life was constant party.

It was the first collective work required to meet in the same place many groups of workers.

I was present when the scythe the grass, when stacked the hay and enjoyed leaving bring about a wagon
back to town. Lying on top of the enormous burden as a child in a large bed, lulled by the gentle
movement of the vehicle rolling on the grass cut, watched from usually higher than a horizon that
seemed infinite. Saw the sea stretching out of sight, above the green line fields grown, the birds flew
close to me experienced the feeling of an environment wider a wider extension that made me
lose for a moment the notion of life real.

Just fodder harvested the wheat began to yellow. And they reproduced the same labor movement as warm
season under the sun more alive, with strong alternatives calm winds
or atmospheric heat produced dreadful days and nights as auroras,
precursor days of storms in the atmosphere, full of irritating electricity,
reacted spectacularly.

Less intoxicated and more abundance, harvest beams falling on the ground tired produced and consumed
by the sun: this is the summer. The fall of our country already knows you, is the holy season.
After winter, the circle of the year closing on him. Then lived more in my room, my eyes,
always alert, be exercised in entering the mists of December and the thick curtains of rain
that covered the countryside of a broad darker than the frost.

When the trees were completely stripped of their leaves covered best extension I the park. Nothing
exalted him as much as the winter mist in a blue veil covering the remoteness and distorting
the exact notion of the distance. None or very little noise, but each more obvious note, at
night, especially, extreme sound in air.

The song of a Finch stretched endlessly in malls deserted and silent, without hindrance to vibration,
moist air embedded and imbued with silence. The gathering then falling over Trembles was inexplicable
for four winter months condensed, concentrated, recorded indelibly in my mind that world winged,
subtle, visions and gifts image noise and had lived for the remaining eight months of the
year with an activity resembled both a dream.

Augustine then gripped me. The station helped him: she belonged almost expiated everything and
the best possible long neglect of so many days without a job.

But even without profit? ...

Not very sensitive to things around us, while his disciple was absorbed to the point in them,
quite indifferent to the course of the stations was the wrong month misrepresenting the time, invulnerable
to many sensations of which I was shot, deliciously hurt in my whole being, cold, methodical and
as correct and consistent humor mine was uneven, Augustine lived at my side without worrying
about what was happening in me and suspect even. Leaving little, rarely leaving his room where
he worked from morning at night and only allowed to rest in the summer nights are veiled and
not because he lacked daylight. Reading, taking notes, for months and months I saw him write
prose and more often many things at dialogue.

Served a timetable to choose a series of names own. The patterns in a list with notes, were
assigned an age, noted the physical traits of each character, some originality, a rarity, something
ridiculous. Staff was imagined for dramas or comedies. He wrote very fast, with a calligraphy
symmetrical, very clear, and issued the letters appeared in a low voice. Sometimes, when a acute
observation came from the pen, smiling, and after a paragraph long and compact in which one of his characters
had spoken at length, reflected a moment as if to take breath, and oíale I whisper, "Let's
see, what do we reply?" And when I came the desire to make confidences, I called and told me:
"Hey this Sunday gentleman." Rare times to understand it. How could I became interested in
people issues who did not know to whom he had never seen?

All the complications of different stocks as well foreign to me, I thought it belonged to an
imaginary society in which damned if he wanted to penetrate.

- I understand you later - said Augustine.

Well I reached that delight both locked up for my young tutor, was the show the game of life,
the mechanism of feelings, conflict of interests, ambitions, vices, but, I repeat, for me it
was irrelevant whether the world was like a big board chess - as Augustine said, - that life was a
game played better or worse and had rules for that game.

Augustine often wrote letters and received, many stamped in Paris. These were which opened in
a hurry and read with great interest, his face animated with emotion - he than usual was so discreet
- and the arrival of these letters was always followed by a depression that lasted only a few
hours or for an animation and a verbosity extraordinary that persisted for many weeks.

Once or twice I saw him do a package of some papers, locked in a self-addressed to Paris and
return it with a special recommendation to the mail clerk in Villanueva. Then we noticed that
he looked feverish anxiety response came not long, apparently. Then again began to fill pages,
as a break that goes from one to another groove. He got up very early, and hastened to undertake
the work as if someone forced or had taken a piece, went to bed very late and never approached
the window to find out if it rained or was sunny, I am sure that he left knowing that Trembles
in turrets had weather vanes, constantly agitated, which marked changes
in wind direction and alternately around some atmospheric influences.

-
What does it matter to you that? - Used to tell me when I saw that
I was worried about the wind.

Thanks to a prodigious activity which is not affected his health and
his apparent natural element, provided everything: her job and mine.

I immersed myself in the studio, forcing me to read and reread the books, requiring me to interpret,
analyze, copy, and do not let me out to outdoors more than was stunned when he warned that because
of the violent dive in a sea of ​​words.

Under his direction and care I learned quickly - and in truth without
great difficulty - all to know about a child whose future is not defined,
but who wants to do, for now, a schoolboy.

Its purpose was to shorten the school year preparing as quickly as possible for college.

So it was four years, after which it considered that was already in a position to address secondary
education, and with inconceivable horror I saw approaching the moment of leaving Trembles my house.


Thereafter did King Olaf launch the 'Long Serpent' & all his other ships great & small; and
the 'Long Serpent' he himself steered, and when men were taken for a crew, with so much care
was choice made that on the 'Long Serpent' was there no man older than sixty nor younger than
twenty. All were chosen with the utmost care for their strength and courage, & the first taken
were King Olaf's body-guard, for composed it was of the stoutest & boldest men both from home
and abroad.

¶ Wolf the Red was the name of the man who bore the banner of King Olaf, and his place was
in the prow of the 'Serpent'; there likewise were Kolbiorn the Marshal, Thorstein Ox-foot and
Vikar of Tiundaland, the brother of Arnliot Gellini. Of the forecastle in the prow were Vak
Raumason of the River, Bersi the Strong, On the Archer of Jamtaland, Thrond the Stout from
Thelemark and Othyrmi his brother; and the Halogalanders Thrond Squint-eye, Ogmund Sande, Lodvir
the Long, from Saltvik, and Harek the Keen.

From Inner Throndhjem were there Ketil the Tall, Thorfin Eisli, and Havard and his brothers
from Orkadal. Julia took care of the child and had, so to speak, adopted had died
the day before evening. Magdalena was driving near the coffin containing the little corpse and
tried to kiss him, to return wept and repeated the phrase my child with acute pain as I announced
far and wide scope of a gnawing pain that their existence and which was bitterly jealous.

I left early and went to Julia M. D'Orsel words of thanks which I tried say with the greatest serenity
possible. Then, not knowing how to fill the day and not having interest, so to speak, in the
use of a life that I felt detached from minute to minute, I went to put her elbows on the railing
that fell on the trenches and stayed there do not know how time. I did not know where it was Magdalena.
From time to time I could hear his voice in view corridors or moving from one court to another,
it also wandering without purpose other than to move. There at the base of one of the turrets
in the manner of a cave half blocked in other times served as a door to escape. The bridge that
linked the park rides was destroyed. It were not more than three pillars, partly submerged, the
muddy water soiled waste pit sparkling. I do not know what idea came to hide there for the rest
of the day. I went from one to another pillar and hid in that room dilapidated, foot tapping
the current in the dismal gloom of the vast and deep pit where the water ran laundry. Two or three
times I saw Magdalena came out and marched to the malls as who is looking for someone. Disappeared
and returned again, hesitated between three or four roads leading from the parterre to the
confines of the park and finally took one of them covered elms, which ended in ponds. I spent
a jump from one to the other side and followed her. Was quickly, his secured bad field hat over
his ears, wrapped in a cashmere wide that hugged the body like you have very cold. He turned
his head to see that I approached suddenly turned and retraced his steps, passed me without looking
at winning the steps of and rose parterre. I caught when he reached the door of the parlor that
served as a toilet in which I used to spend the day.

- You help me fold my shawl - I said.

He was the soul and eyes elsewhere. The wide color fabric was folded with us in the direction
of its length and it was not just a narrow band which each we held one end. Either by apathy
or weakness, the garment is slipped through Magdalena hands. He took a step backwards first staggered,
then fell forward and fainted in my arms. I grabbed it, held it a few seconds so glued to my chest,
head back, eyes closed, cold lips, half dead and alienated the influence my kisses.

Suddenly a terrible contraction shook her, opened his eyes, sat up on the tip toes to reach up
and throwing my arms around my neck with all her strength she went to turn kissed me.

I grabbed her again, reduced it to defend himself like a dam that is being discussed against a desperate
embrace. He had the notion that we were lost and cried. I feel ashamed to say it: that cry of
agony awakened in me that I was just instinct of man's mercy. I realized that the killing, did
not distinguish whether it was his honor or his life. I have no why boast of an act of generosity
that was almost involuntary, so small a part you it corresponded to the true human consciousness.
I dropped the dam as a beast that has stopped biting. The dear victim made a supreme effort.
Work was useless: I do not already had. Then with a loss that has made me estimate what is
the remorse of a honest woman with a fear that I would have tried, had I been in a position
to reflect what degree of relaxation I saw her small, as if she understood instinctively that there
was for us or discernment of duty, no consideration or respect, that this sympathy of pure instinct
was just an accident that could deny, with a gesture that startled me, that still surrounds
these old memories in a world of terror and shame, Magdalena moved quickly toward the back
door without walking away Me eyes, as we proceed with a criminal, he won the aisle and once
again he and ran.

I had lost consciousness while I remained standing.

As I dragged myself to my room, only had one desire, that I found collapsed on the stairs.
Arrived I had my door, even before opening it, and I was unable to sustain more. Mechanically,
I made sure nobody was in the corridor. The last sentiment that still retains a moment was
that Madeleine was safe, and I collapsed on the floor.

Right there I recovered one or two hours, at night, with the memory inconsistent a dreadful
scene. The bell announced that dinner was ready and had to go down. I moved, his legs were
free, but it seemed as if he had been struck in the head. Thanks to that paralysis, very real, he
felt a general feeling of great sorrow, but not thought about it. The first mirror which looked
at me, showed me the face strangely a haggard ghost, something like that could hardly recognize
me. Magdalena did not attend the dining room and I was almost immaterial whether it was or
elsewhere. Julia, tired, sorry or worried about her sister, and probably full of suspicion, because in
that case unique clairvoyant girl and reserved all the assumptions were allowed. Julia was not
not join us in the lounge. I had therefore only to Mr. D'Orsel, nearly half of the evening, was
inert, insensible, and as if I had frozen the blood, so little sense to think I was so exhausted
and was force to move.

It was about ten when he entered Magdalene, changed to be scary, unknown, with aspect of a convalescent
to whom death has touched.

- My father - said with a tone of unyielding courage .-- I need to
be alone for a moment with M. de Bray.

Mr. D'Orsel rose without hesitation, he kissed his daughter and fraternal
left.

- Do you leave tomorrow? - I said, standing as I was too.

-
Yes - I answered.

- And we will not see each other again!

Nothing I said.

- Never - continued - what do you mean? ever. I put the only obstacle between us that no idea
can separate return.

I threw myself at her feet, took his hands without resist, sobbing. Had a moment of weakness that
cut him short, took his hands and give me them back as soon as there regained its strength.

-
I will do my best to forget. You olvídeme. That will be easier still. Get married, later,
when you want.

Do not imagine that his wife might be jealous of me because when that might happen I'll be dead or I
will be happy - concluded with a thrill that before was not brought
down .-- Farewell.

I was kneeling, arms outstretched, waiting for a sweeter phrase that she uttered. A last reaction
of weakness or pity snatched.

- My poor friend! Achieve this was fatal. If you knew how much I love him! I would not told
you yesterday, today I can confess because it is the forbidden word
between us.

She recently was exhausted, had found a miracle I do not know what that resource under lent strong
enough. I had none.

I think that even added two or three words that I did not understand,
then walked away sweetly as a vision that fades away and not see her
again, or that night or the next day or anymore.

At daybreak I left without seeing anyone.

Avoided through Paris and became lead directly home that lived in a suburb far Augustine. It
was Sunday and found him with his family.

At first glance I realized that something terrible had happened. Assumed that there Magdalena died
because his perfect honesty of a man and husband, could not conceive of greater misery. When
I told him the true accident that reduced me to one of those situations that are not never confess,
I said:

- I do not know that kind of punishment, but I pity you with all my heart.

And I never doubted that I was sorry from the bottom of the heart, little to reason about worst
disasters that could assume the uncertain future of his own life.

He worked when he was surprised. His wife was near him in her lap a little boy six months had
been born during my exile. They were happy. His situation was thriving: I could see several signs
of relative affluence. The night was terrifying: a storm end of autumn lasted without interruption
from the afternoon until after dawn. In the monotonous lullaby of that constant and long sound
of the wind and rain, but did not think in the tumult that occur
around the room and the dream of Magdalena, where he slept.

My strength was not thinking beyond the puerile and purely physical sense. Dissipated the storm, Augustine
forced me out since the morning. Could have an hour before to return to Paris. I took the forest, ravaged
by the night wind, the water ran trails still flooded and swept the last leaves of the year.

And walked a long time before I could pick the shade of a lucid idea
among urgent determinations had led me to the home of Augustine.

I remembered to order I had to say goodbye to him. At first he thought it was a desperate resolution
born from insomnia, do not resist the action of prudential considerations, but, when became
convinced that my determination dated back further, which was the result of reflections no reply
and that would take place later or earlier, and did not discuss or opinion that I myself had formed,
and the trial that had formed on my time and I simply said

- I think and reason about more or less like you. I admit not much but I do not think much lower
than most people, but I have no right you have to be consistent to
the extreme.

You defects modestly, I'm staying, not bragging but by necessity
and before that as a duty.

- I am very tired and need rest anyway.

We parted in Paris saying "au revoir" as is usually done when cost
much effort to pronounce a final farewell, but provide neither the
place nor the time we could meet again.

I had few issues to fix and charge them my servant. I was only to say goodbye to Oliver. He
was preparing to leave France. I asked about my stay in Nièvre: just me had guessed that all
was over.

There was no reason to speak of Julia, he did not need to say anything
about Magdalena.

The ties that had joined us for about ten years had just broken at the same time at least for
a long time.

- Try to be happy - I said, as if not count on it for me or for him.

Three days after my departure was Ormesson Nièvre. I spent the night near Mrs. of Ceyssac, to
which my back made it clear many things and made me understand that there often regretted my
mistakes with the tender pity pious woman and almost mother.

The next day, not take me an hour's rest in this deplorable race I leading to litter like a wounded
animal that bleeds and does not falter in the middle of way, the next day afternoon, almost into
the night, I came to Villanueva. I got out near and the village: the car continued down the
road and I took a road trip that took me my home in the marshes.

For four days and four nights a restraining fixed pain my heart and eyes were as dry as if he
had never cried. By taking the first step on the road had Trembles as a resurgence of memories
that pain was most intense, but less tight.

It was very cold.

The ground was hard, night had almost closed, so that the line the
coast and the sea horizon formed a single compact and almost black.

A last residue red light was dying slowly and pale minute by minute.

In the distance, near the escarpment, he spent a wagon; perceived the clatter and rattling
of the wheels on the frozen soil. The water of the marsh was frozen, and only in some places, wide
puddles fresh water was not frozen yet, still moving slowly and remained whitish. The clock
struck six of the Church of Villanueva. So deep was the silence and and darkness, which seemed
to midnight.

He walked over the ridge of land flooded and not know why I was reminded
of another time on those sites themselves and nights like he had hunted
ducks.

Heard above my head that produce rapid whisper these birds flying
very fast.

I saw a flash and the explosion of a shot stopped me.

A hunter came out of hiding, down to the marsh and I heard the splashing of his feet in the water,
another spoke.

In that brief exchange of words spoken quietly, but that night made
it very clear, I made a tone of voice that impressed me.

- Andrew!
- I cried.

There was a moment of silence.

- Andrew! - I cried again.

- What? - I replied the hunter. And I could not hesitate.

Andrew took a few steps toward me. I looked barely even exceeded almost his whole body the dark
ravine. Moved slowly, almost in the dark, trod that way by the legs of the animal, repeating, "Who's
there? Who calls me? "With increasing emotion and as if each moment hesitate to acknowledge at least
calling him when I thought so far.

- Andrew! - I told him a third time when he had given no more than two or three steps.

- How? What? ... Ah, sir, Mr. Domingo! - Said dropping his gun.

- Yes, I am, myself, my old Andrew.

I threw myself into the arms of my old server. At last my heart so much compression, by itself, v
burst into tears freely dilated.

XVIII

Dominic had finished his story. Stopped after these last words, spoken with the precipitation of
a man who is quick and saddened that expression of modesty that generally follows the expansions
too intimate. What similar confidences must have cost a gloomy consciousness for so long closed,
and I adivinábalo thanked him with a gesture which touched only answered him with a nod. He
had opened the letter from Oliver as funeral presided farewell, so
to speak, of this relationship and was standing, eyes turned to the
window which was framed in a peaceful horizon of plain water.

Remained so for some time keeping awkward silence that I would not
break.

He was pale, his face slightly impaired by fatigue or rejuvenated by the passionate splendor of
another era, gradually regained their age, their peculiar expression and appearance of great serenity.
The day went as peace was established memories also on his face. The shadows were invading the
dusty interior of the little drowned room where they ended that long series of evocations of
which more than one had been painful. From the inscriptions on the
wall and could not tell much of anything. Image inside as well as
the former pale at the same time as if all that past resurrected accidentally
re-entered the moment and not go out in the vague fading of the night
and forgetting.

The voices of the farmers who passed along the walls
of the park took us to two from a real trouble, doubt, shut up or
resume a truncated conversation.

- This is the time to get down -
said Sunday, and followed him to the farm in which each evening at
that hour care monitoring was complete.

The oxen were returning from
work and this was the time when the farm is encouraged. Yoked two
or three couples, for because of the weight of wet lands was necessary
triple yoke, rudder came dragging the plow, his nose swollen and wet
low horns, jaws rough, muddy even in the womb. Stock animals who had
not worked one day, bellowed in the stables waiting for the arrival
of its assets peers. Beyond the flock of sheep, and locked up, stirred
in the corral, horses pawing and neighing to feel that the crop fell
on the stairs above mangers.

Workers lined up next to the master,
bareheaded and looking tired.

Sunday carefully inquired if any new
farm implements application had yielded the expected results, then
gave his orders for the next day, the multiple, especially with reference
to seed, and I realized that not all grain whose distribution pointed
out, was destined to their own fields, had long lost, advances made
or alms. King Svein and those of his company who could escape made
what way they could to other of his ships and thereon drew thence out of bow-shot, and so it
came to pass that it fared with this fleet even as King Olaf Tryggvason had foretold.

Then Olaf, he that was King of the Swedes, brought his ships up into the self-same places left
by those of Svein, but natheless hardly was he come nigh to the big ships than it went with
him the same as with the others; even so that lost he many men and some of his ships, and thereafter
he too drew back. But Earl Eirik laid his bearded ship alongside the outermost ship of King
Olaf & with fierceness cleared it, and straightway cut it adrift from its lashings; then went
he alongside the one that was next, and with it fought until that too was cleared. Then fell
the crews to escaping from the lesser ships on to those that were larger; but cut the Earl
every ship from its lashings even as soon as it was cleared, & thereon came up once more from
all sides Danes and Swedes into the battle over against the ships of King Olaf. Eirik the Earl
lay ever alongside one or other ship fighting thus in hand to hand fight, and as the men fell
on his ship, Danes and Swedes, other true men took their place. Thus saith Halldor:

  'Of sharp swords the brunt
  O'er the "Long Serpent" went;
  There golden spears did clash
  And the men fought long,
  In battle of foemen
  Went forth to the south
  Men of Sweden against him,
  And Danish swordsmen doughty.'

¶ Then waxed the battle very fierce, and men fell thick and fast, and so at the end befell
it that all the ships that pertained unto King Olaf were cleared save and except the 'Long
Serpent,' & by that time all those of his folk who were still able to bear arms were come aboard
of her. And perhaps the anger was what saved me. She gave me energy to react
and adopt an extreme party. That same day I wrote two or three letters saying as I left Paris. I
moved home, went to hide in a remote neighborhood, call my rescue what was left of reason,
intelligence and love of good, and I began again a new probationary period did not know, but
in any case should be the last.

XVI

This change came in the overnight and it was radical. It was not the time to falter and cool.
Had a horror of half-measures. I liked the fight. Superabundant energy me. Rejected in part,
my will was in need of turning in another sense, find a new obstacle to overcome in a few hours,
so to speak, and jump on it. The time seemed eternal to me. Apart from any question of time I
felt, if not old, to least very mature. I was not a teenager who stabs the child despite all painful,
the soft slopes of youth. It was a proud man, impatient, wounded, pricked by the desires and sorrows,
that dropped suddenly in the prime of his life - as a soldier at noon on the final day - with
hearts full of grievances, bitter soul by impotence, brain exploding
project.

I did not set foot in the world, at least in that part of society where risked notice and find me
memories that I had been tempted. I also locked too narrow because it would have drowned, but I
was confined in a circle of men activities, studies, special, lost, enemies of chimeras, which
were devoted to science, to scholarship or art as that which created Florentín naive perspective
and at night woke his wife to say, "How sweet is the perspective!" distrusted wanderings of the
imagination and put in order. As for my nerves, I had carefully so voluptuously until then,
were punished in the most rude for contempt all that is ill and the
firm intention of not more than the estimate that is robust and healthy.

The

moonlight on the Seine, the sun sweet dreams at the window, walks under the trees, discomfort
or welfare caused by a sunbeam or a raindrop, the roughness of the genius that caused me a little
air and good living thoughts that inspired the absence of wind, all that softness of heart,
that slavery the spirit, those feelings were considered exorbitant and the examination was decreed they
were unworthy of a man, and broke all those ice wrapped around me in a tissue influences and
weaknesses.

It was a very active life. He read widely. I wasted, I economized. The feeling sacrifice repellent
was combined with the attraction of a duty that had to be filled with about myself. This got
some satisfaction that it was dark joy, unless still full, but that much resembled what should
be the haughty pleasure of a monastic vow well done. There was nothing childish deemed that a reform
that was so serious because and could have a serious result. I did my reading of what he had
made thousand other things, considering them important food of my spirit, expunged. He no
longer felt the need for clarification on matters of the heart. It was not worth to recognize
gripping book when he fled from myself. I had to find better or worse, if better the election was unnecessary
and, worse, was an example that should be sought. I was, so to speak, a kind of healthy library
between human talent that has left more bracing, more pure, from the moral point of view,
more exemplary in terms of reasoning. Finally, Magdalena had promised to test my strength
and wanted to keep my promise if only to show potential in me without a job and that could While measuring
the duration and energy of an ambition that was ultimately become more than love.

After several months of this inflexible system, I came to a artificial
condition and strength of spirit that seemed appropriate to undertake
a lot.

I started to pay off my accounts with the past. You know who had the mania of the verses. Whether
for pleasure involuntary nice day and longed for, either by greed, I did not want that part
of living of my youth was entirely destroyed. I set myself the task of stirring that old code of childish
things and feelings just awakened. It was a sort of general confession Forgiving, but firm, without
any danger to a consciousness that is judged. Of those countless sins of another age I wrote two
volumes. I put a title that determined the character a little spring of the work. I led with
a preface by the ingenious to be, at least, put under cover of ridicule and posting without a signature.
Appeared and disappeared. I did not expect more of them. I did nothing to save them from total
oblivion, convinced that everything is deserves to be abandoned and that there is a real ray of
sunshine lost in the universe.

Made this scan of conscience, I cared for less frivolous tasks.

It was so much policy everywhere and particularly in the middle observer that I acted. Had in
environment at that time a multitude of ideas in a state of nebulous state problems of hope,
generosity to be moving later condense and form what now called the stormy sky of modern politics.

My
imagination almost treeless, but not entirely off, something was in that goal the seduced.
The position of a statesman was - at the time that I speak to you,
- the crowning necessary, to some extent, the advent of man the title
useful for all one who had great intellectual ability, talent or simply
genius.

I fell in love the idea of ​​becoming useful after being harmful so long. And the ambition to
be I also illustrate invaded little by little - but, God knows what - I started to do a kind
stay in the same lobby of public affairs, is among a small parliament composed of young ambitious
minds of very young abnegations willing to volunteer, which were reproduced in a diminutive
part of the controversial depleting then all of Europe. Achieve success, I can say without pride
that our parliament today it is forgotten. It seemed that my path was laid out. It was deployed
through consuming activity that consumed me. I do not know what I was hoping unbeatable again
to find Madeleine. "I had said goodbye or au revoir? I would better understand transformed, with
a live brightness to ennoble my position. Everything was mixed well between stimuli that stung
me. The bitter memory of Magdalena hummed in the background of my ambitions and had moments
where I was given no distinction in my dreams premature of power, what emanated from the philanthropist
and what came from love.

All those ideas and feelings summarized in a book that appeared under an assumed name. A few
months later published another. The two had more resonance than I expected. Before long I almost
changed into a celebrity see the darkness in which it was. Savored with delight the pleasure vain,
sneaky and quite intimate, hear me praise in personality my pseudonym.

The day's success was undeniable I took my two books to Augustine. I wholeheartedly embraced, told
me that he had great talent, was amazed that he had suddenly revealed as soon as I predicted
and infallible thing, a moral position capable go mad. Magdalena I decided that he enjoyed the first
omens of my celebrity and you I sent my books to Mr de Nièvre. He begged that I did not treason gave
explanations I retired plausible: it was excusable since the time it was shown that had an object.

The
reply of Mr. de Nièvre contained only words of thanks and praise modeled on those who ran
the public. Magdalena did not add a word to those of the husband.

The slight confusion in my spirit that followed the happy beginning of my literary life vanished very
quickly. The excitement aroused by early production, drawn, almost unthinkingly, came a great calm,
that is, a moment of serenity and singularly lucid examination.

There was an old me who I very long time ago and do not talk to you, silent but surviving.
He took that moment of rest and reappear using a severe language. With the encroachments of
my heart I had completely emancipated.

He returned to take his high position as it was more controversial issues and was deliberating coldly
more positive interest in my spirit. In other words, calmly analyzed what a legitimate lay at the bottom
of my success, and precise conclusion was that considers if it was reason to cheer. I did the
balance - very definitive - of my knowledge, ie acquired resources and my gifts, or what is
the same, my driving forces, I compared the fictitious with native weighed that belonged to everyone
and how little I had my own. The result of this criticism fair, made as methodically as a liquidation
business was that I was a distinguished man and mediocre.

He had suffered cruel disappointments: this one did not cause me the slightest bitterness.
On the other hand, if it was just such disappointment. For many would have been more than satisfactory
that situation. I felt very differently. That little monster called modern Oliverio "Vulgar",
which caused much horror and led him you know where, I knew I as well as it under another name. Lived
so well in the region of ideas as in the lower world of facts. He had been the genius villain of
all time and was a wound of ours.

There were around me a perversion of ideas on which he never had me fooled. I revolted against
the flattery, after all, could not and change my mind in any case: welcomed the trial as an innocent
expression public at a time when the abundance of mediocrity had become indulgent taste blunting
the steely sense of higher things. The opinion seemed perfectly fair As for me, although I
do while my process is also yours.

I remember one day I tried a test more convincing than all the others. I took my library number
of contemporary books and proceeding more or less as posterity shall before the end of the century,
has asked each of their titles to the duration and especially the right they had to be called
useful. I noticed that very little filling the first condition a work that gives life, were
hardly necessary. Many had served as a temporary diversion his contemporaries no other result than to
please and be forgotten. Some had a false aspect of need deceived
watched closely, but it will define future.

A very small number - I was afraid - had that rare, absolute and unquestionable character, which
is recognized in all divine and human creation, it can be imitated but not supplied and be required
to the needs of the people if it is absent. That kind of posthumous trial exercised by the most
unworthy of so many spirits elected, I showed that I would not ever the number of those acquitted
of guilt and sorrow. One who took in his boat meritorious men certainly would have left me on
the other side of the river, and she stayed.

Once again attracted the attention of the public my name or at least my imaginary character
and was the last. I wondered what it was that I had to do and I took some time to resolve. Had
for that one major difficulty. Detached from my life many links - as you have seen - and disillusioned
many errors and no more hanging that the balance, which, although horribly stretched and stronger
than ever, still holding on and never imagined that nothing could break it.

And hardly heard anyone talk about other than Magdalena Oliver, whom he saw very little, and Augustine
whom she had brought home, especially after I disappeared. I knew vaguely what was the use
of outdoor life: he had traveled and lived some time after Nièvre, which had recovered after
two or three times their customs in Paris, only to abandon again almost without reason, and
as under the rule of a malaise that resulted in a perpetual instability of character and as a need to
switch places.

Sometimes there seen, but so secretly and through so much trouble, that in each of those Sometimes
I had thought he was the victim of a painful dream. In those fleeting appearances I had the
impression of a strange image of a face wrinkled as if the black color My soul had faded on
that radiant face.

At that time I had a great emotion. There was an exhibition of modern painting. Although very
ignorant of a fine art in the matter of which had not the slightest instinct culture and I
was talking about much less the more respected, would sometimes chase comments others who taught
me to know well my time and make comparisons that cheered me nothing. One day I saw a small
group of people - who should be familiar - before discussing a picture.

It was a half-length portrait in an antique style designed with a dark background: undecided
dress without accessories, two splendid hands, her hair half lost, head made from the front,
strong outlines, engraved on the canvas with precision a patterned enamel and I do not know what a
sober, comprehensive and yet evening, which gave to face extraordinary uncertainties was excited
to beat a soul in the vigorous drawing of the factions as firm and resolute as the engraving
of a medal. I was stunned effigy in front of that awful reality and sadness. The signature
was that of an illustrious painter. I scanned the list and found the initials of the lady of Nièvre.
I had no need of that testimony. Magdalene was there before me, eyes fixed on me, but with what
eyes, in what position, how pale and what mysterious expression of expectation and bitter grief!

In
just was not to launch a cry and I do not know how I managed to restrain myself for not giving enough
people the spectacle of madness. I placed in the front row away to all those curious that had nothing
to do between the portrait and me. To have the right to examine a closer and more long imitated
the gesture, attitude, and how to look up small exclamations of approval from fans practical in the
field of art painting. I feigned a passion for the painter's work when in fact they liked or
loved otherwise the model.

I returned the next day and onwards, I slipped early along the deserted galleries, saw the picture
from afar and through a cloud life taking every step that I moved toward him. Arrived, all significant
device disappeared: Magdalena was sadder and sadder, more and more fixed in who knows what terrible
anxiety bursting with dreams. He spoke, I meant all the things beyond reason I had been tortured
soul about two years, asked for her grace and me. I prayed that I received, which allow me
to return to it. I had my whole life with the most unfortunate and most legitimate The pride and
joy. There was a time when the fugitive modeling of the cheeks, the brightness of the eyes,
the indefinable mouth drawing moves gave the effigy mobilities caused me fear. It seemed as
I listened, I understood, and that the relentless and chisel he had learned imprisoned in a trait
so hard, was all that prevented moved and reply.

Sometimes I came to mind the idea that Magdalene had foreseen what happened, ie that would
recognize me and I would go mad with grief and joy at the fantastic conversation of a man living
with a painting. And as I saw in that fact malice or compassion, idea that anger or exasperate
me made me shed tears of gratitude.

What you mean you took almost two months past that were, on the other
day I gave truly a farewell funeral halls were closed and I was missing
portrait more alone than ever.

After some time, I received a visit from Oliver. He was serious, it felt somewhat embarrassed,
almost as if the weight of a case of conscience was weighing on his soul.

Just saw him I began to tremble.

- I do not know what happens in Nièvre - I said, - but everything seems to go wrong.

- Magdalena? - I asked aghast.

- Julia is sick, sick enough to cause concern.

Magdalene herself is not good. I would go, but the situation is not sustainable. My uncle would
write letters very desolate.

- Magdalena ...?-- But I asked again fearing that another disaster
happen even he I hid.

- I tell you, Magdalena is a very sad state
of health.

There has deteriorated some time this part, but still wrong.

- Oliver - I cried - you go or not I'll be there tomorrow Nièvre. Nobody has been fired Magdalena's
house, I left voluntarily. Magdalena had told me wrote the day he had need of me, if she has
reason to be quiet, I have them to run to his side.

- You will do absolutely anything you want. In such a case would act like you, deferring to
the regret if the remedy was worse than the disease.

- Bye.

- Bye.

XVII

The next day I was in Nièvre. Afternoon I arrived just before nightfall. It was the month of November.
I got out some distance from the gate in the forest. Crossed the entrance courtyard without being
noticed. At the end of the service rooms to the right shining light in the kitchen. Two bright
windows are highlighted on the front of the castle.

I went straight to the hall whose door was just ajar when someone crossed I went, it was dark.
"" Mrs. Nièvre? "I believe I talked to a girl of the easement. The person to whom I had addressed
turned suddenly came to me and screamed: it was Magdalena.

Froze in surprise and I took her hand without finding the strength to articulate a word. The poor,
came out clearly that he lent the whiteness of the statue: completely inert fingers and ice
cream fell off my hand imperceptibly as if were those of a dead woman. I saw it wobble, but
the movement I made to hold it off by an impulse of inconceivable terror, lost eyes widened
and said, "Sunday !...» as if waking from a bad dream that had lasted
those two years, then took a few steps toward the stairs, dragging
after her without conscience what he was doing.

We went up together, next to each other, always together our hands.

Al reach the threshold of the first floor was like a flash of presence
of mind.

- Come in here - I said - I will tell my father.

I saw that she called her father and move to the Fourth of July.

The first words of Mr. D'Orsel were these:

- My dear son, I have a lot of grief.

Those words spoke louder than all the recriminations and penetrated my heart like a sword.

- I heard that Julia was sick - I told him no effort to disguise the trembling My voice grew
faint .-- I also learned that Mrs. Nièvre was delicate and came to
see you.

So long ago ...

- It's true - said Mr. D'Orsel - long ago.

Life happens: everyone has their duties and their concerns ...

Called, put on the lights, I looked quickly as if to check on me a change analogous to the changes
that had occurred two years after their daughters.

- Also you have aged - continued with a sort of benevolence and very interesting .-- loving you
worked a lot, we have proof ...

Then I spoke to Julia, the serious concerns that they had, but fortunately had vanished from a few
days. Julia entered the convalescent and everything was a matter of care, attention and a
few days of rest. Again went from one subject to another.

- Behold, you're quite a man now famous - .-- We have continued to
focus on their stuff with sincere interest.

He paced up and down, talking and without hilación. His hair was completely white, their high body
slightly hunched offered a singularly noble appearance of premature
aging or depression.

Magdalena came to interrupt us after five minutes. She was dressed in dark and resembled long,
with the animation of life as well, the portrait that had impressed
me so much.

I got up, met him, mumbled incoherently two or three that had no meaning, no longer even know
how to explain my visit, and how suddenly fill the huge gap of two years put among us as a bottomless
pit of secrets, and dark misgivings. I recovered without But seeing her more in control of herself
and spoke calmly as I could alarm Oliver had given me. When I gave that name stopped me.

- Will he come? - Said.

- I do not think - I said .-- At least in a few days.

He made a gesture of absolute discouragement and the three fell into the most painful silence.

I asked where he was the lord of Nièvre, as if it were possible I would not Oliverio informed
of his trip and I was surprised to learn he was absent.

- Oh, this
is a great abandon! - Magdalena said .-- We are all sick or a little
less.

There are bad influences on the environment, the resort is unhealthy
and there is nothing cheerful - added looked up at the tall windows
of old stained glass windows in which yet at a daylight remaining
almost completely extinguished.

To escape embarrassing conversation impossible spoke of the deplorable
situation Some people, who threatened increase in the next winter,
in some cases diseases and misery in others, of a child who died in
the village and that Julia had attended and care until the day when,
gravely ill herself, had to entrust to other role, powerless against
death, a sister of charity.

Seemed pleased with those unfortunate stories misfortunes and to enumerate, I know not what sombre
greed, all the calamities that were nearby around his existence a
cause of sadness contest. Then, as he had done Mr. D'Orsel, spoke
of me with some reservation as soon as admirably abandonment calculated
to facilitate the position of each.

My purpose was to make a visit
and then win the village inn in which he had committed a room, but
decided otherwise Magdalena: I noticed that he had given the necessary
orders for me to stay on the second floor of the castle, in a room
that I had already occupied the first time that I spent some time
in Nièvre.

That night, before we part, in my presence, she wrote
to her husband.

- I notice Mr Nièvre you're here - I said.

And I
realized that such a precaution, taken in my presence, involved in
unscrupulous and fair decisions.

Julia had not seen. He was weak
and agitated. The news of my arrival, although caution that was told,
had caused a shock very much alive.

After this fashion did the host advance on the town day by day; and the townsmen flocked to
the battlements & both sides shot at one another, but by night did all betake themselves to sleep. The last leaves were falling, sadly mixed red offal in the stiffness
of bare branches. The plain naked and was not severe and not a shred of dry stubble to remember
the summer or fall and did not show a single new grass do expect the return of the fertile seasons.
In the distance, many couples could be distinguished of edible red hair, dragging the plows, sunk
into the blackened earth, moving uniform slowly. Everywhere sounded the voice of the young men by
encouraging labor yoke especially local and shouting, wailing, was prolonged indefinitely in absolute
calm gray that day. Occasionally, through the atmosphere and light rain fell hot like a light gauze
curtain. The sea began to roar at the close of the scarps. We follow the coast. The marshes were
filled with water, high tide was partly submerged Lighthouse Garden, beating calmly base of the tower
and sat on an island.

Magdalena walked nimbly wet roads. Each step outlined in the soft earth the imprint of his shoe
narrow, with high heels. I watched that so light and so trace fragile, still comparing and
distinguishing it from that we were leaving, calculating how much was possible that lasted. Those
steps would have liked to remain embedded, as witness to his presence, the whole indefinite
would happen without it, then thought the first pass after the wipe, a little rain would destroy,
and I stopped to look once more into the intricacies of this unique trail trail be left by the
most loved, in the same land where I was born.

When they approached us Villanueva pointed in the distance the road, leaving whitish Village extends
in a straight line to horizon.

- That is the road Ormesson.

That word, Ormesson, seemed to awaken in her a series of memories and weak; followed closely
with the sight of the long avenue of elm trees planted, all bent
to the same side by the winds of the sea, and on how far apart crossed
Moreover, wagons that rolled, approaching each other and away Villanueva.

-
This time - he said - and not travel through it yourself.

- And I'll
be happier? - I replied .-- I be safer not to miss anything?

Where back to find what we leave?

Magdalena then leaned on my arm in an attitude of complete abandon
and said this one sentence:

- My friend, you are an ingrate!

In mid-November, on a cold morning a white frost, leave my house Trembles. The carriages remained
on the road, crossed Villanueva as I did again. Alternatively my eyes roamed the countryside
disappearing behind us and the beautiful Magdalena's face sitting across from me.

XII

Happy days were completed, finished that season short pastoral,
I fell into deep concerns.

Just installed in the small hotel should serve as a halt Paris, Magdalena and Mr Nièvre began
receiving and movement of the world did intrusion in our lives.

- I will stay at home once a week to outsiders - Magdalena said, -
for you'll forever.

Next week I give a dance, will you?

- A dance? ... Does not seduce me ...

- Why?

Are you afraid people?

- Absolutely, as an enemy.

- What do you think of me attracts me?

- Sea. I give you example and follow it.

The night I indicated earlier. There was only a small number of guests surrounding Magdalena near
the fireplace in the first room. When he heard my name announced, by an impulse of familiarity
that did not have to repress, he turned toward me away a bit of around her and showed me, from
head to toe, and unexpected image of all the attractions. It was the first time I saw so, beautiful
dress and indiscreet dancing. I noticed that changing color and instead of answering his calm gaze
my eyes fell awkwardly on a loop of diamonds gleamed high in the low-cut body. One moment we were
facing to face, she cut, I turbadísimo. Surely no one suspected the rapid exchange of views
we warned the two that had been wounded delicate modesty. She blushed slightly, A slight shiver
agitated her shoulders as if suddenly felt cold and broke off in the middle of a sentence negligible,
approached the chair once occupied and as naturalness of the world took a lace shawl and pulled it.
That attitude could mean many things, but I wanted to see it as just a naive act of condescension
and goodness which even showed me the most adorable and puzzled me for the rest of the evening.
She kept some shrinkage within several minutes. I knew too much for be wrong. Two or three times
for no reason at me surprised, as if still under the control of a persistent feeling, then returned
his courtesy obligations Gradually aplomb. The movement of the dance performed on her and on
me in the opposite direction she regained her freedom and was happy, I was sorry so much the
more gladly saw and my anxiety grew as he learned in her outdoor
attractions bartered an almost angelic creature in a perfect woman
of good taste.

It was wonderfully beautiful and the idea that others know as well as I was soon oppress bitterly
heart. Until then my feelings about Magdalena had escaped feeling the bite of poisonous. "A
torment," he said. Thought I had exhausted all sort of fainting.

Obviously my love was not complete: one was missing tributes of love,
not the more dangerous, but the ugliest.

The besieged saw and approached her. I heard around me now burned into my sentences: I was jealous.

Never
admits being jealous, but those feelings were that I could be confusing. It is good to make profitable
any humiliation, and it enlightened me about many truths: I had noticed, had she been able to
forget, that this exalted love, thwarted, seeds of misfortune, slightly carnal, but very near
infested with pride, rose much above the ordinary level of passion that was no worse or better
and the only aspect that made him different from those was due to being less likely that many
others. Some facilities habríanle brought down from its pedestal unfailingly ambitious, and like
many things in this world whose only superiority stems from faulty
logic or fullness, who knows what would come to be if it had been
less absurd or more happy!

- Would not you dance? - Magdalena asked
a little later in their path without having I tried.

- No, not dance
- I replied.

- Not even me?

"- Said with astonishment.

- Not with you or anyone else.

- Do as you like - ended with some
dryness.

No more I talked all night and shrank out of sight as much as possible.

Oliver

was already past midnight.

I talked to Julia who had danced in bad win and you did not dance again, when he entered the
room quiet, with much ease, smiling with that look in his eyes that was assembled like a sword
hanging, every time was with new faces, especially women. He went to Magdalena, shook hand and
I heard he apologized for having arrived so late. Then walked around the room, stopped to greet
two or three women who were known, and finally sat down familiarly next to Julia.

- Magdalena is fine.

And you are also very good, my little Julia - told his cousin about without having paid attention
in his headdress .-- Only - added in the same tone of abandonment - have you two loops of pink that
make you a little brown.

Julia did not budge. First he pretended not to hear. Then set the glaze slowly Oliverio dark
blue of her eyes without flame, and then he had looked for a few
seconds of a able way to uproot the firm expressed its cousin, he
said, standing:

- Will you join me along with my sister?

I did what she wanted and I hurried to meet Oliver.

- You've offended!
- I said.

- Maybe.

Julia makes me anxious.

'So he turned his back I decided to cut their losses any insistence.

I had the courage, was worth?, To stay until the dance ended. I needed to return to see Magdalena
alone, to possess more closely then that would leave many people which had spread, so to speak.
Oliver had asked that waiting for me asking see that would repair the lack of having come so
late. Good or bad, this, about which could not harbor suspicions of cheating, seemed to settle.
We were face to face in one of those gusts of secrecy that made our friendship always clairvoyant,
the thing more unequal and more rare. After our trip to Trembles, and especially since our return
Paris, had taken the temperament of me proceed without protection whatever it wanted their views
on my conduct. It was now three or four in the morning. We and forgotten in a small lounge
where some players are retarded still stubborn. When we finally realizing that not perceived
as a sound, and there were no musicians no dancers, no. Magdalena, sitting at the bottom of a
large empty room talking animatedly Julia, curled like a cat in an armchair. Gave an exclamation
of surprise to see us appear in this desert at that hour, after endless night so bad that
employed. I was fatigued. The traces of weariness around his eyes that shine by providing special
causes insomnia after late night parties. The Lord of Nièvre and Mr. D'Orsel still playing.
She was alone with Julia and I supported it before Oliver's arm. The average red light projected
above it, formed a fog composed of fine dust and fumes smelling of the party. Above furniture
on the rug, remains of flowers, bouquets trampled, fans forgotten dance cards with notes. The
last carriage rolled on patio slabs hotel and to my ears came the sound of the handle to be
folded and the pounding of the doors closing.

I do not know how fast to retreat to another time when we met the
four in such a meeting - but in a different situation, each under
the influence of a simple heart, vanished forever - made me look around
me and summarize in one sense everything I said.

I let go of me is enough to consider, as a spectator in a theater, that picture four-person
singular closely grouped after a dance, examining each other, silent, looking closer in the
same way in another time and finding an obstacle once seen as trying and failing to do so. I was well
aware of the dark drama that unfolded between us. Each had our role, but to what extent? He could
not achieve it, but in future would enough serenity to face the dangers of mine, sadly, the most
dangerous of all In my opinion, at least, and I was ready to boldly reviving memories of the
past proposing we finished the night with a game that we had much fun at my aunt when, after leaving
the last players arrived at the room the husband of Magdalena and Mr. D'Orsel.

Mr. D'Orsel treated us all as children, including his eldest daughter, which rejuvenated by
calculation of tenderness pleasure in recalling names apply the convent. The Mr input Nièvre
was colder and the sight of that seemed to cause intimate cuatuor very opposite effect. I
do not know if it was true or apprehension, but I seemed to be fatuous, dry wounding. Their conversation
displeased me.

With his tie a little high, his impeccable dress, with a special air of a man in evening dress just
give a party and feel homeowner, it seemed little friendly and simple hunter who had been my
guest Trembles, it seemed also that Magdalena, with the dazzling brooch bearing on chest hair
splashed with diamonds, did not resemble the modest and intrepid walker, a month before receiving
the rain followed us and walking with his feet in the sea. "It was a simple difference of trichomes
or was that more of a real change of souls? He had regained the look too cautious, especially the
tone of superiority that so deeply impressed me the first night he was surprised in the classroom
D'Orsel house, making a solemn court Magdalena. I thought I noticed a chill in it had not
previously noticed and some firmness in its position proud husband again I showed that Magdalene was
his wife, and I was not anyone there. Whether or not suspicious, error into illness, there was
a moment that this latter view seemed so clear that I gave way to the smallest doubt. The farewell
was brief. We went out and settled in a carriage. I pretended to sleep and did as I Oliverio. With eyes
closed recapitulated what had happened during that night and not knowing what was in antojábaseme
everything seeds of many storms, then I thought Mr. Nièvre - who believed sincerely have forgiven
forever - and I had to admit that he hated.

Several days a week at least, Magdalena passed without giving signs of life. Took advantage
of the time does not succeed it was safe to go home to leave a card. Once this formula of civility,
I thought we were in peace Mr. Nièvre and me. As for his wife was angry with her, why? was no
reason, but the cruel despair over me gave me strength at this time to avoid them.

Starting from that day, the movement of Paris surrounded us and were
swept away by that whirlwind which stunned at risk of stronger and
more heads are likely shipwreck the strongest hearts.

Little did I know almost nothing about the world after fleeing of him for a year I was suddenly
in the room of Mrs. Nièvre, ie with every reason to have to haunt him. Considered useless to repeat
that I was not made for that kind of life could only answer me: 'Go away'; but perhaps this
advice will work and it would cost I would not have followed. Had In order to appear in almost
every room that she frequented.

Intended to be as accurate in fulfilling the duties of society entirely artificial, as satisfied
a man well-born and covered under their sponsorship. She often expressed a simple I wish no other foundation
than welcome to avail me and my imagination, ready to transform However, scope of mandate assigned
to it. Wounded everywhere, unhappy restless, the continued constantly and when that was possible
I missed her desolate, cursed those who I disputed his presence and I despaired.

Sometimes I sincerely rebelled against customs in which I dispelled fruitless not contributing
much to my happiness and I removed one other reason. Cordially hated people of which I served,
however, to reach when prudence or other reasons I moved away from home. Thought, not without reason,
that his enemies were so as mine. Eternal secret that would be brought and taken in such media,
because like an outdoor fire was certainly unwise to lay off sparks that give him away; if
not already known, at least it was easy to come to be known. There was a lot of people that to
see them, I said furiously: "All these must be my confidants." And what could I expect from them?
Advice?

Had already received from the only one whose friendship I made them bearable: Oliver. Complicity
or complacency? Not a hundred times no. I dreaded even the thought that there was a conspiracy against
my happiness, the idea that this reduced and famished that had been the subject of envy for
whoever it was.

A Magdalena only told part of the truth. Do not hide anything about my aversion to society, firing
only the most personal reason of certain grievances. When it came judge the world more generally,
other than the perennial idea that it should consider as a thief of my fortune, lavished invectives
with fierce joy. The hostile painted everything that I was loved, indifferent to all that is good and
full of contempt for most respectable, both in terms of opinions as to the feelings. Repeatedly argued
facts, by which every man of good sense should be hurt; censured lightness of the social precepts
and more still of passions condemned ease of conscience, whatever
the causes, ambition, glory or vanity.

Doeth notice the way free as usually understood, not the concept of duty, but all duties,
abuse of words, the confusion of all the measures, which leaves room for perversion simple ideas
to get anyone to understand about what is good, true, bad, worse, proving that there is no
appreciable difference between glory and prestige - in the sense of the word - not exact delimitation
of the evil actions and facts simply thoughtless.
 In all things will we
keep the covenant that we made, but thou on thy part must fulfil that which was agreed upon.'
Then said King Harald: 'There is also an old custom which hath it that the wisest giveth way,'
& therewith went he back even to his own ship. In such like dealings betwixt the Kings was
it difficult to hold the balance; the men to King Magnus swore even that he was in the right,
but those who were dullards deemed that Harald had been slighted.

The men that were of King Harald's following said it were well and right that Magnus should
have the berth had the two Kings come thither at the same time, but that King Harald could
not be called upon to leave the berth wherein he were lying afore; and they declared that Harald
had acted well and wisely, but those who wished to make the worst of things said that King
Magnus desired to break the covenant, and that he had done King Harald wrong and injustice.

Soon unwise men were talking so much about quarrels of this kind that discord arose between
the Kings, and many things befell which the Kings took each after his own fashion albeit thereof
is but little set down in writing.

¶ So King Magnus & King Harald brought their fleet down to Denmark, and when Svein heard thereof
fled he away to Skani. Siéntome,
and humbled when I think that there are countries in the world in which I walked vulgar sadness
and shed tears as unmanly. I remember one day I wept sincerely, with bitterness, like a child
who tears do not make blush, the edge of a sea that has witnessed miracles, not divine but human.
He was alone, foot in the sand, sitting on a rock among many who were bronze rings which in other
times had been moored ships. Nobody on the beach was not abandoned by history, or in the sea
on which there seemed to pass even a candle. A white bird flew between heaven and drawing its water
moved over the sky blue plumage and playing it on the calm waters. Was only to represent the
same hour, in one place, the smallness and greatness of a living man. He threw the name of Magdalena,
shouting with all my strength to repeat what the loud rocky shore and then a sob choked my voice,
and filled the heart of confusion I wondered if the men of two thousand years ago, so brave,
so strong, had loved as much as us.

Although he had been told that my absence would last many months,
I returned after a few weeks.

Nothing in the world would have made me extend my trip one more day.

Magdalena I thought even four or five hundred miles of it when one night I went into a lounge
where he was sure he would find. When he saw me made a motion involving unwise.

Very few had been informed of my absence. It disappears just as easily in our large Paris, that
any man would have time to go round the world before anyone had noticed his departure.

Magdalena greeted as if he had seen the day before. At first glance understood returning to her
totally exhausted, hungry to see her and the intact heart.

- I have troubled you a lot - he said.

And sighed. It seemed as though my back instead of causing fear of it empty, on the contrary,
a concern more bitter than all others.

Was reapplied in their task crusher. The means used to "cure"

(was the only word that was used to define a company in which it
was, indeed, their salvation and me) all were bad when they emanated
directly from their support.

Thereafter wanted intervene alone in that struggle of which she was the cause.

- I'll undo what I did - I said a proud day challenge led to madness.

All his blood had left her cold. Indiscretions committed sublime transcended despair. Since
it was not enough to help me as close as possible, lend encouragement when fainted, calm if I was
exasperated. She felt that its action it contained fire, and insisted on extinguish them hour
after hour watching my most secret thoughts. For that would have been necessary multiply infinitely
repeated visits and too often. Then was when I figured out ways to see me home. Got this one
frightful audacity that only allowed women to risk their honor and to act with unquestionable innocence.
Bravely gave me appointments. The site chosen was always the desert, though somewhat distant
from home.

And lest you imagine that such shipments would profit Dangerous frequent occasions when the
Earl of Nièvre was absent. No, when he was in Paris, at the risk to find, lost, came at the appointed
time and almost always so in control of herself, as decisive as if everything had been sacrificed.

His
first look was all a test.

I was enveloped in that vast and dazzling look I wanted to probe my conscience and to recognize
in the bottom of my heart shaped storms or resigned from the previous day. His first sentence
was a question: "How will you you? " How is that you? meant: "Are you more reasonable?"

At times I replied bravely with a semimentira, which never reached to deceive, but awoke in his mind
curiosities and concerns of another kind. He was leaning on my arm and walked under the trees,
silent intervals or by speaking with apparent calm two friends who have come across. She discovered
during those hours of searing insight, revealed to me - like so many wonders, - treasures of disinterest,
of dedication, foresight remedies almost equal to the depths of his charity. Ordered my life
badly dressed, or rather in complete disarray, no devoted as soon as to toil more hype, as the
excesses of the greater inertia.

Censored my cowardice, my fainting was indignant and accused me of invective I pleased generously,
because he claimed that they saw the concerns of an evil spirit balanced
and more perplexed than fair.

Had I been able to conceive a bit milder ambitions led to the actual value she instilled, they
had developed in my mind with flames of fire.

- I see you happy - I said .-- If you knew with what fervor I want!

Ordinarily hesitate at the word future that we both hurt to augury ay! too reasonable. What
perspective, what she discovered out beyond the next day limiting our dreams? No indeed. The vague
and replaced with chimeric as the last hope they have left nothing to expect or even have to wait.

When
I was going to have to miss that mission almost every day, she met with the enthusiasm of a doctor
who is sacrificed, the next day asking me as if it were an excuse of a failure. He had come not knowing
whether to accept the terrible sweetness of relief.

I felt myself slipping into such perfidy that was because I do not discern to what extent
was guilty or unhappy. Despite myself plotting heinous plans, and every day Magdalena unknowingly
was treason. I was not in a position to ignore that there is no value to withstand certain
tests, more invincible virtue undermined at every turn is at serious
risk and that of all diseases which sought to cure was the most contagious.

Having

suddenly absent Count Nièvre, Magdalena me know that our rides should be suspended. The resumed
after her husband returned with more determination and greater enthusiasm. The perpetual me, qui
feci adsum me - me, cause I'm just - again under all forms in paroxysms of generosity that filled
me with shame and happiness.

Thus he came to the steepest point of an attempt to which no woman has heroic been achieved without falling
down. Still remained some time and not lose heart fearlessly too, as a being possessing supernatural
resources to whom the vertigo was deprived the sense of danger and excess retained on the brink
of a sudden his paralyzing reason. At that moment I realized I was exhausted forces. That
miraculous organization defended herself. No regret. Did not confess
anything to betray weakness.

Recognized helpless and discouraged was put it all to chance, and
chance caused her fear as the most uncertain of all auxiliaries, the
most treacherous, perhaps the most threatening.

Filing exhausted, was open up his heart with both hands and show the evil that he had done me.
He did not throw or a wail of anguish.

Faint collapsed. One day I said:

- I have cured you, Magdalena, I do not love.

She stood, was horribly pale, hesitated as frightened by an evil penetrated
to the bottom of the soul.

- Oh, relax you, the day that this happened
!...-- added.

- The day that happened ...-- she repeated.

And her voice failed and began to mourn.

The next day, however, again. I saw her alight from her carriage so changed, so miserable I was
shocked.

- What do you have? - I said running to meet him, so I felt close to fainting.

He recovered somewhat, thanks to a prodigious effort, he could not hide, and he replied only:

-
I am very tired.

Then I was struck by a horrible remorse.

- I'm miserable - I exclaimed, - cored and honest feelings. I knew not save, it comes you to
me and I lose.

Magdalena, I do not need you, I do not want any more help or anything
else ... Do not want to help, so dearly bought at the expense of a
friendship that I have too heavy and that would eventually kill you.

Sustained or not, I just care. My relief will emanate from myself, my misery I concern myself,
and whatever the end of them and not extend to anyone other than me.

I heard at first unanswered, such as reduced to that state of morbid dejection child or fragility
that makes us unable to understand the harshness of certain ideas
and making a decision.

- Let us part - I said - completely.

Yes, Let us part, the better. We see more, Let's forget ... Paris disengage us abundantly without
that we put between us many miles away. The first word you pronounce warning me that I need
you again to find. Otherwise ...

- Otherwise ...-- murmured slowly emerging from its torpor.

He spent a few seconds to look at the bottom of his soul that phrase
for both enclosing the threat of a final goodbye.

At first it seemed as if they do not give readily understandable.

- It's true - he continued, - I am a rather weak point of support, right? a reasoner that tired, a
friend, perhaps, useless ...

Then he saw that looked less harsh solution. And noticing that I was awaiting a response drowning
anxiety, made the unusual gesture of patients killed by the pain, who is tormented by talking about
serious matters and said:

- Why, then, you have come to propose the impossible? I harassed you at your pleasure ... Go
friend ... Go, I beg. Today I am sick. I can think of a word of advice be given. You know better
than me what chance there is in this game ... The one you take will be the only reasonable:
the esteem in which I give and friendship that you profess I can not doubt.

I left her bewildered and resigned, of course, to certain ends separate us forever when neither
wished. Managed only looked at my behavior ensure a continuous separation, soft, which could perhaps
lead us to establish among us warmer agreements and pacify all without too much sacrifice. I stopped
threatening to that sentence of oblivion, desperately tired to be honest, and that smile would
have mercy, if she had had to turn a bit of calm on the day I proposed
as a means.

Continued to live very close to it to show that the party adopted was less extreme and far
enough to leave it free and not impose complicity of which I blushed.

What happened then in the spirit of Madeleine? Judge for yourself. Just relieved paper special
confidant and savior, was suddenly transformed. His genius, his continent, the sweetness of her
look, the perfect equality of its composite nature and malleable
gold steel, ie, forgiveness, and true virtue, natural that strong
without harshness, patient, together, always in the balance of a lake
sheltered from the wind, that ingenious friend to find sources of
comfort, that exquisite phrase inexhaustible mouth, everything changed.

I saw one appear to be new, bizarre, incoherent, inexplicable and
fleeting, sour, sad, hurtful and somber, as if he had been surrounded
by perils, just as I sacrificed wholeheartedly devoted to his life
and pave it aside into the shade of a concern.

Was sometimes in tears. Devoured immediately, passed his hand the eyes with a gesture of resignation
and boredom and the like would have wiped made with a nasty stain. For all blushed as if he had been
caught in contemplation of a bad idea. I noticed that her sister approached more closely than ever,
that too often left leaning on the arm of her father, who adored her, but he did not have the same
interests that she or the mores of high society.

One day I went to his house, and my visits were rare, he said:

- Will you see Mr. Nièvre? I think he's in his cabinet.

Called, did inform Monsieur Nièvre and between us.

He was extraordinarily clever during that visit, the first perhaps
he had made attitude of ceremony.

The Lord of Nièvre was more flexible, without leaving some reserve, warned that more evident
as it was becoming more systematic.

Almost alone held the weight of a conversation that every moment threatened to run out and leave
us with an open mouth. Thanks to that effort of skill and comedy will we represented reached
the end without fail, and there was no margin for any incident that
became too shocking.

Summed up to me this use of his nights of the week, but without my
presence, course.

- You come with me tonight? - She asked her husband.

-
I ask one thing I think not having denied ever - said Mr quite Nièvre
chill.

I went to the door of his office, leaning on the arm of her husband, an upright, confident
at the solid support. I greeted her warmly responding exactly to the tone but its cold farewell.

- Poor, dear woman - I thought of it while I was away .-- Dear awareness that have given rise
to many fears!

And one of those reactions that disgrace in an instant the best impulses, I remembered those statues
resting on a support that holds them in balance and inevitably fall if they are missing that
point of support.

XIV

Augustine then informed me the realization of a project that this honest heart caressed since long
time, and you will recall that it was announced.

I continued seeing Augustine, not lost moments, he was wanted by the opposite, and you was available
to me every time - and were common - they felt the need to immerse healthier waters. I could not
give me better advice, nor was it possible that gives me solace more effective. He never spoke
to me - although my selfish grief of all sweating through my words
- but their way of life itself was an edifying example many lessons.
When I was very tired, very discouraged, very humbled by some new
cowardice, was to him and watched his life as it's going to take the
idea of ​​attending physical force to an assault on fighters. I was
not happy. Success was not even that hard and rewarded laborious value,
rather than vile favors, but at least he could confess his fainting
and the difficulties that opposed him in those fights were not as
active of those who make up flush to the face.

I knew one day I was
not alone.

Augustine took me the novelty - that in many ways assumed
the gravity of a secret - in nursing a long night spent at the head
of my bed. I remember it was late winter, the nights were still long
and cold, and hassle of return to their home as Later he decided to
wait for the day in my room. At midnight came to interrupt Oliverio.
It came from a dance brought in dresses like the smell of luxury,
clusters of women and pleasure, and in his face, a little folding
of the vigil, wearing festive glow and some pale, some excitement
that he payed infinitely seductive elegance.

Halldor Snorrason and Ulf Uspakson, whereof we have afore wrote, hied them to Norway even into
the service of King Harald.

In manifold parts were they opposite one from the other. Halldor was very big & strong and
handsome, and King Harald bore witness regarding him that he was among those of his men who
altered least in unawaited circumstances: whether such might be peril or tidings of joy, or
through things that might occur when danger was toward; never was he more pleased nor less
pleased, never did he sleep more nor less; nor took meat & drink otherwise than as was his
wont. It was so long he did not think in those places! It was like Flash greeting,
and oddly enough, by a sudden flashback to so far remembered impressions the most austere and
soothing my country life. I saw her long Villanueva line of white houses, slightly higher than
the sides. Smoking roofs, its countryside overshadowed by the winter, its red plum groves
by the frost, along icy roads. With the clarity of an overwrought imagination to the extraordinary,
in a few minutes I had the quick perception of all that had surrounded my first charms childhood.
Everywhere that I had exhausted turmoil was only unchanging peace. Everything was gentle and quiet
in what once caused the first shocks of my mind. "What a change!" Thought and under the glow
of which was burned, was cooler ever the source of my first affections.

The heart is such a coward, has less need to rest for a moment left
to me hope, as chimerical as all others, the absolute removal of Trembles
in my house.

No one around me, full years of solitude, comfort insurance, my books, a landscape worship
and work, all things unattainable, and yet, this hypothesis was the sweet and quiet was a little
stroking.

Finally sounded the early hours of the morning.

Two clocks repeated them together, almost unison, as if the strokes of the second were immediately
echoed those of the first: they were the the seminar and the school. This sudden call to the
realities of the day derisory following my pain crushed under a sense of smallness, and he
caught me in the middle of despair a stroke of splint.

VIII

"Surely it is necessary that you have suffered a lot - I wrote
Augustine, replying to very exalted declamations that went a few days
after the departure of Magdalena and husband - but why?

By whom? I continue to propose questions that you never want solve. You hear in the vibration
of something close to emotional well-known, well-defined only, without resemblance to others
for whom the experience, but is this thing that has no name in his letters to you and makes me
pity rather than as loosely as you regrets. And that's not what I'd do. Nothing is painful to me - now
you know - when you it is, and you are in a state of heart or spirit, which demands more active
and more effective than mere words, however sympathetic they may be. Should you need advice.
Doctor's me little stem, are evils which I mean coma suffering you. However, I will suggest a
treatment that applies to everything, including diseases of imagination, I know very badly hygiene.
Methinks that would be good use of ideas fair, logical sentiments, affections possible, in
short, judicious use of forces and activities of life. Life, believe me, that is the heroic
relief of all suffering whose base is a mistake. The day you put your foot on the path of life,
but real life understand each other, the day that you know well, with their laws, their needs,
their hardships, their duties and their chains, their hardships and sorrows, their real pain and
its charms, You'll see how she is healthy, beautiful, strong and fruitful under his own accuracy. As
for your recommendation of attending. I will visit lords gladly Nièvre because it gives me the
opportunity to take care of you with friends who I suppose are not unusual I deplore the unrest.
Rest assured: I have also the largest of the reasons for be discreet: do not know anything. "

* * *

A little later I wrote again:

"I saw the lady of Nièvre - told me - and has been pleased to consider
me as of the best friends of yours.

On that occasion he told me things that I show caring he loves you
very much, but not very well known.

However, if the mutual friendship not a party to give perfect knowledge of each other, must have
been because you and not her, it being understood that this does not prove you wrong manifest
half: the most I can think is that if this has done has been because he wanted to. This reasoning
leads me to conclusions that disturb me. Yet once more, my dear Sunday life, what possible reason
... I beg, do not believe you to identify things that reasonable as an enemy of the good, because
it is inseparable friend of justice and truth. "

* * *

I realize some of the tips that Augustine gave me, without knowing
exactly what apply, but guessing.

As for Oliver, the day following the night that would obviate many statements at the same time that Madeleine
and her husband departed in the direction of Paris, came into my room.

- "He left already? - I asked him just saw him.

- Yes - I answered, - but again, it's almost my sister, you're more than my friend, must foresee
everything.

Would continue, but the sorry state of depression when I was disarmed
him, no doubt and urged him to postpone his explanations.

- But in
the end, we'll talk about it - just said.

Then he pulled out his watch and saw that they were as close as eight, added:

- Hey, Sunday, go to school! It's the wisest thing we can do.

It had to happen that neither Augustine's advice and the warnings of Oliver prevail against
an irresistible trend, drawn, too powerful to be restrained by reasoning or warnings. Comprehending
imitated me: I expected my rescue or permanent loss, last recourse left to men without will
exhaust all the combinations when imaginable: the unknown.

Augustine wrote to me once or twice giving me news of Madeleine: he had gone to visit property, near
Paris, where Mr. De Nièvre intended to pass the summer. It was a beautiful castle in a forest,
"the most romantic town house, for a woman that perhaps share with you, your way, the yearnings
of the field and hobbies of their own. "

For his part wrote to Julia Magdalena, no doubt with fraternal expansions that did not reach to me.
Once, during those months of absence, I received a brief letter from
him telling me Augustine.

I appreciated the fact habérselo know and told me the good opinion of him had formed: it was all
will, all righteousness, all noble energy, and gave me to understand that separate needs of the heart,
never find anyone better or firmer support. At that same letter, signed with his name any more, send
me fond memories of her husband.

Not return until the holiday season, just days before the date of the distribution of awards last
act of my life dependent emancipated me.

I would have liked more, you understand, that Madeleine did not attend that ceremony. Many disparities
in me, my student status was ridiculous disagreement with my moral disposition, as a further
humiliation avoided any developments that could remind to both those contrasts. For some time my susceptibility,
point to them, had become very grave. It was - as I said - the point of view less noble and
less admissible my pains, and if I over it is because of an incident that stiffened again my vanity
and it will reveal a detail the unique irony of the situation.

The ceremony was verified in an old abandoned chapel since it was just long open and decorated
every year for that object. The aforementioned chapel was located in the bottom of the main
courtyard of the school, it was reached by walking through, the double row whose abundant
lime green a bit glad that sad ride. From afar I saw enter Magdalena in the company of several
young women friends, all summer clothes colored and open umbrellas on which sported the light
of sun and shade leaves of trees. Fine dust raised by the motion of the foot like the accompanying
a slight cloud and the heat, the tips of branches and yellow, fell around them mature leaves and
flowers and hooked into the long muslin shawl that Magdalene was involved. But smiling, happy,
face, animated by the motion and turned to look curiously our school
battalion formed in two rows and keeping the line as young recruits.

All womanly curiosity, and those on However, projected into me and felt like so many burns. It was
the middle August and the weather was gorgeous. The birds had fled the family trees and chirping
on the roof where the sun was vibrating. Crowd murmurs broke the long silence twelve months,
extraordinary joys dilate the face of the old school, the limes so perfumed with wild aromas.
Much would have to be free and happy!

The preliminaries were very long and I counted the minutes that still separated me from my freedom.
Finally came the signal. A title of laureate was called the first philosophy. I went to stage
and when I had my crown in one hand, the other a thick volume, standing next to stairway, face to
face public clapped eyes sought Mrs. Ceyssac; the first look I found with my aunt, the first
friendly face I recognized, precisely below me in the front row, was the Magdalena. Did you
experience it a little too seeing confusion in that horribly awkward attitude I try to paint
you? Impact on it "I dominated shrink? Have you had your friendship to me laughable or just guessing
who suffered? What were, precisely, their feelings during the quick caustic test but appeared
to reach them both at the same time and in the same direction? I do not know. But she got very
red and raised her blush when he saw I was down and I toward them.

And when my aunt, after giving me a kiss, handed my crown inviting to congratulate me, completely
taken aback. I'm not quite sure what I was told to testify I experienced
great satisfaction and congratulated me on the terms that are commonly
used.

His hand trembled slightly. I think he tried to say: "I am proud, my dear Sunday 'or "Okay."

He watched her eyes a tear, "was of concern, compassion or just unintended effect shock of
young shy? Who knows! Many times I've wondered without accomplishment.

We left. I threw my crowns in the courtyard of the classroom through
the door before last time.

Even his eyes back again soon to break with a past that exasperated
me.

And if I could get rid of my memories of school as fast as I stripped uniform, it would have
probably at that time, an unparalleled sense of independence and virility.

- And now - I asked my aunt a few hours later - what do you do?

- Now? - I replied .-- I do not really know.

And telling the truth, because the uncertainty that dominated me embracing everything from the
choice a career that she wanted it to be brilliant, to the use of much of my ardent desires,
something that did not.

He was convinced that Madeleine would be first to settle in Nièvre and then return to Paris
to end the winter. We were supposed to move directly to that city, so that she would find us and
find work in the form and manner that we choose, but under the special direction of Augustine.
Travel arrangements and those wise projects we occupied a part of the holiday, but the quality of
work, the end we should pursue, vague program that the first article
was not yet formulated, were Full points for Oliver indefinite same
for me.

From the day of my freedom had forgotten all my years of school; is
the only time in my life that left me cold soul, the mere memory of
me that no made me happy.

As for the future, I thought in Paris with the fear that is inherently
confusing to anticipated, inevitable, but little smiling always be
well known too soon.

Oliverio, with great surprise on my part, did not show the slightest setback to the idea of ​​moving
away from Ormesson.

- Today - calmly told me a few days before our departure - and I have nothing to keep me here.

"No
sooner had exhausted all the joy?

IX

We entered Paris by night.

But even if we had come at another time, would always result later. It was raining and very
cold.

At first I just saw muddy streets, sidewalks wet it glistened in the glow of lights stores, the
continued rapid flashing of the vehicles crossing, splashing mud,
a myriad of sparkling lights, and lighting without symmetry in long
avenues formed black homes whose height seemed prodigious.

I remember the smell hit me gas denounced a city where night life
was the same as the day, and pale of the faces looked exactly like
the sick.

I recognized that shade the Oliver and understood better than before I had a different origin.

At
one point I opened my window to better hear strange noise that echoed in that people so full of
life below and whose heights were already plunged into the night,
I saw the narrow street, two rows of people carrying torches in their
hands, escorting a row of lanterns shining carriages, pulled by four
horses all marching almost at a gallop.

- Watch soon - Oliver told
me - is king.

Dimly I saw reflections of light on leaves helmets and swords, and
the parade of armed men and horses shod, echoed briefly on the pavement
with metallic echo, then lost more and less noticeable noise in the
fog light of torches.

Oliver noted the address carried by the carriages and then the latter had disappeared, said, revealing
the satisfaction of a man who knows his Paris and finds him returning
As always:

- Yes, the king goes to the Italians tonight.

And despite the rain and cold of the night, still remained some time
bending over tingling of strangers that passed quickly, constantly
renewed and who seemed compelling interests that ran contrary towards
objects.

- Are you happy? - I asked.

Launched a mighty sigh as if the contact of her extraordinary life
that had filled excessive aspirations suddenly and said, without answering:

-
And you?

Then, without waiting for my reply, he continued:

- Ah,
gee! Then of
them all demanded Hakon to bear him out in regard to the agreement that the King should give
Ragnhild such dowry as was to her mind: 'Since she will not wed an unprincely man then canst
thou give me an earldom; lineage have I, and according to what folk say certain other qualities
therewith that may well give me title to be an earl.' Then said the King: 'When King Olaf,
my brother, & King Magnus, his son, ruled the kingdom, one earl did they allow to be in the
country at a time; this likewise hath been my plan since I have been King, & therefore will
I not take away from Orm the dignity which I have already given him.' Then saw Hakon that his
cause had not been forwarded and he liked it but ill, and Fin was likewise exceeding wrath
that the King had not kept his word, and thereafter they parted. Hakon fared straightway from
the country in a well-found long-ship, and southward steered a course for Denmark where he
betook him to his kinsman-in-law, King Svein. The King received him with great pleasure & gave
him large grants in Denmark and made he Hakon also captain of his coast defences, which were
against vikings, who oft-times harried in the Danish realm, and Wends, and Courlanders, and
other folk coming from the east. Therefore at sea, on his ships, dwelt Hakon in winter as well
as in summer.

¶ Asmund was the name of a certain man who was said to be nephew§ & foster-son to King Svein,
a very able man was he, and well-beloved by the King.

But when Asmund grew to man's estate soon showed he himself of an unruly complexion & a manslayer;
and the King being ill-pleased thereat sent him away, but gave him a company of men and a goodly
feof whereof could he full well find support. That once
all costs were passed along his horse galloped Sunday and whipped with as if the rider whip
punish him for any sudden viciousness or have been afraid.

During the time of ride Sunday was distracted and kept as long as
possible his horse to gallop.

Sunday was low amateur at sea had grown up - he said - listening to their cries and remembered
this time in disgust, only more cheerful lack of walking paths we adopted that direction. However,
seen from the top of the stream that followed the flat horizon land and sea, were a surprising
grandeur from having been empty. Moreover, the continuous movement of the waves and the stillness
of the plain, the contrast from passing ships, with the houses that were stationary, and adventurous
life life determined by analogy, should impress and tasted very strongly secretly certainly,
with pleasure own acre of the pleasures of the mind that cause suffering. Al the evening we
returned to step short of the rocky roads nestled between the fields whose land was carved recently
blackish. The larks were flying at ground level fleeing with one last shudder of days on the wings.
So we came to the vineyards and left us the salt air of the coast. From the bottom of the plain
stood a warmer breath. Shortly after we walked under the blue shade of large trees and often
was already closed night when they cast dismounted in the courtyard
of Trembles.

In the evening we met again in a large room equipped with antique furniture, a wide clock marked
the hour, so vibrant was her reaching chime to be heard until the upper rooms. It was impossible to
evade the monotonous noise that woke us up with only the beat of its pendulum, and many times we
were surprised Sunday and I listen to each other in silence the harsh murmur second to second
led us from one day to another. We attended to slaughter the kids to bed at night which was
played by indulgence in the classroom, and whom the mother had a
bed, all wrapped in white cloth, arms hanging and eyes closed as in
sleep.

At ten o'clock we parted. I returned to Villanueva, or later when the nights were rainy and dark and
the road less traveled, I kept him in Trembles. I had my property on the second floor in a
corner of the building coming to one of the turrets. Another time, during his youth, he held Sunday
this very room. From window was discovered across the plain, all Villanueva and even the high
seas, and fell asleep listening the sound of wind in the trees and the hum of the waves had lulled
to Sunday in childhood. The next day everything recommenced as above, with the same fullness
of life, the same accuracy in the distractions and work. The only domestic accidents I was able to attend
were indicative of the station, which disturbed the symmetry of the customs; as, for example,
a rainy day that changes the counting arrangements good weather.

On such days, Sunday was up to his office. I apologize to the reader to these little details and
others that will follow, but they allow you to penetrate slowly and by the same indirect ways
than myself led me, life of the gentleman farmer in consciousness of man, and perhaps in particular
will find it less vulgar. These days, said, Sunday was up to his office, ie retrograding three
or four years and revived the past few hours. In that room had some thumbnails family a portrait of
him, from when I was very young and her face surrounded by pink and brown curls; a picture in
which there was no facial features similar to those of men for the present; some labeled bundles in a
stack of papers and two libraries: an ancient, the other entirely modern manifested by special
selection of books, in fact predilections applied in your life. A small cabinet containing dusty school
books only; volumes of study and award. Add to all this an old desk riddled with stains Ink and
knife strokes and a beautiful world map dating back half a century in which were drawn by hand
the most chimeric circuits throughout all countries of the earth. In addition to those examples of
his student life, respected and preserved with real caring for a man who was older, had other stuff
that corresponded revealing his inner life than he had been, I had thought that my duty to
known, although they have a lot of childishness. Refiérome to what was seen on the walls,
on shelves, in glass, many easy to decipher secrets.

Leíanse mostly complete dates - day, month and year .-- frequent indication was reproduced in
series with sequence data from different years, as many had mainly followed identical to finding
something, whether its presence somewhere material or thought on the same subject. It was rare
signature at the bottom of the inscriptions, but were not limited less revealing of personality
that was conceived and recorded. There was also one basic geometrical figure. Above, the same
figure was reproduced with one or two lines Rather than change the meaning without changing
the principle and repeated with new changes came to correspond to particular meanings involving
the triangle or circle original, but with different results. In the midst of these allegories,
of which he was difficult to tell, were written some very concise maxims and many verses all
contemporary work that reflects on the human identity in progress. Most part were written
in pencil, because the poet timidly or they disdain stamped stay pay too much drawing in a way
that perpetuated on the wall. Monograms in which it was linked with a capital D, is highlighted
on the first verse many of those poems more definite meaning, memories of more recent times without
doubt. Suddenly, as the revelation of a return to a more painful mysticism or higher, had written
- probably by a fortuitous coincidence with the poet Longfelow - Excelsior, Excelsior, Excelsior,
repeated between a portion of exclamation marks. Then tell of a time that could be calculated around
the date of their marriage, clearly warned that is out of indifference or perhaps the result
of a strong determination, adopted the party not to write more. Do we judge that had been completed
and the posthumous evolution its existence? Or thought, rightly, that nothing could henceforth fear
about that self-identity he had so carefully set up to then? And last one date was very visible
to all others and coincided exactly with the age of John, the her first child was born.

A large concentration of spirit, an active and intense self-observation, instinct to rise too
high each time more and mastered not never lost sight; transformations skid of life with the
will to recognize themselves in each new face, the nature is understanding,
feelings that are born and nurtured a young heart soften their own
substance, the name that is linked to other verses and escaping from
him like the smell of a flower in spring failed efforts towards the
high peaks of the ideal, peace, in short, made in a spirit stormy,
perhaps ambitious, tormented by insurance chimeras, behold, if I mistake
not, what could be read on that record mute, the more significant
its confusing mnemonic many memoirs.

The soul of thirty years of existence still shaken, pounded in the narrow enclosure, and when
Dominic was in it before Me, looking out the window, a little distracted and perhaps even persecuted
by the echo of ancient rumors, it was a matter of whether he had come to evoke what he called
the shadow of himself or to forget.

One day she took a package of books placed in a dark corner of the library, I did sit, opened
one of the volumes and without further preamble began reading softly. They were poems about matters
too worn after many years of country life, of hurt feelings or sad passions. The verses were good,
an ingenious mechanism, free, unplanned, but little lyrical short, although the author's intentions
were much. Feelings were weak, but vulgar, and weak ideas. Apart form that, I repeat, by their
rare qualities disagreed sharply with the undeniable weakness of the fund, it seemed that trial
of a young man in verse expands and is believed poet because some music interior puts you in the
way of the cadences and urges him to speak with words rhymed.

Such, at least, I think, and not having to keep considerations why the author, whose name unknown,
gave it to meet Sunday with the same harshness that I write now.

- I then tried the poet, and well judged, neither more nor less than himself. Would you used
as brave if I had known that the verses were mine?

- Absolutely - I said a bit bewildered.

- So much the better. That shows me - continued Sunday - the same thing on me rather than in
poor esteem you what I'm worth. Two other volumes of force similar to this one. Also are mine.
Have the right to deny it because they do not contain my name, but
would not you, of course, the person to hide weaknesses I know that
sooner or later you in full.

I, like many others, I owe anything to these trials failed relief and useful lessons. Showing
me that I am nothing, I've done has given me far those who are something.

What I say is modest half, but you will not miss that does not distinguish
modesty of pride when you know how I am permitted to confuse them.

There were two men on Sunday: it was not difficult to guess. "Every man carries within himself
one or many dead ", I had that case, the doctor, who also suspected an great renunciation in
the life of peasant Trembles. But that no longer existed, was there, even, given signs of
life? And to what extent? What time? Had he betrayed some After his incognito with more than
two books anonymous and ignored? ...

I took the two books that had not opened Sunday, the title was known to me. The author, whose
name had not had time to penetrate deep into the memory of people who read, occupied to honor
a mid-level post in the political literature of fifteen years ago. No Bids had informed me that
he lived and wrote yet. It was part of the small discrete number of writers who are never
known anything but the title of their works whose name reaches fame
without them out of the shadows, and may disappear or be removed the
world without the public, which does not communicate with them more
than for his writing, comes to know what one has been.

I repeated the titles of the books and the author's name, watched Sunday, and understanding you
guessed it, grinned and said:

- Above all you linsonjee no publicist to console the poet. The real difference more is that between
the two is that the press has dealt with the first and not made equal after the second. If
I had reason to be silent about the one, not wrong to While welcoming
the other?

He had many reasons - continued - to change the name as soon as I serious reasons to keep anonymous
reasons that did not emanate only from considerations literary prudence
and modesty well understood.

You see I did well, since nobody knows today that he who signed my books prosaically be concluded
mayor of his town and vineyards.

- "And do not you write? - I asked.

- Ah, no! ... That's it. Moreover, since I have nothing to do, I can say I do not have time
for anything. As for my son, here's what I think about it. If I had become what I am not,
consider that the family had Bray produced enough, that his mission
was accomplished, my son just had to find rest.

But Providence has provided otherwise, the roles are exchanged.

Is this better or worse for him? I leave the outline of an incomplete life he completed, if
I remember correctly. Nothing just, everything is transmitted up to expectations.

After leaving the room inhabited by ghosts dangerous which included a multitude of temptations should
harass, Sunday around being the farmer Trembles. He ran a loving words to his wife and children,
took the shotgun, called the dogs and if heaven smiled going to end the day in the field soaked
with water.

Lasted until November that easy life, family, without major expansions, but leaving Sunday sober
and confident that knew how to put in everything that was not mixed with issues his personal life.
Liked the field as a child and made no secret, but spoke of him as
a man living in the countryside, not writer who sings it.

There were words I never uttered his lips, because I never met a man who was more bashful than he
in a certain order of ideas, and confession of feelings called poetry was an ordeal that was
well above of their forces.

The field had a passion so sincere, though contained in the form, filled it voluntary delusions
and urged him to forgive many things to the villagers but they recognize ignorant and full
of defects and even vices.

He lived in constant contact with them, but did not share their customs, and tastes even one
of their prejudices. The extreme simplicity his suit, his ways and his life was all pretext of superiority
that none of the who treated him had suspected. All in Villanueva had been born, grow, and then
some years of absence turn to their home country and settle in it. There were old for whom with forty-five
years and was always Dominguito, but of all who passed daily Trembles near the castle and recognized
on the second floor, right hand, that room it was his teenage boy's room, not one suspected, indeed,
the world ideas and feelings between him and them.

I talked about that Dominic received visits and meet me again on this matter because an event
which was, to some extent, control, and that impressed him deeply.

Among the friends gathered as usual to celebrate Trembles Saint Hubert was one of the oldest
comrades Sunday, called D'Orsel, very rich, lived in retirement,
it was said, no family, a castle to a dozen miles from Villanueva.

D'Orsel was the same age as his old comrade, although her hair blond
and shaved his face were party to represent some years younger.

He was nice guy, dressed very well, distinguíanle seductive ways so cultured, and an inveterate dandyism
in the gestures and words, which were a real attraction. In his whole moral being abandoned or much
indifference or much pretense. Was enthusiastic about hunting and horses, and having adored
travel and not travel. Parisian by adoption, almost by birth, one day it was learned who had left
Paris without anyone being able to determine the cause of this withdrawal, and had gone to lock
himself in his castle Orsel all alone.

His life was truly strange.

As a place of refuge and oblivion leaving see very little, not having anyone, did not explain
his behavior rather than because of despair, since he was a man still young, rich, in whom it
was reasonable to assume, if no great passions, burning alive at least very different character.
Uneducated, but hearsay had acquired a degree of intellectual culture, expressed lofty contempt
for books and deep sympathy for those who devoted themselves to writing. To do that! After all
the existence is well cut and not worth it to take many concerns ... And more talent holding
the view that common logic of the broken hearted justify anything more than that was considered
one of them. What had to be more sensitive in that character - a bit fuzzy, as if covered with a layer
of dust alone, and original features of which were beginning to wear - a sort of passion was
indecisive and not extinct at the same time, the luxury, large artificial pleasures and vanities
of life.
 Thus saith Thiodolf:

  'Saturday the prince casts off the long land tilts,
  There where the widows proud the serpent watch,
  As she glideth from the town.
  West from the Nid thereafter the King doth steer,
  Into the sea drop the oars of his men.
  Move can they, the King's lads, the straight oars in the water.
  The widows stand and wonder at the oar-strokes so swift,
  The thole knows hurt when seventy oars do move her
  I' the water ere the war-folk on the sea their oars do strain.
  Northmen the serpent row (nailed is she)
      out on the billow-stream icy;
  'Tis eagles' wings that we behold.'

¶ Southward sailed King Harald with his host alongside the land, so that he might call out
a general muster of men and ships. But when they were come eastward, and were off Vik, arose
a strong contrary wind wherefore was the fleet obliged to stand in for harbour, making such
havens as were to be found in the skerries as well as those in the fjords.

Quoth Thiodolf:

  'Lee have the shaven hulls of the ships under the woods,
  The King's war-host towards land doth lean with its prow beams. 

MANILA

Font establishment of Modesto Reyes and Ca

Salcedo, 190.

Santa Cruz.

1901

Professor Dean C. Worcester

dedicates this work

.= = The Author

ETYMOLOGY

OF

NAMES
OF RACES OF THE PHILIPPINES

BY THE

Dr. TH Pardo de Tavera.

After the story of a thousand and five hundred islands that make up
the Philippine Archipelago is that of the "hundreds of races that
inhabit the islands Babylonian confusion," as says a geographical
lyrical author who wrote about this country.

By omission of rocks, boulders, insignificant islets, many without
vejetación, others with only one species of birds and some insects
and wildlife, and most without a human being who will live in them,
are, as inhabited islands and only have, being the Philippines, a
few from Luzon, which is the largest, to that of Cagayancillo, which
is one of the tiniest.

So it is with the famous 'races' pompous name whose meaning has been
confused by applying it to political groups in no different from each
other.

Recent ethnographic studies have shown that the races that inhabit
our islands are three, viz: Negritos, Indonesian and Malay.

But these breeds are not only various miscegenation but a great variety of tribes mainly characterized
by languages ​​or, rather speak Filipino dialects. If we will found in linguistic reasons for
give names to the different groups of men, the number of races called Philippine to be quite
grown, not yet come to the figure reached today and the teacher Blumentritt had the patient
work together in alphabetical order a brochure published in Spanish with the title "The races of
the Philippine archipelago."

As powerfully clear linguistic studies anthropological issues, I believed that would be useful
to information to establish the etymology of the names today apply
to the different tribes, with the name of races, Philippines.

Political divisions of the islands almost always respond to divisions based on language, so that,
beginning with taking charge of the names that characterize the provinces when these are applied
to groups that speak the same language, found on the island of Luzon the following: Tagalog, Pampanga,
Bicol, Pangasinan, sambal, Ilocano, Ibanag or Cagayan. After see that within each of these provinces
have different tribes, many with language carrying different, for this reason or another unknown,
a different name.

Visayas applies to three dialects spoken in Cebu, Iloilo and Negros: Calamian or Cuyo is also
pool name linguist and Mindanao to get see that not a territorial
division the character is already in Luzon.

Many tribes have by name, a geographical name: another reason is discovered topographic, or local
customs, or other relationship with neighboring tribes. Sometimes names are simply applied to local
residents, other times the source the name does not appear so clear and to discover its etymology
is to start by decomposing to discover the root as discussed below.

For convenience we divide the names that we shall study in the following groupings:

Compounds with the prefix Taga. "With the prefix I. "With the prefix A. "With the prefix Ma
"With the Non prefix. "With the prefix and suffix Ka W 'in other ways.

* * * * *

TAGA prefix.

This prefix, to join names, it means "native of it, natural."

       Used alone, has no significance whatsoever and we find the following
names to form clusters Ethnic: TAGALOG, TAGABALOY, TAGABAWA, TAGABULU,
TAGABELI, TAGACAOLO, TAGABANUA or Tagbanúas, etc. etc.

The meaning
of such code is provided for us Polynesian languages: in Samoa is
called taga-ta man, in Tahiti, losing the g we find the word taa-ta.

It is therefore undoubtedly that taga, prefix with no real meaning
today as isolated voice, originally meant "man."

Now, consider the etymology of the other voices to which we find attached, to name tribes more
or less important.

One of the major linguistic groups in the Philippines is composed
of the Tagalog with which name are called the inhabitants of the provinces
of Manila, Bulak, Nueva Ecija, Bataan, part of Tarlac, Laguna, Tayabas
and the District of Morong, with about 1,250,000 individuals.

There is no doubt that in the old, all these men were not called Tagalog, this was named a
fraction Manila lived and, by extension, be applied by the Spanish to all those who spoke the same
language. This percentage was the one who lived in Tondo, Manila and Basin peoples Pasig, therefore,
some ancient authors, by etymology of how it sounds, explained the formation of the word as a
contraction of taga-ilog "inhabitant the river, "but this is not
possible, because if so there would be missing the point t, and even
if this had happened, it could not have been as pronounced tagalog
in the second but where required tagalog the phonetics of the word
with similar origins.

Some authors have assumed that this name was a composite of alog which means "ford" where Tagalog
mean "men or people of the ford." Nor are we satisfied with the explanation, and more logical
to accept that from the root alog, in Pangasinan, means "land low water is full of rain ", precisely
because the indigenous people to the arrival of Tagalog called the Spanish in the Manila region,
inhabited, as now, land and low-lying. Probably in those days were called alog those lands,
and the name, outdated and obsolete in today's Tagalog, has been only in Pangasinan.

The Indians who inhabited the highlands as today called taga-Bukit (bukit 'land high) and the
mountains taga-bundok (bundok, "the mountain").

In the lagoon itself, the inhabitants its banks were known by the name of taga-Doong, so people
also called of the plain. Doong means' pier, place, or cuddle shore where boats. "

While in Manila called taga-bundok to the Highlanders, in Laguna knew they by Tinguianes.

I had read some authors hit the floor ting, noting the difference the language that existed
between the inhabitants of the Ting and valleys.

Undoubtedly wanted once say 'mountain', and that meaning, lost today in Tagalog, there is still
Malay. Looking for references to this voice, I found the following in the Words of Fr Santos: "The
Ting are from the mountains of San Pablo by Nagcarlan to Calaylayan, where he was Header formerly
Tayabas, and then run the hills of Cabinti up Ulinguling, that is
top of Mabitac.

"A few lines before he said:" The Ting own or woodlands which leaves no doubt as to the significance
attached to this voice.

From left Tinguian tingui formed with its fixed an serving here to name people.

The inhabitants of the province now called Batangas not initially called Tagalog. Fr San Agustin,
in his History, says (p. 424): "Speak Tagalog language, which calls Comintana, all that land by
province called COMINT. "

We can not find the etymology of COMINT, but look the other names that we statement with the prefix
taga.

Tagabawa is the name given to the mestizo means Bagobos, Manobo and tagakaolos that by Montano,
are scattered on both sides of the gulf of Davao (Mindanao) near Son River. Bawa means "below the
bottom", referring no doubt to river because those who live upriver
from the same region are called taga-Kaol being the meaning of ka-olo,
"part towards the head, or the origin of the river."

In Mindanao, known also the tagabaloy, a name which may be a variant of tagabeli and tagabulu,
probably originated from the name of Laguna Bulu-an, but here we would enter in the realm of hypothesis,
because we lack (and I speak personally for me), news topographic and linguists firm enough
to talk about things in Mindanao.

We know that in the language of many of those tribes in the Bagobos, for example, taga prefix has
the same meaning as in Tagalog and wider still, because there is significance of man who possesses
or has this or that object, preceded by the prefix.

On the island of Paragua, Palawan or live on the coast Moors who came from Jolo and Mindanao
and within some indigenous idolaters, considered Aboriginal struggle with the sea and who
call themselves Tagbanuas.

Banu, the voice of Polynesian origin (fenua, "land") means in most of the Visayan languages
​​"land, country and population also." Clearly Tagbanúas is understood that means "man of
the country" or in other words, "Indians." On the island of Panay was formerly called and also
tagubanua tagolabon banuanon and a god who, they said, lived in the fields and woods. We should
note that in this name see linguists two procedures: the first is used as the Tagalog, using
the affix taga, and the second form with the suffix non Bikol has the same meaning.

* * * * *

       Prefix I.

Almost all compounds with the kennel name I belong to most hill tribes Northern Luzon are: Ibalibon,
Ibilaw, Ifugaw, Igorots (Igolot) Ilongot, Isinay, Iraya, Italon, Itawe. Ilokano é Ibanag that
inhabit the plains, the Ibalon in South Luzon and The Idan in Paragua.

To find their etymologies will resort to the language spoken by the kagayanes, the Ilokano and gaddanes
that are most important to that region.

The prefix I in Ibanag, a language spoken by the indigenous civilizations that inhabited the regions
Call Cagayan and Isabela, has the same meaning as in Tagalog taga. Says P. Splendor Cave in grammar
Ibanag that 'prefixed to the names of provinces, kingdoms and towns,
a patrician names: eg Ilal-loc, Lal-loc man, I Spain, a man of Spain.

"

Ibanag the same name, means "inhabitant of Banaga," which is the name of the river called Grande
de Cagayan.

Originally called Ibanag to the inhabitants of the shores of that Aparry river from which population
is nearby the sea, to the region called disseminate, and more properly from Aparri to Takalawa,
a district of Lalo, to Gataran.

Based on this principle, let us see the etymology of the other names mentioned, noting that, as we
know them today in its Spanish form, we begin by deprive them of the foreign elements that appear
in your build, to consider only an indigenous form.

The italones (italon) lived in the ancient forests that extend to the northeast tip of Pampanga,
being now in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Principe.

Language Gadda, heel means "mountain" in what follows that italon means "mountain." Comes in
support of this interpretation of Itaú supply faucets, strictly itaw depriving them of the termination
indicating plural is Castilian, which is the name of some infidels living in the plains adjacent to
the above. In Gadda, voice taw means "sowing."

Iday, said Blumentritt, which is the name of a dialect of Negritos of Cagayan, however, is but
a variant called Iraya with a tribe of savages, apparently mixed the Negritos and Malays,
who live south of the Kalataganes on the western side of the mountain range Palawan. Daya,
Raya or Saya means "East" and "South" in several languages N. region of Luzon, but in this case,
refers to E. because, although we know that they are to S. of kalataganes is not the topographical
relationship to these giving them the name but their situation with respect to the Itetapanes.
Here are some Montagnards living in the O. of Isabela de Luzon, west
of the Iday and the name says so, because in Ibanag, Telapan Tatalapan
and means the 'West'.

The Katalanganes are the same men who Iraya speak the language these and its name comes from
the river on whose banks they inhabit, name which, in turn, is derived from Talang, a pine
species in those sites grows in abundance.

Commonly called Igorots the savages who inhabit the mountains of Luzon and even other islands,
but in the ancient chronicles Filipino known only to that name Igolot or rather, in true Indian
form, the infidels living in Benguet and nearby Mount Sto. Thomas. Now understood to also appoint
the bloodthirsty savages North of Luzon, but the German ethnographer Hans Meyer and then Dr. Schadenberg,
say should only be so called infidels who inhabit Benguet and Lepanto. The fact is that Tinguian
same as the voice Igorot in the Philippines is used as synonymous with "savage mountain." This
name means the same as Tinguian 'quiet' in Tagalog root Golota, who composes, means "mountain
range" and though this voice is not the only dictionary Ibanag that
form there, you can not say why that was not known in that language,
as known in ancient tinguished voice in Tagalog.

It's called a dialect spoken inibaloy by the Igorots and this voice, in Ilocano, simply means
"language of foreigners."

The so-called infidels Isinays are about living in the western part of the Nueva Vizcaya also
known by the name of Ituyes by province formerly called the county Ituy they inhabit. Its etymology
does not seem very clear: sina, in Ilocano means "segregation separation
of persons' voice that I find acceptable as a radical of the name
of tribe when you consider that one of them is called Ilongot longot
formed a word that in Ilocano means "meeting, assembly, aggregation
of people."

These same Ilongots, customs and bloodthirsty savages who inhabit the regions bordering the provinces
of Nueva Vizcaya, Isabela and Principe, are also called ibilaos, (Indigenous form is ibilaw),
whose etymology, try as I have done, is for me complete darkness. The italones that we mentioned
before, are of the same tribe race: at least Dominican missionaries
say the peoples italones New High Ecija, belong to the ibilaos and
these are also known by the name of Ilongot.

Another large tribe of Malay race who lived in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Isabela, is Ifugaw
call that appears to be one of the most ancient of Luzon, whose etymology is explained the Ibanag
where we see that iafugw means "island." Today, all of that race, forming groups called silipanes,
quianganes, Mayoyao and bungianes (names topographic) have been re-concentrated
to form the villages and towns of the command of Qiang.

Is known to yogades (yogad) or to a montañeces gaddañes currently living on the slopes of the Cordillera
Central, the western boundary of the province of Isabela, from the
left bank of the Magat River, river end of the Mercedes, to the jurisdiction
Christian peoples Itawes.

The etymology of both names gives us Ibanag language resembles both Gadda, resulting Gadd and yogad
that have the same meaning and origin, only the first is the name of second place and the tribe.
Both radical derived from gad ugad whose oldest form, there also in Ibanag and means "sowing
high." This root, followed by the suffix an, means "Instead of sowing high" as we saw payaw meant
"low sowing or irrigation." The inhabitants of Gadda, called today so this place name, met in the
old by personal names, which is formed with the prefix yogad i know
the meaning of which and the radical equal to gad ugad we have examined.

Have

failed my research on the etymology of other names such as some suppose ILOKO Influenced by
the analogy, derived from ilog 'dweller river, "without noting that the radical referred to ends
with g, and examined by voice k: i also the word ilog, river, not as in ILOKO, a prefix, but
an integral part radical. I can not say anything about Ibalon, the old name that was given to the
people of Camarines.

Ilamut, Igorot tribe that resides in the mountains located between Nueva Vizcaya and Benguet,
radical seems formed lamut Gadda, "mixture", meaning perhaps mestizo is etymology only probable.

Iday
is variable yraya already examined.

Ilan, Illanes, lanos, wool, malanao are names given to certain people pirates the coast of Mindanao.
Are different forms of composition of wool or lanun name radical
geographical part of that island.

       

* * * * *

Ma Prefix

In almost all Philippine languages ​​contraction May or ma or me is
a prefix meaning 'Have, possess.

" With him are adjectives. Putian, white radical, it is maputi, "that is white ", ie white tamis
matamís of having or has sweetness," sweet. "

There is thus an infinite number of names that have been applied after the inhabitants of Instead,
as Maguindanaw, Malanaw Mamanuas, &. &.

Maguindanaw is the indigenous name of the island of Mindanao or rather, only part of it. Its inhabitants
are called the same way. Continued Danaw, water and lagoon, and applied this name to this region
around the great lake of Danaw.

For the Moors called Illanes, Ilan Malanaw are also referred to, has the same derivation that Maguindanaw:
lanaw, danaw variant, and the voice Illan, strictly speaking Ilan
has the same i affix origin, used more in the languages ​​of the north
of the archipelago.

The mamanuas are some infidels who inhabit the Surigao peninsula and the shores of Lake of
Mainit (Mindanao).

Fr Jaime Planas Jesuit calls them "black natives of Mindanao" view identical to that of the Jesuit
PJB Heras confirmed by the French ethnographer Mr. Montano. The etymology comes to corroborate
this view, showing that the name of those black boys Banu is derived from land, country; mamanua
"inhabitants of the country" with a phonetic transformation of b in m.
A mountain tribe of infidels in the interior of Mindanao, whose district
is not known to me accuracy, or mananapes mananap called in Spanish
form. Language of Bagobos, mananap means "beast, animal" thus explains
the concept of these neighbors have those in the same island called
Manobo, Bagobo voice that means "man."

These Manobo are Malay and
inhabit the Agusan River Basin from Moncayo to Butuan: also found
in other sites on the island mainly at Cape San Agustin in east coast
of Davao and the island of Sarangani Tumanao or the East. Also is
named to the other idolatrous infidels in Mindanao, and is easy to
understand that this term embraces distant tribes to be so widespread
and attending to what it really means. The sending of these messages appeared prone to bring about
concord, for in the end a peace-meeting was agreed upon in the River betwixt King Harald and
King Svein. When spring-tide was come both Kings called out many men and ships for this journey.
Saith a skald in a poem:

  'Leader of arméd men, he who the ground engirdles
  From Eyrasund northward shuts with his long-ship's prows
  The land (the haven spurned he).
  Gleaming with gold the stems cut the waves keenly;
  Onward of Halland west, with host aboard, and the keels thrilling.
  Harald firm-oathed!
      oft hast thou the earth engirdled with thy ships;
  Svein, too, through the sound sailed the King to meet.
  Praise-dight filler of ravens, who every bay doth close,
  Hath out a teeming host of Danes, from the south all.'

¶ It is said here that these Kings kept to their agreement, to wit, that there should be a
meeting betwixt them; and that both came to the marches. It is set forth thus below:

  'Shrewd leader of arméd men
  To trysting south once more
  Thou sailst as all Danes wished
  (No lesser was thy purpose).
  Svein now to the northward fares
  The land-marches nigh,
  The tryst to keep with Harald--
  Windy was the weather off the land.'

¶ When the Kings were come face to face the one with other forthwith betwixt them was broached
ye matter of peace; and no sooner was this opened than many men made plaint of the harm they
had suffered through war-fare, rapine, and the slaying of men. 

Spirit had seized him. Did not know what purpose it got there, so far from the part of the garden
where they lived theirs, and eventually drop into a field hemp to the roadside. Soon his drunken
snores sounded painful between the green and upright stems.

When he awoke it was already late afternoon. I felt heaviness in the head and stomach weary. Ears tingled,
and her mouth pasted perceived taste horrible. What was there near the garden of the Jew?
What had gone so far? His honesty made him ashamed primitive of this degradation, and tried to stand
to flee. The pressure produced on its sickle stomach cross belt gave him chills.

By joining stuck his head between hemp and saw a turn of the road to an old man I walked slowly,
wrapped in a layer.

Barret felt all his blood was up at once to the head, which reappeared his drunkenness, and
sat up, pulling the scythe .... And yet say the devil is not good?

There was her man, the same he wanted to see from the previous day.

The old usurer had hesitated long before leaving home. Something stung him Uncle Barret, the event
was recent and the garden is treacherous.

But the fear in drawing its absence in the orange grove was stronger than their fears, and thinking
that the farm was away from the shed attached, stood in the road.

And stood to contemplate his garden, and laughed at the fear last jump of the bed when he saw Barrett
himself hemp, and it seemed a huge demon, red face, arms outstretched, preventing any leakage,
cornered at the edge of the ditch that ran parallel to the road.

Believed to dream; crashed his teeth, his face green stood and dropped his coat, revealing
a dirty old coat and rolled up to his neck scarves. So great was his terror and confusion, until
he spoke in Castilian.

- Barret! My son - he gasped -. Everything was a joke, never mind. What happened yesterday was
to make it a little scared ... nothing more. You're going to continue on the land .... Spend morning
at home ... talk. Pay me as you see fit.

And bend your body, keeping you close the Barret.

Intended to drain, run away the terrible scythe, whose blade broke a ray of sunshine and blue skies
reproduced.

As was the ditch behind him, could not find room to move, and threw the body behind seeks to cover
the clasped hands.

The farmer smiled like a hyena, showing his sharp teeth and poor whites.

- Liar! Liar! - Answered with a voice like a snore.

And moving the tool from side to side, seeking to wound site, preventing thin hands and desperate
to be put forward.

- But Barret! My son! What is this? ... Put that gun ... do not play .... You are a man honest
... think of your daughters. I repeat that was a joke. Come tomorrow and I will make the call
.... Oooh! ...

It was a horrible roar, a cry of wounded beast. Sickle tired of obstacles, had shot down one
stroke of the clenched hands. Hung from the tendons and skin, and red blood stump threw hard,
splashing to Barret, who roared to receive in the face of the hot spray.

Faltered the old man on his legs, but before falling to the ground, horizontally split sickle against
his neck, y. .. Bang! complicated cutting sheath tissues, opened a deep cleft separating the
head near the trunk.

Don Salvador fell in the ditch, his legs were in the ditch, blown by a kick slaughtered beef
funeral. Meanwhile, head buried in the mud, let go of all its blood in the deep gap and water
stained red, following its course with a gentle placid murmur glad the solemn silence of the afternoon.

Barrett
remained planted on the bank like an idiot.

Much blood was the guy thief! The canal, the red, seemed more mighty.

Suddenly, the farmer, dominated by terror, began to run, as if afraid that the stream of blood drown
the overflow.

Before ending the day the news spread like a cannon shot that shook
the entire valley.

Have you seen hypocritical gesture, the glad silence with a town that hosts the ruler's death
you press? ... So cried the garden of Don Salvador's disappearance. Everyone guessed the Barret's
hand, and nobody spoke. The barracks had opened for him his last hiding; women would have hidden
under their skirts.

But the murderer wandered like a madman through the garden, avoiding
people, lying behind of the slopes, crouching under the bridges, escaping
across the fields, frightened by the barking of dogs, until the day
after the Civil Guard found him sleeping in a haystack.

For six months only spoke in the garden of Barret.

Sunday went like a pilgrimage for men and women to prison in Valencia to watch through the bars to
the poor "liberator" increasingly gaunt, with sunken eyes and look worried.

Came the view of the process, and sentenced him to death.

The news made a deep impression on the plain, cures and mayors moving they stood for avoid such
a shame .... District One sitting on the scaffold!

As Barrett had been always docile, voting as the chief and ordered that passively obeying sent,
there were trips to Madrid for his life, and the pardon was timely.

The farmer left the jail made a mummy, and was taken to prison in Ceuta, for to die there a few
years.

Disolvióse his family, disappeared as a handful of straw in the wind.

Daughters, one after another, were leaving the families that had been collected and moved to
Valencia to earn a living as maids, and the poor old, tired to bother with disease, left the
hospital, dying shortly afterwards.

The people of the garden, with the ease with which all the world to forget the misery of others,
barely remembered now and again the terrible tragedy of Barret, wondering
what would be their daughters.

But nobody forgot the camps and barracks, remaining one and another in the same state the day
when justice drove the unfortunate settler.

Was this a tacit agreement of all the garden, a plot instinctive,
in the preparation barely saying a word, but even the trees and the
roads seemed to get into it.

Pimento had said the day of the disaster. "To see who was the handsome dare to get into that
land! "

And all the people of the garden, even the women and children, seemed
to answer with their eyes of mutual understanding, "Yes, to see."

Parasitic plants, thistles, began to emerge from the cursed land that
Barret was kicked and stabbed with a sickle on the last night, as
if sensing that her fault die in prison.

The children of Don Salvador, some rich men as greedy as his father,
mired in creyéronse misery because the piece of land remained unproductive.

A

farmer resident of another district in the garden, the man who never missed handsome had enough
land, he felt tempted by the low price of the lease and to go through with to all fields that
inspired fear.

I was going to till the land with the gun on his shoulder, he and
his servants were laughing at the loneliness they let the neighbors,
the barracks were closed to his step, and followed them from afar
hostile glances.

Much the farmer watched, sensing an ambush, but it was useless caution,
because one afternoon when I returned alone to his house, when he
still had not finished clearing their new fields, you dropped it out
two shotguns, but saw the attacker, and miraculously came unscathed
from the handful of BBs that he passed to his ears.

On the roads did not see anyone. Not a new track. He had been pulled from a ditch, ambushed the
shooter behind the Canar.

With enemies and could not fight, and the bully, on the same night,
gave the keys of the cabin to their masters.

You had to listen to the children of Don Salvador.

Is it that there was no government or security for property ... or anything?

Pimento was undoubtedly the author of the attack, which prevented
the fields were cultivated and the Civil Guard seized the check from
the garden, taking him to prison.

But when it came to the statements, all paraded before the district
court affirming Pimento's innocence, but to those rustic rogues they
could start a contradictory word.

All recited the same lesson. Even old ailing never left their barracks declared that day, at the
same time that they heard the two shots, was in a tavern Pimento Alboraya of carousing with
friends.

Nothing could be against these people and look stupid gesture candida, scratching his neck lied
with such aplomb, Pimento was released, and all the barracks came a sigh of triumph and satisfaction.

Since
the test was made: everyone would know in future that the cultivation
of those lands paid to the skin.

Did not give the greedy masters. Cultivate the land themselves, and sought laborers between people
suffered and submissive, smelling of rough wool and misery, low in search of work, driven from
hunger, from the ends of the province, from the border mountains to Aragon.

In the garden he pitied the poor churros. Woe! Iban to earn a wage, what fault theirs? And at
night, when he retired with a hoe over his shoulder, there was always a good soul who called from the
door of the tavern's Cup were in, the guests to drink and then we
were talking in his ear with his face grim and parental stress and
mild as one who counsels a child to avoid the danger.

And the result was that the docile churros the next day instead of going to the field, mass presented
themselves to the owners of the land.

- My lord, we come to pay us.

And they were frustrated all the arguments of the two bachelors, furious at being attacked in
their greed.

- My master - answered everything -: semos probes, but we have not encontrao life behind a
haystack.

Not only left the job, but passing notice to all his countrymen to
flee from earn a wage in the fields of Barret, and those who shun
the devil.

The landowners asked for protection even in the public papers. And pairs of Civil Guard were to
run the orchard, to bet on the roads, to surprise gestures and conversation, always unsuccessfully.

Every
day looked the same: women sewing and singing in the vines, the men
in the fields, bent, eyes on the ground, giving no rest to the active
arms; Pimento tending to the great man sticks to the league, hoping
to birds, or helping Pepeta to clumsy and lazy, in the tavern a few
old Cup sunbathing or playing trick.

The landscape breathed peace and honest bestiality was a Moorish Arcadia. But The guild did
not trust, no farmer wanted the land or even for free, and so the masters had to abandon his
efforts, allowing it to be covered with weeds and that barrack is
shut down, awaiting the arrival of a man of good will can of shopping
or work.

The garden trembled with pride seeing how that wealth was lost and the heirs of Don Salvador
became the "holy."

It was a new and intense pleasure. Ever had to impose the poor and the rich get below. And the
drive seemed more delicious bread, good wine, the lighter work, imagining tantrums of two greedy,
that with all his money had to suffer the rustic orchard fun of them.

In addition, this spot of devastation and misery in the midst of the meadow was used for the
other owners were less demanding and taking example in neighboring leases would not increase
and it took up when the semester to take effect.

The desolate fields were the talisman that kept closely united to the huerta, continuous elbows
touch, a monument proclaiming its power over the owners, the miracle of solidarity of misery against
the laws and the wealth of those who are lords of the land without
working or sweat on their lumps.

All this confused thought, made them believe that the day when the
fields were Barret cultivated the garden would suffer all kinds of
misfortune.

And do not imagine, after a win ten years, he could enter another person abandoned fields that
Tomba, a blind pastor and talkative, that in the absence of audience, recounted his daily
exploits guerrilla dirty his flock of sheep.

From here the gasps of amazement and anger expression across the garden when Pimento from field
to field and in barracks hut, was making it known that the land had Barret and tenant, a stranger,
and that 'he' ... "Him!" - Whoever he was - was there with all his family, settling without
hesitation ... 'As if it was yours! "

III

Batiste, to inspect the uncultivated land, there was said to work
for a long time.

Though this could not feel discouraged.

He was an energetic man, entrepreneur, seasoned to the struggle for win the bread. There he
was 'very long', as he said, and also comforted remembering trances that had seen worse.

His past life was a continual change of profession, always within the circle of misery rural,
moving every year automatically, without a finding for family well-being mean that was all his aspiration.

When
he met his wife, was young mill near Sagunto.

Then working "Like a wolf" - he said so - so that your home is not missing anything, and God rewarded
his diligence by sending each year a son, beautiful creatures that seemed to be born with
teeth according to the hurry that arose in the chest maternal leave to ask for bread at all hours.

Result:
they had to leave the mill and devoted to roads, in search of greater profits.

Bad luck pursued him. No one as he tended the cattle and watch the
march.

Dead dream, never dared, as partners, to sleep in the car, leaving the animals march guided by instinct.
Watched at all hours, was always close to nag front, avoiding the deep potholes and missteps, and
yet, if a truck poured was his, if an animal fell ill because of the rains was surely Batiste in
spite of paternal care with which he rushed to cover the flanks of the beasts burlap trappings
fell just four drops.

In a few years of strenuous pilgrimage along the roads of the province,
eating bad, sleeping in the open and suffering the torment of spending
months on end away from family, that I love with affection reconcentrated
rude and silent man, only experienced Batiste losses and saw their
situation increasingly compromised.

He died trapped hacks and had to buy others.

What it worth continuing swollen skins carrying wine or oil barges lost in the hands of builders and
car, until it was time, seeing next ruin, left the office.

He took some land near Sagunto: dry fields, red and eternally thirsty in which twisted its ancient
carob hollow trees or olive trees raised their powdered round heads.

His life was a continuous battle with drought, a continuing look at the sky, trembling with emotion
whenever a small black cloud looming on the horizon.

Little rain, the crops were bad for four years, and Batiste did not know what to do or where to
go, when on a trip to Valencia met the sons of Don Salvador, a great masters (God bless),
who gave that beauty of fields, free lease for two years until they completely regain their
status of other times.

Something he heard what had happened in the cabin, the causes that force the owners so beautiful
to keep unproductive land, but after going so long! ... In addition, misery has no ears, he
suited to the fields, and they left. What mattered old stories of
Don Salvador and Barret?

...

Forgot everything despised and contemplating their land. And Batiste felt himself possessed
of a sweet Ecstasy to be fertile orchard grower had so often envied
when he passed the road from Valencia to Sagunto.

That was land, evergreen, with the entrails of a crop breeding tireless after another, circling
the red water at all hours as life-giving blood for the many ditches
and sprinklers that plied its surface as a complex network of veins
and arteries fertile to feed whole families with tables, so small,
they seemed scarves foliage.

Sagunto dry fields recordábalos thirsty as hell, which fortunately had escaped.

Now he was really on track.

Business The fields were lost, was there much to do, but when you have good will ... And stretching,
the big man strong, muscular back of a giant, round head and a kindly
face sustained sheared by a thick neck, a monk, extending his powerful
arms, lifted her accustomed to sacks of flour and the heavy skins
of the cart.

So concerned was their land, who barely noticed the curious neighbors.

The restless heads poking among cañares or lying on his stomach on the slopes, Men stared at him,
little boys and even women of the barracks immediately.

Batiste did ignore them. It was the curiosity, expectation always inspire hostile newcomers. He
knew what that was, and would be accustomed. Also, maybe they were interested see how poverty burned
ten years of neglect had heaped upon the fields of Barret.

And helped by his wife and children, began to burn a day after his
arrival the whole parasitic vegetation.

Shrubs, after writhing in the flames, embers fell facts, escaping from their nasty bugs charred
ashes.

The hut appeared to be blurred between the clouds smoke of lamps, which aroused anger deaf throughout
the garden.

Once clean the land, Batiste, without wasting time, proceeded to its
cultivation.

Were harsh; but he, as an expert farmer, wanted to work slowly, in
sections, and setting a box near his hut, he began to remove the help
of his family land.

Neighbors burlábanse them all with an irony that betrayed his irritation.
Go a family! They were gypsies and those who sleep under bridges.
They lived in the old barracks the same as shipwrecked on a ship wrecked
endure: plugging a hole here shoring up there, doing real wonders
that would hold up the thatch, distributing its poor furniture, carefully
fregoteados in all rooms, which were before burrowing mice and bugs.

In
point of time-consuming, were like a herd of squirrels, unable to
sit still while the father worked. Teresa Rosetta women and the eldest
daughter, with her skirts gathered between legs and spade in hand,
digging more ardently than a laborer, resting only to turn back by
the hair falling on the red sweaty face. The eldest son was continuous
Valencia travel to the basket on his shoulder, carrying manure and
debris, placed in two piles, like columns of honor, at the entrance
of the building. The three little ones, serious and laborious, as
if they understood the plight of the family, went to all fours after
diggers, tearing lumps of hard burned shrub roots.

This preparatory
task lasted more than a week, sweating and panting family from dawn
till night.

Half of the land was removed. Batiste filed and styled
with the help of the old and spirited horse, which seemed to the family.

Had
to come to his crop, were in San Martin, the time of sowing and the
farmer cleared land divided into three parts. The higher in wheat,
a smaller frame for beans and other plant for fodder, it was not something
to forget the Morrut, the good old nag. Well it had won.

And with
the joy of that after a laborious navigation discover the port, the
family proceeded to planting. The future was assured. The lands of
the garden did not deceive, hence would bread for the whole year.

The
afternoon saw the planting was completed by the immediate way forward
a few sheep of dirty fleece, fearful that they stopped at the edge
of the field.

Behind them came an old parchment, yellow, eyes sunken
in the deep orbits and mouth surrounded by a halo of wrinkles. Progressed
slowly, with steps firm, but with the staff ahead of testing the waters.

The
family looked at him intently. Was the only one in the two weeks that
there were dared to approach the land. Noting the hesitation of his
sheep, he shouted for them to go forward.

Batiste went to meet the
old. Could not happen: the lands are now cultivated. Did not you know?
...

Some of it had heard the old Tomba, but in the past two weeks
had led his flock to graze the weeds in the cliff of Carraixet, without
worrying about these fields .... Really now they were grown?

And
the old shepherd moved his head to make efforts to see with their
eyes almost dead bold man who dared to do what all the garden was
as impossible.

He paused a while, and finally began to murmur sadly

"Too
bad, he also, in his youth he had been dared: he liked to wear them
all the opposite. But when too many enemies ... Too bad, she had gone
into a difficult step. Those land, after the poor Barret, were cursed.
I could believe him, that was old and experienced, would bring misfortune.
"

And the pastor called his herd, to march him down the road, and
before leaving threw the blanket back, raising his emaciated arms,
and some chanting wizard that predicts the future or a prophet who
sniffs the ruin, he shouted to Batiste:

- Creume, fill meu: desgrasia
will carry you !...[ 4]

[4] - Believe me, my son will bring disgrace!
...

From this meeting arose another reason for anger to the entire
garden. King Harald lay at
these isles a while or ever set he sail for the Orkneys, & from these latter took he with him
many men & the Earls Paal and Erling, twain sons to Thorfin the Earl, but behind him left he
there Queen Ellisif & their daughters Mary & Ingigerd. Thereafter sailed he southward alongside
Scotland, & then alongside England, and went ashore there where it is called Cleveland.

And being come on land forthwith harried he the countryside, bringing it into subjection under
him, & withal encountering no resistance. Ten
years of neglect had hardened the ground, drawing from its neglected innards all parasitic plants,
all the thorns which God has created for the punishment of the farmer. A dwarf jungle, tangled
and misshapen spread over those fields, with a wave of foreign shades of green, tinged here and there
by mysterious and rare flowers, the kind that only arise in the ruins and cemeteries.

Under the foliage of the jungle tiny and encouraged by the safety of his lair, grew and multiplied
all sorts of nasty, spilling into neighboring fields: Rough-backed green lizards, giant beetles
with metallic shimmer shell, spiders short-legged and hairy, even snakes that glide immediate ditches.
There living in the heart of the beautiful and neat plain, forming separate world, devouring
one to others, and even cause harm to the neighbors, they were respected with a certain reverence,
for the seven plagues of Egypt seemed little to those of the garden to throw on those lands are
cursed.

As Barret lands would never be for men, were nesting in them bicharraco disgusting, and the more
the merrier.

In the middle of these desolate fields, which stood out on the beautiful plain as a stain of
dirt in a regal cloak of green velvet, rose the cabin, or rather this, falling, with straw
cap of gutted, teaching through the openings pierced the wind rain and its rotten wooden ribbing.
The walls, scratched by water, showed their raw clay bricks, no more than a very slight white spots
that exposed the former whitewashed. The door was broken underneath, gnawed by rats, with cracks
that cut from one extreme to another. Two or three windows, completely open and martyred by
gales, hung from one hinge, and were to fall at any moment, just blow a rude gust of wind.

Sorry to ruin that mood, squeezing the heart. It seemed that the left were CASUCO to shut out
ghosts in the night, who were inside screaming to people from murdered, that the whole bush was hiding
under a shroud of it hundreds of corpses.

Horrific images was what inspired the contemplation of these abandoned fields, and highlighted even
more dismal misery when contrasted with the lands near, red, well maintained, correct full of rows of
vegetables and seedlings, to which was the autumn leaves transparency caramel. Even the birds
fled from the fields of death, perhaps for fear of the animaluchos
that rebullían under brush or by sniffing the breath of misfortune.

On the broken thatch, if anything could see was the fluttering of black wings and treacherous funeral
feathers of crows and kites, which were shaken mute the laden trees
of joyful and playful fluttering PIID, remaining silent the garden,
as if there were sparrows half-mile radius.

Pepeta going to move forward, toward his white farmhouse, which peeked
through the trees some fields beyond, but had to lie still on the
high side of the road, that he should a cart loaded advancing stumbling
and seemed to come from the city.

Her feminine curiosity was excited to notice him.

He was a poor farm cart drawn by a bony old nag, which helped in hard bumps a tall man who was
walking next to him encouraging him with shouts and pops whiplash.

Labrador dressed, but how to wear the scarf round his head, his pants
corduroy and other details of his suit, which was not betrayed in
the garden, where personal adornment has gradually been contaminated
by the taste of the city.

Was a farmer in some remote village: kidney may come from the province.

On the car amontonábanse, forming pyramid to higher than the poles, all kinds domestic objects.
Was the emigration of an entire family. Consumptive mattresses, straw mattresses scandalous stuffed
corn husk, esparto chairs, pans, kettles, plates, baskets, bed green benches, all piled on the
car, dirty, worn out, miserable, smelling famine, to escape desperate, as if the march unfortunately
after nipping family heels.

At the top of this mess three children could be seen hugging, which provided the fields with
wide eyes, as explorers visiting a country for the first time.

On foot and behind the cart as watching for anything out of it fell, a woman and a marching
girl, tall, slim, slim, it seemed daughter.

On the other side of the horse, helping when the vehicle is stopped in a bad way, was a boy of
eleven years.

Its exterior betrayed serious child, accustomed to struggle with poverty, is a man at the age
others play. A dirty little dog panting up the rear.

Pepeta, supported on the back of his cow, they looked forward, ever possessed the most curiosity.
"Where would these poor people?

The way that, tributary to Alboraya not going anywhere. Extinguished in the distance, and exhausted
by the myriad branching paths and trails that gave entrance to the barracks.

But his curiosity had an unexpected ending. Jesus! The car left the road, crossing the dilapidated
bridge of logs and earth which gave access to the cursed land, and is got by Barret fields, flattening
their tires brush respected.

The family remained behind, saying with gestures and words confusing the impression that caused
him misery, but straight at the wrecked cabin, and who takes possession
of what is yours.

Pepeta not want to see more. Now I really ran to his hut.

Anxious to arrive before left to the cow and calf, and the two beasts
continued their march calmly, as who does not care about things outside
the barn and has insurance.

Pimento was lying on one side of his hut, smoking lazily, staring at three sticks smeared with
lime, put in the sun, around which fluttered some birds. Occupation
was a master.

Upon seeing his wife come to the astonished eyes and poor chest heaving, Pimento changed positions
to hear better, recommending that does not approach the wands.

Let's see, what was that? Have you had stolen the cow? ...

Pepeta, with emotion and fatigue, could barely say two words together.

"The land of Barret .... An entire family .... Iban to work, to live in the barracks. She I
had seen. "

Pimento, bird hunter with league foe of labor and terror of the contoured,
could not impassive gravity retain great man at such unexpected news.

-
Recontracordóns!

...

Got a jump straight weighed and human muscles, and began to
run without waiting for further explanation.

His wife saw how he ran cross country to a bluff to the lands immediately cursed. There he knelt,
lay on his stomach to peer through the reeds like a Bedouin lurking, and after a few minutes
he returned to run, lost in this labyrinth of paths, each of which
led to a hut, to a field where men hunched by shone his hoe like a
flash of steel.

The garden was still smiling and murmuring, imbued with light and whispers, dormant under the
waterfall golden morning sun.

But voices sounded in the distance and appeals: the news was transmitted to belt out a field
to another field, and a shudder of alarm, surprise, indignation, ran through the whole plain,
as if they had spent centuries and circulate a notice that the beach had appeared an Algerian galley
looking white meat shipment.

II

When harvest time Barret watched the pictures of different crops that their lands were divided, could
not contain a sense of pride, and looking at the high wheat, cabbage-heart with his curly
blonde, green melon poking back to flower ground peppers and tomatoes, or half hidden by foliage,
praised the goodness of their fields and the efforts of all his predecessors to work better than
the rest of the garden.

All the blood of their grandparents was there. Five or six generations had passed Barrets their
lives tilling the same soil, turning upside down, medicine her womb with burning manure, taking care
that no decrease in their vital juice, brushing and combing with
the hoe and gate all those lumps, of which there was not one that
was not watered with the sweat and blood of the family.

Many wanted the farmer to his wife, and even forgave him the folly of having given four daughters and
no sons to help him in his task, not least he loved the four girls, one angels of God, who spent
the day singing and sewing at the door of the hut, and some Sometimes they got into the fields
to rest a little to his poor father, but the supreme passion Uncle
Barrett, the love of his love, were those lands on which had passed
monotonous and quiet of your family history.

Many years ago, many - in time the old Tomba, a nearly blind old man who kept the poor herd of a butcher
Alboraya, he traveled, heading del Fraile, shooting blunderbuss against
the French - these lands were among the religious of San Miguel Kings,
good gentlemen, fat, glossy, earthy, showing no big hurry in the collection
of rent, it being satisfied that afternoon, passing through the cabin,
I received the grandmother, who was then a real girl, presenting us
with deep gourds of chocolate and offerings of fruit.

Before, long before, had been the owner of all that a great lord, who deposited their sins
by dying and farms within community, and now, alas! belonging to Don Salvador, an old man in
Valencia, which was the torment Uncle Barret, for even in dreams
appeared to him.

The poor farmer hid his troubles to his own family. He was a brave man, customs pure. On Sundays,
if I was a little tavern at the Copa, where he met all the people
of contour, was to look to trick players, to laugh like a blessed
listening to the nonsense Pimento and other brutalities that were
acting cocky guys went from the garden, but never approached the counter
to pay for a glass.

He always carried a pocket of his tight band on the stomach, and if he drank, was when one of the
greedy invited to all present.

Enemy to communicate their troubles, he was always seen smiling, good-natured, calm, taking pulled
down over his ears blue cap that justified his nickname.

I worked at night to night, when the whole garden was asleep, as he was, to the uncertain clarity
dawn, scratching their land, increasingly convinced that he could with them.

It was too much for one man. If only I had a son ... Seeking help took servants who robbed him
working little and finally said goodbye to surprise sleeping in the barn in the sunshine.

Influenced by the respect to his ancestors, wanted burst of fatigue
on their lumps before to agree that some of them were transferred
on lease to foreign hands.

And not being able to with all the work, left unproductive and fallow
half its fertile land, claiming with the culture of the other supporting
the family and pay the master.

This effort was a silent struggle, desperate, stubborn, against the needs of life and against their own
weakness.

Had but one wish: that the girls ignore their concerns, that nobody
would account at the home of the hardships and sorrows of the father
not to disturb the holy joy that house, busy at all hours by the laughter
and songs of the four sisters, aged only one year differed.

And while they, who were beginning to attract attention of the young men of the garden, attended
with new silk scarves, colorful, and ironed and noisy skirts to the feasts of the little towns,
or waking at dawn to go barefoot and shirt to look through the cracks in the wicket who were
singing them albaes [2] or presented with strumming the guitar, the
poor guy Barret, increasingly engaged in leveling its budget, drew,
ounce after ounce whole bunch of gold amassed farthing farthing on
it his father had left him, shutting and Don Salvador, old miser who
never had enough, Not content with squeezing, talking about how bad
were the times, the scandalous increase contributions and the need
to raise the price of the lease.

[2] dawns.

Barrett could not have found worse master.

Enjoyed throughout the garden a nasty reputation because rare was the game where it had no land.
Every afternoon, wrapped in an old layer, which had until spring, looking squalid beggar,
and accompanied by curses and hostile gestures that left his back, was visiting the paths
to the settlers. Was the tenacity of the miser who wants to be in contact at all hours with
their properties, stickiness the usurer who always has to settle
outstanding accounts.

The dogs barked at him from afar, as death approaches, the children looked at him sulky, the men
were hiding to avoid painful excuses and the women came to the door of the cabin with their
eyes on the floor and lie on the point to pray to Don Salvador to
be patient, answering with tears and threats to his snorts.

Pimento, who as the bully was interested in the misfortunes of his neighbors and was the knight
errant of the garden, promised to mumble something like hitting a
beating and cool off in a ditch, but the very victims of greedy deterred
him talking the importance of Don Salvador, a man who spent his mornings
in the courts and had friends of many bells.

With people like the poor always lose.

In all of its settlers, the best was Barret: although at the expense of great efforts, all
he owed.

And the old man, who cited as a model to other tenants, when in front of him extreme cruelty,
was more demanding, excited by the gentleness of the farmer, glad to find a man who could satisfy
his instincts without fear of oppression and prey.

Increased, finally, the rental price of land. Barrett testified, and even cried recalling the merits
of his family who had lost his skin in those areas to of them the best in the garden. But Don
Salvador was adamant. Were they the best? ... Should therefore pay
more.

And Barret paid the increase. The blood would give him rather than abandon these land which gradually
absorbed his life.

Had no money to bail out and only had what they produced in the fields. And completely only, hiding
the family's situation, having to smile when he was between his wife and their daughters, who
recommended he not tried so hard, gave poor Barret to the most absurd folly of work.

Lost sleep. It seemed that their vegetables were growing less rapidly than those of neighbors
he just wanted to cultivate all the land, worked at night to grope, the lower cloud of hail
made him beside himself, trembling with fear, and him, so kind, so honest, even advantage
of the carelessness of the farmers adjacent to steal some of irrigation.

If

your family was blind, in the slums surrounding the situation well guessed Barrett pitying his
meekness.

It was a good fellow, did not know "stand up" to the nasty miser and he was going to devour it
slowly sucking in full.

And so it was.

The poor farmer, burdened by a life of fever and dementia laborious stayed bones, bent like
an octogenarian, his eyes sunken. One characteristic hat justifying his nickname and did not stop
his ears, taking advantage of the growing thin, down to the shoulders as a memorial apagaluz
of its existence.

The worst thing for him was that this unsustainable overtiredness only allowed to pay half the
insatiable ogre.

The consequences of their folly by the work did not wait. The Barret hack of an animal suffering
that followed in its desperate efforts tired of working day and night, to go pulling the cart to
load Valencia Market vegetables, and then no time to breathe or headbands,
be coupled to plow, took the game to die rather than allow the slightest
attempt at rebellion against poor master.

So yes that was considered lost irretrievably poor farmer! In desperation looked at their fields,
who could no longer grow, the rows of fresh vegetables, people city ​​consumed with indifference,
not knowing the anguish that their production does to suffer a poor father ongoing battle with
the land and misery.

But Providence, which never abandons the poor, spoke by the mouth
of Don Salvador.

For something say that God often brings good from evil.

The mean unbearable, the greedy moneylender, knowing his misfortune offered to help with a kindness
paternal and moving. What needed to buy another beast? "Fifty dollars? Then there was it to
help, showing how unfair it was those who hated him and talked ill of him.

And lends to Barrett, with the small detail of requiring a signature - business is business -
at the foot of a role in which he spoke of interest, the accumulation of revenues, debt liability,
the latter referring to the furniture, tools, everything he owned the peasant in his hut, including
barnyard animals.

Barret, encouraged by the possession of a new young and fiery steed, became more actively their
work, to kill on those terroirs, which seemed to grow as diminishing their strength, wrapping
a red cloth.

Most of what they harvested in their fields, the family ate it, and handfuls of copper he drew
from the sale of the remainder in the Valencia Marketplace desparramábanse,
without forming never needed to quell the pile Don Salvador.

These anxieties of old Barret to pay their debt but they would come eventually wake in him a certain
instinct of revolt, raising their rude vague and confused thinking
ideas of justice.

Why were not his fields? All his grandparents had left life among those lumps, they were watered
with the sweat gives the family if not for them, by Barrett, would be so unpopulated land and
the sea .... And now came tighten the ring, to make die with reminders,
that heartless old man was the master, though he could not pick up
a hoe or her life had bent their backs .... Christ!

And how to fix things men! ...

But these were momentary rebellion, returned to him the resigned submission
of the farmer, the traditional and superstitious respect for the property.

Had to work and be honest.

And the poor man, he considered the failure to pay as most of the dishonor, returned to his
tasks becoming weaker, more exhausted, feeling inside the slow collapse
of its energy, convinced that he could not prolong this fight, but
outraged at the possibility leaving only an inch of land of their
ancestors.

Christmas semester was unable to deliver to Don Salvador more than a small part. San arrived John,
and a penny.

The woman was sick, to pay expenses until he had sold the "Golden marriage" the venerable earrings
and necklace of pearls, which were the treasure of family, and whose future possession caused arguments
between the four girls.

The old miser was adamant. No, Barret, it could not continue.

As he was good (For most people I did not believe), could not consent to continue killing the
farmer in this endeavor to cultivate a larger land forces. Not consent, it was matter of good
heart.

And as I had made proposals for new lease warned Barrett to leave the camps soon. I was sorry,
but he was poor .... Ah! And so it should be reminded that the realization of the loan to purchase
the horse, with revenues amount amounted to ....

The poor farmer
and was set in the thousands of real debt to coming up with happy
returns: troubled and confused as he left the order to abandon their
land.

Weakness, interior wear produced by the overwhelming struggle
of several years, said suddenly.

He, who had never cried, whined
like a child. All his pride, his Moorish gravity, disappeared suddenly,
and knelt before the old man asking him not to abandon, for he saw
it to his father.

But good father had thrown the poor Barret. Don
Salvador was adamant. Sorry much, but I could not do otherwise. He
was poor, the bread should seek their children .... He continued his
cruelty muffled phrases feeling hypocritical.

The farmer got tired
of asking grace. Went several times to Valencia to the master's house
to talk of their ancestors, had moral rights over those lands, to
ask a little patience, nodding wild hope that he would pay, and finally
ended by the greedy not open his door.

Barret regenerated despair.
He returned to be the son of the garden, proud, energetic and intractable
when you believe in the right. Do not want to hear the master? "He
refused to give it a hope? ... Well, he waited at home, if the other
wanted something to go look. Let's see who was the handsome that made
him leave his cabin!

He continued working, albeit with misgivings,
always looking forward to passing a stranger the roads immediately,
as one looks from one moment to another being attacked by a gang bandit.

He
cited to the court and did not appear. He knew what it meant: entanglements
of men to lose good people. If they wanted to rob him, who seek him
there on the fields they were pieces of his skin, and as such would
defend them.

One day I was told that the afternoon would be the Court
to proceed against him, to expel the land, seizing also to pay all
her debts in the cabin. That night and not sleep in it.

So outrageous
was this for poor old Barrett, who smiled incredulously. That could
be for the cheats, for those who have not ever paid, but he had always
fulfilled who was born there, they only had one year lease ... Ish! The son of Skuli and Gudrun was Asolf of Reini who was wedded to Thora the
daughter of Skopti Ogmundson. The son of Asolf and Thora was Guthorm of Reini, the father of
Bard, the father of King Ingi and Duke Skuli.

¶ On a winter after the fall of King Harald was his body transported from England to Nidaros
and interred there in the Church of St. Mary, that selfsame church the which he himself had
caused to be builded.

It was allowed by all that King Harald had exceeded other men in wisdom & resourcefulness,
both when he had been fain to act swiftly or had debated long, either for himself or others.
The most valiant of all men was he, and victorious withal, even as hath been set forth this while:

  'The waster of Zealand's dwellers
  In boldness ne'er was lacking;
  Mind ruleth half of victory,
  And soothly Harald proveth it.'

¶ King Harald was stately and goodly to behold, fair hair and a fair beard had he, and a long
moustache; of his eyebrows the one was somewhat higher than the other, & he had large hands
and feet, but either shapely. Five ells was he in stature. Towards his foes was he cruel, and
when withstood revengeful. What manner of speaking, God
mine! It seems that this is a tavern ... If you had to at least the Morros de mare! Descrísmese
you teaching these idiots. Gross! ...

And waving the cane began to distribute sound blows: the one by the nip and the other for "Impropriety
of language," as non-stop snorting Joaquin in their rum. So blindly were the blows that other
guys were tightened in banks, shrugged, hiding each head into the neighbor's shoulder, and
a little boy, the youngest son of Batiste, frightened by the sound
of the cane, it was the body.

This tamed the teacher and made him regain his lost glory, while the auditorium beaten covered
her face.

- Doña Pepa - said his wife -, take you to the Lord of Borrull, who is unwell, and clean behind
the school.

And the big woman, who had some affection to Batiste's three children because they paid all Saturday,
grabbed a hand to the "Lord of Borrull" which came out swinging school
on the tender little legs, still crying in fright and teaching more
than the skirt through the rear opening of the pants.

After these incidents over the lesson again sung, and the trees seemed
to shudder of annoyance to sift among its branches this monotonous
drone.

Some evenings are a melancholy could hear bells, and the whole school
was stirring with excitement.

Herd was approaching Tomba. Everyone knew that getting old with their livestock had a couple
of hours of rest.

If chatterbox was the pastor, not going on behind the teacher. Both undertook an endless conversation,
and the disciples left the banks to hear them up close or were going to play with ruminating sheep
grass near the slopes.

A Joaquin great sympathy he felt for the old.

He had run the world, had the courtesy always speak in Castilian, was understood in medicinal
herbs, not take away from that customers, in short, that was the only person in the garden can
"switch" with him.

The appearance was always the same. First came the sheep at the school door, stuck head, curious and sniffing
were retiring with some contempt, convinced that there there was more grass than the intellectual
and worth little. Then he had the guy walking Tomba safely through the land known, but with
the staff ahead of only aid their dying eyes.

He sat on the bench near the door bricks, and the teacher and the pastor spoke, quietly admired
by Dona Josefa and the older ones from school, which slowly they
approached to form a circle.

Tomba's uncle to the paths was always talking to his sheep, he spoke at the beginning slowly,
like a man afraid to reveal his absence, but the teacher talk was inflamed, and did not take
long to throw in the vast sea of ​​endless stories. Lamented as badly that 'Spain will, "he repeated
the news of which came from the city, detested ill governments who are to blame for bad harvests,
and just say the usual.

- Those times, Don Juaquín, those were other times mine. You have not known; but also those of
you were better than them.

Let's getting worse ... What you see any the little people when they are men!

Already knew this was the prologue to his story.

- If you had seen us to the departure of the Flair! - Pastor monk could never say -. Those were
Spanish, but now there are only cute at home 'Cup I was eighteen years, a shako with a copper
eagle, he took from a dead man, and a rifle bigger than me. And flair! ... What a man! Now just
talk about which general. Lies, all lies! Where was the father Nevot there could be no other! Had
to see it rolled up the habit, on his horse, with curved saber and pistols. What we ran! Sometimes
here, sometimes in the Alicante province, then by near Albacete:
we always were on the heels; but we, we did French pillábamos dust.

I still think I see, "Musiú ... Pardon! "And I, bang, bang! bayonet clean.

The wrinkled old man stood, his eyes glowing like dying embers weak, moving the staff clicking as
if he were still the enemy. Then came the advice: behind the old kindly man rose up fierce, hard
bowels, formed in a merciless war. Visible Hacíanse his fierce instincts, rigid and unresponsive
in his youth to step time. Valencia spoke to the boys, giving them the fruit of their experience.
Should believe him, he had seen a lot. In life, patience to take revenge on the enemy; wait
for the ball, and when it comes right, play it hard. And to give these tips fierce twinkle in his
eyes, which at the bottom of the deep dying stars seemed close orbits to extinction. Betrayed
their malice senile old struggles in the garden, ambushes and tips, a complete disregard for
the lives of their peers.

The teacher, afraid that it would break the morale of its people, changed the course of conversation
talking about France, the great memories of old Tomba.

Was subject to many hours. He knew that country as if born there. By surrendering Valencia Marshal
Suchet, had been taken prisoner, with a few thousand more, to a large
city: Toulouse, France.

And mingled in the conversation, horribly disfigured, the words French
could still remember after all these years.

What a country!

There are men with about white hats and mats, color jackets with the collars up to the neck, boots
high as those of the cavalry, women with skirts and sleeves flute,
so narrow mark them all that remains inside.

And on and on talking about the costumes and customs the time of
the Empire, imagining everything and still existed today's France
was like to beginning of the century.

While detailing his memories, the teacher and his wife heard him attentively, and some boys,
abusing the unexpected holiday, away from the barracks were attracted
to the sheep, fleeing from them as the devil.

The pulling of the tail, cogíanlas legs, forcing them to walk with the front legs were rolled by the
wayside, or trying to ride them registering a jump on their dirty
wool.

And the poor animals in vain protesting with tender bleating, because he did not hear the pastor,
occupied in recounting with delight the agony of French finally killed him.

- And how many fell? - Ask the teacher at the end of the story.

- Question one hundred and twenty or one hundred thirty. Can not remember.

The marriage was smiling. Since the last conversation had increased twenty French. As the years
passed their exploits were getting larger and the number of victims.

The moans of the herd finally called the teacher's attention.

- Gentlemen - shouted to the brave disciples while cane required - all here. Can you imagine
that there is more to spend the day having fun? ... The center works.

And to prove it by example, moving the rod it was a pleasure introducing to blows the fold of
wisdom to all the flock of playful rascals.

- With your permission, Tomba: more than two hours we are talking about. I have to continue
the lesson.

And while the pastor, dismissed politely guided his sheep to the mill, to repeat there their stories,
started school again in the humming of the multiplication table,
it was for the disciples of Don Joaquin the great show of wisdom.

At sundown the boys let loose his last song, thanking the Lord "because
had assisted with their lights "and picked up the pouch each meal,
because as distances in the garden were not insignificant, the boys
went in the morning from their barracks with provisions for a day
at school.

This meant that some enemies of Don Joaquin teacher was fond of chastising his disciples diminished
rations for thus overcome the shortcomings of the kitchen of Dona
Pepa.

On Friday, after leaving school, they all invariably heard the same speech:

- Gentlemen, tomorrow is Saturday, you remember it to their wives
mothers and let them know that tomorrow will not bring the two rooms
will not enter the school.

To you I say especially 'Lord of ... such ', and to you,' Lord of ... which "- and thus let out a
dozen names -. Three weeks since he promised to bring you the stipend, and so the instruction
is not possible or science can procreate, nor fought with native barbarism relief from these
fields. I I put everything, my wisdom, my books - and watched the
three cards he was collecting his woman carefully to keep them in
the old comfortable - and you do not bring anything.

I said: that morning come with empty hands will not go in that door. Notice the ladies mothers.

Boys
were in pairs, holding hands - as in the schools of Valencia; What is believed some? - And left
the cabin, before kissing the right hand don squamous Joachim and repeating all of run to pass by
him:

- You have a good time! Until tomorrow, God willing!

Acompañábales the teacher to the square of the mill, which was a star
of roads and paths and there he undid the training in small groups,
moving away to different parts of the valley.

- Mind you, sirs, that
I will keep watch! - Joaquin shouted a last warning -.

Care to steal fruit, to skip stones or ditches. I have a bird that connects me everything; and if
I am wrong, cane walk off as a demon.

And standing in the square, was a long time to view the largest group,
which departed Alboraya way.

These disciples were the best paid. Iban including three children, Batiste, for which often turned
the road into a street of Bitterness.

Holding all three of the hand, tried to walk behind the other boys, who, being the barracks immediately
to his, felt the same hatred from their parents against Batiste and his family, and lost no opportunity
to disturb them.

The two older ones knew how to defend, and scratch more or less, to go out at certain times winners.
But the smallest, Pascualet, a chubby kid and potbellied, had only
five years, and whom I adored mother for her sweetness and gentleness,
promising to do chaplain cried just saw his brothers engaged in terrible
fights with fellow students.

Many times the two biggest came home sweaty and dusty, as if they
had rolled in the road, with ripped jeans and torn shirt.

Signals were battle, the boy I had all crying. And the mother had to cure some of the largest applying
a two-room piece tightly on the bump up from a stone traitor.

Teresa Alborotábase to learn of the attacks they were subjected to their children, and how tough
women and courageous born in the countryside, only reassured when he heard that his men had managed
to defend themselves leaving the enemy unfavorably.

For God, who cares for Pascualet first!

... And the older brother, angered by the stories small, promising to beat any enemy ticks when
found in paths.

Every evening, just out of sight Joaquin group, began hostilities.

The enemies, the sons or nephews of those who swore to destroy the
tavern Batiste, were shortened step, to lower the distance between
them and the three brothers.

Still rang in his ears the words of the master: the threat of bird
fucking everything and all I had seen.

Some laughed incredulously, but lip service. That "guy" knew so much! ...

But as threats amortiguábanse moved away from the teacher.

They began by prance around three brothers, he pursued laughing - Malicious pretext inspired
by the instinctive hypocrisy of childhood - to push them to pass,
with holy desire to throw in the ditch that bordered the road.

Later, when she was exhausted without success this maneuver, began
the slaps and Repelon to full speed.

- Lladres!

Lladres!

And throwing the insult, I pulled the ear and trotted away, to go
back a little further and repeat the same words.

       

This calumny invented by the enemies of his father, was what infuriated the boys. The two largest,
leaving Pascualet, who took refuge behind a tree whimpering, entablábase
grabbed stones and a battle in the middle of the road.

Pebbles whistled
through the branches, bringing down a rain of leaves and bouncing
off trunks and slopes, dogs barking out fierce barraqueros, attracted
by the noise of the fight, and women at the doors of their homes,
raised their arms to heaven, crying indignant:

- Condenats! Dimonis!
...

These scandals indignant Don Joaquin and made him move his inexorable
cane next day. What about your school, temple of good breeding! ...

The
fight did not end until a road went flying the whip, or left some
old barracks, club in hand. The assailants fled, was disbanded, and
repentant of his achievement at being alone, felt terrified, with
the easy exchange of views of children, in that bird who knew everything
and what kept them for et Joaquin next day.

Meanwhile, the three
brothers continued their journey descalabraduras scratching their
struggle.

One afternoon the poor woman screams Batiste appealed to
God and to the saints see the progress as they reached their young.

That
day the battle had been hard. Ah, the bandits! The two seniors were
bruised; was always the same: there was no need to ignore. But the
little one, the Bishop, as we affectionately his mother called him,
was wet from head to foot, and cried, trembling with fear and cold.

The
fierce vagabonds had thrown in a ditch of stagnant water, and then
gouged covered with silt siblings nauseating.

Teresa laid him in
his bed when he saw the poor fellow was trembling in his arms, holding
his neck and murmuring voice like a bleat:

- Mare! Mare! ...

The
mother resumed her lamentations.

"Lord! Give us patience! "All that
mob, young and old, had proposed ending with the family.

* * * *
*

VII

Sad and frowning, as if to a funeral, Batiste began the road
to Valencia on a Thursday morning.

{King Margad} Page 166, line 35. Margad (in Irish Eachmargach) Rognvaldson was the King of
Dublin in 1035-1038 and 1046-1052.

{St. Olafmas} Page 167, line 26. July 28, 1052.

{there} Page 168, line 11. I work that
would cost if you wanted something beyond that decent and exquisite vision had all the gravity
and all the attractions. Not for anything would have made the slightest movement able to break the spell.
I do not know how long it lasted one, true ecstasy, perhaps several hours, perhaps only a few
minutes, but had much time to reflect, as much as you can do a brain when it is struggling with
a heart of cold-blooded absolutely private.

When my friends sparked halláronme busy looking at the wake.

- What a wonderful time! - Magdalena said an outpouring revealed that happy.

- Able to forget everything - Oliverio said .-- Do not cause me pain ...

- Would you be man enough to have concerns? - Count asked smiling.

-
Who knows - Oliverio said.

The wind did not rise. The sea, absolutely dead, we retained until dusk. Would and by seven at the
time of the full moon appear, round, wrapped in warm fog the reddened, a lack of breeze, it was
necessary to build the oars.

All this will mean to you, back when I was younger, once crossed my head the idea of ​​writing
it or as it was called, tell the tale. At that time seemed there was only one language to secure
worthily that such memories were of inexpressible in my opinion. Today, when I found my story
in the books of others, some of which are immortal, what shall I say ...

Back when the stars shone, the rhythmic sound of the oars, managed,
I think, by the boatmen of Elvira.

Were those farewell greetings of the season, almost immediately became
the first mists, rains then we realized that winter was approaching.
The day the sun we had both showered, disappeared showed only from
time to time with the pallor of his own decline, a sad omen did I
pinned the heart.

That same day, as if starting the same warning
had been received by each us, Magdalena said:

- It's time to think
about serious things. The birds to which we should imitate have gone
for more than a month.

{Earl Morcar} Page 199, line 20. Unhistorical. Morkere, or Morcar, escaped later and joined
Harald the son of (Earl) Godwin.

{Olaf the Mighty is} Page 199, line 27. The day you enter the school I will depart for Paris. I have long ago been preparing.
Everything is already prepared to ensure the life I lead there. I expected. Here's the proof.

'So he showed me the letter.

- Success depends only a little effort and I have certainly gotten bigger. You I've seen it
work can tell. Listen, my dear Domingo, within three days you will be a secondary school student,
which is slightly less than men and much more than one child. Age is not important. You have
sixteen years, but if you want, within six months may have eighteen. Trembles you leave and forget.
I do not remember until later, when you try to fix the accounts of his fortune. The field is
not for You, your privacy would kill him. You always look or too high or too low: in it is
impossible too high and too low in the dry leaves. Life is not so; Always look forward and live
up to their eyes and see what it is. You are very intelligent has a good heritage and a name that
pays him, with such a plot in his school outfit get to everything. One last tip: Wait not be
very happy during the years of study. Count submission you agree to anything in the future and
that the discipline imposed is not when you have the good sense to impose itself. Do not expect
too much with you friends from school, unless you have the freedom to choose, and in regard
to jealousy that you will be subject, if successful, as I hope, wait for him and serve him by way
of learning. Finally, do not miss a single day without repeating that only work is done in order pursued,
and will take any sleep at night without thinking of Paris awaits and where we meet again.

I
shook hands with a gesture entirely male authority, and won a jump stairs to his room.

I went down to the garden, in which the old Andrew dug flowerbeds.

- What is it, Mr. Domingo? - I asked noticing my embarrassment.

- There is that after three days sailing to lock myself in college,
my good Andrew.
