Little that night had she recked of the plan needing so much deliberation!  When she awoke
it was to the consciousness that besides the arrival of Leonard's letter, something had happened--there
was some perplexity--what was it?  And when it came back she was bewildered. Her own fortune
had always appeared to her something to fall back on in case of want of success, and to expend
it thus was binding the whole family down at a perilous moment, to judge by the rumours of
battle and resistance.  And all she had ever heard at home, much that she daily heard at New
York, inclined her to distrust and dislike of American speculations.  It was Cora's father!
Her heart smote her for including him in English prejudice, when Henry liked and trusted him!
And she had disobeyed and struggled against Henry too long.  She had promised to be submissive
and yielding.  But was this the time?  And the boarding-house life--proverbially the worst
for children--was fast Americanizing Ella, while Minna drooped like a snowdrop in a hot-house,
and idleness might be mischievous to Henry.

Oh, for some one to consult! for some one to tell her whether the risk was a foolish venture,
or if the terms were safe!  But not a creature did she know well enough to seek advice from!
Even the clergyman, whose church she attended, was personally unknown to her; Cora Muller was
her sole intimate; there was a mutual repulsion between her and the other ladies, and still
more with the gentlemen. A boarding-house was not the scene in which to find such as would
inspire confidence, and they had no introductions.  There was no one to turn to; and in the
dreary indifference that had grown over her, she did not even feel capable of exerting her
own judgment to the utmost, even if she had been able to gather certain facts, or to know prudent
caution from blind prejudice--often woman's grievous difficulty.  What could a helpless girl
of one-and-twenty, in a land of strangers, do, but try to think that by laying aside the use
of her own judgment she was trusting all to Providence, and that by leaving all to her brother
she was proving her repentance for her former conduct.

There, too, were her sisters, clamorous with hopes of the forest life; and there was Cora,
urging the scheme with all the fervour of girlish friendship, and in herself no small element
in its favour, engaging for everything, adducing precedents for every kind of comfort and success,
and making Ave's consent a test of her love. One question Averil asked of her--whether they
should be utterly out of reach of their Church? Cora herself had been bred up to liberal religious
ways, and was ready to attend whatever denomination of public worship came first to hand, though
that which had descended from the Pilgrim Fathers came most naturally.  She had been at various
Sunday schools, and was a good conscientious girl, but had never gone through the process of
conversion, so that Rosa Willis had horrified Ella by pronouncing her 'not a Christian.'  She
had no objection to show her English friends the way to the favourite Episcopal Church, especially
as it was esteemed fashionable; and her passion for Averil had retained her there, with growing
interest, drawn on by Averil's greater precision of religious knowledge, and the beauty of
the Church system, displayed to her as the one joy and relief left to one evidently crushed
with suffering.  The use of Averil's books, conversations with her, and the teaching she heard,
disposed her more and more to profess herself a member of the Episcopal Church, and she was
unable to enter into Averil's scruples at leading her to so decided a step without her father's
sanction. 'Father would be satisfied whatever profession she made.  Did people in England try
to force their children's consciences?'  Cora, at Averil's desire, ascertained that Massissauga
had as yet no place of worship of its own; but there was a choice of chapels within a circuit
of five miles, and an Episcopal Church seven miles off, at the chief town of the county.  Moreover,
her father declared that the city of Massissauga would soon be considerable enough to invite
every variety of minister to please every denomination of inhabitant. Averil felt that the
seven miles off church was all she could reasonably hope for, and her mind was clear on that
score, when Henry came to take her out walking for the sake of being able to talk more freely.

No longer afraid of being overheard, he gave kind attention to Leonard's letter; and though
he turned away from the subject sooner than she wished, she was not exacting.  Again he laid
before her the advantages of their migration, and assured her that if there were the slightest
risk he would be the last to make the proposal.  She asked if it were safe to invest money
in a country apparently on the eve of civil war?

He laughed the idea to scorn.  How could the rebel states make war, with a population of negroes
sure to rise against their masters? Where should their forces come from?  Faction would soon
be put down, and the union be stronger than ever.  It was what Averil had been hearing morning,
noon, and night, so no wonder she believed it, and was ashamed of a futile girlish fear.

And was Henry sure it was a healthy place?  Had she not heard of feverish swamps in Indiana?

Oh yes, in new unsettled places; but there had hardly been an ailment in the Muller family
since they had settled at Massissauga.

And Averil's last murmur was--Could he find out anything about other people's opinion of the
speculation? did they know enough about Mr. Muller to trust themselves entirely in his hands?

Henry was almost angry--Could not his sister trust him to take all reasonable precaution? 
It was the old story of prejudice against whatever he took up.

Poor Averil was disarmed directly.  The combats of will and their consequences rose up before
her, and with them Leonard's charges to devote herself to Henry.  She could but avow herself
willing to do whatever he pleased.  She only hoped he would be careful.

All thenceforth was pleasant anticipation and hope.  Averil's property had to be transferred
to America, and invested in shares of the land at Massissauga; but this was to cause no delay
in arranging for the removal, they were only to wait until the winter had broken up, and the
roads become passable after the melting of the snows; and meantime Mr. Muller was to have their
house prepared.  Cora would remain and accompany them, and in the intervening time promised
to assist Averil with her judgment in making the necessary purchases for 'stepping westward.'

When Averil wrote their plans to her English friends, she felt the difficulty of pleading for
them.  She was sensible that at Stoneborough the risking of her property would be regarded
as folly on her part, and something worse on that of her brother; and she therefore wrote with
every effort to make the whole appear her own voluntary act--though the very effort made her
doubly conscious that the sole cause for her passive acquiescence was, that her past self-will
in trifles had left her no power to contend for her own opinion in greater matters--the common
retribution on an opinionative woman of principle.

Moreover, it was always with an effort that she wrote to Mary May.  A rejected offer from a
brother is a rock in a correspondence with a sister, and Averil had begun to feel greatly ashamed
of the manner of her own response.  Acceptance would have been impossible; but irritating as
had been Tom May's behaviour, insulting as had been his explanation, and provoking, his pertinacity,
she had begun to feel that the impulse had been too generous and disinterested to deserve such
treatment, and that bitterness and ill-temper had made her lose all softness and dignity, so
that he must think that his pitying affection had been bestowed on an ungrateful vixen, and
be as much disgusted with the interview as she was herself.  She did not wish him to love her;
but she regretted the form of the antidote, above all, since he was of the few who appreciated
Leonard; and the more she heard of Ella's narrations of his kindness, the more ashamed she
grew.  Every letter to or from Mary renewed the uncomfortable sense, and she would have dropped
the correspondence had it not been her sole medium of communication with her imprisoned brother,
since Henry would not permit letters to be posted with the Milbank address.

CHAPTER XX

  A little hint to solace woe,
  A hint, a whisper breathing low,
  'I may not speak of what I know.'--TENNYSON

At the pace at which rapid people walk alone, when they wish to devour both the way and their
own sensations, Ethel May was mounting the hill out of the town in the premature heat assumed
by May in compliment to Whitsun week, when a prolonged shout made her turn.  At first she thought
it was her father, but her glass showed her that it was the brother so like him in figure that
the London-made coat, and the hair partaking of the sand instead of the salt, were often said
to be the chief distinction.  Moreover, the dainty steps over the puddles were little like
the strides of the Doctor, and left no doubt that it was the one wedding guest who had been
despaired of.

'O, Tom, I am glad you are come!'

'What a rate you were running away at!  I thought you had done with your hurricane pace.'

'Hurricane because of desperate hurry.  I'm afraid I can't turn back with you.'

'Where is all the world?'

'Blanche is helping Mary arrange the Hoxton--I mean her own drawing-room.  Hector has brought
a dog-cart to drive papa about in; Daisy is gone with Harry and Aubrey to the Grange for some
camellias.'

'And Ethel rushing to Cocksmoor!'

'I can't help it, Tom,' she said, humbly; 'I wish I could.'

'What's this immense pannier you are carrying?'

'It is quite light.  It is twelve of the hats for the children tomorrow.  Mary was bent on
trimming them all as usual, and I was deluded enough to believe she would, till last evening
I found just one and a half done!  I did as many as I could at night, till papa heard me rustling
about and thumped.  Those went early this morning; and these are the rest, which I have just
finished.'

'Was there no one to send?'

'My dear Tom, is your experience of weddings so slight as to suppose there is an available
being in the family the day before?'

'I'm sure I don't desire such experience.  Why could not they be content without ferreting
me down?'

'I am very glad you have come.  It would have been a great mortification if you had stayed
away.  I never quite believed you would.'

'I had much rather see the operation I shall miss to-morrow morning. I shall go back by the
two o'clock train.'

'To study their happiness all the way up to town?'

'Then by the mail--'

'I won't torment you to stay; but I think papa will want a talk with you.'

'The very thing I don't want.  Why can't he dispose of his property like other people, and
give Richard his rights?'

'You know Richard would only be encumbered.'

'No such thing; Richard is a reasonable being--he will marry some of these days--get the living
after Wilmot, and--'

'But you know how papa would be grieved to separate the practice from the house.'

'Because he and his fathers were content to bury themselves in a hole, he expects me to do
the same.  Why, what should I do?  The place is over-doctored already.  Every third person
is a pet patient sending for him for a gnat-bite, gratis, taking the bread out of Wright's
mouth. No wonder Henry Ward kicked!  If I came here, I must practise on the lap-dogs!  Here's
my father, stronger than any of us, with fifteen good years' work in him at the least!  He
would be wretched at giving up to me a tenth part of his lambs, and that tenth would keep us
always in hot water.  His old-world practice would not go down with me, and he would think
everything murder that was fresher than the year 1830.'

'I thought he was remarkable for having gone on with the world,' said Ethel, repressing some
indignation.

'So he has in a way, but always against the grain.  He has a tough lot of prejudices; and you
may depend upon it, they would be more obstinate against me than any one else, and I should
be looked on as an undutiful dog for questioning them, besides getting the whole credit of
every case that went wrong.'

'I think you are unjust,' said Ethel, flushing with displeasure.

'I wish I were not, Ethel; but when there is one son in a family who can do nothing that is
not taken amiss, it is hard that he should be the one picked out to be pinned down, and, maybe,
goaded into doing something to be really sorry for.'

There was truth enough in this to seal Ethel's lips from replying that it was Tom's own fault,
since his whole nature and constitution were far more the cause than his conduct, and she answered,
'You might get some appointment for the present, till he really wants you.'

'To be ordered home just as I am making something of it, and see as many cases in ten years
as I could in a month in town.  Things are altered since his time, if he could only see it.
What was the use of giving me a first-rate education, if he meant to stick me down here?'

'At least I hope you will think long before you inflict the cruel disappointment of knowing
that not one of his five sons will succeed to the old practice.'

'The throne, you mean, Ethel.  Pish!'

The 'Pish' was as injurious to her hereditary love for 'the old practice,' and for the old
town, as to her reverence for her father. One angry 'Tom!' burst from her lips, and only the
experience that scolding made him worse, restrained her from desiring him to turn back if this
was the best he had to say.  Indeed she wondered to find him still by her side, holding the
gate of the plantation open for her.  He peered under her hat as she went through--

'How hot you look!' he said, laying hold of the handles of the basket.

'Thank you; but it is more cumbrous than heavy,' she said, not letting go; 'it is not that--'

An elision which answered better than words, to show that his speech, rather than hill or load,
had made her cheeks flame; but he only drew the great basket more decisively from her hand,
put his stick into the handle, and threw it over his shoulder; and no doubt it was a much greater
act of good-nature from him than it would have been from Richard or Harry.

'This path always reminds me of this very matter,' he said; 'I talked it over with Meta here,
on the way to lay the foundation-stone at Cocksmoor, till Norman overtook us and monopolized
her for good, poor little thing.  She was all in the high romantic strain, making a sort of
knight hospitaller of my father.  I wonder what she is like by this time, and how much of that
she has left.'

'Of the high romantic strain?  I should think it was as much as ever the salt of life to her.
Her last letter described her contrivances to make a knapsack for Norman on his visitation
tour.  Oh, fancy old June a venerable archdeacon!'

'You don't think a colonial archdeacon is like one of your great portly swells in a shovel hat.'

'It must be something remarkable that made Norman portly.  But as for the shovel hat, Mrs.
Meta has insisted on having it sent out.  I was going to tell you that she says, "I do like
such a good tough bit of stitchery, to fit my knight out for the cause."'

'Marriage and distance have not frozen up her effusions.'

