Something in the attitude and form of the girl in the distance reminded him of a person he
had seen. He was sorry for the poor thing, and walked quickly towards the place where they
were standing engrossed with their important business. To his surprise and horror he found
she was really the person he thought she slightly resembled, and he lost no time in coming
forward to stop the conversation.

Mrs. Phillips was astonished and distressed to see Elsie return with Brandon without Mrs. Peck.
Where they had met, and how they had got rid of her, she could not imagine. Elsie went to take
off her bonnet and return to her work, and Mrs. Phillips was left alone with Brandon. At his
first word, his first question, how could she let Alice Melville go out of her house with a
woman so well known in Melbourne as Mrs. Peck, Mrs. Phillips burst into tears.

"I could not help it; indeed, I could not help it. Stanley will be so angry if you tell him,
and I am sure I did all I could to keep her away, but she would come, and she would take a
fancy to Alice, and sit with her, and then when I sent Alice out for the buttons, she would
go with her."

"But why have you her here at all, Mrs. Phillips?" said Brandon, gravely. "You must know that
she is no fit person to be in your house, particularly in Mr. Phillips's absence. Confide in
your good husband. If there is any part of your past life that you are afraid of her telling,
believe me you will not better yourself by keeping in her power--tell your husband everything,
and shake yourself free of this dangerous woman."

"Stanley knows everything--everything about me--but he said I never was to speak to her again;
and I am sure I never wished to; but how can I help it when she will come--and she is my own
mother? But don't tell anybody, for Stanley would be so vexed. I don't keep anything from him;
don't blame me with that, Mr. Brandon."

"Your mother?" said Brandon. "Oh, that alters the case."

"I know that she is not good, and not respectable, and all that; but she went on so that I
was terrified to refuse her leave to come here to do some sewing. If Stanley had not thought
she was in Adelaide, he would never have left me here. Everything goes wrong when he leaves
me. There, when he went to America, we had the scarlet fever, and I lost my dear little Eva,
and now there is all this trouble. Oh! I wish I had gone up to Wiriwilta--I would have done
just as well there. But don't tell Mr. Phillips about this; I would rather tell him myself.
He has been good to me--so very good to me;--you cannot think how good he has always been to
me;--I do not keep things from him--indeed I don't, Mr. Brandon."

Brandon felt more liking to poor Mrs. Phillips in her distress and in her tears than he had
ever felt before. With such a mother, and such training as she had had in her early years,
much could not be expected from her, and now her expressions of gratitude to her good husband
touched him greatly. He had always thought her too insensible of her extraordinary good fortune--and
in a general way, so she was; but during these last few days, seeing her mother, and shrinking
from her, had made Mrs. Phillips have some idea of what her life might have been if Stanley
had not been so fond of her, and so generous as to marry her, and take her away from what was
likely to be her fate in such hands as those of her mother and Peck, and keep her so quiet
and comfortable, and give her every luxury he could afford, and bear with her temper, her ignorance,
and her stupidity; for in a vague way she knew that she had these faults. Was there ever a
wish of hers that he could grant that he had refused? Even this unlucky stay in Melbourne had
been at her own earnest request, and it had turned out so miserably, just because he was away.
Never had she loved her husband so much as at this time when she had been displeasing him so
grievously; how she had longed for courage to drive away the invader!--and now, though humbled
before Mr. Brandon, she was grateful to him when she thought that he could stay with her till
her husband came, and that, so protected, her mother could not again visit her.

"No doubt Phillips will forgive you readily when you tell him the truth; and I forgive you
too, under the very distressing circumstances in which Mrs. Peck placed you, though I did feel
very indignant at your allowing the girl whom I love, and whom I mean to marry, to go to Melbourne
with such a person," said Brandon.

"You mean to marry Alice?" said Mrs. Phillips.

"Yes, and she has consented to have me."

"Well, she is a good girl," said Mrs. Phillips, "and I am sure I wish you happy with her. I
know you will get on better with her than with Harriett, for she is always so much taken up
with herself, and never thinks about other people. The way she treated me when I was left here
with her was shameful; but I'll not tell Stanley about it if I can help it, for I have got
enough to vex him about without grumbling at his sister that he thinks so much of. But I like
both of the Melvilles, and they were both very good to my poor little baby as died in scarlet
fever, you know. We'll never get a husband for Miss Melville, for the gentlemen are all frightened
of her; but it is just as well, for she is a capital governess, Stanley says, and the children
like her--but they like Alice best."

"And Miss Phillips and Dr. Grant appear to be making it up as fast as possible," said Brandon,
"if I may judge from what I saw and heard at Wiriwilta."

"I am sure, Mr. Brandon, you never saw such goings on all the time he was in town. They were
together continually, and when he left Melbourne, she said she would like to go up the country
too. I really don't think Stanley would have liked it."

"Perhaps they are engaged," suggested Brandon.

"Perhaps they were; but I think Harriett would have told me that, for she'd have been so proud
of it, and I really think it was my dues to hear the first thing besides."

"I have told you the first thing," said Brandon. "I have not been more than half an hour accepted."

"Well, I am glad you have told me. I will miss Alice dreadfully, though. I suppose it will
be soon?" said Mrs. Phillips.

"As soon as I can persuade her to take me for better for worse," said Brandon.

"Oh, she won't need much persuading, such a good marriage for her as it is," said Mrs. Phillips,
who fancied she knew something of human nature. "Emily will want to be bridesmaid, she is so
fond of both Alice and you."

"Of course she will wish it, and of course she will have her own way, as usual; but with regard
to Mrs. Peck, will you or shall I tell Alice the relation between you and her? I should like
you to be justified to her."

"Oh, I'll tell her: I must wish her joy, and then I will tell her. And, Mr. Brandon, will you
be good enough to stay in the house as much as you can till Stanley comes down from Wiriwilta,
and then you will be able to send Mrs. Peck away, for I am too frightened of her to do it myself.
I'll go and speak to Alice now."

"Do; and send her in to speak to me, for I have got some business of hers that I must attend
to, and I must have some directions from her."

"Business!" said Mrs. Phillips, incredulously; "I dare say you have got plenty to say to her,
but I don't think as it's business."

At the sight of Alice, Mrs. Phillips's tears burst forth afresh, and for the second time in
her life (the first was on the occasion of Eva's death, when she had felt Alice so very kind),
she threw her arms round one of her own sex for sympathy and consolation.

"My dear Alice, forgive me--I could not help it, I was so frightened. You must not tell anybody,
not even your sister, about it; but that woman is my own mother, and I could not get her to
go away. I did not like your being so much with her, but I could not help it, for she would
do it. Do forgive me."

"Certainly, I forgive you from my heart," said Elsie.

"And Mr. Brandon has told me all about you and him, and I really wish you joy. You are going
to have a good husband--not so good a one as mine, but still a very good one."

"Thank you, Mrs. Phillips. I hope to be able to make him happy--at least I will try my very
best to do so." said Elsie.

"And you must make allowances for me, for you can see how I was brought up. I know I have been
very often cross with you, but you must forgive all these old things; and I suppose it had
better be before we leave Melbourne. We must write for Emily to come down, for she will want
to be bridesmaid, and Mr. Brandon says she shall, and we must set to get your things all in
a hurry."

"There's time enough to talk of all these matters," said Elsie. "I have scarcely begun to believe
that I am engaged yet."

"Oh, but Mr. Brandon wants to speak to you on business, and what other business can there be?
So go into the drawing-room, and he will perhaps show you that there is some need to think
of these things."

But Mr. Brandon did not bewilder Elsie with asking her to fix any time, though he was determined
to be married before going out of town, if possible; but he had to get from her extracts from
her uncle's will, which she recollected nearly word for word, and instructions as to how to
proceed with Mrs. Peck; also, as much as she knew of Mr. Hogarth's letters to Madame de Vericourt,
to show the relations between him and Elizabeth Ormistown, so far as she knew of them. There
was also a good deal of other talk to go through on subjects personal to themselves, which
they both thought exceedingly interesting, and Brandon would not believe till he looked at
his watch that he had kept Mrs. Phillips out of her own drawing-room for two hours.

Chapter IX.

Mrs. Peck's Communication

Mrs. Peck was surprised and a little disconcerted when, on the evening of the day on which
she had so nearly confided her secret to Elsie, Mr. Brandon walked into her lodgings unannounced;
but she concealed her chagrin with her usual duplicity. Though she was desirous of further
communication with Elsie, she preferred it to be with herself, and not through a person who
had spoken so uncivilly to her.

"You did not think it worth while for me to give Miss Melville and you my address, but I see
that you are making use of it without delay," said she.

"Yes, I am, for I want to know if I cannot transact the business which I interrupted," said
Brandon.

"You! No; certainly not. I only deal with principals."

"Miss Alice Melville empowers me to act for her in this matter, and this letter from her to
me should satisfy you of that. It will not do for a girl to treat personally with a woman who
compromises her by her company."

"Oh, is that it?" said Mrs. Peck, who disliked the exchange of a simple young girl for a man
of the world in the bargain she wished to make. "Well, if I must deal with you, what do you offer?"

"If you can give the inheritance of Cross Hall to Jane and Alice Melville, a thousand pounds,"
said Brandon.

"Say two thousand," said Mrs. Peck; "I will not take less than that. Are you a sweetheart of
that girl's--or of her sister's? If you are, you can easily see that Cross Hall is worth far
more than that."

"I do not think you can give information that will be worth the money I offer," said Brandon.
"Even supposing you were married before your irregular marriage with Mr. Hogarth, you will
have difficulty in proving that marriage; and after so many years spent in New South Wales
and Victoria under another name, it will be almost impossible to prove your identity."

"I can prove that," said Mrs. Peck, taking out of her black bag several letters of old date,
generally with remittances, signed "H. Hogarth." There had been an annuity paid regularly after
she had gone to Australia; but the last payment had been of a large sum 1,500 pounds which
she had accepted in lieu of all future annual remittances, and that had been sent more than
thirteen years before.

"I was a fool and a idiot to take the money, for it went as fast as my money always did; but
Peck wanted to start in the public line, and persuaded me to ask for that sum, and then in
a year and a half it was all gone, and I had no annuity to fall back on," said Mrs. Peck.

"Were you married to Peck or to Mrs. Phillips's father?" asked Brandon.

"No, not exactly married. I kept out of bigamy. I always kept that hold on Cross Hall; I would
not marry any one right out, you know."

"He might have had a divorce from you," said Brandon.

"If he had known, perhaps he might; but nobody made it none of their business to tell him,
and I said nothing about it."

"It is rather difficult to tell when you are speaking the truth, and when you are not," said
Brandon; "but I believe that you really are Elizabeth Ormistown, and I believe also that Francis
Hogarth is not the son of old Cross Hall, as you call him; but I fear you cannot prove it,
and without that the information is of no use to us, and worth no money."

"If I can prove it, how much is it worth?"

"How much have you had already on the strength of it? You are first handsomely paid for the
lie, and now you want to be bribed into telling the truth. I myself think 1,000 pounds far
too much, for if the case were taken to court, there would be very heavy law expenses before
possession could be obtained. I offer, on Miss Melville's behalf, a thousand whenever they
get the property."

"Far too little. I'll not speak a word for the chance of a sum like that; I must have 2,000
pounds. What is 1,000 pounds?"

"Why, at your years, it would buy you a very handsome annuity, or you could lend it out at
interest, and get ten per cent. for it, and have the principal to leave to any one you liked;
or you might start in business with such a capital. Many handsome fortunes have been made in
Melbourne on a smaller beginning; but if you think it insufficient, I can go away. My clients
are not so very anxious about the property as to accede to such a demand as yours, and Francis
Hogarth may be left in peaceable possession of the estate," said Brandon, coolly.

"He must not be left with it. I must not let him sit there in the place he ain't got no rights
to, after the way he has served me," said Mrs. Peck.

"I believe it is more a piece of spite than anything else," said Brandon. "Well, here is the
agreement for the payment of a thousand pounds. Will you accept of that, or shall I go?"

"You are too sharp for with me, a great deal too sharp on a poor old woman like me, but I'll
take your offer in the meantime. Miss Melville said I was to trust to her honour to pay me
as much as it is worth, and if she finds out as it's worth more, I expect she'll keep that
saying of hers in mind, and act accordingly."

Mrs. Peck signed the paper, and Brandon signed it also, as agent for Jane and Alice Melville.

"Now for your part of the bargain, Mrs. Peck, and stick to the truth if you can. I know that
your imagination is apt to run away with you; but here it will be a disadvantage to have any
flights of fancy," said Brandon.

Mrs. Peck had for more than a week thought of nothing but this disclosure of her past life,
and now that the opportunity had arrived, she really enjoyed telling it as much as if it had
been wholly fictitious. It was quite as romantic as any of her fabrications, and it was a subject
on which her lips had been sealed for thirty-four years, except to give vent to some occasional
allusions, to Peck. It was interesting in itself, it was damaging to Francis, and it was likely
to be lucrative to herself, for she hoped for a further reward from the grateful nieces, in
addition to the thousand pounds which their agent offered on their behalf. She had thought
a good deal over the story she had to tell, and gave a more consecutive and consistent narrative
than was usual with her, for she felt the importance of making it appear to be a perfectly
true story.

"Well," said she, "it's an old story and a queer one, but I do keep it in mind, and I will
tell you the truth; for as you say, it is what will answer us both best. My name, as you know,
was Elizabeth Ormistown, and I was born in the next county to ----shire, where Cross Hall is.
I have never seen Cross Hall myself, but I have heard of it. We had seen better days, for my
father was a small shopkeeper, and my mother was a schoolmaster's daughter; but my father was
the simple man, who is the beggar's brother, and he was caution or security (as they call it
here) for a brother of his own, for two hundred pounds, and lost it, and then we went all down
hill together. Mother was always very furious at him for his being such a fool, and even on
his death-bed she never forgave him for bringing her down so low. She was very greedy of money,
was mother, and never forgot any ill she had had done her. We was living in the country very
poor, for I could not bear to go to service among folk that knew about us, when I fell in with
a young man as I liked better than most; but as he was as poor as a rat, and only a working
joiner, mother would have nothing to say to him, and she made up her mind to take me to Edinburgh,
where she lived with a cousin, and I was to go to service. I had wanted to go before, but it
was all mother's pride as kept me at home; I wanted to be well dressed, as all girls do, and
I liked to be seen and to be talked to. I had grown up handsome enough. You have seen Mrs.
Phillips--she is the very moral of what I was, and I didn't like to be always wearing old things.
And mother, she wanted Jamie Stevenson driven out of my head, so she made no objections to
my going to a house where they took lodgers, mostly young men, in for the college. The work
was hard, and the wages no great matter; but the chance was worth twice as much as the wages,
for the lads was free--handed, particular if you would stand any daffing, as we called it then.
Harry Hogarth was there the second winter I was in Edinburgh, and, though he was not like to
have Cross Hall then, for he had two brothers older than him, he was just as free of his money
as if he was a young laird. He had been in Paris before that, but his father had grumbled at
his spending so much there, and said he must hold with Edinburgh for the future; and Harry
was maybe trying to show the old man that as much might go in Auld Reekie as in France. He
was said to be the cleverest of the family, and the old man was fond of him, and proud of him
too, but he was very hard to part with the gear. Harry was my favourite of all the lads in
the house, for he had most fun about him, and was the softest-hearted too. The old laird changed
his mind in the middle of the winter. I mind well his coming to our place one day, and he gave
me a very sour look when I opened the door, as if my cap and my clothes was too good for my
station, and my looks, too, maybe; but he said that Harry had better go to Paris, as his heart
was set on it; and he gave Harry a sum of money that made him think his father was not long
for this world, though he looked all right. So he behoved to have a splore, as they called
it: he entertained all his friends at a hotel to a supper, where they had a night of it, drinking,
and singing, and laughing, to bid him farewell. When he came back it was grey daylight, and
I was up to my work; and when he went past me, he saw me crying, as he thought, for grief at
the thought of his going away. And really I was sorry, for I liked him the best of the lot,
but my greeting was more with the thought of his giving me something handsome at parting than
that he should take it up so serious. But he, in his conceit, thought I was breaking my heart
for the love of him, and he tried to dry my tears. So, instead of going away that day, he stopped
another week; and then when he went to Paris, I said I would go with him; and he would refuse
me nothing. So we went in separate ships, and met together in Paris; and I stopped with him
at his lodgings, as is common enough in that queer town; and well I liked the place, and the
sights, and the presents he gave me, and the clothes I had to put on; and he was good enough
to me, though he laughed at me whiles; and many a day he called me greedy, but I aye got what
I wanted out of him.

"Well, we had been three months in Paris, when he got word that his eldest brother had broke
his neck when he was hunting, and that his father had taken the news so sore to heart that
he was ill and not like to recover, so Harry had to go home with all speed. I would not stop
in France without him, so we both came back again, and Harry went to Cross Hall and me to my
mother's. I was not over willing to go to her, for I knew how angry she would be at me; but
Harry said it was the best place for me for the meantime, and he promised to send me money,
so that I would be no burden.

"As I dreaded, my mother was terrible angry at me; but when I told her how soft Harry was,
she thought he might be brought to marry me, and she set her heart on managing that by hook
or by cook. Her contrivance was, that I should pretend to be very ill, and send for him to
bid me good-bye, and then she would manage the rest. So by her advice I took to my bed and
coughed very bad, and she made my cheeks look deadly white, and my lips too; and when Harry
came he was shocked to see me. His father was dead by this time, as well as his eldest brother,
so his heart was especial soft, and he looked sore distressed at my being in such a bad way.

"'Oh! Bessie,' says he, 'what can I do for you? What can I get for you?'

"''Deed it's no much that she wants now in this world; I'm thinking we'll lose her soon,' said
mother.

"'No, no,' says Harry eagerly. 'Let me feel your pulse, Bessie,' says he. Mother forgot about
his being a doctor, and did not like his going about in such a skilful way; but I was so roused
and excited myself that my pulse was at the gallop. 'Quick, but strong,' says he; 'not the
least like death. Cheer up, Bessie,' said he, 'it's just a bad turn you've got--a chill, perhaps,
but you'll very soon get over it. You ought to know that you're safe against fever at the present
time.'

"'It's on her mind,' said mother. 'It's her mind as is so disturbed. She eats nothing, and
she sleeps none for coughing, and takes such spasms at the heart. I know she'll never get better,
and she thinks just the same; and for my part I'd rather have laid her head in the grave than
let her live to be such a disgrace to us all. To think of such a thing happening to a daughter
of mine, and all through you.'

"'Well, Mrs. Ormistown, it is a pity, but it was quite as much her doing as mine, and maybe
a little more,' says he, looking at me with a half-laugh; but I only sighed and groaned, and
would not speak to him.

"'I'm sure, Bessie, when we were in Paris,' says he, 'you did not take it much to heart; and
I'll do what I can to make you comfortable.'

"'Don't mock us with talking about comfort,' said mother, sternly. 'If Bessie did not feel
her sin and her shame when she was in that sink of iniquity with you, I trust I have been able
to convince her of her position since she returned to me.'

"'Indeed, Harry,' says I, 'morning, noon, and night, mother is preaching to me, and I really
wish I was dead, to have a little quiet.'

"'Tut, tut,' says he, 'if you were really ill, you would not speak so briskly about dying;'
and he tried to soothe me down, but I kept very sulky--but yet when he went away he did not
believe there was much the matter with me.

"'We must make you really ill,' says my mother, when he was gone; so she got some stuff for
me to take, and I swallowed it, and I really did think as I was dying. I never felt as bad
before or since, and even mother was frightened that she had made it too strong, but she sent
for Harry, and he was frightened too. She said that I had poisoned myself, and was going to
die with the scorn of every one.

"'Oh, if you would but acknowledge yourself her husband, it would be enough, quite enough,
to let her die with her mind easy and her name cleared,' says mother to him.

"Harry had no notion I took things so serious, but he supposed that my mother had driven me
to desperation by her reproaches, so he said he would do as she wished, and mother fetched
Violet Strachan, our cousin, and a woman called Wilson, from next door to be witnesses, and
he said he was my husband, and I said I was his wife, in their presence. Harry thought that
was enough, but mother wanted to make it surer still, for she wrote it out, and we all signed
it, and here it is." Then Mrs. Peck drew out this document from her bundle of papers.

"This is a marriage in Scotland. Without the paper it was a marriage, but mother liked to see
things in black and white. Harry never could get out of it--though he said afterwards that
he did not know what he was about when he signed it.

"Of course after mother had carried her point I was allowed to get well, but slowly, for the
stuff had really half poisoned me. Harry was in London with his brother when my boy Frank was
born; but he came to me as soon as he could, and by ill-luck it happened that the very day
he came my old sweetheart Jamie Stevenson was paying me a visit, and Harry heard something
that was not meant for him, and off he set without seeing me or the child either. He sent me
a letter, saying I had cheated him first and last, and he would never look at me again."

"Then your boy was not Henry Hogarth's son," said Brandon, eagerly, who thought he had got
hold of the important part of the story, "but this man Stevenson's?"

"You're quite out in your guesses, Mr. Brandon, for as clever as you think yourself; it does
not concern my story a bit, but I will say this, that my Frank was Harry's own son."

"Then, were you married in this irregular way to Jamie Stevenson in the first place?" said
Brandon, who saw no prospect of proving the desired non-cousinship.

"No, I wasn't. But Jamie was doing better in the world then, and he was saying, thinking that
I wasn't married, that for all that had come and gone, if the father would provide for the
bairn any way handsome, he'd marry me yet, and I did not see much good in being the wife of
a gentleman that would always be ashamed of me, and never bring me forward. Mother thought
he would do that, but I knew the man better by this time. So I was telling Jamie that if I
had only thought he'd have made me so good an offer I'd never have followed mother's counsel,
but have taken him that I liked twice as well as Harry; and, may be, it would have been better
for me if Harry had not been so soft and mother so positive. This was what Harry Hogarth heard
that angered him so terribly, and he said I had cheated him. He sent me money, but he vowed
he would never look me in the face again. Well, when Frank was about fourteen months old, Harry's
other brother died. There was an awful mortality in the family at that time--three within two
years; and then he came in for the property. Mother was in an awful passion at my having had
anything to say to Jamie, and losing hold on my rich husband through my stupidity. But I was
his wife, and must be provided for at any rate. So he wanted to make terms with me, and proposed
that I should go out of the country altogether--to Sydney--where he would give me a decent
maintenance for myself and the child. Mother, at first, would not listen to this, and neither
would I; but wanted to go to law for my rights. But when he said he would expose everything
about the marriage if we did, we gave in, and agreed to go to the ends of the earth to please
him. And, after we had made up our minds to it, we rather liked the notion of getting out of
Scotland. He would not trust to us going unless he saw us off; so he appointed to meet in London,
where the ship was to sail from, and he would arrange all things for our going off quiet and
comfortable; and then we was to part for ever. Mother, and me, and Frank, went to London, and
took lodgings in a very crowded lodging-house, full of people just ready to sail for America
or some other place--here to-day and away to-morrow--and there Frank fell ill. He had looked
a strong enough child; but I think the stuff mother gave me had hurt him, for he had every
now and then bad convulsion fits. Being used to them, we did not take much notice of them;
but now, when it was of such moment to us that the child should be alive, and that his father
should see him, then by ill-luck, just an hour before the time appointed for our meeting, Frank
took a worse fit than ever, and died in my arms. I was very vexed indeed, and sorry, for I
liked the child, and he was a very pretty little fellow, but mother was furious.

"'It's a good hundred a year out of our pocket,' said she. 'If he had only lived to get on
board, we need never have told Cross Hall about his dying afterwards--and he looked the picture
of health only yesterday. I wish some one would lend us a child! Maybe the woman in the next
room will. He never saw it, and he'd not know the difference between one child and another.'

"So mother went into the next room. It was let to a woman with one child, and she was to sail
for America the next day to join her husband, who had written for her. She seemed to be poor,
and mother had no doubt that for a pound or so she would lend us the child; but when she went
into the room the mother was out, and the child was lying on the bed asleep. Mother was very
quick and clever. Our boy was so changed with the convulsions that I would never have known
him again; and this boy was much the same size and age, and not very unlike him, so she slipped
off the child's nightgown and put poor Frank's clothes on it, and dressed my dead child in
the nightgown she took off, and put it in the bed. She would not give me time to cry, but got
into a hackney coach and rode off to where we were to meet Harry. She told me afterwards that
she meant to take back the woman her child, if possible; but, in case of not being able to
do it, she got all our luggage which was ready packed, into the hackney coach, and paid the
woman of the house all we owed her.

"When I saw Harry again he looked changed--far graver and duller. I was full of sorrow about
Frank; and I cried sore when I saw his father. But then he thought I only cried, out of cunning,
to get something more out of him. Harry took the child in his arms and looked at it all over.
'Poor thing,' says he--'poor thing!' and I saw a tear drop on that stranger's face. My own
boy--his own boy--he had never touched, and never looked at. I was jealous and fierce at both
of them, in my grief and my rage; but mother was pleased to see him so taken up with the child,
for she thought it would be all the better for us.

"'Well,' says he, 'are you ready to go on board this afternoon? for the ship will get off to
night with the tide, and I will see you all right.'

