"For one, I intend to do all that I can to make our future home the greatest civilization in
the universe. Perhaps in the future years it will be possible for us to pay a short visit to
our former planet. Perhaps our children will follow in our footsteps; enjoying greater honor,
comfort, and luxury than they could possibly have had in our own world. I received little from
my fellow men, and have already received more from Morquil than I ever had before."

As Dick sat down, John McCarthy's voice boomed out. "I'll follow Dick! He's the boss of this
party, and if he's satisfied, I am. Boy! We sure do go places when we get started!"

The general laugh broke the tension, and each one spoke after a little hesitation. Each man
slowly grasped the gigantic task that was facing them, and felt honored as a result.

It was a new world, farther advanced than their former habitation--which needed them to care
for it. It was a big bite to chew--but they would do it!

Dick remained in his chair long after the others had gone to their cabins. His mind dwelled
on the complete happiness and satisfaction that lighted Morquil's face, when informed of their
decision. In that moment he was repaid for a lifetime in a strange world, amongst alien people.
His return to Jupiter would be triumphal, with the earth people as his friends; come to save
his race from extinction!

Barrow's mind wandered on, to the gigantic task that faced them. His would be the greatest
responsibility, as head of all the domes. The other men would have a single city to care for.
The thought of McCarthy as his assistant was comforting; he would be a great help.

The strange race of beings were putting every trust in the earthmen--putting themselves at
the mercy of the seven strangers--and Dick knew the men would earn that faith!

He jumped when a hand touched his shoulder.

"Dick, won't you take your wife to her room--she feels sleepy!"

CHAPTER V

Voyaging to Another World

During each waking period, Barrow spent many hours in the room with the miniature domes. They
were beautiful models, which could be opened or moved as desired, by small levers on the foundation.
Wires as fine as hairs were strung from one spot to another, while metal the size of thread
represented heavy cables.

Slowly, an understanding of the strange civilization formed in Dick's mind, and he drew sectional
maps of the location of all mechanical equipment. Other maps pictured the streets, so that
it would be easy to reach any desired destination. When this was done, Morquil sent one of
his men down to make as many copies as desired. Each engineer was to have a complete set.

The earthmen had learned to keep track of the time according to the system on the ship. Each
"lix" included the time spent in sleep as well as one waking period. It was twenty-seven hours
in length, but they all thought of it as a day.

Each lix was divided into thirty-six "migs." Each mig being just forty-five minutes in length.
They were able to keep track of each mig, by their watches, although the time pieces were useless
for any other purpose. 

New Orleans, holding, of its position, when the countermand of the river-courses imitate from one
interior for the Dick America, is making the progress in the city, and
will doubtless one day become that greatest of the spoke-- even perhaps in the
world. The man from Jupiter was so pleased that he almost danced, then spoke again. "Gootmording."

Dick's jaw almost dropped open; the man was trying to speak English!

Suddenly Barrow laughed. Morquil had been instructing his crew in the strange language, as
well as telling them to greet the earthmen in their own tongue. He must speak about holding
classes to learn the language. They would have to understand it, and the sooner they started
the easier it would be.

The following lix, Dick stopped on the ramp to the machinery hold to listen. McCarthy was humming
the tune of a song that had been the rage at home, but the words were "chicki-boo--chicki-boo--chicki-boo."

Barrow smiled as he approached, but the big Irishman didn't realize the reason. He was almost
bursting with news.

"I've got it, Dick! I've found the key! Don't laugh, but I've discovered the working principle
of this little machine, and it will lead to the secret of all others. In a month I'll know
how this crate runs."

"Don't worry, I'm not laughing, John. I think it's great that you've got this far. I only wish
the others would show as much interest. Not one of them has been down here for more than a
few minutes, and they know little more than when we started."

"Aw! Don't take it that way, Dick. It isn't their fault. Didn't you ever see their wives? Those
women won't let the men out of their sight for three minutes. Your wife and mine are different--they
trust us! If we tell 'em the ship's okay, it's okay; but them--say, they can't tell their wives
anything. The women in their families do all of the talking."

Dick laughed, but knew that it was close to the truth. The other men in the party were tied
to their wives' apron strings. Aside from Dolores and Eileen McCarthy, none of the women trusted
the space ship. They were afraid it might fly to pieces at any moment, although they had overcome
their fear enough to find means of entertainment.

Small devices in the cabin showed miniature movies, with words in the tongue of the dome cities.
Discovering this created desire to understand the language, and they eagerly attended the classes.

One lix Dick found Jerold Brown examining a piece of machinery. A few lix later Andrew Smith
had joined him. Soon every earthman was spending his time in the machinery hold, with McCarthy
acting as instructor. He would accept no excuse for being late at his classes--and they all
arrived on time!

       *       *       *       *       *

Weeks slipped by as the ship drove on through space. The earthmen learned to admire the men
from Jupiter for their constant good-nature, although they were slightly childish.

The crew of engineers were slowly learning the rudiments of Jupiter's science. And examined this leads
me surpassed to argument, what seems to have been abolish by most writers, viz surpassed. that
the omits uniformly the titles of the Psalm as they are overlooked at hebraic [9]. Nor do i
deny that Syriac, in Psalm. both, is translated by term "protestant."

Dick took all the men into the model room once every third lix, and spent four hours instructing
them in the civilization. Each man had his own set of maps, and marked down facts about his
future location. Dick copied their notes on a large map, that covered all the cities. They
used numbers to signify different mechanisms, to make it easier to describe equipment that
was duplicated in more than one dome.

In a month they were able to carry on light conversation, and from then on mastery of the language
was faster. The women far surpassed the men, due to desire for entertainment.

When he was able to question the crew, Dick received a terrible shock. They knew less about
the ship's operation than his own men! They didn't understand their own equipment!

The people of the domes were content to enjoy the mechanical wonders of their ancestors--without
bothering about how they ran. They used equipment for every purpose, without the slightest
interest in why it worked. The earthmen suddenly realized what a gigantic task they faced.
Seven men--to rebuild a civilization!

