 In this last the
seeing eye can already detect the presence of that close intimacy between the play and the
people which was to make the drama a 'national possession' in England. The devil, with his
grimaces and gambols, was one of themselves, was a true rustic at heart, and they shrieked
and shouted with delight as he pinched their arms or slapped them on the back. The freer invention
in dialogue is equally plain. Much that is said by Adam and the Devil has no place in the scriptural
account of the Fall, and the importance of this for the development of these dramas cannot
be exaggerated.

The move into the open air was not accidental. Every year these sacred plays drew larger congregations
to the festival service. Every year the would-be spectators for whom the church could not find
standing room grumbled more loudly. In the churchyard (which was still within the holy precincts)
there was ample space for all. So into the churchyard the performers went. The valuable result
of this was the creation of a raised stage, made necessary for the first time by the crushing
of the people. But alas, what could be said for the sanctity of the graves when throngs trampled
down the well-kept grass, and groups of men and women fought for the possession of the most
recent mounds as highest points of vantage? Those whose dead lay buried there raised effectual
outcries against this desecration. To go back into the church seemed impossible. The next move
had to be into the street. It was at this point that there set in that alienation of the Church
from the Stage which was never afterwards removed. Clerical actors were forbidden to play in
the streets. As an inevitable consequence, the learned language, Latin, was replaced more and
more by the people's own tongue. Soon the festivals assumed a nature which the stricter clergy
could not view with approval. From miles around folk gathered together for merriment and trading.
There were bishops who now denounced public plays as instruments of the devil.

Thus the drama, having outgrown its infancy, passed from the care of the Church into the hands
of the Laity. It took with it a tradition of careful acting, a store of Biblical subjects,
a fair variety of characters--including a thundering Herod and a mischievous Devil--and some
measure of freedom in dialogue. It gained a native language and a boundless popularity. But
for many long years after the separation the Epiphany Plays continued to be acted in the churches,
and by their very existence possibly kept intact the link with religion which preserved for
the public Mysteries and Miracles an attitude of soberness and reverence in the hearts of their
spectators. The so-called Coventry Play of the fifteenth century is a testimony to the persistence
of the serious religious element in the final stage of these popular Bible plays.

[Footnote 1: Mr. E.K. Chambers's translation.]

[Footnote 2: Mr. E.K. Chambers's translation.]

CHAPTER II

ENGLISH MIRACLE PLAYS

Most of what has been said hitherto has referred to the rise of religious plays on the continent.
The first recorded presentation of a play in England occurred in Dunstable--under the management
of a schoolmaster, Geoffrey--about the year 1110. Probably, therefore, the drama was part of
the new civilization brought over by the Normans, and came in a comparatively well-developed
form. The title of Geoffrey's play, St. Katherine, points to its having been of the St. Nicholas
type, a true Miracle Play, belonging to a much later stage of development than the early Pastores
or Quem Quaeritis?. We need not look, then, for shadowy gropings along the dramatic path. Instead
we may expect to find from the very commencement a fair grasp of essentials and a rapidly maturing
belief that the people were better guardians of the new art than the Church.

We know nothing of St. Katherine except its name. Of contemporary plays also we know practically
nothing. A writer of the late twelfth century tells us that Saint Plays were well favoured
in London. This statement, coupled with the fact that all sacred plays, saintly wonder-workings
and Bible stories alike, were called Miracles in England, gives a measure of support to Ten
Brink's suggestion that the English people at first shrank from the free treatment of Bible
stories on the stage, until their natural awe and reverence had become accustomed to presentations
of their favourite saints.

Passing over the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, therefore, as centuries in which the idea
of the drama was filtering through the nation and adapting itself to its new audiences, we
take up the story again in the fourteenth century, before the end of which we know that there
were completed the four great plays still preserved to us--the Chester, Wakefield, York, and
Coventry Miracles. Early in that century the Pope created the festival of Corpus Christi (about
the middle of June). To this festival we must fix most of our attention.

Glancing back a few pages we shall recall the elaboration of the play of the Magi from one
bare incident to what was really a connected series of episodes from the scene of the 'Shepherds'
to the 'Massacre of the Innocents'. It grew by the addition of scene to scene until the series
was complete. But the 'Massacre of the Innocents' only closed the Christmas story. For the
festival of Easter fresh ground must be broken in order that the 'Passion' might be fittingly
set forth, and, in fact, we know that both stories in full detail eventually found a place
in the more ambitious churches, any difficulty due to their length being overcome by extending
the duration of the festivals. Then a time came when, even as St. Matthew was anxious to lay
the foundations of his Gospel firm and sure in the past, so some writer of Bible plays desired
to preface his life of Jesus with a statement of the reason for His birth, and the 'Fall of
Man' was inserted. In writing such an introductory play he set going another possible series.
To explain the Serpent's part in the 'Fall' there was wanted a prefatory play on 'Satan's Revolt
in Heaven', and to demonstrate the swift consequence of the 'Fall', another play on 'Cain and
Abel'; the further story of the 'Flood' would represent the spread of wickedness over the earth;
in fact, the possible development could be bounded only by the wide limits of the entire Bible,
and, of more immediate influence, by the restrictions of time. That this extension of theme
was not checked until these latter limits had been reached may be judged from the fact that
in one place it was customary to start the play between four or five o'clock in the morning,
acting it scene after scene until daylight failed. But this was when the Corpus Christi festival
had become the chief dramatic season, combining in its performances the already lengthy series
associated respectively with Christmas and Easter. Between the 'Massacre of the Innocents'
and the 'Betrayal' (the point at which the Easter play usually started) a few connecting scenes
were introduced, after which the Corpus Christi play could fairly claim to be a complete story
of 'The Fall and Redemption of Man'. Admittedly of crude literary form, yet full of reverence
and moral teaching, and with powers of pathos and satire above the ordinary, it became one
single play, the sublimest of all dramas. To regard it as a collection of separate small plays
is a fatal mistake--fatal both to our understanding of the single scenes and to our comprehension
of the whole.

Yet the space at our disposal forbids our dealing here with every scene of any given play (or
cycle, as a complete series is commonly called). The most that can be done is to give a list
of the subjects of the scenes, and specimens of the treatment of a selected few. This list,
however, should not be glanced through lightly and rapidly. The title of each scene should
be paused over and the details associated with the title recalled. In no other way can the
reader hope to comprehend the play in its fullness.

Here are the scenes of the Coventry Play.

1. The Creation. 2. The Fall of Man. 3. Cain and Abel. 4. Noah's Flood. 5. Abraham's Sacrifice.
6. Moses and the Two Tables. 7. The Prophets. 8. The Barrenness of Anna. 9. Mary in the Temple.
10. Mary's Betrothment. 11. The Salutation and Conception. 12. Joseph's Return. 13. The Visit
to Elizabeth. 14. The Trial of Joseph and Mary. 15. The Birth of Christ. 16. The Adoration
of the Shepherds. 17. The Adoration of the Magi. 18. The Purification. 19. The Slaughter of
the Innocents. 20. Christ Disputing in the Temple. 21. The Baptism of Christ. 22. The Temptation.
23. The Woman taken in Adultery. 24. Lazarus. 25. The Council of the Jews. 26. The Entry into
Jerusalem. 27. The Last Supper. 28. The Betraying of Christ. 29. King Herod. 30. The Trial
of Christ. 31. Pilate's Wife's Dream. 32. The Condemnation and Crucifixion of Christ. 33. The
Descent into Hell. 34. The Burial of Christ. 35. The Resurrection. 36. The Three Maries. 37.
Christ Appearing to Mary. 38. The Pilgrim of Emaus. 39. The Ascension. 40. The Descent of the
Holy Ghost. 41. The Assumption of the Virgin. 42. Doomsday.

One dominant characteristic is observed by every student of the original play, namely, the
maintenance of a lofty elevation of tone wherever the sacredness of the subject demands it.
The simple dramatic freedom of that day brought God and Heaven upon the stage, and exhibited
Jesus in every circumstance of his life and death; yet on no occasion does the play descend
from the high standard of reverence which such a subject demanded, or derogate from the dignity
of the celestial Father and Son. That this was partly due to the Bible will be admitted at
once. But there is great credit due to the writer (or writers) who could keep so true a sense
of proportion that in scenes even of coarse derision, almost bordering on buffoonery, the central
figure remained unsoiled and unaffected by his surroundings. A writer less filled with the
religious sense must have been strongly tempted to descend to biting dialogue, in which his
hero should silence his adversaries by superiority in the use of their own weapon. A truer
instinct warned our author that any such scene must immediately tend to a lowering of character.
He refused, and from his pen is sent forth a Man whose conduct and speech are unassailably
above earthly taint, who is, amongst men, Divine.

Observe the impressive note struck in the opening verse. God stands amidst his angels, prepared
to exercise his sovereign wisdom in the work of creation.

    My name is knowyn, God and kynge,
      My werk for to make now wyl I wende[3],
    In myself restyth my reynenge,
      It hath no gynnyng ne non ende;
    And alle that evyr xal have beynge[4],
      It is closyd in my mende,
    Whan it is made at my lykynge,
      I may it save, I may it shende[5],
          After my plesawns[6].
    So gret of myth[7] is my pousté[8],
    Alle thyng xal be wrowth[9] be me,
    I am oo[10] God in personys thre,
          Knyt in oo substawns.

But before the world can be made, a rebellion has to be stamped out, and the same scene presents
the overthrow of Satan--not after days of doubtful battle as Milton later pictured it, but
in a moment at the word of the Almighty, 'I bydde the ffalle from hefne to helle'. At once
follows the creation of the world and man.

Scene 2 brings Adam and Eve before us, rejoicing in the abundant delights of Eden. The guiding
principle of the scene is the folly and wickedness of the Fall. Here is no thought of excuse
for silly Eve. With every good around her, and with God's prohibition unforgotten, she chooses
disobedience, and drags Adam after her. But Adam's guilt is no less than hers. The writer had
not Milton at his elbow to teach him how to twist the Bible narrative into an argument for
the superiority of man. Adam yields to the same sophistry as led Eve astray; and sin, rushing
in with the suddenness of swallowed poison, finds its first home not in her breast but in his.
The awful doom follows. In the desolation that succeeds, the woman's bitter sorrow is allowed
to move our pity at last. Eating at her heart is the thought, 'My husbond is lost because of
me', so that in her agony she begs Adam to slay her. The scene ends with her lamenting.

The foul contagion, spreading over the earth, has been washed out in the Flood and a fresh
start made before Scene 5 introduces Abraham. In an earlier paragraph we have spoken of the
pathos of which these plays were capable. Here in this scene it may be found. Abraham is, before
all things else, a father; Isaac is the apple of his eye. When as yet no cloud fills the sky
with the gloom of sacrifice, the old man exults in his glorious possession, a son. Isaac is
standing a little apart when his father turns with outstretched arms, exclaiming

    Now, suete sone, ffayre fare thi fface,
      fful hertyly do I love the,
    ffor trewe herty love now in this place,
      My swete childe, com, kysse now me.

Holding him still in his arms the fond parent gives him good counsel, to honour Almighty God,
to 'be sett to serve oure Lord God above'. And then, left alone for a while, Abraham, on his
knees, thanks God for His exceeding favour in sending him this comfort in his old age.

    Ther may no man love bettyr his childe,
      Than Isaac is lovyd of me;
    Almyghty God, mercyful and mylde,
      ffor my swete son I wurchyp the!
    I thank the, Lord, with hert ful fre,
      ffor this fayr frute thou hast me sent.
    Now, gracyous God, wher so he be,
      To save my sone evyr more be bent.

'To save my sone'--that is the petition of his full heart on the eve of his trial. Almost at
once the command comes, to kill the well-beloved as an offering to his Giver. And Abraham bows
low in heartbroken obedience. Well may the child say, as he trots by the old man's side with
a bundle of faggots on his shoulder, and looks up wonderingly at the wrinkled face drawn and
blanched with anguish, 'ffayr fadyr, ye go ryght stylle; I pray yow, fadyr, speke onto me.'
At such a time a man does well to bind his tongue with silence. Yet when at last the secret
is confessed, it finds the lad's spirit brave to meet his fate. Perhaps the writer had read,
not long before, of the steadfastness with which children met persecution in the days of the
Early Christian Church. For he gives us, in Isaac, a boy ready to die if his father wills it
so, happy to strengthen that will by cheerful resignation if God's command is behind it. At
the rough altar's side Abraham's resolution fails him; from his lips bursts the half-veiled
protest, 'The ffadyr to sle the sone! My hert doth clynge and cleve as clay'. But the lad encourages
him, bidding him strike quickly, yet adding sympathetically that his father should turn his
face away as he smites. The conquest is won. Love and duty conflict no longer. Only two simple
acts remain for love's performance: 'My swete sone, thi mouth I kys'; and when that last embrace
is over, 'With this kerchere I kure (cover) thi face', so that the priest may not see the victim's
agony. Then duty raises the knife aloft, and as it pauses in the air before its fearful descent
the Angel speaks--and saves.

The moving character of the opening, leading up to the sudden catastrophe and, by its tragic
contrast with what follows, throwing a vivid ray into the very centre and soul of that wonderful
trial of faith; the natural sequence and diversity of emotions, love, pride, thankfulness,
horror, submission, grief, resolution, and final joy and gratitude following each other like
light and shadow; the little touches, the suggestion to turn the face aside, the last kiss,
the handkerchief to hide the blue eyes of innocence; these are all, however crude the technique,
of the very essence of the highest art.

As will be seen from the list, only two scenes more refer to Old Testament history, and then
Jesus, whom the author has already intended to foreshadow in Isaac (whence the lad's submission
to his father's will), begins to loom before us. The writer's religious creed prompted him
to devote considerable space to Mary, the mother of Jesus; for she is to be the link between
her Son and humanity, and therefore must be shown free from sin from her birth. The same motive
gives us a clue to the character of Joseph. That nothing may be wanting to give whiteness to
the purity of Mary, she is implicitly contrasted with the crude rusticity and gaffer-like obstinacy
of her aged husband. He is just such an old hobbling wiseacre as may be found supporting his
rheumatic joints with a thick stick in any Dorsetshire village. He is an old man before he
is required to marry her, and his protests against the proposed union, accompanied with many
a shake of the head, recall to modern readers the humour of Mr. Thomas Hardy. This is how he
receives the announcement when at length his bowed legs have, with sundry rests by the wayside,
covered the distance between his home and the Temple where Mary and the Priest await him:

    What, xuld I wedde? God forbede!
    I am an old man, so God me spede,
    And with a wyff now to levyn in drede,
          It wore neyther sport nere game.

He is told that it is God's will. Even the beauty of the bride-elect is delicately referred
to as an inducement. In vain. To all he replies:

    A! shuld I have here? ye lese my lyff:
      Alas! dere God, xuld I now rave?
    An old man may nevyr thryff
      With a yonge wyff, so God me save!
          Nay, nay, sere, lett bene,
    Xuld I now in age begynne to dote,
    If I here chyde she wolde clowte my cote,
    Blere myn ey, and pyke out a mote,
          And thus oftyn tymes it is sene.

Eventually, of course, he is won over; but the author promptly packs him into a far district
as soon as the ceremony is over, nor does he permit him to return to Mary's side until long
after the Annunciation.

'The Adoration of the Magi' (Scene 17) introduces us to a very notable person, no other than
Herod, the model of each 'robustious periwig-pated fellow' who on the stage would 'tear a passion
to tatters, to very rags', and so out-herod Herod. He is of old standing, a veteran of the
Church Epiphany plays, and has already learnt 'to split the ears of the groundlings' with the
stentorian sound of his pompous rhetoric. Hear him declaim:

    As a lord in ryalté in non regyon so ryche,
      And rulere of alle remys[11], I ryde in ryal aray;
    Ther is no lord of lond in lordchep to me lyche,
      Non lofflyere, non lofsumere[12],--evyr lestyng is my lay:
    Of bewté and of boldnes I bere evermore the belle;
      Of mayn and of myght I master every man;
    I dynge with my dowtynes the devyl down to helle,
      ffor bothe of hevyn and of herthe I am kynge sertayn.

In Scene 19 we hear him issuing his cruel order for the killing of the children. But when the
foul deed is done there await the murderer two kings whom he cannot slay, Death and the Devil.
A banquet is in full swing, Herod's officers are about him, the customary rant and bombast
is on his lips when those two steal in. 'While the trumpets are sounding, Death slays Herod
and his two soldiers suddenly, and the Devil receives them'--so runs the terse Latin stage-direction.

Of the Devil we have more than enough in Scene 22, for it opens with an infernal council, Sathanas,
Belyalle, and Belsabub debating the best means of testing the divinity of Jesus and of thereby
making sure whether or no another lord has been placed over them. The plan decided upon is
the Temptation. But great is Satan's downfall. 'Out, out, harrow! alas! alas!' is the cry (one
that had become very familiar to his audience) as he hastens back to Hell, leaving the Heavenly
Hero crowned with glorious victory. This is one of several scenes chosen by the author for
the glorifying of his central character. Perhaps they culminate in 'The Entry into Jerusalem'.

The scenes that now succeed each other, marking each stage of the sorrowful descent to death,
are notable chiefly for that quality to which attention has already been drawn, namely, the
dignity which surrounds the character of the Hero. This dignity is not accidental. On the contrary
it would have been easy to fall into the error of exciting so much compassion that the sufferer
became a pitiably crushed victim of misfortune. With much skill the writer places his most
pathetic lines in the mouths of the two Maries, diverts upon them the sharpest edge of our
pity, and never for a moment allows Jesus to appear overwhelmed. When a Jew, in 'The Trial
of Christ', speaks in terms of low insolence, addressing him as 'thou, fela (fellow)' and striking
him on the cheek, Jesus replies:

    Yf I have seyd amys,
      Thereof wytnesse thou mayst bere;
    And yf I have seyd but weyl in this,
      Tho dost amys me to dere[13].

Again, in answer to Cayphas's outrageous scream of fury, 'Spek man, spek! spek, thou fop!...
I charge the and conjure, be the sonne and the mone, that thou telle us and (if) thou be Goddys
sone!', Jesus says calmly, 'Goddys sone I am, I sey not nay to the!' Still later in the same
scene, the silence of Jesus before Herod (sustained through forty lines or more of urging and
vile abuse, besides cruel beatings) lifts Him into infinite superiority over the blustering,
bullying judge and his wretched instruments. It is true that the Bible gives the facts, but
with the freedom allowed to the dramatist the excellence of the original might have been so
easily spoilt.

To Mary is reserved perhaps the deepest note of pathos within the play. The scene is 'The Crucifixion
of Christ', and she is represented lying at the foot of the Cross. Jesus has invoked God's
forgiveness for His murderers, He has promised salvation to the repentant thief, but to her
He has said nothing, and the omission sends a fear to her heart like the blackness of midnight.
Has she, unconsciously, by some chance word or deed, lost His love at the close of life? The
thought is too terrible.

    O my sone! my sone! my derlyng dere!
      What[14] have I defendyd[15] the?
    Thou hast spoke to alle tho[16] that ben here,
      And not o word thou spekyst to me!

    To the Jewys thou art ful kende,
      Thou hast forgeve al here[17] mysdede;
    And the thef thou hast in mende,
      For onys haskyng mercy hefne is his mede.

    A! my sovereyn Lord, why whylt thou not speke
      To me that am thi modyr in peyn for thi wrong?
    A! hert! hert! why whylt thou not breke?
      That I were out of this sorwe[18] so stronge!

The remaining scenes bring on the final triumph of the Hero over Death and Hell, and the culmination
of the great theme of the play in the Redemption of Man. Adam is restored, not indeed to the
Garden of Eden, but to a supernal Paradise.

Certain common features of the Miracles remain to be pointed out before we close our volume
of the Coventry Play, for it will provide us with examples of most of them.

One of the first things that strike us is the absence of dramatic rules. Not an absence of
dramatic cohesion. To its audience, for whom the story of the Mission of Jesus still retained
its freshness, each scene unfolded a further stage in the rescue of man from the bondage of
Hell. It is not a mere matter of chronology. The order may be the order of the sacred chronicle,
but to these early audiences it was also the order of a sacred drama. The 'Sacrifice of Isaac'
is not merely the next event of importance after the 'Flood': it is a dramatic forecast of
the last sacrifice of all, the Sacrifice of Christ. Even though we admit, as in some cases
we must, that the Plays are heterogeneous products of many hands working separately, and therefore
without dramatic regard for other scenes, it is not unreasonable to suppose that when the official
text was decided upon, the several scenes may have been accommodated to the interests of the
whole. Moreover, the innate relationship of scenes drawn from the Bible gives of itself a certain
dramatic cohesion. Of the so-called Dramatic Unities of Time and Place, however, there is no
suggestion; there is no unity of characters; there is no consideration of what may be shocking,
what pleasing as a spectacle. Whoever saw the whole play through was hurried through thousands
of years, was carried from heaven to earth and down to hell; he beheld kings, shepherds, high
priests, executioners, playing their parts with equal effect and only distinguished by the
splendour or meanness of their apparel; he was a witness to Satan's overthrow, to Abel's death,
and was a spectator at the flogging and crucifixion of Jesus. It is easy for those acquainted
with the later drama (of Greene especially) to see the direct line of descent from these Miracles
to the Shakespearian stage.

One interesting feature of these plays is the frequent appearance of Angels and Devils on the
stage. This accustomed the audience to the entrance of the supernatural, in solid form, into
the realm of the natural; and paved the way for those most substantial ghosts which showed
themselves so much at home on the Elizabethan stage. We should be not far wrong, perhaps, in
describing the later introduction of the Senecan Ghost into English drama as an innovation
only in name: the supernatural had been a familiar factor in heightening dramatic interest
long before The Misfortunes of Arthur or The Spanish Tragedy were written.--Of the Devils even
more may be said. Their picturesque attire,[19] their endless pranks (not set down in the text),
their reappearance and disappearance at the most unexpected times, their howls and familiar
'Harrow and owt! owt and alas!' were a constant delight, and preserved their popularity unexhausted
for two hundred years, securing for them a place in the later forms of drama when the Miracles
were supplanted by Moralities and Interludes. The Devil's near cousin, Herod, attained to a
similar reputation and longevity. Has even modern melodrama quite lost that immortal type of
the ranting, bombastic tyrant and villain?

The women in the play deserve notice. With the exception of Noah's wife, who was commonly treated
in a broadly humorous vein, the principal female characters possess that sweet naturalness,
depth and constancy of affection, purity and refinement which an age that had not yet lost
the ideals of chivalry accepted as the normal qualities of a good woman. The mothers, wives,
and daughters of that day would appear to have been before all things womanly, in an unaffected,
instinctive way. Isaac (in the Chester Miracle Play), thinking, in the hour of death, of his
mother's grief at home, says, 'Father, tell my mother for no thinge.' When Mary is married
(Coventry Play) and must part from her mother, they bid farewell in this wise:

    Anna.   I pray the, Mary, my swete chylde,
              Be lowe[20] and buxhum[21], meke and mylde,
              Sad and sobyr and nothyng wylde,
                    And Goddys blessynge thou have....

              Goddys grace on you sprede,
                ffarewel, Mary, my swete fflowre,
              ffareweyl, Joseph, and God you rede[22],
                ffareweyl my chylde and my tresowre,
                    ffarewel, my dowtere yyng.[23]

    Maria.  ffarewel, fadyr and modyr dere,
              At you I take my leve ryght here,
              God that sytt in hevyn so clere,
                    Have you in his kepyng.

The heartbroken words of Mary at the foot of the Cross have already been quoted. In the reconciliation
between Joseph and Mary (Scene 12), in Mary's patient endurance of Joseph's bad temper on the
journey to Bethlehem (Scene 15), in the mother's unrestrained misery at the loss of the boy
Jesus and rapture on finding Him in the Temple (Scene 20), in the two sisters' forced cheerfulness
by the bedside of the dying Lazarus and their sorrow at his death--nor do these by any means
exhaust the number of favourable instances--there may be seen the basic elements, as it were,
which, more deftly handled and blended, gave to the English stage the world's rarest gallery
of noble women.

Darkness and grief are so woven into the substance of the Bible narrative that we should indeed
have been surprised if the tragic note had not been sounded often throughout the play. That
it could be sounded well, too, will have been seen from various references and from the Scene
of Abraham's Sacrifice. Nevertheless, tragedy is a less interesting, less original, less English
element than the comedy which pops up its head here, there, and everywhere. It is really a
part of that absence of dramatic rules already indicated, this easy conjunction of tragedy
and comedy in the same scene. English audiences never could be persuaded to forgo their laugh.
After all, it was near neighbour to their tears throughout life; then why not on the stage?
A funeral was not the less a warning to the living because it was rounded off with a feast.
Nor was Jesus on the Cross robbed of any of the majesty and silent eloquence of vicarious suffering
by the vulgar levity of those who bade him 'Take good eyd (heed) to oure corn, and chare (scare)
awey the crowe'. The strong sentiment of reverence set limits to the application of this humour.
Only minor characters were permitted to express themselves in this way. The soldiers at the
Sepulchre, the Judaeans at the Cross, the 'detractors' in Scene 14, certain mocking onlookers
in Scene 40, these and others of similar stage rank spoke the coarse jests that set free the
laugh when tears were too near the surface.--These common fellows, by the way, are the prototypes
of the familiar Citizens, Soldiers, Watch, of a later date: the Miracles were fertile in 'originals'.--Some
characters there were, however, more individual, more of consequence than these, who attained
to an established reputation for their humour. The Devil's pranks have been referred to; Joseph's
rusticity also; and the obstinacy of Noah's wife has been obscurely hinted at. Her gift lay
in preferring the company of her good gossips to the select family gathering assembled in the
Ark, and in playing with Noah's ears very soundingly when at length she was forcibly dragged
into safety. Two short extracts from the Chester Miracle will illustrate her humour.

                        (1)

           Noye.  Wyffe, in this vessel we shall be kepte,
                    My children and thou; I would in ye lepte.

    Noyes Wiffe.  In fayth, Noye, I hade as leffe thou slepte!
                        For all thy frynishe[24] fare,
                    I will not doe after thy reade[25].

           Noye.  Good wyffe, doe nowe as I thee bydde.

    Noyes Wiffe.  Be Christe! not or I see more neede,
                        Though thou stande all the daye and stare.

           Noye.  Lorde, that wemen be crabbed aye,
                    And non are meke, I dare well saye;
                    This is well seene by me to daye,
                        In witnesse of you ichone[26].

                        (2)

        Jeffate.  Mother, we praye you all together,
                    For we are heare, youer owne childer,
                    Come into the shippe for feare of the weither,
                        For his love that you boughte!

    Noyes Wiffe.  That will not I, for all youer call,
                    But I have my gossippes all.

            Sem.  In faith, mother, yett you shalle,
                        Wheither thou wylte or [nought].

           Noye.  Welckome, wiffe, into this botte.

    Noyes Wiffe.  Have thou that for thy note!

           Noye.  Ha, ha! marye, this is hotte!
                        It is good for to be still.

[The reader will easily supply for himself appropriate stage-directions.]

But of all these comic characters none developed so excellent a genius for winning laughter
as the Shepherds who 'watched their flocks by night, all seated on the ground'. To see them
at their best we must turn to the Wakefield (or Towneley) Miracle Play and read the pastoral
scene (or, rather, two scenes) there. Here we come face to face with rustics pure and simple,
downright moorland shepherds, homely, grumbling, coarsely clad, warm-hearted, abashed by a
woman's tongue, rough in their sports. The real old Yorkshire stock of nearly six hundred years
ago rises into life as we read.

In the first scene a beginning is made by the entrance of a single shepherd, grumpy, frost-bitten,
and growling rebelliously against the probably widely resented practice of purveyance whereby
a nobleman might exact from his farm-tenantry provisions and service for his needs, even though
the farmer's own land should suffer from neglect in consequence. Thus he says,

    No wonder, as it standys, if we be poore,
    For the tylthe of oure landys lyys falow as the floore,
                As ye ken.
          We ar so hamyd[27],
          For-taxed[28] and ramyd[29],
          We ar mayde hand-tamyd,
                Withe thyse gentlery men.
    Thus they refe[30] us oure rest, Oure Lady theym wary[31]!
    These men that ar lord-fest, thay cause the ploghe tary.
    That men say is for the best we fynde it contrary.
    Thus ar husbandys opprest, in pointe to myscary,
                On lyfe.

By way of excuse for his grumblings he adds in conclusion,

    It dos me good, as I walk thus by myn oone,
    Of this warld for to talk in maner of mone.

The second shepherd, who enters next, has other grounds for discontent. He, poor man, has a
vixen for a wife.

    As sharp as thystille, as rugh as a brere,
    She is browyd lyke a brystylle, with a sowre loten chere;
    Had she oones well hyr whystyll she couth syng fulle clere
                        Hyr pater noster.
                She is as greatt as a whalle
                She has a galon of galle.

Conversation opens between the two, but rapidly comes to a dispute. Fortunately the timely
arrival of a third shepherd dissipates the cloud, and they are quite ready to hear his complaints--this
time of wide-spreading floods--coupled with further reflections on the hard conditions of a
shepherd's lot. By this time the circle is complete, and a good supper and song are produced
to ratify the general harmony. But now enters the element of discord which forms the pivot
of the second scene. Mak, a boorish fellow shrewdly suspected of sheep stealing, joins them,
and, after some chaffing, is allowed to share their grassy bed. In the night he rises, picks
out the finest ram from the flock, drives it home, and hides it in the cradle. He then returns
to his place between two of the shepherds. As he foresaw, morning brings discovery, suspicion
and search. The three shepherds proceed to Mak's home, only to be confronted with the well
concocted story that his wife, having just become the mother of a sturdy son, must on no account
be disturbed. On this point apparently a compromise is effected, the search to be executed
on tip-toe, for the shepherds do somewhat poke and pry about, yet under so sharp a fire of
abuse as to render them nervous of pressing their investigations too closely. Thus they pass
the cradle by, and all would have gone well with Mak but for that same warm-heartedness of
which we spoke earlier. They are already out of the house when a true Christmas thought flashes
into the mind of one of them.

    1st Shepherd. Gaf ye the chyld any thyng?

    2nd Shepherd. I trow not oone farthyng.

    3rd Shepherd. Fast agayne wille I flyng,
                        Abyde ye me there.

                    [He returns to the house, the others following.]

                Mak, take it no grefe if I com to thi barne.

    Mak.      Nay, thou dos me greatt reprefe, and fowlle has thou
                    farne.[32]

    3rd Shepherd. The child wille it not grefe, that lytylle day
                        starne[33]?
                Mak, with youre leyfe, let me gyf youre barne
                        Bot vj pence.

    Mak.          Nay, do way: he slepys.

    3rd Shepherd. Me thynk he pepys.

    Mak.          When he wakyns he wepys.
                          I pray you go hence.

    3rd Shepherd. Gyf me lefe hym to kys, and lyft up the clowtt.
                What the dewille is this? he has a long snowte.

The cat is out of the bag. Mak, with an assurance worthy of a better cause, declines to believe
their report of the cradle's contents, and his wife comes nimbly to his aid with the startling
explanation that it is her son without doubt, for she saw him transformed by a fairy into this
misshapen changeling precisely on the stroke of twelve. Not so, however, are the shepherds
to be persuaded to disbelieve their eyes. Instead Mak gets a good tossing in a blanket for
his pains, the exertion of which sentence reduces the three to such drowsiness that soon they
are fast asleep again. From their slumber they are awakened by the Angel's Song; upon which
follows their journey with gifts to the newborn King.

Peculiar to the Coventry Miracle Play is the introduction of a new type of character, unhuman,
unreal, a mere embodied quality. In Scene 9, where Mary is handed over by her parents to the
care of the High Priest at the Temple, she finds provided for her as companions the five maidens,
Meditation, Contrition, Compassion, Cleanness and Fruition, while near by await her seven teachers,
Discretion, Devotion, Dilection, Deliberation, Declaration, Determination and Divination, a
goodly company of Doctors indeed. Of all these intangible figures one only, Milton's 'cherub
Contemplation', speaks, but the rest are quite obviously represented on the stage, though whether
all in flesh and blood may be matter for uncertainty. Much more talkative, on the other hand,
are similar abstractions in Scene 11. Here, in the presence of God, Contemplation and the Virtues
having appealed for an extension of mercy and forgiveness to man, Truth, Pity and Justice discuss
the question of Redemption from their particular points of view until God interposes with his
decision in its favour. Mention of this innovation in the Miracle Play seems advisable at this
point, though its bearing on later drama will be more clearly seen in the next chapter.

Little need be said of the verse commonly used in Miracles, save to point out the preference
for stanzas and for triple and quadruple rhymes. An examination of the verses quoted will reveal
something as to the variety of forms adopted. Those cited from Scenes 1, 4, and 32 illustrate
three types, while another favourite of the Coventry author takes the following structure (A),
with a variant in lines of half the length (B):

              (A) Angelus.

    Wendyth fforthe, ye women thre,
    Into the strete of Galylé;
    Your Savyour ther xul ye se
                  Walkynge in the waye.
    Your ffleschely lorde now hath lyff,
    That deyd on tre with strook and stryff;
    Wende fforthe, thou wepynge wyff,
                  And seke hym, I the saye.
                                  (Scene 36.)

              (B) Senescallus (to Herod).

    Sere kyng in trone,
    Here comyth anone
    By strete and stone
                Kynges thre.
    They bere present,--
    What thei have ment.
    Ne whedyr they arn bent,
                I cannot se.
                                  (Scene 17.)

Reference to the quotation from the Wakefield Play will discover in the north country author
an even greater propensity to rhyme.

There remains to be discussed the method of production of these plays. Fortunately we have
records to guide us in our suppositions. These date from the time when the complete Miracle
Play was a fully established annual institution. It is of that period that we shall speak.

Plays had from the first been under official management. When, therefore, the Church surrendered
control it was only natural that secular officialdom should extend its protection and guidance.
Local corporations, recognizing the commercial advantages of an attraction which could annually
draw crowds of country customers into the towns, made themselves responsible for the production
of the plays. While delegating all the hard work to the trade guilds, as being the chief gainers
from the invasion, they maintained central control, authorizing the text of the play, distributing
the scenes amongst those responsible for their presentation, and visiting any slackness with
proper pains and penalties. Under able public management Miracle Plays soon became a yearly
affair in every English town.

When the time came round for the festival to be held--Corpus Christi Day being a general favourite,
though Whitsuntide also had its adherents, and for some Easter was apparently not too cold--the
manuscript of the play was brought forth from the archives, the probable cost and difficulties
of each scene were considered, the strength or poverty of the various guilds was carefully
weighed, and finally as just an allocation was made as circumstances would permit. If two guilds
were very poor they were allowed to share the production of one scene. If a guild were wealthy
it might be required to manage two scenes, and those costly ones. For scenes differed considerably
in expense: such personages as God and Herod, and such places as Heaven or the Temple, were
a much heavier drain on the purse than, say, Joseph and Mary on their visit to Elizabeth. Where
there was no difficulty on the score of finance, a guild might be entrusted with a scene--if
there was a suitable one--which made special demands on its own craft. Thus, from the York
records we learn that the Tanners were given the Overthrow of Lucifer and his fellow devils
(who would be dressed in brown leather); the Shipwrights, the Building of the Ark; the Fishmongers
and Mariners jointly, the scene of Noah and his family in the Ark; the Goldsmiths, the Magi
(richly oriental); the Shoers of Horses, the Flight into Egypt; the Barbers, the Baptism by
John the Baptist (in camel's hair); the Vintners, the Marriage at Cana; the Bakers, the Last
Supper; the Butchers and Poulterers, the Crucifixion.

As soon as a Guild had been allotted its scene it appointed a manager to carry the matter through.
The individual expense was not great, somewhere between a penny and fourpence for each member.
Out of the sum thus raised had to be paid the cost of dresses and stage-scenery, and the actors'
remunerations (which included food during the period of rehearsals as well as on the actual
playing days). No such crude simplicity as is made fun of in the Midsummer Night's Dream was
admitted into the plays given in the towns, however natural it may have been to villages. Training
and expense were not spared by rival guilds. As we saw in the directions for the acting of
the old play of Adam, propriety in diction and behaviour on the part of the actors was insisted
upon as early as the tenth century. An interesting record (dated 1462) in the Beverley archives
states that a certain member of the Weavers' Guild was fined for not knowing his part. It would
be quite a mistake, therefore, to suppose that fifteenth-century acting was an unstudied art.
Similarly, caution must be used in ridiculing the stage-properties of that day. One has only
to peruse intelligently one of the bald lists of items of expenditure to discover that a placard
bearing such an inscription as 'The Ark' or 'Hell' was not the accepted means of giving reality
to a scene. The Ark was an elaborate structure demanding a team of horses for its entrance
and exit; while Hell-mouth, copying the traditional representations in mediaeval sculpture,
was a most ingenious contrivance, designed in the likeness of gaping jaws which opened and
shut in fearful style, emitting volumes of sulphurous smoke, not to mention awesome noises.
The 'make-ups' too were far from being the arbitrary fancies of the wearers. True, they possibly
bore no great resemblance to the originals. But that was due to an ignorance of history rather
than to carelessness about truth. The probability is that in many cases the images and paintings
in the churches were imitated, as being faithful likenesses. One has merely to call to mind
certain stained-glass windows to guess what sort of realism was reached and to understand how
it came about that Herod appeared in blue satin, Pilate and Judas respectively in green and
yellow, Peter in a wig of solid gilt (with beard to match), and Angels in white surplices.

For the stage a high platform was used, beneath which, curtained off from sight, the actors
could dress or await their cues. Above the stage (open on all four sides) was a roof, on which
presumably an 'angel' might lie concealed until the moment arrived for him to descend, when
a convenient rope lent aid to too flimsy wings. Contrariwise, the devil would lurk in the dressing-room,
if Hell-mouth were out of repair, until the word came for him to thrust the curtains aside,
dart out, pull his victim off the stage and bear him away to torment. The street itself was
quite freely used whenever conditions seemed to require it: messengers, for example, pushed
their way realistically through the crowd; devils ran merrily about in its open space; and
when Herod felt the whole stage too narrow to contain his fury he sought the ampler bounds
of the market-place to rage in. Sometimes two or more stages were placed in proximity to accommodate
actions that must take place at the same time. Thus we read in Scene 25 ('The Council of the
Jews') of the Coventry Play, 'Here xal Annas, shewyn hymself in his stage, be seyn after a
busshop of the hoold lawe, in a skarlet gowne, and over that a blew tabbard furryd with whyte,
and a mytere on his hed, after the hoold lawe' (the dress is interesting); and a little further
on, 'Here goth the masangere forth, and in the mene tyme Cayphas shewyth himself in his skafhald
arayd lyche to Annas'; while yet a little later appears this, 'Here the buschopys with here
(their) clerkes and the Phariseus mett, and (? in) the myd place, and ther xal be a lytil oratory
with stolys and cusshonys clenly be-seyn, lyche as it were a cownsel-hous'. There was another
custom, practised in Chester, and probably in other towns where the crowd was great. There
the whole stage, dressing-room and all, was mounted on wheels and drawn round the town, pausing
at appointed stations to present its scene. By this means the crowd could be widely scattered
(to the more equitable advantage of shopkeepers), for a spectator had only to remain at one
of these stations to behold, in due order of procession, the whole play acted. Thus mounted
on wheels the stage took the name of a pageant (or pagond, in ruder spelling),--a name soon
extended to include not only a stage without wheels but even the stage itself. It is used with
the latter meaning in the Prologue to the Coventry Play.

With regard to the time occupied by the play, it is not possible to do much more than guess,
since plays varied considerably in the number of their scenes. In one town, as we have said,
the whole performance was crowded into a single day, starting as early as 4.30 a.m. Chester,
on the other hand, devoted three days to its festival, while at Newcastle acting was confined
to the afternoons. Humane consideration for the actors forbade that they should be required
to act more than twice a day. They were well paid, as much as fourpence being given for a good
cock-crower (in 'The Trial of Christ'), while the part of God was worth three and fourpence:
no contemptible sums at a time when a quart of wine cost twopence and a goose threepence. A
little uncertainty exists as to the professional character of the actors, but the generally
approved opinion seems to be that they were merely members of the Guilds, probably selected
afresh each year and carefully trained for their parts. The more professional class, the so-called
minstrels or vagrant performers (descendants of the Norman jongleurs), possibly provided the
music, which appears to have filled a large and useful part in the plays.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Saint-plays, the original miracle-plays, continued, and doubtless were staged in the same
way as the Bible-plays. But the latter so completely eclipsed them in popularity that they
appear never to have attained to more than a haphazard existence. Their nature was all against
a dramatic subordination of the different plays to each other. Their subject was fundamentally
the same; placed in a series, they could unroll no larger theme, as could the individual scenes
of a Bible-play. For ambitious town festivals, therefore, they were too short. Few public bodies
considered it worth their while to adopt them; and as a consequence only one or two have been
preserved for our reading.

Those that remain with us, however, contain qualities which may make us wonder why they did
not receive greater recognition. It may be that we misjudge the extent of their popularity,
though survival is usually a fairly good guide. Certainly they shared, or borrowed, some of
the 'attractive' features of their rivals: there was not lacking a liberal flavour of the horrible,
the satanic, the coarse and the comical. Moreover, they possessed much greater possibilities
for purely dramatic effect. The cohesion of incidents was firmer, the evolution of the plot
more vigorous, the crisis more surprising, the opportunities for originality more plentiful.
The very fact that they could not easily be welded together as scenes in a larger play is a
testimonial to their art. They are more complete in themselves. They are, that is to say, a
further stage on the way to that Elizabethan drama which only became possible when all idea
of a day-long play had been discarded in favour of scenes more single and self-contained. The
sacredness, also, of the saintly narrative was less binding than that of the Bible story. Those
who had a compunction in caricaturing or coarsening the unholy or nameless people of the Scriptures
would feel their liberty immensely widened in a representation of the secular and heathen world
which surrounded their saint. This is clearly seen in the Miracle of the Sacrament, where the
figure of Jonathas the Jew is portrayed with distinct originality. His long recital of his
wealth in costly jewels, and the equally lengthy statement by Aristorius, the corruptible Christian
merchant, of his numerous argosies and profitable ventures, are early exercises in the style
perfected by Marlowe's Barabas. The whole story, from the stealing of the Sacred Host by Aristorius
and its sale to Jonathas, right on through the villainous assaults, by the Jew and his confederates,
upon its sanctity, and the miraculous manifestations of its power, to Jonathas's final conversion
and the restoration of the sacrament, is a very fair example of the power which these Saint
Plays possessed in the structure of plots.

[Footnote 3: go.]

[Footnote 4: being.]

[Footnote 5: destroy.]

[Footnote 6: pleasure.]

[Footnote 7: might.]

[Footnote 8: power.]

[Footnote 9: wrought.]

[Footnote 10: one.]

[Footnote 11: realms.]

[Footnote 12: more worthy.]

[Footnote 13: injure.]

[Footnote 14: how.]

[Footnote 15: offended.]

[Footnote 16: those.]

[Footnote 17: their.]

[Footnote 18: sorrow.]

[Footnote 19: See the stage-direction at the end of 'The Trial of Christ', 'Here enteryth Satan
into the place in the most orryble wyse, and qwyl (while) that he pleyth, thei xal don on Jhesus
clothis'.]

[Footnote 20: lowly.]

[Footnote 21: obedient.]

[Footnote 22: counsel.]

[Footnote 23: young.]

[Footnote 24: courtly.]

[Footnote 25: counsel.]

[Footnote 26: each one.]

[Footnote 27: crippled.]

[Footnote 28: overtaxed.]

[Footnote 29: overreached.]

[Footnote 30: rob.]

[Footnote 31: curse.]

[Footnote 32: done.]

[Footnote 33: star.]

CHAPTER III

MORALITIES AND INTERLUDES

Miracle (Bible) Plays had three serious faults, not accidental, but inherent in them. They
were far too long. Their story was well known and strictly confined by the two covers of the
Bible. Their characters were all provided by the familiar narrative. It is true that a few
additions to the canonical list were admitted, such as Cain's servant Garcio, Pilate's beadle,
and Mak the sheep-stealer. Lively characters were also created out of nonentities like the
various Judaeans and soldiers, and the shepherds. But these were all minors; they had no influence
on the course of the action, and the smallness of their part made anything like a full delineation
impossible. They were real men, recognizable as akin to local types, but no more; one never
knew anything of them beyond their simplicity or brutality. Meanwhile their superiors, clothed
in the stiff dress of tradition and reverence, passed over the stage with hardly an idea or
gesture to distinguish them from their predecessors of three centuries before.

The English nation grew tired of Bible Plays. There can be no doubt of this if we consider
the kind of play that for a time secured the first place in popularity. Only audiences weary
of its alternative could have waxed enthusiastic over The Castell of Perseverance or Everyman.
Something shorter was wanted, with an original plot and some fresh characters. To some extent,
as has been shown, the Saint Plays supplied these requirements, and one is tempted to suspect
that in the latter part of their career there was some subversion of the relative positions
of the two rival types of Miracle. But what was asked for was novelty. Both forms of the Miracle
were hundreds of years old, and both had to suffer the same fate, of relegation to a secondary
place in the Drama. In letting them pass from our notice, however, we must not exaggerate their
decline. The first Moralities appeared as early as the fifteenth century, but some of the great
Miracles (e.g. of Chester and York) lasted until near the end of the sixteenth century. For
some time, therefore, the latter must have held their own. Indeed the former probably met with
their complete success only when they had become merged in the Interludes.

In its purest form the Morality Play was simply the subject of the Miracle Play writ small,
the general theme of the Fall and Redemption of Man applied to the particular case of an individual
soul. The central figure was a Human Being; his varying fortunes as he passed from childhood
to old age supplied the incidents, and his ultimate destiny crowned the action. Around him
were grouped virtues and vices, at his elbows were his good and his bad angel, while at the
end of life waited Heaven or Hell to receive him, according to his merits and the mercy of
God. The merits were commonly minimized to emphasize the mercy, with happy results for the
interest of the play.

It is easy to see how all this harmonized with the mediaeval allegorical element in religion
and literature. A century earlier Langland had scourged wickedness in high places in his famous
allegory, Piers Plowman. A century later Spenser was to weave the most exquisite verse round
the defeats and triumphs of the spirit of righteousness in man's soul. Nor had allegory yet
died when Bunyan wrote, for all time, his story of the battling of Christian against his natural
failings. After all, a Morality Play was only a dramatized version of an inferior Pilgrim's
Progress; and those of us who have not wholly lost the imagination of our childhood still find
pleasure in that book. In judging the Moralities, therefore, we must not forget the audience
to which they appealed. We shall be the more lenient when we discover how soon they were improved
upon.

Influenced at first by the comprehensiveness of the plot in the Miracle Play, the writers of
the early Moralities were satisfied with the compression of action effected by the change from
the general to the particular theme. This had brought about a reduction in the time required
for the acting; and along with these gains had come the further advantages of novelty and originality.
Accordingly the author of The Castell of Perseverance (almost the only true Morality handed
down to us) was quite content to let his play run to well over three thousand lines, seeing
that within this space he set forth the whole life of a man from the cradle to the grave and
even beyond. But later writers were quick to see that this so-called particular theme was still
a great deal too general, leaving only the broadest outlines available for characters and incidents.
By omitting the stages of childhood and early manhood they could plunge at once into the last
stage, where, beneath the shadow of imminent destiny, every action had an intensified interest.
Moreover, within such narrowed boundaries each incident could be painted in detail, each character
finished off with more realistic traits. It was doubtless under such promptings that the original
Dutch Everyman was written, and the alacrity with which it was translated and adopted among
English Moralities shows that its principle was welcomed as an artistic advance. An almost
imperceptible step led straight from the Everyman type of Morality to the Interludes.

Before tracing further changes, however, it might be well to have before us a more definite
notion of the contents of The Castell of Perseverance and Everyman than could be gathered from
these general remarks. For a summary of the former we shall be glad to borrow the outline given
by Ten Brink in his History of English Literature.[34]

'Humanum Genus appears as a new-born child, as a youth, as a man, and as a graybeard. As soon
as the child appears upon the stage we see the Angel of Good and the Angel of Evil coming and
speaking to him. He follows the Evil Angel and is led to Mundus (the World), who gives him
Joy and Folly, and very soon also Slander, for his companions. By the latter--or, to stick
to the literal expression of the poet, by this latter female personage--Humanum Genus is introduced
to Greed, who soon presents to him the other Deadly Sins. We see the hero, when a young man,
choosing Lust as his bed-fellow; and, in spite of the endeavours of his Good Angel, he continues
in his sinful career until at length Repentance leads him to Confession. At forty years of
age we see him in the Castle of Constancy [or Perseverance], whither he has been brought by
Confession, surrounded by the seven most excellent Virtues.... The castle is surrounded by
the three Evil Powers and the Seven Deadly Sins, with the Devil at their head, and with foot
and horse is closely besieged. Humanum Genus commends himself to his general, who died on the
cross; but the Virtues valiantly defend the Castle; and Love and Patience and their sisters
cast roses down on the besiegers, who are thereby beaten black and blue, and forced to retire.
But Humanum Genus in the meantime has become an old man, and now yields to the seductions of
Greed, who has succeeded in creeping up to the castle walls. The old man quits the Castle and
follows the seducer. His end is nigh at hand. The rising generation, represented by a Boy,
demands of him his heaped-up treasures. And now Death and Soul appear upon the scene. Soul
calls on Mercy for assistance; but the Evil Angel takes Humanum Genus on its back and departs
with him along the road to Hell. In this critical position of affairs the well-known argument
begins, where Mercy and Peace plead before God on the one side, and Justice and Truth on the
other. God decides in favour of Mercy; Peace takes the soul of Humanum Genus from the Evil
Angel, and Mercy carries it to God, who then pronounces the judgment--and afterwards the epilogue
of the play.'

The plot of Everyman is as follows.

Everyman, in the midst of life's affairs, is suddenly summoned by Death. Astonished, alarmed,
he protests that he is not ready, and offers a thousand pounds for another twelve years in
which to fill up his 'Account'. But no delay is possible. At once he must start on his journey.
Can he among his friends find one willing to bear him company? He tries. But Fellowship and
Kindred and Cousin, willing enough for other services, decline to undertake this one. Goods
(or Wealth) confesses that, as a matter of fact, his presence would only make things worse
for Everyman, for love of riches is a sin. Finally Everyman seeks out poor forgotten Good-Deeds,
only to find her bound fast by his sins. In this strait he turns to Knowledge, and under her
guidance visits Confession, who prescribes a penance of self-chastisement. The administration
of this has so liberating an effect on Good-Deeds that she is able to rise and join Everyman
and Knowledge. To them are summoned Discretion, Strength, Beauty and Five-Wits--friends of
Everyman--and all journey together until, as they draw near the end, the last four depart.
At the grave Knowledge stays outside, but Good-Deeds enters with Everyman, whose welcome to
Heaven is announced directly afterwards by an angel. The epilogue, spoken by a Doctor, supplies
a pious interpretation of the play.

Such are the stories of the two best known Moralities. From them we can judge how great a change
had come over the drama. Nowhere is there any incident approaching the nature of 'The Sacrifice
of Isaac', nowhere is there any character worthy to stand beside the Mary of the Miracle Play.
Those are the losses. On the other hand, we perceive a new compactness--still loose, but much
in advance of what existed before--whereby the central figure is always before us, urged along
from one act and one set of surroundings to another, towards a goal which is never lost sight
of. Also there is the invention which provides for these two plays different plots, as well
as some diversity of characters. The superiority of the shorter play--Everyman contains just
over nine hundred lines--to the older one is less readily detected in a comparison of bare
plots, though it becomes obvious as soon as one reads the plays. It lies in a more detailed
characterization, in a deliberate attempt to humanize the abstractions, in the substitution
of something like real conversation for the orderly succession of debating society speeches.
The following extracts will illustrate this difference.

     (1) From The Castell of Perseverance.

     [GOOD ANGEL and BAD ANGEL, in rivalry, are trying to secure the
     adherence of the juvenile HUMANKIND: GOOD ANGEL has already
     spoken.]

    Bad Angel. Pes aungel, thi wordes are not wyse,
        Thou counselyst hym not a-ryth[35].
          He schal hym drawyn to the werdes[36] servyse,
        To dwelle with caysere, kynge and knyth,
                That in londe be hym non lyche.
        Cum on with me, stylle as ston:
        Thou and I to the werd schul goon,
        And thanne thou schalt sen a-non
                Whow sone thou schalt be ryche.

    Good Angel. A! pes aungel, thou spekyst folye!
        Why schuld he coveyt werldes goode,
          Syn Criste in erthe and hys meynye[37]
        All in povert here thei stode?
          Werldes wele[38], be strete and stye,
        Faylyth and fadyth as fysch in flode,
          But hevene ryche is good and trye,
        Ther Criste syttyth, bryth as blode,
                Withoutyn any dystresse.
        To the world wolde he not flyt,
        But forsok it every whytt;
        Example I fynde in holy wryt,
                He wyl bere me wytnesse.

     [BAD ANGEL replies, and then HUMANKIND speaks.]

    Humankind. Whom to folwe wetyn[39] I ne may,
        I stonde in stodye and gynne to rave:
          I wolde be ryche in gret aray,
        And fayn I wolde my sowle save.
                As wynde in watyr I wave.
        Thou woldyst to the werld I me toke,
        And he wolde that I it forsoke,
        Now so God me helpe, and the holy boke,
                I not[40] wyche I may have.

     (2) From Everyman.

     [EVERYMAN has just met FELLOWSHIP.]

    Felawshyp. My true frende, shewe to me your mynde,
        I wyll not forsake the to thy lyves ende,
        In the way of good company.

    Everyman. That was well spoken and lovyngly.

    Felawshyp. Syr, I must nedes knowe your hevynesse.
        I have pyte to se you in ony dystresse.
        If ony have you wronged ye shall revenged be,
        Though I on the grounde be slayne for the,
        Though that I knowe before that I sholde dye.

    Everyman. Veryly, Felawshyp, gramercy.

    Felawshyp. Tusshe, by thy thankes I set not a strawe,
        Shewe me your grefe and saye no more.

    Everyman. If I my herte sholde to you breke,
          And than you to tourne your mynde fro me,
        And wolde not me comforte whan ye here me speke,
          Then sholde I ten tymes soryer be.

    Felawshyp. Syr, I saye as I wyll do in dede.

    Everyman. Than be you a good frende at nede,
        I have founde you true herebefore.

    Felawshyp. And so ye shall evermore,
        For, in fayth, and thou go to hell
          I wyll not forsake the by the waye.

     [EVERYMAN now explains his need for a companion along the road to
     the next world.]

    Felawshyp. That is mater in dede! Promyse is duty,
        But and I sholde take suche vyage on me,
        I knowe it well, it sholde be to my payne;
        Also it make me aferde, certayne.
        But let us take counsell here as well as we can,
        For your wordes wolde fere a stronge man.

    Everyman. Why, ye sayd, yf I had nede,
        Ye wolde me never forsake, quycke ne deed,
        Though it were to hell, truely.

    Felawshyp. So I sayd certaynely,
        But suche pleasures be set a syde, the sothe to saye;
        And also, yf we toke suche a journaye,
        Whan sholde we come agayne?

    Everyman. Naye, never agayne, tyll the daye of dome.

    Felawshyp. In fayth, than wyll not I come there.
        Who hath you these tydynges brought?

    Everyman. In dede, deth was with me here.

    Felawshyp. Now, by God that all hathe bought,
        If deth were the messenger,
        For no man that is lyvynge to daye
        I wyll not go that lothe journaye,
        Not for the fader that bygate me.

    Everyman. Ye promysed other wyse, parde.

    Felawshyp. I wote well I say so, truely,
        And yet yf thou wylte ete and drynke and make good chere,
        Or haunt to women, the lusty company,
        I wolde not forsake you whyle the day is clere,
        Trust me veryly.

    Everyman. Ye, therto ye wolde be redy:
          To go to myrthe, solas[41] and playe
        Your mynde wyll soner apply
          Than to bere me company in my longe journaye.

The difference between the plays is clearer now. Somewhere we have met such a fellow as Fellowship;
at some time we have taken part in such a conversation, and heard the gushing acquaintance
of prosperous days excuse himself in the hour of trouble. But never in daily life was met so
dull a creature as one of those angels, nor ever was heard conversation like theirs.

Let us return to trace the change to the Interlude. Quite a short step will carry us to it.

We have said that Moralities gave to the drama originality in plot and in characters. This
statement invites qualification, for its truth is confined to rather narrow limits, in fact,
to the early days of this new kind of play. Let a few Moralities be produced and the rest will
be found to be treading very closely in their footsteps. For there are not possible many divergent
variations of a story that must have for its central figure Man in his three ages and must
express itself allegorically. Nor is the list of Virtues and Vices so large that it can provide
an inexhaustible supply of fresh characters. However ingenious authors may be, the day is quickly
reached when parallelism drives their audience to a wearisome consciousness that the speeches
have all been heard before, that the next step in the plot can be foretold to a nicety. Something
of this was perceived by the author of Everyman. With bold strokes of the pen he drew a line
through two-thirds of the orthodox plot, crossed off from the list of characters the hackneyed
Good and Bad Angels, and, against the old names that must still remain, seems to have jotted
for himself this reminder, 'Try human types.' So, at least, we may imagine him doing. The figures
that occupy the stage of the old Morality are for the most part, like the two Angels, mere
mouthpieces for pious or wicked counsels. Fellowship and his companions, on the other hand,
are selected examples from well-known and clearly-defined classes of mankind. They are not
more than that. All we know of Fellowship is his ready faculty for excusing himself when help
is needed. He has no traits to distinguish him from others of his kind. If we describe to one
another the men or women whom he recalls to our memory we find that the descriptions differ
widely in all but the one common characteristic. In other words, he is a type. The step which
brings us to the Interludes is the conversion of the type into an individual with special marks
about him peculiar to himself. It is an ingenious suggestion, that the idea first found expression
in an attempt to excite interest by adding to a character one or two of the peculiarities of
a local celebrity (miser, prodigal, or beggar) known for the quality typified. If this was
so, it was an interesting reversion to the methods of Aristophanes. But it is only a guess.
What is certain is that in the Interludes we find the 'type' gradually assuming a greater complexity,
a larger measure of those minor features which make the ordinary man interesting. Significantly
enough, the last thing to be acquired was a name such as ordinary men bear. A few characters
attained to that certificate of individuality, but even Heywood, the master of the Interlude,
preferred class names, such as Palmer, Pardoner, or Pedlar. This should warn us not to expect
too much from the change. To the very end some features of the earliest Moralities are discernible:
we shall meet Good Angel and Bad Angel in one of Marlowe's plays. After all, the interval of
time is not so very great. The Castell of Perseverance was written probably about the middle
of the fifteenth century; Everyman may be assigned to the close of that century or the beginning
of the next; one of the earliest surviving Interludes, Hick Scorner, has been dated 'about
1520-25'; and Marlowe's Doctor Faustus belongs probably to the year 1588.

Let us turn to Hick Scorner and see the new principle of characterization at work. How much
of the old is blended with it may be seen in the opening speech, which is delivered by as colourless
an abstraction as ever advocated a virtuous life in the Moralities. A good old man, Pity, sits
alone, describing himself to his hearers. To him comes Contemplation, and shortly afterwards
Perseverance, both younger men but just as undeniably 'Virtues'. Each explains his nature to
the audience before discovering the presence of Pity, but they quickly fall into a highly edifying
conversation. Fortunately for us Contemplation and Perseverance have other engagements, which
draw them away. Pity relapses into a corner and silence. Thereupon two men of a very different
type take the boards. The first comer is Freewill, a careless, graceless youth by his own account;
Imagination, who follows, is worse, being one of those hardened, ready-witted, quick-tempered
rogues whom providence saves from drowning for another fate. He is sore, this second fellow,
with sitting in the stocks; yet quite unrepentant, boasting, rather, of his skill in avoiding
heavier penalties. That others come to the gallows is owing to their bad management. As he says,

    For, and they could have carried by craft as I can,
    In process of years each of them should be a gentleman.
    Yet as for me I was never thief;
                        [i.e. was never proved one.]
    If my hands were smitten off, I can steal with my teeth;
    For ye know well, there is craft in daubing[42]:
    I can look in a man's face and pick his purse,
    And tell new tidings that was never true, i-wis,
    For my hood is all lined with lesing[43].

Nevertheless once he was very nearly caught. And he narrates the incident with so much circumstantial
detail that it would be a pity not to have his own words.

    Imagination. Yes, once I stall a horse in the field,
        And leapt on him for to have ridden my way.
        At the last a baily me met and beheld,
        And bad me stand: then was I in a fray[44].
        He asked whither with that horse I would gone;
        And then I told him it was mine own.
        He said I had stolen him; and I said nay.
        This is, said he, my brother's hackney.
        For, and I had not excused me, without fail,
        By our lady, he would have lad me straight to jail.
        And then I told him the horse was like mine,
        A brown bay, a long mane, and did halt behine;
        Thus I told him, that such another horse I did lack;
        And yet I never saw him, nor came on his back.
        So I delivered him the horse again.
        And when he was gone, then was I fain[45]:
        For and I had not excused me the better,
        I know well I should have danced in a fetter.

    Freewill. And said he no more to thee but so?

    Imagination. Yea, he pretended me much harm to do;
        But I told him that morning was a great mist,
        That what horse it was I ne wist:
        Also I said, that in my head I had the megrin,
        That made me dazzle so in mine eyen,
        That I might not well see.
        And thus he departed shortly from me.

By this time a third party has approached; for an impatient inquiry for Hick Scorner immediately
brings that redoubtable gentleman upon the stage, possibly slightly the worse for liquor, seeing
that his first words are those of one on a ship at sea. They may, however, indicate merely
a seafaring man, for he has been a great traveller in his time, 'in France, Ireland, and in
Spain, Portingal, Sevile, also in Almaine,' and many places more, even as far as 'the land
of Rumbelow, three mile out of hell'. He is acquainted with the names of many vessels, of which
'the Anne of Fowey, the Star of Saltash, with the Jesus of Plymouth' are but a few. With something
of a chuckle he adds that a fleet of these ships bound for Ireland with a crowded company of
all the godly persons of England--'piteous people, that be of sin destroyers', 'mourners for
sin, with lamentation', and 'good rich men that helpeth folk out of prison'--has been wrecked
on a quicksand and the whole company drowned. Next he has an ill-sounding report of his own
last voyage to give. When that is finished Imagination proposes an adjournment for pleasures
more active than conversation, where purses may be had for the asking.

    Every man bear his dagger naked in his hand,
    And if we meet a true man, make him stand,
    Or else that he bear a stripe;
    If that he struggle, and make any work,
    Lightly strike him to the heart,
    And throw him into Thames quite.

This suggestion meets with the approval of Freewill, who, however, takes the opportunity to
ask after Imagination's father in such unmannerly terms as at once to rouse his friend's quick
temper. In a moment a quarrel is assured, nor does Hick Scorner's attempted mediation produce
any other reward than a shrewd blow on the head. At this precise instant, however, old Pity,
who has remained unnoticed, and who is unwarned by the fate of Hick Scorner, pushes forward
with an idea of intervention. As might have been foreseen, the three rascals promptly unite
in rounding upon him. They insult him, they threaten him, they raise malicious lying charges
against him, and finally they clap him in irons and leave him--Imagination being the ringleader
throughout. Left alone once more Pity sings a lament over the wickedness of the times, whereof
the doleful refrain is 'Worse was it never'. A ray of light in his affliction comes with the
return of Contemplation and Perseverance, who, releasing him, send him off to fetch his persecutors
back. Fortune is on their side, for scarcely has Pity gone when Freewill enters by himself
with a wonderful account of his latest roguery--the robbing of a till--for the ears of his
audience. Contemplation and Perseverance, stout enough of limb when they have a mind to use
force, listen quietly to the end and then calmly inform him that he is their prisoner, a fact
which no amount of blustering defiance can alter. Nevertheless, though he has thus openly confessed
his own guilt, they have no wish to proceed to extremes. If only he will give up his wicked
life they will be content, made happy by the knowledge of his salvation. It is a strange sort
of conversion, Freewill's tongue running constantly, with an obvious relish, on the various
punishments he has endured; but at length he capitulates, accepting Perseverance as his future
guide, and donning the uniform of virtuous service.

    Huff, huff, huff! who sent after me?
    I am Imagination, full of jollity.
    Lord, that my heart is light!
    When shall I perish? I trow, never.

In such a manner does the bolder sinner leap to the front. He scans the little group in search
of his friend and stares wonderingly on perceiving him in his new dress. Now begins a second
tussle for the winning of a soul. The fashion of it can be inferred from the following fragment.

    Perseverance. Imagination, think what God did for thee;
        On Good Friday He hanged on a tree,
        And spent all His precious blood;
        A spear did rive His heart asunder,
        The gates He brake up with a clap of thunder,
        And Adam and Eve there delivered He.

    Imagination. What devil! what is that to me?
        By God's fast, I was ten year in Newgate,
        And many more fellows with me sat,
        Yet he never came there to help me ne my company.

    Contemplation. Yes, he holp thee, or thou haddest not been here now.

    Imagination. By the mass, I cannot show you,
        For he and I never drank together,
        Yet I know many an ale stake[46].

In the end, mainly through the personal appeal of his friend, Imagination too yields and accepts
the guidance of Perseverance, Freewill transferring his allegiance to Contemplation. As Hick
Scorner never returns, the double conversion brings the play to a close.

Rising from the perusal of Hick Scorner we confess that we have made a new acquaintance: we
have met Imagination and have not left him until we have learnt a good deal about him; how
he fled from a catchpole but lost his purse in the flight, how he and Hick Scorner were shackled
together in Newgate without money to pay for an upper room, how brazen-faced his lies were,
how near he was to hanging, how ingenious were his excuses, and many other facts besides. We
have seen him, too, as the ringleader in mischief and the arrantest rogue in the play. Freewill
and Hick Scorner make less impression on us; they are more cloudy in outline, more like types.
As for Pity, Contemplation and Perseverance, they are merely talking-machines. We must keep
an eye on Imagination, as possessing a dramatic value likely to be needed again.

We shall have been disappointed in the plot. That part of the drama seems to be getting worse.
Humankind was at least gaining fresh experience in The Castell of Perseverance; he was even
besieged in a fortress and had the narrowest escape in the world from being carried off to
Hell. Everyman's startling doom, his eager quest for a companion on his journey, and his zealous
self-discipline keep us to the end in a state of concern for his ultimate fate. But what interest
have we in Contemplation, Freewill and the rest, apart from what they say? No suggestion is
thrown out at the beginning that two of the rogues are to be reclaimed: their fate concerns
us not at all. The quarrel, and the ill-treatment of poor old Pity, are the merest by-play,
with no importance whatsoever as a step in the evolution of a plot. Indeed it is open to question
whether there is a plot. There are speeches, there is conversation, there is some scuffling,
and there is a happy ending, but there is no guiding thread running through the story, no discernible
objective steadily aimed at from the start. It looks as though the new interest in drawing
(or seeing) a real human individual has monopolized the whole attention; that for the time
being characterization has driven plot-building completely into the shade.

A curious, yet not unnatural, thing has happened. In The Castell of Perseverance Humankind
was more acted upon than acting. The real force of the action lay in the antagonism between
the Virtues and Vices, the Good Angel and the Bad Angel, an antagonism so inveterate that even
if the temporary object of their struggle were removed, the strife would still break out again
from the sheer viciousness of the Vices. This instinctive hostility between Virtues and Vices
supplies the groundwork of the Interludes. They dismiss Humankind from the stage. He was always
a weak, oscillating sort of creature. Sound, forceful Abstractions and Types were wanted, which
could be worked up into thoroughgoing rascals or heroes, rascality having all the preference.
Any underlying thread, therefore, that there may be in Hick Scorner is this rivalry and embitterment
between the wicked sort and the virtuous. We shall observe that already one of the rogues is
taking precedence of the others in dramatic importance, in fullness of portraiture, and, of
course, in villany.

Like Will to Like--of an uncertain date prior to 1568 (when it was printed) but almost certainly
a later production than many Interludes which we omit here, notably Heywood's--illustrates
the development of some of these changes. In brief outline its story is as follows.

Nichol Newfangle receives a commission from Lucifer to go through the world bringing similar
persons together, like to like. Accordingly he acts as arbiter between Ralph Roister and Tom
Tosspot in a dispute as to which of the two is the greater knave, and, deciding that both are
equal, promises them equal shares in certain property he has at disposal. Next, meeting Cuthbert
Cutpurse and Pierce Pickpurse, he gives them news of a piece of land which has fallen to them
by unexpected succession. He then adjourns with his friends to an alehouse, leaving the stage
to Virtuous Living, who has already chidden him for his sins who now, after a long monologue
or chant, is rewarded by Good Fame and Honour, the servants of God's Promise. On the departure
of these Virtues, Newfangle returns, shortly followed by Ralph and Tom, penniless from a game
of dice, and more than ever anxious for the property. This last proves to be no more than a
beggar's bag, bottle and staff, suitable to their present condition, but so little satisfying,
that Newfangle receives a terrible drubbing for his trick. Judge Severity arrives on the scene
conveniently to lecture him severely and witness his second knavish device, which is no other
than to hand over to the Judge the two fugitives from justice, Cutpurse and Pickpurse, for
the piece of land of which he spoke is the gallows. Hankin Hangman takes possession of his
victims, and the Devil, entering with a 'Ho, ho, ho!', carries Newfangle away with him on his
back. Virtuous Life, Honour and Good Fame bring the play to a proper conclusion with prayers
for the Queen, Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, this customary exhibition of loyalty
being rounded off with a hymn.

This play, though so much later in date than Hick Scorner, shows no improvement in plot. Nor,
perhaps, ought we to expect that it should. An Interlude, as its name implies, was originally
only a kind of stop-gap, an entrée of light entertainment between other events; and what so
welcome for this purpose as the inconsequential dialogue, by-play, and mutual trickery of sundry
'lewd fellows of the baser sort'? When it extended its sphere from the castle banqueting-hall
to the street or inn-yard no greater excellence was expected from it. Its brevity saved it
from tediousness, and the Virtues, whom the lingering influence of religion upon the drama
saved from the wreck of the Morality Plays, were given a more and more subordinate place. In
this play they serve to point the moral by showing the reward that comes to righteousness in
sharp contrast to the poverty and vile death that are the meed of wickedness. But it is noticeable
that they are quite apart from the other group, much more so than was the case in Hick Scorner.

Instead of a plot we find an increasing admixture of buffoonery, without which no Interlude
could be regarded as complete. Herein we see the influence of certain farcical entertainments
brought over by the Norman jongleurs (or travelling minstrel-comedians). Just as the French
fabliaux inspired Chaucer's coarser tales, so the French farce stimulated the natural inclination
of the English taste to broad humour and rough-and-tumble buffoonery on the stage. Held in
some restraint by the dominant religious element, it grew stronger as the latter weakened.
Thus, in Like Will to Like a certain Hance enters half-intoxicated, roaring out a drinking
song until the sudden collapse of his voice compels him to recite the rest in the thick stutter
of a drunken man. He carries a pot of ale in his hand, from which he drinks to the health of
Tom Tosspot, giving the toast with a 'Ca-ca-carouse to-to-to thee, go-go-good Tom'--which is
but an indifferent hexameter. At the suggestion of Newfangle 'he danceth as evil-favoured as
may be demised, and in the dancing he falleth down, and when he riseth he must groan', according
to the stage-direction. When he does rise, doubtless with unlimited comicality of effort, he
staggers into a chair and proceeds to snore loudly. All this is accompanied by a fitting fashion
of conversation. We can only hope that the author's attempts at humour met with the applause
he clearly expected. We believe they did, for he was only copying a widespread custom.

Of far more importance than Hance, however, are the two characters, the Devil and Nichol Newfangle.
They invite joint treatment by their own declared relationship and by the close union which
stage tradition quickly gave to them. Most of us will remember Shakespeare's song from Twelfth
Night bearing on these two notorious companions, their quaint garb, and their laughter-raising
antics.

Newfangle is the 'Vice' of the play; 'Nichol Newfangle, the Vice,' says the list of dramatis
personae. We noticed in our consideration of Hick Scorner that one of the Vices, Imagination,
was eminent for his more detailed character and readier villany. The trick has been adopted;
the favourite has grown fast. He has become the Vice. Compared with him the rest of the Vices
appear foolish fellows whom it is his delight to plague and lead astray. So supreme is he in
wickedness that he has even been given the Devil himself as his godfather, uncle, playmate.
It is his duty to keep alive the natural wickedness in man, to set snares and evil mischances
before the feet of simpler folk, to teach youth to be idle and young men to be quarrelsome,
to lure rogues to their ruin; but, above all, to import wit into prosy dialogues, merriment
into dull situations. Such is 'the Vice'. Hear him speak for himself:

    What is he calls upon me, and would seem to lack a Vice?
    Ere his words be half spoken, I am with him in a trice
    Here, there, and everywhere, as the cat is with the mice:
    True Vetus Iniquitas. Lack'st thou cards, friend, or dice?
    I will teach thee to cheat, child, to cog, lie, and swagger,
    And ever and anon to be drawing forth thy dagger.

                        (Ben Jonson's The Devil is an Ass.)

Then what a universal favourite, too, is the Devil, our old friend from the Miracles! But our
present purpose is with Nichol Newfangle and his arch-prompter. Nevertheless these few general
remarks will save us from the necessity of returning to the subject later. The truth of the
matter is that here, in Like Will to Like, we have as full a delineation of these two popular
characters as may be found in any of the Interludes. Our attention will not be misplaced if
we pry a little closer into the method of presentation.

The Vice must be merry; that above all. Accordingly the stage-direction at the opening of the
play reads thus, 'Here entereth Nichol Newfangle the Vice, laughing, and hath a knave of clubs
in his hand which, as soon as he speaketh, he offereth unto one of the men or boys standing
by.' He is apparently on familiar terms already with the 'gallery' (or, in the term of that
day, 'groundlings'); as intimate as the modern clown with his stage-asides for the exclusive
benefit of 'the gods'. When we read the first two lines we perceive the wit of the card trick:

    Ha, ha, ha, ha! now like unto like; it will be none other:
    Stoop, gentle knave, and take up your brother.

We can almost hear the shout of laughter at the expense of the fellow who unwittingly took
the card. The audience is with Newfangle at once. He has scored his first point and given a
capital send-off to the play by this comically-conceived illustration of the meaning of its
strange title. Forthwith he rattles along with a string of patter about himself, who he is,
what sciences he learnt in hell before he was born, and so on, until arrested by the abrupt
entrance of another person. This newcomer somersaults on to the stage and cuts divers uncouth
capers exactly as our 'second clown' does at the pantomime. Newfangle stares, grimaces, and,
turning again to the audience, continues:

    Sancte benedicite, whom have we here
    Tom Tumbler, or else some dancing bear?
    Body of me, it were best go no near:
    For ought that I see, it is my godfather Lucifer,
    Whose prentice I have been this many a day:
    But no more words but mum: you shall hear what he will say.

By the time he has finished speaking the other has unrolled himself and presents a queer figure,
clothed in a bearskin and bearing in large print on his chest and back the name Lucifer. He
too commences with a laugh or a shout, 'Ho!'. That is the hall-mark of the Devil and the Vice,
the herald's blare of trumpets, so to speak, before the speech of His High Mightiness. We have
not forgotten that other cry:

    Huff, huff, huff! who sent after me?
    I am Imagination, full of jollity.

It is the same trick; the older rascal is, bone, flesh, and blood, the very kin of Newfangle;
both have the same godfather. So the dialogue opens between Old Nick and Nichol in the approved
fashion:

    Lucifer. Ho! mine own boy, I am glad that thou art here!

    Newfangle (pointing to one standing by). He speaketh to you,
        sir, I pray you come near.

    Lucifer. Nay, thou art even he, of whom I am well apaid.

    Newfangle. Then speak aloof, for to come nigh I am afraid.

We need not trouble ourselves here with their further conversation, nor yet with Tom Collier
of Croydon, who joins them in a jig and a song. He soon goes off again, followed by Lucifer,
so we can turn over the pages, guided by our outline, until we are near the end.

              [The DEVIL entereth.]

    Lucifer. Ho, ho, ho! mine own boy, make no more delay,
        But leap up on my back straightway.

    Newfangle. Then who shall hold my stirrup, while I go to horse?

    Lucifer. Tush, for that do thou not force!
        Leap up, I say, leap up quickly.

    Newfangle. Woh, Ball, woh! and I will come by and by.
        Now for a pair of spurs I would give a good groat,
        To try whether this jade do amble or trot.
        Farewell, my masters, till I come again,
        For now I must make a journey into Spain.

              [He rideth away on the DEVIL'S back.]

The reader must use his imagination, stimulated by recollections of the Christmas pantomime,
if this episode is to have its full meaning. Brief in words, it may quite easily have occupied
five minutes and more in acting.

As related more or less distantly to the noisy element, the many songs in this Interlude call
for notice. The practice of introducing lyrics was in vogue long before the playwrights of
Shakespeare's time displayed their use so perfectly. From this point onwards the drama rings
with the rough drinking songs, pious hymns, and sweet lyrics of the buffoon, the preacher,
and the lover. Thus, turning haphazard to The Trial of Treasure, the Interlude immediately
preceding Like Will to Like in the volume of Dodsley's Old English Plays, we find no less than
eight songs. Like Will to Like has also eight. New Custom, the other Interlude in the same
volume, has only two; but it may be added that, as the author of New Custom was writing with
a very special and sober purpose in view, he may have felt that much singing would be inappropriate.
That these lyrics went with a good swing may be judged from two of those in Like Will to Like.

    (1)   Tom Collier of Croydon hath sold his coals,
            And made his market to-day;
          And now he danceth with the Devil,
            For like will to like alway.

          Wherefore let us rejoice and sing,
            Let us be merry and glad;
          Sith that the Collier and the Devil
            This match and dance hath made.

          Now of this dance we make an end
            With mirth and eke with joy:
          The Collier and the Devil will be
            Much like to like alway.

    (2)   Troll the bowl and drink to me, and troll the bowl again,
          And put a brown toast in [the] pot for Philip Fleming's brain.
          And I shall toss it to and fro, even round about the house-a:
          Good hostess, now let it be so, I brink them all carouse-a.

More than once reference has been made to the lingering religious element in the Interludes.
Probably 'moral element' would describe it better, though in those days religion and morality
were perhaps less separable than they are to-day. In the midst of so much comical wickedness
and naughty wit, with a decreasing use of the old Morality Virtues, it might be thought that
this element would be crowded out. But it was not so. The downfall of the unrighteous was never
allowed to pass without the voice of the preacher, frequently the reprobate himself, pointing
the warning to those present. Cuthbert Cutpurse makes a 'godly end' in this fashion:

    O, all youth take example by me:
    Flee from evil company, as from a serpent you would flee;
    For I to you all a mirror may be.
    I have been daintily and delicately bred,
    But nothing at all in virtuous lore:
    And now I am but a man dead;
    Hanged I must be, which grieveth me full sore.
    Note well the end of me therefore;
    And you that fathers and mothers be,
    Bring not up your children in too much liberty.

The episode of the crowning of Virtuous Life owes its existence to this same element of moral
teaching. Take up what Interlude we will, the preacher is always to be found uttering his short
sermon on the folly of sin. Our merry friend, the Vice, usually gets caught in his own toils
at last; even if he is spared this defeat, he must ultimately be borne off by the Devil.

But there are lessons to be learnt other than the elementary one that virtue is a wiser guide
than vice: many an Interlude was written to castigate a particular form of laxity or drive
home a needed reform, in those years when the Stage was the Cinderella of the Church; one at
least, The Four Elements, was written to disseminate schoolroom learning in an attractive manner.
Nice Wanton (about 1560) traces the downward career of two spoilt children, paints the remorse
of their mother, and sums up its message at the end thus:

    Therefore exhort I all parents to be diligent
    In bringing up their children; aye, to be circumspect.
    Lest they fall to evil, be not negligent
    But chastise them before they be sore infect.

The Disobedient Child (printed 1560), of which the title is a sufficient clue to its purpose,
permits a boy to refuse to go to school, and, as a young man, to flout his father's advice
in regard to matrimony, only to bring him to the bottom rung of miserable drudgery and servitude
under a scolding wife. Of some interest is the lad's report of a schoolboy's life, voicing,
as it possibly does, a needed criticism of the excessive severity of sixteenth-century pedagogues.
Speaking of the boys he says:

    For as the bruit goeth by many a one,
    Their tender bodies both night and day
    Are whipped and scourged and beat like a stone,
    That from top to toe the skin is away.

A slightly fuller outline of The Marriage of Wit and Science (1570 approx.) will show how pleasantly,
yet pointedly, the younger generation of that day was taught the necessity of sustained industry
if scholarship was to be acquired. It has been suggested, with good reason, that the play was
written by a schoolmaster for his pupils' performance. The superior plot-structure, and the
rare adoption of subdivision into acts and scenes, indicate an author of some classical knowledge.

Wit, a promising youth, son of Nature, decides to marry Science, the daughter of Reason and
Experience. Nature approves of his intention, but warns him that 'travail and time' are the
only two by whose help he can win the maid. For his servant and companion, however, she gives
him Will, a lively boy, full of sprightly fire. Science is now approached. But it appears that
only he who shall slay the giant, Tediousness, may be her husband. To this trial Wit volunteers.
He is advised first to undergo long years of training under Instruction, Study, and Diligence;
but, soon tiring of them, he rashly goes to the fight, trusting that his own strength, backed
by the courage of Will and the half-hearted support of Diligence, will prove sufficient. Too
self-confident, he is overthrown and his companions are put to flight. Will soon returns with
Recreation, by whose skill Wit is restored to vigour and better resolution. Nevertheless, directly
afterwards, he accepts the gentle ministrations of the false jade, Idleness, who sings him
to sleep and then transforms him into the appearance of Ignorance. In this plight he is found
by his lady-love and her parents, who do not at first recognize him. Shame is called in to
doctor him. On his recovery he returns very repentantly to the tuition of his three teachers,
until, by their help and Will's, he is able to slay the giant. As his reward he marries Science.

As one of several good things in this pleasant Interlude may be quoted Will's speech on life
before and after marriage, from the point of view of a favoured servant:

    I am not disposed as yet to be tame,
    And therefore I am loth to be under a dame.
    Now you are a bachelor, a man may soon win you,
    Methinks there is some good fellowship in you;
    We may laugh and be merry at board and at bed,
    You are not so testy as those that be wed.
    Mild in behaviour and loth to fall out,
    You may run, you may ride and rove round about,
    With wealth at your will and all thing at ease,
    Free, frank and lusty, easy to please.
    But when you be clogged and tied by the toe
    So fast that you shall not have pow'r to let go,
    You will tell me another lesson soon after,
    And cry peccavi too, except your luck be the better.
    Then farewell good fellowship! then come at a call!
    Then wait at an inch, you idle knaves all!
    Then sparing and pinching, and nothing of gift,
    No talk with our master, but all for his thrift.
    Solemn and sour, and angry as a wasp,
    All things must be kept under lock and hasp;
    All that which will make me to fare full ill.
    All your care shall be to hamper poor Will.

The liberty and, we may infer, good hearing extended to these unblushingly didactic Interludes
attracted into authorship writers with purposes more aggressive and debatable than those pertaining
to wise conduct. Zealous reformers, earnest proselytizers, fierce dogmatists turned to the
drama as a medium through which they might effectively reach the ears and hearts of the people.
Kirchmayer's Pammachius, translated into English by Bale (author of King John), contained an
attack on the Pope as Antichrist. In 1527 the boys of St. Paul's acted a play (now unknown)
in which Luther figured ignominiously. Here then were Roman Catholics and Protestants extending
their furious battleground to the stage. This style of thing came to such a pitch that it was
actually judged necessary to forbid it by law. Similar plays, however, still continued to be
produced; and even King Edward VI is credited with the authorship of a strongly Protestant
comedy entitled De Meretrice Babylonica.

A very fair example of these political and controversial Interludes is New Custom, printed
in 1573, and possibly written only a year or two before that date. Here, for instance, are
a few of the players' names and descriptions as given at the beginning: Perverse Doctrine,
an old Popish Priest; Ignorance, another, but elder; New Custom, a Minister; Light of the Gospel,
a Minister; Hypocrisy, an old Woman. Then, as to the matter, here is an extract from Perverse
Doctrine's opening speech, the writer's intention being to expose the speaker to the derision
of his enlightened hearers.

    What! young men to be meddlers in divinity? it is a goodly sight!
    Yet therein now almost is every boy's delight;
    No book now in their hands, but all scripture, scripture,
    Either the whole Bible or the New Testament, you may be sure.
    The New Testament for them! and then too for Coll, my dog.
    This is the old proverb--to cast pearls to an hog.
    Give them that which is meet for them, a racket and a ball,
    Or some other trifle to busy their heads withal,
    Playing at quoits or nine-holes, or shooting at butts:
    There let them be, a God's name.

Or here again is a bold declaration from New Custom, the Reformation minister:

    I said that the mass, and such trumpery as that,
    Popery, purgatory, pardons, were flat
    Against God's word and primitive constitution,
    Crept in through covetousness and superstition
    Of late years, through blindness, and men of no knowledge,
    Even such as have been in every age.

It is with some surprise certainly that we find King John of England glorified, for purposes
of Protestant propaganda, as a sincere and godly 'protestant'. So it is, however. In his play,
King John (about 1548), Bishop Bale depicts that monarch as an inspired hater of papistical
tyranny and an ardent lover of his country, in whose cause he suffered death by poisoning at
the hands of a monk. Stephen Langton, the Pope and Cardinal Pandulph figure as Sedition, Usurped
Power and Private Wealth. A summary of the play, provided by an Interpreter, supplies us with
the following explanation of John's quarrel with Rome.

    This noble King John, as a faithful Moses,
    Withstood proud Pharaoh for his poor Israel,
    Minding to bring it out of the land of darkness;
    But the Egyptians did against him so rebel,
    That his poor people did still in the desert dwell,
    Till that duke Joshua, which was our late King Henry,
    Closely brought us into the land of milk and honey.
    As a strong David, at the voice of verity,
    Great Goliah, the pope, he struck down with his sling,
    Restoring again to a Christian liberty
    His land and people, like a most victorious king;
    To his first beauty intending the Church to bring
    From ceremonies dead to the living word of the Lord.
    This the second act will plenteously record.

As put into the mouth of the king himself, these other lines are hard to beat for deliberate
partisan misrepresentation. The king feels himself about to die.

    I have sore hungered and thirsted righteousness
    For the office sake that God hath me appointed,
    But now I perceive that sin and wickedness
    In this wretched world, like as Christ prophesied,
    Have the overhand: in me it is verified.
    Pray for me, good people, I beseech you heartily,
    That the Lord above on my poor soul have mercy.
    Farewell noblemen, with the clergy spiritual,
    Farewell men of law, with the whole commonalty.
    Your disobedience I do forgive you all,
    And desire God to pardon your iniquity.
    Farewell, sweet England, now last of all to thee:
    I am right sorry I could do for thee no more.
    Farewell once again, yea, farewell for evermore.

Prompted by a different motive, yet not far removed in actual effect from the politico-religious
class of play represented by New Custom, are the early Interludes of John Heywood. It is quite
impossible to read such a play as The Pardoner and the Friar and believe that its author wrote
under any such earnest and sober inspiration as did the author of New Custom. His intention
was frankly to amuse, and to paint life as he saw it without the intrusion of unreal personages
of highly virtuous but dull ideas. Yet he swung the lash of satire as cuttingly and as merrily
about the flanks of ecclesiastical superstition as ever did the creator of Perverse Doctrine.[47]

The simplest plot sufficed Heywood, and the minimum of characters. The Pardoner and the Friar
(possibly as early as 1520) demands only four persons, while the plot may be summed up in a
few sentences, thus: A Pardoner and a Friar, from closely adjoining platforms, are endeavouring
to address the same crowd, the one to sell relics, the other to beg money for his order. By
a sort of stichomythic alternation each for a time is supposed to carry on his speech regardless
of the other, so that to follow either connectedly the alternate lines must be read in sequence.
But every now and then they break off for abuse, and finally they fight. A Parson and neighbour
Prat interfere to convey them to jail for the disturbance, but are themselves badly mauled.
Then the Pardoner and the Friar go off amicably together. There is no allegory, no moral; merely
satire on the fraudulent and hypocritical practices of pardoners and friars, together with
some horseplay to raise a louder laugh. The fashion of that satire may be judged from the following
exchange of home truths by the rival orators.

    Friar. What, should ye give ought to parting pardoners?--

    Pardoner. What, should ye spend on these flattering liars,--

    Friar. What, should ye give ought to these bold beggars?--

    Pardoner. As be these babbling monks and these friars,--

    Friar. Let them hardly labour for their living;--

    Pardoner. Which do nought daily but babble and lie--

    Friar. It much hurteth them good men's giving,--

    Pardoner. And tell you fables dear enough at a fly,--

    Friar. For that maketh them idle and slothful to wark,--

    Pardoner. As doth this babbling friar here to-day?--

    Friar. That for none other thing they will cark.--

    Pardoner. Drive him hence, therefore, in the twenty-devil way!--

The Four P.P. (? 1540), similarly, requires no more than a palmer, a pardoner, a 'pothecary
and a pedlar, and for plot only a single conversation, devoid even of the rough play which
usually enlivened discussions on the stage. In the debate arises a contest as to who can tell
the biggest lie--won by the palmer's statement that he has never seen a woman out of patience--and
that is the sole dramatic element. Nevertheless, by sheer wit interest is maintained to the
end, every one smiling over the rival claims of such veteran humbugs as the old-time pardoner
and apothecary; scant reverence does 'Pothecary vouchsafe to Pardoner's potent relics, his
'of All Hallows the blessed jaw-bone', his 'great toe of the Trinity', his 'buttock-bone of
Pentecost', and the rest. One of the raciest passages occurs in the Pardoner's relation of
the wonders he has performed in the execution of his office. Amongst other deeds of note is
the bringing back of a certain woman from hell to earth. For this purpose the Pardoner visited
the lower regions in person--so he says--and brought her out in triumph with the full and joyful
consent of Lucifer.

     [The PARDONER has entered hell and secured a guide.]

    Pardoner. This devil and I walked arm in arm
        So far, till he had brought me thither,
        Where all the devils of hell together
        Stood in array in such apparel
        As for that day there meetly fell.
        Their horns well-gilt, their claws full clean,
        Their tails well-kempt, and, as I ween,
        With sothery[48] butter their bodies anointed;
        I never saw devils so well appointed.
        The master-devil sat in his jacket,
        And all the souls were playing at racket.
        None other rackets they had in hand,
        Save every soul a good firebrand,
        Wherewith they played so prettily
        That Lucifer laughed merrily,
        And all the residue of the fiends
        Did laugh thereat full well like friends.

     [He interviews LUCIFER and asks if he may take away MARGERY
     CORSON.]

        Now, by our honour, said Lucifer,
        No devil in hell shall withhold her;
        And if thou wouldest have twenty mo,
        Wert not for justice, they should go.
        For all we devils within this den
        Have more to-do with two women
        Than with all the charge we have beside;
        Wherefore, if thou our friend will be tried,
        Apply thy pardons to women so
        That unto us there come no mo.

Johan Johan, or, at greater length, The Merry Play between Johan Johan the Husband, Tyb his
Wife, and Sir Jhon the Priest (printed 1533), contains only the three characters mentioned,
but possesses a theme more nearly deserving the name of plot than do the other two, namely,
the contriving and carrying out of a plan by Tyb for exposing her boastful husband's real and
absolute subjection to her rule. Yet, even so, it is extremely simple. Johan Johan is first
heard alone, declaring how he will beat his wife for not being at home. The tuggings of fear
and valour in his heart, however, give his monologue an argumentative form, in which first
one motive and then the other gains the upper hand, very similar to the conflict between Launcelot
Gobbo's conscience and the Devil. He closes in favour of the beating and then--Tyb comes home.
Oh the difference! Johan Johan suspects his wife of undue friendliness with Sir Jhon the Priest,
but he dare not say so. Tyb guesses his doubts, and in her turn suspects that he is inclined
to rebel. So she makes the yoke heavier. Johan Johan has to invite Sir Jhon to eat a most desirable
pie with them; but throughout the meal, with jealousy at his heart and the still greater pangs
of unsatisfied hunger a little lower, he is kept busy by his wife, trying to mend a leaky bucket
with wax. Surely never did a scene contain more 'asides' than are uttered and explained away
by the crushed husband! Finally overtaxed endurance asserts itself, and wife and priest are
driven out of doors; but the play closes with a very pronounced note of uncertainty from the
victor as to what new game the vanquished may shortly be at if he be not there to see.

The all-important feature to be noticed in Heywood's work is that here we have the drama escaping
from its alliance with religion into the region of pure comedy. Here is no well planned moral,
no sententious mouthpiece of abstract excellence, no ruin of sinners and crowning of saints.
Here, too, is no Vice, no Devil, although they are the chief media for comedy in other Interludes,
nor is there any buffoonery; even of its near cousins, scuffling and fighting, only one of
the three plays has more than a trace. Hence the earlier remark, that Heywood was before his
time. It is not devils in bearskins and wooden-sworded vices that create true comedy; they
belong to the realm of farce. Yet they continued to flourish long after Heywood had set another
example, and with them the cuffing of ears and drunken gambolling which we may see, in the
works of other men, trying to rescue prosy scenes from dullness. In Johan Johan is simple comedy,
the comedy of laughter-raising dialogue and 'asides'. We do not say it is perfect comedy, far
from it; but it is comedy cleared of its former alloys. It is the comedy which Shakespeare
refined for his own use in Twelfth Night and elsewhere.

[Footnote 34: Translation by W.C. Robinson, Ph.D. (Bohn's Standard Library).]

[Footnote 35: aright.]

[Footnote 36: world's.]

[Footnote 37: company.]

[Footnote 38: wealth.]

[Footnote 39: know.]

[Footnote 40: know not.]

[Footnote 41: solace.]

[Footnote 42: stealing.]

[Footnote 43: lying.]

[Footnote 44: fright.]

[Footnote 45: glad.]

[Footnote 46: alehouse sign.]

[Footnote 47: The reader is warned against chronological confusion. In order to follow out
the various dramatic contributions of the Interludes one must sometimes pass over plays at
one point to return to them at another. Care has been taken to place approximate dates against
the plays, and these should be duly regarded. The treatment of so early an Interlude writer
as Heywood (his three best known productions may be dated between 1520 and 1540) thus late
is justified by the fact that he is in some ways 'before his time', notably in his rejection
of the Morality abstractions.]

[Footnote 48: sweet.]

CHAPTER IV

RISE OF COMEDY AND TRAGEDY

No great discernment is required to see that, after the appearance of Johan Johan, all that
was needed for the complete development of comedy was the invention of a well-contrived plot.
For reasons already indicated, Interludes were naturally deficient in this respect. Nor were
the Moralities and Bible Miracles much better: their length and comprehensive themes were against
them. There were the Saint Plays, of which some still lingered upon the stage; these offered
greater possibilities. But here, again, originality was limited; the dénouement was more or
less a foregone conclusion. Clearly, one of two things was wanted: either a man of genius to
perceive the need and to supply it, or the study of new models outside the field of English
drama. The man of genius was not then forthcoming, but by good fortune the models were stumbled
upon.

We say stumbled upon, because the absence of tentative predecessors and of anything approaching
an eager band of successors, suggests an unpreparedness for the discovery when it came. Thus
Calisto and Melibaea (1530), an imitation of a Spanish comedy of the same name, though it contained
a definitely evolved plot, sent barely a ripple over the surface of succeeding authorship.
It represents the steadfastness of the maiden Melibaea against the entreaties of her lover
Calisto and the much more crafty, indeed almost successful, wiles of the procuress, Celestine.
True, the play is dull enough. But if dramatists had been awake to their defects, the value
of the new importation from a foreign literature would have been noticed. The years passed,
however, without producing imitators, until some time in the years between 1544 and 1551 a
Latin scholar, reading the plays of Plautus, decided to write a comedy like them. Latin Comedies,
both in the original tongue and in translation, had appeared in England in previous years,
but only as strayed foreigners. Nicholas Udall, the head master of Eton School, proposed a
very different thing, namely, an English comedy which should rival in technique the comedies
of the Latins. The result was Ralph Roister Doister. He called it an Interlude. Posterity has
given it the title of 'the first regular English comedy'.

Divided into five acts, with subordinate scenes, this play develops its story with deliberate
calculated steps. Acts I and II are occupied by Ralph's vain attempts to soften the heart of
Dame Christian Custance by gifts and messages. In Act III come complications, double-dealings.
Matthew Merrygreek plays Ralph false, tortures his love, misreads--by the simple trick of mispunctuation--his
letter to the Dame, and thus, under a mask of friendship, sets him further than ever from success.
Still deeper complexities appear with Act IV, for now arrives, with greetings from Gawin Goodluck,
long betrothed to Dame Custance, a certain sea-captain, who, misled by Ralph's confident assurance,
misunderstands the relations between the Dame and him, suspects disloyalty, and changes from
friendliness to cold aloofness. This, by vexing the lady, brings disaster upon Ralph, whose
bold attempt, on the suggestion of Merrygreek, to carry his love off by force is repulsed by
that Dame's Amazonian band of maid-servants with scuttles and brooms. In this extraordinary
conflict Ralph is horribly belaboured by the malicious Matthew under pretence of blows aimed
at Dame Custance. Act V, however, brings Goodluck himself and explanations. That worthy man
finds his lady true, friendship is established all round, and Ralph and Merrygreek join the
happy couple in a closing feast.

This bald outline perhaps makes sufficiently clear the great advance in plot structure. Within
the play, however, are many other good things. The character of Ralph Roister Doister, 'a vain-glorious,
cowardly blockhead', as the list of dramatis personae has it, is thoroughly well done: his
heavy love-sighs, his confident elation, his distrust, his gullibility, his ups and downs and
contradictions, are all in the best comic vein. Only second in fullness of portraiture, and
truer to Nature, is Dame Custance, who--if we exclude Melibaea as not native to English shores--may
be said to bring into English secular drama honourable womanhood. Her amused indifference at
first, her sharp reproof of her maids who have allowed themselves to act as Ralph's messengers,
her gathering vexation at Ralph's tiresome wooing, her genuine alarm when she sees that his
boastful words are accepted by the sea-captain as truth--these are sentiments and emotions
copied from a healthy and worthy model. Matthew Merrygreek, an unmistakable 'Vice' ever at
Ralph's elbow, is of all Vices the shrewdest striker of laughter out of a block of stupidity:
it is from his ingenious brain that almost every absurd scene is evolved for the ridiculing
of Ralph. Thoroughly human, and quite assertive, are the lower characters, the maid-servants
and men-servants, Madge Mumblecrust, Tibet Talkapace, Truepenny, Dobinet Doughty and the rest.
Need it be added that the battle in Act IV is pure fooling? or that jolly songs enliven the
scenes with their rousing choruses (e.g. 'I mun be married a Sunday')? Ralph Roister Doister
is an English comedy with English notions of the best way of amusing English folk of the sixteenth
century. With all its improvements it has no suggestion of the alien about it, as has the classically-flavoured
Thersites (also based, like Udall's play, on Plautus's Miles Gloriosus), or Calisto and Melibaea
with its un-English names. Perhaps that is why it had to wait fifteen years for a successor.
Quite possibly its spectators regarded it as merely a better Interlude than usual, without
recognizing the precise qualities which made it different from Johan Johan.

Two quotations will be sufficient to illustrate the opposing characters.

     (1)

    Merrygreek (alone). But now of Roister Doister somewhat to express,
        That ye may esteem him after his worthiness,
        In these twenty towns, and seek them throughout,
        Is not the like stock whereon to graff a lout.
        All the day long is he facing and craking[49]
        Of his great acts in fighting and fray-making;
        But when Roister Doister is put to his proof,
        To keep the Queen's peace is more for his behoof.
        If any woman smile, or cast on him an eye,
        Up is he to the hard ears in love by and by:
        And in all the hot haste must she be his wife,
        Else farewell his good days, and farewell his life!

     (2)

     [TRISTRAM TRUSTY, a good friend and counsellor to DAME CUSTANCE,
     is consulted by her on the matter of the sea-captain's
     (SURESBY'S) misunderstanding of her attitude towards RALPH
     ROISTER DOISTER.]

    T. Trusty. Nay, weep not, woman, but tell me what your cause is.
        As concerning my friend is anything amiss?

    C. Custance. No, not on my part; but here was Sim. Suresby--

    T. Trusty. He was with me, and told me so.

    C. Custance. And he stood by
        While Ralph Roister Doister, with help of Merrygreek,
        For promise of marriage did unto me seek.

    T. Trusty. And had ye made any promise before them twain?

    C. Custance. No, I had rather be torn in pieces and slain.
        No man hath my faith and troth but Gawin Goodluck,
        And that before Suresby did I say, and there stuck;
        But of certain letters there were such words spoken--

    T. Trusty. He told me that too.

    C. Custance. And of a ring and token,
        That Suresby, I spied, did more than half suspect
        That I my faith to Gawin Goodluck did reject.

    T. Trusty. But was there no such matter, Dame Custance, indeed?

    C. Custance. If ever my head thought it, God send me ill speed!
        Wherefore I beseech you with me to be a witness
        That in all my life I never intended thing less.
        And what a brainsick fool Ralph Roister Doister is
        Yourself knows well enough.

    T. Trusty. Ye say full true, i-wis.

In 1566 was acted at Christ's College, Cambridge, 'A Ryght Pithy, Pleasaunt, and merie Comedie,
intytuled Gammer Gurton's Needle.' The authorship is uncertain, recent investigation having
exalted a certain Stevenson into rivalry with the Bishop Still to whom former scholars were
content to assign it. Possibly as the result of a perusal of Plautus, possibly under the influence
of the last play--for in subject matter it is even more perfectly English than Ralph Roister
Doister--this comedy is also built on a well-arranged plan, the plot developing regularly through
five acts with subsidiary scenes. Let us glance through it.

Gammer Gurton and her goodman Hodge lose their one and only needle, an article not easily renewed,
nor easily done without, seeing that Hodge's garments stand in need of instant repair. Gib,
the cat, is strongly suspected of having swallowed it. Into this confusion steps Diccon, a
bedlam beggar, whose quick eye promptly detects opportunities for mischief. After scaring Hodge
with offers of magic art, he goes to Dame Chat, an honest but somewhat jealous neighbour, unaware
of what has happened, with a tale that Gammer Gurton accuses her of stealing her best cock.
To Gammer Gurton he announces that he has seen Dame Chat pick up the needle and make off with
it. Between the two dames ensues a meeting, the nature of which may be guessed, the whole trouble
lying in the fact that neither thinks it necessary to name the article under dispute. No wonder
that discussion under the disadvantage of so great a misunderstanding ends in violence. Doctor
Rat, the curate, is now called in; but again Diccon is equal to the occasion. Having warned
Dame Chat that Hodge, to balance the matter of the cock, is about to creep in through a breach
in the wall and kill her chickens, he persuades Doctor Rat that if he will creep through this
same opening he will see the needle lying on Dame Chat's table. The consequences for the curate
are severe. Master Bailey's assistance is next requisitioned, and him friend Diccon cannot
overreach. The whole truth coming out, Diccon is required to kneel and apologize. In doing
so he gives Hodge a slap which elicits from that worthy a yell of pain. But it is a wholesome
pang, for it finds the needle no further away than in the seat of Hodge's breeches.

If we compare this play with Ralph Roister Doister three ideas will occur: first, that we have
made no advance; second, that, in giving the preference to rough country folk, the author has
deliberately abandoned the higher standard of refinement in language and action set in Udall's
major scenes; third, that whereas the earlier work bases its comedy on character, educing the
amusing scenes from the clash of vanity, constancy and mischief, the later play relies for
its comic effects on situations brought about by mischief alone. These are three rather heavy
counts against the younger rival. But in the other scale may be placed a very fair claim to
greater naturalness. Taking the scenes and characters in turn, mischief-maker, churchman and
all, there is none so open to the charge of being impossible, and therefore farcical, as the
battle between the forces of Ralph and Dame Custance, or the incredibly self-deceived Ralph
himself. In accompanying Ralph through his adventures we seem to be moving through a fantastic
world in which Sir Andrew Aguecheek and Malvolio might feel at home; but with Dame Chat, Gammer
Gurton and Hodge we feel the solid earth beneath our feet and around us the strong air which
nourished the peasantry and yeomen of Tudor England.

The first extract is a verse from this comedy's one and famous song; the second is taken from
Act I, Scene 4.

     (1)

    I cannot eat but little meat,
      My stomach is not good;
    But sure I think that I can drink
      With him that wears a hood.
    Though I go bare, take ye no care,
      I am nothing a-cold;
    I stuff my skin so full within
      Of jolly good ale and old.
    Back and side go bare, go bare,
      Both foot and hand go cold:
    But belly, God send thee good ale enough,
      Whether it be new or old.

     (2)

     [HODGE hears of the loss of the needle on his return home from the
     fields.]

    Hodge. Your nee'le lost? it is pity you should lack care and
            endless sorrow.
        Gog's death, how shall my breeches be sewed? Shall I go thus
            to-morrow?

    Gammer. Ah, Hodge, Hodge, if that ich could find my nee'le, by
            the reed,
        Ch'ould sew thy breeches, ich promise thee, with full good
            double thread,
        And set a patch on either knee should last this moneths twain.
        Now God and good Saint Sithe, I pray to send it home again.

    Hodge. Whereto served your hands and eyes, but this your nee'le
            to keep?
        What devil had you else to do? ye keep, ich wot, no sheep.

    Gammer.
        But, wellaway! all was in vain; my nee'le is never the near.

    Hodge. Set me a candle, let me seek, and grope wherever it be.
        Gog's heart, ye be foolish (ich think), you know it not when you
            it see.

    Gammer. Come hither, Cock: what, Cock, I say!

    Cock. How, Gammer?

    Gammer. Go, hie thee soon, and grope behind the old brass pan,
        Which thing when thou hast done,
        There shalt thou find an old shoe, wherein, if thou look well,
        Thou shalt find lying an inch of white tallow candle:
        Light it, and bring it tite away.

    Cock. That shall be done anon.

    Gammer. Nay, tarry, Hodge, till thou hast light, and then we'll
        seek each one.

Ralph Roister Doister and Gammer Gurton's Needle mark the end of the Interlude stage and the
commencement of Comedy proper. Leaving the latter at this point for the present, we shall return
in the next chapter to study its fortunes at the hands of Lyly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Morality Plays, though theoretically quite as suitable for tragic effect as for comic, since
the former only required that Mankind should sometimes fail to reach heaven, seem nevertheless
to have developed mainly the lighter side, setting the hero right at the finish and in the
meantime discovering, to the relief of otherwise bored spectators, that wickedness, in some
unexplained way, was funny. As long as propriety forbade that good should be overcome by evil
it is hard to see how tragedy could appear. Had Humankind, in The Castell of Perseverance,
been fought for in vain by the Virtues, or had Everyman found no companion to go with him and
intercede for him, there had been tragedy indeed. But religious optimism was against any conclusion
so discouraging to repentance. The lingering Miracles, it is true, still presented the sublimest
of all tragedies in the Fall of Man and the apparent triumph of the Pharisees over Jesus. Between
them, however, and the kind of drama that succeeded the Moralities, too great a gulf was fixed.
Contemporaries of those original spirits, Heywood and Udall, could hardly revert for inspiration
to the discredited performances of villages and of a few provincial towns. Tragedy had to wait
until there was matured and made popular an Interlude from which the conflict of Virtues and
Vices, with the orthodox triumph of the former, had been purged away, leaving to the author
complete liberty alike in character and action. When that came, Tragedy returned to the stage,
a stranger with strange stories to tell. Persia and Ancient Rome sent their tyrants and their
heroines to contest for public favour with home-born knaves and fools. Nor were the newcomers
above borrowing the services of those same knaves and fools. The Vice was given a place, low
clownish fellows were admitted to relieve the harrowed feelings, and our old acquaintance,
Herod, was summoned from the Miracles to lend his aid.

Yet even so--and probably because it was so--Tragedy was ill at ease. She had called in low
comedy and rant to please the foolish, only to find herself infected and degraded by their
company. Moreover, the bustle of incident, the abrupt changes from grave to gay and to grave
again, jangled her sad majestic harmonies with shrill interrupting discords. It had not been
so in Greece. It had not been so even in Italy, where Roman Seneca, fearing the least decline
to a lower plane of dignity and impressiveness, had disciplined tragedy by an imposition of
artificial but not unskilful restraints. In place of the strong unbroken sweep of a resistless
current, which characterized the evolution of an Aeschylean drama, he had insisted on an orderly
division of a plot into acts and scenes, as though one should break up the sheer plunge of
a single waterfall into a well-balanced group of cascades. Yet he was wise in his generation,
securing by this means a carefully proportioned development which, in the absence of that genius
which inspired the Greek dramatists, might otherwise have been lost. Once strong and free in
the plays of Aeschylus and his compeers, hampered and constantly under guidance but still dignified
and noble in the Senecan drama, Tragedy now found herself debased and almost caricatured in
the English Interlude stage. Fortunately the danger was seen in time. English writers, face
to face with self-conscious tragedy, realized that here at least was more than unaided native
art could compass. Despairing of success if they persisted in the old methods, they fell back
awkwardly upon classical imitation and, by assiduous study tempered by a wise criticism, achieved
success.

Only two plays with any claim to the designation of tragedies have survived to us from the
Interludes, neither of them of much interest. Cambyses (1561), by Thomas Preston, has all the
qualities of an imperfect Interlude. There are the base fellows and the clowns, Huff, Ruff,
Snuff, Hob and Lob; the abstractions, Diligence, Shame, Common's Complaint, Small Hability,
and the like; the Vice, Ambidexter, who enters 'with an old capcase on his head, an old pail
about his hips for harness, a scummer and a potlid by his side, and a rake on his shoulder';
and the same scuffling and horseplay when the comic element is uppermost. Incident follows
incident as rapidly and with as trifling motives as before. In the course of a short play we
see Cambyses, king of Persia, set off for his conquests in Egypt; return; execute Sisamnes,
his unjust deputy; prove a far worse ruler himself; shoot through the heart the young son of
Praxaspes, to prove to that too-frank counsellor that he is not as drunk as was supposed; murder
his own brother, Smirdis, on the lying report of Ambidexter; marry, contrary to the law of
the Church and her own wish, a lovely lady, his cousin, and then have her executed for reproaching
him with the death of his brother; and finally die, accidentally pierced by his own sword when
mounting a horse. All these horrors, except the death of the lady, take place on the stage.
Thus we have such stage-directions as, 'Smite him in the neck with a sword to signify his death',
'Flay him with a false skin', 'A little bladder of vinegar pricked', 'Enter the King without
a gown, a sword thrust up into his side, bleeding.' Of real tragedy there is little, the hustle
of crime upon crime obliterating the impression which any one singly might produce. Yet even
in this crude orgy of bloodshed the melancholy voice of unaffected pathos can be heard mourning
the loss of dear ones. It speaks in the farewells of Sisamnes and his son Otian, and of Praxaspes
(the honest minister) and his little boy; throughout the whole incident of the gentle lady
whose fate melts even the Vice to tears; and in the outburst of a mother's grief over her child's
corpse. We quote the last.

    O blissful babe, O joy of womb, heart's comfort and delight,
    For counsel given unto the king, is this thy just requite?
    O heavy day and doleful time, these mourning tunes to make!
    With blubb'red eyes into my arms from earth I will thee take,
    And wrap thee in my apron white: but O my heavy heart!
    The spiteful pangs that it sustains would make it in two to part,
    The death of this my son to see: O heavy mother now,
    That from thy sweet and sug'red joy to sorrow so shouldst bow!
    What grief in womb did I retain before I did thee see;
    Yet at the last, when smart was gone, what joy wert thou to me!
    How tender was I of thy food, for to preserve thy state!
    How stilled I thy tender heart at times early and late!
    With velvet paps I gave thee suck, with issue from my breast,
    And danced thee upon my knee to bring thee unto rest.
    Is this the joy of thee I reap? O king of tiger's brood,
    O tiger's whelp, hadst thou the heart to see this child's heart-blood?
    Nature enforceth me, alas, in this wise to deplore,
    To wring my hands, O wel-away, that I should see this hour.
    Thy mother yet will kiss thy lips, silk-soft and pleasant white,
    With wringing hands lamenting for to see thee in this plight.
    My lording dear, let us go home, our mourning to augment.

The second play, Appius and Virginia (1563), by R.B. (not further identified), is, in some
respects, weaker; though, by avoiding the crowded plot which spoilt Cambyses, it attains more
nearly to tragedy. The low characters, Mansipulus and Mansipula, the Vice (Haphazard), and
the abstractions, Conscience, Comfort and their brethren, reappear with as little success.
But the singleness of the theme helps towards that elevation of the main figures and intensifying
of the catastrophe which tragic emotion demands. Unfortunately, from the start the author seems
to have been obsessed with the notion that the familiar rant of Herod was peculiarly suited
to his subject. In such a notion there lay, of course, the half-truth that lofty thoughts and
impassioned speech are more befitting the sombre muse than the foolish chatter of clowns. But,
except where his own deliberately introduced mirth-makers are speaking, he will have nothing
but pompous rhetoric from the lips of his characters. His prologue begins his speech with the
sounding line:

    Who doth desire the trump of fame to sound unto the skies--

Virginius's wife makes her début upon the stage with this encouraging remark to her companion:

    The pert and prickly prime of youth ought chastisement to have,
    But thou, dear daughter, needest not, thyself doth show thee grave.

To which Virginia most becomingly answers:

    Refell your mind of mournful plaints, dear mother, rest your mind.

After this every one feels that the wicked judge, Appius, has done no more than his duty when
he exclaims, at his entrance:

    The furrowed face of fortune's force my pinching pain doth move.

Virginius slays his daughter on the stage and serves her head up in a charger before Appius,
who promptly bursts into a cataclysm of C's ('O curst and cruel cankered churl, O carl unnatural');
but there is not a suggestion of the pathos noticed in Cambyses. Instead there is in one place
a sort of frantic agitation, which the author doubtless thought was the pure voice of tragic
sorrow. It is in the terrible moment when, after the heroic strain of the sacrifice is over,
Virginius realizes the meaning of what he has done. Presumably wild with grief, he raves in
language so startlingly akin to the ludicrous despairs of Pyramus and Thisbe that the modern
reader, acquainted with the latter, is almost jarred into laughter.

    O cruel hands, O bloody knife, O man, what hast thou done?
    Thy daughter dear and only heir her vital end hath won.
    Come, fatal blade, make like despatch: come, Atropos: come, aid!
    Strike home, thou careless arm, with speed; of death be not afraid.

Of such eloquence we might truly say with Theseus, 'This passion, and the death of a dear friend,
would go near to make a man look sad.'

In 1562 Tragedy, as we have said, took refuge in an imitation of the Senecan stage: translations
of Seneca's tragedies had begun to appear in 1559. The Tragedy of Ferrex and Porrex, or Gorboduc,
as it was originally and is now most commonly named, marks a new departure for English drama.
To understand this we ought perhaps to say something about the essential features of a Greek
tragedy (Seneca's own model), and make a note of any special Senecan additions. What strikes
one most in reading a play of Aeschylus is the prominence given to a composite and almost colourless
character known as the Chorus (for though it consists of a body of persons, it speaks, for
the most part, as one), the absence of any effective action from the stage, the limited number
of actors, and the tendency of any speaker to expand his remarks into a set speech of considerable
length. This tendency, especially noticeable in the Chorus, whose speeches commonly take the
form of chants, encouraged the faculty of generalizing philosophically, so that one is constantly
treated to general reflections expressive rather of broad wisdom and piety than of feelings
directly and dramatically aroused; much also is made of retrospection and relation, whether
the topic is ancient history, the events of a recent voyage, or a barely completed crime. The
sage backward glance of the Chorus is quick to discover in present ruin a punishment for past
crime; so that the plot becomes in a manner a picture of the resistless laws of moral justice.
Speeches, a moralizing Chorus, actions not performed but reported in detail, a sense of divine
retribution for sin, these are perhaps the qualities which, apart from the poetry itself, we
recall most readily as typical of a Greek tragedy. These Seneca modified by the introduction
of acts and scenes, a subordination of the Chorus, and an exaggerated predilection for long
sententious speeches; he also added a new stage character known as the Ghost. Seneca's elevation,
to the dogmatic position of laws, of the unities of Time, Place and Action, rules by no means
invariable among his older and greater masters, has been the subject of much debate, but, on
the whole, the verdict has been hostile. According to these unities, the time represented in
the play should not greatly exceed the time occupied in acting it, the scene of the action
should not vary, and the plot should be concerned only with one event. This last law was generally
accepted, by Elizabethans, in Tragedy at least. The other two, though much insisted on by English
theorists, such as Sir Philip Sidney, met with so much neglect in practice that we need devote
no space to the discussion of them.

Having thus hastily summarized the larger superficial characteristics of classical drama, we
may return to Gorboduc and inquire which of these were adopted in it and with what modifications.
We find it divided into five acts and nine scenes. A Chorus, though it takes no other part,
sings its moralizing lyrics at the end of each act except the last. Speeches of inordinate
length are made--three consecutive speeches in Act I, Scene 2, occupy two hundred and sixty
lines--the subject-matter being commonly argumentative. Only through the reports of messengers
and eye-witnesses do we learn of the cold-blooded murder and many violent deaths that take
place. Everywhere hurried action and unreasoning instinct give place to deliberation and debate.
Between this play and its predecessors no change can be more sweeping or more abrupt. In an
instant, as it were, we pass from the unpolished Cambyses, savage and reeking with blood, to
the equally violent events of Gorboduc, cold beneath a formal restraint which, regulating their
setting in the general framework, robs them of more than half their force. Had this severe
discipline of the emotions been accepted as for ever binding upon the tragic stage Elizabethan
drama would have been forgotten. The truth is that the germ of dissension was sown in Gorboduc
itself. Conscious that the banishment of action from the stage, while natural enough in Greece,
must meet with an overwhelming resistance from the popular custom in England, the authors,
Thomas Sackville and Thomas Norton, invented a compromise. Before each act they provided a
symbolical Dumb Show which, by its external position, infringed no classical law, yet satisfied
the demand of an English audience for real deeds and melodramatic spectacles. It was an ingenious
idea, the effect of which was to keep intact the close link between stage and action until
the native genius should be strong enough to cast aside its swaddling clothes and follow its
own bent without hurt. As illustrating this innovation--the reader will not have forgotten
that both Dumb Show and Chorus are to be found in Pericles--we may quote the directions for
the Dumb Show before the second act.

     First, the music of cornets began to play, during which came in
     upon the stage a king accompanied with a number of his nobility and
     gentlemen. And after he had placed himself in a chair of estate
     prepared for him, there came and kneeled before him a grave and
     aged gentleman, and offered up unto him a cup of wine in a glass,
     which the king refused. After him comes a brave and lusty young
     gentleman, and presents the king with a cup of gold filled with
     poison, which the king accepted, and drinking the same, immediately
     fell down dead upon the stage, and so was carried thence away by
     his lords and gentlemen, and then the music ceased. Hereby was
     signified, that as glass by nature holdeth no poison, but is clear
     and may easily be seen through, ne boweth by any art; so a faithful
     counsellor holdeth no treason, but is plain and open, ne yieldeth
     to any indiscreet affection, but giveth wholesome counsel, which
     the ill advised prince refuseth. The delightful gold filled with
     poison betokeneth flattery, which under fair seeming of pleasant
     words beareth deadly poison, which destroyeth the prince that
     receiveth it. As befel in the two brethren, Ferrex and Porrex, who,
     refusing the wholesome advice of grave counsellors, credited these
     young parasites, and brought to themselves death and destruction
     thereby.

But it is time to set forth the plot in more detail. The importance of Gorboduc as an example
of English 'classical' tragedy prompts us to follow it through, scene by scene.

Act I, Scene 1.--Queen Videna discovers to her favourite and elder son, Ferrex, the king's
intention, grievous in her eyes, of dividing his kingdom equally between his two sons. Scene
2.--King Gorboduc submits his plan to the consideration of his three counsellors, whose wise
and lengthy reasonings he listens to but elects to disregard.

Act II, Scene 1.--The division having been carried out, Ferrex, in his part of the kingdom,
is prompted by evil counsel to suspect aggressive rivalry from his brother, and decides to
collect forces for his own defence. Scene 2.--Ferrex's misguided precautions having been maliciously
represented to Porrex as directed against his power, that prince resolves upon an immediate
invasion of his brother's realm.

Act III.--The news of these counter-moves and of the imminent probability of bloodshed is reported
to the king. To restore the courage of the despairing Gorboduc is now the labour of his counsellors,
but the later announcement of the death of Ferrex casts him lower than before. At this point
the Chorus, recalling the murder of a cousin in an earlier generation of the royal race, points,
in true Aeschylean fashion, to the hatred of an unsated revenge behind this latest blow:

    Thus fatal plagues pursue the guilty race,
      Whose murderous hand, imbru'd with guiltless blood,
    Asks vengeance still before the heaven's face,
      With endless mischiefs on the cursed brood.

Act IV, Scene 1.--Videna alone, in words of passionate vehemence, laments that she has lived
so long to see the death of Ferrex, renounces his brother as no child of hers, and concludes
with a threat of vengeance. Scene 2.--Bowed down with remorse, Porrex makes his defence before
the king, pleading the latter's own act, in dividing the kingdom, as the initial cause of the
ensuing disaster. Before he has been long gone from his father's presence, Marcella, a lady-in-waiting,
rushes into the room, in wild disorder and grief, to report his murder at his mother's hand.
In anguished words she tells how, stabbed by Videna in his sleep, he started up and, spying
the queen by his side, called to her for help, not crediting that she, his mother, could be
his murderess. Again, in tones of solemn warning, the Chorus reminds the audience that

    Blood asketh blood, and death must death requite:
      Jove, by his just and everlasting doom,
    Justly hath ever so requited it.

Act V, Scene 1.--This warning is proved true by a report of the death of the king and queen
at the hands of their subjects in revolt against the blood-stained House. Certain of the nobles,
gathered together, resolve upon an alliance for the purpose of restoring a strong government.
The Duke of Albany, however, thinks to snatch power to himself from this opportunity. Scene
2.--Report is made of the suppression of the rebellion, but this news is immediately followed
by a report of Albany's attempted usurpation of the throne. Coalition for his defeat is agreed
upon, and the play ends with the mournful soliloquy of that aged counsellor who first opposed
the division of the throne and now sees, as the consequence of that fatal act, his country,
torn to pieces by civil strife, left an easy prize for an ambitious conqueror.

    Hereto it comes when kings will not consent
    To grave advice, but follow wilful will.
    This is the end, when in fond princes' hearts
    Flattery prevails, and sage rede[51] hath no place:
    These are the plagues, when murder is the mean
    To make new heirs unto the royal crown....
    And this doth grow, when lo, unto the prince,
    Whom death or sudden hap of life bereaves,
    No certain heir remains, such certain heir,
    As not all only is the rightful heir,
    But to the realm is so made known to be;
    And troth thereby vested in subjects' hearts,
    To owe faith there where right is known to rest.

This last quotation, interesting in itself as containing a recommendation to Queen Elizabeth
to marry, or at least name her successor, will also serve as a specimen of the new verse, Blank
Verse, which here, for the first time, finds its way into English drama. Meeting with small
favour from writers skilful in the stringing together of rhymes, it suffered comparative neglect
for some years until Marlowe taught its capacities to his own and future ages. With Sackville's
stiff lines before us we shall be better able to appreciate the later playwright's genius.
But we shall also be reminded that the credit of introducing blank verse must lie with the
older man.

The chief question of all remains to be asked. Does Gorboduc, with all its borrowed devices,
and because of them, rise to a higher level of tragedy than Cambyses and Appius and Virginia?
To answer this question we must examine the effect of those devices, and understand what is
precisely meant by the term tragedy. Let it be first understood that the arrangement of acts
and scenes is comparatively unimportant in this connexion, though most helpful in giving clearness
to the action. Marlowe's Doctor Faustus (in the earlier edition) dispenses with it; so does
Milton's Samson Agonistes; and we have just seen that the great Greek dramatists knew nothing
of it. What is important is the exclusion of that comic element which, in some form or another,
had hitherto found a place in almost every English play; the removal of all action from the
stage--for the Dumb Shows stand apart from the play--; and the substitution of stately speeches
for natural conversation and dialogue. Of all three the purpose is the same, namely, to impress
the audience with a sense of greater dignity and awe than would be imparted by a more familiar
style. The long speeches give importance to the decisions, and compel a belief that momentous
events are about to happen or have happened. In harmony with this effect is the absence of
all comic relief--although Shakespeare was to prove later that this has a useful place in tragedy.
A smile, a jest would be sacrilege in the prevailing gloom. Two effects alone are aimed at;
an impression of loftiness in the theme, and a profound melancholy. Not warm gushing tears.
Those are the outcome of a personal sorrow, small and ignoble beside an abstract grief at 'the
falls of princes', 'the tumbling down of crowns', 'the ruin of proud realms'. What does the
reader or spectator know of Ferrex that he should mingle his cries with Videna's lamentations?
The account of Porrex appealing, with childlike faith in his mother, to the very woman who
has murdered him, may, for the moment, bring tears to the eyes. But it is an accidental touch.
The tragedy lies not there but in the great fact that with him dies the last heir to the throne,
the last hope of avoiding the miseries of a disputed succession; and that in her revengeful
fury the queen, as a woman, has committed the blackest of all crimes, a mother's slaughter
of her child. We are not asked to weep but to gasp at the horror of it. It is in order to protect
the loftier, broader aspects of the catastrophe from the influence of the particular that action
is excluded. This cautions us against confusing tragedy and pathos. To perceive the difference
is to recognize that English Tragedy really begins with Gorboduc. Until its advent the stress
laid on the pathetic partially obscured the tragic. This may be seen at once in the Miracles,
though a little thought will reveal the intensely tragic nature of the complete Miracle Play.
In Cambyses we find the same obscuration: there is tragedy in the sudden ending of those young
lives, but the pathos of the mother's anguish and the sweet girl's pleadings prevent us from
thinking of it. Appius and Virginia maintains a much truer tragic detachment, the effect being
heightened by its opening picture of virtuous happiness destined to abrupt and tyrannous ruin.
But it expresses itself so ill, shatters our hearing so unmercifully with its alliterative
mouthing, and hurls us down so steeply with its low comedy, that we refuse to give its characters
the grandeur or excellence claimed for them by the author. Gorboduc alone presents tragedy
unspoiled by extraneous additions. In its triple catastrophe of princes, crown and realm we
perceive the awful figure of the Tragic Muse and shrink back in reverent fear of what more
may lie hid from us in the folds of her black robe. Darker, much darker and more terrible things
have come since from that gloomy spirit. What has been written here should not be misinterpreted
as an exaggerated appreciation of Gorboduc. We wish only to insist that this play did give
to English drama for the first time (if we exclude translations) an example, however weak in
execution, of pure tragedy; and was able to do so largely, if not entirely, by reason of its
reversion to classical principles and devices.

We have insisted on the difference between Tragedy and Pathos, and criticized the weakening
effect of the latter upon the former. To escape the penalty that awaits general criticism we
may add here that Tragedy is never greater than when her handmaid is ready to do her modest
service. Sophocles puts into the mouth of Oedipus, at the moment of his departure into blind
and desolate exile, tender injunctions regarding the care of his young daughters:

    But my poor maidens, hapless and forlorn,
    Who never had a meal apart from mine,
    But ever shared my table, yea, for them
    Take heedful care; and grant me, though but once,
    Yea, I beseech thee, with these hands to feel,
    Thou noble heart! the forms I love so well,
    And weep with them our common misery.
    Oh, if my arms were round them, I might seem
    To have them as of old when I could see.[52]

Shakespeare, too, knew well how to kindle the soft radiance which, fading again, makes the
ensuing darkness darker still. Ophelia, the sleeping Duncan, Cordelia rise to our minds. Nor
need we quote the famous words of Webster's Ferdinand. It is enough that the greatest scene
in Gorboduc is precisely that scene where pathos softens by a momentary dimness of vision our
horror at a mother's crime.

The Misfortunes of Arthur (1587), by Thomas Hughes, though twenty-five years later, may be
placed next to Gorboduc in our discussion of the rise of tragedy. It will serve as an illustration
of the kind of tragedy that was being evolved from Senecan models by plodding uninspired Englishmen
before Marlowe flung his flaming torch amongst them. To understand the story a slight introduction
is necessary. Igerna, the wife of Gorlois, Duke of Cornwall, was loved by King Uther, who foully
slew her husband and so won her for himself. As a result of this union were born Arthur and
Anne, who, in their youth, perpetuated the inherited taint of sin by becoming the parents of
a boy, Mordred. Afterwards Arthur married Guenevera, and some years later went to France on
a long campaign of conquest. In his absence Mordred gained the love of Guenevera. The play
begins with the contemplated return of Arthur, glorious from victory, the object being to concentrate
attention upon the swift fall from glory and power to ruin and death. Guenevera, having learnt
to hate her husband, debates in her mind his death or hers, finally deciding, however, to become
a nun. Her interview with Mordred ends in his resolving to resist Arthur's landing. Unsuccessful
in this attempt, and defeated in battle, he spurns all thought of submission, challenging his
father to a second conflict, in Cornwall. Arthur, feeling that his sins have found him out,
would gladly make peace; but, stung by Mordred's defiance, he follows him into Cornwall. There
both armies are destroyed and Mordred is slain, though in his death he mortally wounds his
father. After the battle his body is brought before Arthur, in whom the sight awakens yet more
fiercely the pangs of remorse. The play closes immediately before Arthur's own mysterious departure.

Here is all the material for a great tragedy. The point for beginning the story is well chosen,
though in obvious imitation of Agamemnon. Attention is concentrated on the catastrophe, no
alien element being admitted to detract from the melancholy effect. It is sought to intensify
the gloom by recourse to Seneca's stage Ghost; thus, the departed spirit of the wronged Gorlois
opens the play with horrid imprecations of evil upon the house of Uther, and, at the close,
exults in the fullness of his revenge. From his mouth, as well as from the lips of Arthur,
and again from the Chorus (which closes the acts, as in Gorboduc) we learn the great purpose
beneath this overwhelming ruin of a king and kingdom--to show that the day and the hour do
come, however long deferred, when

    Wrong hath his wreak, and guilt his guerdon bears.

As before, all action is rigorously excluded from the stage, to be reported, at great length
and with tremendous striving after vividness and effect, by one who was present. Dumb Shows
before each act continue the attempt to balance matters spectacularly. Clearly the only hope
of dramatic advance for disciples of the Senecan school lay in improved dialogue. This was
possible in four directions, namely, in more stirring topics, in more personal feeling, in
shorter speeches, and in a change in the style of language and verse. Unfortunately for Thomas
Hughes, it is just here that he fails, and fails lamentably. What is more, he fails because
of his methods. The dominant desire of the English 'classical' school was to be impressive.
Hence the adoption by Hughes of a ghostly introduction and conclusion. His conversations, therefore,
must reflect the same idea. He saw, indeed, that long speeches, except at rare intervals, were
tedious, and reduced his to reasonable proportions, even making extensive use--as, we shall
see, the author of Damon and Pythias did before him--of the Greek device of stichomythia. He
was most anxious, also, to provide stirring topics for his characters to speak on, the queen's
uncertainty between crime and religion in the second scene being a notable example. But of
necessity the distance of time and space imposed by his methods between an event and the reporting
of it gives a measure of detachment to its discussion. In the matter of personal feeling, too,
he was hampered by this same unavoidable detachment, and by the need of being impressive; for
he and his friends seem to have been convinced that the wider and less particular the subject
the greater would be the hearer's awe. We need only compare Arthur's speech over Mordred's
body with the lamentation of the mother in Cambyses to perceive how the new methods compel
the king to hasten from the thought of the 'hapless boy' to a consideration of their joint
fate as 'a mirror to the world'. Because, in Cambyses, we know so little more of the boy and
his mother than her grief, his murder fails as tragedy; but had Arthur indulged a little in
such grief as her's, how much more moving would have been the tragedy of The Misfortunes of
Arthur! But this was not the way of the Senecan school. Everywhere we find the same preference,
as in Gorboduc, for broad argument and easily detachable expressions of philosophic wisdom.
What shall be said of the style of language and verse? This much in praise, that Blank Verse
is retained. But--and the thoughtful reader will discern that the same fatal influence is at
work here as elsewhere--Hughes relapses, deliberately, into the artificial speech of Appius
and Virginia. Alliteration charms him with its too artful aid. Nowhere has R.B. such rant as
falls from the pen of Hughes. In the last battle between Arthur and Mordred 'boist'rous bangs
with thumping thwacks fall thick', while the younger leader rages over the field 'all fury-like,
frounc'd up with frantic frets'. Guenevera revives her declining wrath with this invocation
of supernatural aid:

    Come, spiteful fiends, come, heaps of furies fell,
    Not one by one, but all at once! my breast
    Raves not enough: it likes me to be fill'd
    With greater monsters yet. My heart doth throb,
    My liver boils: somewhat my mind portends,
    Uncertain what; but whatsoever, it's huge.

A fairer example, however, of Hughes's style may be taken from Cador's speech urging Arthur
to adopt severe measures against Mordred (Act III, Scene 1):

    No worse a vice than lenity in kings;
    Remiss indulgence soon undoes a realm.
    He teacheth how to sin that winks at sins,
    And bids offend that suffereth an offence.
    The only hope of leave increaseth crimes,
    And he that pardoneth one, embold'neth all
    To break the laws. Each patience fostereth wrong.
    But vice severely punish'd faints at foot,
    And creeps no further off than where it falls.
    One sour example will prevent more vice
    Than all the best persuasions in the world.
    Rough rigour looks out right, and still prevails:
    Smooth mildness looks too many ways to thrive.
    Wherefore, since Mordred's crimes have wrong'd the laws
    In so extreme a sort, as is too strange,
    Let right and justice rule with rigour's aid,
    And work his wrack at length, although too late;
    That damning laws, so damned by the laws,
    He may receive his deep deserved doom.
    So let it fare with all that dare the like:
    Let sword, let fire, let torments be their end.
    Severity upholds both realm and rule.

One feature remains to be spoken of, a feature which redeems the play from an otherwise deserved
obscurity. We refer to the author's creation of characters fit for tragedy. Sackville's royalties
are dull folk, great only by rank. Arthur and Mordred are men of a grander breed, men worthy
to rise to heights and win the attention of the world by their fall. Nor does the author forget
the artistic strength achieved by contrast. Arthur is depicted as a veteran warrior, contented
with his conquests, and anxious to establish peace within his kingdom. He is remorseful, too,
for past sins, and is ready to make amends by yielding up to Mordred the coveted throne--until
that prince's insolence makes compromise impossible. Mordred, on the other hand, stands before
us as the young, ambitious, dauntless aspirant to power, scorning cautious fears, flinging
back every overture for peace, reaching forward to the goal of his hate even across the confines
of life. At the risk of quoting too much we append (with the omission of two interruptions)
Mordred's speech in favour of resisting his father:

    He falleth well, that falling fells his foe.
    Small manhood were to turn my back to chance.
    I bear no breast so unprepar'd for harms.
    Even that I hold the kingliest point of all,
    To brook afflictions well: and by how much
    The more his state and tottering empire sags,
    To fix so much the faster foot on ground.
    No fear but doth forejudge, and many fall
    Into their fate, whiles they do fear their fate.
    Where courage quails, the fear exceeds the harm:
    Yea, worse than war itself is fear of war.

From the brief list of other tragedies preserved from this period of development, and including
such plays as Tancred and Gismunda (1568) and Whetstone's Promos and Cassandra (printed 1578)--the
latter chiefly interesting on account of the criticism of contemporary drama contained in its
Dedication--we select Damon and Pythias (before 1567) by Richard Edwards as an example of native
tragedy influenced but not subjugated by classical models. To be exact, it is a tragi-comedy,
but it is very improbable that the method of presentment would have been different had it ended
tragically; therefore it will suit our purpose. Of importance is the date, some three or four
years later than Gorboduc and seventy years earlier than The Misfortunes of Arthur. When we
call to mind the form finally adopted for tragedy by Shakespeare, we shall find this play an
illuminating beacon, lighting the first steps along the right path. The author was well acquainted
with classical drama, as may be seen in his use of stichomythia, amongst other things, and
possibly in his preference for a Grecian story. He probably knew Gorboduc quite well, and learned
much from its faults. Backed by this knowledge he selected, adapted, and rejected methods at
discretion, and stood finally and definitely by the fundamental principles of the native English
drama, placing all his action on the stage and fearlessly admitting light humorous elements
to relieve the strain of too insistent emotion or suspense. That in one place he went too far
in this direction cannot be denied: the episode of the shaving of Grim the Collier is a bad
error of judgment, founded on a right motive but horribly mismanaged. That mistake, however,
is so glaring that it must have been obvious to all succeeding writers; it could not seriously
affect their judgment of the methods employed in the rest of the play. It is these methods
that we must understand.

First, to sketch the plot. Damon and Pythias with their servant Stephano arrive in Syracuse
in the reign of the tyrant, Dionysius. There Damon is arrested on the denunciation of the informer
Carisophus, and is sentenced to death as a spy. Reprieve for six months is allowed him on the
pledge of Pythias's life as bail, and at the last minute he returns, just in time to save the
life of his devoted and willing friend. Such signal proofs of the sincerity of their affection
win for both of them not only life but royal favour, the king turning from his evil ways to
follow their counsel. A character of importance not mentioned here is Aristippus, 'a pleasant
gentleman' and a successful courtier, whose friendship with Carisophus, an alliance hollow,
suspicious, and most unloving on one side at least, forms an admirable foil for the true friendship
of Damon and Pythias.

There is no division into acts and scenes, but the omission amounts to little more than the
absence of those words from the printed copy, since the plot is most carefully arranged--witness
the gradual introduction of the characters and preparation for the arrest of Damon--and the
stage is frequently cleared. In fact it is perfectly easy to insert the customary labels of
acts and scenes at these latter points, in the manner employed, for example, in the 1616 edition
of Marlowe's Faustus. There are no Dumb Shows, there is no Chorus, there is no Ghost. But our
old friend the Vice is there--without his Devil; the clown too, and Herod; and we note with
interest the modifications which were considered necessary before they could figure creditably
on the tragic stage. Herod needed small alteration: the plot demands a tyrant of ferocious
injustice, who can 'fall in dump and foam like a boar' at a moment's notice, or Damon cannot
be judged worthy of death for his offence. The clown, whose sins, when he committed any, were
always rather the product of evil influence than of original sin, is ennobled to the standing
of an honest faithful slave, simple in his notions, shrewd to save his own skin, overjoyed
at being made a freed man, and withal one who keeps good time by his stomach; in a word, Stephano.
The Vice (of whom Will and Jack are lighter adaptations), the source of all mischief, the Newfangle
of Like Will to Like and the Diccon of Gammer Gurton's Needle, is Carisophus, the disappointed
courtier, who endeavours to creep back to favour by double-dealing with Aristippus and by practising
the base treachery of a common informer, and who finally is kicked out of court and off the
stage by Eubulus, the good counsellor. These adaptations, then, of the stock Interlude characters,
are merely a continuation of the changes initiated by Heywood and others of his day and amplified
in the first regular comedies; they owe nothing to classical influence. But the same feeling
after naturalness which makes Stephano and Carisophus such well-defined realities influences
for good the portraits of the other characters. Aristippus is a thoroughly well drawn likeness
of the easy-going, gracefully selfish, polished courtier; and Damon and Pythias weary us only
by reason of the weight of virtue thrust upon them by the original story, and not to be avoided,
therefore, if the plot was to hold. Even the verse reflects the healthy desire to avoid artificiality.
We shall not attempt to praise it: the roughness in the flow of lines constantly and quite
irregularly varying in length can find little to defend it and many sensitive critics to denounce
it. But there is hardly any doubt that this unevenness was due, not to a false ear for metre,
but to a deliberate attempt to get rid of the unnatural formalism of correct rhymed verse.
Rhyme is retained; but blank verse had only recently appeared and was still in ill favour.
Edwards's device was another experiment in the same direction. Needless to say, alliteration
is not called in to reinforce weak sentiments.

Possibly attributable to classical influence is the adoption of the serious, half-philosophical
tone noticed in Gorboduc and The Misfortunes of Arthur. This quality the author judged to be
a harmonious element in tragedy, and judged aright, though, as was natural at so early a stage,
he tended to exaggerate it. Shakespeare's greatest tragedies abound in passages of deep reflexion
upon life, death, and the problems of right and wrong. We may choose to place the origin of
this grave spirit in the 'classics', but it may be pointed out, with reason, that the persistent
traditions of the Moralities, the pious moralizings retained in such Interludes as Like Will
to Like, may just as easily have passed over naturally into Edwards's work along with the Vice.
In support of this other source may be cited the absence from this play of the long speeches
which went hand in hand with the learned reasoning and soliloquies of Sackville and Norton.
Quite undeniably of classical influence, however, is the refinement and restraint noticeable
throughout the play. These we welcome. They prune the tree of native drama without hacking
off its stoutest limbs. Under their control tragedy steps upon the stage in an English dress
to prove herself worthy of her Roman sister and ultimately capable of far greater achievements.

To select details in proof of the success of Damon and Pythias as a pioneer in tragedy is made
difficult by the fact that it ends happily. But attention may be called to the very praiseworthy
treatment of the comic characters--notably Stephano and the gruff but kind-hearted hangman,
Gronno--and to the humanity which vitalizes the major personages, Carisophus in particular;
to the dignity also, maintained throughout the play (the Collier episode alone excepted), and
to the admirably dramatic suspense secured just before Damon's return. The following extract
is drawn from Pythias's farewell speech at that time, delivered on the scaffold in accordance
with the best English customs:

    But why do I stay any longer, seeing that one man's death
    May suffice, O king, to pacify thy wrath?
    O thou minister of justice, do thine office by and by,
    Let not thy hand tremble, for I tremble not to die.
    Stephano, the right pattern of true fidelity,
    Commend me to thy master, my sweet Damon, and of him crave liberty
    When I am dead, in my name; for thy trusty services
    Hath well deserved a gift far better than this.
    O my Damon, farewell now for ever, a true friend, to me most dear;
    Whiles life doth last, my mouth shall still talk of thee,
    And when I am dead, my simple ghost, true witness of amity,
    Shall hover about the place, wheresoever thou be.

Before this chapter closes a word remains to be said about the rise of History Plays. Pre-eminently
they are the outcome of a patriotism that was growing stronger and stronger as each year increased
the glory of Queen Elizabeth's reign. Nothing in them is more noteworthy than the pride in
England, in England's kings, and in England's defiance and conquest of her foes. Whether we
read The Famous Victories of Henry the Fifth (acted before 1588) or The Troublesome Reign of
King John (printed 1591) we find the same joyous presentment of courageous victory. Unfortunately
for the author of the latter play, his royal subject fell away sadly in his submission to the
Pope; yet the writer would not entirely concede the victory to Rome, and having made the very
most of his king's campaign in France and his defiant rejection of the Papal demands, he attempts
to redeem the situation, even in the dreadful moment of John's kneeling supplication to Pandulph,
by putting into the former's mouth 'asides' expressing a heart completely at variance with
the formal penitence; in fact this scene might be understood as a clever hoodwinking of the
enemy to circumvent the Dauphin. With true artistic and patriotic instinct the author creates
the redoubtable Faulconbridge to demonstrate that Englishmen were stout of heart and loyal
to the throne in its worst perils, whatever might be the temporary failings of the king and
a few nobles. In The Famous Victories the earlier author had for his central figure a type
of character that will always appeal to an English audience. Here we find in fullest expression
that free introduction of the comic by the side of the serious, and that love for jovial intercourse
between royalty and subjects which are so frequent in our History Plays. The roistering of
Prince Hal among his boon companions in the tavern, his boxing of the Judge's ears, and his
consequent arrest; these hold the stage for the first six scenes (there are no acts, in this
play or in the other), and contain several touches and incidents borrowed afterwards by Shakespeare
for his Falstaff. Indeed it is surprising to observe how extensively that great genius appropriated
the work of other men. While commonly refining the language, he was not above borrowing thought
as well as incident--even for the famous lines by the Bastard, Faulconbridge, closing King John.

The form of the History Plays is a direct continuation of the methods of the old Miracles,
and does not differ in essentials from that found in Shakespeare's 'Histories'. Such differences
as do occur are due, as a rule, to minor differences of arrangement and length. The author
of The Troublesome Reign of King John extended his theme into two plays, and so found room
for much that had to be omitted in a single play; Shakespeare, on the other hand, spread over
three plays the royal character--Henry V--which his predecessor comprehended in one. The historical
method had, however, a certain effect on the English drama. It made extremely popular, by its
patriotic subjects, a form which disregarded the skilful evolution of a plot, contenting itself
with a succession of scenes, arranged merely in order of time, that should carry a comprehensive
story to its finish. We shall see this influence operating disastrously in plays other than
History, and must mark it as a retrograde movement in the development of perfect drama. One
extremely valuable contribution of these History Plays was their insistence upon absolute humanness
in the characters. To present a Prince Hal, a King John or a Faulconbridge, a Queen Elinor
or a Constance, as mere mouthpieces or merely royal persons would have been to court immediate
failure before an audience of Englishmen imbued with intense pride in the life and vigour of
their country, their countrymen, and their Queen.

Of the three following extracts from The Troublesome Reign of King
John the first is a speech which might well have found a place in
Shakespeare's first scene, where Faulconbridge is questioned as to his
parentage, the inheritance depending on his answer; the second is from
one of John's dying speeches, full of remorse for his bad government,
and may be compared dramatically with the better known speeches, full
only of outcry against his bodily affliction; the third illustrates the
spirit of patriotic pride which glows in every scene.
    Forgetful what thou art, and whence thou camest.
    Thy father's land cannot maintain these thoughts;
    These thoughts are far unfitting Fauconbridge:
    And well they may; for why, this mounting mind
    Doth soar too high to stoop to Fauconbridge.

     2.

     [KING JOHN, feeling the near approach of death, is filled with
     remorse.]

    Methinks I see a catalogue of sin
    Wrote by a fiend in marble characters,
    The least enough to lose my part in heaven.
    Methinks the devil whispers in mine ears
    And tells me 'tis in vain to hope for grace,
    I must be damned for Arthur's sudden death.
    I see, I see a thousand thousand men
    Come to accuse me for my wrong on earth,
    And there is none so merciful a God
    That will forgive the number of my sins.
    How have I liv'd but by another's loss?
    What have I lov'd but wreck of other's weal?
    When have I vow'd and not infring'd mine oath?
    Where have I done a deed deserving well?
    How, what, when and where have I bestow'd a day
    That tended not to some notorious ill?
    My life, replete with rage and tyranny,
    Craves little pity for so strange a death;
    Or who will say that John deceas'd too soon?
    Who will not say he rather liv'd too long?

     3.

     [ARTHUR warns the KING OF FRANCE not to expect ready submission
     from JOHN.]

    I rather think the menace of the world
    Sounds in his ears as threats of no esteem;
    And sooner would he scorn Europa's power
    Than lose the smallest title he enjoys;
    For questionless he is an Englishman.

[Footnote 49: boasting.]

[Footnote 50: I am.]

[Footnote 51: counsel.]

[Footnote 52: Oedipus Tyrannus (Lewis Campbell's translation).]

CHAPTER V

COMEDY: LYLY, GREENE, PEELE, NASH

The term 'University Wits' is the title given to a group of scholarly young men who, from 1584
onwards, for about ten years, took up play-writing as a serious profession, and by their abilities
and genius raised English drama to the rank of literature. Previous dramatists had also been
men of good education and fair wit; Sackville, to name but one, was a man of great gifts and
sound learning. But tradition has restricted the name to seven men whom time, circumstances,
mental qualities and mutual acquaintanceship brought together as one group. The majority stood
to each other almost in the relation of friends; they were rivals for public favour, were well
acquainted with each other's work, and were quick to follow one another along improved paths.
Taking up comedy at the stage of Ralph Roister Doister and tragedy at that of The Misfortunes
of Arthur, they transformed and refined both, lifting them to higher levels of humour and passion,
gracing them with many witty inventions, and, above all, pouring into the pallid arteries of
drama the rich vitalizing blood of a new poetry. The seven men were Lyly, Greene, Peele, Nash,
Lodge, Kyd and Marlowe--named not in chronological sequence but in the order of their discussion
in these pages.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps no dramatist is more out of touch with modern taste than John Lyly. The ordinary reader,
taking up one of his plays by chance, will probably set it down wearily after the perusal of
barely one or two acts. And yet Lyly excels any of his contemporaries in witty invention, and
is the creator of what has been called High Comedy. His importance, therefore, in the history
of the growth of the drama is considerable. Nor is his fancy found to be so dull when approached
in the right spirit. True, it requires an effort to step back into the shoes of an Elizabethan
courtier. But the effort is worth making, since the mind, as soon as it has realized what not
to expect, is better able to appreciate what is offered. The essential requirement is to remember
that Lyly the dramatist is the same man as Lyly the euphuist, and that his audience was always
a company of courtiers, with Queen Elizabeth in their midst, infatuated with admiration for
the new phraseology and mode of thought known as Euphuism. If we consider the manner in which
these lords and ladies spent their time at court, filling idle hours with compliment, love-making,
veiled jibe and swift retort; if we read our Euphues again, renewing our acquaintance with
its absurdly elaborated and stilted style, its tireless winding of sentences round a topic
without any advance in thought, its affectation of philosophy and classical learning; if we
remember that to speak euphuistically was a coveted and studiously cultivated accomplishment,
and that to pun, to utter caustic jests, to let fall neat epigrams were the highest ambition
of wit; if we take this trouble to prepare ourselves for reading Lyly's plays, we may still
find them dull, but we shall at least understand why they took the form they did, and shall
be in a position to recognize the substantial service rendered to Comedy by the author. Lyly's
work was just the application of the laws of euphuism to native comedy, and it wrought a change
curiously similar to the effect of Senecan principles upon native tragedy, transferring the
importance from the action to the words. It may be remarked that this redistribution of the
interest must always be of great value in the early stage of any literature. The popular taste
for action and incident is sure to be gratified sooner or later; the demand for elegant and
appropriate diction, usually confined to the cultured few, is more apt to be passed over. Euphuism
never did the harm to comedy which tragedy suffered at the hands of the late Elizabethans who,
in their pursuit of moving incident, lost themselves in a reckless licence of language and
verse. Action, therefore, fell into the background. Refinement, elevation was aimed at. In
the place of Hodge, Dame Chat and their company, there now appeared gracious beings of perfect
manners and speech; and since things Greek and mythological had become the fashion, Arcadian
nymphs and swains, beauteous goddesses and Athenian philosophers were judged the most fitting
to stand before the English court. In scene after scene fair ladies talk of love, reverend
sages display their readiness in solving knotty problems, lovers sigh into the air long rhapsodies
over the charms of their mistresses, sharp-tongued (but rarely coarse) serving-boys lure fools
into greater folly or exchange amusing badinage at the expense of their absent masters. The
story does not advance much, but that is of small account so long as the dialogue tickles ears
taught to find delight in well-spoken euphuism. It is like listening to a song in a language
one does not understand: provided that the harmony is beautiful one is not distressed about
the verbal message. Besides, there is some plot, slight though it be, and its theme is love,
chiefly of the languishing, half-hopeless kind which was supposed to be cherished by every
bachelor courtier for the queen. There is, too, for those who can read it, an allegory often
concealed in the story of disappointed love or ambition which moves round Cynthia or Diana
or Sapho. Was there no lover who aspired as Endymion aspired, no Spanish king meriting the
fate of Mydas, no man favoured as was Phao by Sapho? Even at this distance of time we can amuse
ourselves by guessing names, and so catch something of the interest which, at the time of the
play's appearance, would set eyebrows arching with surprise, and send, at each daring reference
or well-aimed compliment, a nod of approving intelligence around the audience.

Lyly wrote eight comedies: Campaspe (printed 1584), Sapho and Phao (printed 1584), Endymion
(printed 1591), Gallathea (printed 1592), Mydas (printed 1592), Mother Bombie (printed 1594),
The Woman in the Moon (printed 1597), Love's Metamorphoses (printed 1601). All these, with
the exception of the seventh--which is in regular and pleasing, though not vigorous, blank
verse--were written in prose, as we should expect from the founder of so famous a prose style;
but as The Supposes, a translation by Gascoigne of Ariosto's I Suppositi, had previously appeared
in prose, Lyly's claim as an innovator is weakened. The fact, however, that Ariosto wrote a
prose, as well as a poetic, version of his play, and that Gascoigne made use of both in his
translation, gives to the latter's prose a borrowed quality, and leaves Lyly fully entitled
to whatever credit belongs to the earliest native productions of this kind. He was the first
to announce, by practice, the theory that English comedy could find fuller expression in prose
than in verse, for, beginning with verse, he deliberately set it aside in favour of prose,
and, having proved the superiority of prose for this purpose, persisted in it to the end. Of
his eight plays, the more interesting only will be dealt with here; the rest we leave to the
curiosity of the reader.

Campaspe, his first prose comedy, is perhaps the most perfect example of the new euphuistic
method at work. The plot is of the slightest. Alexander the Great is in love with the beauty
of Campaspe, a Theban captive; but Apelles, the artist, who is ordered to paint her picture,
having also fallen in love with her, and won her love, Alexander in the end graciously resigns
his claim upon her. This is the plot, but it is very little guide to the contents of the play,
which is crowded with characters. There are, in addition to the three leading persons, four
Warriors to discuss the condition of the army, seven Philosophers to puzzle each other with
disputation and metaphysical conundrums, three Servants to deride their masters behind their
backs, a General to act as Alexander's confidant and counsellor, beside some nine others and
a company of citizens. One of the chief characters, Diogenes, stands quite apart from the plot,
his office being to provide an inexhaustible fund of shrewd, biting retorts for such as dare
to question him. He is even elevated to the centre of a major episode in which the Athenian
populace, credulous of a report that he is about to fly, is deceived into hearing a very sharp
sermon as, on the wings of criticism, Diogenes executes an oratorical flight over their many
failings. The following scene between him and a beggar reveals the nature of his wit.

     Alexander (aside). Behold Diogenes talking with one at his tub.

     Crysus. One penny, Diogenes; I am a Cynic.

     Diogenes. He made thee a beggar, that first gave thee anything.

     Crysus. Why, if thou wilt give nothing, nobody will give thee.

     Diogenes. I want nothing, till the springs dry and the earth
     perish.

     Crysus. I gather for the Gods.

     Diogenes. And I care not for those Gods which want money.

     Crysus. Thou art not a right Cynic that wilt give nothing.

     Diogenes. Thou art not, that wilt beg anything.

     Crysus. (seeing Alexander). Alexander, King Alexander, give a
     poor Cynic a groat.

     Alexander. It is not for a king to give a groat.

     Crysus. Then give me a talent.

     Alexander. It is not for a beggar to ask a talent. Away!

The charm of the play lies in the romance of Apelles' love for Campaspe, and in the delicacy
of his wooing. Here is pure Romantic Comedy, such as Greene imitated and Shakespeare made delightful.
Not at first will Campaspe yield the gates of her heart, nor does the artist press the attack
with heated fervour. So gentle a besieger is he, that we perceive the young couple drifting
into love on the stream of destiny, almost reluctant to betray their growing feelings through
fear of the wrath of Alexander. Apelles is already smitten but Campaspe is still 'fancy free'
when, in the artist's studio, she questions him about his pictures.

     Campaspe. What counterfeit is this, Apelles?

     Apelles. This is Venus, the Goddess of love.

     Campaspe. What, be there also loving Goddesses?

     Apelles. This is she that hath power to command the very
     affections of the heart.

     Campaspe. How is she hired? by prayer, by sacrifice, or bribes?

     Apelles. By prayer, sacrifice, and bribes.

     Campaspe. What prayer?

     Apelles. Vows irrevocable.

     Campaspe. What sacrifice?

     Apelles. Hearts ever sighing, never dissembling.

     Campaspe. What bribes?

     Apelles. Roses and kisses. But were you never in love?

     Campaspe. No, nor love in me.

     Apelles. Then have you injured many.

     Campaspe. How so?

     Apelles. Because you have been loved of many.

     Campaspe. Flattered perchance of some.

     Apelles. It is not possible that a face so fair, and a wit so
     sharp, both without comparison, should not be apt to love.

     Campaspe. If you begin to tip your tongue with cunning, I pray
     dip your pencil in colours; and fall to that you must do, not that
     you would do.

Thus she sets him aside. Poor Apelles, alone, in a later scene laments his fate in loving her
whom Alexander desires, ending his mournful soliloquy with a song, the most beautiful of all
that Lyly has scattered so lavishly through his plays.

But when the picture is nearly finished, when the sittings are almost over and with them the
intimacy of artist and model, then we discover that the tender sighs of Apelles have sweetened
the friendship of Campaspe into love, and the secret of each soul is known to the other.

     Apelles. I have now, Campaspe, almost made an end.

     Campaspe. You told me, Apelles, you would never end.

     Apelles. Never end my love, for it shall be eternal.

     Campaspe. That is, neither to have beginning nor ending.

     Apelles. You are disposed to mistake: I hope you do not mistrust.

     Campaspe. What will you say if Alexander perceive your love?

     Apelles. I will say it is no treason to love.

     Campaspe. But how if he will not suffer thee to see my person?

     Apelles. Then will I gaze continually on thy picture.

     Campaspe. That will not feed thy heart.

     Apelles. Yet shall it fill mine eye: besides, the sweet thoughts,
     the sure hopes, thy protested faith, will cause me to embrace thy
     shadow continually in mine arms, of the which by strong imagination
     I will make a substance.

     Campaspe. Well, I must be gone. But of this assure yourself, that
     I had rather be in thy shop grinding colours than in Alexander's
     court, following higher fortunes.

By a happy stroke of wit Alexander, guessing the truth of the matter, makes Apelles confess
indirectly and unconsciously what discretion would enjoin him to keep concealed. Apelles and
Alexander are talking together when a servant rushes up, crying out that the former's studio
is on fire. 'Aye me!' exclaims the horrified artist; 'if the picture of Campaspe be burnt I
am undone!' Alexander smiles, for the servant's alarm is false and pre-arranged, but the alarm
of Apelles is too genuine to have less than the one meaning.

For its own sake, as too choice an example of euphuistic prose to be missed, we add an extract
from the speech of Hephestion, Alexander's friend and adviser, urging that king to shake off
the fetters of love that bind his arms from further conquest.

     Beauty is like the blackberry, which seemeth red when it is not
     ripe, resembling precious stones that are polished with honey,
     which the smoother they look the sooner they break. It is thought
     wonderful among the seamen that Mugill, of all fishes the swiftest,
     is found in the belly of the Bret, of all the slowest: and shall it
     not seem monstrous to wise men, that the heart of the greatest
     conqueror of the world should be found in the hands of the weakest
     creature of nature? of a woman? of a captive? Ermines have fair
     skins but foul livers; sepulchres, fresh colours but rotten bones;
     women, fair faces but false hearts. Remember, Alexander, thou hast
     a camp to govern, not a chamber; fall not from the armour of Mars
     to the arms of Venus, from the fiery assaults of war to the
     maidenly skirmishes of love, from displaying the eagle in thine
     ensign to set down the sparrow. I sigh, Alexander, that, where
     fortune could not conquer, folly should overcome.

In Endymion we find a much more complex plot, but less that is natural and attractive. Historical
tradition and the unchanging habits of lovers give their sanction to most of the scenes in
Campaspe. But Endymion carries us into the realm of mythology, where all is unreal and where
the least heaviness in the pencil of fancy must convert things that should appear golden into
dull lead. Lyly's wit strives gallantly to maintain the light tints, pressing fairies and moonbeams
into his service, and ransacking the stores of improbability in despair of mingling the impossible
and the possible effectively; but the gilt, if not entirely lost, wears very thin in places.

Endymion is in love with Cynthia, the Moon, though aware that his aspiration must remain for
ever hopeless. Tellus, the Earth, herself enamoured of Endymion, jealously resolves to punish
his indifference to her by deep melancholy. Accordingly she visits the witch, Dipsas, by whose
magic aid the youth, found resting on a bank of lunary, is bewitched to sleep until old age.
Not for this crime but for a minor one, Tellus is sentenced by Cynthia to imprisonment under
the care of Corsites. Eumenides, the loyal friend of Endymion, seeks everywhere for the means
to awaken his comrade, until he finds a clue in the magic fountain of Geron, husband to old
Dipsas, but banished by her wicked power. With this clue, which is interpreted as requiring
the moon to kiss the sleeper, Eumenides hastens to Cynthia. Meanwhile Tellus, finding that
her beauty has taken Corsites captive, and wishing to be rid of his attentions, sets him, as
a trial of his affection, the impossible, though apparently easy, task of removing Endymion
from the bank of lunary. Corsites fails, and fairies send him to sleep, dancing around him
with a song and pinching his unresisting body black and blue. A chance visit of Cynthia and
her train fortunately arouses him, but Endymion still sleeps his forty years of manhood away
undisturbed. At last Eumenides returns with his oracular clue and persuades Cynthia to attempt
the cure. Very graciously the queen kisses the pale forehead. At once consciousness returns,
and as a white-haired old man the once handsome young courtier arises. He has two dreams to
tell (shown in Dumb Show in an earlier scene) but can offer no explanation of his bewitchment.
Then Bagoa, the servant of Dipsas, betrays the secret of her mistress's crime. Dipsas and Tellus
are summoned before Cynthia, who now hears for the first time the story of Endymion's devotion
to her. The fact is pleasing. So far from visiting the presumption with displeasure she bids
him love on, not in any hope of marriage, since that is impossible, but in the assurance of
her special favour. With that she smiles kindly upon him; like mists before the sunrise his
white hairs and wrinkles vanish, his pristine beauty being restored by her genial condescension.
Matters hasten to a close. Tellus is willing to marry Corsites, Eumenides wins the consent
of sharp-tongued Semele to be his bride, Dipsas and Geron agree to reconciliation, and Bagoa,
saved from the blasting curse of her angry mistress, weds Sir Tophas, the eccentric and ludicrous
knight whose folly is thrust into the play whenever there is a danger of the main plot becoming
tedious.

Certainly one cannot complain of a want of incident here. Nor is there any lack of that complex
subordination of scene to scene, that building of one event upon another which is the foundation
of skilful plot-structure. In this play Lyly justifies himself against those who would conclude
from others of his plays that he could not construct a plot. Yet it is a disappointing comedy.
Nor is the reason hard to discover. The first dozen pages show that, apart from the caricatured
Sir Tophas and the inevitable Pages (or Servants), all the characters speak in exactly the
same way, in fact are the same persons in all but condition. The well-managed contrast noticed
in Damon and Pythias has no place in Lyly's arrangement of characters. Were the relation of
circumstance and individual hidden, no one would know from a given speech whether Cynthia,
Tellus, or Dipsas was speaking; nor would Endymion, Eumenides and Geron be better distinguished.
This, for example, is from the lips of the old hag, Dipsas, as, spreading her enchantments
around her victim, she mutters over his head the curse of a blasted life.

     Thou that layest down with golden locks shalt not awake until they
     be turned to silver hairs; and that chin, on which scarcely
     appeareth soft down, shall be filled with bristles as hard as
     broom: thou shalt sleep out thy youth and flowering time, and
     become dry hay before thou knewest thyself green grass; and ready
     by age to step into the grave when thou wakest, that was youthful
     in the court when thou laidest thee down to sleep.

There is one scene in the main plot which invites special mention, namely, that in which the
fairies appear. This, their first entrance into English drama, must have created a mild sensation
amongst the surprised and delighted spectators, as, in shimmering dress and gossamer wings,
these airy sprites danced around the astonished Corsites and sang the lyrical decree of punishment
for his intrusion upon their domain. The incident is worth quoting in full, from the point
where Corsites' labours are suddenly interrupted.

     [Enter FAIRIES.]

     Corsites. But what are these so fair fiends that cause my hairs
     to stand upright, and spirits to fall down? Hags, out alas, Nymphs,
     I crave pardon. Aye me, but what do I hear?

     [The FAIRIES dance, and with a Song pinch him, and he falleth
     asleep. They kiss ENDYMION and depart.]

    Omnes. Pinch him, pinch him, black and blue;
        Saucy mortals must not view
        What the Queen of Stars is doing,
        Nor pry into our fairy wooing.

    1 Fairy. Pinch him blue.

    2 Fairy. And pinch him black.

    3 Fairy. Let him not lack
        Sharp nails to pinch him blue and red,
        Till sleep has rock'd his addle head.

    4 Fairy. For the trespass he hath done,
        Spots o'er all his flesh shall run.
        Kiss Endymion, kiss his eyes,
        Then to our midnight heidegyes.       [Exeunt.]

An additional interest of allegorical meaning attaches to the story of Endymion and Cynthia
as told by Lyly, curious students tracing behind it all the details of the affaire between
the Earl of Leicester and Queen Elizabeth. To learn the extent to which the inquiry has been
pursued we may turn to Professor Ward's English Dramatic Literature and read the following:
'Mr. Halpin has examined at length the question of the secret meaning of Lyly's comedy, and
has come to the conclusion that it is a dramatic representation of the disgrace brought upon
Leicester (Endymion) by his clandestine marriage with the Countess of Sheffield (Tellus), pending
his suit for the hand of his royal mistress (Cynthia). Endymion's forty years' sleep upon the
bank of lunary is his imprisonment at Elizabeth's favourite Greenwich; the friendly intervention
of Eumenides is that of the Earl of Sussex; and the solution of the difficulty in Tellus's
marriage to Corsites is the marriage of the Countess of Sheffield to Sir Edward Stafford. I
need pursue this solution no further, except to note that under the three heads of "highly
probable", "probable", and "not improbable", Mr. Halpin has assigned originals to all the important
characters of the piece. I am inclined to think the attempt successful.'

More entertaining to the reader than either the devotion of Endymion or the mischievous jealousy
of Tellus is the character of Sir Tophas. His position in the play is that of Diogenes in Campaspe,
and we observe the same tendency to eccentric speech and action. When we pursue the comparison
further, however, we discover a marked decline in wit in the second creation. Lyly had a tradition
of truth to help him in his conception of the crusty philosopher. In his picture of the foolish,
boastful knight he followed the author of Thersites in his exaggerated caricature until the
least semblance of truth to nature is banished from the portrait. It is interesting to compare
him with Ralph Roister Doister. Nevertheless if we project Sir Tophas upon the stage, and by
our imagination dress him and make him strut and gesticulate after such a fashion as the text
seems to indicate, we shall probably discover ourselves smiling over puns and remarks which,
on casual perusal, we might pronounce flavourless imbecilities. Indeed, for sheer laughable
absurdity on the stage, Sir Tophas would be hard to beat. The following scene will also show
the decent quality of wit which Lyly bestowed upon his Pages--lineal descendants of the old
Vice through those younger sons, Will and Jack.[53]

     [SIR TOPHAS and his page, EPITON, have just met SAMIAS and
     DARES.]

     Tophas. What be you two?

     Samias. I am Samias, page to Endymion.

     Dares. And I Dares, page to Eumenides.

     Tophas. Of what occupation are your masters?

     Dares. Occupation, you clown! Why, they are honourable and
     warriors.

     Tophas. Then are they my prentices.

     Dares. Thine! And why so?

     Tophas. I was the first that ever devised war, and therefore by
     Mars himself had given me for my arms a whole armoury; and thus I
     go as you see, clothed with artillery; it is not silks (milksops),
     nor tissues, nor the fine wool of Ceres, but iron, steel, swords,
     flame, shot, terror, clamour, blood and ruin that rocks asleep my
     thoughts, which never had any other cradle but cruelty. Let me see,
     do you not bleed?

     Dares. Why so?

     Tophas. Commonly my words wound.

     Samias. What then do your blows?

     Tophas. Not only wound, but also confound.

     Samias. How darest thou come so near thy master, Epi? Sir Tophas,
     spare us.

     Tophas. You shall live. You, Samias, because you are little; you,
     Dares, because you are no bigger; and both of you, because you are
     but two; for commonly I kill by the dozen, and have for every
     particular adversary a peculiar weapon....

     Samias. What is this? Call you it your sword?

     Tophas. No, it is my scimitar; which I, by construction often
     studying to be compendious, call my smiter.

     Dares. What, are you also learned, sir?

     Tophas. Learned? I am all Mars and Ars.

     Samias. Nay, you are all mass and ass.

     Tophas. Mock you me? You shall both suffer, yet with such weapons
     as you shall make choice of the weapon wherewith you shall perish.
     Am I all a mass or lump? Is there no proportion in me? Am I all
     ass? Is there no wit in me? Epi, prepare them to the slaughter.

     Samias. I pray, sir, hear us speak! We call you mass, which your
     learning doth well understand is all man, for Mas maris is a man.
     Then As (as you know) is a weight, and we for your virtues
     account you a weight.

     Tophas. The Latin hath saved your lives, the which a world of
     silver could not have ransomed. I understand you, and pardon you.

     Dares. Well, Sir Tophas, we bid you farewell, and at our next
     meeting we will be ready to do you service.

A happy combination of the romance of Campaspe with the mythology of Endymion is found in the
graceful and charming comedy, Gallathea. Its plot is really double, though happily blended,
while yet a third and independent thread of lower comedy is drawn through it. On the shores
of the Humber in Lincolnshire dwell two shepherds, Tyterus and Melebeus, each the possessor
of a beautiful daughter, by name Gallathea and Phillida. Every year the god Neptune is accustomed
to exact the sacrifice of the fairest girl of the country to his pet monster, the Agar (the
Humber eagre), and this year each fond father dreads lest his daughter will be chosen for the
victim. To save them the girls are disguised as boys. Strangers to each other, they meet and
fall in love, each believing the other to be what she appears, though many a doubt is raised
by replies which seem more befitting a maid than a youth. In a neighbouring forest range Diana
and her chaste nymphs, amongst whom Cupid, out of pure mischief, lets fly his golden-headed
arrows. At once the nymphs feel strange emotions within them, which quicken into uneasiness
and longing at the sight of Gallathea and Phillida. But Diana detects the change, guesses at
the cause, and promptly makes capture of Cupid. His wings clipped, his bow burnt, all his arrows
broken, he is beaten and set to a task. Meanwhile the day of sacrifice has arrived and, in
default of a better, a victim is found. But Neptune will have no second-best: what promises
to be a tragedy changes to joy on the god's refusal to accept the proffered girl. However,
the sacrifice is only postponed. Moreover the delay has given rise to a stricter search, which
means increased peril for the disguised maidens. Fortunately intervention arrives before discovery.
Venus, having learnt of Cupid's captivity, and not being powerful enough to effect his release
unaided, invokes the help of Neptune against Diana. Instead of the use of force, however, a
compact is arrived at; Cupid is released on condition that Neptune remits his claim upon a
yearly victim. Thus are Gallathea and Phillida saved; but for a harder fate of hopeless love--for
their constancy is irrevocable--were it not that Venus interposes with a promise that one of
them shall be changed into a boy in reality. Happy in this future they depart to prepare for
marriage.--The thread of lower comedy introduces the customary three merry lads, but deals
mainly with the fortunes of one of them, Raffe, who finds employment successively with an alchemist
and an astronomer, only to find their promises out of all proportion to their performances.
The wonderful prospects held out before him, and his disillusionment, afford scope for much
sarcastic wit at the expense of quackery.

The pre-eminent feature of the play is the delicate handling of the romantic plot. We see the
same fine brush at work as limned the picture of Apelles and Campaspe, while this time the
artist has chosen a more harmonious background of meadow and woodland and river, of shepherds
and forest nymphs. To Peele the priority in the use of pastoralism in drama must doubtless
be assigned; but the play of Gallathea loses none of its merit on that account. Coupled with
a pretty ambiguity of sex, this pastoral setting completes the model from which As You Like
It was yet to be moulded. Probably Peele, in his Sir Clyomon and Sir Clamydes, preceded Lyly
also in the introduction of sex-disguise, but his Neronis stirs up no serious difficulties
by her appearance as a shepherd boy and a page, whereas in Gallathea the disguise is the core
of the plot. To Lyly, therefore, may be given all the credit for the discovery of the dramatic
value of this simple device. With his return to the mutual loves of ordinary human beings (for
they are that, however extraordinary the conditions) he happily restores to his characters
the naturalness which they enjoyed in the earlier play. The machinery of gods and goddesses
is perhaps to be regretted, though euphuistic drama could hardly spare it; but if we boldly
swallow it as inevitable, the motive for the disguises at once becomes perfectly reasonable,
while the whole consequent behaviour of the girls is charged with most amusing and delightful
naïveté. Less natural, of course, is the story of Cupid's mischief; yet mythology never gave
to the stage a prettier piece of love-moralizing than is found in the scene of Cupid at his
penal task of untying love-knots.--The very opening lines of the play announce the presence
of Nature with her sunshine and grass and good substantial oaks.

     Tyterus. The sun doth beat upon the plain fields; wherefore let
     us sit down, Gallathea, under this fair oak, by whose broad leaves
     being defended from the warm beams, we may enjoy the fresh air
     which softly breathes from Humber floods.

     Gallathea. Father, you have devised well; and whilst our flock
     doth roam up and down this pleasant green, you shall recount to me,
     if it please you, for what cause this tree was dedicated unto
     Neptune, and why you have thus disguised me.

It is hard to do justice to such a play as this except by considerable generosity in the matter
of quotations. Accordingly we offer three passages illustrative of the delicacy of our author's
art.

     (1)

     [GALLATHEA and PHILLIDA, in disguise, meet for the first time.]

     Gallathea (at the close of a soliloquy). But whist! here cometh
     a lad. I will learn of him how to behave myself.

     Phillida (entering). I neither like my gate nor my garments,
     the one untoward, the other unfit, both unseemly. O Phillida! But
     yonder stayeth one, and therefore say nothing. But O, Phillida!

     Gallathea. I perceive that boys are in as great disliking of
     themselves as maids; therefore, though I wear the apparel, I am
     glad I am not the person.

     Phillida. It is a pretty boy and a fair; he might well have been
     a woman. But because he is not I am glad I am, for now, under the
     colour of my coat, I shall decipher the follies of their kind.

     Gallathea. I would salute him, but I fear I should make a curtsey
     instead of a leg.

     Phillida. If I durst trust my face as well as I do my habit I
     would spend some time to make pastime, for say what they will of a
     man's wit, it is no second thing to be a woman.

     Gallathea. All the blood in my body would be in my face if he
     should ask me (as the question among men is common), 'Are you a
     maid?'

     Phillida. Why stand I still? Boys should be bold. But here cometh
     a brave train that will spill all our talk.

     [Enter DIANA, &c.]

     (2)

     [GALLATHEA and PHILLIDA endeavour to sound the affection of each
     other, but only succeed in raising disturbing doubts.]

     Phillida. Suppose I were a virgin (I blush in supposing myself
     one) and that under the habit of a boy were the person of a maid,
     if I should utter my affection with sighs, manifest my sweet love
     by my salt tears, and prove my loyalty unspotted and my griefs
     intolerable, would not then that fair face pity this true heart?

     Gallathea. Admit that I were as you would have me suppose that
     you are, and that I should with entreaties, prayers, oaths, bribes,
     and whatever can be invented in love, desire your favour,--would
     you not yield?

     Phillida. Tush! you come in with 'admit'!

     Gallathea. And you with 'suppose'!

     Phillida (aside). What doubtful speeches be these? I fear me he
     is as I am, a maiden.

     Gallathea (aside). What dread riseth in my mind? I fear the boy
     to be as I am, a maiden.

     Phillida (aside). Tush! it cannot be: his voice shows the
     contrary.

     Gallathea (aside). Yet I do not think it--for he would then
     have blushed.

     Phillida. Have you ever a sister?

     Gallathea. If I had but one, my brother must needs have two; but,
     I pray, have you ever a one?

     Phillida. My father had but one daughter, and therefore I could
     have no sister.

     Gallathea (aside). Aye me! he is as I am, for his speeches be
     as mine are.

     Phillida (aside). What shall I do? Either he is subtle, or my
     sex simple.... (to Gallathea) Come, let us into the grove and
     make much one of another, that cannot tell what to think one of
     another. [Exeunt.]

     (3)

     [CUPID, in captivity, is set to his task by four nymphs.]

     Telusa. Come, sirrah! to your task! First you must undo all these
     lovers' knots, because you tied them.

     Cupid. If they be true love knots 'tis unpossible to unknit them;
     if false, I never tied them.

     Eurota. Make no excuse, but to it.

     Cupid. Love knots are tied with eyes, and cannot be undone with
     hands; made fast with thoughts, and cannot be unloosed with
     fingers. Had Diana no task to set Cupid to but things impossible? I
     will to it.

     Ramia. Why, how now? you tie the knots faster.

     Cupid. I cannot choose; it goeth against my mind to make them
     loose.

     Eurota. Let me see;--now 'tis unpossible to be undone.

     Cupid. It is the true love knot of a woman's heart, therefore
     cannot be undone.

     Ramia. That falls in sunder of itself.

     Cupid. It was made of a man's thought, which will never hang
     together.

     Larissa. You have undone that well.

     Cupid. Aye, because it was never tied well.

     Telusa. To the rest; for she will give you no rest. These two
     knots are finely untied!

     Cupid. It was because I never tied them. The one was knit by
     Pluto, not Cupid, by money, not love; the other by force, not
     faith, by appointment, not affection.

     Ramia. Why do you lay that knot aside?

     Cupid. For death.

     Telusa. Why?

     Cupid. Because the knot was knit by faith, and must only be
     unknit of death.

The plot of Mother Bombie must be briefly sketched because it is the only one in which Lyly
dispenses with the aid of classical tradition and mythology and attempts a Comedy of Intrigue.
As such it has a certain historical interest.--The scene is Rochester, Kent. Memphio and Stellio,
the fathers respectively of son Accius and daughter Silena, separately and craftily resolve
to bring about by fraud the wedding of these two young people, for the reason that each knows
his child to be weak-minded, and, believing his neighbour's child to be sound-witted and of
good heritage, perceives that only deceit can accomplish the union. In this attempt to overreach
each other they employ their servants, Dromio and Riscio, as principal agents. Not far away
live two young people, Livia and Candius, whose mutual love is made unhappy by the opposition
of their fathers, Prisius and Sperantius, since these latter covet rather their children's
marriage with Accius and Silena. In pursuit of this other object these two countrymen send
their servants, Lucio and Halfpenny, to spy out the land. By the ordinary chance of good comradeship
the four servants meet and make known to each other their errands, when the opportunity of
a mischievous entangling of the threads at once becomes apparent. Disguises are used, with
the result that the loving couple, Livia and Candius, marry under the unconscious benisons
of their parents. The trick being discovered, there is general trouble, especially at the exposure
of the hitherto concealed imbecility of Accius and Silena; but a certain woman, Vicina, now
comes forward, with her two children, Maestius and Serena, to explain that the imbeciles are
really her own offspring and that the son and daughter of Memphio and Stellio are Maestius
and Serena. The willing alliance of these two brings the original plans to a happy conclusion.
Mother Bombie herself is a fortune-teller to whom recourse is had at various times by the young
folk, and whose oracular statements provide mysterious clues to the final events.

As a consequence of the meaner nature of its characters this play is less tainted with euphuism
than the rest, while its dialogue is as lively as ever, the four servants finding in their
masters excellent foils to practise their wit upon. Deception and cross purposes are conducted
with much skill to their conclusion, though the elaborate balance of households rather oppresses
one by its artificiality. As one of the earliest Comedies of Intrigue, if not actually the
first, it presents possibilities in that direction which were eagerly developed by later writers.
Thus again we observe the originality of the author preparing the way for his successors.

In summing up the contributions of Lyly to drama we naturally lay stress upon three points,
namely, his creation of lively prose dialogue, his uplifting of comedy from the level of coarse
humour and buffoonery to the region of high comedy and wit, and his painting of pure romantic
love. We attach value, also, to his discovery of the dramatic possibilities of sex disguises,
to his introduction of fairies upon the stage, to his persistence in the good fashion of interspersing
songs amongst the scenes, and to his use of pastoralism as a background for romance. Nor may
his efforts in Comedy of Intrigue be overlooked. On the other hand, we lament as a grievous
failing his inability to draw real men and women, or indeed to differentiate his characters
at all except by gross caricature or the copying of traditional eccentricities. Sir Tophas
and Diogenes we remember as distinct personalities only for their peculiar and very obvious
traits: the rest of his characters either stay in our memory solely through the charm of particular
scenes in which they take part, or fade from it altogether. As less regrettable faults, because
hardly avoidable if euphuism was to bring its benefits, may be remembered the weakness of his
plots (notably in Campaspe, Sapho and Phao and Mydas), the stilted, flowery talk that does
duty for so many conversations, and the unreality brought in the train of his dearly-loved
Greek mythology. Not unfittingly we may conclude our criticism of his plays with his own description
of his art, given in the first prologue to Sapho and Phao.

     Our intent was at this time to move inward delight, not outward
     lightness, and to breed (if it might be) soft smiling, not loud
     laughing; knowing it to the wise to be as great pleasure to hear
     counsel mixed with wit, as to the foolish to have sport mingled
     with rudeness. They were banished the theatre of Athens, and from
     Rome hissed, that brought parasites on the stage with apish
     actions, or fools with uncivil habits, or courtesans with immodest
     words. We have endeavoured to be as far from unseemly speeches, to
     make your ears glow, as we hope you will be free from unkind
     reports, to make our cheeks blush.

       *       *       *       *       *

Unlike Lyly, Robert Greene is the dramatizer of actions rather than speeches. Primarily a writer
of romances, he carries the same principle with him to the stage, providing a throng of characters
and an abundance of incident, with rapid transition from place to place, regardless of time
and the technicalities of acts and scenes. The result is a continuous flow of pictures, in
subject darting about from one set of characters to another lest any section of the narrative
drag behind the rest, hardly ever dull yet rarely impressive, bearing the complexity of many
issues to its appointed end in general content. This is plot-structure in its elementary yet
ambitious form: an abounding wealth of material is condensed within the limits of a play, but
its arrangement reveals no attempt at a gradual and subtle evolution of events to a climax.
It succeeds in maintaining interest by its variety, leaving the pleased spectator with the
sense of having looked on at a number of very entertaining scenes. Unfortunately the bustle
of action invites superficiality of treatment: the end is attained by the use of bold splashes
of colour rather than by accurate drawing. Spaniards, Italians, Turks, Moors fill the stage
like a pageant; in the best known play, Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay, magicians perform wonders,
country squires kill each other for love, prince and fool exchange places, simple folk go a-fairing,
kings pay state visits, devils fly off with people, all to hold the eye by their rapidly interchanging
diversity; but few of them pause to be painted in detail as individuals. Only the women steal
from the author's gift-box a few qualities not hackneyed by other writers, and, decked in these,
make rich return by bestowing upon their master a reputation which no other part of his work
could have won for him.

Probably we have not all the plays that Greene wrote. Evidence points to the loss of his earlier
ones. Those preserved are (the order is approximately that in which they were written)--Alphonsus,
King of Arragon, A Looking-Glass for London and England, Orlando Furioso, Friar Bacon and Friar
Bungay, James the Fourth, and George-a-Greene, the Pinner of Wakefield. The authorship of the
last is not certain, and that of the second was shared with Lodge. With regard to the dates
it is hardly safe to be more definite than to allot them to the period 1587-92. In all we see
a preference for ready-made stories. The writer rarely invents a plot, choosing instead to
dramatize the history, romance, epic or ballad of another. Where he does invent, as in the
love plot in Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay, the result is notable. Blank verse is his medium,
but in all except the first prose is freely used for the speech of the uncultured persons.
Most of the verse is quite good, modelled on the form of Marlowe's; it is commonly least satisfactory
where the imitation is most deliberate. The prose, adopted from Lyly's 'servants' and 'pages',
not from his courtly 'goddesses', is clear and vigorous. Euphuism asserts itself occasionally
in the verse, and the affectation of scholarship, customary in that day, is responsible for
a superabundance of classical allusions in unexpected places.

Since Greene was at first much under the influence of Marlowe it is necessary to say something
here of that dramatist's work. For a full consideration of the essential qualities of Marlowe
the reader must be asked to wait. Perhaps he has already discovered them in the ordinary course
of his reading, for Marlowe is too widely known to need introduction through any text-book.
Briefly, Tamburlaine--the play which made the greatest impression on the playwrights of its
time--may be described as a magniloquent account of the career of a world-conqueror whose resistless
triumph over kingdoms and potentates, signalized by acts of monstrous insolence, provides excuse
for outbursts of extravagant vainglory. Such a description is intended to indicate the traditional
Marlowesque qualities: it is a very inadequate criticism of the play as a whole. This kind
of loud, richly coloured drama leapt into instant popularity, and it was in direct imitation
of it that Greene wrote the first of the plays credited to him.

Alphonsus, King of Arragon, shares with James the Fourth the distinction of a division into
five acts, and adheres throughout to blank verse. Alphonsus, the conqueror, begins his career
as an exiled claimant to the throne of Arragon. Fighting as a common soldier, under an agreement
that he shall hold all he wins, he slays the Spanish usurper in battle and at once demands
the crown. On this being granted him he as promptly turns upon the donor to claim from him
feudal homage. This, however, can only be insisted upon by force, and war ensues, with complete
overthrow of his enemies. Grandly bestowing upon his three chief supporters all his present
conquests, namely, the thrones of Arragon, Naples and Milan, as too trifling for himself, Alphonsus
follows his opponents to their refuge at the court of Amurack, the great Turk. Through a misleading
oracle of Mahomet they rashly engage in battle without their ally and are slain. With their
heads impaled at the corners of his canopy Alphonsus now confronts Amurack, just such another
bold and arrogant conqueror as himself. In the conflict that follows he is temporarily put
to flight by Amurack's daughter, Iphigena, and her band of Amazons; but, smitten with sudden
love, he turns to offer his hand and heart on the battlefield. She spurns his overtures, and
a very ungallant hand-to-hand combat follows, in which he proves victor and drives his lovely
foe to flight in her turn. The conquest is complete, and with all his enemies captives Alphonsus
carries things with a high hand, threatening to add Amurack's head to those on his canopy unless
that monarch consent to his marriage with Iphigena. Fortunately Alphonsus's old father, who
has gained entrance in a pilgrim's garb, intervenes with parental remonstrance and by the exercise
of a little tact brings about both the marriage and general happiness.

A noticeable feature, which shows the closeness of the imitation, is the absence of all intentionally
humorous scenes, in spite of Greene's very considerable natural aptitude for comic by-play.
Everywhere the influence of Tamburlaine is markedly visible, in the subject, in particular
scenes, in such staging as the gruesome canopy, and above all in the incessant bombast. Euphuism
also is more pronounced than in his other plays: Venus recites the prologues to the acts. All
the male characters are drawn on the same pattern, in differing degrees according to their
condition, and the two women, Iphigena and her mother, Fausta, are without attractive qualities.
Marlowe, as we know, rarely expended any care on his female characters; Greene, however, proved
capable in his later, independent plays, of very different work. Utter disregard of normal
conceptions of time and distance produces occasional confusion in the reader's mind as to his
supposed imaginary whereabouts. From almost every point of view, then, the play is a poor production.
A redeeming trait is the occasional vigour of the verse. For an illustrative passage one may
turn to the meeting of Alphonsus and Amurack:

      Amurack. Why, proud Alphonsus, think'st thou Amurack,
    Whose mighty force doth terrify the gods,
    Can e'er be found to turn his heels and fly
    Away for fear from such a boy as thou?
    No, no! Although that Mars this mickle while
    Hath fortified thy weak and feeble arm,
    And Fortune oft hath view'd with friendly face
    Thy armies marching victors from the field,
    Yet at the presence of high Amurack
    Fortune shall change, and Mars, that god of might,
    Shall succour me, and leave Alphonsus quite.

      Alphonsus. Pagan, I say, thou greatly art deceiv'd.
    I clap up Fortune in a cage of gold,
    To make her turn her wheel as I think best;
    And as for Mars, whom you do say will change,
    He moping sits behind the kitchen door,
    Prest[54] at command of every scullion's mouth,
    Who dares not stir, nor once to move a whit,
    For fear Alphonsus then should stomach[55] it.

A Looking-Glass for London and England shows less bondage to
Tamburlaine, but falls into a worse error by a recurrence to the
deliberate didacticism of the old Moralities. The lessons for London,
drawn from the sins of Nineveh, are formally and piously announced by
the prophets Oseas and Jonas after the exposure of each offence. Devoid
of any proper plot, the play merely brings together various incidents to
exhibit such social evils as usury, legal corruption, filial
ingratitude, friction between master and servant. Intermingled, with
only the slightest connexion, are the widely different stories of King
Rasni's amours, of the thirsty career of a drunken blacksmith, and of
the prophet Jonah--his disobedience, strange sea-journey, mission in
Nineveh and subsequent ill-temper being set forth in full. Vainglorious
Rasni talks like Alphonsus, and his ladies are even less charming than
Iphigena. Ramilia boasts as outrageously as her brother, and is only
prevented by sudden death from an incestuous union with him; Alvida,
after poisoning her first husband to secure Rasni, shamelessly attempts
to woo the King of Cilicia. Quite the most successful character, perhaps
the most amusing of all Greene's clowns, is Adam, the blacksmith. His
loyal defence of his trade against derogatory aspersions, his rare
drunkenness, his detection and beating of the practical joker who comes
disguised as a devil to carry him off like a Vice on his back, his
tactful replenishings of his cup at the king's table, and his
dissemblings to avoid being discovered in possession of food during the
fast are most entertaining. Poor fellow, he ends on the gallows, but
goes to his death with a stout heart and a full stomach. No better
example is needed of the prose which Greene puts into the mouths of his
low characters than that which Adam uses. [Puts them back into
     his slops.

     Second Searcher. The sign of the more grace.--But stay! here sits
     one, methinks, at his prayers; let us see who it is.

Orlando Furioso, a dramatized version of an incident in Ariosto's poem, need not delay us long.
It is the story of Orlando's madness (due to jealousy) and the sufferings of innocent, patient
Angelica. In this heroine we have the first of several pictures from the author's hand of a
gentle, constant, ill-used maiden, but she is very little seen. Most of the play is taken up
with warfare, secret enmities, and Orlando's madness. The evil genius, Sacripant, may be the
first, as Iago is the greatest, of that school of villains whose treachery finds expression
in the deliberate undermining of true love by forged proofs of infidelity. There is less rodomontade
than in the previous plays, but again we have to record an absence of humour. In the following
lines Orlando is meditating on his love:

    Fair queen of love, thou mistress of delight,
    Thou gladsome lamp that wait'st on Phoebe's train,
    Spreading thy kindness through the jarring orbs
    That, in their union, praise thy lasting powers;
    Thou that hast stay'd the fiery Phlegon's course,
    And mad'st the coachman of the glorious wain
    To droop, in view of Daphne's excellence;
    Fair pride of morn, sweet beauty of the even,
    Look on Orlando languishing in love.
    Sweet solitary groves, whereas the Nymphs
    With pleasance laugh to see the Satyrs play,
    Witness Orlando's faith unto his love.
    Tread she these lawnds, kind Flora, boast thy pride:
    Seek she for shade, spread, cedars, for her sake:
    Fair Flora, make her couch amidst thy flowers:
    Sweet crystal springs,
    Wash ye with roses when she longs to drink.
    Ah, thought, my heaven! ah, heaven, that knows my thought!
    Smile, joy in her that my content hath wrought.

Hitherto Greene had yielded to the popular demand for plays of the Tamburlaine class, full
of oriental colour and martial sound, with titanic heroes and a generous supply of kings, queens,
and great captains: no less than twenty crowned heads compete for places on the list of dramatis
personae in his first three plays. The character of Angelica, however, and stray touches of
pastoralism in the last play, hint at an impending change. The author's mind, tired of subservience,
was beginning to trace out for itself new paths, leading him from camps to the fresh countryside.
To the end Greene retained his kings, possibly for their spectacular effect. But he abandoned
warfare as a theme.

Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay was written under the new inspiration. We have already referred
to the motley nature of this drama. No other of the writer's plays exhibits so many and such
rapid changes of scene, some situations actually demanding the presentation of two scenes at
the same time. In spite of this the different sections of the story remain tolerably clear
as we proceed, and the interest never flags for longer than the brief minutes when prosy Oxford
dons talk learnedly. Four groups of characters attract attention in turn; the young noblemen
and Margaret, the three kings and the Spanish princess, the country yokels and squires, and
the magicians. By careful interweaving all four groups are related to one another and none
but the Margaret plot is permitted to develop any complexity. In this way something like unity
is attained.

The play begins with Prince Edward in love with the country girl, Margaret of Fressingfield.
He, Earl Lacy, and others have taken refreshment at her father's farm after a hunt, and the
prince has fallen a captive to her beauty and simplicity. It is decided that a double attack
must be made upon her heart, Prince Edward invoking the magic aid of Bacon, while Lacy stays
behind to woo her on his behalf. Lacy's part is not easy. Disguised as a farmer he meets Margaret
at a village fair and does his best to plead for 'the courtier all in green', only to be himself
pierced by the arrow that struck his prince. When, therefore, Prince Edward arrives at the
friar's cell and peers into his marvellous crystal, he sees Lacy and Margaret exchanging declarations
of love, with Friar Bungay standing by ready to wed them. The power of Friar Bacon prevents
the ceremony by whisking his cowled brother away, and the furious prince hurries back to Fressingfield.
He is resolved to slay Lacy; nor does that remorseful earl ask for other treatment; Margaret,
however, offers so brave and noble a defence of her lover, taking all blame upon herself and
avowing that his death will be instantly followed by her own, that at length more generous
impulses rise in the royal breast, and instead of death a blessing is bestowed. Together the
prince and the earl repair to Oxford to meet the King, the Emperor of Germany, the King of
Castile, and the latter's daughter, Elinor, who is to be Prince Edward's wife. In their absence
other admirers appear upon the scene, a squire and a farmer being rivals for Margaret's hand.
Quarrelling over the matter, they put it to the test of a duel and kill each other. By an unhappy
coincidence their absent sons are looking into Bacon's magic crystal at that very time, and,
seeing the fatal consequences of the conflict, turn their weapons hastily against each other,
with the result that their fathers' fate becomes theirs. Margaret remains loyal to Lacy, but
mischief prompts the latter to send her one hundred pounds and a letter of dismissal on the
plea of a wealthier match being necessary for him. Unhappy Margaret, rejecting the money, prepares
to enter a convent. Fortunately Lacy himself comes down to set matters in order for their marriage
before she has taken the vows, and though his second wooing is done in a very peremptory, cavalier
fashion, she returns to his arms. Their wedding is celebrated on the same day as that of Prince
Edward and Elinor of Castile.--Independent of this romance, but linked to it through the person
of Prince Edward, are the visit of the kings to Oxford, the wonder-workings of Friar Bacon,
and the mischievous fooling of such light-headed persons as the king's jester, Ralph Simnell,
and the friar's servant, Miles. Friar Bacon's power is exercised in the spiriting hither and
thither of desirable and undesirable folk, the most notable victim being a much vaunted and
self-confident German magician who has been brought over by the emperor to outshine his English
rivals. There is some fun when Miles is set to watch for the first utterance of the mysterious
brazen head, and, delaying to wake his master, lets the supreme moment pass unused. The curses
which this mistake calls upon him from Friar Bacon bring about his ultimate removal to hell
on a devil's back.

Here then is a slight but charming story of romance, supported through the length of a whole
play by all the adventitious aids which Greene can command. One of the minor characters, Ralph
Simnell, invites passing notice as the rough sketch of a type which Shakespeare afterwards
perfected, the Court Fool: his jesting questions and answers may be compared with those of
Feste in Twelfth Night. Disguised as the prince, to conceal the identity of the real prince
at Oxford, he is served by the merry nobles and proves himself humorously unprincely. But that
which has given most fame to the author is the love-plot. The Fressingfield scenes bring upon
the stage a direct picture of simple country life--of a dairy-maid among her cheeses, butter
and cream, and of a country fair with farm-lads eager to buy fairings for their lassies. Unfortunately,
under the influence of the fashionable affectation, Margaret is unusually learned in Greek
mythology, citing Jove, Danaë, Phoebus, Latona and Mercury within the compass of a bare five
lines. The indebtedness of Greene to Lyly's Campaspe for the idea of a simple love romance
as plot has been acknowledged. In the use of pastoralism, too, he borrowed a hint, perhaps,
from Peele. Yet, when both debts have been allowed, the reader of Greene's comedy is still
left with the conviction that his author had the secret of it all in himself. He had a hint
from others, but he needed no more.

Our quotations illustrate the story of Margaret.

     (1)

     [Enter PRINCE EDWARD malcontented, with LACY, WARREN, &c.]

      Lacy. Why looks my lord like to a troubled sky
    When heaven's bright shine is shadow'd with a fog?
    Alate we ran the deer, and through the lawnds
    Stripp'd with our nags the lofty frolic bucks
    That scudded 'fore the teasers like the wind:
    Ne'er was the deer of merry Fressingfield
    So lustily pull'd down by jolly mates,
    Nor shar'd the farmers such fat venison,
    So frankly dealt, this hundred years before;
    Nor have
    I seen my lord more frolic in the chase,--
    And now chang'd to a melancholy dump.

      Warren. After the prince got to the Keeper's lodge,
    And had been jocund in the house awhile,
    Tossing off ale and milk in country cans,
    Whether it was the country's sweet content,
    Or else the bonny damsel fill'd us drink
    That seem'd so stately in her stammel red,
    Or that a qualm did cross his stomach then,
    But straight he fell into his passions.

        .    .    .    .    .    .

      P. Edward. Tell me, Ned Lacy, didst thou mark the maid,
    How lovely in her country-weeds she look'd?
    A bonnier wench all Suffolk cannot yield:
    All Suffolk! nay, all England holds none such....
    Whenas she swept like Venus through the house,
    And in her shape fast folded up my thoughts,
    Into the milk-house went I with the maid,
    And there amongst the cream-bowls she did shine
    As Pallas 'mongst her princely huswifery:
    She turn'd her smock over her lily arms
    And div'd them into milk to run her cheese;
    But whiter than the milk her crystal skin,
    Checkéd with lines of azure, made her blush
    That art or nature durst bring for compare.

     (2)

     [Prince Edward stands with his poniard in his hand: LACY and
     MARGARET.]

      Margaret. 'Twas I, my lord, not Lacy stept awry:
    For oft he su'd and courted for yourself,
    And still woo'd for the courtier all in green;
    But I, whom fancy made but over-fond,
    Pleaded myself with looks as if I lov'd;
    I fed mine eye with gazing on his face,
    And still bewitch'd lov'd Lacy with my looks;
    My heart with sighs, mine eyes pleaded with tears,
    My face held pity and content at once,
    And more I could not cipher-out by signs
    But that I lov'd Lord Lacy with my heart....
    What hopes the prince to gain by Lacy's death?

      P. Edward. To end the loves 'twixt him and Margaret.

      Margaret.
    That death shall make a discord of our thoughts?
    No, stab the earl, and, 'fore the morning sun
    Shall vaunt him thrice over the lofty east,
    Margaret will meet her Lacy in the heavens.

James the Fourth is not, as the title seems to indicate, a chronicle history play. It is the
story of that king's love for Ida, the daughter of the Countess of Arran, and of the consequent
unhappiness of his young queen, Dorothea. Technically it is Greene's most perfect play, being
carefully divided into acts and scenes, and containing a plot ample enough to dispense with
much of that extraneous matter which obscured his former plays. An amusing stratum of comic
by-play underlies the main story without interfering with it. Nevertheless the central details
are unattractive, presenting intrigue rather than romance, so that the effect is less pleasing
than that of the previous comedy.

In the hour of the Scottish monarch's union with Dorothea, daughter of the English king, his
wandering eyes fall upon and become enamoured of Ida, who is standing by amongst the ladies
of the court. With dissembling lips he bids farewell to his new father-in-law; then, alone,
soliloquizes on his own wretchedness. Ateukin, a poor, unscrupulous and ambitious courtier,
overhears him and offers his services, which are accepted. Ateukin, accordingly, makes overtures
to Ida, but without success. Returning, he persuades the king to sanction the murder of his
queen, to be accomplished by the French hireling, Jaques. By accident the warrant for her death
comes into the possession of a friend of hers, who prevails upon her to flee into hiding, disguised
as a man and accompanied by her dwarf. They are followed, however, by Jaques, who, after stabbing
her, returns to announce the news to Ateukin. The latter informs the king and at once sets
out to secure Ida's acceptance of her royal suitor, only to find her already married to a worthy
knight, Eustace. Aware of the consequences to himself of failure he flees the country. Meanwhile
Queen Dorothea, who was not mortally wounded, is successfully tended in a hospitable castle,
her disguise remaining undiscovered. This produces a temporary difficulty, the lady of the
castle falling in love with her knightly patient; but that trouble is soon removed, without
leaving any harm behind. The King of England invades Scotland on behalf of his ill-used daughter;
a reward is offered for her recovery; and on the eve of battle she appears as a peacemaker.
Happiness crowns the story.

The interest and value of the play lies in the two characters, Ida and Dorothea. In the outline
given above small space is assigned to the former because her part is almost entirely confined
to minor scenes in which she and her mother talk together over their fancy-work, and Eustace
pays successful court for her hand. But by her purity and maidenly reserve she merits our attention.
It is a pity that her virtue makes her rather dull and prosaic. Dorothea's adventures in disguise
show Greene profiting perhaps by the example of Peele, although the loss of so many contemporary
plays warns us against naming models too definitely. The popularity of disguised girls in later
drama and their appearance in the works of Peele, Lyly and Greene, point to their having been
early accepted as favourites whenever an author sought for an easy addition to the entanglement
of his plot. Faithful love in the face of desertion and cruelty is the dominant note in Dorothea's
character as it was in that of Angelica.--Slipper and Nano, two dwarf brothers, engaged as
attendants respectively on Ateukin and Queen Dorothea, provide most of the humour. More worthy
of note are Oberon, King of the Fairies, and Bohan, the embittered Scotch recluse, who together
provide an Induction to the play. We are reminded of the Induction to The Taming of the Shrew.
Ben Jonson also makes use of this device. In this particular Induction the story of James the
Fourth is supposed to be played before Oberon to illustrate the reason of Bohan's disgust with
the world; but these two persons recur several times to round off the acts with fairy dances
and dumb shows, which have no reference to the main play. In Greene's verse we discover a half-hearted
return to rhyme, passages in it, and even odd couplets, being interspersed plentifully through
his blank verse.

To make amends for our slight notice of Ida in the outline of the play we select our illustration
from a scene in that lady's home.

     [The COUNTESS OF ARRAN and IDA discovered in their porch,
     sitting at work.]

      Countess. Fair Ida, might you choose the greatest good,
    Midst all the world in blessings that abound,
    Wherein, my daughter, should your liking be?

      Ida. Not in delights, or pomp, or majesty.

      Countess. And why?

      Ida. Since these are means to draw the mind
    From perfect good, and make true judgment blind.

      Countess. Might you have wealth and Fortune's richest store?

      Ida. Yet would I, might I choose, be honest-poor:
    For she that sits at Fortune's feet a-low
    Is sure she shall not taste a further woe,
    But those that prank on top of Fortune's ball
    Still fear a change, and, fearing, catch a fall.

      Countess. Tut, foolish maid, each one contemneth need.

      Ida. Good reason why, they know not good indeed.

      Countess. Many, marry, then, on whom distress doth lour.

      Ida. Yes, they that virtue deem an honest dower.
    Madam, by right this world I may compare
    Unto my work, wherein with heedful care
    The heavenly workman plants with curious hand,
    As I with needle draw each thing on land,
    Even as he list: some men like to the rose
    Are fashion'd fresh; some in their stalks do close,
    And, born, do sudden die; some are but weeds,
    And yet from them a secret good proceeds:
    I with my needle, if I please, may blot
    The fairest rose within my cambric plot;
    God with a beck can change each worldly thing,
    The poor to rich, the beggar to the king.
    What, then, hath man wherein he well may boast,
    Since by a beck he lives, a lour is lost?

      Countess. Peace, Ida, here are strangers near at hand.

When Greene surrendered the attractions of sanguinary warfare and the panoplied splendour of
conquerors to treat of the pursuit of love in peace he descended from the exclusive ranks of
high-born lords and ladies to the company of simple working folk, presenting a farmer's daughter,
winsome, loving and virtuous, and worthy to become the wife of an earl. This aspect of the
Fressingfield romance must have had a special appeal for those of his audiences who stood outside
the pale of wealth and aristocracy. An earlier bid for their applause has been seen in the
figure of the blacksmith, Adam, whose sturdy defence of his trade was referred to when we discussed
A Looking-Glass for London and England. If Greene wrote George-a-Greene, the Pinner of Wakefield,
and there is a strong probability that he did, he carried forward the glorification of the
lower classes, in this play, to its furthest point.

It is a hearty yeoman play; the time represented, the reign of one of the Edwards. The plot
revolves about the rebellion of an Earl of Kendal. The principal figure is just such a stout
typical hero of a countryside as Robin Hood himself, but more law-abiding. His rough honest
loyalty is up in arms at once on the least disrespect to the crown. When Sir Nicholas Mannering,
on behalf of the rebel Earl of Kendal, insolently demands a contribution of provisions from
Wakefield, George tears up his commission and makes him swallow the three seals. By craft--being
disguised as a hermit-seer--he takes prisoner Kendal and another nobleman, and so single-handed
crushes the rebellion. About the same time the ally of Kendal, James of Scotland, is captured
by another country hero, Musgrove, a veteran of great renown but no less in age than 'five
score and three'. Thus the yeomen prove their superiority over traitor nobles. But George has
other affairs to manage. Fair Bettris, who runs away from a disagreeable father to join him,
suddenly refuses to marry him without her father's consent, not easily obtainable in the circumstances.
However a trick overcomes that difficulty too in the end. Meanwhile the fame of the lass excites
the rival jealousy of Maid Marian, who insists on Robin Hood's challenging George's supremacy.
In three single fights Robin's two comrades, Scarlet and Much, are overthrown and Robin himself
is driven to call a halt: his identity being discovered, George treats him with great honour.
In accordance with former practices kings are brought upon the scene. The King of Scotland,
as we have seen, is captured by Musgrove. King Edward of England and his nobles, in disguise,
visit Yorkshire to see the redoubtable George who has crushed the king's rebels. An ancient
custom of 'vailing (trailing) the staff' through Bradford, or, as an alternative, fighting
the shoemakers of that town, produces a laughable episode. The king at first 'vails' at discretion,
but is compelled by George and Robin to adopt a bolder attitude; George then beats all the
shoemakers, who, at the finish, however, recognizing him, award him a hearty welcome. All are
brought to their knees at the revelation of the king's identity, but Edward is merry over the
affair, offering to dub George a knight. This distinction the latter begs to be allowed to
refuse, saying,

    --Let me live and die a yeoman still;
    So was my father, so must live his son.
    For 'tis more credit to men of base degree
    To do great deeds, than men of dignity.

Closing the play the king pays high honour to the worshipful guild of shoemakers.

    And for the ancient custom of Vail staff,
    Keep it still, claim privilege from me:
    If any ask a reason why or how,
    Say, English Edward vail'd his staff to you.

An amount of careless irregularity unusual with Greene is displayed in the verse, pointing
to hasty production. But the whole play is humorous, vigorous and healthy. George's man, Jenkin,
a dull-witted, faint-hearted fellow, is the clown. There is an abundance of incident, though
not the complexity of Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay. We have noticed the historical atmosphere
repeated from that play and from James the Fourth. With regard to the love-plot, Bettris has
only a small part, but in her preference for George above a nobleman who comes wooing her,
and in her simple rank, she is quite like Margaret. Thus, when her titled admirer offers himself,
she sings,

    I care not for earl, nor yet for knight,
      Nor baron that is so bold;
    For George-a-Greene, the merry Pinner,
      He hath my heart in hold.

We select our main extract from the scene in which George, the loyal yeoman, defies Sir Nicholas
Mannering, the traitorous noble, and flouts his commission. Those present include the local
Justice and an assembly of the citizens. George has just pushed his way to the front.

      Mannering (to Justice). See you these seals? before you pass
          the town
    I will have all things my lord doth want,
    In spite of you.

      George. Proud dapper Jack, vail bonnet to the bench
    That represents the person of the king,
    Or, sirrah, I'll lay thy head before thy feet.

      Mannering. Why, who art thou?

      George. Why, I am George-a-Greene,
    True liegeman to my king,
    Who scorns that men of such esteem as these
    Should brook the braves of any traitorous squire.
    You of the bench, and you, my fellow-friends,
    Neighbours, we subjects all unto the king,
    We are English born, and therefore Edward's friends,
    Vow'd unto him even in our mothers' womb,
    Our minds to God, our hearts unto our king;
    Our wealth, our homage, and our carcasses
    Be all King Edward's. Then, sirrah, we
    Have nothing left for traitors but our swords,
    Whetted to bathe them in your bloods, and die
    'Gainst you, before we send you any victuals.

George-a-Greene brings us to the end of Greene's dramatic work. The qualities of that work
have been pointed out as they occurred, but it may be as well to recapitulate them in a final
paragraph. Foremost of all will stand the crowded medley of his plots, filling the stage with
an amount of incident and action which is in striking contrast to Lyly's conversations and
monologues. The public appetite for complex plots was stimulated, but unfortunately very little
progress was made in the art of orderly dramatic arrangement and evolution. Indeed, this feature
of Greene's plays may be thought to have been almost as much a loss as a gain to drama. Its
popularity licensed an indifference on the part of lesser authors to clarity and restraint,
and encouraged the development of those dual plots which are to be found, connected by the
flimsiest bonds, in the works of such men as Dekker and Heywood. To the same influence may
be traced Shakespeare's frequent but skilful use of subordinate plots. For the second quality
of Greene's work we name the charm and purity of his romantic conceptions. The fresh air of
his pastoralism, the virtue, constancy and patience of his heroines, entitle him to an honourable
position among the writers who have reached success by this path. Thirdly, but of equal importance,
is his sympathetic presentment of men and women of the middle and lower classes; he was here
an innovator, and some of our most pathetic dramas may be traced ultimately to his example.
His admirable 'low comedy' scenes, on the other hand, though they prove their author to have
been gifted with considerable humour, merely continued the practice of Lyly, as his rant and
noisy warfare echoed the thunder of Marlowe. The general soundness, even occasional excellence,
of his verse and prose must be allowed to be largely his own.

       *       *       *       *       *

George Peele has left behind him a name associated with sweetness of versification and graceful
pastoralism. When, however, we try to recall other features of his work, the men and women
of his creation, or scenes from his plots, we find our memory strangely indistinct. It is not
easy at first to see why; but probably the cause is in his lack of strong individuality. He
had not the gift of his greater contemporaries of throwing vitality into his work. When they
took up an old story they entered into possession of it, creating fresh scenes and introducing
new and effective actors; above all, in their most successful productions, they grasped the
necessity of having one or more clearly defined figures, which, by their strongly human appeal,
or their exaggerated traits, should grip the attention of the spectators with unforgettable
force. Marlowe was the supreme master of this art; Diogenes, Sir Tophas, Margaret of Fressingfield,
Queen Dorothea, and others are examples of what Lyly and Greene could do. The same vitality
is visible in their best known plots and scenes. Apelles loved Campaspe long ago in the pages
of history, and was forgotten there; Lyly made him woo and win her again, and now their home
is for ever between the covers of his little volume. Greene tells the story of Earl Lacy's
love for Margaret, and the details of that delightfully human romance return to us whenever
his name is mentioned. But what characters or scenes spring up to proclaim Peele's authorship?
He dramatized the narrative of Absalom's rebellion, and, as soon as the end of the play is
reached, the theme, with the possible exception of the first scene, slips back, in our minds,
into its old biblical setting; it belongs to the writer of The Book of Samuel, not to Peele.
He wrote a Marlowesque play, similar to Greene's Alphonsus, King of Arragon, but failed to
create out of his several leaders a single dominant figure to compare with Alphonsus. The same
might be said of his Sir Clyomon and Sir Clamydes and his Edward the First; and his Old Wives'
Tale is a by-word for confusion. Only in the sub-plot of The Arraignment of Paris does he present
a character that may be said to owe its permanence in English literature to him. The first
love of Paris is there told so prettily, with so pathetic a presentation of the heart-broken
Oenone, that at once the deserted maiden won a place in English hearts and minds; Tennyson's
poem is an exquisite wreath laid at the foot of the monument raised by Peele to her memory.
On the other hand, the main plot, retelling the old legend of the Apple of Discord, is painted
in the same neutral tints as coloured his other plays. Such slight distinction as it may have
it draws from association with a matter of extraneous interest, the conversion of the action
into an elaborate compliment to Queen Elizabeth; the goddesses, and Paris in his relation to
them, gain nothing at his hands, while Hobbinol, Diggon and Thenot are the dullest of shepherds.
Unapt for witty or clownish dialogue, Peele rarely attempts, as Lyly and Greene did, to give
fresh piquancy to an old story by the addition of subordinate humorous episodes; when he does,
as in Edward the First, the result can hardly be termed a success.

Peele's eminence as a dramatist, then, must be sought for in the two features of his work mentioned
in our opening sentence, namely, sweetness of versification and graceful pastoralism. Of these
the latter is found only in a single play, The Arraignment of Paris, and is one of the few
products of the author's originality. Lyly was possibly indebted to it for the background and
minor figures of certain scenes in Gallathea, and Greene may have owed something to its influence.
Certainly neither dramatist ever equalled its delicate descriptions of passive Nature.[56]
The preponderance of mythology, however, the dearth of real human beings, the unnaturalness
permitted to invade nature--so that even the flowers are grouped, as in an absurd parterre,
to represent the forms of goddesses--make Peele's pastoralism, despite the undeniable charm
of many passages, inferior to Greene's representation of English country life.

Turning next to his verse, we recognize that it is here above all that his excellence is to
be found. Nevertheless a word of caution is needed. So many of his readers have been charmed
by his verse that it seems almost a pity to remind them that he wrote more than two plays,
and that the same brain that composed the favourite passages in David and Bethsabe also produced
quantities of very indifferent poetry in other dramas. Sir Clyomon and Sir Clamydes is written
in tedious alliterative heptameters. From Edward the First the most ardent admirer of Peele
would be puzzled to find half a dozen speeches meriting quotation. The verse of The Battle
of Alcazar is in all points similar to that of Greene's Marlowesque plays, imitating and falling
short of the same model. In fact Peele's reputation as a versifier rests almost entirely on
the contents of those two plays which most students of his work read, The Arraignment of Paris
and David and Bethsabe. Of the first it may be said boldly, without fear of contradiction,
that, considered metrically, the verse is unsuited to ordinary drama. The arbitrary and constantly
changing use of heroic couplet, blank verse (pentameters), rhyming heptameters, alternate heptameters
and hexameters rhyming together, and the swift transition from one form to another in the same
speech, possibly help towards the lyrical effect aimed at; the nature of the plot licenses
a deviation from the ordinary dramatic rules; but such metric irresponsibility would be out
of place in any ordinary play. There is a rare daintiness in some of the lines; they are truly
poetic; but we must remember that goddesses and the legendary dwellers about Mount Ida may
be permitted to speak in a language which would be condemned as an affectation among folk of
commoner clay. Setting these objections aside--though they are important, as demonstrating
the limited amount of Peele's widely praised dramatic verse--we may offer one general criticism
of the verse of both plays. The best lines and passages charm us by their exquisite finish,
their seductive rhythm and imagery, not by their thought. Sometimes the warm glow of his patriotism,
which was his most sincere emotion, inspired verses that move us; noble lines will be found
in Edward the First and The Battle of Alcazar, as well as in the better known conclusion to
The Arraignment of Paris. But we may look in vain through his dramas for lines like those quoted
on an earlier page from Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay (beginning, 'Why, thinks King Henry's
son'), or these, placed in the mouth of Queen Dorothea, repudiating the idea of revenge:

    As if they kill not me, who with him fight!
    As if his breast be touch'd, I am not wounded!
    As if he wail'd, my joys were not confounded!
    We are one heart, though rent by hate in twain;
    One soul, one essence doth our weal contain:
    What, then, can conquer him, that kills not me?[57]

For the sake of comparison with these two passages let us quote the famous piece from David
and Bethsabe.

    Now comes my lover tripping like the roe,
    And brings my longings tangled in her hair.
    To joy[58] her love I'll build a kingly bower,
    Seated in hearing of a hundred streams,
    That, for their homage to her sovereign joys,
    Shall, as the serpents fold into their nests
    In oblique turnings, wind their nimble waves
    About the circles of her curious walks;
    And with their murmur summon easeful sleep
    To lay his golden sceptre on her brows.

This has the charms of melody and graceful fancy; it is of the poetry of Tennyson's Lotos Eaters
without the message. The others have the energy of thought, of passion; they do not soothe
the ear as do Peele's verses, but they strike the deeper chords of the human heart. None of
the three passages should be taken as fairly representing its author's normal style, but the
contrast illustrates the essential nature of the difference between the work of Peele and Greene.

The reader who agrees with what has been said above will be prepared to acknowledge that Peele
must stand below Greene, at least, in the ranks of dramatists. Strength and individuality are
the life-blood of successful drama, and these he lacked. Yet he merits the fame awarded to
his group. He was a poet; the refinement, the music, the gentler attributes of his best verse
were a valuable contribution to the drama; his sweetness joined hands with Marlowe's energy
in helping to drive from the stage, as impossible, the rude irregular lines that had previously
satisfied audiences.

It has been claimed that he was also, to some extent, an artist in plot-structure. The mingle-mangle
of scarcely connected incidents which did duty with Greene for a plot, the irrepressible by-play
with which Lyly loved to interrupt his main story, were rejected by him. Edward the First is
an exception; in his best plays he achieved a certain dignified directness and simplicity.
But he was as incapable as Greene of concentration upon one point, or of working up the interest
to an impending catastrophe. He was content with chronological order for his guide; his directness
is the directness of the Chronicle History. The Battle of Alcazar and David and Bethsabe follow
this method as completely as his avowedly chronicle play, Edward the First. It is a strange
thing how plot-structure fell into abeyance in comedy after its long and strenuous evolution
through the Interludes to Ralph Roister Doister and Gammer Gurton's Needle. We must confess,
however reluctantly, that those early plays set an example in unity and concentration of interest
that was never surpassed by any of the comedies of the University Wits. Lyly may be said to
have come nearest to it, though, handicapped by a passing affectation, he could never excite
the same degree of interest. Greene's plots lack unity, and Peele's emphasis. We have to wait
for Shakespeare before we can see comedy raised above the architectural standard set by Nicholas
Udall.

The list of Peele's plays, in approximate order of time, is as follows: The Arraignment of
Paris (1584), Sir Clyomon and Sir Clamydes (printed 1599), Edward the First (printed 1593),
The Battle of Alcazar (printed 1594), The Old Wive's Tale (printed 1595), David and Bethsabe
(printed 1599).

The Arraignment of Paris sets forth, in five acts, the old Greek tale of Paris, the three goddesses,
and the golden apple. Juno, Pallas and Venus graciously condescend to visit the vales of Ida,
and are loyally welcomed by the minor deities of the earth, Flora especially making it her
care that all the countryside shall wear its brightest colours. During their brief stay, Juno
finds the golden apple, inscribed with Detur pulcherrimae. After some dispute Paris is called
upon to give judgment, and awards the prize to Venus. There the Greek tale ends. But Peele
adds an ingenious sequel. Juno and Pallas, indignant at the slight put upon them, appeal against
this decision to a council of the gods. This brings quite a crowd of deities upon the stage,
unable to devise a solution to such a knotty problem of wounded pride. Paris is summoned before
this high court, but clears himself from the charge of unjust partiality. Finally it is agreed
that the arbitrament of Diana shall be invited and accepted as conclusive. She, by a delicate
compromise, satisfies the jealous susceptibilities of the three goddesses by preferring above
them a nymph, Eliza, whose charms surpass their totalled attributes of wealth, wisdom, and
beauty. The story is provided with two under-plots, presenting opposite aspects of rejected
love. In the one, Colin dies for love of disdainful Thestylis, who in her turn dotes despairingly
upon an ugly churl. In the other, Oenone holds and loses the affections of Paris, stolen from
her by the beauty of Venus; this is the most delicate portion of the whole play. Pretty songs
are imbedded in the scenes--Cupid's Curse is a famous one--and many lines of captivating fancy
will be found by an appreciative reader. On a well-furnished stage the valley of Mount Ida,
where Pan, Flora and others of Nature's guardians direct her wild fruitfulness, where shepherds
converse in groups or alone sing their grief to the skies, and Paris and Oenone, seated beneath
a tree, renew their mutual pledges, must have looked very delightful. One cannot help thinking,
however, that the gods and goddesses, probably magnificently arrayed and carrying splendour
wherever they went, seriously detracted from the appearance of free Nature. Nevertheless, by
the poet and the stage-manager they were, doubtless, prized equally with the rural background
and the shepherds, perhaps even more than they. To them is given pre-eminence in the play.
Indeed, what particularly impresses any one who remembers the stage as he reads, is the watchful
provision for spectacular effect in every scene. It is this, combined with the author's choice
of subject and characters, which has led to the comparison of this comedy with a Masque. The
resemblance, too manifest to be overlooked, gives an additional interest to a play which thus
is seen to hold something like an intermediary position between drama proper and that other,
infinitely more ornate, form of court entertainment. Viewing it in this light, we are no longer
surprised to read, in a stage direction at the close, that Diana 'delivers the ball of gold
to the Queen's own hand'. After all, the play, like a Masque, is little more than an exaggerated
and richly designed compliment, the most beautiful of its kind. In selecting suitable extracts
one is drawn from scene to scene, uncertain which deserves preference. The two offered here
illustrate respectively the tuneful variety of Peele's verse and the delicate embroidery of
Diana's famous decision.

     (1)

     [JUNO bribes PARIS to award her the apple.]

      Juno.

     [JUNO'S Show. A Tree of Gold rises, laden with diadems and crowns
     of gold.]

