So it was agreed, greatly to the little boys' disgust, that we must try some experiments to
make them know they had friends on the island. They declared that if we lost so much time they
might both be eaten up before they could rescue them, and that it ought to be tried to-night.
Not being so alarmed as the boys about the eating part of the business, the commander-in-chief
merely ordered out a couple of scouts, who, from their practical knowledge of the country,
knew the best places to drop little bits of paper, on which was written in English the following
Notice:--

"If the prisoners would like to hear of something to their advantage, let them burn a light
some night when communication can be uninterrupted and convenient, and to shew that they and
only they have got this notice, let them tie something white round each arm."

We wrote in English, because we knew that the pirates understood French.

Gatty and Jenny were the two scouts, and we were very uneasy until they returned, which they
did after two hours absence in the night. We diligently watched all that day, but saw no signs
of the white mark on the prisoners' arms, though one was kept working hard in the very course
where some of the billet doux were placed. The other we supposed was ill, as he did not appear
until evening, when supported by the one we had seen all day. They retired together to a ledge
of rocks by themselves, and seemed to hold earnest communion. One wrung his hands and seemed
in the greatest grief, which made the children half-wild to get at them, to whisper comfort
and release. Three days passed and no white sign, though every day they sat in the evening
by themselves in this spot, and always secured in the utmost sorrow. We agreed we must put
a billet doux there, if another day passed without the sign, though it was dangerously near
Pirate Hall. In the meantime they were villainously used and ill-treated by the pirates, besides
very hardly worked, so that they sometimes staggered and fell down from the weights they had
to carry. Our indignation was great, and, like an impatient army as we were, we implored the
commander in chief to give the word of march. We longed to hear him say "Up, guards, and at
them." But that very evening surely we saw the white sign. It was true, indeed; how pleased
we were. And then the delightful hope that they must be English was nearly confirmed, and showed
how all our secret hopes and wishes had been in unison. This added to our zest in a wonderful
manner. But now such a row, everybody wanted to go to the rescue, and it became a matter of
difficulty to quell the military ardour of the army.

It was arranged that Schillie was to go first, with a rope in her hand, I was to follow holding
the end of hers and the beginning of another, Oscar ditto, Jenny ditto, Gatty, Serena, Felix,
Sybil, Zoë, Madame, Winny, Lilly, Hargrave the last. So that we were all linked together, and
had a regular chain of communication. Any danger in front was indicated by pull of the ropes.
And then it was to be "Sauve qui pent." Thus the whole army was employed, and we were not likely
to lose our way home, as the line extended so far that Hargrave would be close at home. The
only risk we ran was, that, to enable us to perform this manœuvre, we had to go out at the
Cartref Pellenig entrance, which we had in consequence to pull down and open for the first
time in four months. However, we trusted to our good cause, and the fact that the entrance
was at all times difficult to find, and would not take half an hour to put to rights again.
But this notable plan was to depend in a great measure whereabouts the signal light would be
placed.

When it was quite dark, we looked out with beating hearts. No light. We watched and waited
half an hour; suddenly a light shone for a minute or so, and then darkness again. "That must
certainly be a signal," said we, "however, we will wait another half hour." In less than half
an hour, again a light shone for only a few minutes, and, as far as we could judge, just in
the usual spot where they went every evening to talk by themselves. In fact, the spot where
the before-mentioned manœuvre of our great army was to be executed. So we rushed up the caverns
in a most disorderly manner, and were all ready to obey the word of command in less than ten
minutes at the Cartref Pellenig entrance. To our honour be it spoken, as an army composed of
so many females, not a word was spoken, and we emerged from the entrance as noiselessly as
bats out of an old chimney.

Cautiously we proceeded, keeping close to the rock, so as to feel our way, but had to pass
dangerously near Pirate Hall. We could hear them snoring in sleep; but there were watchers
also, for they were talking noisily in one of the rooms. Now we must pause a moment, in hopes
the light will again shine, and also to still our hearts, if possible, they are beating so
loud. Five minutes passed, Schillie was then going slowly on, when her rope jumped with a start,
so did mine, so I suppose did all the others, and I was sure I recognised the faintest little
scream from Madame. The light shone out all of a sudden, not ten yards from us; it was that
which made us start so. We noted the two men distinctly, and, waiting until the light was out
again, we then advanced, and Schillie touching one and I the other, we took hold of some hard
horny hands, and made the signal by shaking the ropes to return.

Back we went, in rather a hurry-scurry I must allow. As everybody got into the cavern, the
others came rushing in quicker and quicker; Schillie and I alone kept a stately march, holding
the hard horny hands, not a word passing between the delivered and the deliverers; but if gratitude
could be expressed by a grasp, it was done by the hand I held in mine. I had the lame prisoner,
and while the hand trembled in mine like the hand of a timid woman, I felt his hairy mouth
touching it, and the other hand trying in a gentle but earnest manner to feel the arm and as
much of me as he could. He seemed to shake like an aspen leaf, and almost choked with suppressed
emotion. But we are nearer, Gatty is in, Jenny, Oscar, the General slipped by me, and unhandsomely
got in first. Now we were all safe. Jenny, Hargrave, and the girls flew for the torches to
do up the entrance again. We silently led the rescued prisoners to a little cavern, which was
somewhat remote from the others.

Madame brought us a torch, and with acknowledged curiosity we proceeded to examine what were
now our prisoners. Two great hairy men. Why did we start? A deep groan, and an English "God
be thanked" burst from the lips of one as he fell senseless to the ground. The other rushed
to the boys with vehement gesture, and catching both in his arms, uttered a shout that made
the cavern ring again. "Oh, Smart, Smart," said they, "our dear, dear Tom Smart, is it really
you? are you come back for us? are you alive?"

Could this be real? It was indeed too true. The prisoners about whom we had been so anxious,
the poor fellows we had so intuitively been interested in, and determined to risk our lives
to save, were no other than our dear lamented captain and equally beloved Smart. Surely we
could now tell why, from the first, we had been so anxious about them. There yet remained a
trace in their sadly-altered appearance of something we had loved and lost. But the news spread
like lightning, the entrance was left to its fate, every one flocked with their own eyes to
behold that it was really true. The little ones flew into Smart's arms, and kissed his great
face, and welcomed him as a father. The dear captain still remains insensible on the ground.
We poured water over him, we chafed his hands, we called him by every tender name, but his
insensibility remained deep and profound. It was necessary that something should check our
joy, otherwise we should have been too elated for safety and prudence.

Two of us watched by the captain, and the others, accompanied by the not-to-be-lost-sight-of
Smart, went to fill up the entrance. It was now daylight, and in this little instance we saw
what it was to have our dear Smart back again. In ten minutes he secured the entrance far more
safely than we could do in an hour; and all being now right, we adjourned to our breakfasts,
though it was only to ask questions and give answers, for nobody could eat; but his important
communications must be kept for another chapter.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

With a little girl on each knee, Felix hanging with arms round his neck, Oscar sitting into
his pocket, and we all ranged in a circle before him, we forgot the pirates, we forgot everything
but the present moment. We almost fancied ourselves once more at home; and thus we sat for
hours, heedless of meals and dangers, listening to and retailing again all that had occurred
since our sad and fatal parting.

The only interruptions were our occasional visits to the dear captain, whose insensibility
had given place to an attack of fever and delirium, through which Madame had engaged to bring
him, if we left her in peace and quiet to fulfil her own prescriptions. We could not avoid,
however, spite our deep interest in all Smart said, running to enquire every ten minutes if
he was better. And painful was it to hear his broken exclamations, his cries after us, the
mournful repetition of each little pet name, his agonies for their fancied danger, his remorse
and sorrow choking the prayers and petitions he mixed with all he said. Dear kind captain,
if all you said in your delirium had been running through your brain once you had parted from
us, no wonder that it had at last given way, and that you now lay before us a wreck of what
you once were, a broken-down, miserable-looking, white-headed man. But now for Smart's story,
which I think it best to give in his own words, as well as how we questioned it all out of him.

Felix.--"Ah, Tommy, dear Tommy, how could you run away and leave us in that bad manner?"

Oscar.--"Yes, Smart, I don't think we have ever been happy since, until to-day."

Smart (blowing his nose and wiping his eyes).--"My dear young 'squire, my darling Mr. Felix,
was it not the mistress's orders? But I will never leave you again, no, not if I am pounded
to death by those scums of the earth, and live to see them rewarded for their trouble."

The three little girls (all in piteous voices).--"And could they hurt you, dear Smart, so good
and kind as you are, and our darling captain? Oh, make haste, make haste, and tell us all about
it."

Smart.--"I will make every haste, dear young ladies, but I don't rightly know where to begin.
The sight of all your beautiful faces and my young gentlemen grown into men, and looking so
proud and handsome, makes me in a manner beside myself; and me and the old captain was but
a-saying last night no longer could we bear the trouble, but must do ourselves a mischief."

Felix.--"You, a mischief! No, no, Smart, you were always a very good boy. It's only me was
a mischief."

Smart.--"You are a very fine young gentleman, and be growed; dear me, Sir, how you be growed.
I would not a known you but for them eyes, and that bit of mischief they have in them. Give
me leave, Ma'am, just to take one good look of you all. My heart, how the young ladies have
sprung up, like lilies on a stalk. Miss Gatty no doubt as free as ever, only quite a woman;
and you, Ma'am, be a sight stouter. Oh, what a sight this is. Little did we think, ould captain
and I, when we seed this onlucky island agin, little did we think as you was still here. When
they brought us up out of the hold, I knowed the spot in a minute. Says I to the cap'in, 'Not
content with murdering us they mean to cut our hearts in two. Here's the very blessed place
as I saw them all last time as ever I laid eyes on them.' With that he gave a great shout and
has never rightly been himself since. And, truly, with my own heart nigh bursting, his'n was
a mighty heavy one to bear up. Spite of all our hard work, we did our best to examine every
spot to find traces of you, and we came to the notion, as you were all gone, through good whiles,
maybees safe, unknowst of our fate, maybees dead; any way, we thought you had escaped our sad hap."

Schillie.--"But, Smart, that's the end of your story, begin at the beginning."

Smart.--"Where's that, Ma'am? I know neither beginning or end of anything since that unlucky
morn we slipped away."

Schillie.--"Where did you go to then?"

Smart.--"Why we sailed away some few days; the vessel was but a cockle on the water, she was
so light, so that we were noways comfortable in the matter of steadiness and good walking ground.
Anyways, however, we had plenty to do spelling at the pumps, and so we went on, I won't say
with hearts as light as the vessel, until a shot struck the big stick as stands in the middle
of the ship. Well, we looked about, and saw an evil-disposed, black-looking, hang-dog of a
vessel, that sent shot upon shot into us. Well, the smell of powder did me good, and we gave
it them back right well with them two brass guns, Master. I beg your pardon, Sir, you being
so growed, Mr. Oscar. And so we should ha' gone on peppering them to this minute, until they
were all dead or gave in, had it not been for them same guns getting so hot, they were next
to no use at all. Howsumdever, when they came aboord, we gave it them in a manner as some will
carry to their dying day. And though that never mended the matter, it's a poor heart that does
not rejoice over something, and that something was the settling of a round dozen of them rascally
pirates by my own hand."

The boys (together).--"Twelve pirates! Did you really kill twelve?"

Smart.--"Kill or drown 'em, you may reckon on that, Sirs, and many more would I have served
out in like manner, but four great brutes came behind me, and cracked my skull to that degree
as neither sight to my eyes or sense to my tongue came for a length of weeks. And, maybe, but
for the good old captain, it's in heaven only (if God in his goodness will grant me to go there)
that I ever thought to see your sweet faces again."

Lilly.--"Now, dear Smart, go on."

Smart.--"Yes, Miss Lilly, but what a head o' hair you have, my pretty young lady; why here
are curls enough to hang a score of pirates, but never a hair shall go near them, mark my words.
They shall hew me into mince-meat ere they look on the sight that makes me strong as lions."

Lilly.--"But go on, dear Smart."

Smart.--"The breadth and length of them shall pass over my body ere they touch even Mrs. Hargrave.
My heart sings with joy. I feel as a giant refreshed, now I know thee to be all safe and well,
and growed so beautiful. I wants nothing, I cares for nothing. It's enough that I see you once
more."

All the little girls and boys.--"But, dear Smart, go on. What did the pirates do to you?"

Smart.--"They did that to me as I never thought living man would do. They marked my back with
stripes, but I never felt them, for the wound in my heart. They worked me worse than any horse;
yet I was glad to be druv from my thoughts. And when I would fall from weakness, want, and
hard treatment, I would sink with pleasure, trusting my time was come, and that they would
have nothing but senseless clay to kick. Howsumdever, God has been good to me. May I never
forget this hour. All things will prosper now. The good time is coming, and the worst is over.
Could we but build a bridge now to bonnie ould England, I would desire nothing else in this
world, save one good fight with those d----. I humbly beg pardon, ladies, but excuse poor Smart,
he has almost forgot his manners in the bad company he has been keeping."

The boys.--"Never mind, Smart, we will help you to kill them. Mother and cousin Schillie were
going to set about it as soon as ever the pirate vessel was gone, and we were to help."

Felix.--"And I was going to have a right and left shot, Tommy."

Smart.--"And you would ha' settled 'em, I'll be bound, Sir. What a stout fine fellow you be
growed, Sir, and I hope as good too, and very sensible too; and I dare say, Sir, quite the
gentleman to the little ladies."

Felix (looking down).--"Yes, yes, I dare say, perhaps, Smart, but we are not able to be ladies
and gentlemen here you know. We are obliged to be servants and everything, and Otty and I are
the gamekeepers."

Smart.--"Well, I do suppose, Sir, that does not prevent your behaving in a civil like way to
the little ladies."

Felix.--"Oh yes, we are very civil to them when they are kind to us. But once we could not
have any fish, because Lilly would not give us one of her curls to make lines."

Smart.--"Oh, my heart alive, take one of these pretty curls to make fishing lines? Indeed,
Master Felix, I always thought you were very oudacious, Sir, begging your pardon."

Felix.--"But she had such a many of them, Smart."

Mother.--"There you need say no more on that sore subject. You know Lilly repented afterwards,
and you ought to be ashamed of mentioning the matter."

Felix.--"But I must just tell Smart she did give us two at last, her two longest and best;
and, my stars, how angry Jenny was, I really thought she would whip me."

Jenny.--"Indeed, Sir, you was very aggravating. See how shocked Smart is that ever you should
have wanted or taken Miss Lilly's curls."

Felix.--"Well, Smart, don't be angry, we will never do it any more, only they did make such
good lines, and Mama was nearly as vexed as Jenny."

Big and little girls.--"Now, Smart, go on."

Smart.--"I ha' a'most done, ladies; them times is too shocking to remember; but it's true gospel,
as we all remained servants and slaves to them----scums. They took the ship, and painted and
fitted her out until her own sister would not ha' known her. And they came and went just as
suited 'em, always a-leaving us with sum on 'em, and their wives, and houses, and children,
in a outlandish place, hot as the place I trust they'll all go to."

Oscar.--"Sailors and all, Benjie and Mr. ----"

Smart.--"He, poor fellow, was done for at the first, and a good many of the sailors were likewise
done up and made away with, so that, maybees, there was not six left on us. The cap'in and
I have stuck to each other through fair and foul, though it's precious little of the former
as has blessed our heads, and there be sum few yet remaining at that place I was telling you
was so hot."

The Quixotic little girls and boys all exclaim, "Then we must go and save them, especially Benjie."

Smart.--"Hi, Benjie, he was doing very well, but, being a good decent sort of chap, it's my
wonder he never poisoned them----ramscallions when cooking for them."

Smart always, when mentioning the pirates, seemed half choked in preventing himself saying
some word that he did not deem proper for our ears. Sometimes it half slipped out, when he
made an apologetical bow; sometimes he swallowed it whole; but he always paused, as if to give
himself time to say it privately as a relief to his feelings.

But this conversation will be wearisome, so I will say no more than that Smart imagines they
were brought to this island to help to look after the stores and gardens, and to be servants,
the pirates not knowing the important interest they had in the island, or that they had ever
seen it before. Also, that they intended to make it their regular colony, and by degrees bring
their whole establishment there; for the island was very well known, and always shunned by
vessels on account of the great snake, whom it seemed impossible to destroy. This accounted
for our never seeing any vessels all this time; and the pirates would not have ventured there
had it not been for the storm we had thought so unlucky, and which now seemed to be the crowning
providence of our eventful lives.

In the meantime, Smart was never tired in listening to the children's tales, and whatever he
was doing, he had the whole five clinging about him.

CHAPTER XXXV.

Madame fulfilled her promise, and in a few days we had the inexpressible satisfaction of sitting
by the rude couch of the captain, and hearing his broken exclamations of happiness and delight.
It seemed sufficient pleasure to him to watch us as we went about our various duties, and smiles
mixed with tears often covered his poor thin face as the little ones vied with each other in
nursing him. But he was too weak yet to enter into much conversation, and his nurse was very
careful not to let him over-exert himself, for fear of a relapse. In fact, nature seemed to
speak for him, as in reply to our anxious queries whether we could do anything for him, he
would reply, "Nothing, nothing, but let me look at you, God be praised."

In these few days of exquisite happiness we forgot all about the pirates. Nobody watched them,
nobody thought of them, though we have reason to suppose that they made a diligent search for
their prisoners, and even persevered in it to the top of the large cavern. This we had deserted
for some time on account of the dead body, and we now lived in the smaller ones lower down,
one of which was so near the waterfall we had nearly as much light as above, and also heard
the murmuring sound of the water in a very pleasing and cooling manner. Here, close by the
waterfall, the little ones led their dear captain, that he might inhale as much of the fresh
sea air as we could get, and from thence we, of course, watched our enemies. They seemed very
busy indeed, and it was no small satisfaction to the children to watch them working so hard,
and pointing them out to Smart, saying, "See, dear Smart, you would have been doing that if
our great army had not come and saved you."

By degrees the captain told us a more coherent story than Smart had been able to give us, and
said within a fortnight of their leaving us they were made prisoners by the pirates; that they
dragged out lengthened days of misery, want, and ill-usage, only held up by the knowledge that
our future deliverance depended upon their escape. And when time went on, and he thought it
was almost impossible such a helpless party of women and children could survive and bear up
under such an unhappy fate, he was almost reduced to despair, and they were both determined
to do something desperate when they were put on board the pirates' vessel and brought here.
And when brought up on deck, and Smart's exclamation awoke his mind to the fact that he was
looking upon the lovely bay in which he had left us with hopes of a speedy and happy return,
his brain turned with inward emotion, his heart seemed to turn to stone, he became a moving
body without soul or sense, save an eager looking for traces of us.

These could, as we knew, be only so very faint they could leave no clue to our destiny. The
first ray of hope that shot through him was finding one of our little notes, though, for some
time, they thought it was but the writing of ancient days, and not meant for them now. But
when they found another, and when the pirates picked more up, and turned them round and round
to make out their meaning, a conviction shot through them they had some kind person interested
in their fate on the island. But they had some difficulty in managing about the light, as burning
it steady would have been forbidden by the pirates. A wild hope had now and then crossed their
minds, but had each time been driven away as impossible, and it was not until they felt the
soft smooth female hands in that dark but happy night that they gave up their minds to hopeful
anticipations, mixed with some fears. How their fondest wishes were realized almost in the
first flash of the torch had been already detailed, and while the weakened frame and overwrought
mind of the captain sunk under the weight of so much happiness the buoyant Smart recovered
his own character at once, and became all and everything he had ever been to us, with a double
portion of strength, energy, and sense to assist and help us.

And now a fortnight had passed, and we found the pirates making great preparations to sail.
This they soon did, and, counting their members as they went on board, we had the inexpressible
happiness of finding that not one was left behind. Once more we had our dear little island
to ourselves, and thoroughly did we enjoy the open air and brilliant sunshine, for, with all
thankfulness for their kind shelter, it must be acknowledged the caverns were a little gloomy
and musty. We wandered over every well-known place, shewed our dear house, now such a ruin,
and expatiated upon all its beauties and conveniences, until the captain declared it must have
been the most perfect house in the world, while Smart vowed he would settle a score of pirates
for daring to burn it down.

And now we found out what the pirates had been so busy about during the last fortnight, namely,
building a perfect village of huts at the old house by the plantation. The captain shook his
head as he mournfully said, "the whole colony are coming to settle here," while Smart coolly
declared, "he was mighty glad thereat, as he would not die happy unless he could settle 'em
all, big and little." And forthwith persuaded everybody but Madame and Hargrave to take to
ball practice as he called it, that the army might be ready in case of any emergency. We thought
it no harm to practice with our neighbours' goods, though we meant to turn them against themselves.
But Smart knew where their magazine was, and in a most unprincipled manner we abstracted whatever
we could that would not be immediately discovered.

Smart, who always had had a secret admiration for Schillie's sang froid and man-like propensities,
treated her as his favourite pupil; and after she had hit the mark seventeen times running,
held her up to us as worthy of imitation.

Smart.--"I used to always be a-telling our cap'in they'll do well if they mind Mrs. E, she
has the soul of a man and the wits of a king; and it's my belief even if they hadna gotten
us back, she'd a outwitted them ere----rascallion divildims."

Nothing delighted the boys so much as to put Smart into a rage, talking about the pirates.
The dooms they were all to meet with, if once he got them into his power, would have done for
Foxe's book of Martyrs. But much as we enjoyed this time we were not idle; we were making constant
preparations for the great struggle that must, we knew, inevitably take place between us and
the pirates. And, calculating that they would arrive with their colony a short time before
the wet weather, to get settled in their houses before it commenced, we should have that time
to mature our plans, besides settling what had best be done.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

The sight of two sail in the horizon one evening prepared us for seeing them in harbour the
next day. But conceive our indignation when the captain told us that the other dirty, dingy,
ill-looking, black vessel was no other than our darling La Luna. To be sure she had not lost
her elegant shape, but in every other respect she was so altered not one of us knew her. The
little girls sat down and cried like fishes (if they do cry), and Madame helped to swell the
stream by a copious flow of tears; while the indignation of the elder girls vented itself in
anathemas and threats against the pirates, that showed they had profited pretty considerably
by Smart's conversation and opinions. We were now obliged to take to our burrows, and watched,
with immense wrath and disgust, the debarkation of the female pirates from the pretty cabins
and berths of our La Luna.

In appearance and manners they matched the men, but we agreed amongst ourselves, tall and fierce
as they looked, we were not afraid of them, and had no objection to "settle them," as Smart
called it. There were fifteen women and about eleven children, while the pirates themselves
now amounted to forty-five. Fearful odds against us. Nevertheless, the courage and determination
of the army rose higher and higher. They had only just time to get themselves into their houses
and huts, and the ships into winter quarters; ere the bad weather commenced. How they spent
their time on the island we never enquired. It was enough that we were very happy within her
friendly bosom, indulging in all sorts of merriment and fun, knowing they were a good way off,
close prisoners like ourselves. And while in the pretty, elegant, and spacious drawing-room
once before mentioned, so replete with luxury, beauty, and every comfort, mourners still sat
and thought of and wept for the long-lost, the mysteriously-doomed members of that once happy
family; each kind face bearing the traces of the anxious fear and thoughts months but added
to and time could not heal: how looked the little party in the coral caverns of the Pacific?
We will look at them once more, ere we take our leave of them for good. Lying on a rude grass
couch is an elderly lady, her hair snow-white, and covered with a cambric handkerchief to serve
as a cap; she is reading. Not far from her are two servants, in long blue rough dresses; they
seem preparing a meal. On the other side of them is seated, on a rude bench, a weather-beaten
white-haired man; a pretty graceful girl of twelve is watching him concocting a pair of shoes,
and as they are for herself, she diligently assists. A little sparkling bright face peeps behind,
and mischievously adorns the captain's head with Hargrave's sad remains of a cap, which she
always carefully puts aside when doing anything likely to hurt it. Not far from them is the
fine, tall, athletic frame of the keeper, both boys intently watching him making fishing lines,
they dressed in loose white shirts, open in front, and full white trousers; the elder boy imitating
the art of making lines, the little one exciting his parrot to abstract Smart's apparatus,
as fast as he puts one thing down after another, which leads to sundry threats on Smart's part
that he will "settle" both young Master and parrot if they are not quiet. As this "settling"
never takes place, of course the delinquents go on, even to abstracting all the treasures out
of Smart's pockets. But you can see by Smart's eye a day of reckoning is coming for those two.
There are no less than nine parrots making more or less noise in the cavern, who have each
a different owner, and whose voices they distinguish with wonderful sagacity, and hop, crawl,
and climb in their quaint manner whenever they are called.

Two little, quiet, serious-looking monkeys are busily watching the preparations for dinner,
appropriating what they can to themselves in so secret and sly a manner that Hargrave is totally
ignorant of the real thieves, and accuses Jenny wrathfully of misplacing her things. Jenny
laughs and shows her pretty white teeth, enjoying the joke as much as we do.

Three fine, tall, becoming girls, each above the middle size, one fair and bright-looking as
the sun, another graceful as the fawn with eyes and mouth the perfection of sweet gentle beauty,
and the last a sort of female Smart, strong as a young elephant, with mouth like rosebuds,
teeth like almonds, and eyes so bright in their dark beauty you could hardly gaze into them;
such were the dear girls, a sight, as the captain said, such as he only thought to see in heaven.
They are grouped together over two weaving machines, and while one is employed removing the
broken threads that invariably occur in our clumsy machines, the other two throw the shuttle
to and fro. Not with much diligence though for that ever-mischievous Gatty throws one impediment
after another in their way, so that I foresee the two sisters will suddenly set upon her, and
there will be a regular scuffle.

And who is that lying her full length on the ground, the flushed cheek resting on one hand,
the violet eyes closed, and the knitted stocking that requires finishing that day has fallen
from the little listless hand? Oh Lilly, Lilly, idle Lilly, here are you soundly sleeping,
and there is your parrot conceitedly thinking he can do the work of his lazy little mistress,
and in another minute it will be all destroyed. Wake up, little sleeper, wake up, and collect
those long curls floating like a raven curtain about you. Think what Madame will say if she
catches but a glimpse of you. A little apart from all stands one tall figure, taller than all
the rest, her dark hair folded back from her forehead, her dark eyes watching each beloved
group, while she spins unceasingly. Close at her feet sits her shadow, clothed in the same
sort of long white dress, with the open sleeves disclosing the prettiest ivory arms in the
world. Short curling hair of a rich dark colour hangs round the white neck and broad forehead
of the sitter, and what are those little pink and white fingers doing? Must I tell? A faithful
historian must recite plain facts, and, therefore, provided the secret goes no further, I will
allow she was cleaning pistols! And, according to Smart's opinion, "she did 'em a sight better
than many a man he had had under him."

Now and then those clear dark eyes look up, and she says, "Now, June, stop that everlasting
wheel or I shall have you fainting with fatigue."

Mother.--"Take my place then."

Schillie.--"Good lack, spinning is such dull work. Let me finish my pistols first."

And of course dinner is announced ere the pistols are pronounced complete. A solemn grace said
by the dear captain, whose "God be thanked" comes slowly from the lips as if the heart was
with it. Then a merry dinner, Smart, and the maidens waiting on us, for nothing will persuade
Smart to sit down with us, and Jenny keeps him company, and Hargrave, with a little hauteur
condescends to do the same. All sorts of pranks go on between Smart and the boys during dinner.
Felix trying to upset his solemn gravity, while Oscar sends him with preserved ginger to Schillie's
duck, roasted potatoes to Madame's tapioca pudding, whereby he gets very shamefaced, as Schillie,
with blunt sincerity, points out his mistake. Then behind us he shakes his fist at the boys,
while they invent fresh nonsense to tease him. In the meantime the dispute runs hot and high
between the little girls as to who is to sit next to their beloved captain, Gatty and Serena
making believe that they will assert their rights as Signori Priori, and take the coveted seats.

However dinner is over, and we all adjourned to the lowest cavern while the servants eat theirs.
Then we sing songs and tell stories.

Felix.--"Cousin Schillie, you promised to tell us the story of the jack-daws if we behaved
well and obeyed our general."

Schillie.--"Pooh! pooh! you have heard it a hundred times, boy."

Felix.--"But the captain has not."

"I should like to hear it very much," said he.

Mother.--"Then, Schillie, you will have to tell it again for the hundred and first time, and
you, captain, must not think that you are to hear a very wonderful story, but, as it is the
only one she was ever known to tell, we are obliged to make her repeat it again and again.
If she would kindly tell us a fresh one we should be obliged, but, as she won't, we will prepare
ourselves to listen once more to the tale of

THE JACK-DAWS.

Once upon a time (this is too bad of you June) there stood an old church in the middle of a
village (making me tell this old story), and this church had a very fine old tower (I wish
you up in it now), and in this tower lived a fine pair of jack-daws (fine company for you).
Well! you must know these jack-daws had a large family of greedy young children (just like
you). Now there lived in the village, (besides many other brats) two boys, a big boy and a
little boy. The big boy was a great big stout hulking fellow, with a snubby nose and green
eyes; and the little fellow was a nice active chap, about the size of Tom Thumb, quick and
sharp as a needle. So one day these two boys sat in the church-yard, and watched the jack-daws
as they flew hither and thither and everywhere. Says the little fellow, 'Them jack-daws must
have a nest up there.' Says the big chap, 'No doubt, and I would like to have the young ones,'
(mind children it's a wicked thing taking birds from their nests; look at all of you away from
your nests; go on, cousin, go on, the captain is quite impatient). Well! so they agreed they
would climb up the old church tower, and get the young ones, which accordingly they did. Now
you must know the old jack-daws, being very knowing, had built their nest so that it was outside
the tower, just out of their reach, and there they could see almost within grasp seven little
jack-daws, all with their mouths wide open, waiting for their father to pop in a delicious
fat worm! ('Oh, cousin, how nasty,' says Winny). So the two boys were much puzzled, but at
last the big one takes hold of a plank, and, putting it out of the little window, 'Now,' says
he, 'go you and sit at that end and I will push the plank out of the window, and you will just
be able to reach the nest.' 'Very well,' says the little fellow, 'but mind you sit at the other
end, lest the plank tilts up with me, and I go down.' 'All right,' says the big fellow, and
away goes the little boy. 'I have got them all seven,' says he, 'and very fine ones they are.'
'Very well', says the big boy, 'mind four are mine, and three are yours.' 'No such thing,'
says the little one, 'I underwent the danger, so I'll have the four, and you shall have the
three.' 'No you shall not,' says big bully. 'Yes I will,' says the little sturdy fellow. 'I
will let you down if you don't give me the four,' says the big rascal. 'Let away,' says the
small boy, 'I won't give them up.' So the young villain let go the plank, and away went the
little fellow, holding stoutly on by his little birds. Well the seven jack-daws spread their
wings and fluttered, and the wind being high, it filled a great stout pinafore that he had
on, so that between the two, he was borne safely to the ground, when, looking up at the window,
out of which the big bully was watching his flight, he shouted out, 'Now you shall have none
of them.'

CHAPTER XXXVII.

Felix.--"Now, captain, if you had seen that big boy, would you not have walloped him?"

"Most certainly," said the captain, "but now we must be thinking of more important matters."
And as the hot weather set in with more than ordinary vigour, it was very clear that we should
not be safe in our caverns, subjected to the earthquakes that generally accompany the heat.

Besides we were getting restless and impatient. If all alone by ourselves, we had meditated
getting the better of the pirates--think what wild schemes we now had, with Smart and the captain
to help us.

But we must wait until some of them went away in the ships after their usual avocations, as
even the bravest amongst us did not hope to conquer them all. They seemed however bent upon
making their homes more comfortable before they went, and it was somewhat late in the season
when they started in their own vessel, leaving La Luna and half their men behind. These latter
were employed in sowing seeds and preparing the ground for fruits and vegetables. We saw but
little of the women, as they hardly ever left their side of the island. We now discussed the
possibility of dispatching those parties who were left behind, thinking though there were many
more than we expected, yet we might get rid of them, and taking possession of La Luna, get
off the island at once. A mad scheme it certainly was and nothing but the ardent longing we
had to escape made us think of it so confidently.

In the meantime, Smart gained the captain's permission, to "settle" any of the men he might
catch in a convenient position, so as to shoot them, without exposing himself or us to risk
of discovery. So highly did he appreciate this permission, that he never ceased day or night
dodging about and watching these people, and three times he came in with ill-concealed triumph,
though he respected our feelings too much to do more than insinuate he had "settled" some one
or more. We, in the meanwhile, occupied ourselves in making sacks and putting food into them,
ready to start at a moment's warning should a favourable time arrive.

The pirates, we suppose, now began to suspect, from the extraordinary death of three of their
men, that the two prisoners were concealed somewhere in the island, and not being able to discover
them, or to account for deaths taking place in such different parts of the island, they kept
altogether, close to the plantation side, and left the bay entirely to us.

This gave Smart an opportunity of getting to the ship and bringing off a boat, which we concealed
by day in a cleft of the rock, but nightly we employed ourselves in running down to the shore
with everything we had collected, which Smart and the captain stowed in the ship. We had been
at this work about a week, in full confidence and in the highest spirits, our hopes were great,
the dangers of the voyage appeared as nothing, all our plans seemed succeeding, when one night,
just as we were all creeping up, tired and worn out with our night's work, we heard shriek
upon shriek from one of our party.

The strong sonorous voice of the captain shouted to us to get to cover. Smart followed, huddling
us all in like sheep, but, dark as it was, we could not see who was missing, and I could not
trust my voice to ask. We ran to the inner cavern, and there, by the light of the torch, we
missed the darling child, Zoë, and both the maids.

Smart.--"Don't fret, Ma'am, don't fret, no harm is done. We'll have 'em back by the morn. The
cap'in and I will just take a step out and look about us, and you, Madam, will be ready to
help us, no doubt," turning to Schillie.

Schillie.--"Yes, yes, Smart, I am quite willing. As for you, June, mind what Smart says, and
don't fret. If we could rescue those two from all of them, think how much more likely we are
to succeed now. I am only afraid that fool Hargrave will do us a mischief. I wish it had been
any other person than her in the scrape."

Captain.--"Now then, Madam, send them all to rest, and don't fear anything. Smart and I are
not likely to sit still while our brave deliverers are in danger. And as for my pretty flower,
I'll cut through a wall of pirates to get at her."

Mother.--"Then, Madame, take them all away. I assure you I cannot sleep. I am ready to help
with Schillie. Let us settle at once what is best to be done."

They all went off most unwillingly, while we arranged that getting up through the big cavern
by the rope still concealed there, Smart should go to the pirates' village, in as secret a
manner as he could, and find out what was best to be done, and where the prisoners were placed.
No time was to be lost. He was guided immediately to the place, not only by the glare of the
torches, but by the screams of Hargrave, and following them cautiously, he concealed himself
close by one of the windows where they were put, and heard all that took place.

Jenny was recognised immediately, and the innocent child was frightened almost into a fainting
fit by the rough and horrid manners of these dreadful people. But, according to Smart's account,
Mrs. Hargrave was in a mort of tantrums. He got back in safety, though with much difficulty,
and then detailed to us the following facts:

They were, as before, questioned all about themselves, and Jenny, as before, stoutly maintained
all were dead. They pointed to the child, and smiled in scorn, but Zoë, like a brave little
girl, positively refused to say more than Jenny did, making the tears run down Smart's face
as he described the little white lips, so firm and decided; and each time, by way of puzzling
her, they put the question in a different manner, each time she pointed to the three as if
they were all.

Smart.--"I beant one bit afeard of them two, but I am of that Mrs. Hargrave; and it crossed
my mind, when I heerd her shrieking and squalling for you all, if I had not better put a bullet
in her head just to silence her, only I did not for ould acquaintance sake, and I seed, by
the sniggling of them oudacious monsters, as they meant to get some'at out of her. I gave Jenny
to understand as I was near at hand, and the brave little thing, I could see by her eye, knowed
the sound, but never a sign gave she."

Captain.--"I am afraid, Smart, it is of no use trying to deceive them any longer, as they must
be now aware that there is some place of concealment on the island unknown to them; and, from
my knowledge of their character, I know their cunning and devilry is so great they will leave
no stone unturned to find it out."

Smart.--"Cap'n, you and I agree, and it's through that weak fool Mrs. Hargrave as they'll sarcumvent
us. I never thought she had much brains, and now I reckon she has worse nor none. Jenny and
Miss Zoë would ha' got clear off, had it not been for her skriking and pulling at 'hem, for
I heerd Jenny a giving it her handsome, saying she must ha' had the heart of a savage to keep
such hold of Miss Zoë when the pirates took her, instead of letting the little innocent lady
escape as she could; and, though she did not say so, I am partly sure Jenny might ha' got off
well, only she was a-trying to get Miss Zoë free from that weak woman, a-holding on like grim
death, and, finding she wasn't capable, she bided with the child to be a help and comfort to her."

Mother.--"Ah, how like that good Jenny."

Schillie.--"She certainly is a little trump, and never thinks of herself."

Madame.--"If I fold my darling Zoë in my arms once more, I shall never be able sufficiently
to show my gratitude to Jane."

Captain.--"She shall never want for bite nor sup, once we get her free, as long as I live."

Felix.--"She is not your Jenny, captain, she is mine, she is always to live with me, and, when
I am married, she is to be my children's nurse."

Sybil and Serena and Gatty all expressed their admiration, while Gatty added, "I wish Smart
had sent his bullet where he said, for if there is an owl in the world it is that Hargrave."

The captain proceeded to state that there seemed no likelihood of the prisoners being harmed
at present. I had visions before my eyes of the old stories where innocent children are brought
forward with bloody swords held over their heads, ready to be sacrificed if they did not confess
and capitulate, and while all agreed they would sacrifice themselves for Zoë and Jenny, Smart
and the captain declared we were not allowed the choice, for our lives were in their keeping,
and all must not be sacrificed for two. We none of us seemed to have the least pity or care
for poor Hargrave.

"It was mighty lucky," said Smart, "she could speak nothing but her mother tongue, and that
but badly clipping and mincing it, for she was letting out everything in such a way I could
ha' shook her well; and I'll be bound to do it when I next see her. I hopes as they did not
understand, but I ha' my doubts."

The captain now set them all to work watching at different posts, with orders to run and tell
him all that occurred every half hour. Turning to Schillie and me he said, "Ladies I would
advise you to prepare for the worst. They will work on the fears of that silly woman I doubt.
We must be prepared, and while I can defend the entrance for a good hour, you must make your
retreat, and where that is to be the Lord only knows."

Mother.--"If we could get to the top of that big rock standing out this side the bay, we can
keep them off for some time there."

Captain.--"That rock is but changing one desperate hope for another. However we must trust
in God. I'll try and believe that poor woman will not utterly forget herself and us."

Schillie.--"Why! my good captain, this island is like a rabbit warren, they can never unearth
us if we choose to be moderately careful."

Captain.--"I have no doubt we could hide here for some time, but, with such a lot of young
ones all the care in the world on our parts may be upset in a moment by thoughtlessness on
theirs. Besides, they won't leave a corner unvisited I feel sure, partly out of revenge, for
they are a most spiteful race, and partly from feeling persuaded you are the people so long
lost, and for whose recovery such large rewards are offered."

Schillie.--"In that case I imagine they won't harm us."

Captain.--"They might not perhaps have done so at first, but 'they will cut off their nose
to spite their face' I am certain; by which I mean they will be so savage at losing their men,
and so angered at having been deceived all this time by such a helpless party, that they might
murder us all in cold blood on the spur of the moment."

Schillie.--"And that will be very unpleasant as far as I can judge."

Mother.--"I should think we could make some hiding places amongst the caverns, captain."

Captain.--"So we could, Madam, had we time, and if I live but an hour, or for one hundred years,
my regret at not having taken the precaution will be the same."

Schillie.--"Give me any orders you like, captain, and they shall be done if possible."

Captain.--"I know they will, I know for certain they will, so now I will tell you all I think,
and you shall decide for yourselves. In the first place, have you any doubt but that if the
pirates let Mrs. Hargrave go as to where she will come?"

Schillie.--"Like any wild bull she will of course rush to these caverns and expose our hiding
places."

Captain.--"Then we agree, Madam, and without doubt the pirates will watch her and discover
all. Now are we to run the chance of finding safe hiding places in these numerous caverns,
or show ourselves at once and give fair fight?"

Mother (shaking and shivering).--"That I hold to be impossible, for there must be twelve pirates
left, besides all the women and children, and look at us."

Captain.--"We have but a poor chance indeed, Ma'am, but remember, Madam, Smart and I have the
hearts of a dozen strong men in our bosoms, ready to sacrifice all for those we love so much,
and who risked their lives to save us. I feel, yes, I feel as if a wall of pirates must fall
before such a spirit as is within me fails."

Mother.--"But in the fight, supposing any of the children should get hurt, supposing one of
the party were killed, I think, I really think I would rather all went at one blow than that
we should have to mourn the loss of one."

Captain.--"I can understand your feelings well, Madam, and----"

Schillie.--"Come, captain, don't let her talk any more nonsense, crying her eyes out, let you
and I go and take as quick a view of the caverns as we can, and leave her to watch, there is
no danger for an hour or so. And here is a pencil and a bit of paper for you to keep you quiet
until we come back. Write a page for that beautiful journal, for you have got something rather
more interesting to detail than heretofore."

Mother.--"Schillie, I shall really begin to think you quite heartless."

Schillie.--"Pray do. I only wish it was the case, for I doubt our hearts will be sadly torn
to bits the next few days."

They returned in less than an hour with rather less hope than they had before of our being
able to hide in the caverns. One thing was certain we could not hide altogether, and the notion
of being in different places, and not knowing whether one set might not be discovered and the
others looking on, not daring to help for fear of discovering more, quite upset me. I began
to think any fate was better than playing bo-peep in the caverns, and so I said, "We will take
our chance on the rock, for we have many things ready by the waterfall which were meant for
the ship, and we need but snatch up a bundle a-piece."

Schillie.--"When up there, too, we can look down upon our enemies, and take good aim. I shall
not fire at random, but pick out my man."

Mother.--"Don't be so bloody-minded. Hark! there is a scream!"

The captain looked out, applying an epithet to Mrs. Hargrave that only the exigency of the
case could excuse. He said, "Here she comes, and I make no doubt the whole body of them after
her. You'll find lots of bottles and kegs on the right hand side within the waterfall. Whatever
you do think of water. Hang that woman she is coming straight away. I see those rascals close
behind her, she'll be here in five minutes. Come, gang, oh gang yer ways, oh aye here she is,
sailing like a mad woman."

Mother.--"Then you think we had better go at once to the rock."

Captain.--"Yes, yes, without a doubt. Ye'll get up without a soul seeing ye, and ye can kick
in the brushwood weel. Now gang, gang yer ways, and when aince up, keep close as mice."

Schillie.--"I begin to think you have some nous in your head, June, thinking of that rock.
It's so near the ship we may, perhaps, get off in the night."

Mother.--"Heaven grant it. How that woman screams."

Schillie.--"I should like to give her something to scream about, but you are loading yourself
like a pack horse. Well done, Sybil; now, girls, scuttle about, take what's useful; whoever
carries up anything not wanted will have to bring it back again in the teeth of the enemy."

Gatty.--"If you please, little Mother, may I stop behind for one minute, just to speak my mind
to Hargrave."

Schillie.--"She won't be let in this hour, you ape. Now is our only time for getting up to
the top of that rock; where we shall have a full view of the enemy all round."

Madame.--"Gracious heaven, preserve us all. What dangers have we not to endure from the frightful
weakness of one woman."

Schillie.--"It's no use moralizing, Madame, pick up something useful, and be off."

Gatty.--"Here is the green parasol, Madame."

Serena.--"And here is your warm shawl."

Sybil.--"And here is my arm to help you along."

Madame (murmuring).--"May God help us, may the Almighty look down upon us in our hour of need,
and preserve my beloved ones."

Sybil.--"Come, Madame, come, see how active the little ones are. Think how charming to be safe
up there, think how lucky we are to have Smart and the dear captain to help us. Look at Otty
with all the guns running like a hare, and all the little girls flying like lapwings. Come,
Madame, come quickly."

So we ran about in every direction, and, collecting everything that was useful, we left our
friendly shelter and took refuge on the isolated rock before-mentioned.

There was some brushwood at the top, and two or three old weather-beaten palm trees, these
afforded us most welcome shelter.

It was weary work getting to the top, but when once there we hauled up many of our things by
ropes, and some of us had time to return to the cavern and bring away a rope ladder, with several
other valuable acquisitions that, had we been hurried, we should not have recollected them,
also quantities of water.

To our surprise, we saw nothing of Smart after Hargrave's first scream; he disappeared, and
we were all upon the rock but Madame when we missed him, requiring his strong arm to help her up.

Not all the assistance we could give her seemed likely to get her to the top, she was in so
nervous a state. In vain she implored us to leave her to her fate. Nothing but seeing us all
begin to scramble down again to share it with her made her at last, in a fit of desperation,
reach the top. When there, she sunk on the ground helpless, and we laid her at the foot of
one of the palm trees, where she declared she would breathe her last sigh. The three elder
girls now collected all the precious drops of water, putting them under bushes, covering them
with sand, to prevent the powerful sun from evaporating the smallest quantity of such precious
liquid.

Schillie and the boys prepared the guns and pistols, putting everything "handy," as they called
it, for a siege. We snatched a hasty meal, not knowing when we might have another opportunity;
then laying ourselves down, we hid snugly in the brushwood, seeing everything, yet utterly
unseen ourselves.

Gatty.--"It's jolly fun being perched up here seeing all the country round. But what is the
reason we have come up?"

Schillie (shortly).--"You were ordered to, that's enough."

Gatty (half whispering to the girls).--"The bear is out to-day. If I don't mind I shall get
a scratch from its claws."

Schillie (overhearing).--"Bear or not, Miss Gatty, you will be so good as to keep a silent
tongue in your head."

Gatty.--"If you please, little Mother, why?"

Mother.--"Why, Gatty, don't you perceive that if we continue to hide ourselves as we do now
the enemy will never guess where we are. But if you chatter like any magpie, of course they
will find us out."

Gatty.--"Well, I am ready to do anything reasonable and now that I have had a good reason given
me, I'll be as mute as any mole."

Schillie.--"Who deems a mole like you worth a reason."

Sybil.--"Oh, little Mother, Gatty has a capital head when she is trusted."

Schillie.--"Filled with your notions, I suppose, Miss Sybil."

Gatty.--"If you please, little Mother, cannot we get off to the ship to-night; it's quite close,
and no sharks to speak of."

Schillie.--"When your advice is asked, then you may give us your sage opinions."

Mother.--"Come, Schillie, don't be so cross to the poor girls. You know Gatty has given your
own advice in almost your own words."

Schillie.--"Why don't you and those two magpies follow the example of that good child Serena,
and hold your tongues, as she does."

Mother.--"We shall not be disturbed yet awhile. But what makes you so cross?"

Schillie.--"I wonder you don't see what a predicament we are in; and it is no very pleasant
prospect being sea-sick for the next month, let alone going to sea in this mad way, with only
the captain for crew."

Mother.--"Indeed it is very hazardous. I almost think we had better not trust ourselves to
the sea, but run our chance with the pirates."

"Oh, no, no," said all the girls and boys.

"Now if you make such a noise again, children, down you shall all go into the mouths of those
sharks," said Schillie.

"Then promise not to give up," said they in return.

"I promise nothing," said she.

"Then the king of the pirates will come and take you away, cousin," said Felix.

Schillie uttered something between a sigh and a groan, and then said, "You are an impudent
boy, Master Felix, and I always tell your Mother you'll come to no good. But whether she will
live to see you hanged or not I cannot say, for our fate is horrible every way. Just too as
we were getting so comfortable, and having everything so nice and snug about us. I do not think
there is a plant on the island of which I have not discovered the name and property, and everything
grows so beautifully, and such bathing, besides, such delicious fish, and I am so fond of fish,
really it is too bad. I am just beginning to think the island a very nice sort of little place,
and here we are sent to the right about in this horrid fashion."

Gatty.--"Cannot we somehow contrive to kill all the pirates, and get rid of them altogether."

Sybil.--"Yes, we could shoot them from here, taking good aim."

Gatty.--"Ha! ha! just listen to Sybil. Could any one ever have thought she would have been
so bloody-minded."

Serena.--"I wish Zoë and Jenny were safely with us, then we should be quite happy, having only
the captain and Smart to wait for."

Sybil.--"I dare say that is the reason Smart left us in such a hurry."

Gatty.--"I hope it is as you say, old Syb, and I hope still more that they will join us soon,
and I hope most of all that they will leave Hargrave behind."

Sybil.--"Poor thing, but what will they do with her?"

Gatty.--"Eat her, I dare say, and very tough----"

Lilly.--"Oh, Mother, look there! Oh, look! look! Here is Zoë coming, and Smart, and Jenny."

Up we all jumped, and saw the three stealing round the rocks, not two hundred yards from the
shore. Run, we all shouted, waving everything we could lay our hands on. They saw us in a moment,
and quitting the shelter of the rocks, ran down towards us.

At this moment a noise of yelling and screaming was heard, and the whole body of pirates, men,
women, and children, came rushing out from underneath the waterfall.

Smart heard them first, and catching up Zoë in his arms, giving Jenny some directions, he plunged
into the sea, while Jenny kept running to that point of the rock where was the only accessible
point for scrambling up. The tide was half flow, which favoured Smart but would impede Jenny,
unless she dashed through the waves without regarding a wetting. By the care that Smart took
of his little charge, and by Jenny's deliberate proceedings, we saw the servants both meant
to sacrifice themselves for the sake of the child.

We, on our parts, were bewildered for a moment with the coming strife, but the thoughtful boys,
rolling stones down to startle away the sharks before their dear Smart's way, recalled us to
our senses. We let down the rope ladder, and the ready Smart swam to it. Placing his precious
charge on it, he watched her run nimbly up it and we receive her with rapture in safety, when
he wiped his streaming brow, and plunged into the sea again.

Leaving the little ones all to kiss and embrace the lost and found, we ran to the other side
to watch Jenny, and help her if we could. She is flying now, and dashes through the water,
heedless of the coming waves. She does not intend to be taken prisoner again without a struggle.
But there is one horrid pirate outstripping all the others. "Oh, Jenny, Jenny, run, he is gaining
on you." What shall we do to help her? How shall we bear to see her taken before our eyes?
She touches the rock. "A few more steps, Jenny, and you can seize the rope we have let down
to assist you. Oh, horrid fellow, did ever any one run so fast. Ah, it is of no use, dear,
dear Jenny; one more effort." "Mother, Mother," said Oscar, "cannot I shoot him?" "No, dear
boy," said Schillie, "you cannot without hurting Jenny." "But let me try, do let me try. Oh
dear, oh dear, it is too late, he has hold of her." Throwing away his gun, the boy swung down
by the rope before we could prevent him. In vain Jenny called on him not to come, he was down
in a moment, and attacked the pirate, who had both arms round Jenny, with his cutlass. She
struggled, and turning round aided his efforts by buffeting the pirate in the face with her
hands and nails. At this moment Smart appeared, emerging from the sea, having swam round the
rock. One blow from his powerful fist settled the matter. The pirate fell down stunned upon
the rocks. Oscar gave him a parting kick, and then all three assisting each other, scrambled
up the rock in no time, where we most joyfully received them, and where they did not arrive
a minute too soon, for the whole body of pirates were close at hand.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

And now how silly we looked, all exposed to the wondering gaze of the pirates. I heard Schillie
muttering, "What a pack of fools we have been," while Oscar said, "Cousin, we have gone and
done it now. We shall have to fight for it, and we shall have a good rowing from the captain.
I had better go and see after the guns." This he did, shaking them one by one at the pirates
as he examined them, while he and Felix kept appearing and disappearing from behind the trees,
sometimes with hats and sometimes without, as if to make believe there were half a dozen boys.
Smart lay his full length on the ground, endeavouring to recover his breath, after his late
exertions.

It was of no use disguising the fact, we had discovered ourselves and our hiding place, and
though no one certainly could get to us without leave, our helplessness would be fully apparent,
and our identity with the lost party well known. All the advantages we had gained from our
concealment were now over. We had nothing to do but wait in patience for what fate had yet
in store for us.

All this time, while these thoughts were rapidly running through our heads, the whole colony
of pirates were staring in undisguised amazement at us.

Sybil.--"What a frightful set of wretches."

Gatty.--"Horrid. We will never capitulate to them."

Serena.--"The women look as fierce as the men. How they do stare, just as if they never saw
human beings before."

Oscar.--"I could pick off a fellow or two from this distance, Mother, if you like."

Smart (from his lair in the bushes).--"Ha' done, if you please, Sir, with any such notion.
Let me get a breath or two afore we come to a fight; and anyways let them strike the first blow."

Oscar and Felix (together).--"Then do make haste, Smart, and get your breath. If the captain
was but here, we could easily fight those wretches."

Smart.--"Breath or no breath, I ben't agoing to fight them devildoms with no better helps than
you two, young masters. Bide quiet like brave boys, and do as the Duke of Wellington does."

Felix.--"How is that, Tommy?"

Smart.--"Why he waits until the enemy gives him a reason to get his blood up, and when that's
done it's all up with them."

Felix.--"But my blood is up, Tom."

Smart.--"Then let it cool a bit, Sir; any way the tide is rising, and them rascals is sufficiently
knowledgeable to see that the sharks is a guarding of us now. When it gets dark it will be
ebbing and I'll be off to see after cap'n, and you'll have enew to do, Sir, to keep watch until
we get back."

Gatty.--"Don't bring Hargrave back if you can help it, Smart."

Smart.--"I ben't much inclined that way myself, Miss, but I have heerd we are bound to be merciful."

Gatty.--"She has not been merciful to us, I am sure."

Smart.--"I do partly think as she ben't quite answerable for her ways. Any how I shanna put
myself out of the way to look after her."

Mother.--"Oh yes, Smart, you must try your best."

Smart.--"To be sure, Ma'am, if so be you wishes it. But I be thinking there is a power of mischief
in her yet."

Mother.--"I think it must all have been frightened out of her by this time. Did you see anything
of her when you went in search of the others?"

Smart.--"No, Madam, I went straight away for Miss Zoë and Jenny, the cap'n having given me
my orders so to do, let alone me ordering myself that way also. I had to knock over a couple
of women-kind, which went agin my conscience: not knowing how people might act towards my poor
dear woman, and my two pretty boys, all these years that I have been from them."

Here Smart showed symptoms of a pathetic nature, for which Felix tried to comfort him saying,
"I am sure they are doing very well, for Mrs. Smart will have taken in some washing, and Jem
is I dare say a gamekeeper by now, and perhaps little Tom too."

From Jenny we further learnt that they had come round the way they did to avoid the pirates.
As they passed the upper caverns they heard what Jenny called a great "scremmage," but saw
nothing of Hargrave or the captain. Had they been ten minutes sooner round the rock they might
have reached us in safety, and without discovery.

The pirates having given full scope to their curiosity regarding us, now separated, and, while
some remained as watchers, the others went off to examine the waterfall and caverns, and look,
as we supposed, for our two companions.

"Ha, ha," said Smart, as he saw them emerging in and out from beneath the waterfall, "if it
had not been for that demented woman you would never have speered that place, I'll go bail.
Mighty pretty it is too as well as uncommon convanient."

Oscar.--"Is it not like the waterfall at Cil Hepste in Glamorganshire."

Smart.--"Just such another, Sir, and if I have the luck to see that ere waterfall again, it's
a pity if I don't look o' the inside of it."

Felix.--"What, do you think we shall find caverns and pirates in it, like this one, Tommy?"

Smart.--"No, Sir, I'se warrant there is neer a pirate there, but it's an uncommon curious place,
and like this 'un as one pea to another. The ould lady seems but baddish I consate."

This was but too true. Whether from the fright or the heat, or the unusual exertions, Madame
was anything but well, and fell from one fit of hysterics to another. We could do but little
to mend her, for even supposing we had had smelling salts on the island we should not have
deemed it one of the necessaries to bring upon the rock. We put Zoë beside her with orders
to talk to her, and tell her as many of her adventures as she could to amuse and divert her mind.

And then Jenny told us how good and brave Miss Zoë had been, and how neither of them would
have been taken prisoners had it not been for that "squawking" Hargrave. Upon which Gatty and
the boys declared they wished her no worse fate than to be married to one of the pirates.

Schillie (with gravity).--"I will make over to her my interest with the King."

Gatty.--"We might actually have been on board sailing away at this moment instead of frying
up here, with these frightful pirates blinking and grinning at us, as if they never saw Christians
before."

Sybil.--"Perhaps they never did, Gatty."

Serena.--"Jenny, did you know that we were discovered in the caverns through Hargrave? They
made her a trap to catch us."

Jenny.--"Miss Zoë told me, Miss, she was afraid from what she could make out that they were
going to make something out of Mrs. Hargrave. But I could not understand them at all. Nevertheless
we both cautioned her as much as possible, though she was in such a sad way I doubt if she
heard us. After awhile she was taken away from us, and, though I told her the last thing to
be sure to be careful, and do her duty by her mistress, she screamed so I don't think she minded
me one bit. The women were pretty civil, but very wild and bad looking, and I would not bear
them to touch Miss Zoë, which they were trying to do all the while. And, oh, Miss Zoë was so
brave, and, whenever I said you were all dead she said so too."

Gatty.--"How could you tell such fibs, Zoë? Madame will give you that odious Theresa Tidy's
Nineteen Maxims of Neatness and Order, to do into German, for being so naughty."

"Angel child, never, never could I punish her after her agonizing sufferings," murmured the
good kind Madame.

The strict watch kept over us began to be so wearisome we were glad when night veiled us in
her dark mantle.

It was astonishing with what composure we laid down to rest, secure in the sharks' guard for
some few hours yet, while the morrow, with all its probable horrors, seemed not to present
itself to any mind. "We trusted in God that he would deliver us."

CHAPTER XXXIX.

The morning's light brought us no change either for worse or better, excepting that under cover
of the night Smart had gone to search for our other companions. He gave us orders what to do,
in case of an attack, and departed with these comforting words "Let a score on 'em attack ye,
and I'll be bound the young gentlemen, if they be but steady, can keep 'em off. Any ways Mrs.
E. can, and if we hear shots cap'in and I will just come in the rear in nick o' time."

We sat composedly down to such breakfast as we had, which led to an examination as to what
had been brought up. We had plenty of water, bread, yams, and potatoes. No little girl had
forgotten her parrot, or the boys their monkeys; in fact Felix declared his had been very useful,
as he made him carry two great potatoes. "But," said Lilly, "you had to carry him, so it made
no great difference."

"Moreover," says Felix, "I brought my two hens, because they lay eggs, and Tommy is so fond
of eggs."

Lilly.--"I do think you love Smart more than any of us, more than your Mother."

Felix.--"Oh! any body may have the other egg, but I must keep one for my Tommy. He has never
been quite well since he was with those brutes. And I am his doctor he says, so I order him
eggs. And if I bid him do it, I know he would eat twenty, one after another."

Mother.--"How odd it seems to Schillie, our laughing at all this nonsense of the children,
when we certainly are in a very uncomfortable position. We seem to think we are in no danger,
now we have got the captain and Smart to help us, and I doubt if we were ever in a worse predicament
than now."

Schillie.--"Predicament or not, it's extremely nasty not being allowed any water to wash with,
and I shall owe Hargrave a grudge all my life. Here we have been accustomed to bathe two or
three times a-day, now stewed to death we are only allowed sufficient water to send bread down
our throats, that would otherwise stick there."

Mother.--"I wish that may be our greatest inconvenience; it's all very well for Smart to say
that we are in no danger, but if these people keep staring at us and watching us all day as
they did yesterday what are we to do? They'll stare us out, let alone the chance of our being
broiled to death. I feel quite sure Madame will have a brain fever if we don't take care."

Schillie.--"Well don't fuss. We can last out a week of this work, perhaps, and then we shall
at all events be less fat for the fishes. I intend to try the depths of those caverns before
I put myself in the power of that pirate captain."

I shuddered as she pointed down to the blue waters, through whose depths we could see endless
caverns of fantastically shaped coral.

"Oh! Ma'am, Ma'am," cried Jenny, "they are coming up." We ran for our weapons, concealing them
as well as we could, and then stood on the defensive, Schillie on one side of the path and
I on the other, the rest all ready to hand us the guns. "Shoot, Schillie, shoot," I said, "hit
the foremost man, and he'll tumble over the others."

"I am trying, I am indeed, but don't you know I cannot even kill a wasp! Hang me if I can do
it," said Schillie, turning white as a sheet, and letting her gun drop. Steadily Otty raises
his gun, fires, and the foremost man falls, knocking over two others, and causing great confusion.
Felix, by way of calming it, fires his gun right into the middle of them.

Their imprecations were loud and deep, and their rage seemed boundless as they looked up at
their two little antagonists. One man dead, two hurt. "Very good boys," say we. But the pirates
were not to be driven back in this manner. It was too humiliating to be repulsed by two boys.
They seemed speculating as to what had become of Smart, he was evidently not with us. So once
more they essayed the ascent, sheltering themselves as well as they could from the guns, by
creeping under cover of the ledges of rock. "Now let's all be firm this time," we whispered,
"for shoot them we must." Schillie took a great gulp of water, seized her gun, and once more
we all stood ready. "Let them come quite close," said Oscar.

But a fresh person appeared on the scene of action, whose shrill screams told her name better
than anything. Not that anybody seemed hurting or molesting her, but attracted, I suppose,
by the sound of the guns, she had ventured forth from her hiding place, and discovered us all
roosting at the top of the rock. Not being able to entertain more than one idea at a time,
and that idea being since her separation from us solely how she could rejoin, it was not a
matter of wonder, that to see us, was to make her rush down towards us. It never entered her
limited capacity to think that the pirates might object to the re-union. However they showed
themselves most civil and polite towards Mrs. Hargrave, though we on the rock did not give
them credit for acting entirely from disinterested motives.

Schillie.--"Upon my life! if they are not going to let that mad woman come up here. You may
be sure, June, they have some motive for this gratuitous kindness. I dare say they think such
an ass of a woman will be more likely to do us harm than good by her presence. Well! any body
may help her up that likes, I won't."

"Nor I, nor I," sounded on all sides.

But there was no need for us to offer, for the amiable pirates were kindly assisting her up
themselves. Little did Mrs. Hargrave dream that they were making a convenient shield of her
most precious self and that if we hoped to execute our former manœuvre we should have to send
our bullets through her first. She thought of nothing but being again amongst us, and scrambled
and struggled towards us, screaming the whole time.

Oscar.--"Mother, I must shoot her, there is no help for it. If one of those fellows gets footing
on here, we may as well give ourselves up. You see he is close behind her."

Mother.--"We will just make one effort. Wait till she is so near that I can grasp hold of her,
and then shoot; she must take her chance."

With the greatest coolness the brave boy did as he was bid; and I had no sooner grasped the
woman than he fired. With a squall that no one could think proceeded out of human lips, she
lost her footing and held on by me, and if Schillie had not had firm hold of me, Serena and
Sybil of her, I must have gone over with Hargrave and the pirate. As it was, he fell dead,
and we dragged her up, and, pulling her to some distance, we never stayed to enquire if she
was wounded or not, but ran back to our posts. They were swarming up, just under a ledge, ready
to make a bolt out upon us if we looked off one moment. "Get stones, little ones," whispered
Serena, "they will help us, perhaps." Now they bolt. We all fire simultaneously. They retreat
again, some wounded, but none dead. We took up the second relay of guns, Schillie carrying
off the others to reload.

"In the name of all that's horrible," we heard her say, in a loud angry voice, "what are you
doing here?"

Hargrave.--"I am not going to be shot at and killed by those dreadful guns any more, and, besides,
the pirates gave me to understand down there as the sun would soon set the powder in a blaze,
and we should all be blown up. Look at me, bleeding like a pig, and half my ear and one of
my best ear-rings gone. No, no, though I was dead, as I thought, I was determined to throw
the powder and shot over the rock, that you might be safe, if I died the next minute."

"Bring me that rope, Lilly," said Schillie, in a voice of concentrated rage. Gatty sprung to
help her, and in two minutes the foolish woman was tied, with her hands behind her back, to
one of the palm trees, and they returned to help us, as best we could be helped. We trusted
that Smart would hear the firing, and come to our assistance before all hope was gone. But
the pirates themselves ceased their warfare against us, finding the stones quite as destructive
as the guns; besides, they seemed to be in a great state of uncertainty and trouble among themselves,
and had so many consultations, and talked at such a rate, that we lost ourselves in conjectures
as to what it could be all about. "They are in a mighty rage against us, I think, for killing
the two men," said Oscar. "They don't want to hurt us, apparently," said Serena, "as they never
fixed their guns at us." "Why, my dear child, don't you see that is against their interests
to hurt any of us," said Schillie, "they want to sell us, or some such blessed thing."

Gatty (demurely).--"I don't think the king will sell you, little Mother."

Schillie.--"None of your nonsense. Miss. I'll marry you to him if you don't mind, and a regular
dun duckity mud-coloured spouse you will have."

Gatty.--"If you please, little Mother, you are and have been so cross to me since we came up here."

Schillie.--"And no wonder, you young noodle, talking such nonsense, and behaving like a young
ape when we are in such danger; and June is just as bad, encouraging you in all this stuff."

Mother.--"Come, don't let us quarrel, night is coming on. Go to bed, children. You and I must
watch, Schillie."

Schillie.--"And I, feeling like a dead dog, wanting a week's sleep at least."

Mother.--"Then Hargrave shall help me."

Schillie.--"Help the pirates you mean; but who has looked after that female lately?"

We went to see her, and luckily she was unable to have her feelings wounded by any remark that
might have been bottling up against her, for through her nose she gave audible demonstrations
that she considered her troubles and sorrows over, and that any remonstrances on our parts
would only be regarded as an unpleasant dream of the night.

"What a dirty draggle-tailed thing she looks," said Schillie, "in all that worn-out old finery.
Why cannot she dress like us and Jenny in these serviceable dresses?"

"Oh, she made a particular request to me," I answered, "not to dress in our island costume,
and asked leave to use all our old things to make herself, what she called, respectable. But
are you really so tired you cannot watch?"

Schillie.--"To be sure not; you don't think I am going to let you watch without me, only I
am regularly done up, and think it would be rather a good plan to get shot that I might have
some rest."

Mother.--"Fie, Schillie, you forget what you are saying."

Schillie.--"I dare say I am very wicked, but don't bother me now; keep your scolding until
we get out of this mess, if we ever do."

CHAPTER XL.

Towards midnight, a sound in the water made our hearts beat. Either the pirates meant to storm
us at night, or Smart and the captain were attempting to join us. Calling the girls, we set
them to watch the rope ladder, which we let down on the one side, while we watched the pathway
on the other.

The tide was ebbing, though our rock was still wholly surrounded by water, yet not sufficient
to make the sharks any protection to us. It was this which made us so anxious, for there were
such a few hours in the day during which the pirates could attack us, and they had been so
unexpectedly repulsed, we had but little doubt they would attempt a night assault if possible,
and for this the tide now suited very well, and we could not hope that they would be ignorant
of the advantage.

The sounds advanced on one side, though still so faint and designedly smothered we could distinguish
nothing to lead us to know whether friends or foes were coming. Now, whoever they were, they
certainly had landed at the foot of the rock. We instinctively each grasped a stone.

"The Lord be thankit, captain; I do consate as we have found the pathway," in Smart's tones,
rose up to our delighted ears, and we grasped their hands with heartfelt pleasure as they severally
reached the top. We had, however, a drawback to our pleasure, for Smart had been wounded looking
for Mrs. Hargrave. The necessity of binding his wound and restoring his exhausted strength,
prevented us from thinking of getting off to the ship then; besides, we had little more than
an hour's darkness left us, and it would have taken that time to move Madame alone. So, after
making Smart as comfortable as we could, Schillie and I ran off to take some rest, in the full
assurance that half our cares were over, now that we had got our two able-bodied defenders
among us again. Besides, no further responsibility rested on our shoulders, and that was so
great a relief we were asleep almost before we laid down.

CHAPTER XLI.

The imperturbable Hargrave presented herself the next morning as perfectly rested, and ready
to dress her mistress, and put her hair (now for so long neglected) into proper order. A piece
of coolness and effrontery that so surprised me I remained quite dumb.

Not so the young ones; but I am ashamed to repeat all that was said, for, though they had right
on their side, the unfortunate woman was set upon by all, and if tongues could sting, she would
not have been alive now. At last she sat down in a remote corner of the rock, to weep and bewail
herself, thinking, I dare say, that she had escaped from one set of savages into another. And,
though she derived some consolation part of the time in what she called "tidying herself,"
she shed many a tear over her torn garments and battered appearance, declaring that she had
had her clothes ruined by the rough way in which the captain and Smart had dragged her about.
"Say that again," said Felix, "and I must spit at you to show my contempt."

That the captain and Smart had joined us soon became known among the pirates, and if they had
been so severely repulsed before by two boys, it was madness attempting another assault.

So they set about means of devising how they could dislodge us, without endangering their own
lives. Madame's increasing illness became our great care now, she was becoming delirious, and
there was no possibility of subduing the fever upon this baking rock.

"A little cooling lime juice, Ma'am, I would venture to advise," said Hargrave.

"And who has put a stop to our having that?" was uttered on various sides, in various indignant
tones.

Hargrave shrunk back into her corner again, while the captain said, "I will draw up some sea
water, with which you must bathe her head. Smart's wound will fester I doubt; we have nothing
here to ease that, I am grieved to say."

Middle day came, when the heat was greatest. We lay gasping, half dead with fatigue, heat,
and fears as to what would be our fate. Suddenly we were roused by Smart's voice, who could
not rest for the pain of his wound. "Be sharp, be sharp," he cried, "they are throwing lighted
brands up here, we shall be on fire in a minute, and roast meat in ten." We flew in every direction,
and threw them off as fast as they could throw them on. It was hotter work for them than us
and, seeing us so active, they ceased for awhile. The captain then cut away great square plots
of brushwood as best he could, to prevent much harm accruing in case they tried their brands again.

While thus occupied, Sybil came running to me, all in tears, and wringing her hands. "Oh, I
have killed him, I am afraid he is dead," she cried.

"How? who?" we exclaimed.

"I only meant to frighten him, I would not hurt anybody. Oh, what shall I do?"

We ran with her to the extreme end of the rock, and, looking down, we saw on a ledge below,
a large stone with a man beneath it.

"I was running here," continued the weeping Sybil, "to see if any brands were thrown in this
direction, and, peeping down, I saw a man scrambling up, very near the top. He did not see
me, but I had no time to lose, so I just pushed that great stone with all my might. You know
we had remarked this stone before as being just in the position to roll down, if it was only
on the other side. I do not know how I managed, but over it went, and fell directly on him;
and, oh, I am afraid it has killed him. What shall I do, I shall never be happy again."

Gatty.--"Not happy again, Sib, I only wish I had done it."

Sybil.--"But, sister, do you think he is really dead? Can we not go down and save him, or take
that great stone off him? Oh dear, oh dear, how could I do such a cruel thing."

Gatty.--"Oh, Sib, Sib, what a goose you are. You have done a glorious thing. I only wish it
had been me. Think, Serena, of Sib having killed a pirate all by herself and we have not even
cut off the little finger of one. It is too provoking."

We were obliged to take the poor tender-hearted girl away from the spot, and she shook and
shivered with remorse all the rest of the day. We comforted her as well as we could by saying
he must have died immediately (for dead he was without any doubt), and he had fallen on a spot
where the sea would carry away all remains of him before morning.

The little ones looked at poor trembling aunt Sib with the greatest admiration, Gatty with
envy and jealousy, while Serena, like a true tender-hearted little sister, comforted and kissed
her, telling her how gentle, good, and kind she was to everybody, and what a good thing she
had done for us, and how, perhaps, this was the identical pirate who had stolen her, and that
she was not to be unhappy at what perhaps we might all have to do ere long. And this set us
talking upon our plans.

"Don't you think, captain," said Schillie, "we may get off to the ship to-night?"

Captain.--"We must try, Madam. If they should chance to go on board, they will find out how
busy we have been there, and they will then take measures to prevent us executing any such
plan. But I have lost my right hand in Smart."

Gatty and Oscar.--"Oh, captain, send me for the boat. I can swim like a duck, and it's not
a hundred yards from here."

Mother.--"My dear children, the sharks."

Oscar.--"I don't mind them, Mother."

Gatty.--"They will have a good mouthful if they swallow me; and if I am as troublesome inside
a shark as you, little Mother, say I sometimes am here, I shall not agree with him at all."

Schillie.--"Now, Gatty, I won't have you running into any danger. I don't mean to say you are
not extremely troublesome, but still I have got used to you, and I won't have you expose yourself
to any danger."

Captain.--"I think I can manage to make them both of use, and yet without much danger, I trust.
I would not have a hair of their precious heads lost."

Gatty flushed up like the setting sun with pleasure; Oscar nodded in approbation, while I said,
"Then it is decided, at all events, we get off to-night, if we can."

"Man proposes, and God disposes."

"Sister, look," said Serena, in a low sorrowful voice. Ah me, did I see rightly? With every
sail set, that ominous, black, hateful vessel, the pirate ship, hove in sight, and ere we could
collect our senses, or believe our eyes, she was anchoring in the bay.

CHAPTER XLII.

We sat down on the carpet of desperation and the stools of despair.

The pirates on shore seemed as bewildered as we were. The pirates on board seemed in a great
state of confusion and uproar. A general running, hurrying, and scurrying took place among
them all.

While those of the ship pointed vehemently to the sea, they of the land gesticulated violently
towards the caverns, and both were equally eccentric in their observations regarding us. At
last regular parties were organized, who began systematically, at the same time with the utmost
rapidity, to unload their vessel; while the pirate king, hoisting a white flag, and attended
by a few ferocious-looking followers, advanced towards our rock. By the captain's advice we
hoisted a white rag of some sort, as a token of friendship, and in silence waited the result.

In bad French the pirate captain offered us terms for capitulation. He pointed out how useless
it was for us now to think of repelling such numbers. That if we would come down quietly, we
should be received with open arms ("and cut throats," murmured some one behind me); that they
would engage their most sacred word of honour they would do us no harm ("much honour in a pirate,"
murmured the same voice); that there was plenty of room on the island for us all, and that
we might choose which side we pleased, and they would take the other. All they wanted was peace
and our friendship.

Our dear captain shook his head at all this civility, and fairly laughed at the offer of friendship.
But he turned, as in duty bound, being spokesman, to take our opinion.

Simultaneously we all rose together, and letting the pirates have a full and perfect view of
our whole party (save the two invalids) for the first time, with one voice we all exclaimed,
"No! no!" Though evidently surprised at seeing what a helpless party we were, it yet seemed
to give him but greater zest to persuade us to come down.

His offers became more generous, his civilities greater, his promises most profuse and tempting,
but, invariably and simultaneously, without waiting for our captain's appeal, rose the decided
"No! no!"

With subdued oaths and imprecations he left us, having been several times interrupted by urgent
entreaties from his companions. Leaving some young boys to watch us, he repaired to his companions,
and they now seemed wholly occupied in emptying the ship and stowing everything away in the
caverns. The bay was one scene of activity and bustle.

We sat quiet, knowing that night was drawing on, when our last effort for escape must be made.

Oscar.--"Captain, you never told us what happened to you in the caverns, and how Smart found you."

Captain.--"I found him, Sir, instead of his finding me. I kept the entrance blocked up as long
as I could, but I could not get a good shot at any of the enemy on account of that demented
woman, who was always in the way. It was enough that as fast as they took out one stone I piled
up another, until, finding that they were getting too many for me, and knowing that you had
had ample time to place yourselves in safety, I swung myself up by the rope to the top of the
cavern, and, drawing it up, I lay there concealed, watching their movements. Such a pandemonium
scene I never beheld. Luckily their eagerness, curiosity, and excitement made them forget Mrs.
Hargrave, who sat down and howled like a hungry cat, not, however, before she had discovered
to them every secret corner, by running madly to look for you. I suppose, for her sake, we
must allow, poor woman, she is a little touched in the brain, for I found her, after everything
was quiet, and the pirates had gone down to look for you, looking over some musty old caps
and bonnets, and fitting up for herself a bundle of clothes. I suggested a little food and
water would be more useful, but she stopped my mouth by saying it was her duty to appear decent
and tidy for her mistress's sake. And such trouble I had with her besides. I am persuaded that
woman would never be guided by mortal tongue. Many times I thought to leave her to her fate
and to go and see after you, but she was so unfit to be left, I had not the heart to do so.
Nevertheless, after getting her out of the caverns up on the top, in a well-concealed place,
where we could see nicely all round, she escaped me, for what reason neither she or any one
else could tell I think, and I lay quiet until night, when, venturing down to see if I could
join you all, after a while I heard a noise just nigh me, and, hiding behind a tree, I looked
out, and presently spied a great big fellow, standing six feet two, before me. I knew Smart
in a moment, dark as it was, but, having a mind to startle him, I took hold of his leg. Laws
me, Sirs, you should have seen how he jumped. I am sure the good old lady could not have been
more alarmed. The rest you know."

Felix.--"Poor Smart, I dare say you took hold of that very leg that's now wounded. Do you know,
Smart, Otty and I had our right and left shots."

Smart.--"Had you so, Sir. Well, I hopes you both killed your birds."

Felix.--"No, for unluckily we both shot at the same fellow, but we knocked him over clean.
We frightened them in an awful way, but cousin Schillie would not shoot."

Smart.--"How cumed that about I wonder. I reckoned her a prime one."

Felix.--"She was frightened, Smart."

Smart.--"Oh no, Sir, I'll never believe that."

Felix.--"Oh, but she was. I saw her shut her eyes when we all had to shoot together, and she
did not open them for a good minute after."

Schillie.--"Good lack, captain, what is going to happen now?"

Boats were approaching La Luna. The pirates boarded her, and, after half an hour's work, her
anchors were taken up, and she was towed to the other side of the bay, and there made secure.

Night set not in more darkly than the gloom that fell upon our hearts. We could but leave our
fates in the hand of a good and merciful Providence.

CHAPTER XLIII.

The whole night long the pirates worked hard, doing what we could not see, neither could our
captain at all understand their conduct. "If it was not too good to be true, they have been
chased," said he, "and have come into harbour to hide. Did anyone look over the sea?" he continued.
No, we had all been too much engaged.

Captain.--"Then the first thing I shall do on the dawn will be to scan the sea. Something unusual
must have occurred to put the pirates to all this pother."

With the first streak of day came the pirate captain with his flag of truce, and again made
his offers of peace, friendship, and civility, and again met with a vehement negative, though
most forlorn were now our hopes and fortunes. To our surprise we now only saw La Luna. There
was not a vestige of the pirate ship.

The pirate king had now recourse to threats, which we heard in disdainful silence. After spending
half an hour in oaths and threats, he waved his hand, and, stamping with anger, pointed to
La Luna. "I give you one hour," he cried, "if by that time you do not come down voluntarily,
I intend sweeping the top of your rock with those two guns." We looked towards the vessel;
she had been brought within gun shot, and her brass cannons were placed directly before us.
"I know," continued the pirate, "who you all are, and I have no wish to harm you, but rather
to gain the rewards offered for your recovery. Be persuaded and be reasonable."

Mother.--"Captain, what do you think, what shall we do, he speaks fair?"

Captain.--"Madam, we must not trust him. I feel sure they have some reason for this bustle
and activity all night, and I feel persuaded they have scuttled their ship and sunk her. Look
round, and you will see that when they retire into the caverns, there is not a trace of human
beings about save our own vessel, and that looks weather-beaten and old enough to have been
riding at anchor there for ages. No doubt they have concealed all traces of themselves in her.
If they get us down they will use us as hostages for their own safety, or they may murder us
at once, and thus leave no one to tell the tale of the caverns. As long as we are alive that
secret cannot be kept, and, having made a settlement here, I think there is every probability
that they will commit any crime sooner than suffer such a convenient and suitable stronghold
for them to be discovered. I trust them not, let us trust in God."

Mother.--"And you, Schillie, tell me what do you advise?"

Schillie rose up, and drawing me to the highest part of the rock, turned her broad white forehead
to the ship, while her clear eyes, darkened in their beauty by the emotions of the hour, looked
steadily down into the mouths of the guns.

Schillie.--"June, do you believe that the spirits of the departed know what occurs on earth,
and with unseen forms can visit those they love?"

June.--"I hold some such doctrine, my Schillie, but whether there is truth in it or not, the
departed alone can tell."

Schillie.--"I'll put faith in your doctrine, my mistress, and think that in an hour I may behold
my children, though unseen by them."

June.--"And is it this feeling that makes you gaze so boldly into the jaws that are so shortly
to breathe forth death to us?"

Schillie.--"It may be so, or it may be the strength given from on high for such emergencies
as these. In this awful hour I feel no fear; a sacred calm is filling my heart. My God, I feel
Thou art near; Thou knowest this is not presumption that I bow me in humility before Thy throne,
that I approach it under the shadow of my Saviour's wing."

I gazed in her face, flushed with ardour, refulgent with her inspired feelings, and thought
her half way to heaven already.

June.--"My Schillie, ere you go, take my thanks take my heartfelt gratitude with you for all
you have been to me."

Schillie.--"We go together, June, we shall not be separated in the happy pasture fields of
our immortal shepherd. You will come with me to gaze on my children, and whisper holy dreams
of goodness and truth into their childish ears to prepare them for the burdens of life, such
as we have gone through. Our fates in life were thrown together, and the last act of mercy
received from our gracious Father is this, that we die together."

June.--"But with my mortal lips and mortal heart receive my thanks, for, without you, what
should I have done? Without your brave heart and good spirit to help me I must have given way.
Without your hopeful, strong, and Godly mind I, guilty of ungrateful murmurs, should have forfeited
the right of comfort from on high. Ah! my Schillie, take my thanks, for next to my Father,
Saviour, God in heaven, what do I not owe to you?"

Schillie.--"Enough, enough, we give and take in this world. Our obligations to each other are
mutual. We have an eternity before us to settle the debt between us. Our time on earth draws
to a close. It is fit we prepare the young and weak for the fate they seem hardly to realize."

June.--"I shrink from them. Oh, my Schillie, do me a last act of kindness, and keep them from
my sight."

Schillie.--"Nay, rouse yourself, and remember you take all you love with you."

June.--"But such a death! and they so young, so beloved, so lovely and gifted, to die in so
horrible a manner."

Schillie.--"Then think of the fate you would have them live for. But one hour of mental agony,
and they are safe in their Saviour's arms."

June.--"And, oh, Schillie, one more horrible fear I have. Suppose those dreadful guns do not
fully complete their dreadful work. Think if some are left, wounded and maimed, yet more wounded
in heart at the death of those they loved."

Schillie.--"Call them, and give each their choice."

They came, but it was only to group themselves in one close embrace about us. They replied
not to the words we uttered, but looking as fearlessly as Schillie did down on the brazen mouths
of death, they turned their loving eyes in unutterable affection towards us. The beaming light
of Schillie's countenance seemed reflected on each young face, until we thought an halo of
glory already surrounded them.

The two men tenderly lifted up Madame, and laid her moaning and unconscious at our feet, and
then placed themselves on each side of the group.

"See," said Schillie, half smiling and waving her hand, "your last fear is groundless, it will
take but one of those cannon to deliver us all at the same moment from this mortal coil. Let
us lift up our hearts to God."

CHAPTER XLIV.

The minutes fled. Ever and anon a group of pirates would advance, and, as they gazed, pity,
remorse, and even admiration seemed to blend in their swarthy countenances, as they looked
at the motionless helpless group. Evidently reluctant to give the fatal signal for death, the
pirate captain restlessly paced to and fro, only taking his eyes from us to look hurriedly
on the sea. The hour was gone. The boat shot from the shore, bearing the fatal messengers of
death. The pirate captain clenched his hands, and hurried up and down, like one in despair.
Sometimes he looked as if he would speak to us, then turned more quickly away.

Our hearts beat audibly to each other. "May God take us into His safe keeping this hour," murmured
the low earnest voice of our dear captain. "Amen," was fervently uttered by all that could speak.

Still the pirate captain wavered and hesitated; but what made our captain start? A body of
pirates came forward, and drawing their chief away, began expostulating with him, and we heard
a sound behind us. "For the love of God move not," said the captain; but every ear listened.

As the sun gilds one cloud after another in rapid succession, rising higher and higher, so
did one face after another illumine with hope and deliverance as the sound became more audible.
We had heard it before, but, oh, so long ago, could it have been in our dreams? It seemed so
familiar, yet we had never heard it on the island. It sounded so homelike, though our own home
was far inland. But to British ears and British hearts could such a sound be unknown? The long,
measured, steady stroke of the oars of a man-of-war's boat broke upon our happy senses; and
yet we were silent, as if turned to stone. The conviction of our safety and deliverance sent
the once-burthened hearts in silent thankfulness to the foot of God.

"Avast there! keep under the shelter of this rock," said a man's deep voice, in a subdued tone,
"it won't do to run right into the mouths of these blackguards without a little reconnoitering."
Our captain crept silently to the side from whence the voice proceeded and hailed them. "Hollo!
here's a fellow up here, we had better settle him at once, lest he gives the alarm," said the
deep voice.

This made us all move quickly to the same place, and, as we caught sight of the gallant sailors,
who, though strangers to us, seemed each to possess the features of dear and long-lost friends,
our feelings could scarcely be restrained. An intuitive feeling that we might, by some rash
movement, lose the heavenly chance just opening to our view, kept us in iron bounds. As it
was, a sort of hub-bub did ensue, they not understanding who we were, and we caring for nothing
on this near approach of delivery. But our captain swung himself down by the rope ladder into
the boat, while we eagerly drank in every word of the precious voices and language we had thought
never to hear again, while he explained our situation. "What, the missing family so long sought
for, so deeply mourned? Now God be praised. Up there four days, battling it out. Well done!
Those blackguards shall have it double-fold. What an innocent boy with his big hat; who is
the pretty child? Is that all her own hair? I say, which is the Mother? She is tall enough
for a grenadier. Poor things, poor souls; what sufferings, what privations. All by themselves.
Hah! indeed, joined only the last year. Well, we are heart and soul at their service. Are they
all ladies, or some servants? What rum dresses. They look very picturesque up there, and you,
boatswain, must make a sketch of them for us to take home when we have settled these pirates.
Is that a boy or a girl? she's a whopper if she is a female. That short one looks cool enough
to face any danger. But don't let us waste more time, we are burning to be at them. How shall
we manage? Blown to pieces in five minutes; I'm blowed if you shall. D----n those (ah, ladies,
I beg pardon). No, no, we will attack them at once. Too few, not a bit; as if a dozen English
sailors could not knock over two score of pirates, and eat them too. Well, just as you like,
only be quick; as for restraining my men, I shall not be able to do that long, especially as
I know I can't hold in much longer myself."

Such was the disjointed conversation that reached our ears, and which we drank in with such
delight. Our captain swung himself up again, and said that another boat's crew were expected
in a few minutes; and though the sailors in this boat scouted the notion of not being able
to settle the pirates' business themselves, yet it would be as well to make assurance doubly
sure, on account of the savage nature of the pirates. They might be driven to desperation when
they saw what succour we had received.

Schillie.--"Captain, you must make haste, they are on board the vessel and loading the guns;
in a few minutes we shall be scattered into a thousand pieces."

Captain.--"What I advise is, as there is no time to lose, hold out a flag of truce, and capitulate."

"Oh no, captain," said many of us.

"You must, indeed you must; make haste. Come, begin to go down at once. Those devildoms are
only too rejoiced they have got their captain's consent, and are going to lose no time. Come,
don't lose your courage at the last hour, you will be in their power but a few minutes. That's
a sweet brave girl, now she is down you will all go."

This latter remark was addressed to Serena, whom I tried to grasp as she lightly sprang down.
We all followed, save Schillie and the two invalids. The pirates shouted with great deafening
shouts, and ran towards us, rudely grasping hold of us as we each descended. We shuddered and
shrieked with horror. The pirate king ran and brought Schillie down in spite of her struggles.
The captain was instantly seized, and would have been roughly treated, but the sailors, unable
to hear our cries and not help us, shot round the corner like a flash of lightning, and, ere
the pirates were aware of their presence, mixed in the mêlée, cutlass in hand.

Though at first the sailors gained an instantaneous advantage, the numbers against them were
so great and the pirates so desperate, that much blood must have been shed and a fierce battle
fought, but another boat appeared round the rock, most vigorously propelled, another, and again
another. Now we were saved, God be praised! No more doubts, no more fears. We withdrew to a
sheltered place on the cliffs, thankful, oh, how thankful God alone can tell. The pirates fled
in every direction, but not before our captain, raising his gun, sent a shot after the pirate
king that put an end to his reign and his love for ever.

CHAPTER XLV.

An officer was sent to take our wishes, while the other sailors, with their captain and lieutenants,
proceeded to pursue and exterminate the pirates. The fresh boats' crews being so eager in the
chase that they knew nothing more about us than that some prisoners had been found. The captain,
therefore, politely sent an officer to attend to us, with a message to say he was too busy
to do so himself. We learnt from this officer that our captain's conjecture was quite true
about the pirate vessel having been chased; and they knew well enough that, once seeing them,
Capt. Bute would scour the sea in search of them.

They made for "YR YNYS UNYG" as a last chance, knowing that few but themselves were aware that
the great Anaconda was dead, and they trusted that the fear of it would prevent any one from
landing on the island.

Their intentions were all frustrated by finding us all perched upon the rock, and it became
a matter of policy to get rid of us somehow. They were unwilling to harm us at first, wishing
to reap a golden harvest by claiming the rewards for our recovery; but our obstinacy in refusing
to come down drove the pirate captain much beyond his own wishes. Had Capt. Bute's boats been
half an hour later there would have been but little of our sad remains left. To his eagerness
and skill in following the pirate vessel, and anchoring the Turtle side of the island under
cover of the night, we, humanly speaking, owed our lives. May God be praised for all his mercies.

Madame and Smart were first to be considered. It was agreed they must both be taken on board
the man-of-war for medical advice. I was to go with them, and Felix was to accompany me to
attend on Smart. The rest were to be employed in making preparations for our final departure,
besides getting La Luna ready for our once more taking possession of her.

But we had never been separated before for more than a few hours, and the leave taking was
quite a business. So I promised to return in the evening, after seeing Madame and Smart comfortable
and well cared for. We must talk over our joys as well as sorrows, and, hearing that there
were some ladies and servants on board, I the more readily agreed to return. Madame was let
down from the rock with great difficulty, utterly unconscious of anything but her own delicious
thoughts.

In Turtle harbour, not a mile from our memorable bay, we found the ship, and it was with indescribable
emotion that I climbed on to her deck. With the tenderness of women the kind sailors lifted
up the invalids, while I was shewn down into the cabin to beseech the good offices of the ladies
in it. There were two of them; one reclining on a sofa, hearing a little girl read, whose golden
hair hung round her fair face, as the glory surrounds the cherubim; the other and oldest of
the two was sketching from the cabin window. The lovely fair face of the recumbent one was
raised as I entered.

Why did I start? Have I seen that face before, those calm clear blue eyes, the delicately-formed
nose, the beautiful expression? Be calm, my heart, beat not so wildly. "Poor woman, she is
ill, what is the matter with her?" said the lady at the window. I knew her too, so well, so
perfectly, I wondered she could speak so calmly to me. I forgot my strange appearance, my island
dress, my grizzled hair, and brow burnt by the ardent sun.

The younger lady gazed at me, but said nothing. "Pray be seated," said the sweet soft voice
of the sketcher, "you look so ill, I will bring you some water." The other lady still gazed,
was still silent, but she half rose from her sofa. I could not withdraw my eyes from the well-known
face, but I grasped the kind hand that placed the chair for me, while my breath laboured under
the convulsive swellings of my heart. "She must be one of the pirate women, and some of her
people have been killed," said the elder lady. "Pray, Meta speak to her, and don't gaze at
her so fixedly."

I tried to speak, it was impossible. I clung to the one sister, and held out my hand imploringly
to the other. She sprang up, and rushed towards me. She pushed my hair from my forehead; her
colour came and went like the evening clouds. "Oh, June, June, my sister, my beloved one, it
must be you. I cannot be mistaken. I should know that face through every change. Speak to me,
speak but one word, call me by my name, if only to ease my heart. My long-lost, my own sister,
relieve me, relieve my bursting heart."

Faintly breathing the word "Meta," I remember no more. I sunk upon the ground, but I felt loved
arms round me, and the bliss of heaven seemed to take possession of my senses. I awoke to the
blessed reality my loving sisters were near me, they soothed me with sweet words, kissed me
with sisters' kisses, asked nothing, said nothing but endearing sentences, and suffered my
overburdened heart to relieve itself to the full.

The anxieties and cares of the past years, the fear and anguish of the last few days, rolled
away like a dark cloud from my troubled brain, while peace, happiness, and rest flooded my
heart to overflowing. The transition from utter misery to perfect bliss seemed too much for
me at first; I had not felt until then the forlorn and hopeless state to which we had been
reduced, and how death in its most dreadful form had nearly severed all I lived for from the
earth they were so formed to enjoy and ornament. But, it is idle thus to write, joy does not
often kill, so having seen our invalids well cared for, and introduced my lovely little savage
boy to his aunts, my beloved sisters accompanied me back to my companions. We found the whole
of the pirate gang secured, and going on board La Luna, ah! what joy. The surprise, the ecstasy,
the happy welcome, the boundless joy, the innumerable questions. It is impossible to describe it.

We found we owed the meeting with our beloved relatives to the following circumstance:--After
my brother's leave was up, and his ship's commission expired, instead of spending his time
at home, he, with Sir Walter Mayton, chartered a vessel and determined between them to spend
all the time his services were not required by his Queen in searching for us. My two sisters
had begged to accompany them, one with her husband and children, and my eldest sister to be
her companion. The Esperanza, their vessel, was something similar to La Luna, only larger and
carrying six guns. They had been out six months, when, owing to the Esperanza requiring some
little repairs, the party, consisting of my two sisters, Mr. J., and the children, accepted
Capt. Bute's invitation to take a little cruise with him. He was in command of her Majesty's
S. H., which had superseded my brother's ship on the piratical coast.

Accidentally coming across the pirates' vessel, Capt. Bute had given chase, and pursued her
so sharply, that, under cover of the night, he had got the H. into safe anchorage on the lea
side of the island without the pirates' knowledge. The rest of the tale has been told.

CHAPTER XLVI.

And now we were all on board La Luna, Capt. Bute spared us a crew; he remains behind to settle
everything about the island, and to go afterwards to the other rendezvous of the pirates, there
to rescue the remainder of our crew should they yet survive. Our captain gave him all particulars
where to find it.

But we were not to be separated from our newly found relatives. Oh no! they came with us. We
collected everything we wished to take from the island; the children's endless parrots, monkeys,
shells, and pet things. Schillie took nothing, but her last act was to stoop down, and take
a lengthened draught from the lovely stream. Florence, my eldest sister, made sketches of every
place interesting to us, and, finally, we bade adieu to "YR YNYS UNYG." Seated on the deck
we saw the lovely island fade from our sight, with mixed feelings certainly but no regret.
We had none for it, because we could only think of the happiness opening before us. The lost
were found, the deeply-mourned restored, the mother given back to her little ones, the fondly-loved
children to their sorrowing parents. There was rapture in these thoughts. No wonder that our
little home, our little haven of so many conflicting emotions, faded from our sight for ever
without a tear from any eye.

We were to shape our course so as to fall in with the Esperanza, which we did in about ten
days. During those days fancy alone can paint the innumerable questions asked, the pang and
half fear ere they were answered. We lived a life time, it seemed, in those ten days.

We had had no opportunity of restoring our pretty La Luna to her original beauty, therefore
we did not wonder (my brother being on board, and we looking so practical) that the Esperanza
bore down upon us in a menacing and warlike manner.

We submissively struck our colours, and ere long were boarded by my brother and Sir Walter
Mayton. At the request of my sisters we all remained below, that they might have a little amusement.
But it was hardly possible for us to wait. However, my brother quickly put an end to the suspense
himself; for, in his quick decisive manner, down he came into the cabin, requesting to see
the ship's papers. And, what papers did he see? The whole party in the cabin! He gave but one
look, he comprehended it all, and, ere I thought it could be him, he had wrapt me in his arms;
he wept with joy and thankfulness, and he could not cease to gaze at us all with unutterable
emotions of pleasure. We forgot Sir Walter Mayton until we heard his well-known firm tread
stamping above, as if impatient at the Captain's delay. We determined to have a little amusement
with him, and yet not keep him long in suspense. We sent the two boys up, and watched the effect.
He started, and looked keenly at them, he threw his cigar away, and then we heard his loud
cheery voice say, "Whose boys are you?" They said nothing, but each took hold of a kind hand,
and smiled up in his face.

"Boys, I bid you tell me, who you are," and his voice husky, while we could see he trembled.

"It is us uncle, dear uncle, here we are all safe," and throwing their arms round his neck,
they half smothered him with kisses, Lilly joining her brothers.

"But your Mother, my children, are you all safe? have I none to answer for?" "All safe, quite
safe," said I, appearing immediately.

"Ready to thank you for all you have done for us, the weary years we have been away. For your
kind thoughts, your indefatigable exertions, we are here to thank you, and prove our gratitude
by acts as well as thanks." "Thank God, Thank God," he said. "This hour repays me for all my care."

And now what happiness, nothing to mar it, but a few gales of wind, which only blew us nearer
to the homes our hearts longed for. Madame was nearly well, Smart only limped a little, and
was in high spirits at hearing that not only was Mrs. Smart alive and well, but that Jem had
become a young gamekeeper, and they had wanted for nothing during his absence.

"So you were right Master Felix, about the washing, she has done well at that," said Smart,
"and a mighty good washer she be, sending me out with shirts as white as any Lord's."

We sailed in company, and it was hard to say which ship contained the merriest party, La Luna
or the Esperanza.

We touched at St. Helena, and there picked up another brother to our great delight and pleasure.

The ships were gazetted there as the Esperanza and her consort, that the news of it getting
to England before we did might prepare the beloved family in some degree for what was in store.

THE LAST CHAPTER.

Once more we will return to that pretty drawing-room, and visit the kind sisters, the grey-headed
father, the loving mother.

Her sweet calm face had lost its painful expression; years have gone by; time has come with
its healing wings; she is nearer the hour when a meeting with the lost ones may be promised
her in heaven. One sister is married and gone. The dark-haired sister is as usual employed
in making brilliant flowers grow beneath her skilful fingers, like the magic work of the fairies.
The pretty face of the other beams with content and sweetness. The door opens, and the grey-headed
Father appears with the newspapers.

"My dear," says he, "what can this mean? Here is the Esperanza mentioned on her way home to
England with her consort."

The Mother.--"Oh no, that must be a mistake. She has no consort; besides we do not expect our
Esperanza home for six months at least."

The Father.--"But you see it is in the ships' news. 'The brig Esperanza, Capt. C., touched
at St. Helena with her consort, and brings home Capt. C. of the Royal Engineers.'"

The Mother.--"There really seems no mistake indeed, especially Bertrand's having joined his
brother. I suppose Richard must have captured some pirate or slaver's vessel. You know he took
out a license to do so."

The Father.--"Very likely; but still I think we should have seen some account of the exploit
in the papers if he had done so."

Emily.--"Especially the Esperanza being a private vessel. I really think, Mama, it must be
a mistake."

The door opens, and the best and kindest aunt in the world appears, who, having no children
of her own, opens her large heart, and takes in those of her only sister's.

The Aunt.--"Don't be surprised to see me, but my husband has seen in to-day's paper that the
Esperanza is coming home. I thought, sister, they were to have been absent a year?"

The Mother.--"So I expected, and we are quite puzzled about it, having seen the news as well
as yourself. I am almost inclined to agree with Emily that it is a mistake."

The dear Aunt.--"Then I am miserably disappointed. When I heard it I was in the greatest hope
you would have some news to tell me, so I ordered Osman and the brougham, and came here so
fast that I am quite in fear for the dear fellow. Cecy, pray let me ask you for a little bread
to give him, and do come down and look at him, he is in such beauty that Robert is quite proud
of him."

So they all went down to look at the beloved horse, and Robert the groom heard him praised
to his heart's content.

The dear Aunt.--"Well, now then, sister, I will say farewell, but we will do what you so kindly
wish us, and come to-morrow for the whole week; by this means we shall be on the spot to hear
the earliest news if you get any, for I must own I cannot bear suspense, and my Florence being
in the Esperanza doubles my anxieties."

The Mother.--"We shall be charmed to see you, dear sister, so, until then, farewell."

On the morrow, the kind aunt and uncle were not the only visitors. Little Winny's father and
mother, uncle Parry, the "next heir," all came pouring in, as well as innumerable letters from
kind and anxious friends; but still no news by the post.

They had all seen the report of the Esperanza, and all had flocked to B----, as head quarters,
to learn what had brought her home so much sooner than was expected. However, they were invited
to remain the week out at that ever open most hospitable mansion.

In the middle of the week came Gatty's beloved parents. Zoë's father and mother lived so near
that they could have daily intercourse; so daily everybody met, daily everybody talked, and
daily everybody agreed that it was all a mistake, and that this Esperanza was not their Esperanza.

The summer is coming on rapidly. It is the 2nd of June, the golden laburnums hang their rich
pendant clusters over the fragrant lilacs, all nature seemed rejoicing, and every tree had
its living chorus, for no noisy gun or treacherous snare was ever heard or seen in that pretty
garden.

"I don't mean to stay in the house this lovely evening," said Gatty's father. "Come Emily,
come Julie, let us sit out on the lawn, and smell the fresh wholesome scent of the earth, and
hear this delightful evening hymn of the birds. But do you expect company? Here is a carriage,
and surely another behind it. No! it stops. But do my eyes deceive me? Who is in this first
carriage? The dear crew of the Esperanza! Welcome, welcome. Bertrand too. My dear girls how
well you look. Ah, Sir Walter, welcome, welcome home."

They are clasped in the arms of everybody, and welcomed home, as those who go to B---- are
generally welcomed. The new brother also, after six years' absence in New Zealand. Everybody
seems overwhelmed with delight and pleasure. Whatever curiosity, whatever wonder, whatever
fear might have run through the heart of each at seeing the beloved crew of the Esperanza so
much sooner than was expected, all was now swallowed up in the joy of seeing them.

The old and valued servants crowded to meet them, and congratulate them on their safe return.
"My goodness me," said Anne, the housekeeper, after she had made her courtesies and said her
say, "if the great gates are not open and the beggars coming in. Oh, Thomas, (turning to the
dear aunt's servant) whatever must we do, what a queer set. Be off, good people. I must see
for some men to turn them out. I don't think really that they can be anything respectable.
None of our people would peep and look in like that. I cannot make them out at all, Thomas.
They have a look about them anyways but respectable."

Thomas.--"To be sure, Anne, they look Furrineers, and they never is so neat and trim as our
people."

Anne.--"Furrineers, then, Thomas, help me to turn them out, we wants nothing but English here.
Be off, good people, be off, we harbours no vermin here. Eh, but they're a strange set."

My brother ran to her. "Don't disturb those people, Anne, they are very good people," said he.

Anne.--"But so unmannerly, Mr. Bertrand, coming in at such a particklar time."

Mr. Bertrand.--"Never mind, Anne, they are friends of mine."

Anne.--"Friends of yours, oh, indeed, Sir; well we did not know that, Thomas, did we? and how
could we guess, so queer as they look. Surely now Mr. Bernard, you have never been and gone
and brought home some New Zealand savages?"

Mr. Bertrand.--"Yes, Anne, I have, and that tall woman in the hat is to be my wife."

Anne.--"Oh my goodness me, Mr. Bertrand, none of your jokes to me if you please, Sir. I don't
believe a word you say, Sir, and the more I look at them people the more I am sure they are
no friends of yours, Sir. Such outlandish folk, in them big hats and those long bed-gownish
things, they are not respectable. I must----"

Mr. Bertrand.--"Hush, hush, Anne, they are dear friends of mine; wait, wait just a few minutes;
hearken now to what my brother says to your master."

With trembling voice the dear brother was making the aged Father understand; Meta threw herself
sobbing with delight into the arms of the long-mourning Mother, trying to tell her of the joy
that yet remained to be told; Florence, with sweet touching voice, was preparing the dear enthusiastic
aunt. Everybody was beginning to feel and know that there was something still to tell, some
event yet to occur, something much beyond what they had yet felt or experienced. But who could
look in the agitated faces of the travellers and not see that it was joy which so overcame
them? Who could see the radiant smiles shining through the irrepressible tears and not feel
a thrill of happiness shoot through them?

And the poor beggars at the great gate, why were they in tears? why so agitated? Oh, make haste,
they cannot wait much longer, their impatience is boundless. Think how many years they have
been deprived of the sight of those sweet faces, the hearing those dear voices, the feeling
those soft kisses. Gatty, Gatty, startle not your Father so, restrain your impatience; he wonders
now. Who calls, that wild and passionate "Papa, Papa." Just a few short moments to wait. See,
see, my Mother's eyes; she must know now, she is prepared. Almost before the signal is given,
before the arms are open, Zoë rushes to her Mother. Winny, Schillie, Gatty (the first of all,
with a bound like an antelope) all fly to their own people, and we three, Sybil, Serena, and
I, into whose arms we fell I know not; I remember nothing, I can tell nothing but that I heard
my grey-headed Father, in a low, distinct, and solemn manner, say--

"Now, Lord, lettest Thou Thy servant depart this life in peace."

FINIS.

Transcriber's Endnotes:

    The original publication contained many typographical errors. Minor
    misprints have been corrected without note, however the following
    amendments deserve further note:

    Chapter Titles

        The original sequence skipped the numbers 10, 26, 31, 37, 38
        whilst using 39 twice. With no discrepancy in the page numbers,
        the chapters have been renumbered to avoid confusion.

    Hargrave/Havord

        The character initially introduced as Hargrave is referred to
        as Havord from Chapter XXIX to part-way through Chapter XXXVI.
        In light of the poor typography throughout the book, all
        instances of Havord have been changed to Hargrave.