The Happy Family

                          BY

                      B.M. BOWER

                    (B.M. SINCLAIR)

                       AUTHOR OF

   "Chip of the Flying U," "The Range Dwellers," "Her Prairie
   Knight," "The Lure of the Dim Trails," "The Lonesome Trail,"
   "The Long Shadow," Etc.

                G.W. DILLINGHAM COMPANY

                  PUBLISHERS NEW YORK

      1907, 1909, 1910, by STREET & SMITH.
       1910, by G.W. DILLINGHAM COMPANY.

                  The Happy Family.

                     To B.W.V.

   "... met the Ananias of the cow camp. I have knocked about cow
   camps, mining camps, railroad and telegraph camps, and kicked
   up alkali dust for many a weary mile on the desert. Yet
   wherever I went I never failed to meet him. He is part and
   parcel of every outfit.... He is indispensable, irresistible,
   and incorrigible; and while in but few cases can he be held a
   thing of beauty, he is certainly a joy forever--at least to
   those who have known his type with some degree of
   understanding...."

                                              From a letter.

                       CONTENTS.

     ANANIAS GREEN                            7
     BLINK                                   35
     MISS MARTIN'S MISSION                   61
     HAPPY JACK, WILD MAN                    90
     A TAMER OF WILD ONES                   118
     ANDY, THE LIAR                         178
     "WOLF! WOLF!"                          210
     FOOL'S GOLD                            241
     LORDS OF THE POTS AND PANS             269

       *       *       *       *       *

                THE HAPPY FAMILY

       *       *       *       *       *

ANANIAS GREEN

Pink, because he knew well the country and because Irish, who also knew it well, refused pointblank
to go into it again even as a rep, rode alone except for his horses down into the range of
the Rocking R. General roundup was about to start, down that way, and there was stock bought
by the Flying U which ranged north of the Bear Paws.

It so happened that the owner of the Rocking R was entertaining a party of friends at the ranch;
it also happened that the friends were quite new to the West and its ways, and they were intensely
interested in all pertaining thereto. Pink gathered that much from the crew, besides observing
much for himself. Hence what follows after.

Sherwood Branciforte was down in the blacksmith shop at the Rocking R, watching one Andy Green
hammer a spur-shank straight. Andy was what he himself called a tamer of wild ones, and he
was hard upon his riding gear. Sherwood had that morning watched with much admiration the bending
of that same spur-shank, and his respect for Andy was beautiful to behold.

"Lord, but this is a big, wild country," he was saying enthusiastically, "and the people in
it are big and--"

"Wild," supplied Andy. "Yes, you've just about got us sized up correct." He went on hammering,
and humming under his breath, and thinking that, while admiration is all right in its time
and place, it is sometimes a bit wearisome.

"Oh, but I didn't mean that," the young man protested. "What I meant was breezy and picturesque.
Things can happen, out here. Life and men don't run in grooves."

"No, nor horses," assented Andy. "Leastways, not in oiled ones." He was remembering how that
spur-shank had become bent.

"You did some magnificent riding, this morning. By Jove! I've never seen anything like it.
Strange that one can come out here into a part of the country absolutely new and raw, and see
things--"

"Oh, it ain't so raw as you might think," Andy defended jealously, "nor yet new."

"Of course it is new! A commonwealth in the making. You can't," he asserted triumphantly, "point
to anything man-made that existed a hundred years ago; scarcely fifty, either. Your civilization
is yet in the cradle--a lusty infant, and a--er--vociferous one, but still an infant in swaddling
clothes." Sherwood Branciforte had given lectures before the Y.M.C.A. of his home town, and
young ladies had spoken of him as "gifted," and he had come to hear of it, and to believe.

Andy Green squinted at the shank before he made reply. Andy, also, was "gifted," in his modest
Western way.

"A country that can now and then show the papers for a civilization old as the Phenixes of
Egypt," he said, in a drawling tone that was absolutely convincing, "ain't what I'd call raw."
He decided that a little more hammering right next the rowel was necessary, and bent over the
anvil solicitously. Even the self-complacency of Sherwood Branciforte could not fail to note
his utter indifference to the presence and opinions of his companion. Branciforte was accustomed
to disputation at times--even to enmity; but not to indifference. He blinked. "My dear fellow,
do you realize what it is that statement might seem to imply?" he queried haughtily.

Andy, being a cowpuncher of the brand known as a "real," objected strongly both to the term
and the tone. He stood up and stared down at the other disapprovingly. "I don't as a general
thing find myself guilty of talking in my sleep," he retorted, "and I'm prepared to let anything
I say stand till the next throw. We may be some vociferous, out here twixt the Mississippi
and the Rockies, but we ain't no infant-in-the-cradle, Mister. We had civilization here when
the Pilgrim Fathers' rock wasn't nothing but a pebble to let fly at the birds!"

"Indeed!" fleered Sherwood Branciforte, in a voice which gave much intangible insult to one's
intelligence.

Andy clicked his teeth together, which was a symptom it were well for the other to recognize
but did not. Then Andy smiled, which was another symptom. He fingered the spur absently, laid
it down and reached, with the gesture that betrays the act as having become second nature,
for his papers and tobacco sack.

"Uh course, you mean all right, and you ain't none to blame for what you don't know, but you're
talking wild and scattering. When you stand up and tell me I can't point to nothing man-made
that's fifty years old, or a hundred, you make me feel sorry for yuh. I can take you to something--or
I've seen something--that's older than swearing; and I reckon that art goes back to when men
wore their hair long and a sheep-pelt was called ample for dress occasions."

"Are you crazy, man?" Sherwood Branciforte exclaimed incredulously.

"Not what you can notice. You wait whilst I explain. Once last fall I was riding by my high
lonesome away down next the river, when my horse went lame on me from slipping on a shale bank,
and I was set afoot. Uh course, you being plumb ignorant of our picturesque life, you don't
half know all that might signify to imply." This last in open imitation of Branciforte. "It
implies that I was in one hell of a fix, to put it elegant. I was sixty miles from anywhere,
and them sixty half the time standing on end and lapping over on themselves. That there is
down where old mama Nature gave full swing to a morbid hankering after doing things unconventional.
Result is, that it's about as ungodly a mixture of nightmare scenery as this old world can
show up; and I've ambled around considerable and am in a position to pass judgment.

"So there I was, and I wasn't in no mood to view the beauties uh nature to speak of; for instance,
I didn't admire the clouds sailing around promiscous in the sky, nor anything like that. I
was high and dry and the walking was about as poor as I ever seen; and my boots was high-heel
and rubbed blisters before I'd covered a mile of that acrobatic territory. I wanted water,
and I wanted it bad. Before I got it I wanted it a heap worse." He stopped, cupped his slim
fingers around a match-blaze, and Branciforte sat closer. He did not know what was coming,
but the manner of the indifferent narrator was compelling. He almost forgot the point at issue
in the adventure.

"Along about dark, I camped for the night under a big, bare-faced cliff that was about as homelike
and inviting as a charitable institution, and made a bluff at sleeping and cussed my bum luck
in a way that wasn't any bluff. At sun-up I rose and mooched on." His cigarette needed another
match and he searched his pockets for one.

"What about the--whatever it was you started to tell me?" urged Branciforte, grown impatient.

Andy looked him over calmly. "You've lived in ignorance for about thirty years or so--giving
a rough guess at your age; I reckon you can stand another five minutes. As I was saying, I
wandered around like a dogy when it's first turned loose on the range and is trying to find
the old, familiar barn-yard and the skim-milk bucket. And like the dogy, I didn't run across
anything that looked natural or inviting. All that day I perambulated over them hills, and
I will say I wasn't enjoying the stroll none. You're right when you say things can happen,
out here. There's some things it's just as well they don't happen too frequent, and getting
lost and afoot in the Bad-lands is one.

"That afternoon I dragged myself up to the edge of a deep coulee and looked over to see if
there was any way of getting down. There was a bright green streak down there that couldn't
mean nothing but water, at that time of year; this was last fall. And over beyond, I could
see the river that I'd went and lost. I looked and looked, but the walls looked straight as
a Boston's man's pedigree. And then the sun come out from behind a cloud and lit up a spot
that made me forget for a minute that I was thirsty as a dog and near starved besides.

"I was looking down on the ruins--and yet it was near perfect--of an old castle. Every stone
stood out that clear and distinct I could have counted 'em. There was a tower at one end, partly
fell to pieces but yet enough left to easy tell what it was. I could see it had kinda loop-holes
in it. There was an open place where I took it the main entrance had used to be; what I'd call
the official entrance. But there was other entrances besides, and some of 'em was made by time
and hard weather. There was what looked like awhat-you-may-call-'em-- a ditch thing, yuh mind,
running around my side of it, and a bridge business. Uh course, it was all needing repairs
bad, and part of it yuh needed to use your imagination on. I laid there for quite a spell looking
it over and wondering how the dickens it come to be way down there. It didn't look to me like
it ought to be there at all, but in a school geography or a history where the chapter is on
historic and prehistoric hangouts uh the heathen."

"The deuce! A castle in the Bad-lands!" ejaculated Branciforte.

"That's what it was, all right. I found a trail it would make a mountain sheep seasick to follow,
and I got down into the coulee. It was lonesome as sin, and spooky; but there was a spring
close by, and a creek running from it; and what is a treat in that part uh the country, it
was good drinking and didn't have neither alkali nor sulphur nor mineral in it. It was just
straight water, and you can gamble I filled up on it a-plenty. Then I shot a rabbit or two
that was hanging out around the ruins, and camped there till next day, when I found a pass
out, and got my bearings by the river and come on into camp. So when you throw slurs on our
plumb newness and shininess, I've got the cards to call yuh. That castle wasn't built last
summer, Mister. And whoever did build it was some civilized. So there yuh are."

Andy took a last, lingering pull at the cigarette stub, flung it into the backened forge, and
picked up the spur. He settled his hat on his head at its accustomed don't-give-a-darn tilt,
and started for the door and the sunlight.

"Oh, but say! didn't you find out anything about it afterwards? There must have been something--"

"If it's relics uh the dim and musty past yuh mean, there was; relics to burn. I kicked up
specimens of ancient dishes, and truck like that, while I was prowling around for fire-wood.
And inside the castle, in what I reckon was used for the main hall, I run acrost a skeleton.
That is, part of one. I don't believe it was all there, though."

"But, man alive, why haven't you made use of a discovery like that?" Branciforte followed him
out, lighting his pipe with fingers that trembled. "Don't you realize what a thing like that
means?"

Andy turned and smiled lazily down at him. "At the time I was there, I was all took up with
the idea uh getting home. I couldn't eat skeletons, Mister, nor yet the remains uh prehistoric
dishes. And I didn't run acrost no money, nor no plan marked up with crosses where you're supposed
to do your excavating for treasure. It wasn't nothing, that I could see, for a man to starve
to death while he examined it thorough. And so far as I know there ain't any record of it.
I never heard no one mention building it, anyhow." He stooped and adjusted the spur to his
heel to see if it were quite right, and went off to the stable humming under his breath.

Branciforte stood at the door of the blacksmith shop and gazed after him, puffing meditatively
at his pipe. "Lord! the ignorance of these Western folk! To run upon a find like that, and
to think it less important than getting home in time for supper. To let a discovery like that
lie forgotten, a mere incident in a day's travel! That fellow thinks more, right now, about
his horse going lame and himself raising blisters on his heels, than of--Jove, what ignorance!
He--he couldn't eat the skeleton or the dishes! Jerusalem!" Branciforte knocked his pipe gently
against the door-casing, put in into his coat pocket and hurried to the house to hunt up the
others and tell them what he had heard.

That night the roundup pulled in to the home ranch.

The visitors, headed by their host, swooped down upon the roundup wagons just when the boys
were gathered together for a cigarette or two apiece and a little talk before rolling in. There
was no night-guarding to do, and trouble winged afar. Sherwood Branciforte hunted out Andy
Green where he lay at ease with head and shoulders propped against a wheel of the bed-wagon
and gossipped with Pink and a few others.

"Look here, Green," he said in a voice to arrest the attention of the whole camp, "I wish you'd
tell the others that tale you told me this afternoon--about that ruined castle down in the
hills. Mason, here, is a newspaper man; he scents a story for his paper. And the rest refuse
to believe a word I say."

"I'd hate to have a rep like that, Mr. Branciforte," Andy said commiseratingly, and turned
his big, honest gray eyes to where stood the women--two breezy young persons with sleeves rolled
to tanned elbows and cowboy hats of the musical comedy brand. Also they had gay silk handkerchiefs
knotted picturesquely around their throats. There was another, a giggly, gurgly lady with gray
hair fluffed up into a pompadour. You know the sort. She was the kind who refuses to grow old,
and so merely grows imbecile.

"Do tell us, Mr. Green," this young old lady urged, displaying much gold by her smile. "It
sounds so romantic."

"It's funny you never mentioned it to any of us," put in the "old man" suspiciously.

Andy pulled himself up into a more decorous position, and turned his eyes towards his boss.
"I never knew yuh took any interest in relic-hunting," he explained mildly.

"Sherwood says you found a skeleton!" said the young old lady, shuddering pleasurably.

"Yes, I did find one--or part of one," Andy admitted reluctantly.

"What were the relics of pottery like?" demanded one of the cowboy-hatted girls, as if she
meant to test him. "I do some collecting of that sort of thing."

Andy threw away his cigarette, and with it all compunction. "Well, I wasn't so much interested
in the dishes as in getting something to eat," he apologized. "I saw several different kinds.
One was a big, awkward looking thing and was pretty heavy, and had straight sides. Then I come
across one or two more that was ornamented some. One had what looked like a fish on it, and
the other I couldn't make out very well. They didn't look to be worth much, none of 'em."

"Green," said his employer steadily, "was there such a place?"

Andy returned his look honestly. "There was, and there is yet, I guess," he asserted. "I'll
tell you how you can find it and what it's like--if yuh doubt my words." He glanced around
and found every man, including the cook, listening intently. He picked a blade of new grass
and began splitting it into tiny threads. The host found boxes for the women to sit upon, and
the men sat down upon the grass.

"Before I come here to work, I was riding for the Circle C. One day I was riding away down
in the Bad-lands alone and my horse slipped in some shale rock and went lame; strained his
shoulder so I couldn't ride him. That put me afoot, and climbing up and down them hills I lost
my bearings and didn't know where I was at for a day or two. I wandered around aimless, and
got into a strip uh country that was new to me and plumb lonesome and wild.

"That second day is when I happened across this ruin. I was looking down into a deep, shut-in
coulee, hunting water, when the sun come out and shone straight on to this place. It was right
down under me; a stone ruin, with a tower on one end and kinda tumbled down so it wasn't so
awful high--the tower wasn't. There was a--a--"

"Moat," Branciforte suggested.

"That's the word--a moat around it, and a bridge that was just about gone to pieces. It had
loopholes, like the pictures of castles, and a--"

"Battlement?" ventured one of the musical-comedy cowgirls.

Andy had not meant to say battlement; of a truth, his conception of battlements was extremely
hazy, but he caught up the word and warmed to the subject. "Battlement? well I should guess
yes! There was about as elegant a battlement as I'd want to see anywhere. It was sure a peach.
It was--" he hesitated for a fraction of a second. "It was high as the tower, and it had figures
carved all over it; them kind that looks like kid-drawing in school, with bows and arrows stuck
out in front of 'em, threatening."

"Not the old Greek!" exclaimed one of the girls in a little, breathless voice.

"I couldn't say as to that," Andy made guarded reply. "I never made no special study of them
things. But they was sure old. And--"

"About how large was the castle?" put in the man who wrote things. "How many rooms, say?"

"I'd hate to give a guess at the size. I didn't step it off, and I'm a punk guesser. The rooms
I didn't count. I only explored around in the main hall, like, a little. But it got dark early,
down in there, and I didn't have no matches to waste. And next morning I started right out
at sun-up to find the way home. No, I never counted the rooms, and if I had, the chances are
I'd have likely counted the same one more'n once; to count them rooms would take an expert,
which I ain't--not at counting. I don't reckon, though, that there was so awful many. Anyway,
not more than fifteen or twenty. But as I say, I couldn't rightly make a guess, even; or I'd
hate to. Ruins don't interest me much, though I was kinda surprised to run acrost that one,
all right, and I'm willing to gamble there was warm and exciting times down there when the
place was in running order. I'd kinda like to have been down there then. Last fall, though,
there wasn't nothing to get excited over, except getting out uh there."

"A castle away out here! Just think, good people, what that means! Romance, adventure and scientific
discoveries! We must go right down there and explore the place. Why can't we start at once--in
the morning? This gentleman can guide us to the place, and--"

"It ain't easy going," Andy remarked, conscientiously. "It's pretty rough; some places, you'd
have to walk and lead your horses."

They swept aside the discouragement.

"We'd need pick and shovels, and men to dig," cried one enthusiast. "Uncle Peter can lend us
some of his men. There may be treasure to unearth. There may be anything that is wonderful
and mysterious. Get busy, Uncle Peter, and get your outfit together; you've boasted that a
roundup can beat the army in getting under way quickly, now let us have a practical demonstration.
We want to start by six o'clock--all of us, with a cook and four or five men to do the excavating.
Bring it to pass!" It was the voice of the girl whom her friends spoke of as "The life of the
party;" the voice of the-girl-who-does-things.

"It's sixty-five miles from here, good and strong--and mostly up and down," put in Andy.

"'Quoth the raven,'" mocked the-girl-who-does-things. "We are prepared to face the ups-and-downs.
Do we start at six, Uncle Peter?"

Uncle Peter glanced sideways at the roundup boss. To bring it to pass, he would be obliged
to impress the roundup cook and part of the crew. It was breaking an unwritten law of the rangeland,
and worse, it was doing something unbusiness-like and foolish. But not even the owner of the
Rocking R may withstand the pleading of a pretty woman. Uncle Peter squirmed, but he promised:

"We start at six; earlier if you say so."

The roundup boss gave his employer a look of disgust and walked away; the crew took it that
he went off to some secluded place to swear.

Thereafter there was much discussion of ways and means, and much enthusiasm among the visitors
from the East--equalled by the depression of the crew, for cowboys do not, as a rule, take
kindly to pick and shovel, and the excavators had not yet been chosen from among them. They
were uneasy, and they stole frequent, betraying glances at one another. All of which amused
Pink much. Pink would like to have gone along, and would certainly have offered his services,
but for the fact that his work there was done and he would have to start back to the Flying
U just as soon as one of his best saddle horses, which had stepped on a broken beer bottle
and cut its foot, was able to travel. That would be in a few days, probably. So Pink sighed
and watched the preparations enviously.

Since he was fairly committed into breaking all precedents, uncle Peter plunged recklessly.
He ordered the mess-wagon to be restocked and prepared for the trip, and he took the bed-tent
and half the crew. The foreman he wisely left behind with the remnant of his outfit. They were
all to eat at the house while the mess-wagon was away, and they were to spread their soogans--which
is to say beds--where they might, if the bunk-house proved too small or too hot.

The foreman, outraged beyond words, saddled at daybreak and rode to the nearest town, and the
unchosen half turned out in a body to watch the departure of the explorers, which speaks eloquently
of their interest; for cowboys off duty are prone to sleep long.

Andy, as guide, bolted ahead of the party that he might open the gate. Bolted is a good word,
for his horse swerved and kept on running, swerved again, and came down in a heap. Andy did
not get up, and the women screamed. Then Pink and some others hurried out and bore Andy, groaning,
to the bunk-house.

The visitors from the East gathered, perturbed, around the door, sympathetic and dismayed.
It looked very much as if their exploration must end where it began, and the-girl-who-does-things
looked about to weep, until Andy, still groaning, sent Pink out to comfort them.

"He says you needn't give up the trip on his account," Pink announced musically from the doorway.
"He's drawing a map and marking the coulee where the ruin is. He says most any of the boys
that know the country at all can find the place for yuh. And he isn't hurt permanent; he strained
his back so he can't ride, is all." Pink dimpled at the young old lady who was admiring him
frankly, and withdrew.

Inside, Andy Green was making pencil marks and giving the chosen half explicit directions.
At last he folded the paper and handed it to one called Sandy.

"That's the best I can do for yuh," he finished. "I don't see how yuh can miss it if yuh follow
that map close. And if them gay females make any kick on the trail, you just remind 'em that
I said all along it was rough going. So long, and good luck."

So with high-keyed, feminine laughter and much dust, passed the exploring party from the Rocking R.

"Say," Pink began two days later to Andy, who was sitting on the shady side of the bunk-house
staring absently at the skyline, "There's a word uh praise I've been aiming to give yuh. I've
seen riding, and I've done a trifle in that line myself, and learned some uh the tricks. But
I want to say I never did see a man flop his horse any neater than you done that morning. I'll
bet there ain't another man in the outfit got next your play. I couldn't uh done it better
myself. Where did you learn that? Ever ride in Wyoming?"

Andy turned his eyes, but not his head--which was a way he had--and regarded Pink slantwise
for at least ten seconds. "Yes, I've rode in Wyoming," he answered quietly. Then: "What's the
chance for a job, up your way? Is the Flying U open for good men and true?"

"It won't cost yuh a cent to try," Pink told him. "How's your back? Think you'll be able to
ride by the time Skeeker is able to travel?"

Andy, grinned. "Say," he confided suddenly, "if that hoss don't improve some speedy, I'll be
riding on ahead. I reckon I'll be able to travel before them explorers get back, my friend."

"Why?" dimpled Pink boldly.

"Why? Well, the going is some rough, down that way. If they get them wagons half way to the
coulee marked with a cross, they'll sure have to attach wings onto 'em. I've been some worried
about that. I don't much believe uncle Peter is going to enjoy that trip--and he sure does
get irritable by spells. I've got a notion to ride for some other outfit, this summer."

"Was that the reason you throwed your horse down and got hurt, that morning?" questioned Pink,
and Andy grinned again by way of reply.

"They'll be gone a week, best they can do," he estimated aloud. "We ought to be able to make
our getaway by then, easy."

Pink assured him that a week would see them headed for the Flying U.

It was the evening of the sixth day, and the two were packed and ready to leave in the morning,
when Andy broke off humming and gave a snort of dismay. "By gracious, there they come. My mother
lives in Buffalo, Pink, in a little drab house with white trimmings. Write and tell her how
her son--Oh, beloved! but they're hitting her up lively. If they made the whole trip in that
there frame uh mind, they could uh gone clean to Miles City and back. How pretty the birds
sing! Pink, you'll hear words, directly."

Directly Pink did.

"You're the biggest liar on earth," Sherwood Branciforte contributed to the recriminating wave
that near engulfed Andy Green. "You sent us down there on a wild-goose chase, you brute. You--"

"I never sent nobody," Andy defended. "You was all crazy to go."

"And nothing but an old stone hut some trapper had built!" came an indignant, female tone.
"There never was any castle, nor--"

"A man's home is his castle," argued Andy, standing unabashed before them. "Putting it that
way, it was a castle, all right."

There was babel, out of which--

"And the skeleton! Oh, you--it was a dead cow!" This from the young old lady, who was looking
very draggled and not at all young.

"I don't call to mind ever saying it was human," put in Andy, looking at her with surprised,
gray eyes.

"And the battlements!" groaned the-girl-who-does-things.

"You wanted battlements," Andy flung mildly into the uproar. "I always aim to please." With
that he edged away from them and made his escape to where the cook was profanely mixing biscuits
for supper. All-day moves put an edge to his temper. The cook growled an epithet, and Andy
passed on. Down near the stable he met one of the chosen half, and the fellow greeted him with
a grin. Andy stopped abruptly.

"Say, they don't seem none too agreeable," he began tentatively, jerking his thumb toward the
buzzing group. "How about it, Sandy? Was they that petulant all the way?"

Sandy, the map-bearer, chuckled. "It's lucky you got hurt at the last minute! And yet it was
worth the trip. Uh course we got stalled with the wagons, the second day out, but them women
was sure ambitious, and made us go on with a packadero layout. I will say that, going down,
they stood the hardships remarkable. It was coming back that frazzled the party.

"And when we found the place--say, but it was lucky you wasn't along! They sure went hog-wild
when they seen the ruins. The old party with the pompadoor displayed temper, and shed tears
uh rage. When she looked into the cabin and seen the remains uh that cow-critter, there was
language it wasn't polite to overhear. She said a lot uh things about you, Andy. One thing
they couldn't seem to get over, and that was the smallness uh the blamed shack. Them fourteen
or fifteen rooms laid heavy on their minds."

"I didn't say there was fourteen or fifteen rooms. I said I didn't count the rooms; I didn't
either. I never heard of anybody counting one room. Did you, Pink?"

"No," Pink agreed, "I never did!"

Sandy became suddenly convulsed. "Oh, but the funniest thing was the ancient pottery," he gasped,
the tears standing in his eyes. "That old Dutch oven was bad enough; but when one uh the girls--that
one that collects old dishes--happened across an old mackerel can and picked it up and saw
the fish on the label, she was the maddest female person I ever saw in my life, barring none.
If you'd been in reach about that time, she'd just about clawed your eyes out, Andy Green.
Oh me, oh my!" Sandy slapped his thigh and had another spasm.

Sounds indicated that the wave of recrimination was rolling nearer. Andy turned to find himself
within arm's length of Uncle Pete.

"Maybe this is your idea of a practical joke, Green," he said to Andy. "But anyway, it will
cost you your job. I ought to charge you up with the time my outfit has spent gallivanting
around the country on the strength of your wild yarn. The quicker you hit the trail, the better
it will suit me. By the way, what's your first name?" He asked, pulling out a check-book.

"Andy," answered the unrepentant one.

"Andy," Uncle Peter paused with a fountain pen between his fingers. He looked Andy up and down,
and the frown left his face. He proceeded to write out the check, and when it was done he handed
it over with a pleased smile.

"What did you do it for, Green?" he queried in a friendlier tone.

"Self-defence," Andy told him laconically, and turned away.

Half an hour later, Andy and Pink trailed out of the coulee that sheltered the Rocking R. When
they were out and away from the fence, and Pink's horses, knowing instinctively that they were
homeward bound, were jogging straight west without need of guidance, Andy felt in his pocket
for cigarette material. His fingers came in contact with the check Uncle Peter had given him,
and he drew it forth and looked it over again.

"Well, by gracious!" he said to himself. "Uncle Peter thinks we're even, I guess."

He handed the check to Pink and rolled his cigarette; and Pink, after one comprehending look
at the slip of paper, doubled up over his saddle-horn and shouted with glee--for the check
was written: "Pay to the order of Ananias Green."

"And I've got to sign myself a liar, or I don't collect no money," sighed Andy. "That's what
I call tough luck, by gracious!"

       *       *       *       *       *

BLINK

The range-land was at its unpicturesque worst. For two days the wind had raged and ranted over
the hilltops, and whooped up the long coulees, so that tears stood in the eyes of the Happy
Family when they faced it; impersonal tears blown into being by the very force of the wind.
Also, when they faced it they rode with bodies aslant over their saddle-horns and hats pulled
low over their streaming eyes, and with coats fastened jealously close. If there were buttons
enough, well and good; if not, a strap cinched tightly about the middle was considered pretty
lucky and not to be despised. Though it was early September, "sour-dough" coats were much in
evidence, for the wind had a chill way of searching to the very marrow--and even a good, sheepskin-lined
"sour-dough" was not always protection sufficient.

When the third day dawned bleakly, literally blown piecemeal from out darkness as bleak, the
Happy Family rose shiveringly and with sombre disapproval of whatever met their blood-shot
eyes; dressed hurriedly in the chill of flapping tent and went out to stagger drunkenly over
to where Patsy, in the mess-tent, was trying vainly to keep the biscuits from becoming dust-sprinkled,
and sundry pans and tins from taking jingling little excursions on their own account. Over
the brow of the next ridge straggled the cavvy, tails and manes whipping in the gale, the nighthawk
swearing so that his voice came booming down to camp. Truly, the day opened inauspiciously
enough for almost any dire ending.

As further evidence, saddling horses for circle resolved itself, as Weary remarked at the top
of his voice to Pink, at his elbow, into "a free-for-all broncho busting tournament." For horses
have nerves, and nothing so rasps the nerves of man or beast as a wind that never stops blowing;
which means swaying ropes and popping saddle leather, and coat-tails flapping like wet sheets
on a clothes line. Horses do not like these things, and they are prone to eloquent manifestations
of their disapproval.

Over by the bed-wagon, a man they called Blink, for want of a better name, was fighting his
big sorrel silently, with that dogged determination which may easily grow malevolent. The sorrel
was at best a high-tempered, nervous beast, and what with the wind and the flapping of everything
in sight, and the pitching of half-a-dozen horses around him, he was nearly crazed with fear
in the abstract.

Blink was trying to bridle him, and he was not saying a word--which, in the general uproar,
was strange. But Blink seldom did say anything. He was one of the aliens who had drifted into
the Flying U outfit that spring, looking for work. Chip had taken him on, and he had stayed.
He could ride anything in his string, and he was always just where he was wanted. He never
went to town when the others clattered off for a few hours' celebration more or less mild,
he never took part in any of the camp fun, and he never offended any man. If any offended him
they did not know it unless they were observant; if they were, they would see his pale lashes
wink fast for a minute, and they might read aright the sign and refrain from further banter.
So Blink, though he was counted a good man on roundup, was left pretty much alone when in camp.

Andy Green, well and none too favorably known down Rocking R way, and lately adopted into the
Happy Family on the recommendation of Pink and his own pleasing personality, looped the latigo
into the holder, gave his own dancing steed a slap of the don't-try-to-run-any-whizzers-on-me
variety, and went over to help out Blink.

Blink eyed his approach with much the same expression with which he eyed the horse. "I never
hollered for assistance," he remarked grudgingly when Andy was at his elbow. "When I can't
handle any of the skates in my string, I'll quit riding and take to sheep-herding." Whereupon
he turned his back as squarely as he might upon Andy and made another stealthy grab for the
sorrel's ears. (There is such a thing in the range-land as jealousy among riders, and the fame
of Andy Green had gone afar.)

"All right. Just as you say, and not as I care a darn," Andy retorted, and went back to where
his own mount stood tail to the wind. He did not in the least mind the rebuff; he really felt
all the indifference his manner portrayed--perhaps even more. He had offered help where help
was needed, and that ended it for him. It never occurred to him that Blink might feel jealous
over Andy's hard-earned reputation as a "tamer of wild ones," or mistake his good nature for
patronage.

Five minutes later, when Chip looked around comprehensively at the lot of them in various degrees
of readiness; saw that Blink was still fighting silently for mastery of the sorrel and told
Andy to go over and help him get saddled, Andy said nothing of having had his services refused,
but went. This time, Blink also said nothing, but accepted in ungracious surrender the assistance
thus thrust upon him. For on the range-land, unless one is in a mind to roll his bed and ride
away, one does not question when the leader commands. Andy's attitude was still that of indifference;
he really thought very little about Blink or his opinions, and the rapid blinking of the pale
lashes was quite lost upon him.

They rode, eighteen ill-natured, uncomfortable cowboys, tumultuously away from the camp, where
canvas bulged and swayed, and loose corners cracked like pistol shots, over the hill where
even the short, prairie grass crouched and flattened itself against the sod; where stray pebbles,
loosened by the ungentle tread of pitching hoofs, skidded twice as far as in calm weather.
The gray sky bent threateningly above them, wind-torn into flying scud but never showing a
hint of blue. Later there might be rain, sleet, snow--or sunshine, as nature might whimsically
direct; but for the present she seemed content with only the chill wind that blew the very
heart out of a man.

Whenever Chip pulled up to turn off a couple of riders that they might search a bit of rough
country, his voice was sharp with the general discomfort. When men rode away at his command,
it was with brows drawn together and vengeful heels digging the short-ribs of horses in quite
as unlovely a mood as themselves.

Out at the end of the "circle," Chip divided the remainder of his men into two groups for the
homeward drive. One group he himself led. The other owned Weary as temporary commander and
galloped off to the left, skirting close to the foothills of the Bear Paws. In that group rode
Pink and Happy Jack, Slim, Andy Green and Blink the silent.

"I betche we get a blizzard out uh this," gloomed Happy Jack, pulling his coat collar up another
fraction of an inch. "And the way Chip's headed us, we got to cross that big flat going back
in the thick of it; chances is, we'll git lost."

No one made reply to this; it seemed scarcely worth while. Every man of them rode humped away
from the wind, his head drawn down as close to his shoulders as might be. Conversation under
those conditions was not likely to become brisk.

"A fellow that'll punch cows for a living," Happy Jack asserted venomously after a minute,
"had ought to be shut up somewheres. He sure ain't responsible. I betche next summer don't
see me at it."

"Aw, shut up. We know you're feeble-minded, without you blatting it by the hour," snapped Pink,
showing never a dimple.

Happy Jack tugged again at his collar and made remarks, to which no one paid the slightest
attention. They rode in amongst the hills and narrow ridges dividing "draws" as narrow, where
range cattle would seek shelter from the cutting blast that raked the open. Then, just as they
began to realize that the wind was not quite such a raging torment, came a new phase of nature's
unpleasant humor.

It was not a blizzard that descended upon them, though when it came rolling down from the hilltops
it much resembled one. The wind had changed and brought fog, cold, suffocating, impenetrable.
Yet such was the mood of them that no one said anything about it. Weary had been about to turn
off a couple of men, but did not. What was the use, since they could not see twenty yards?

For a time they rode aimlessly, Weary in the lead. Then, when it grew no better but worse,
he pulled up, just where a high bank shut off the wind and a tangle of brush barred the way
in front.

"We may as well camp right here till things loosen up a little," he said. "There's no use playing
blind-man's-buff any longer. We'll have some fire, for a change. Mama! this is sure beautiful
weather!"

At that, they brightened a bit and hurriedly dismounted and hunted dry wood. Since they were
to have a fire, the general tendency was to have a big one; so that when they squatted before
it and held out cold, ungloved fingers to the warmth, the flames were leaping high into the
fog and crackling right cheerily. It needed only a few puffs at their cigarettes to chase the
gloom from their faces and put them in the mood for talk. Only Blink sat apart and stared moodily
into the fire, his hands clasped listlessly around his knees, and to him they gave no attention.
He was an alien, and a taciturn one at that. The Happy Family were accustomed to living clannishly,
even on roundup, and only when they tacitly adopted a man, as they had adopted Pink and Irish
and, last but not least important, Andy Green, did they take note of that man's mood and demand
reasons for any surliness.

"If Slim would perk up and go run down a grouse or two," Pink observed pointedly, "we'd be
all right for the day. How about it, Slim?"

"Run 'em down yourself," Slim retorted. "By golly, I ain't no lop-ear bird dog."

"The law's out fer chickens," Happy Jack remarked dolefully.

"Go on, Happy, and get us a few. You've got your howitzer buckled on," fleered Andy Green.
Andy it was whose fertile imagination had so christened Happy Jack's formidable weapon.

"Aw, gwan!" protested Happy Jack.

"Happy looks like he was out for a rep," bantered Pink. "He makes me think uh the Bad Man in
a Western play. All he needs is his hat turned up in front and his sleeves rolled up to his
elbow, like he was killing hogs. Happy would make a dandy-looking outlaw, with that gun and
that face uh his."

"Say, by golly, I bet that's what he's figurin' on doing. He ain't going to punch cows no more--I
bet he's thinking about turning out."

"Well, when I do, you'll be the first fellow I lay for," retorted Happy, with labored wit.

"You never'd get a rep shooting at a target the size uh Slim," dimpled Pink. "Is that toy cannon
loaded, Happy?"

"I betche yuh dassen't walk off ten paces and let me show yuh," growled Happy.

Pink made as if to rise, then settled back with a sigh. "Ten paces is farther than you could
drive me from this fire with a club," he said. "And you couldn't see me, in this fog."

"Say, it is pretty solid," said Weary, looking around him at the blank, gray wall. "A fellow
could sit right here and be a lot ignorant of what's going on around him. A fellow could--"

"When I was riding down in the San Simon basin," spoke up Andy, rolling his second cigarette
daintily between his finger-tips, "I had a kinda queer experience in a fog, once. It was thick
as this one, and it rolled down just about as sudden and unexpected. That's a plenty wild patch
uh country--or it was when I was there. I was riding for a Spanish gent that kept white men
as a luxury and let the greasers do about all the rough work--such as killing off superfluous
neighbors, and running brands artistic, and the like. Oh, he was a gay mark, all right.

"But about this other deal: I was out riding alone after a little bunch uh hosses, one day
in the fall. I packed my gun and a pair uh field glasses, and every time I rode up onto a mesa
I'd take a long look at all the lower country to save riding it. I guess I'd prognosticated
around like that for two or three hours, when I come out on a little pinnacle that slopes down
gradual toward a neighbor's home ranch--only the ranch itself was quite a ride back up the basin.

"I got off my horse and set down on a rock to build me a smoke, and was gazing off over the
country idle, when I seen a rider come up out of a little draw and gallop along quartering-like,
to pass my pinnacle on the left. You know how a man out alone like that will watch anything,
from a chicken hawk up in the air to a band uh sheep, without any interest in either one, but
just to have your eyes on something that's alive and moves.

"So I watched him, idle, while I smoked. Pretty soon I seen another fellow ride out into sight
where the first one had, and hit her up lively down the trail. I didn't do no wondering--I
just sat and watched 'em both for want uh something better to do."

"Finding them strays wasn't important, I s'pose?" Happy Jack insinuated.

"It could wait, and did. So I kept an eye on these gazabos, and pretty soon I saw the hind
fellow turn off the trail and go fogging along behind a little rise. He come into sight again,
whipping down both sides like he was heading a wild four-year-old; and that was queer, because
the only other live thing in sight was man number one, and I didn't see no reason why he should
be hurting himself to get around to windward like that.

"Maybe it was five minutes I watched 'em: number one loping along like there wasn't nothing
urgent and he was just merely going somewhere and taking his time for it, and number two quirting
and spurring like seconds was diamonds."

"I wish they was that valuable to you," hinted Pink.

"They ain't, so take it easy. Well, pretty soon they got closer together, and then number two
unhooked something on his saddle that caught the light. There's where I got my field glasses
into play. I drew a bead with 'em, and seen right off it was a gun. And I hadn't no more than
got my brain adjusted to grasp his idea, when he puts it back and takes down his rope. That
there," Andy added naïvely, "promised more real interest; guns is commonplace.

"I took down the glasses long enough to size up the layout. Glasses, you know, are mighty deceiving
when it comes to relative distances, and a hilltop a mile back looks, through the glass, like
just stepping over a ditch. With the naked eye I could see that they were coming together pretty
quick, and they done so.

"Number one looks back, but whether he seen number two I couldn't say; seemed to me like he
just glanced back casual and in the wrong direction. Be that is it may, number two edged off
a little and rode in behind a bunch uh mesquite--and then I seen that the trail took a turn,
right there. So he pulled up and stood still till the other one had ambled past, and then he
whirled out into the trail and swung his loop.

"When I'd got the glasses focused on 'em again, he had number one snared, all right, and had
took his turns. The hoss he was riding--it was a buckskin--set back and yanked number one end
over end out uh the saddle, and number one's hoss stampeded off through the brush. Number two
dug in his spurs and went hell-bent off the trail and across country dragging the other fellow--and
him bouncing over the rough spots something horrible.

"I don't know what got the matter uh me, then; I couldn't do anything but sit there on my rock
and watch through the glasses. Anyway, while they looked close enough to hit with a rock, they
was off a mile or more. So while I could see it all I couldn't do nothing to prevent. I couldn't
even hear number one yell--supposing he done any hollering, which the chances is he did a plenty.
It was for all the world like one uh these moving pictures.

"I thought it was going to be a case uh dragging to death, but it wasn't; it looked to me a
heap worse. Number two dragged his man a ways--I reckon till he was plumb helpless--and then
he pulled up and rode back to where he laid. The fellow tried to get up, and did get partly
on his knees--and number one standing over him, watching.

"What passed I don't know, not having my hearing magnified like my sight was. I framed it up
that number two was getting his past, present and future read out to him--what I'd call a free
life reading. The rope was pinning his arms down to his sides, and number two was taking blamed
good care there wasn't any slack, so fast as he tried to get up he was yanked back. From first
to last he never had a ghost of a show.

"Then number two reaches back deliberate and draws his gun and commences shooting, and I commences
hollering for him to quit it--and me a mile off and can't do nothing! I tell yuh right now,
that was about the worst deal I ever went up against, to set there on that pinnacle and watch
murder done in cold blood, and me plumb helpless.

"The first shot wasn't none fatal, as I could see plainer than was pleasant. Looked to me like
he wanted to string out the agony. It was a clear case uh butchery from start to finish; the
damnedest, lowest-down act a white man could be guilty of. He empties his six-gun--counting
the smoke-puffs--and waits a minute, watching like a cat does a gopher. I was sweating cold,
but I kept my eyes glued to them glasses like a man in a nightmare.

"When he makes sure the fellow's dead, he rides alongside and flips off the rope, with the
buckskin snorting and edging off--at the blood-smell, I reckon. While he's coiling his rope,
calm as if he'd just merely roped a yearling, the buckskin gets his head, plants it and turns
on the fireworks.

"When that hoss starts in pitching, I come alive and drop the glasses into their case and make
a jump for my own hoss. If the Lord lets me come up with that devil, I aim to deal out a case
uh justice on my own hook; I was in a right proper humor for doing him like he done the other
fellow, and not ask no questions. Looked to me like he had it coming, all right.

"I'd just stuck my toe in the stirrup, when down comes the fog like a wet blanket on everything.
I couldn't see twenty feet--" Andy stopped and reached for a burning twig to relight his cigarette.
The Happy Family was breathing hard with the spell of the story.

"Did yuh git him?" Happy Jack asked hoarsely. Andy took a long puff at his cigarette. "Well,
I--Holy smoke! what's the matter with you, Blink?" For Blink was leaning forward, half crouched,
like a cat about to pounce, and was glaring fixedly at Andy with lips drawn back in a snarl.
The Happy Family looked, then stared.

Blink relaxed, shrugged his shoulders and grinned unmirthfully. He got up, pulled up his chaps
with the peculiar, hitching gesture which comes with long practice and grows to be second nature,
and stared back defiantly at the wondering faces lighted by the dancing flames. He turned his
back coolly upon them and walked away to where his horse stood, took up the reins and stuck
his toe in the stirrup, went up and landed in the saddle ready for anything. Then he wheeled
the big sorrel so that he faced those at the camp-fire.

"A man's a damned fool, Andy Green, to see more than is meant for him to see. He's plumb crazy
to go round blatting all he knows. You won't tell that tale again, mi amigo!"

There was the pop of a pistol, a puff of blue against the gray, and then the fog reached out
and gathered Blink and the sorrel to itself. Only the clatter of galloping hoofs came to them
from behind the damp curtain. Andy Green was lying on his back in the grass, his cigarette
smoking dully in his fingers, a fast widening red streak trailing down from his temple.

The Happy Family rose like a covey of frightened chickens before the echoes were done playing
with the gun-bark. On the heels of Blink's shot came the crack of Happy Jack's "howitzer" as
he fired blindly toward the hoof-beats. There was more shooting while they scurried to where
their horses, snorting excitement, danced uneasily at the edge of the bushes. Only one man
spoke, and that was Pink, who stopped just as he was about to swing into the saddle.

"Damme for leaving my gun in camp! I'll stay with Andy. Go on--and if yuh don't get him, I'll--"
he turned back, cursing hysterically, and knelt beside the long figure in the grass. There
was a tumult of sound as the three raced off in pursuit, so close that the flight of the fugitive
was still distinct in the fog.

While they raced they cursed the fog that shielded from their vengeance their quarry, and made
such riding as theirs a blind gamble with the chances all in favor of broken bones; their only
comfort the knowledge that Blink could see no better than could they. They did not talk, just
at first. They did not even wonder if Andy was dead. Every nerve, every muscle and every thought
was concentrated upon the pursuit of Blink. It was the instant rising to meet an occasion undreamed
of in advance, to do the only thing possible without loss of a second in parley. Truly, it
were ill for Blink to fall into the hands of those three in that mood.

They rode with quirt and spur, guided only by the muffled pluckety-pluck, pluckety-pluck of
Blink's horse fleeing always just before. Whenever the hoof-beats seemed a bit closer, Happy
Jack would lift his long-barreled .45 and send a shot at random toward the sound. Or Weary
or Slim would take a chance with their shorter guns. But never once did they pull rein for
steep or gulley, and never once did the hoof-beats fail to come back to them from out the fog.

The chase had led afar and the pace was telling on their mounts, which breathed asthmatically.
Slim, best he could do, was falling behind. Weary's horse stumbled and went to his knees, so
that Happy Jack forged ahead just when the wind, puffing up from the open, blew aside the gray
fog-wall. It was not a minute, nor half that; but it was long enough for Happy Jack to see,
clear and close, Blink pausing irresolutely upon the edge of a deep, brush-filled gulley. Happy
Jack gave a hoarse croak of triumph and fired, just as the fog-curtain swayed back maddeningly.
Happy Jack nearly wept with pure rage. Weary and Slim came up, and together they galloped to
the place, riding by instinct of direction, for there was no longer any sound to guide.

Ten minutes they spent searching the gulley's edge. Then they saw dimly, twenty feet below,
a huddled object half-hidden in the brush. They climbed down none too warily, though they knew
well what might be lying, venomous as a coiled rattler, in wait for them below. Slipping and
sliding in the fog-dampened grass, they reached the spot, to find the big sorrel crumpled there,
dead. They searched anxiously and futilely for more, but Blink was not there, nor was there
anything to show that he had ever been there. Then not fear, perhaps, but caution, came to
Happy Jack.

"Aw, say! he's got away on us--the skunk! He's down there in the brush, somewheres, waiting
for somebody to go in and drag him out by the ear. I betche he's laying low, right now, waiting
for a chance to pot-shot us. We better git back out uh this." He edged away, his eyes on the
thicket just below. To ride in there was impossible, even to the Happy Family in whole or in
part. To go in afoot was not at all to the liking of Happy Jack.

Slim gave a comprehensive, round-eyed stare at the unpromising surroundings, and followed Happy
Jack. "By golly, that's right. Yuh don't git me into no hole like that," he assented.

Weary, foolhardy to the last, stayed longest; but even Weary could not but admit that the case
was hopeless. The brush was thick and filled the gully, probably from end to end. Riding through
it was impossible, and hunting it through on foot would be nothing but suicide, with a man
like Blink hidden away in its depths. They climbed back to the rim, remounted and rode, as
straight as might be, for the camp-fire and what lay beside, with Pink on guard.

It was near noon when, through the lightening fog, they reached the place and discovered that
Andy, though unconscious, was not dead. They found, upon examination of his hurt, that the
bullet had ploughed along the side of his head above his ear; but just how serious it might
be they did not know. Pink, having a fresh horse and aching for action, mounted and rode in
much haste to camp, that the bed-wagon might be brought out to take Andy in to the ranch and
the ministrations of the Little Doctor. Also, he must notify the crew and get them out searching
for Blink.

All that night and the next day the cowboys rode, and the next. They raked the foothills, gulley
by gulley, their purpose grim. It would probably be a case of shoot-on-sight with them, and
nothing saved Blink save the all-important fact that never once did any man of the Flying U
gain sight of him. He had vanished completely after that fleeting glimpse Happy Jack had gained,
and in the end the Flying U was compelled to own defeat.

Upon one point they congratulated themselves: Andy, bandaged as he was, had escaped with a
furrow ploughed through the scalp, though it was not the fault of Blink that he was alive and
able to discuss the affair with the others--more exactly, to answer the questions they fired
at him.

"Didn't you recognize him as being the murderer?" Weary asked him curiously.

Andy moved uneasily on his bed. "No, I didn't. By gracious, you must think I'm a plumb fool!"

"Well, yuh sure hit the mark, whether yuh meant to or not," Pink asserted. "He was the jasper,
all right. Look how he was glaring at yuh while you were telling about it. He knew he was the
party, and having a guilty conscience, he naturally supposed yuh recognized him from the start."

"Well, I didn't," snapped Andy ungraciously, and they put it down to the peevishness of invalidism
and overlooked the tone.

"Chip has given his description in to the sheriff," soothed Weary, "and if he gets off he's
sure a good one. And I heard that the sheriff wired down to the San Simon country and told
'em their man was up here. Mama! What bad breaks a man will make when he's on the dodge! If
Blink had kept his face closed and acted normal, nobody would have got next. Andy didn't know
he was the fellow that done it. But it sure was queer, the way the play come up. Wasn't it, Andy?"

Andy merely grunted. He did not like to dwell upon the subject, and he showed it plainly.

"By golly! he must sure have had it in for that fellow," mused Slim ponderously, "to kill him
the way Andy says he did. By golly, yuh can't wonder his eyes stuck out when he heard Andy
telling us all about it!"

"I betche he lays for Andy yet, and gits him," predicted Happy Jack felicitously. "He won't
rest whilst an eye-witness is running around loose. I betche he's cached in the hills right
now, watching his chance."

"Oh, go to hell, the whole lot of yuh!" flared Andy, rising to an elbow. "What the dickens
are yuh roosting around here for? Why don't yuh go on out to camp where yuh belong? You're
a nice bunch to set around comforting the sick! Vamos, darn yuh!"

Whereupon they took the hint and departed, assuring Andy, by way of farewell, that he was an
unappreciative cuss and didn't deserve any sympathy or sick-calls. They also condoled openly
with Pink because he had been detailed as nurse, and advised him to sit right down on Andy
if he got too sassy and haughty over being shot up by a real outlaw. They said that any fool
could build himself a bunch of trouble with a homicidal lunatic like Blink, and it wasn't anything
to get vain over.

Pink slammed the door upon their jibes and offered Andy a cigarette he had just rolled; not
that Andy was too sick to roll his own, but because Pink was notably soft-hearted toward a
sick man and was prone to indulge himself in trifling attentions.

"Yuh don't want to mind that bunch," he placated. "They mean all right, but they just can't
help joshing a man to death."

Andy accepted also a light for the cigarette, and smoked moodily. "It ain't their joshing,"
he explained after a minute "It's puzzling over what I can't understand that gets on my nerves.
I can't see through the thing, Pink, no way I look at it."

"Looks plain enough to me," Pink answered. "Uh course, it's funny Blink should be the man,
and be setting there listening--"

"Yes, but darn it all, Pink, there's a funnier side to it than that, and it's near driving
me crazy trying to figure it out. Yuh needn't tell anybody, Pink, but it's like this: I was
just merely and simply romancing when I told that there blood-curdling tale! I never was south
uh the Wyoming line except when I was riding in a circus and toured through, and that's the
truth. I never was down in the San Simon basin. I never set on no pinnacle with no field glasses--"
Andy stopped short his labored confession to gaze, with deep disgust, upon Pink's convulsed
figure. "Well," he snapped, settling back on the pillow, "laugh, darn yuh! and show your ignorance!
By gracious, I wish I could see the joke!" He reached up gingerly and readjusted the bandage
on his head, eyed Pink sourly a moment, and with a grunt eloquent of the mood he was in turned
his face to the wall.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS MARTIN'S MISSION

When Andy Green, fresh-combed and shining with soap and towel polish, walked into the dining-room
of the Dry Lake Hotel, he felt not the slightest premonition of what was about to befall. His
chief sensation was the hunger which comes of early rising and of many hours spent in the open,
and beyond that he was hoping that the Chinaman cook had made some meat-pie, like he had the
week before. His eyes, searching unobtrusively the long table bearing the unmistakable signs
of many other hungry men gone before--for Andy was late--failed to warn him. He pulled out
his chair and sat down, still looking for meat-pie.

"Good afternoon!" cried an eager, feminine voice just across the table.

Andy started guiltily. He had been dimly aware that some one was sitting there, but, being
occupied with other things, had not given a thought to the sitter, or a glance. Now he did
both while he said good afternoon with perfunctory politeness.

"Such a beautiful day, isn't it? so invigorating, like rare, old wine!"

Andy assented somewhat dubiously; it had never just struck him that way; he thought fleetingly
that perhaps it was because he had never come across any rare, old wine. He ventured another
glance. She was not young, and she wore glasses, behind which twinkled very bright eyes of
a shade of brown. She had unpleasantly regular hair waves on her temples, and underneath the
waves showed streaks of gray. Also, she wore a black silk waist, and somebody's picture made
into a brooch at her throat. Further, Andy dared not observe. It was enough for one glance.
He looked again for the much-desired meat-pie.

The strange lady ingratiatingly passed him the bread. "You're a cowboy, aren't you?" was the
disconcerting question that accompanied the bread.

"Well, I--er--I punch cows," he admitted guardedly, his gaze elsewhere than on her face.

"I knew you were a cowboy, the moment you entered the door! I could tell by the tan and the
straight, elastic walk, and the silk handkerchief knotted around your throat in that picturesque
fashion. (Oh, I'm older than you, and dare speak as I think!) I've read a great deal about
cowboys, and I do admire you all as a type of free, great-hearted, noble manhood!"

Andy looked exactly as if someone had caught him at something exceedingly foolish. He tried
to sugar his coffee calmly, and so sent it sloshing all over the saucer.

"Do you live near here?" she asked next, beaming upon him in the orthodox, motherly fashion.

"Yes, ma'am, not very near," he was betrayed into saying--and she might make what she could
of it. He had not said "ma'am" before since he had gone to school.

"Oh, I've heard how you Western folks measure distances," she teased. "About how many miles?"

"About twenty."

"I suppose that is not far, to you knights of the plains. At home it would be called a dreadfully
long journey. Why, I have known numbers of old men and women who have never been so far from
their own doors in their lives! What would you think, I wonder, of their little forty acre farms?"

Andy had been brought to his sixteenth tumultuous birthday on a half-acre in the edge of a
good-sized town, but he did not say so. He shook his head vaguely and said he didn't know.
Andy Green, however, was not famous for clinging ever to the truth.

"You out here in this great, wide, free land, with the free winds ever blowing and the clouds--"

"Will you pass the butter, please?" Andy hated to interrupt, but he was hungry.

The strange lady passed the butter and sent with it a smile. "I have read and heard so much
about this wild, free life, and my heart has gone out to the noble fellows living their lonely
life with their cattle and their faithful dogs, lying beside their camp-fires at night while
the stars stood guard--"

Andy forgot his personal embarrassment and began to perk up his ears. This was growing interesting.

"--And I have felt how lonely they must be, with their rude fare and few pleasures, and what
a field there must be among them for a great and noble work; to uplift them and bring into
their lonely lives a broader, deeper meaning; to help them to help themselves to be better,
nobler men and women--"

"We don't have any lady cowpunchers out here," interposed Andy mildly.

The strange lady had merely gone astray a bit, being accustomed to addressing Mothers' Meetings
and the like. She recovered herself easily. "Nobler men, the bulwarks of our nation." She stopped
and eyed Andy archly. Andy, having observed that her neck was scrawny, with certain cords down
the sides that moved unpleasantly when she talked, tried not to look.

"I wonder if you can guess what brings me out here, away from home and friends! Can you guess?"

Andy thought of several things, but he could not feel that it would be polite to mention them.
Agent for complexion stuff, for instance, and next to that, wanting a husband. He shook his
head again and looked at his potato.

"You can't guess?" The tone was the one commonly employed for the encouragement, and consequent
demoralization of, a primary class. Andy realized that he was being talked down to, and his
combativeness awoke. "Well, away back in my home town, a woman's club has been thinking of
all you lonely fellows, and have felt their hearts swell with a desire to help you--so far
from home and mother's influence, with only the coarse pleasures of the West, and amid all
the temptations that lie in wait--" She caught herself back from speech-making--"and they have
sent me--away out here--to be your friend; to help you to help yourselves become better, truer
men and--" She did not say women, though, poor soul, she came near it. "So, I am going to be
your friend. I want to get in touch with you all, first; to win your confidence and teach you
to look upon me in the light of a mother. Then, when I have won your confidence, I want to
organize a Cowboys' Mutual Improvement and Social Society, to help you in the way of self-improvement
and to resist the snares laid for homeless boys like you. Don't you think I'm very--brave?"
She was smiling at him again, leaning back in her chair and regarding him playfully over her
glasses.

"You sure are," Andy assented, deliberately refraining from saying "yes, ma'am," as had been
his impulse.

"To come away out here--all alone--among all you wild cowboys with your guns buckled on and
your wicked little mustangs--Are you sure you won't shoot me?"

Andy eyed her pityingly. If she meant it, he thought, she certainly was wabbly in her mind.
If she thought that was the only kind of talk he could savvy, then she was a blamed idiot;
either way, he felt antagonistic. "The law shall be respected in your case," he told her, very
gravely.

She smiled almost as if she could see the joke; after which she became twitteringly, eagerly
in earnest. "Since you live near here, you must know the Whitmores. Miss Whitmore came out
here, two or three years ago, and married her brother's coachman, I believe--though I've heard
conflicting stories about it; some have said he was an artist, and others that he was a jockey,
or horse-trainer. I heard too that he was a cowboy; but Miss Whitmore certainly wrote about
this young man driving her brother's carriage. However, she is married and I have a letter
of introduction to her. The president of our club used to be a schoolmate of her mother. I
shall stop with them--I have heard so much about the Western hospitality--and shall get into
touch with my cowboys from the vantage point of proximity. Did you say you know them?"

"I work for them," Andy told her truthfully in his deep amazement, and immediately repented
and wished that he had not been so virtuous. With Andy, to wish was to do--given the opportunity.

"Then I can go with you out to their farm--ranchero! How nice! And on the way you can tell
me all about yourself and your life and hopes--because I do want to get in touch with you all,
you know--and I'll tell you all my plans for you; I have some beautiful plans! And we'll be
very good friends by the time we reach our destination, I'm sure. I want you to feel from the
start that I am a true friend, and that I have your welfare very much at heart. Without the
confidence of my cowboys, I can do nothing. Are there any more at home like you?"

Andy looked at her suspiciously, but it was so evident she never meant to quote comic opera,
that he merely wondered anew. He struggled feebly against temptation, and fell from grace quite
willingly. It isn't polite to "throw a load" at a lady, but then Andy felt that neither was
it polite for a lady to come out with the avowed intention of improving him and his fellows;
it looked to him like butting in where she was not wanted, or needed.

"Yes, ma'am, there's quite a bunch, and they're pretty bad. I don't believe you can do much
for 'em." He spoke regretfully.

"Do they--drink?" she asked, leaning forward and speaking in the hushed voice with which some
women approach a tabooed subject.

"Yes ma'am, they do. They're hard drinkers. And they"--he eyed her speculatively, trying to
guess the worst sins in her category--"they play cards--gamble--and swear, and smoke cigarettes
and--"

"All the more need of someone to help them overcome," she decided solemnly. "What you need
is a coffee-house and reading room here, so that the young men will have some place to go other
than the saloons. I shall see to that right away. And with the Mutual Improvement and Social
Society organized and working smoothly, and a library of standard works for recreation, together
with earnest personal efforts to promote temperance and clean-living, I feel that a wonderful
work can be done. I saw you drive into town, so I know you can take me out with you; I hope
you are going to start soon. I feel very impatient to reach the field and put my sickle to
the harvest."

Andy mentally threw up his hands before this unshakable person. He had meant to tell her that
he had come on horseback, but she had forestalled him. He had meant to discourage her--head
her off, he called it to himself. But there seemed no way of doing it. He pushed back his chair
and rose, though he had not tasted his pie, and it was lemon pie at that. He had some faint
notion of hurrying out of town and home before she could have time to get ready; but she followed
him to the door and chirped over his shoulder that it wouldn't take her two minutes to put
on her wraps. Andy groaned.

He tried--or started to try--holding out at Rusty Brown's till she gave up in despair; but
it occurred to him that Chip had asked him to hurry back. Andy groaned again, and got the team.

She did not wait for him to drive around to the hotel for her; possibly she suspected his intentions.
At any rate, she came nipping down the street toward the stable just as he was hooking the
last trace, and she was all ready and had a load of bags and bundles.

"I'm not going to begin by making trouble for you," she twittered. "I thought I could just
as well come down here to the wagon as have you drive back to the hotel. And my trunk did not
come on the train with me, so I'm all ready."

Andy, having nothing in mind that he dared say to a lady, helped her into the wagon.

At sundown or thereabouts--for the days were short and he had a load of various things besides
care--Andy let himself wearily into the bunk-house where was assembled the Happy Family. He
merely grunted when they spoke to him, and threw himself heavily down upon his bunk.

"For Heaven's sake, somebody roll me a cigarette! I'm too wore out to do a thing, and I haven't
had a smoke since dinner," he groaned, after a minute.

"Sick?" asked Pink solicitously.

"Sick as a dog! water, water!" moaned Andy. All at once he rolled over upon his face and shook
with laughter more than a little hysterical, and to the questioning of the Happy Family gave
no answer but howls. The Happy Family began to look at one another uneasily.

"Aw, let up!" Happy Jack bellowed. "You give a man the creeps just to listen at yuh."

"I'm going to empty the water-bucket over yuh in a minute," Pink threatened, "Go get it, Cal;
it's half full."

Andy knew well the metal of which the Happy Family was made, and the night was cool for a ducking.
He rolled back so that they could see his face, and struggled for calm. In a minute he sat
up and merely gurgled.

"Well, say, I had to do something or die," he explained, gasping. "I've gone through a heap,
the last few hours, and I was right where I couldn't do a thing. By gracious, I struck the
ranch about as near bug-house as a man can get and recover. Where's a cigarette?"

"What you've gone through--and I don't give a cuss what it is--ain't a marker for what's going
to happen if yuh don't loosen up on the history," said Jack Bates firmly.

Andy smoked hungrily while he surveyed the lot. "How calm and innocent yuh all look," he observed
musingly, "with your hats on and saying words that's rude, and smoking the vile weed regardless,
never dreaming what's going to drop, pretty soon quick. Yuh make me think of a hymn-song my
step-mother used to sing a lot, about 'They dreamed not of danger, those sinners of old, whom--"

"Hand me the water bucket," directed Pink musically.

"Oh, well--take it from the shoulder, then; I was only trying to lead up to it gradual, but
yuh will have it raw. You poor, dear cowboys, that live your lonely lives watching over your
cattle with your faithful dogs and the stars for company, you're going to be improved. (You'll
sure stand a lot of it, too!) A woman's relief club back East has felt the burden of your no-accountness
and general orneriness, and has sent one of its leading members out here to reform yuh. You're
going to be hazed into a Cowboys' Mutual Improvement and Social Society, and quit smoking cigarettes
and cussing your hosses and laying over Rusty's bar when yuh ride into town; and for pleasure
and recreation you're going to read Tennyson's poems, and when yuh get caught out in a blizzard
yuh'll be heeled with Whittier's Snowbound, pocket edition. Emerson and Browning and Shakespeare
and Gatty" (Andy misquoted; he meant Goethe) "and all them stiffs is going to be set before
yuh regular and in your mind constant, purging it of unclean thoughts, and grammar is going
to be learnt yuh as a side-line. Yuh--"

"Mama mine," broke in Weary. "I have thought sometimes, when Andy broke loose with that imagination
uh his, that he'd gone the limit; but next time he always raises the limit out uh sight. He's
like the Good Book says: he's prone to lie as the sparks fly-upward."

Andy gazed belligerently at the skeptical group. "I brought her out from town," he said doggedly,
"and whilst I own up to having an imagination, she's stranger than fiction. She'd make the
fellow that wrote "She" lay down with a headache. She's come out here to help us cowboys live
nobler, better lives. She's going to learn yuh Browning, darn yuh! and Emerson and Gatty. She
said so. She's going to fill your hearts with love for dumb creatures, so when yuh get set
afoot out on the range, or anything like that, yuh won't put in your time cussing the miles
between you and camp; you'll have a pocket edition of 'Much Ado About Nothing' to read, or
the speech Mark Anthony made when he was running for office. Or supposing yuh left 'em all
in camp, yuh'll study nature. There's sermons in stones, she says. She's going to send for
a pocket library that can easy be took on roundup--"

"Say, I guess that's about enough," interrupted Pink restlessly. "We all admit you're the biggest
liar that ever come West of the Mississippi, without you laying it on any deeper."

Whereupon Andy rose in wrath and made a suggestive movement with his fist. "If I was romancing,"
he declared indignantly, "I'd do a smoother job; when I do lie, I notice yuh all believe it--till
yuh find out different. And by gracious yuh might do as much when I'm telling the truth! Go
up to the White House and see, darn yuh! If yuh don't find Miss Verbena Martin up there telling
the Little Doctor how her heart goes out to her dear cowboys and how she's going to get in
touch with 'em and help 'em lead nobler, better lives, you can kick me all round the yard.
And I hope, by gracious, she does improve yuh! Yuh sure do need it a lot."

The Happy Family discussed the tale freely and without regard for the feelings of Andy; they
even became heated and impolite, and they made threats. They said that a liar like him ought
to be lynched or gagged, and that he was a disgrace to the outfit. In the end, however, they
decided to go and see, just to prove to Andy that they knew he lied. And though it was settled
that Weary and Pink should be the investigating committee, by the time they were halfway to
the White House they had the whole Happy Family trailing at their heels. A light snow had begun
to fall since dark, and they hunched their shoulders against it as they went. Grouped uncomfortably
just outside the circle of light cast through the unshaded window, they gazed silently in upon
Chip and the Little Doctor and J.G. Whitmore, and upon one other; a strange lady in a black
silk shirtwaist and a gold watch suspended from her neck by a chaste, black silken cord; a
strange lady with symmetrical waves in her hair and gray on her temples, and with glasses and
an eager way of speaking.

She was talking very rapidly and animatedly, and the others were listening and stealing glances
now and then at one another. Once, while they watched, the Little Doctor looked at Chip and
then turned her face toward the window. She was biting her lips in the way the Happy Family
had learned to recognize as a great desire to laugh. It all looked suspicious and corroborative
of Andy's story, and the Happy Family shifted their feet uneasily in the loose snow.

They watched, and saw the strange lady clasp her hands together and lean forward, and where
her voice had before come to them with no words which they could catch distinctly, they heard
her say something quite clearly in her enthusiasm: "Eight real cowboys here, almost within
reach! I must see them before I sleep! I must get in touch with them at once, and show them
that I am a true friend. Come, Mrs. Bennett! Won't you take me where they are and let me meet
my boys? for they are mine in spirit; my heart goes out to them--"

The Happy Family waited to hear no more, but went straightway back whence they had come, and
their going savored of flight.

"Mama mine! she's coming down to the bunkhouse!" said Weary under his breath, and glanced back
over his shoulder at the White House bulking large in the night. "Let's go on down to the stable
and roost in the hay a while."

"She'll out-wind us, and be right there waiting when we come back," objected Andy, with the
wisdom gained from his brief acquaintance with the lady. "If she's made up her mind to call
on us, there's no way under Heaven to head her off."

They halted by the bunk-house door, undecided whether to go in or to stay out in the open.

"By golly, she don't improve me!" Slim asserted pettishly. "I hate books like strychnine, and,
by golly, she can't make me read 'em, neither."

"If there's anything I do despise it's po'try," groaned Cal Emmett.

"Emerson and Browning and Shakespeare and Gatty," named Andy gloomily.

Whereat Pink suddenly pushed open the door and went in as goes one who knows exactly what he
is about to do. They followed him distressfully and silently. Pink went immediately to his
bunk and began pulling off his boots.

"I'm going to bed," he told them. "You fellows can stay up and entertain her if yuh want to--I
won't!"

They caught the idea and disrobed hastily, though the evening was young. Irish blew out the
lamp and dove under the blankets just as voices came faintly from up the hill, so that when
Chip rapped a warning with his knuckles on the door, there was no sound within save an artificial
snore from the corner where lay Pink. Chip was not in the habit of knocking before he entered,
but he repeated the summons with emphasis.

"Who's there-e?" drawled sleepily a voice--the voice of Weary.

"Oh, I do believe they've retired!" came, in a perturbed feminine tone, to the listening ears
of the Happy Family.

"Gone to bed?" cried Chip gravely.

"Hours ago," lied Andy fluently. "We're plumb wore out. What's happened?"

"Oh, don't disturb the poor fellows! They're tired and need their rest," came the perturbed
tone again. After that the voices and the footsteps went up the hill again, and the Happy Family
breathed freer. Incidentally, Pink stopped snoring and made a cigarette.

Going to bed at seven-thirty or thereabouts was not the custom of the Happy Family, but they
stayed under the covers and smoked and discussed the situation. They dared not have a light,
and the night was longer than they had ever known a night to be, for it was late before they
slept. It was well that Miss Verbena Martin could not overhear their talk, which was unchivalrous
and unfriendly in the extreme. The general opinion seemed to be that old maid improvers would
better stay at home where they might possibly be welcome, and that when the Happy Family wanted
improving they would let her know. Cal Emmett said that he wouldn't mind, if they had only
sent a young, pretty one. Happy Jack prophesied plenty of trouble, and boasted that she couldn't
haul him into no s'ciety. Slim declared again that by golly, she wouldn't do no improving on
him, and the others--Weary and Irish and Pink and Jack Bates and Andy--discussed ways and means
and failed always to agree. When each one hoots derision at all plans but his own, it is easy
guessing what will be the result. In this particular instance the result was voices raised
in argument--voices that reached Chip, grinning and listening on the porch of the White House--and
tardy slumber overtaking a disgruntled Happy Family on the brink of violence.

It was not a particularly happy Family that woke to memory and a snowy Sunday; woke late, because
of the disturbing evening. When they spoke to one another their voices were but growls, and
when they trailed through the snow to their breakfast they went in moody silence.

They had just brightened a bit before Patsy's Sunday breakfast, which included hot-cakes and
maple syrup, when the door was pushed quietly open and the Little Doctor came in, followed
closely by Miss Martin; an apologetic Little Doctor, who seemed, by her very manner of entering,
to implore them not to blame her for the intrusion. Miss Martin was not apologetic. She was
disconcertingly eager and glad to meet them, and pathetically anxious to win their favor.

Miss Martin talked, and the Happy Family ate hurriedly and with lowered eyelids. Miss Martin
asked questions, and the Happy Family kicked one another's shins under the table by way of
urging someone to reply; for this reason there was a quite perceptible pause between question
and answer, and the answer was invariably "the soul of wit"--according to that famous recipe.
Miss Martin told them naively all about her hopes and her plans and herself, and about the
distant woman's club that took so great an interest in their welfare, and the Happy Family
listened dejectedly and tried to be polite. Also, they did not relish the hot-cakes as usual,
and Patsy had half the batter left when the meal was over, instead of being obliged to mix
more, as was usually the case.

When they had eaten, the Happy Family filed out decorously and went hastily down to the stables.
They did not say much, but they did glance over their shoulders uneasily once or twice.

"The old girl is sure hot on our trail," Pink remarked when they were safely through the big
gate. "She must uh got us mixed up with some Wild West show, in her mind. Josephine!"

"Well, by golly, she don't improve me," Slim repeated for about the tenth time.

The horses were all fed and everything tidy for the day, and several saddles were being hauled
down significantly from their pegs, when Irish delivered himself of a speech, short but to
the point. Irish had been very quiet and had taken no part in the discussion that had waxed
hot all that morning.

"Now, see here," he said in his decided way. "Maybe it didn't strike you as anything but funny--which
it sure is. But yuh want to remember that the old girl has come a dickens of a long ways to
do us some good. She's been laying awake nights thinking about how we'll get to calling her
something nice: Angel of the Roundup, maybe--you can't tell, she's that romantic. And right
here is where I'm going to give the old girl the worth of her money. It won't hurt us, letting
her talk wild and foolish at us once a week, maybe; and the poor old thing'll just be tickled
to death thinking what a lot uh good she's doing. She won't stay long, and--well, I go in.
If she'll feel better and more good to the world improving me, she's got my permission. I guess
I can stand it a while."

The Happy Family looked at him queerly, for if there was a black sheep in the flock, Irish
was certainly the man; and to have Irish take the stand he did was, to say the least, unexpected.

Cal Emmett blurted the real cause of their astonishment. "You'll have to sign the pledge, first
pass," he said. "That's going to be the ante in her game. How--"

"Well, I don't play nobody's hand, or stake anybody's chips, but my own," Irish retorted, the
blood showing under the tan on his cheeks.

"And we won't das't roll a cigarette, even, by golly!" reminded Slim. For Miss Martin, whether
intentionally or not, had made plain to them the platform of the new society.

Irish got some deep creases between his eyebrows, and put back his saddle. "You can do as yuh
like," he said, coldly. "I'm going to stay and go to meeting this afternoon, according to her
invite. If it's going to make that poor old freak feel any better thinking she's a real missionary--"
He turned and walked out of the stable without finishing the sentence, and the Happy Family
stood quite still and watched him go.

Pink it was who first spoke. "I ain't the boy to let any long-legged son-of-a-gun like Irish
hit a gait I can't follow," he dimpled, and took the saddle reluctantly off Toots. "If he can
stand it, I guess I can."

Weary loosened his latigo. "If Cadwolloper is going to learn poetry, I will, too," he grinned.
"Mama! it'll be good as a three-ringed circus! I never thought uh that, before. I couldn't
miss it."

"Oh, well, if you fellows take a hand, I'll sure have to be there to see," Andy decided. "Two
o'clock, did she say?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I hate to be called a quitter," Pink remarked dispiritedly to the Happy Family in general;
a harassed looking Happy Family, which sat around and said little, and watched the clock. In
an hour they would be due to attend the second meeting of the M.I.S.S.--and one would think,
from the look of them, that they were about to be hanged. "I hate to be called a quitter, but
right here's where I lay 'em down. The rest of yuh can go on being improved, if yuh want to--darned
if I will, though. I'm all in."

"I don't recollect hearing anybody say we wanted to," growled Jack Bates. "Irish, maybe, is
still burning with a desire to be nice and chivalrous; but you can count me out. One dose is
about all I can stand."

"By golly, I wouldn't go and feel that foolish again, not if yuh paid me for it," Slim declared.

Irish grinned and reached for his hat. "I done my damnettest," he said cheerfully. "I made
the old girl happy once; now, one Irish Mallory is due to have a little joy coming his way.
I'm going to town."

    "'Break, break, break, on thy cold, gray crags, oh sea,
    And I would that my tongue could utter the thoughts that come over me.'

"You will observe, gentlemen, the beautiful sentiment, the euphonious rhythm, the noble--"
Weary went down, still declaiming mincingly, beneath four irate bodies that hurled themselves
toward him and upon him.

"We'll break, break, break every bone in your body if you don't shut up. You will observe the
beautiful sentiment of that a while," cried Pink viciously. "I've had the euphonious rhythm
of my sleep broke up ever since I set there and listened at her for two hours. Josephine!"

Irish stopped with his hand on the door knob. "I was the jay that started it," he admitted
contritely. "But, honest, I never had a hunch she was plumb locoed; I thought she was just
simply foolish. Come on to town, boys!"

Such is the power of suggestion that in fifteen minutes the Happy Family had passed out of
sight over the top of the grade; all save Andy Green, who told them he would be along after
a while, and that they need not wait. He looked at the clock, smoked a meditative cigarette
and went up to the White House, to attend the second meeting of the Mutual Improvement and
Social Society.

When he faced alone Miss Verbena Martin, and explained that the other members were unavoidably
absent because they had a grudge against a man in Dry Lake and had gone in to lynch him and
burn the town, Miss Martin was shocked into postponing the meeting. Andy said he was glad,
because he wanted to go in and see the fight; undoubtedly, he assured her, there would be a
fight, and probably a few of them would get killed off. He reminded her that he had told her
right in the start that they were a bad lot, and that she would have hard work reforming them;
and finally, he made her promise that she would not mention to anyone what he had told her,
because it wouldn't be safe for him, or for her, if they ever got to hear of it. After that
Andy also took the trail to town, and he went at a gallop and smiled as he rode.

Miss Martin reflected shudderingly upon the awful details of the crime, as hinted at by Andy,
and packed her trunk. It might be brave and noble to stay and work among all those savages,
but she doubted much whether it were after all her duty. She thought of many ways in which
she could do more real good nearer home. She had felt all along that these cowboys were an
untrustworthy lot; she had noticed them glancing at one another in a secret and treacherous
manner, all through the last meeting, and she was positive they had not given her that full
confidence without which no good can be accomplished. That fellow they called Happy looked
capable of almost any crime; she had never felt quite safe in his presence.

Miss Martin pictured them howling and dancing around the burning dwellings of their enemies,
shooting every one they could see; Miss Martin had imagination, of a sort. But while she pictured
the horrors of an Indian massacre she continued to pack her suit-case and to consult often
her watch. When she could do no more it occurred to her that she would better see if someone
could take her to the station. Fortunately for all concerned, somebody could. One might go
further and say that somebody was quite willing to strain a point, even, in order to get her
there in time for the next train.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Happy Family was gathered in Rusty Brown's place, watching Irish do things to a sheep-man
from Lonesome Prairie, in a game of pool. They were just giving vent to a prolonged whoop of
derision at the sheep-man's play, when a rig flashed by the window. Weary stopped with his
mouth wide open and stared; leaned to the window and craned to see more clearly.

"Mama mine!" he ejaculated incredulously. "I could swear I saw Miss Verbena in that rig, with
her trunk, and headed towards the depot. Feel my pulse, Cadwolloper, and see if I'm normal."

But Pink was on his way to the back door, and from there climbed like a cat to the roof of
the coal-house, where, as he knew from experience, one could see the trail to the depot, and
the depot itself.

"It's sure her," he announced. "Chip's driving like hell, and the smoke uh the train's just
coming around the bend from the big field. Wonder what struck her so sudden?" He turned and
looked down into the grinning face of Andy Green.

"She was real insulted because you fellows played hookey," Andy explained. "I tried to explain,
but it didn't help none. I don't believe her heart went out to us like she claimed, anyhow."

       *       *       *       *       *

HAPPY JACK, WILD MAN.

Happy Jack, over on the Shonkin range, saw how far it was to the river and mopped the heat-crimsoned
face of him with a handkerchief not quite as clean as it might have been. He hoped that the
Flying U wagons would be where he had estimated that they would be; for he was aweary of riding
with a strange outfit, where his little personal peculiarities failed to meet with that large
tolerance accorded by the Happy Family. He didn't think much of the Shonkin crew; grangers
and pilgrims, he called them disgustedly in his mind. He hoped the Old Man would not send him
on that long trip with them south of the Highwoods--which is what he was on his way to find
out about. What Happy Jack was hoping for, was to have the Old Man--as represented by Chip--send
one of the boys back with him to bring over what Flying U cattle had been gathered, together
with Happy's bed and string of horses. Then he would ride with the Happy Family on the familiar
range that was better, in his eyes, than any other range that ever lay outdoors--and the Shonkin
outfit could go to granny. (Happy did not, however, say "granny").

He turned down the head of a coulee which promised to lead him, by the most direct route--if
any route in the Badlands can be called direct--to the river, across which, and a few miles
up on Suction Creek, he confidently expected to find the Flying U wagons. The coulee wound
aimlessly, with precipitous sides that he could not climb, even by leading his horse. Happy
Jack, under the sweltering heat of mid-June sunlight, once more mopped his face, now more crimson
than ever, and relapsed into his habitual gloom. Just when he was telling himself pessimistically
that the chances were he would run slap out on a cut bank where he couldn't get down to the
river at all, the coulee turned again and showed the gray-blue water slithering coolly past,
with the far bank green and sloping invitingly.

The horse hurried forward at a shuffling trot and thrust his hot muzzle into the delicious
coolness. Happy Jack slipped off and, lying flat on his stomach, up-stream from the horse,
drank deep and long, then stood up, wiped his face and considered the necessity of crossing.
Just at this point the river was not so wide as in others, and for that reason the current
flowed swiftly past. Not too swiftly, however, if one took certain precautions. Happy Jack
measured mentally the strength of the current and the proper amount of caution which it would
be expedient to use, and began his preparations; for the sun was sliding down hill toward the
western skyline, and he wished very much to reach the wagons in time for supper, if he could.

Standing in the shade of the coulee wall, he undressed deliberately, folding each garment methodically
as he took it off. When the pile was complete to socks and boots, he rolled it into a compact
bundle and tied it firmly upon his saddle. Stranger, his horse, was a good swimmer, and always
swam high out of water. He hoped the things would not get very wet; still, the current was
strong, and his characteristic pessimism suggested that they would be soaked to the last thread.
So, naked as our first ancestor, he urged his horse into the stream, and when it was too deep
for kicking--Stranger was ever uncertain and not to be trusted too far--he caught him firmly
by the tail and felt the current grip them both. The feel of the water was glorious after so
long a ride in the hot sun, and Happy Jack reveled in the cool swash of it up his shoulders
to the back of his neck, as Stranger swam out and across to the sloping, green bank on the
home side. When his feet struck bottom, Happy Jack should have waded also--but the water was
so deliciously cool, slapping high up on his shoulders like that; he still floated luxuriously,
towed by Stranger--until Stranger, his footing secure, glanced back at Happy sliding behind
like a big, red fish, snorted and plunged up and on to dry land.

Happy Jack struck his feet down to bottom, stumbled and let go his hold of the tail, and Stranger,
feeling the weight loosen suddenly, gave another plunge and went careering up the bank, snorting
back at Happy Jack. Happy swore, waded out and made threats, but Stranger, seeing himself pursued
by a strange figure whose only resemblance to his master lay in voice and profanity, fled in
terror before him.

Happy Jack, crippling painfully on the stones, fled fruitlessly after, still shouting threats.
Then, as Stranger, galloping wildly, disappeared over a ridge, he stood and stared stupidly
at the place where the horse had last been seen. For the moment his mind refused to grasp all
the horror of his position; he stepped gingerly over the hot sand and rocks, sought the shelter
of a bit of overhanging bank, and sat dazedly down upon a rock too warm for comfort. He shifted
uneasily to the sand beside, found that still hotter, and returned to the rock.

He needed to think; to grasp this disaster that had come so suddenly upon him. He looked moodily
across to the southern bank, his chin sunken between moist palms, the while the water dried
upon his person. To be set afoot, down here in the Badlands, away from the habitations of men
and fifteen miles from the probable location of the Flying U camp, was not nice. To be set
afoot naked--it was horrible, and unbelievable. He thought of tramping, barefooted and bare-legged,
through fifteen miles of sage-covered Badlands to camp, with the sun beating down on his unprotected
back, and groaned in anticipation. Not even his pessimism had ever pictured a thing so terrible.

He gazed at the gray-blue river which had caused this trouble that he must face, and forgetting
the luxury of its coolness, cursed it venomously. Little waves washed up on the pebbly bank,
and glinted in the sun while they whispered mocking things to him. Happy Jack gave over swearing
at the river, and turned his wrath upon Stranger--Stranger, hurtling along somewhere through
the breaks, with all Happy's clothes tied firmly to the saddle. Happy Jack sighed lugubriously
when he remembered how firmly. A fleeting hope that, if he followed the trail of Stranger,
he might glean a garment or two that had slipped loose, died almost before it lived. Happy
Jack knew too well the kind of knots he always tied. His favorite boast that nothing ever worked
loose on his saddle, came back now to mock him with its absolute truth.

The sun, dropping a bit lower, robbed him inch by inch of the shade to which he clung foolishly.
He hunched himself into as small a space as his big frame would permit, and hung his hat upon
his knees where they stuck out into the sunlight. It was very hot, and his position was cramped,
but he would not go yet; he was still thinking--and the brain of Happy Jack worked ever slowly.
In such an unheard-of predicament he felt dimly that he had need of much thought.

When not even his hat could shield him from the sun glare, he got up and went nipping awkwardly
over the hot beach. He was going into the next river-bottom--wherever that was--on the chance
of finding a cow-camp, or some cabin where he could, by some means, clothe himself. He did
not like the idea of facing the Happy Family in his present condition; he knew the Happy Family.
Perhaps he might find someone living down here next the river. He hoped so--for Happy Jack,
when things were so bad they could not well be worse, was forced to give over the prediction
of further evil, and pursue blindly the faintest whisper of hope. He got up on the bank, where
the grass was kinder to his unaccustomed feet than were the hot stones below, and hurried away
with his back to the sun, that scorched him cruelly.

In the next bottom--and he was long getting to it--the sage brush grew dishearteningly thick.
Happy began to be afraid of snakes. He went slowly, stepping painfully where the ground seemed
smoothest; he never could walk fifteen miles in his bare feet, he owned dismally to himself.
His only hope lay in getting clothes.

Halfway down the bottom, he joyfully came upon a camp, but it had long been deserted; from
the low, tumble-down corrals, and the unmistakable atmosphere of the place, Happy Jack knew
it for a sheep camp. But nothing save the musty odor and the bare cabin walls seemed to have
been left behind. He searched gloomily, thankful for the brief shade the cabin offered. Then,
tossed up on the rafters and forgotten, he discovered a couple of dried sheep pelts, untanned
and stiff, almost, as shingles. Still, they were better than nothing, and he grinned in sickly
fashion at the find.

Realizing, in much pain, that some protection for his feet was an absolute necessity, he tore
a pelt in two for sandals. Much search resulted in the discovery of a bit of rotted rope, which
he unraveled and thereby bound a piece of sheepskin upon each bruised foot. They were not pretty,
but they answered the purpose. The other pelt he disposed of easily by tying the two front
legs together around his neck and letting the pelt hang down his back as far as it would reach.
There being nothing more that he could do in the way of self-adornment, Happy Jack went out
again into the hot afternoon. At his best, Happy Jack could never truthfully be called handsome;
just now, clothed inadequately in gray Stetson hat and two meager sheepskins, he looked scarce
human.

Cheered a bit, he set out sturdily over the hills toward the mouth of Suction Creek. The Happy
Family would make all kinds of fools of themselves, he supposed, if he showed up like this;
but he might not be obliged to appear before them in his present state of undress; he might
strike some other camp, first. Happy Jack was still forced to be hopeful. He quite counted
on striking another camp before reaching the wagons of the Flying U.

The sun slid farther and farther toward the western rim of tumbled ridges as Happy Jack, in
his strange raiment, plodded laboriously to the north. The mantle he was forced to shift constantly
into a new position as the sun's rays burned deep a new place, or the stiff hide galled his
blistered shoulders. The sandals did better, except that the rotten strands of rope were continually
wearing through on the bottom, so that he must stop and tie fresh knots, or replace the bit
from the scant surplus which he had prudently brought along.

Till sundown he climbed toilfully up the steep hills and then scrambled as toilfully into the
coulees, taking the straightest course he knew for the mouth of Suction Creek; that, as a last
resort, while he watched keenly for the white flake against green which would tell of a tent
pitched there in the wilderness. He was hungry--when he forgot other discomforts long enough
to think of it. Worst, perhaps, was the way in which the gaunt sage brush scratched his unclothed
legs when he was compelled to cross a patch on some coulee bottom. Happy Jack swore a great
deal, in those long, heat-laden hours, and never did he so completely belie the name men had
in sarcasm given him.

Just when he was given over to the most gloomy forebodings, a white square stood out for a
moment sharply against a background of pines, far below him in a coulee where the sun was peering
fleetingly before it dove out of sight over a hill. Happy Jack--of a truth, the most unhappy
Jack one could find, though he searched far and long--stood still and eyed the white patch
critically. There was only the one; but another might be hidden in the trees. Still, there
was no herd grazing anywhere in the coulee, and no jingle of cavvy bells came to his ears,
though he listened long. He was sure that it was not the camp of the Flying U, where he would
be ministered unto faithfully, to be sure, yet where the ministrations would be mingled with
much wit-sharpened raillery harder even to bear than was his present condition of sun-blisters
and scratches. He thanked the Lord in sincere if unorthodox terms, and went down the hill in
long, ungraceful strides.

It was far down that hill, and it was farther across the coulee. Each step grew more wearisome
to Happy Jack, unaccustomed as he was to using his own feet as a mode of travel. But away in
the edge of the pine grove were food and raiment, and a shelter from the night that was creeping
down on him with the hurried stealth of a mountain lion after its quarry. He shifted the sheepskin
mantle for the thousandth time; this time he untied it from his galled shoulders and festooned
it modestly if unbecomingly about his middle.

Feeling sure of the unfailing hospitality of the rangeland, be the tent-dweller whom he might,
Happy Jack walked boldly through the soft, spring twilight that lasts long in Montana, and
up to the very door of the tent. A figure--a female figure--slender and topped by thin face
and eyes sheltered behind glasses, rose up, gazed upon him in horror, shrieked till one could
hear her a mile, and fell backward into the tent. Another female figure appeared, looked, and
shrieked also--and even louder than did the first. Happy Jack, with a squawk of dismay, turned
and flew incontinently afar into the dusk. A man's voice he heard, shouting inquiry; another,
shouting what, from a distance, sounded like threats. This was denied by M. Charles, to whom
Enguerrand in consequence gave the lie; and the former took the affront so cruelly to heart, that
Enguerrand, brave man as he was, was afterwards hanged in consequence of it. When the conditions
of battle were arranged, the Lord of Harecourt came into the field with his armor emblazoned with
fleurs-de-lys; and the combatants fought with the utmost valor, till the Kings of England and
of Navarre, who were present, besought the monarch of France to stay the fight; for that it
would be great pity that two so valiant chiefs should fall by each other's hand. Upon this,
the king cried'Ho!'and both parties were satisfied; and peace was made between them by the foreign
sovereigns, in the year 1300.

"The same circumstance is related, though with some trifling variations in the details, by Masseville,
in his History of Normandy, a work of which almost every volume bears frequent testimony to the
greatness of the house of Tancarville. This family enjoyed the hereditary dignity of chamberlain
to the Norman dukes; but at what period it was conferred upon them,
is lost in the obscurity of early history.

Ralph de Tancarville, who founded the abbey of St. Georges de Bocherville, about the year 1050, [192]
is styled in the Neustria Pia, under the account of that monastry, as" Tancardi-Villæ Toparcha,
præfectus hæreditarius cubiculo Guillelmi secundi. "In 1066, the name of the Count of Tancarville [193]
is enumerated among those who attended the Conqueror into England. The chamberlain of Tancarville
is recorded both by Ordericus Vitalis and Masseville, in the list of Norman knights that distinguished
themselves in the wars of Philip-Augustus. William of Tancarville, the same chieftain, probably,
or his immediate predecessor, had previously suffered himself to be seduced by the arts of Eleanor,
queen of Henry II. to join in the conspiracy of the sons of that monarch, against their father:
he subsequently signalized his valor, when the banners of the lion-hearted Richard were unfurled
upon the plains of Palestine. In 1197, Ralph of Tancarville was one of the witnesses to the
treaty of exchange, already more than once mentioned in this work, made between the sovereign
and the archbishop of Rouen, in consequence of the building of Château
Gaillard; and when, eight years afterwards, Philip, having become
undisputed master of Normandy, conciliated the favor of the clergy
by important concessions, the signature and seal of the chamberlain
of Tancarville were attached to the instrument.-- The task were easy,
by multiplying quotations from Masseville and the early chroniclers,
to extend to a great length the instances in which the noblemen of
the house of Tancarville acted a prominent part in Norman history.

It will be sufficient, upon the present occasion, to adduce two circumstances, as indisputable
proofs of their importance. The name of Tancarville is found among the seventy-two members of
the nobility, who, in the beginning of the fourteenth century, were summoned to the Norman exchequer;
and, in the same century, in the year 1320, after Philip VI. upon his accession to the throne
of France, had received at Amiens the homage of Edward III. for the dukedom of Aquitaine and
earldom of Ponthieu, the Count of Tancarville was selected for the
important office of ambassador to England, in conjunction with the
Duke of Bourbon and the Earl of Harcourt, to obtain from the monarch
some explanations that were considered indispensable for the dignity
of the crown of France.

As late as the year 1451, the Lord of Tancarville appears as one of the generals of the French
forces, which, under the command of the Count of Longueville, finally succeeded in expelling the
English from Normandy. From that time forward, Masseville makes no
mention of the family.

Respecting the castle, he is altogether silent, except upon the occasion of its capture by the
French in 1435, and its surrender to them again in 1449.

It may have been observed in the preceding brief enumeration of a
few principal facts connected with the family of Tancarville, that
the Lords of that house have, on more than one occasion, been designated
as Counts: the author of the Description de la Haute Normandie, however,
expressly states that this property was not raised into an earldom
till the reign of King John of France, who ennobled it with that dignity
in 1351; at which time it was composed of all the fiefs, castellanies,
baronies, and other lands of every description, in the duchy of Normandy,
occupied by John de Melun, and Jane Crepin his wife.

From the house of Melun, this same earldom passed into that of Harcourt, by the union of Jane
of Melun with William of Harcourt-- their daughter, who inherited the property, afterwards carried
it in dower to John, Count of Dunois and of Longueville. In the year 1505, when Louis XII. added
to the earls of Longueville the higher honor of the dukedom, Tancarville was comprised among
the dependencies of the new dignity; and when, shortly afterwards, the duchy of Longueville
escheated to the crown, the earldom of Tancarville, remaining united to Longueville, shared
the same fate. Mary of Orleans, duchess of Nemours and Estouteville, having become possessed
of Tancarville, sold it in September, 1706, to Anthony Crozat, the
king's secretary; and, at the same time, the monarch conferred all
the rights and privileges attached to the domain, upon Louis de la
Tour d'Auvergne, Count of Evreux.

Twelve years subsequently, the king, by his letters patent, separated Tancarville from Longueville,
and ordered that the Lords of Tancarville should thenceforth be summoned
to the parliament at Rouen.

The
title of Earl of Tankerville is at the present day to be found in the English peerage. It is borne
by a descendant of Charles Bennet, second Lord of Ossulston, upon
whom it was conferred by George I. in 1714, after he had married the
daughter and heiress of Ford, Lord Grey of Wark, Earl of Tankerville.

One of the family of this Lord Grey, Sir John Grey, Knight, Captain of Maunt, in Normandy,
had originally been rewarded with the title by King Henry V. for his eminent services in the French
wars.

But his grandson, Richard, Earl of Tankerville, was attainted in the thirty-eighth year of the
succeeding reign; and the title remained dormant till re-granted by King William III. to Ford,
Lord Grey, just mentioned, who was lineally descended from the brother
of the first earl.

Different
opinions have prevailed with respect to the origin of the name of Tancarville. Ordericus Vitalis
calls it Tanchardi Villa: M. de Valois, in his Notitia Galliæ, is disposed to claim for it the more
imposing appellation of Tancredi Villa. The point will in all probability never be settled: it
is more to be regretted, that no account is to be found of the building
of the castle, whose lofty towers still frown in the pride of old
baronial grandeur, from the summit of a steep cliff upon the right
bank of the Seine, which here, so near its mouth, rather assumes the
character of an estuary than a river.

The wide extent of the ruins sufficiently bespeaks the importance of its former possessors: at
present, nothing can be more forlorn and desolate. Parallel with this terrace, runs the more
modernised part of the castle, which the last residing owner inhabited.

It may have been built about fifty years ago, and is-- or rather the remains of it are-- quite in
the modern style of domestic architecture. The rooms are large, lofty, and commodious;-- yet nothing
but the shells of them remain. The revolutionary patriots completely gutted them of every useful
and every valuable piece of furniture; and even the bare walls are beginning to grow damp, and
threaten immediate decay. I made several memoranda upon the spot, which have been unluckily,
and I fear irretrievably, misplaced; so that, of this once vast,
and yet commanding and interesting edifice, I regret that I am compelled
to send you so short and so meagre an account.

Farewell-- a long and perhaps perpetual farewell-- to the Castle
of Montmorenci!"

NOTES: [192] According to Masseville, (Histoire de Normandie, II.
p. 192,) this abbey was not founded till the year 1114; but such a
statement is irreconcileable with the fact of the dead body of the
Conqueror having been carried there in 1087; and, moreover, both the
Gallia Christiana and Neustria Pia expressly state that it was in
1114 that William, fifth son of the founder, and himself also hereditary
chamberlain of Normandy, removed from St. Georges the canons established
there by his father, and replaced them with monks from St. Evroul.

[193] So called by Masseville, I. p. 205. [194] Mr. Dibdin uniformly calls this castle, the Castle
of Montmorenci; but on no occasion does he state his authority for so doing; the author of
these remarks never heard it so styled in Normandy, nor can he find
it mentioned under that name by Nodier, or any other author. If, as
appears probable, the people of the neighborhood are in the habit of
so designating it, the probability is, that the modern part (see plate
eighty-five) was erected at a period when Tancarville belonged to
some member of the noble family of Montmorenci.

PLATE LXXXVII. AND LXXXVIII.

CHURCH OF THE HOLY CROSS, AT ST. LO. (WESTERN DOOR-WAY, AND VARIOUS SPECIMENS
OF SCULPTURE.) The town of St. Lo is said to owe its origin to the Emperor
Charlemagne, and to have been founded by him in the fifth year of
the ninth century.

It is situated in the western part of Normandy, upon the small river, Vire, about five leagues
to the east of Coutances; and at this time it contains nearly seven thousand inhabitants. Old
chroniclers relate that the name originally given to the place was
Ste Croix; but that, soon after its foundation, it exchanged that
appellation for the present, upon being selected as the spot to be
honored with the reception of the relics of St. Lo, or, as he is called
in Latin, St. Laudus, who was the fifth bishop of Coutances, and presided
over that see the greater part of the sixth century.

Of the merits of the saint, the miracles he performed both living
and dead, and the various places that have, at different times, received
his mortal remains, a copious account is given by M. Rouault, in his
History of the Bishops of Coutances.

It is sufficient, in the present instance, to state, that, upon the
translation of the body of St. Lo to the spot now dignified with his
name, a magnificent church was built under his invocation; and the
town was encompassed with fortifications of great strength, to defend
it against the inroads of the Normans.

These heathen plunderers had at this time just begun their ravages
in Neustria, when, notwithstanding its new walls, St. Lo was soon
obliged, in common with the rest of the province, to submit to their
sway; and they emptied upon the Christian city the full phials of
pagan wrath, by burning it to the ground.

In subsequent, and probably not distant, times, St. Lo was again converted into a place of defence;
and mention of it as such repeatedly occurs in the various unquiet periods of French history.
Even at the present day, when fortifications in that part of the kingdom have long been neglected,
there remain sufficient vestiges of them at St. Lo, to convey the
most imposing idea of their original strength, aided as they must
have been, by their situation upon the summit of a lofty and inaccessible
rock.-- St. Lo was one of the last towns in Lower Normandy that opened
their gates to the victorious arms of the Empress Maude: it remained
unshaken in its allegiance till 1142, only two years before the death
of the English monarch.-- In the third year of the following century,
it surrendered without bloodshed to Philip-Augustus, then on his march
towards the capture of Mount St. Michael; nor does it appear to have
offered more than a trifling resistance to Edward III. by whom it
was taken in 1346.

Froissart, upon that occasion, gives the following details relative to the English army, as
well as to the state of the town and its capture:-- "The King of England and Prince of Wales
had, in their battalion, about three thousand men at arms, six thousand archers, and ten thousand
infantry, without counting those that were under the marshals; and they marched in the manner I have
before mentioned, burning and destroying the country, but without breaking their line of battle.
They did not turn towards Coutances, but advanced to St. Lo, in Coutantin, which, in those days, was
a very rich and commercial town, and worth three such towns as Coutances. In the town of St.
Lo was much drapery, and many wealthy inhabitants; among them you might count eight or nine score
that were engaged in commerce. When the King of England was come near the town, he encamped: he
would not lodge in it for fear of fire. He sent, therefore, his advanced guard forward, who soon
conquered it at a trifling loss, and completely plundered it. No one can imagine the quantity
of riches they found in it, nor the number of bales of cloth. If there had been any purchasers,
they might have bought them at a cheap rate." In 1379, when the English
arms, during the minority of the second Richard, obtained in France
an ephemeral superiority, St. Lo was the only town in the Côtentin,
except Carentan, which the French monarch considered of sufficient
strength to justify him in entrusting it with a garrison.-- It was
taken by the English, under Henry V. in 1418; and was again restored
to the French, by capitulation, thirty-one years subsequently.-- In
the beginning of the following tumultuous reign, St. Lo and Valognes
were appointed as the places of residence for Clarence and Warwick,
and the other leaders of the Lancastrian party; after their short-lived
success, in favor of the deposed Henry, had been followed by their
own utter defeat, and the final discomfiture of their hopes.

During the religious wars of the sixteenth century, St. Lo was once more so unfortunate as to act a
prominent part. Early in the troubles, it distinguished itself by a decided devotion to the cause
of Protestantism; and, though often obliged, by the current of affairs, to yield a reluctant submission
to the opposite party, it continued throughout the whole of the
struggle, unshaken in its attachment to the Huguenots. Hence, when
finally summoned to surrender to the Catholics, in 1574, it rather chose
to expose itself to all the miseries of a siege, as well as to the still
greater one of being taken by assault; and the severity of its sufferings
is recorded by the historians of the conquering party, who themselves
admit, that "it was sacked with a horrible carnage." [195] Its Protestant
places of worship were not, however, finally rased, till 1685, the period
of the revocation of the edict of Nantes. St. Lo was the seat of an
abbey of Augustine friars, said to have been founded in the middle
of the twelfth century, and to have been of such celebrity, that,
according to Quercetanus, the bishops of Coutances were contented
for a time to be styled bishops of St. Lo.

[196] The principal church in the place, that of Notre Dame, greatly resembles the cathedral of
Coutances, of which it is even said to be a copy. It was not begun
to be built till the period of English rule in Normandy, during the
fifteenth century. The older, or clock-tower, was erected in 1430: the
opposite tower and western entrance, in 1464. Other parts of it were
not completed till the following century; and the northern spire is
a work of as late a period as 1685.

The very ancient church of Ste Croix, (the subject of these plates,) was connected with the abbey,
of which little now remains. There is a tradition in the town, that
it was once a temple of Ceres; and such traditions, however uncritical
or even absurd, deserve to be noticed, as generally originating in
a confused knowledge of the remote date of the building to which they
are attached.

In the opinion of M. de Gerville, a portion, at least, of the church,
belongs to the edifice raised by Charlemagne, in 805. The actual erection
of such an edifice, and its dedication to the holy cross, are facts
distinctly stated in the Neustria Pia: its identity with the present
church does not appear to be doubted, either by Du Monstier, or the
Abbé de Billy, the historian of St. Lo.

At the same time, neither the one nor the other of these writers
was ignorant of the positive assertion in the Gesta Normannorum,
that, under those successful invaders-- "Sancti Laudi castrum, interfectis
habitatoribus, terræ æquatum est."

But, in opposition to this, M. de Gerville contends that, either this strong assertion is to
be received with a certain degree of latitude, or that, by the word castrum, is to be understood
only the citadel; so that, while that was destroyed, the domestic
and religious edifices were suffered to escape.

He even thinks that the parts of the building ascribable to the period
of the Carlovingian dynasty, may be distinguished by a practised eye,
from the reparations of the eleventh century.

He traces them especially in the western front, in its door-way, (plate eighty-seven) and in
some herring-bone masonry, observable over a narrow circular-headed window towards the south.
But he founds his opinion still more upon the bas-relief, representing the Deity attended
by angels, (plate eighty-eight, fig. B.) now built into the wall at the end of the nave, on
the south side. The character of the sculpture and the form of the letters appear to him to be
almost decisive. With regard to the latter, he observes;-- "it is well known that the Roman characters
were restored by Charlemagne, especially after he had been proclaimed emperor. This fact is sufficiently
attested by the various monuments still left us of his time, as well
as by the coins which were struck in the latter part of his reign,
and during that of Louis le Débonnaire.

Elegance and simplicity in the shape of the letters, characterized the writing of this epoch;
and the latter, at least, of these qualities, is eminently to be found in the inscription at
St. Lo. On the other hand, correct orthography was not equally one of the excellencies of
the age." Pursuing the subject yet farther, M. de Gerville gives it as his opinion, that the different
epochs in the architecture, commonly designated as Norman, may be determined with some degree
of precision; and he thinks he can trace, in several churches of the vicinity, an evident imitation
of this at St. Lo; while he regards the superior antiquity of the latter
decisively established by the sculpture over the western entrance; by the
medallion of the Deity, already noticed; and by several of the capitals of the
interior; particularly those that have reference to the legends of
St. Eloy, (plate eighty-eight, fig. F.) and St. Hubert, (fig. D.),
both at that period quite recent; and two of the others, (fig C. and
E.) in the latter of which, the devil is roasting unfortunate sinners,
while the former, exhibiting the psychostasia, affords a graphic illustration
of two lines of the well-known hymn of the Roman Catholic church:--
"Statera facta corporis, Prædamque tulit Tartari."

In the western front of the church of Ste Croix have been inserted, above the door-way, three
windows of the earliest pointed style. The whole of the sculpture over the architraves of the arch,
is, both in its design and execution, curious. The knotted serpents,
terminating at either end in heads of devils; the two men tugging at
rings, attached to a chain twisted round the neck of a decapitated
demon, whom, two dogs are baying; and the structure of the chain
itself, are all peculiar; and scarcely less so is the medallion below.

[197]-- The church ends at the east with a large circular arch, which is
now closed, and has always been so since the memory of man; but probably,
at some former time, it led into a chancel or sanctuary.

There is a south transept, which terminates in a similar arch: the
arches of the nave, which are likewise circular, are each of them
surrounded with a double architrave of the zig-zag moulding: the capitals
to the pillars supporting these arches, Mr. Cotman considers as being
for the greater part of the best class of Norman sculpture.

He has selected for engraving those that are most rude: the others commonly exhibit broad
interlaced bands, foliage, and fruits.

For Andy was one of those mild-mannered men whose genius runs to riding horses which object
violently to being ridden; one of those lucky fellows who never seems to get his neck broken,
however much he may jeopardize it; and, moreover, he was that rare genius, who can make a "pretty"
ride where other broncho-fighters resemble nothing so much as a scarecrow in a cyclone. Andy
not only could ride--he could ride gracefully. And the reason for that, not many knew: Andy,
in the years before he wandered to the range, had danced, in spangled tights, upon the broad
rump of a big gray horse which galloped around a saw-dust ring with the regularity of movement
that suggested a machine, while a sober-clothed man in the center cracked a whip and yelped
commands. Andy had jumped through blazing hoops and over sagging bunting while he rode--and
he was just a trifle ashamed of the fact. Also--though it does not particularly matter--he
had, later in the performance, gone hurtling around the big tent dressed in the garb of an
ancient Roman and driving four deep-chested bays abreast. As has been explained, he never boasted
of his circus experience; though his days in spangled tights probably had much to do with the
inimitable grace of him in the saddle. The Happy Family felt to a man that Andy would win the
purse and add honor to the Flying U in the winning. They were enthusiastic over the prospect
and willing to bet all they had on the outcome.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Happy Family, together with the aliens who swelled the crew to round-up size, was foregathered
at the largest Flying U corral, watching a bunch of newly bought horses circle, with much snorting
and kicking up of dust, inside the fence. It was the interval between beef-and calf-roundups,
and the witchery of Indian Summer held the range-land in thrall.

Andy, sizing up the bunch and the brands, lighted upon a rangy blue roan that he knew--or thought
he knew, and the eyes of him brightened with desire. If he could get that roan in his string,
he told himself, he could go to sleep in the saddle on night-guard; for an easier horse to
ride he never had straddled. It was like sitting in grandma's pet rocking chair when that roan
loosened his muscles for a long, tireless gallop over the prairie sod, and as a stayer Andy
had never seen his equal. It was not his turn to choose, however, and he held his breath lest
the rope of another should settle over the slatey-black ears ahead of him.

Cal Emmett roped a plump little black and led him out, grinning satisfaction; from the white
saddle-marks back of the withers he knew him for a "broke" horse, and he certainly was pretty
to look at. Andy gave him but a fleeting glance.

Happy Jack spread his loop and climbed down from the fence, almost at Andy's elbow. It was
his turn to choose. "I betche that there blue roan over there is a good one," he remarked.
"I'm going to tackle him."

Andy took his cigarette from between his lips. "Yuh better hobble your stirrups, then," he
discouraged artfully. "I know that roan a heap better than you do."

"Aw, gwan!" Happy, nevertheless, hesitated. "He's got a kind eye in his head; yuh can always
go by a horse's eye."

"Can yuh?" Andy smiled indifferently. "Go after him, then. And say, Happy: if yuh ride that
blue roan for five successive minutes, I'll give yuh fifty dollars. I knew that hoss down on
the Musselshell; he's got a record that'd reach from here to Dry Lake and back." It was a bluff,
pure and simple, born of his covetousness, but it had the desired effect--or nearly so.

Happy fumbled his rope and eyed the roan. "Aw, I betche you're just lying," he hazarded; but,
like many another, when he did strike the truth he failed to recognize it. "I betche--"

"All right, rope him out and climb on, if yuh don't believe me." The tone of Andy was tinged
with injury. "There's fifty dollars--yes, by gracious, I'll give yuh a hundred dollars if yuh
ride him for five minutes straight."

A conversation of that character, carried on near the top of two full-lunged voices, never
fails in the range land to bring an audience of every male human within hearing. All other
conversations and interests were immediately suspended, and a dozen men trotted up to see what
it was all about. Andy remained roosting upon the top rail, his rope coiled loosely and dangling
from one arm while he smoked imperturbably.

"Oh, Happy was going to rope out a sure-enough bad one for his night hoss, and out uh the goodness
uh my heart, I put him wise to what he was going up against," he explained carelessly.

"He acts like he has some thoughts uh doubting my word, so I just offered him a hundred dollars
to ride him--that blue roan, over there next that crooked post. GET a reserved seat right in
front of the grand stand where all the big acts take PLACE;" he sung out suddenly, in the regulation
circus tone. "GET-a-seat-right-in-front-where-Happy-Jack- the-WILD-Man-rides-the-BUCKING-BRONCHO--Go
on, Happy. Don't keep the audience waiting. Aren't yuh going to earn that hundred dollars?"

Happy Jack turned half a shade redder than was natural. "Aw, gwan. I never said I was going
to do no broncho-busting ack. But I betche yuh never seen that roan before he was unloaded
in Dry Lake."

"What'll yuh bet I don't know that hoss from a yearling colt?" Andy challenged, and Happy Jack
walked away without replying, and cast his loop sullenly over the first horse he came to--which
was not the roan.

Chip, coming up to hear the last of it, turned and looked long at the horse in question; a
mild-mannered horse, standing by a crooked corral post and flicking his ears at the flies.
"Do you know that roan?" he asked Andy, in the tone which brings truthful answer. Andy had
one good point: he never lied except in an irresponsible mood of pure deviltry. For instance,
he never had lied seriously, to an employer.

"Sure, I know that hoss," he answered truthfully.

"Did you ever ride him?"

"No," Andy admitted, still truthfully. "I never rode him but once myself, but I worked right
with a Lazy 6 rep that had him in his string, down at the U up-and-down, two years ago. I know
the hoss, all right; but I did lie when I told Happy I knowed him from a colt. I spread it
on a little bit thick, there." He smiled engagingly down at Chip.

"And he's a bad one, is he?" Chip queried Over his shoulder, just as he was about to walk away.

"Well," Andy prevaricated--still clinging to the letter, if not to the spirit of truth. "He
ain't a hoss I'd like to see Happy Jack go up against. I ain't saying, though, that he can't
be rode. I don't say that about any hoss."

"Is he any worse than Glory, when Glory is feeling peevish?" Weary asked, when Chip was gone
and while the men still lingered. Andy, glancing to make sure that Chip was out of hearing,
threw away his cigarette and yielded to temptation. "Glory?" he snorted with a fine contempt.
"Why, Glory's--a--lamb beside that blue roan! Why, that hoss throwed Buckskin Jimmy clean out
of a corral--Did yuh ever see Buckskin Jimmy ride? Well, say, yuh missed a pretty sight, then;
Jimmy's a sure-enough rider. About the only animal he ever failed to connect with for keeps,
is that same cow-backed hoss yuh see over there. Happy says he's got a kind eye in his head--"
Andy stopped and laughed till they all laughed with him. "By gracious, Happy ought to step
up on him, once, and see how kind he is!" He laughed again until Happy, across the corral saddling
the horse he had chosen, muttered profanely at the derision he knew was pointed at himself.

"Why, I've seen that hoss--" Andy Green, once fairly started in the fascinating path of romance,
invented details for the pure joy of creation. If he had written some of the tales he told,
and had sold the writing for many dollars, he would have been famous. Since he did not write
them for profit, but told them for fun, instead, he earned merely the reputation of being a
great liar. A significant mark of his genius lay in the fact that his inventions never failed
to convince; not till afterward did his audience doubt.

That is why the blue roan was not chosen in any of the strings, but was left always circling
in the corral after a loop had settled. That is why the Flying U boys looked at him askance
as they passed him by. That is why, when a certain Mr. Coleman, sent by the board of directors
to rake northern Montana for bad horses, looked with favor upon the blue roan when he came
to the Flying U ranch and heard the tale of his exploits as interpreted--I should say created--by
Andy Green.

"We've got to have him," he declared enthusiastically. "If he's as bad as all that, he'll be
the star performer at the contest, and make that two-hundred-dollar plum a hard one to pick.
Some of these gay boys have entered with the erroneous idea that that same plum is hanging
loose, and all they've got to do is lean up against the tree and it'll drop in their mouths.
We've got to have that roan. I'll pay you a good price for him, Whitmore, if you won't let
him go any other way. We've got a reporter up there that can do him up brown in a special article,
and people will come in bunches to see a horse with that kind of a pedigree. Is it Green, here,
that knows the horse and what he'll do? You're sure of him, are you, Green?"

Andy took time to roll a cigarette. He had not expected any such development as this, and he
needed to think of the best way out. All he had wanted or intended was to discourage the others
from claiming the blue roan; he wanted him in his own string. Afterwards, when they had pestered
him about the roan's record, he admitted to himself that he had, maybe, overshot the mark and
told it a bit too scarey, and too convincingly. Under the spell of fancy he had done more than
make the roan unpopular as a roundup horse; he had made him a celebrity in the way of outlaw
horses. And they wanted him in the rough-riding contest! Andy, perhaps, had never before been
placed in just such a position.

"Are you sure of what the horse will do?" Mr. Coleman repeated, seeing that Andy was taking
a long time to reply.

Andy licked his cigarette, twisted an end and leaned backward while he felt in his pocket for
a match. From the look of his face you never could have told how very uncomfortable he felt
"Naw," he drawled. "I ain't never sure of what any hoss will do. I've had too much dealings
with 'em for any uh that brand uh foolishness." He lighted the cigarette as if that were the
only matter in which he took any real interest, though he was thinking fast.

Mr. Coleman looked nonplussed. "But I thought--you said--"

"What I said," Andy retorted evenly, "hit the blue roan two years ago; maybe he's reformed
since then; I dunno. Nobody's rode him, here." He could not resist a sidelong glance at Happy
Jack. "There was some talk of it, but it never come to a head."

"Yuh offered me a hundred dollars--" Happy Jack began accusingly.

"And yuh never made no move to earn it, that I know of. By gracious, yuh all seem to think
I ought to mind-read that hoss! I ain't seen him for two years. Maybe so, he's a real wolf
yet; maybe so, he's a sheep." He threw out both his hands to point the end of the argument--so
far as he was concerned--stuck them deep into his trousers' pockets and walked away before
he could be betrayed into deeper deceit. It did seem to him rather hard that, merely because
he had wanted the roan badly enough to--er--exercise a little diplomacy in order to get him,
they should keep harping on the subject like that. And to have Coleman making medicine to get
the roan into that contest was, to say the least, sickening. Andy's private belief was that
a twelve-year-old girl could go round up the milk-cows on that horse. He had never known him
to make a crooked move, and he had ridden beside him all one summer and had seen him in all
places and under all possible conditions. He was a dandy cow-horse, and dead gentle; all this
talk made him tired. Andy had forgotten that he himself had started the talk.

Coleman went often to the corral when the horses were in, and looked at the blue roan. Later
he rode on to other ranches where he had heard were bad horses, and left the roan for further
consideration. When he was gone, Andy breathed freer and put his mind to the coming contest
and the things he meant to do with the purse and with the other contestants.

"That Diamond G twister is going t' ride," Happy Jack announced, one day when he came from
town. "Some uh the boys was in town and they said so. He can ride, too. I betche Andy don't
have no picnic gitting the purse away from that feller. And Coleman's got that sorrel outlaw
uh the HS. I betche Andy'll have to pull leather on that one." This was, of course, treason
pure and simple; but Happy Jack's prophecies were never taken seriously.

Andy simply grinned at him. "Put your money on the Diamond G twister," he advised calmly. "I
know him--he's a good rider, too. His name's Billy Roberts. Uh course, I aim to beat him to
it, but Happy never does like to have a sure-thing. He wants something to hang his jaw down
over. Put your money on Billy and watch it fade away, Happy."

"Aw, gwan. I betche that there sorrel--"

"I rode that there sorrel once, and combed his forelock with both spurs alternate," Andy lied
boldly. "He's pickings. Take him back and bring me a real hoss."

Happy Jack wavered. "Well, I betche yuh don't pull down that money," he predicted vaguely.
"I betche yuh git throwed, or something. It don't do to be too blame sure uh nothing."

Whereat Andy laughed derisively and went away whistling. "I wish I was as sure uh living till
I was a thousand years old, and able to ride nine months out of every year of 'em," he called
back to Happy. Then he took up the tune where he had left off.

For the days were still crisp at both ends and languorous in the middle, and wind and grasses
hushed and listened for the coming of winter. And because of these things, and his youth and
his health, the heart of Andy Green was light in his chest and trouble stood afar off with
its face turned from him.

It was but three days to the opening of the fair when Coleman, returning that way from his
search for bad horses, clattered, with his gleanings and three or four men to help drive them,
down the grade to the Flying U. And in the Flying U coulee, just across the creek from the
corrals, still rested the roundup tents for a space. For the shipping was over early and work
was not urgent, and Chip and the Old Man, in their enthusiasm for the rough-riding contest
and the entry of their own man, had decided to take the wagons and crew entire to Great Falls
and camp throughout the four days of the fair. The boys all wanted to go, anyway, as did everybody
else, so that nothing could be done till it was over. It was a novel idea, and it tickled the
humor of the Happy Family.

The "rough string," as the bad horses were called, was corralled, and the men made merry with
the roundup crew. Diamond G men they were, loudly proclaiming their faith in Billy Roberts,
and offering bets already against Andy, who listened undisturbed and had very little to say.
The Happy Family had faith in him, and that was enough. If everybody, he told them, believed
that he would win, where would be the fun of riding and showing them?

It was after their early supper that Coleman came down to camp at the heels of Chip and the
Old Man. Straightway he sought out Andy like a man who has something on his mind; though Andy
did not in the least know what it was, he recognized the indefinable symptoms and braced himself
mentally, half suspecting that it was something about that blue roan again. He was getting
a little bit tired of the blue roan--enough so that, though he had chosen him for his string,
he had not yet put saddle to his back, but waited until the roundup started out once more,
when he would ride him in his turn.

It was the blue roan, without doubt. Coleman came to a stop directly in front of Andy, and
as directly came to the point.

"Look here, Green," he began. "I'm shy on horses for that contest, and Whitmore and Bennett
say I can have that roan you've got in your string. If he's as bad as you claim, I certainly
must have him. But you seem to have some doubts of what he'll do, and I'd like to see him ridden
once. Your shingle is out as a broncho-peeler. Will you ride him this evening, so I can size
him up for that contest?"

Andy glanced up under his eyebrows, and then sidelong at the crowd. Every man within hearing
was paying strict attention, and was eyeing him expectantly; for broncho-fighting is a spectacle
that never palls.

"Well, I can ride him, if yuh say so," Andy made cautious answer, "but I won't gamble he's
a bad hoss now--that is, bad enough to take to the Falls. Yuh don't want to expect--"

"Oh, I don't expect anything--only I want to see him ridden once. Come on, no time like the
present. If he's bad, you'll have to ride him at the fair, anyhow, and a little practice won't
hurt you; and if he isn't, I want to know it for sure."

"It's a go with me," Andy said indifferently, though he secretly felt much relief. The roan
would go off like a pet dog, and he could pretend to be somewhat surprised, and declare that
he had reformed. Bad horses do reform, sometimes, as Andy and every other man in the crowd
knew. Then there would be no more foolish speculation about the cayuse, and Andy could keep
him in peace and have a mighty good cow-pony, as he had schemed. He smoked a cigarette while
Chip was having the horses corralled, and then led the way willingly, with twenty-five men
following expectantly at his heels. Unlike Andy, they fully expected an impromptu exhibition
of fancy riding. Not all of them had seen Andy atop a bad horse, and the Diamond G men, in
particular, were eager to witness a sample of his skill.

The blue roan submitted to the rope, and there was nothing spectacular in the saddling. Andy
kept his cigarette between his lips and smiled to himself when he saw the saddle bunch hazed
out through the gate and the big corral left empty of every animal but the blue roan, as was
customary when a man tackled a horse with the record which he had given the poor beast. Also,
the sight of twenty-five men roosting high, their boot-heels hooked under a corral rail to
steady them, their faces writ large with expectancy, amused him inwardly. He pictured their
disappointment when the roan trotted around the corral once or twice at his bidding, and smiled
again.

"If you can't top him, Green, we'll send for Billy Roberts. He'll take off the rough edge and
gentle him down for yuh," taunted a Diamond G man.

"Don't get excited till the show starts," Andy advised, holding the cigarette in his fingers
while he emptied his lungs of smoke. Just to make a pretence of caution, he shook the saddle
tentatively by the horn, and wished the roan would make a little show of resistance, instead
of standing there like an old cow, lacking only the cud, as he complained to himself, to make
the resemblance complete. The roan, however, did lay back an ear when Andy, the cigarette again
in his lips, put his toe in the stirrup.

"Go after it, you weatherbeaten old saw-buck," he yelled, just to make the play strong, before
he was fairly in the saddle.

Then it was that the Happy Family, heart and soul and pocket all for Andy Green and his wonderful
skill in the saddle; with many dollars backing their belief in him and with voices ever ready
to sing his praises; with the golden light of early sunset all about them and the tang of coming
night-frost in the air, received a shock that made them turn white under their tan.

"Mama!" breathed Weary, in a horrified half-whisper.

And Slim, goggle-eyed beside him, blurted, "Well, by golly!" in a voice that carried across
the corral.

For Andy Green, tamer of wild ones (forsooth!) broncho-twister with a fame that not the boundary
of Chouteau County held, nor yet the counties beyond; Andy Green, erstwhile "André de Gréno,
champion bare-back rider of the Western Hemisphere," who had jumped through blazing hoops and
over sagging bunting while he rode, turned handsprings and done other public-drawing feats,
was prosaically, unequivocally "piled" at the fifth jump!

That he landed lightly on his feet, with the cigarette still between his lips, the roosting
twenty-five quite overlooked. They saw only the first jump, where Andy, riding loose and unguardedly,
went up on the blue withers. The second, third and fourth jumps were not far enough apart to
be seen and judged separately; as well may one hope to decide whether a whirling wheel had
straight or crooked spokes. The fifth jump, however, was a masterpiece of rapid-fire contortion,
and it was important because it left Andy on the ground, gazing, with an extremely grieved
expression, at the uninterrupted convolutions of the "dandy little cow-hoss."

The blue roan never stopped so much as to look back. He was busy--exceedingly busy. He was
one of those perverted brutes which buck and bawl and so keep themselves wrought up to a high
pitch--literally and figuratively. He set himself seriously to throw Andy's saddle over his
head, and he was not a horse which easily accepts defeat. Andy walked around in the middle
of the corral, quite aimlessly, and watched the roan contort. He could not understand in the
least, and his amazement overshadowed, for the moment, the fact that he had been thrown and
that in public and before men of the Diamond G.

Then it was that the men of the Diamond G yelled shrill words of ironical sympathy. Then it
was that the Happy Family looked at one another in shamed silence, and to the taunts of the
Diamond Gs made no reply. It had never occurred to them that such a thing could happen. Had
they not seen Andy ride, easily and often? Had they not heard from Pink how Andy had performed
that difficult feat at the Rocking R--the feat of throwing his horse flat in the middle of
a jump? They waited until the roan, leaving the big corral looking, in the fast deepening twilight,
like a fresh-ploughed field, stopped dejectedly and stood with his nose against the closed
gate, and then climbed slowly down from the top rail of the corral, still silent with the silence
more eloquent than speech in any known language.

Over by the gate, Andy was yanking savagely at the latigo; and he, also, had never a word to
say. He was still wondering how it had happened. He looked the roan over critically and shook
his head against the riddle; for he had known him to be a quiet, dependable, all-round good
horse, with no bad traits and an easy-going disposition that fretted at nothing. A high-strung,
nervous beast might, from rough usage and abuse, go "bad"; but the blue roan--they had called
him Pardner--had never showed the slightest symptom of nerves. Andy knew horses as he knew
himself. That a horse like Pardner should, in two years, become an evil-tempered past-master
in such devilish pitching as that, was past belief.

"I guess he'll do, all right," spoke Coleman at his elbow. "I've seen horses pitch, and I will
say that he's got some specialties that are worth exhibiting." Then, as a polite way of letting
Andy down easy, he added, "I don't wonder you couldn't connect."

"Connect--hell!" It was Andy's first realization of what his failure meant to the others. He
left off wondering about the roan, and faced the fact that he had been thrown, fair and square,
and that before an audience of twenty-five pairs of eyes which had seen rough riding before,
and which had expected of him something better than they were accustomed to seeing.

"I reckon Billy Roberts will have to work on that cayuse a while," fleered a Diamond G man,
coming over to them. "He'll gentle him down so that anybody--even Green, can ride him!"

Andy faced him hotly, opened his mouth for sharp reply, and closed it. He had been "piled."
Nothing that he could say might alter that fact, nor explanations lighten the disgrace. He
turned and went out the gate, carrying his saddle and bridle with him.

"Aw--and you was goin' t' ride in that contest!" wailed Happy Jack recriminatingly. "And I've
got forty dollars up on yuh!"

"Shut up!" snapped Pink in his ear, heart-broken but loyal to the last. "Yuh going to blat
around and let them Diamond Gs give yuh the laugh? Hunt up something you can use for a backbone
till they get out uh camp, for Heaven's sake! Andy's our man. So help me, Josephine, if anybody
goes rubbing it in where I can hear, he'll get his face punched!"

"Say, I guess we ain't let down on our faces, or anything!" sighed Cal Emmett, coming up to
them. "I thought Andy could ride! Gee whiz, but it was fierce! Why, Happy could make a better
ride than that!"

"By golly, I want t' have a talk with that there broncho-tamer," Slim growled behind them.
"I got money on him. Is he goin t' ride for that purse? 'Cause if he is, I ain't going a foot."

These and other remarks of a like nature made up the clamor that surged in the ears of Andy
as he went, disgraced and alone, up to the deserted bunk-house where he need not hear what
they were saying. He knew, deep in his heart, that he could ride that horse. He had been thrown
because of his own unpardonable carelessness--a carelessness which he could not well explain
to the others. He himself had given the roan an evil reputation; a reputation that, so far
as he knew, was libel pure and simple. To explain now that he was thrown simply because he
never dreamed the horse would pitch, and so was taken unaware, would simply be to insult their
intelligence. He was not supposed, after mounting a horse like that, to be taken unaware. He
might, of course, say that he had lied all along--but he had no intention of making any confession
like that. Even if he did, they would not believe him. Altogether, it was a very unhappy young
man who slammed his spurs into a far corner and kicked viciously a box he had stumbled over
in the dusk.

"Trying to bust the furniture?" it was the voice of the Old Man at the door.

"By gracious, it seems I can't bust bronks no more," Andy made rueful reply. "I reckon I'll
just about have to bust the furniture or nothing."

The Old Man chuckled and came inside, sought the box Andy had kicked, and sat down upon it.
Through the open door came the jumble of many voices upraised in fruitless argument, and with
it the chill of frost. The Old Man fumbled for his pipe, filled it and scratched a match sharply
on the box. In the flare of it Andy watched his kind old face with its fringe of grayish hair
and its deep-graven lines of whimsical humor.

"Doggone them boys, they ain't got the stayin' qualities I give 'em credit for having," he
remarked, holding up the match and looking across at Andy, humped disconsolately in the shadows.
"Them Diamond G men has just about got 'em on the run, right now. Yuh couldn't get a hundred-t'-one
bet, down there."

Andy merely grunted.

"Say," asked the Old Man suddenly. "Didn't yuh kinda mistake that blue roan for his twin brother,
Pardner? This here cayuse is called Weaver. I tried t' get hold of t'other one, but doggone
'em, they wouldn't loosen up. Pardner wasn't for sale at no price, but they talked me into
buying the Weaver; they claimed he's just about as good a horse, once he's tamed down some--and
I thought, seein' I've got some real tamers on my pay-roll, I'd take a chance on him. I thought
yuh knew the horse--the way yuh read up his pedigree--till I seen yuh mount him. Why, doggone
it, yuh straddled him like yuh was just climbing a fence! Maybe yuh know your own business
best--but didn't yuh kinda mistake him for Pardner? They're as near alike as two bullets run
in the same mold--as far as looks go."

Andy got up and went to the door, and stood looking down the dusk-muffled hill to the white
blotch which was the camp; listened to the jumble of voices still upraised in fruitless argument,
and turned to the Old Man.

"By gracious, that accounts for a whole lot," he said ambiguously.

II

"I don't see," said Cal Emmett crossly, "what's the use uh this whole outfit trailing up to
that contest. If I was Chip, I'd call the deal off and start gathering calves. It ain't as
if we had a man to ride for that belt and purse. Ain't your leg well enough to tackle it, Pink?"

"No," Pink answered shortly, "it ain't."

"Riding the rough bunch they've rounded up for that contest ain't going to be any picnic,"
Weary defended his chum. "Cadwolloper would need two good legs to go up against that deal."

"I wish Irish was here," Pink gloomed. "I'd be willing to back him; all right. But it's too
late now; he couldn't enter if he was here."

A voice behind them spoke challengingly. "I don't believe it would be etiquette for one outfit
to enter two peelers. One's enough, ain't it?"

The Happy Family turned coldly upon the speaker. It was Slim who answered for them all. "I
dunno as this outfit has got any peeler in that contest. By golly, it don't look like it since
las' night!"

Weary was gentle, as always, but he was firm. "We kinda thought you'd want to withdraw," he added.

Andy Green, tamer of wild ones, turned and eyed Weary curiously. One might guess, from telltale
eyes and mouth, that his calmness did not go very deep. "I don't recollect mentioning that
I was busy penning any letter uh withdrawal," he said. "I got my sights raised to that purse
and that belt. I don't recollect saying anything about lowering 'em."

"Aw, gwan. I guess I'll try for that purse, too! I betche I got as good a show as--"

"Sure. Help yourself, it don't cost nothing. I don't doubt but what you'd make a real pretty
ride, Happy." Andy's tone was deceitfully hearty. He did not sound in the least as if he would
like to choke Happy Jack, though that was his secret longing.

"Aw, gwan. I betche I could make as purty a ride as we've saw--lately." Happy Jack did not
quite like to make the thing too personal, for fear of what might happen after.

"Yuh mean last night, don't yuh?" purred Andy.

"Well, by golly, I wish you'd tell us what yuh done it for!" Slim cut in disgustedly. "It was
nacherlay supposed you could ride; we got money up on yuh! And then, by golly, to go and make
a fluke like that before them Diamond G men--to go and let that blue roan pile yuh up b'fore
he'd got rightly started t' pitch--If yuh'd stayed with him till he got t' swappin' ends there,
it wouldn't uh looked quite so bad. But t' go and git throwed down right in the start--By golly!"
Slim faced Andy accusingly. "B'fore them Diamond G men--and I've got money up, by golly!"

"Yuh ain't lost any money yet, have yuh?" Andy inquired patiently. What Andy felt like doing
was to "wade into the bunch"; reason, however, told him that he had it coming from them, and
to take his medicine, since he could not well explain just how it had happened. He could not
in reason wonder that the faith of the Happy Family was shattered and that they mourned as
lost the money they had already rashly wagered on the outcome of the contest. The very completeness
of their faith in him, their very loyalty, seemed to them their undoing, for to them the case
was plain enough. If Andy could not ride the blue roan in their own corral, how was he to ride
that same blue roan in Great Falls? Or, if he could ride him, how could any sane man hope that
he could win the purse and the belt under the stringent rules of the contest, where "riding
on the spurs," "pulling leather" and a dozen other things were barred? So Andy, under the sting
of their innuendoes and blunt reproaches, was so patient as to seem to them cowed.

"No, I ain't lost any yet, but by golly, I can see it fixin' to fly," Slim retorted heavily.

Andy looked around at the others, and smiled as sarcastically as was possible considering the
mood he was in. "It sure does amuse me," he observed, "to see growed men cryin' before they're
hurt! By gracious, I expect t' make a stake out uh that fall! I can get long odds from them
Diamond Gs, and from anybody they get a chance to talk to. I'm kinda planning," he lied boldly,
"to winter in an orange grove and listen at the birds singing, after I'm through with the deal."

"I reckon yuh can count on hearing the birds sing, all right," Pink snapped back. "It'll be
tra-la-la for yours, if last night's a fair sample uh what yuh expect to do with the blue roan."
Pink walked abruptly away, looking very much like a sulky cherub.

"I s'pose yuh're aiming to give us the impression that you're going to ride, just the same,"
said Cal Emmett.

"I sure am," came brief reply. Andy was beginning to lose his temper. He had expected that
the Happy Family would "throw it into him," to a certain extent, and he had schooled himself
to take their drubbing. What he had not expected was their unfriendly attitude, which went
beyond mere disappointment and made his offence--if it could be called that--more serious than
the occasion would seem to warrant. Perhaps Jack Bates unwittingly made plain the situation
when he remarked:

"I hate to turn down one of our bunch; we've kinda got in the habit uh hanging together and
backing each other's play, regardless. But darn it, we ain't millionaires, none of us--and
gambling, it is a sin. I've got enough up already to keep me broke for six months if I lose,
and the rest are in about the same fix. I ain't raising no long howl, Andy, but you can see
yourself where we're kinda bashful about sinking any more on yuh than what we have. Maybe you
can ride; I've heard yuh can, and I've seen yuh make some fair rides, myself. But yuh sure
fell down hard last night, and my faith in yuh got a jolt that fair broke its back. If yuh
done it deliberate, for reasons we don't know, for Heaven's sake say so, and we'll take your
word for it and forget your rep for lying. On the dead, Andy, did yuh fall off deliberate?"

Andy bit his lip. His conscience had a theory of its own about truth-telling, and permitted
him to make strange assertions at times. Still, there were limitations. The Happy Family was
waiting for his answer, and he knew instinctively that they would believe him now. For a moment,
temptation held him. Then he squared his shoulders and spoke truly.

"On the dead, I hit the ground unexpected and inadvertant. I--"

"If that's the case, then the farther yuh keep away from that contest the better--if yuh ask
me." Jack turned on his heel and followed Pink.

Andy stared after him moodily, then glanced at the rest. With one accord they avoided meeting
his gaze. "Damn a bunch uh quitters!" he flared hotly, and left them, to hunt up the Old Man
and Chip--one or both, it did not matter to him.

Pink it was who observed the Old Man writing a check for Andy. He took it that Andy had called
for his time, and when Andy rolled his bed and stowed it away in the bunk-house, saddled a
horse and rode up the grade toward town, the whole outfit knew for a certainty that Andy had quit.

Before many hours had passed they, too, saddled and rode away, with the wagons and the cavvy
following after--and they were headed for Great Falls and the fair there to be held; or, more
particularly, the rough-riding contest to which they had looked forward eagerly and with much
enthusiasm, and which they were now approaching gloomily and in deep humiliation. Truly, it
would be hard to find a situation more galling to the pride of the Happy Family.

But Andy Green had not called for his time, and he had no intention of quitting; for Andy was
also suffering from that uncomfortable malady which we call hurt pride, and for it he knew
but one remedy--a remedy which he was impatient to apply. Because of the unfriendly attitude
of the Happy Family, Andy had refused to take them into his confidence, or to ride with them
to the fair. Instead, he had drawn what money was still placed to his credit on the pay-roll,
had taken a horse and his riding outfit and gone away to Dry Lake, where he intended to take
the train for Great Falls.

In Dry Lake, however, he found that the story of his downfall had preceded him, thanks to the
exultant men of the Diamond G, and that the tale had not shrunk in the telling. Dry Lake jeered
him as openly as it dared, and part of it--that part which had believed in him--was quite as
unfriendly as was the Happy Family. To a man they took it for granted that he would withdraw
from the contest, and they were not careful to conceal what they thought. Andy found himself
rather left alone, and he experienced more than once the unpleasant sensation of having conversation
suddenly lag when he came near, and of seeing groups of men dissolve awkwardly at his approach.
Andy, before he had been in town an hour, was in a mood to do violence.

For that reason he kept his plans rigidly to himself. When someone asked him if he had quit
the outfit, he had returned gruffly that the Flying U was not the only cow-outfit in the country,
and let the questioner interpret it as he liked. When the train that had its nose pointed to
the southwest slid into town, Andy did not step on, as had been his intention. He remained
idly leaning over the bar in Rusty Brown's place, and gave no heed. Later, when the eastbound
came schreeching through at midnight, it found Andy Green on the platform with his saddle,
bridle, chaps, quirt and spurs neatly sacked, and with a ticket for Havre in his pocket. So
the wise ones said that they knew Andy would never have the nerve to show up at the fair, after
the fluke he had made at the Flying U ranch, and those whose pockets were not interested considered
it a very good joke.

At Havre, Andy bought another ticket and checked the sack which held his riding outfit; the
ticket had Great Falls printed on it in bold, black lettering. So that he was twelve hours
late in reaching his original destination, and to avoid unwelcome discovery and comment he
took the sleeper and immediately ordered his berth made up, that he might pass through Dry
Lake behind the sheltering folds of the berth curtains. Not that there was need of this elaborate
subterfuge. He was simply mad clear through and did not want to see or hear the voice of any
man he knew. Besides, the days when he had danced in spangled tights upon the broad, gray rump
of a galloping horse while a sober-clothed man in the middle of the ring cracked a whip and
yelped commands, had bred in him the unconscious love of a spectacular entry and a dramatic finish.

That is why he sought out the most obscure rooming house that gave any promise of decency and
comfort, and stayed off Central Avenue and away from its loitering groups of range dwellers
who might know him. That is why he hired a horse and rode early and alone to the fair grounds
on the opening day, and avoided, by a roundabout trail a certain splotch of gray-white against
the brown of the prairie, which he knew instinctively to be the camp of the Flying U outfit,
which had made good time and were located to their liking near the river. Andy felt a tightening
of the chest when he saw the familiar tents, and kicked his hired horse ill-naturedly in the
ribs. It was all so different from what he had thought it would be.

In those last two weeks, he had pictured himself riding vaingloriously through town on his
best horse, with a new Navajo saddle-blanket making a dab of bright color, and a new Stetson
hat dimpled picturesquely as to crown and tilted rakishly over one eye, and with his silver-mounted
spurs catching the light; around him would ride the Happy Family, also in gala attire and mounted
upon the best horses in their several strings. The horses would not approve of the street-cars,
and would circle and back--and it was quite possible, even probable, that there would be some
pitching and some pretty riding before the gaping populace which did not often get a chance
to view the real thing. People would stop and gaze while they went clattering by, and he, Andy
Green, would be pointed out by the knowing ones as a fellow that was going to ride in the contest
and that stood a good chance of winning. For Andy was but human, that he dreamed of these things;
besides, does not the jumping through blazing hoops and over sagging bunting while one rides,
whet insiduously one's appetite for the plaudits of the crowd?

The reality was different. He was in Great Falls, but he had not ridden vaingloriously down
Central Avenue surrounded by the Happy Family, and watched by the gaping populace. Instead,
he had chosen a side street and he had ridden alone, and no one had seemed to know or care
who he might be. His horse had not backed, wild-eyed, before an approaching car, and he had
not done any pretty riding. Instead, his horse had scarce turned an eye toward the jangling
bell when he crossed the track perilously close to the car, and he had gone "side-wheeling"
decorously down the street--and Andy hated a pacing horse. The Happy Family was in town, but
he did not know where. Andy kicked his horse into a gallop and swore bitterly that he did not
care. He did not suppose that they gave him a thought, other than those impelled by their jeopardized
pockets. And that, he assured himself pessimistically, is friendship!

He tied the hired horse to the fence and went away to the stables and fraternized with a hump-backed
jockey who knew a few things himself about riding and was inclined to talk unprofessionally.
It was not at all as Andy had pictured the opening day, but he got through the time somehow
until the crowd gathered and the racing began. Then he showed himself in the crowd of "peelers"
and their friends, as unconcernedly as he might; and as unobtrusively. The Happy Family, he
observed, was not there, though he met Chip face to face and had a short talk with him. Chip
was the only one, aside from the Old Man, who really understood. Billy Roberts was there, and
he greeted Andy commiseratingly, as one speaks to the sick or to one in mourning; the tone
made Andy grind his teeth, though he knew in his heart that Billy Roberts wished him well--up
to the point of losing the contest to him, which was beyond human nature. Billy Roberts was
a rider and knew--or thought he knew--just how "sore" Andy must be feeling. Also, in the kindness
of his heart he tried blunderingly to hide his knowledge.

"Going up against the rough ones?" he queried with careful carelessness, in the hope of concealing
that he had heard the tale of Andy's disgrace.

"I sure am," Andy returned laconically, with no attempt to conceal anything.

Billy Roberts opened his eyes wide, and his mouth a little before he recovered from his surprise.
"Well, good luck to yuh," he managed to say, "only so yuh don't beat me to it. I was kinda
hoping yuh was too bashful to get out and ride before all the ladies."

Andy, remembering his days in the sawdust ring, smiled queerly; but his heart warmed to Billy
Roberts amazingly.

They were leaning elbows on the fence below the grand stand, watching desultorily the endless
preparatory manoeuvres of three men astride the hind legs of three pacers in sulkies. "This
side-wheeling business gives me a pain," Billy remarked, as the pacers ambled by for the fourth
or fifth time. "I like caballos that don't take all day to wind 'em up before they go. I been
looking over our bunch. They's horses in that corral that are sure going to do things to us
twenty peelers!"

"By gracious, yes!" Andy was beginning to feel himself again. "That blue hoss--uh course yuh
heard how he got me, and heard it with trimmings--yuh may think he's a man-eater; but while
he's a bad hoss, all right, he ain't the one that'll get yuh. Yuh want t' watch out, Billy,
for that HS sorrel. He's plumb wicked. He's got a habit uh throwing himself backwards. They're
keeping it quiet, maybe--but I've seen him do it three times in one summer."

"All right--thanks. I didn't know that. But the blue roan--"

"The blue roan'll pitch and bawl and swap ends on yuh and raise hell all around, but he can
be rode. That festive bunch up in the reserve seats'll think it's awful, and that the HS sorrel
is a lady's hoss alongside him, but a real rider can wear him out. But that sorrel--when yuh
think yuh got him beat, Billy, is when yuh want to watch out!"

Billy turned his face away from a rolling dustcloud that came down the home stretch with the
pacers, and looked curiously at Andy. Twice he started to speak and did not finish. Then: "A
man can be a sure-enough rider, and get careless and let a horse pile him off him when he ain't
looking, just because he knows he can ride that horse," he said with a certain diffidence.

"By gracious, yes!" Andy assented emphatically. And that was the nearest they came to discussing
a delicate matter which was in the minds of both.

Andy was growing more at ease and feeling more optimistic every minute. Three men still believed
in him, which was much. Also, the crowd could not flurry him as it did some of the others who
were not accustomed to so great an audience; rather, it acted as a tonic and brought back the
poise, the easy self-confidence which had belonged to one André de Gréno, champion bareback
rider. So that, when the rough-riding began, Andy's nerves were placidly asleep.

At the corral in the infield, where the horses and men were foregathered, Andy met Slim and
Happy Jack; but beyond his curt "Hello" and an amazed "Well, by golly!" from Slim, no words
passed. Across the corral he glimpsed some of the others--Pink and Weary, and farther along,
Cal Emmett and Jack Bates; but they made no sign if they saw him, and he did not go near them.
He did not know when his turn would come to ride, and he had a horse to saddle at the command
of the powers that were. Coleman, the man who had collected the horses, almost ran over him.
He said "Hello, Green," and passed on, for his haste was great.

Horse after horse was saddled and led perforce out into the open of the infield; man after
man mounted, with more or less trouble, and rode to triumph or defeat. Billy Roberts was given
a white-eyed little bay, and did some great riding. The shouts and applause from the grand
stand rolled out to them in a great wave of sound. Billy mastered the brute and rode him back
to the corral white-faced and with beads of sweat standing thick on his forehead.

"It ain't going to be such damn' easy money--that two hundred," he confided pantingly to Andy,
who stood near. "The fellow that gets it will sure have to earn it."

Andy nodded and moved out where he could get a better view. Then Coleman came and informed
him hurriedly that he came next, and Andy went back to his place. The horse he was to ride
he had never seen before that day. He was a long-legged brown, with scanty mane and a wicked,
rolling eye. He looked capable of almost any deviltry, but Andy did not give much time to speculating
upon what he would try to do. He was still all eyes to the infield where his predecessor was
gyrating. Then a sudden jump loosened him so that he grabbed the horn--and it was all over
with that particular applicant, so far as the purse and the championship belt were concerned.
He was out of the contest, and presently he was also back at the corral, explaining volubly--and
uselessly--just how it came about. He appeared to have a very good reason for "pulling leather,"
but Andy was not listening and only thought absently that the fellow was a fool to make a talk
for himself.

Andy was clutching the stirrup and watching a chance to put his toe into it, and the tall brown
horse was circling backwards with occasional little side-jumps. When it was quite clear that
the horse did not mean to be mounted, Andy reached out his hand, got a rope from somebody--he
did not know who, though, as a matter of fact, it was Pink who gave it--and snared a front
foot; presently the brown was standing upon three legs instead of four, and the gaping populace
wondered how it was done, and craned necks to see. After that, though the horse still circled
backwards, Andy got the stirrup and put his toe in it and went up so easily that the ignorant
might think anybody could do it. He dropped the rope and saw that it was Pink who picked it up.

The brown at first did nothing at all. Then he gave a spring straight ahead and ran fifty yards
or so, stopped and began to pitch. Three jumps and he ran again; stopped and reared. It was
very pretty to look at, but Happy Jack could have ridden him, or Slim, or any other range rider.
In two minutes the brown was sulking, and it took severe spurring to bring him back to the
corral. Pitch he would not. The crowd applauded, but Andy felt cheated and looked as he felt.

Pink edged toward him, but Andy was not in the mood for reconciliation and kept out of his
way. Others of the Happy Family came near, at divers times and places, as if they would have
speech with him, but he thought he knew about what they would say, and so was careful not to
give them a chance. When the excitement was all over for that day he got his despised hired
horse and went back to town with Billy Roberts, because it was good to have a friend and because
they wanted to talk about the riding. Billy did not tell Andy, either, that he had had hard
work getting away from his own crowd; for Billy was kind-hearted and had heard a good deal,
because he had been talking with Happy Jack. His sympathy was not with the Happy Family, either.

On the second afternoon, such is effect of rigid winnowing, there were but nine men to ride.
The fellow who had grabbed the saddle horn, together with ten others, stood among the spectators
and made caustic remarks about the management, the horses, the nine who were left and the whole
business in general. Andy grinned a little and wondered if he would stand among them on the
morrow and make remarks. He was not worrying about it, though. He said hello to Weary, Pink
and Cal Emmett, and saddled a kicking, striking brute from up Sweetgrass way.

On this day the horses were wickeder, and one man came near getting his neck broken. As it
was, his collar-bone snapped and he was carried off the infield on a stretcher and hurried
to the hospital; which did not tend to make the other riders feel more cheerful. Andy noted
that it was the HS sorrel which did the mischief, and glanced meaningly across at Billy Roberts.

Then it was his turn with the striking, kicking gray, and he mounted and prepared for what
might come. The gray was an artist in his line, and pitched "high, wide and crooked" in the
most approved fashion. But Andy, being also an artist of a sort, rode easily and with a grace
that brought much hand-clapping from the crowd. Only the initiated reserved their praise till
further trial; for though the gray was not to say gentle, and though it took skill to ride
him, there were a dozen, probably twice as many, men in the crowd who could have done as well.

The Happy Family, drawn together from habit and because they could speak their minds more freely,
discussed Andy gravely among themselves. Betting was growing brisk, and if their faith had
not been so shaken they could have got long odds on Andy.

"I betche he don't win out," Happy Jack insisted with characteristic gloom. "Yuh wait till
he goes up agin that blue roan. They're savin' that roan till the las' day--and I betche Andy'll
git him. If he hangs on till the las' day." Happy Jack laughed ironically as he made the provision.

"Any you fellows got money yuh want to put up on this deal?" came the voice of Andy behind them.

They turned, a bit shamefaced, toward him.

"Aw, I betche--" began Happy.

"That's what I'm here for," cut in Andy. "What I've got goes up--saddle, spurs--all I've got.
You've done a lot uh mourning, now here's a chance to break even on me. Speak up."

The Happy Family hesitated.

"I guess I'll stay out," dimpled Pink. "I don't just savvy your play, Andy, and if I lose on
yuh--why, it won't be the first time I ever went broke."

"Well, by golly, I'll take a chance," bellowed Slim, whose voice was ever pitched to carry
long distances in a high wind. "I'll bet yuh fifty dollars yuh don't pull down that belt or
purse. By golly, there's two or three men here that can ride."

"There's only one that'll be the real star," smiled Andy with unashamed egotism. "Happy, how
rich do you want to get off me?"

Happy said a good deal and "betche" several things would happen--things utterly inconsistent
with one another. In the end, Andy pinned him down to twenty dollars against Andy's silver-mounted
spurs--which was almost a third more than the spurs were worth; but Andy had no sympathy for
Happy Jack and stuck to the price doggedly until Happy gave in.

Jack Bates advertised his lack of faith in Andy ten dollars worth, and Cal Emmett did the same.
Irish, coming in on the afternoon train and drifting instinctively to the vicinity of the Happy
Family, cursed them all impartially for a bunch of quitters, slapped Andy on the back and with
characteristic impetuosity offered a hundred dollars to anybody who dared take him up, that
Andy would win. And this after he had heard the tale of the blue roan and before they told
him about the two rides already made in the contest.

It is true that Happy Jack endeavored to expostulate, but Irish glared at him in a way to make
Happy squirm and stammer incoherently.

"I've heard all about it," Irish cut in, "and I don't have to hear any more. I know a rider
when I see one, and my money's on Andy from start to finish. You make me sick. Weary, have
you gone against our man?" The tone was a challenge in itself.

Weary grinned goodnaturedly. "I haven't pulled down any bets," he answered mildly, "and I haven't
put up my last cent and don't intend to. I'm an engaged young man." He shrugged his shoulders
to point the moral. "I sure do hope Andy'll win out," he added simply.

"Hope? Why, damn it, yuh know he'll win!" stormed Irish.

Men in their vicinity caught the belligerence of the tone and turned about, thinking there
was trouble, and the Happy Family subsided into quieter discussion. In the end Irish, discovering
that Andy had for the time being forsworn the shelter of the Flying U tents, stuck by him loyally
and forswore it also, and went with Andy to share the doubtful comfort of the obscure lodging
house. For Irish was all or nothing, and to find the Happy Family publicly opposed--or at most
neutral--to a Flying U man in a rough-riding contest like this, incensed him much.

The Happy Family began to feel less sure of themselves and a bit ashamed--though of just what,
they were not quite clear, for surely they had reason a-plenty for doubting Andy Green.

The last day found the Happy Family divided against itself and growing a bit venomous in its
remarks. Andy had not as yet done anything remarkable, except perhaps keep in the running when
the twenty had been culled to three: Billy Roberts, Andy and a man from the Yellowstone Valley,
called Gopher by his acquaintances. Accident and untoward circumstances had thrown out the
others--good riders all of them, or they would not have been there. Happy Jack proclaimed loudly
in camp that Andy was still in because Andy had not had a real bad horse. "I seen Coleman looking
over the blue roan and talkin' to them guys that runs things; they're goin' t' put Andy on
him t-day, I betche--and we seen how he can ride him! Piled in a heap--"

"Not exactly," Pink interrupted. "I seem to remember Andy lighting on his feet; and he was
smoking when he started, and smoking when he quit. It didn't strike me at the time, but that's
kinda funny, don't yuh think?"

So Pink went back to his first faith, and the Happy Family straightway became loud and excited
over the question of whether Andy did really light upon his feet, or jumped up immediately,
and whether he kept his cigarette or made a new one. The discussion carried them to the fair
grounds and remained just where it started, so far as any amicable decision was concerned.

Now this is a fair and true report of that last day's riding: There being but the three riders,
and the excitement growing apace, the rough-riding was put first on the program and men struggled
for the best places and the best view of the infield.

In the beginning, Andy drew the HS sorrel and Billy Roberts the blue roan. Gopher, the Yellowstone
man, got a sulky little buckskin that refused to add one whit to the excitement, so that he
was put back and another one brought. This other proved to be the wicked-eyed brown which Andy
had ridden the first day. Only this day the brown was in different mood and pitched so viciously
that Gopher lost control in the rapid-fire changes, and rode wild, being all over the horse
and everywhere but on the ground. He did not pull leather, however though he was accused by
some of riding on his spurs at the last. At any rate, Andy and Billy Roberts felt that the
belt lay between themselves, and admitted as much privately.

"You've sure got to ride like a wild man if yuh beat me to it," grinned Billy.

"By gracious, I'm after it like a wolf myself," Andy retorted. "Yuh know how I'm fixed--I've
just got to have it, Bill."

Billy, going out to ride, made no reply except a meaning head-shake. And Billy certainly rode,
that day; for the blue roan did his worst and his best. To describe the performance, however,
would be to invent many words to supply a dearth in the language. Billy rode the blue roan
back to the corral, and he had broken none of the stringent rules of the contest--which is
saying much for Billy.

When Andy went out--shot out, one might say--on the sorrel, the Happy Family considered him
already beaten because of the remarkable riding of Billy. When the sorrel began pitching the
gaping populace, grown wise overnight in these things, said that he was e-a-s-y--which he was
not. He fought as some men fight; with brain as well as muscle, cunningly, malignantly. He
would stop and stand perfectly still for a few seconds, and then spring viciously whichever
way would seem to him most unexpected; for he was not bucking from fright as most horses do
but because he hated men and would do them injury if he could.

When the crowd thought him worn out, so that he stood with head drooping all that Andy would
permit, then it was that Andy grew most wary. It was as he had said. Of a sudden, straight
into the air leaped the sorrel, reared and went backward in a flash of red. But as he went,
his rider slipped to one side, and when he struck the ground Andy struck also--on his feet.
"Get up, darn yuh," he muttered, and when the sorrel gathered himself together and jumped up,
he was much surprised to find Andy in the saddle again.

Then it was that the HS sorrel went mad and pitched as he had never, even when building his
record, pitched before. Then it was that Andy, his own temper a bit roughened by the murderous
brute, rode as he had not ridden for many a day; down in the saddle, his quirt keeping time
with the jumps. He was just settling himself to "drag it out of him proper," when one of the
judges, on horseback in the field, threw up his hand.

"Get off!" he shouted, galloping closer. "That horse's got to be rode again to-day. You've
done enough this time."

So Andy, watching his chance, jumped off when the sorrel stopped for a few seconds of breath,
and left him unconquered and more murderous than ever. A man with a megaphone was announcing
that the contest was yet undecided, and that Green and Roberts would ride again later in the
afternoon.

Andy passed the Happy Family head in air, stopped a minute to exchange facetious threats with
Billy Roberts, and went with Irish to roost upon the fence near the judge's stand to watch
the races. The Happy Family kept sedulously away from the two and tried to grow interested
in other things until the final test.

It came, when Billy Roberts, again first, mounted the HS sorrel, still in murderous mood and
but little the worse for his previous battle. What he had done with Andy he repeated, and added
much venom to the repetition. Again he threw himself backward, which Billy expected and so
got clear and remounted as he scrambled up. After that, the sorrel simply pitched so hard and
so fast that he loosened Billy a bit; not much, but enough to "show daylight" between rider
and saddle for two or three high, crooked jumps. One stirrup he lost, rode a jump without it
and by good luck regained it as it flew against his foot. It was great riding, and a gratifying
roar of applause swept out to him when it was over.

Andy, saddling the blue roan, drew a long breath. This one ride would tell the tale, and he
was human enough to feel a nervous strain such as had not before assailed him. It was so close,
now! and it might soon be so far. A bit of bad luck such as may come to any man, however great
his skill, and the belt would go to Billy. But not for long could doubt or questioning hold
Andy Green. He led the Weaver out himself, and instinctively he felt that the horse remembered
him and would try all that was in him. Also, he was somehow convinced that the blue roan held
much in reserve, and that it would be a great fight between them for mastery.

When he gathered up the reins, the roan eyed him wickedly sidelong and tightened his muscles,
as it were, for the struggle. Andy turned the stirrup, put in his toe, and went up in a flash,
warned by something in the blue roan's watchful eye. Like a flash the blue roan also went up--but
Andy had been a fraction of a second quicker. There was a squeal that carried to the grand
stand as the Weaver, wild-eyed and with red flaring nostrils, pounded the wind-baked sod with
high, bone-racking jumps; changed and took to "weaving" till one wondered how he kept his footing--more
particularly, how Andy contrived to sit there, loose-reined, firm-seated, riding easily. The
roan, tiring of that, began "swapping ends" furiously and so fast one could scarce follow his
jumps. Andy, with a whoop of pure defiance, yanked off his hat and beat the roan over the head
with it, yelling taunting words and contemptuous; and for every shout the Weaver bucked harder
and higher, bawling like a new-weaned calf.

Men who knew good riding when they saw it went silly and yelled and yelled. Those who did not
know anything about it caught the infection and roared. The judges galloped about, backing
away from the living whirlwind and yelling with the rest. Came a lull when the roan stood still
because he lacked breath to continue, and the judges shouted an uneven chorus.

"Get down--the belt's yours"--or words to that effect. It was unofficial, that verdict, but
it was unanimous and voiced with enthusiasm.

Andy turned his head and smiled acknowledgment. "All right--but wait till I tame this hoss
proper! Him and I've got a point to settle!" He dug in his spurs and again the battle raged,
and again the crowd, not having heard the unofficial decision, howled and yelled approval of
the spectacle.

Not till the roan gave up completely and owned obedience to rein and voiced command, did Andy
take further thought of the reward. He satisfied himself beyond doubt that he was master and
that the Weaver recognized him as such. He wheeled and turned, "cutting out" an imaginary animal
from an imaginary herd; he loped and he walked, stopped dead still in two jumps and started
in one. He leaned and ran his gloved hand forgivingly along the slatey blue neck, reached farther
and pulled facetiously the roan's ears, and the roan meekly permitted the liberties. He half
turned in the saddle and slapped the plump hips, and the Weaver never moved. "Why, you're an
all-right little hoss!" praised Andy, slapping again and again.

The decision was being bellowed from the megaphone and Andy, hearing it thus officially, trotted
over to where a man was holding out the belt that proclaimed him champion of the state. Andy
reached out a hand for the belt, buckled it around his middle and saluted the grand stand as
he used to do from the circus ring when one André de Grenó had performed his most difficult feat.

The Happy Family crowded up, shamefaced and manfully willing to own themselves wrong.

"We're down and ready to be walked on by the Champion," Weary announced quizzically. "Mama
mine! but yuh sure can ride."

Andy looked at them, grinned and did an exceedingly foolish thing, just to humiliate Happy
Jack, who, he afterwards said, still looked unconvinced. He coolly got upon his feet in the
saddle, stood so while he saluted the Happy Family mockingly, lighted the cigarette he had
just rolled, then, with another derisive salute, turned a double somersault in the air and
lighted upon his feet--and the roan did nothing more belligerent than to turn his head and
eye Andy suspiciously.

"By gracious, maybe you fellows'll some day own up yuh don't know it all!" he cried, and led
the Weaver back into the corral and away from the whooping maniacs across the track.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANDY, THE LIAR

Andy Green licked a cigarette into shape the while he watched with unfriendly eyes the shambling
departure of their guest. "I believe the darned old reprobate was lyin' to us," he remarked,
when the horseman disappeared into a coulee.

"You sure ought to be qualified to recognize the symptoms," grunted Cal Emmett, kicking his
foot out of somebody's carelessly coiled rope on the ground. "That your rope, Happy? No wonder
you're always on the bum for one. If you'd try tying it on your saddle--"

"Aw, g'wan. That there's Andy's rope--"

"If you look at my saddle, you'll find my rope right where it belongs," Andy retorted. "I ain't
sheepherder enough to leave it kicking around under foot. That rope belongs to his nibs that
just rode off. When he caught up his horse again after dinner, he throwed his rope down while
he saddled up, and then went off and forgot it. He wasn't easy in his mind--that jasper wasn't.
I don't go very high on that hard-luck tale he told. I know the boy he had wolfing with him
last winter, and he wasn't the kind to pull out with all the stuff he could get his hands on.
He was an all-right fellow, and if there's been any rusty work done down there in the breaks,
this shifty-eyed mark done it. He was lying--"

Somebody laughed suddenly, and another chuckle helped to point the joke, until the whole outfit
was in an uproar; for of all the men who had slept under Flying-U tents and eaten beside the
mess-wagon, Andy Green was conceded to be the greatest, the most shameless and wholly incorrigible
liar of the lot.

"Aw, yuh don't want to get jealous of an old stiff like that," Pink soothed musically. "There
ain't one of us but what knows you could lie faster and farther and more of it in a minute,
with your tongue half-hitched around your palate and the deaf-and-dumb language barred, than
any three men in Chouteau County. Don't let it worry yuh, Andy."

"I ain't letting it worry me," said Andy, getting a bit red with trying not to show that the
shot hit him. "When my imagination gets to soaring, I'm willing to bet all I got that it can
fly higher than the rest of you, that have got brains about on a par with a sage-hen, can follow.
When I let my fancy soar, I take notice the rest of yuh like to set in the front row, all right--and
yuh never, to my knowledge, called it a punk show when the curtain rung down; yuh always got
the worth uh your money, and then some.

"But if yuh'd taken notice of the load that old freak was trying to throw into the bunch, you'd
suspicion there was something scaley about it; there was, all right. I'd gamble on it."

"From the symptoms," spoke Weary mildly, rising to an elbow, "Andy's about to erupt one of
those wide, hot, rushing streams of melted imagination that bursts forth from his think-works
ever so often. Don't get us all worked up over it, Andy; what's it going to be this time? A
murder in the Bad-lands?"

Andy clicked his teeth together, thought better of his ill-humor and made reply, though he
had intended to remain dignifiedly silent.

"Yuh rung the bell, m'son--but it ain't any josh. By gracious, I mean it!" He glared at those
who gurgled incredulously, and went on: "No, sir, you bet it ain't any josh with me this time.
That old gazabo had something heavy on his conscience--and knowing the fellow he had reference
to, I sure believe he lied a whole lot when he said Dan pulled out with all the stuff they'd
got together, and went down river. Maybe he went down river, all right--but if he did, it was
most likely to be face-down. Dan was as honest a boy as there is in the country, and he had
money on him that he got mining down in the little Rockies last summer. I know, because he
showed me the stuff last fall when I met him in Benton, and he was fixing to winter with this
fellow that just left.

"Dan was kinda queer about some things, and one of 'em was about money. It never made any difference
how much or how little he had, he always packed it in his clothes; said a bank had busted on
him once and left him broke in the middle uh winter, and he wasn't going to let it happen again.
He never gambled none, nor blowed his money any farther than a couple uh glasses uh beer once
in a while. He was one uh these saving cusses--but he was honest; I know that for a fact.

"So he had all this money on him, and went down there with this jasper, that he'd got in with
somehow and didn't know much about, and they wolfed all winter, according to all accounts,
and must uh made quite a stake, the way the bounty runs up, these days. And here comes this
darned Siwash, hiking out uh there fast as he can--and if he hadn't run slap onto us at this
crossing, I'll gamble he'd never uh showed up at camp at all, but kept right on going. We didn't
ask him no questions, did we? But he goes to all the pains uh telling us his tale uh woe, about
how Dan had robbed him and pulled out down river.

"If that was the case, wouldn't he be apt to hike out after him and try and get back his stuff?
And wouldn't--"

"How much money did this friend uh yours have?" queried Jack Bates innocently.

"Well, when I seen him in Benton, he had somewhere between six and seven hundred dollars. He
got it all changed into fifty-dollar bills--"

"Oh, golly!" Jack Bates rolled over in disgust. "Andy's losing his grip. Why, darn yuh, if
you was in a normal, lying condition, you'd make it ten thousand, at the lowest--and I've seen
the time when you'd uh said fifty thousand; and you'd uh made us swallow the load, too! Buck
up and do a good stunt, Andy, or else keep still. Why, Happy Jack could tell that big a lie!"

"Aw, gwan!" Happy Jack rose up to avenge the insult. "Yuh needn't compare me to Andy Green.
I ain't a liar, and I can lick the darned son-of-a-gun that calls me one. I ain't, and yuh
can't say I am, unless yuh lie worse'n Andy."

"Calm down," urged Weary pacifically. "Jack said yuh could lie; he didn't say--"

"By gracious, you'd think I was necked up with a whole bunch uh George Washingtons!" growled
Andy, half-indignantly. "And what gets me is, that I tell the truth as often as anybody in
the outfit; oftener than some I could mention. But that ain't the point. I'm telling the truth
now, when I say somebody ought to hike down to their camp and see what this old skunk has done
with Dan. I'd bet money you'd find him sunk in the river, or cached under a cut-bank, or something
like that. If he'd kept his face closed I wouldn't uh give it a second thought, but the more
I think uh the story he put up, the more I believe there's something wrong. He's made way with
Dan somehow, and--"

"Yes. Sure thing," drawled Pink wickedly. "Let's organize a searching party and go down there
and investigate. It's only about a three or four days' trip, through the roughest country the
Lord ever stood on end to cool and then forgot till it crumpled down in spots and got set that
way, so He just left it go and mixed fresh mud for the job He was working on. Andy'd lead us
down there, and we'd find--"

"His friend Dan buried in a tomato can, maybe," supplied Jack Bates.

"By golly, I'll bet yuh could put friend Dan into one," Slim burst out. "By golly, I never
met up with no Dan that packed fifty-dollar bills around in his gun-pocket--"

"Andy's telling the truth. He says so," reproved Weary. "And when Andy says a thing is the
truth, yuh always know--"

"It ain't." Cal Emmett finished the sentence, but Weary paid no attention.

"--what to expect. Cadwolloper's right, and we ought to go down there and make a hunt for friend
Dan and his fifty-dollar bills. How many were there, did yuh say?"

"You go to the devil," snapped Andy, getting up determinedly. "Yuh bite quick enough when anybody
throws a load at yuh that would choke a rhinoscerous, but plain truth seems to be too much
for the weak heads of yuh. I guess I'll have to turn loose and lie, so yuh'll listen to me.
There is something crooked about this deal--"

"We all thought it sounded that way," Weary remarked mildly.

"And if yuh did go down to where them two wintered, you'd find out I'm right. But yuh won't,
and that old cutthroat will get off with the murder--and the money."

"Don't he lie natural?" queried Jack Bates solemnly.

That was too much. Andy glared angrily at the group, picked up the wolfer's rope, turned on
his heel and walked off to where his horse was tied; got on him and rode away without once
looking back, though he knew quite well that they were watching every move he made. It did
not help to smooth his temper that the sound of much laughing followed him as he swung into
the trail taken by the man who had left not long before.

Where he went, that afternoon when for some reason sufficient for the foreman--who was Chip
Bennett--the Flying U roundup crew lay luxuriously snoring in the shade instead of riding hurriedly
and hotly the high divides, no one but Andy himself knew. They talked about him after he left,
and told one another how great a liar he was, and how he couldn't help it because he was born
that way, and how you could hardly help believing him. They recalled joyously certain of his
fabrications that had passed into the history of the Flying U, and wondered what josh he was
trying to spring this time.

"What we ought to do," advised Cal, "is to lead him on and let him lie his darndest, and make
out we believe him. And then we can give him the laugh good and plenty--and maybe cure him."

"Cure nothing!" exclaimed Jack Bates, getting up because the sun had discovered him, and going
over to the mess-wagon where a bit of shade had been left unoccupied. "About the only way to
cure Andy of lying, is to kill him. He was working his way up to some big josh, and if yuh
let him alone you'll find out what it is, all right. I wouldn't worry none about it, if I was
you." To prove that he did not worry, Jack immediately went to sleep.

Such being the attitude of the Happy Family, when Andy rode hurriedly into camp at sundown,
his horse wet to the tips of his ears with sweat, they sat up, expectancy writ large upon their
faces. No one said anything, however, while Andy unsaddled and came over to beg a belated supper
from the cook; nor yet while he squatted on his heels beside the cook-tent and ate hungrily.
He seemed somewhat absorbed in his thoughts, and they decided mentally that Andy was a sure-enough
good actor, and that if they were not dead next to him and his particular weakness, they would
swallow his yarn whole--whatever it was. A blood-red glow was in the sky to the west, and it
lighted Andy's face queerly, like a vivid blush on the face of a girl.

Andy scraped his plate thoughtfully with his knife, looked into his coffee-cup, stirred the
dregs absently and dipped out half a spoonful of undissolved sugar, which he swallowed meditatively.
He tossed plate, cup and spoon toward the dishpan, sent knife and fork after them and got out
his smoking material. And the Happy Family, grouped rather closely together and watching unobtrusively,
stirred to the listening point. The liar was about to lie.

"Talk about a guilty conscience giving a man dead away," Andy began, quite unconscious of the
mental attitude of his fellows, and forgetting also his anger of the afternoon, "it sure does
work out like that, sometimes. I followed that old devil, just out uh curiosity, to see if
he headed for Dry Lake like he said he was going. We didn't have any reason for keeping cases
on him, or suspicioning anything--but he acted like we was all out on his trail, the fool!

"I kinda had a hunch that if he had been up to any deviltry, it would show on him when he left
here, and I was plumb right about it. He went all straight enough till he got down into Black
Coulee; and right there it looked like he got kinda panicky and suspicious, for he turned square
off the trail and headed up the coulee."

"He must uh had 'em," Weary commented, quite as if he believed.

"Yuh wait till I'm through," Andy advised, still wholly unconscious of their disbelief. "Yuh
was all kinda skeptical when I told yuh he had a guilty conscience, but I was right about it,
and come mighty near laying out on the range to-night with my toes pointing straight up, just
because you fellows wouldn't--"

"Sun-stroke?" asked Pink, coming closer, his eyes showing purple in the softened light.

"No--yuh wait, now, till I tell yuh." Whereupon Andy smoked relishfully and in silence, and
from the tail of his eye watched his audience squirm with impatience. "A man gets along a whole
lot better without any conscience," he began at last, irrelevantly, "'specially if he wants
to be mean. I trailed this jasper up the coulee and out on the bench, across that level strip
between Black Coulee and Dry Spring Gulch, and down the gulch a mile or so. He was fogging
right along, and seemed as if he looked back every ten rods--I know he spotted me just as I
struck the level at the head uh Black Coulee, because he acted different then.

"I could see he was making across country for the trail to Chinook, but I wanted to overhaul
him and have a little casual talk about Dan. I don't suppose yuh noticed I took his rope along;
I wanted some excuse for hazing after him like that, yuh see."

"Uh course, such accommodating cusses as you wouldn't be none strange to him," fleered Cal.

"Well, he never found out what I was after," sighed Andy. "It wasn't my fault I didn't come
up with him, and my intentions were peaceful and innocent. But do yuh know what happened? He
got out uh sight down Dry Spring Gulch--yuh know where that elephant-head rock sticks out,
and the trail makes a short turn around it--that's where I lost sight of him. But he wasn't
very far in the lead, and I was dead anxious to give him his rope, so I loped on down--"

"You were taking long chances, old-timer; that's mighty rough going, along there," hinted Chip,
gravely.

"Sure, I was," Andy agreed easily. "But yuh recollect, I was in a hurry. So I'd just rounded
the elephant's head, when bing! something spats the rock, just over my right shoulder, and
my horse squatted down on his rump and said he'd gone far enough. I kinda felt the same way
about it, so when he wheeled and humped himself back up the trail, I didn't argue none with him."

There was silence so deep one could hear the saddle-bunch cropping the thick grasses along
the creek. If this were true--this tale that Andy was telling--The Happy Family, half tempted
to believe, glanced furtively at one another.

"Aw, gwan!" It was the familiar, protesting croak of Happy Jack. "What did yuh turn tail for?
Why didn't yuh have it out with him?" The Happy Family drew a long breath, and the temptation
to believe was pushed aside.

"Because my gun was rolled up in my bed," Andy replied simply. "I ain't as brave as you are,
Happy. I ain't got the nerve to ride right up on a man that's scared plumb silly and pumping
lead my way fast as he can work the lever on his rifle, and lick him with my fists till he
howls, and then throw him and walk up and down his person and flap my wings and crow. It's
awful to have to confess it, but I'm willing to run from any man that's shooting at me when
I can't shoot back. I'd give a lot to be as brave as you are, Happy."

Happy Jack growled and subsided.

"Well, by golly, there's times when we'd be justified in shooting yuh, but I don't see what
he'd want to do it for," objected Slim.

"Guilty conscience, I told yuh," retorted Andy. "He seen I was chasing him up, and I guess
he thought it was somebody that had got next to what happened--Lord, I wish I knew what did
happen, down there in the breaks! Boys," Andy got up and stood looking earnestly down at them
in the twilight, "you can't make me believe that there hasn't been a murder done! That fellow
has been up to something, or he wouldn't be acting so damn' queer. And if it was just plain
stealing, Dan would sure be hot on his trail--because Dan thought more of his money than most
men do of their wives. It was about all he lived for, and he wasn't any coward. That old man
never would get it off him without a big ruction, and if he did, Dan would be right after him
bigger'n a wolf. There's something wrong, you take my word."

"What do yuh want us to do about it?" It was Chip who asked the question, and his tone was
quite calm and impersonal.

Andy looked at him reproachfully. "Do? What is there to do, except go down there and see? If
we can find that out, we can put the sheriff wise and let him do the rest. It sure does seem
kinda tough, if a man can do a murder and robbery and get off with it, just because nobody
cares enough about it to head him off."

The Happy Family stirred uneasily. Of course, it was all just a josh of Andy's--but he was
such a convincing liar! Almost they felt guilty of criminal negligence that they did not at
once saddle up and give chase to the murderer, who had tried to kill Andy for following him,
and who was headed for Chinook after unnecessarily proclaiming himself bound for Dry Lake.

"Do you want the whole outfit to turn out?" asked Chip calmly at last.

"No-o--"

"Say, is it anywheres near that prehistoric castle you found once?" Ping asked maliciously,
unbelief getting strong hold of him again.

Andy turned toward him, scowling. "No, Angel-child, it ain't," he snapped. "And you fellows
can back up and snort all yuh darn please, and make idiots of yourselves. But yuh can't do
any business making me out a hot-air peddler on this deal. I stand pat, just where I stood
at first, and it'll take a lot uh cackling to make me back down. That old devil did lie about
Dan, and he did take a shot at me--"

"He took yuh for a horse-thief, most likely," explained Jack Bates.

"He didn't need no field glass to see you was a suspicious character, by golly," chortled Slim.

"He thought yuh was after what little your friend Dan had overlooked, chances is," added Cal
Emmett.

"Did the fog roll down and hide the horrible sight?" asked Jack Bates.

That, and much more, brought about a distinct coldness between the Happy Family and one Andy
Green, so that the sun went down upon Andy's wrath, and rose to find it still bubbling hotly
in the outraged heart of him.

It was Jack Bates who precipitated an open war by singing an adapted version of "Massa's In
the Cold, Cold Ground," just when they were eating breakfast. As an alleged musical effort
it was bad enough, but as a personal insult it was worse. One hesitates to repeat the doggerel,
even in an effort to be exact. However, the chorus, bellowed shamelessly by Jack, was this:

    "Down in the Bad-lands, hear that awful sound.
    Andy Green is there a-weeping--"

Jack Bates got no further than that, for Andy first threw his plate at Jack and then landed
upon him with much force and venom, so that Jack went backwards and waved long legs convulsively
in the air, and the Happy Family stood around and howled their appreciation of the spectacle.

When it dawned upon them that Andy was very much in earnest, and that his fist was landing
with unpleasant frequency just where it was most painful to receive it, they separated the
two by main strength and argued loudly for peace. But Andy was thoroughly roused and would
have none of it, and hurled at them profanity and insulting epithets, so that more than Jack
Bates looked upon him with unfriendly eyes and said things which were not calculated to smooth
roughened tempers.

"That's a-plenty, now," quelled Chip, laying detaining hand upon the nearest, who happened
to be Andy himself. "You sound like a bunch of old women. What do you want to do the worst
and quickest, Andy?--and I don't mean killing off any of these alleged joshers, either."

Andy clicked his teeth together, swallowed hard and slowly unclenched his hands and grinned;
but the grin was not altogether a pleasant one, and the light of battle still shone in the
big, gray eyes of him.

"You're the boss," he said, "but if yuh don't like my plans you'll just have one less to pay
wages to. What I'm going to do is throw my saddle on my private horse and ride down into the
Bad-lands and see for myself how the cards lay. Maybe it's awful funny to the rest of yuh,
but I'm takin' it kinda serious, myself, and I'm going to find out how about it before I'm
through. I can't seem to think it's a josh when some old mark makes a play like that fellow
did, and tries to put a bullet into my carcass for riding the same trail he took. It's me for
the Bad-lands--and you can think what yuh damn' please about it."

Chip stood quite still till he was through, and eyed him sharply. "You better take old Buck
to pack your blankets and grub," he told him, in a matter-of-fact tone. "We'll be swinging
down that way in two or three days; by next Saturday you'll find us camped at the mouth of
Jump-off Coulee, if nothing happens. That'll give you four days to prowl around. Come on, boys--we've
got a big circle ahead of us this morning, and it's going to be hot enough to singe the tails
off our cayuses by noon."

That, of course, settled the disturbance and set the official seal of approval upon Andy's
going; for Chip was too wise to permit the affair to grow serious, and perhaps lose a man as
good as Andy; family quarrels had not been entirely unknown among the boys of the Flying U,
and with tact they never had been more than a passing unpleasantness. So that, although Jack
Bates swore vengeance and nursed sundry bruised spots on his face, and though Andy saddled,
packed old Buck with his blankets and meager camp outfit and rode off sullenly with no word
to anyone and only a scowling glance or two for farewell, Chip mounted and rode cheerfully
away at the head of his Happy Family, worrying not at all over the outcome.

"I've got half a notion that Andy was telling the truth, after all," he remarked to Weary when
they were well away from camp. "It's worth taking a chance on, anyhow--and when he comes back
things will be smooth again."

When Saturday came and brought no Andy to camp, the Happy Family began to speculate upon his
absence. When Sunday's circle took them within twelve or fifteen miles of the camp in the Bad-lands,
Pink suddenly proposed that they ride down there and see what was going on. "He won't be looking
for us," he explained, to hide a secret uneasiness. "And if he's there we can find out what
the josh is. If he ain't, we'll have it on him good and strong."

"I betche Andy just wanted a lay-off, and took that way uh getting it," declared Happy Jack
pessimistically. "I betche he's in town right now, tearing things wide open and tickled to
think he don't have to ride in this hot sun. Yuh can't never tell what Andy's got cached up
his sleeve."

"Chip thinks he was talking on the level," Weary mused. "Maybe he was; as Happy says, yuh can't
tell."

As always before, this brought the Happy Family to argument which lasted till they neared the
deep, lonely coulee where, according to Andy, "friend Dan" had wintered with the shifty-eyed
old man.

"Now, how the mischief do we get down?" questioned Jack Bates complainingly. "This is bound
to be the right place--there's the cabin over there against the cottonwoods."

"Aw, come on back," urged Happy Jack, viewing the steep bluff with disfavor. "Chances is, Andy's
in town right now. He ain't down--"

"There's old Buck, over there by the creek," Pink announced. "I'd know him far as I could see
him. Let's ride around that way. There's sure to be a trail down." He started off, and they
followed him dispiritedly, for the heat was something to remember afterwards with a shudder.

"Here's the place," Pink called back to them, after some minutes of riding. "Andy's horse is
down there, too, but I don't see Andy--"

"Chances is--" began Happy Jack, but found no one listening.

It would be impossible to ride down, so they dismounted and prepared for the scramble. They
could see Buck, packed as if for the homeward trail, and they could see Andy's horse, saddled
and feeding with reins dragging. He looked up at them and whinnied, and the sound but accentuated
the loneliness of the place. Buck, too, saw them and came toward them, whinnying wistfully;
but, though they strained eyes in every direction, they could see nothing of the man they sought.

It was significant of their apprehension that not even Happy Jack made open comment upon the
strangeness of it. Instead, they dug bootheels deep where the slope was loose gravel, and watched
that their horses did not slide down upon them; climbed over rocks where the way was barred,
and prayed that horse and man might not break a leg. They had been over rough spots, and had
climbed in and out of deep coulees, but never had they travelled a rougher trail than that.

"My God! boys, look down there!" Pink cried, when yet fifty perpendicular feet lay between
them and the level below.

They looked, and drew breath sharply. Huddled at the very foot of the last and worst slope
lay Andy, and they needed no words to explain what had happened. It was evident that he had
started to climb the bluff and had slipped and fallen to the bottom, And from the way he was
lying--The Happy Family shut out the horror of the thought and hurried recklessly to the place.

It was Pink who, with a last slide and a stumbling recovery at the bottom, reached him first.
It was Jack Bates who came a close second and helped to turn him--for he had fallen partly
on his face. From the way one arm was crumpled back under him, they knew it to be broken. Further
than that they could only guess and hope. While they were feeling for heart-beats, the others
came down and crowded close. Pink looked up at them strainedly.

"Oh, for God's sake, some of yuh get water," he cried sharply. "What good do yuh think you're
doing, just standing around?"

"We ought to be hung for letting him come down here alone," Weary repented. "It ain't safe
for one man in this cursed country. Where's he hurt, Cadwolloper?"

"How in hell do I know?" Anxiety ever sharpened the tongue of Pink. "If somebody'd bring some
water--"

"Happy's gone. And there ain't a drop uh whisky in the crowd! Can't we get him into the shade?
This damned sun is enough to--"

"Look out how yuh lift him, man! You ain't wrassling a calf, remember! You take his shoulder,
Jack--easy, yuh damned, awkward--"

"Here comes Happy, with his hat full. Don't slosh it all on at once! A little at a time's better.
Get some on his head."

So with much incoherence and with everybody giving orders and each acting independently, they
bore him tenderly into the shade of a rock and worked over him feverishly, their faces paler
than his. When he opened his eyes and stared at them dully, they could have shouted for very
relief. When he closed them again they bent over him solicitously and dripped more water from
the hat of Happy Jack. And not one of them but remembered remorsefully the things they had
said of him, not an hour before; the things they had said even when he was lying there alone
and hurt--hurt unto death, for all they knew.

When he was roused enough to groan when they moved him, however gently, they began to consider
the problem of getting him to camp, and they cursed the long, hot miles that lay between. They
tried to question him, but if he understood what they were saying he could not reply except
by moaning, which was not good to hear. All that they could gather was that when they moved
his body in a certain way the pain of it was unbearable. Also, he would faint when his head
was lowered, or even lifted above the level. They must guard against that if they meant to
get him to camp alive.

"We'll have to carry him up this cussed hill, and then--If he could ride at all, we might make it."

"The chances is he'll die on the road," croaked Happy Jack tactlessly, and they scowled at
him for voicing the fear they were trying to ignore. They had been trying not to think that
he might die on the road, and they had been careful not to mention the possibility. As it was,
no one answered.

How they ever got him to the top of that heartbreaking slope, not one of them ever knew. Twice
he fainted outright. And Happy Jack, carefully bearing his hat full of water for just that
emergency, slipped and spilled the whole of it just when they needed it most. At the last,
it was as if they carried a dead man between them--Jack Bates and Cal Emmett it was who bore
him up the last steep climb--and Pink and Weary, coming behind with all the horses, glanced
fearfully into each other's eyes and dared not question.

At the top they laid him down in the grass and swore at Happy Jack, because they must do something,
and because they dared not face what might be before them. They avoided looking at one another
while they stood helplessly beside the still figure of the man they had maligned. If he died,
they would always have that bitter spot in their memory--and even with the fear of his dying
they stood remorseful.

Of a sudden Andy opened his eyes and looked at them with the light of recognition, and they
bent eagerly toward him. "If--yuh could--on--my horse--I--I--could ride--maybe." Much pain
it cost him, they knew by the look on his face. But he was game to the last--just as they knew
he would be.

"Yuh couldn't ride Twister, yuh know yuh couldn't," Pink objected gently. "But--if yuh could
ride Jack's horse--he's dead gentle, and we'd help hold yuh on. Do you think yuh could?"

Andy moved his head uneasily. "I--I've got to," he retorted weakly, and even essayed a smile
to reassure them. "I--ain't all--in yet," he added with an evident effort, and the Happy Family
gulped sympathetically, and wondered secretly if they would have such nerve under like conditions.

"It's going to be one hell of a trip for yuh," Weary murmured commiseratingly, when they were
lifting him into the saddle. Of a truth, it did seem absolutely foolhardy to attempt it, but
there was nothing else to do, unless they left him there. For no wagon could possibly be driven
within miles of the place.

Andy leaned limply over the saddle-horn, his face working with the agony he suffered. Somehow
they had got him upon the horse of Jack Bates, but they had felt like torturers while they
did it, and the perspiration on their faces was not all caused by heat.

"My God, I'd rather be hung than go through this again," muttered Cal, white under the tan. "I--"

"I'll tackle--it now," gasped Andy, with a pitiful attempt to sit straight in the saddle. "Get
on--boys--"

Reluctantly they started to obey, when the horse of Jack Bates gave a sudden leap ahead. Many
hands reached out to grasp him by the bridle, but they were a shade too late, and he started
to run, with Andy swaying in the saddle. While they gazed horrified, he straightened convulsively,
turned his face toward them and raised a hand; caught his hat by the brim and swung it high
above his head.

"Much obliged, boys," he yelled derisively. "I sure do appreciate being packed up that hill;
it was too blamed hot to walk. Say! if you'd gone around that bend, you'd uh found a good trail
down. Yuh struck about the worst place there is. So-long--I ain't all in yet!" He galloped
away, while the Happy Family stared after him with bulging eyes.

"The son-of-a-gun!" gasped Weary weakly, and started for his horse.

"Darn yuh, you'll be all in when we get hold of yuh!" screamed Jack Bates, and gave chase.

It was when they were tearing headlong after him down the coulee's rim and into a shallow gully
which seamed unexpectedly the level, that they saw his horse swerve suddenly and go bounding
along the edge of the slope with Andy "sawing" energetically upon the bit.

"What trick's he up to now?" cried Cal Emmett resentfully, feeling that, in the light of what
had gone before, Andy could not possibly make a single motion in good faith.

Andy brought his horse under control and turned back to meet them, and the Happy Family watched
him guardedly until they reached the gulley and their own horses took fright at a dark, shambling
object that scuttled away down toward the coulee-head. Andy was almost upon them before they
could give him any attention.

"Did you see it?" he called excitedly. "It was a bear, and he was digging at something under
that shelving rock. Come on and let's take a look."

"Aw, gwan!" Happy Jack adjured crossly. He was thinking of all the water he had carried painstakingly
in his hat, for the relief of this conscienceless young reprobate, and he was patently suspicious
of some new trick.

"Well, by gracious!" Andy rode quite close--dangerously close, considering the mood they were
in--and eyed them queerly. "I sure must have a horrible rep, when yuh won't believe your own
eyes just because I happen to remark that a bear is a bear. I'll call it a pinto hog, if it'll
make yuh feel any better. And I'll say it wasn't doing any digging; only, I'm going down there
and take a look. There's an odor--"

There was, and they could not deny it, even though Andy did make the assertion. And though
they had threatened much that was exceedingly unpleasant, and what they would surely do to
Andy if they ever got him within reach, they followed him quite peaceably.

They saw him get off his horse and stand looking down at something--and there was that in his
attitude which made them jab spurs against their horses' flanks. A moment later they, too,
were looking down at something, and they were not saying a word.

"It's Dan, all right," said Andy at last, and his tone was hushed. "I hunted the coulee over--every
foot of it--and looked up some of the little draws, and went along the river; but I couldn't
find any trace of him. I never thought about coming up here.

"Look there. His head was smashed in with a rock or something--ugh! Here, let me away, boys.
This thing--" He walked uncertainly away and sat down upon a rock with his face in his hands,
and what they could see of his face was as white as the tan would permit. Somehow, not a man
of them doubted him then. And not a man of them but felt much the same. They backed away and
stood close to where Andy was sitting.

"You wouldn't believe me when I told yuh," he reproached, when the sickness had passed and
he could lift his head and look at them. "You thought I was lying, and yuh made yourselves
pretty blamed obnoxious to me--but I got even for that." There was much satisfaction in his
tone, and the Happy Family squirmed. "Yuh see, I was telling the truth, all right--and now
I'm going to get even some more. I'm going to take--er--Pink along for a witness, and notify
the outfit that yuh won't be back for a day or two, and send word to the sheriff. And you jaspers
can have the pleasure uh standing guard over--that." He shivered a little and turned his glance
quickly away. "And I hope," he added maliciously, as he mounted his own horse, "you'll make
Jack Bates stand an all-night guard by his high lonesome. He's sure got it coming to him!"

With Pink following close at his heels he rode away up the ridge.

"Say, there's grub enough on old Buck to do yuh to-night," he called down to them, "in case
Chip don't send yuh any till to-morrow." He waved a subdued farewell and turned his face again
up the ridge, and before they had quite decided what to do about it, he was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

"WOLF! WOLF!"

Andy Green, of the Flying U, loped over the grassy level and hummed a tune as he rode. The
sun shone just warm enough to make a man feel that the world was good enough for him, and the
wind was just a lazy, whispering element to keep the air from growing absolutely still and
stagnant. There was blue sky with white, fluffy bits of cloud like torn cotton drifting as
lazily as the wind, and there were meadow-larks singing and swaying, and slow-moving range
cattle with their calves midway to weaning time. Not often may one ride leisurely afar on so
perfect a day, and while Andy was a sunny-natured fellow at all times, on such a day he owned
not a care.

A mile farther, and he rode over a low shoulder of the butte he was passing, ambled down the
long slope on the far side, crossed another rounded hill, followed down a dry creek-bed at
the foot of it, sought with his eye for a practicable crossing and went headlong down a steep,
twenty-foot bank; rattled the loose rocks in the dry, narrow channel and went forging up a
bank steeper than the first, with creaking saddle-leather and grunting horse, and struck again
easy going.

"She slipped on me," he murmured easily, meaning the saddle. "I'm riding on your tail, just
about; but I guess we can stand it the rest uh the why, all right." If he had not been so lazy
and self-satisfied he would have stopped right there and reset the saddle. But if he had, he
might have missed something which he liked to live over o' nights.

He went up a gentle rise, riding slowly because of the saddle, passed over the ridge and went
down another short slope. At the foot of the slope, cuddled against another hill, stood a low,
sod-roofed cabin with rusty stove-pipe rising aslant from one corner. This was the spot he
had been aiming for, and he neared it slowly.

It was like a dozen other log cabins tucked away here and there among the foothills of the
Bear Paws. It had an air of rakish hominess, as if it would be a fine, snuggy place in winter,
when the snow and the wind swept the barren land around. In the summer, it stood open-doored
and open-windowed, with all the litter of bachelor belongings scattered about or hanging from
pegs on the wall outside. There was a faint trail of smoke from the rusty pipe, and it brought
a grunt of satisfaction from Andy.

"He's home, all right. And if he don't throw together some uh them sour-dough biscuits uh his,
there'll be something happen! Hope the bean-pot's full. G'wan, yuh lazy old skate." He slapped
the rein-ends lightly down the flanks of his horse and went at a trot around the end of the
cabin. And there he was so utterly taken by surprise that he almost pulled his mount into a
sitting posture.

A young woman was stooping before the open door, and she was pouring something from a white
earthen bowl into a battered tin pan. Two waggle-tailed lambs--a black one and a white--were
standing on their knees in their absorption, and were noisily drinking of the stuff as fast
as it came within reach.

Andy had half a minute in which to gaze before the young woman looked up, said "Oh!" in a breathless
sort of way and retreated to the doorstep, where she stood regarding him inquiringly.

Andy, feeling his face go unreasonably red, lifted his hat. He knew that she was waiting for
him to speak, but he could not well say any of the things he thought, and blurted out an utterly
idiotic question.

"What are yuh feeding 'em?"

The girl looked down at the bowl in her hands and laughed a little.

"Rolled oats," she answered, "boiled very thin and with condensed cream added to taste. Good
morning." She seemed about to disappear, and that brought Andy to his senses. He was not, as
a rule, a bashful young man.

"Good morning. Is--er--Mr. Johnson at home?" He came near saying "Take-Notice," but caught
himself in time. Take-Notice Johnson was what men called the man whom Andy had ridden over
to see upon a more or less trivial matter.

"He isn't, but he will be back--if you care to wait." She spoke with a certain preciseness
which might be natural or artificial, and she stood in the doorway with no symptoms of immediate
disappearance.

Andy slid over a bit in the saddle, readjusted his hat so that its brim would shield his eyes
from the sunlight, and prepared to be friendly. "Oh, I'll wait," he said easily. "I've got
all the time there is. Would you mind if I smoked a cigarette?"

"Indeed, I was wishing you would," she told him, with surprising frankness. "I've so longed
to see a dashing young cowboy roll a cigarette with deft, white fingers."

Andy, glancing at her startled, spilled much tobacco down the front of him, stopped to brush
it away and let the lazy breeze snatch the tiny oblong of paper from between his unwatchful
fingers. Of course, she was joshing him, he thought uneasily, as he separated the leaves of
his cigarette book by blowing gently upon them, and singled out another paper. "Are yuh so
new to the country that it's anything of a treat?" he asked guardedly.

"Yes, I'm new. I'm what you people call a pilgrim. Don't you do it with one hand? I thought--oh,
yes! You hold the reins between your firm, white teeth while you roll--"

"Lady, I never travelled with no show," Andy protested mildly and untruthfully. Was she just
joshing? Or didn't she know any better? She looked sober as anything, but somehow her eyes
kind of--

"You see, I know some things about you. Those are chaps" (Heavens! She called them the way
they are spelled, without the soft sound of s!) "That you're wearing for--trousers" (Andy blushed
modestly. He was not wearing them "for trousers".), "and you've got jingling rowels at your
heels, and those are taps--"

"You're going to be shy a yard or two of calico if that black lamb-critter has his say-so,"
Andy cut in remorselessly, and hastily made and lighted his cigarette while she was rescuing
her blue calico skirt from the jaws of the black lamb and puckering her eyebrows over the chewed
place. When her attention was once more given to him, he was smoking as unobtrusively as possible,
and he was gazing at her with a good deal of speculative admiration. He looked hastily down
at the lambs. "Mary had two little lambs," he murmured inanely.

"They're not mine," she informed him, taking him seriously--or seeming to do so. Andy had some
trouble deciding just how much of her was sincere. "They were here when I came, and I can't
take them back with me, so there's no use in claiming them. They'd be such a nuisance on the
train--"

"I reckon they would," Andy agreed, "if yuh had far to go."

"Well, you can't call San Jose close," she observed, meditatively. "It takes four days to come."

"You're a long way from home. Does it--are yuh homesick, ever?" Andy was playing for information
without asking directly how long she intended to stay--a question which had suddenly seemed
quite important. Also, why was she stopping here with Take-Notice Johnson, away off from everybody?

"Seeing I've only been here four days, the novelty hasn't worn off yet," she replied. "But
it does seem more like four weeks; and how I'll ever stand two months of it, not ever seeing
a soul but father--"

Andy looked reproachful, and also glad. Didn't she consider him a soul? And Take-Notice was
her dad! To be sure, Take-Notice had never mentioned having a daughter, but then, in the range-land,
men don't go around yawping their personal affairs.

Before Take-Notice returned, Andy felt that he had accomplished much. He had learned that the
young woman's name really was Mary, and that she was a stenographer in a real-estate office
in San Jose, where her mother lived; that the confinement of office-work had threatened her
with pulmonary tuberculosis (Andy failed, at the moment, to recognize the disease which had
once threatened him also, and wondered vaguely) and that the doctor had advised her coming
to Montana for a couple of months; that she had written to her father (it seemed queer to have
anyone speak of old Take-Notice as "father") and that he had told her to "come a-running."

She told Andy that she had not seen her father for five years (Andy knew that Take-Notice had
disappeared for a whole winter, about that long ago, and that no one had discovered where he
went) because he and her mother were "not congenial."

He had dismounted, at her invitation, and had gone clanking to the doorstep and sat down--giving
a furtive kick now and then at the black lamb, which developed a fondness for the leathern
fringe on his chaps--and had eaten an orange which she had brought in her trunk all the way
from San Jose, and which she had picked from a tree which stood by her mother's front gate.
He had nibbled a ripe olive--eating it with what Andy himself would term "long teeth"--and
had tried hard not to show how vile he found it. He had inspected two star-fishes which she
had found last Fourth-of-July at Monterey and had dried; and had crumpled a withered leaf of
bay in his hands and had smelled and nearly sneezed his head off; and had cracked and eaten
four walnuts--also gathered from her mother's yard--and three almonds from the same source,
and had stared admiringly at a note-book filled with funny marks which she called shorthand.

Between-whiles Andy had told her his name and the name of the outfit he worked for; had explained
what he meant by "outfit," and had drawn a large U in the dirt to show her what a Flying U
was, and had wanted to murder the black lamb which kept getting in his way and trying to eat
the stick Andy used for a pencil; had confessed that he did sometimes play cards for money,
as do the cowboys in Western stories, but assured her that he had never killed off any of his
friends during any little disagreement. He had owned to drinking a glass of whisky now and
then, but declared that it was only for snake bite and did not happen oftener than once in
six months or so. Yes, he had often had rattlers in his bed, but not to hurt. This is where
he began to inspect the star-fishes, and so turned the conversation safely back to California
and himself away from the temptation to revel in fiction.

All of which took time, so that Take-Notice came before they quite felt a longing for his presence;
and though the sun shone straight in the cabin door and so proved that it was full noon, there
was no fire left in the stove and nothing in sight that was eatable save another ripe olive--which
Andy had politely declined--and two more almonds and an orange.

A stenographer, with a fluffy pompadour that dipped distractingly at one side, and a gold watch
suspended around the neck like a locket, and with sleeves that came no farther than the elbow
and heels higher than any riding boot Andy ever owned in his life, and with teeth that were
very white and showed a glint of gold here and there, and eyes that looked at one with insincere
gravity, and fingers with nails that shone--fingers that pinched red lips together meditatively--a
stenographer who has all these entrancing attributes, Andy discovered, may yet lack those housewifely
accomplishments that make a man dream of a little home for two. So far as Andy could see, her
knowledge of cookery extended no farther than rolled oat porridge for the two lambs. 

When the branches which grow the second year above the branch of the preceding year, are not
of equal thickness above the antecedent branches, but are on one side, then the vigour of the lower
branch is diverted to nourish the one above it, although it may be
somewhat on one side.

But if the ramifications are equal in their growth, the veins of the main stem will be straight
[parallel] and equidistant at every degree of the height of the plant.

Wherefore, O Painter! you, who do not know these laws! in order to
escape the blame of those who understand them, it will be well that
you should represent every thing from nature, and not despise such
study as those do who work [only] for money.

The direction of growth (403-407).

403.

OF THE RAMIFICATIONS OF PLANTS.

The plants which spread very much have the angles of the spaces which divide their branches
more obtuse in proportion as their point of origin is lower down; that is nearer to the thickest
and oldest portion of the tree.

Therefore in the youngest portions of the tree the angles of ramification are more acute. [Footnote:
Compare the sketches on the lower portion of Pl. XXVII, No. 2.] 404.

The tips of the boughs of plants [and trees], unless they are borne
down by the weight of their fruits, turn towards the sky as much as
possible.

The upper side of their leaves is turned towards the sky that it may receive the nourishment of the dew
which falls at night.

The sun gives spirit and life to plants and the earth nourishes them
with moisture.

[9] With regard to this I made the experiment of leaving only one small
root on a gourd and this I kept nourished with water, and the gourd
brought to perfection all the fruits it could produce, which were
about 60 gourds of the long kind, andi set my mind diligently [to
consider] this vitality and perceived that the dews of night were
what supplied it abundantly with moisture through the insertion of
its large leaves and gave nourishment to the plant and its offspring--
or the seeds which its offspring had to produce-- [21].

The rule of the leaves produced on the last shoot of the year will be that they will grow in
a contrary direction on the twin branches; that is, that the insertion of the leaves turns round
each branch in such a way, as that the sixth leaf above is produced
over the sixth leaf below, and the way they turn is that if one turns
towards its companion to the right, the other turns to the left, the
leaf serving as the nourishing breast for the shoot or fruit which
grows the following year.

[Footnote: A French translation of lines 9-12 was given by M. RAVAISSON
in the Gazette des Beaux Arts, Oct. 1877; his paper also contains
some valuable information as to botanical science in the ancient classical
writers and at the time of the Renaissance.] 405.

The lowest branches of those trees which have large leaves and heavy fruits, such as nut-trees,
fig-trees and the like, always droop towards the ground. The branches
always originate above [in the axis of] the leaves. 406. The upper shoots
of the lateral branches of plants lie closer to the parent branch
than the lower ones. 407. The lowest branches, after they have formed
the angle of their separation from the parent stem, always bend downwards
so as not to crowd against the other branches which follow them on
the same stem and to be better able to take the air which nourishes
them.

As is shown by the angle b a c; the branch a c after it has made the corner of the angle a c bends
downwards to c d and the lesser shoot c dries up, being too thin. The main branch always goes
below, as is shown by the branch f n m, which does not go to f n
o. The forms of trees (408-- 411).

408.

The elm always gives a greater length to the last branches of the
year's growth than to the lower ones; and Nature does this because
the highest branches are those which have to add to the size of the
tree; and those at the bottom must get dry because they grow in the
shade and their growth would be an impediment to the entrance of the
solar rays and the air among the main branches of the tree.

The main branches of the lower part bend down more than those above, so as to be more oblique than those
upper ones, and also because they are larger and older.

409.

In general almost all the upright portions of trees curve somewhat
turning the convexity towards the South; and their branches are longer
and thicker and more abundant towards the South than towards the
North.

And this occurs because the sun draws the sap towards that surface of the tree which is nearest to
it.

And this may be observed if the sun is not screened off by other
plants.

410. The cherry-tree is of the character of the fir tree as regards its ramification placed in
stages round its main stem; and its branches spring, 4 or five or 6 [together] opposite each
other; and the tips of the topmost shoots form a pyramid from the
middle upwards; and the walnut and oak form a hemisphere from the
middle upwards.

411. The bough of the walnut which is only hit and beaten when it has brought to perfection... [Footnote:
The end of the text and the sketch in red chalk belonging to it,
are entirely effaced.] The insertion of the leaves (412-- 419).

412. OF THE INSERTION OF THE BRANCHES ON PLANTS. Such as the growth
of the ramification of plants is on their principal branches, so
is that of the leaves on the shoots of the same plant.

These leaves have [Footnote 6: Quattro modi (four modes).

Only three are described in the text, the fourth is only suggested
by a sketch.

This passage occurs in MANZI'S edition of the Trattato, p. 399, but without the sketches and the
text is mutilated in an important part. The whole passage has been commented on, from MANZI'S version,
in Part I of the Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano, by Prof. G. UZIELLI
(Florence 1869, Vol. I). He remarks as to the'four modes': "Leonardo,
come si vede nelle linie sententi da solo tre esempli.

Questa ed altre inessattezze fanno desiderare, sia esaminato di nuovo il manoscritto Vaticano".
This has since been done by D. KNAPP of Tubingen, and his accurate
copy has been published by H. LUDWIG, the painter.

The passage in question occurs in his edition as No. 833; and there
also the drawings are wanting.

The space for them has been left vacant, but in the Vatican copy'niente'has been written on the margin; and
in it, as well as in LUDWIG'S and MANZI'S edition, the text is mutilated.] four modes of growing
one above another.

The first, which is the most general, is that the sixth always originates over the sixth below
[Footnote 8: la sesta di sotto.

"Disposizione 2/ 5 o 1/ 5. Leonardo osservo probabilmente soltanto
la prima"

(UZIELLl).]; the second is that two third ones above are over the
two third ones below [Footnote 10: terze di sotto: "Intende qui senza
dubbio parlare di foglie decussate, in cui il terzo verticello e nel
piano del primo"

(UZIELLI).]; and the third way is that the third above is over the third below [Footnote 11: 3a
di sotto: "Disposizione 1/ 2" (UZIELLI).]. [Footnote: See the four sketches on the upper portion
of the page reproduced as fig. 2 on P1. XXVII.] 413. A DESCRIPTION OF THE ELM. The ramification
of the elm has the largest branch at the top.

The first and the last but one are smaller, when the main trunk is
straight.

The space between the insertion of one leaf to the rest is half the
extreme length of the leaf or somewhat less, for the leaves are at
an interval which is about the 3rd of the width of the leaf.

The elm has more leaves near the top of the boughs than at the base;
and the broad [surface] of the leaves varies little as to [angle and]
aspect.

[Footnote:
See Pl. XXVII, No. 3.

Above the sketch and close under the number of the page is the word'olmo'(elm).]
414.

In the walnut tree the leaves which are distributed on the shoots
of this year are further apart from each other and more numerous in
proportion as the branch from which this shoot springs is a young
one.

And they are inserted more closely and less in number when the shoot that bears them springs from
an old branch. Its fruits are borne at the ends of the shoots. And its largest boughs are the
lowest on the boughs they spring from. And this arises from the
weight of its sap which is more apt to descend than to rise, and
consequently the branches which spring from them and rise towards
the sky are small and slender [20]; and when the shoot turns towards
the sky its leaves spread out from it [at an angle] with an equal
distribution of their tips; and if the shoot turns to the horizon
the leaves lie flat; and this arises from the fact that leaves without
exception, turn their underside to the earth [29].

The shoots are smaller in proportion as they spring nearer to the base
of the bough they spring from. [Footnote: See the two sketches on
Pl XXVII, No. 4.

The second refers to the passage lines 20-30.] 415. OF THE INSERTION OF THE LEAVES ON THE BRANCHES.
The thickness of a branch never diminishes within the space between
one leaf and the next excepting by so much as the thickness of the
bud which is above the leaf and this thickness is taken off from the
branch above [the node] as far as the next leaf.

Nature has so placed the leaves of the latest shoots of many plants that the sixth leaf is always
above the first, and so on in succession, if the rule is not [accidentally] interfered with;
and this occurs for two useful ends in the plant: First that as
the shoot and the fruit of the following year spring from the bud
or eye which lies above and in close contact with the insertion of
the leaf [in the axil], the water which falls upon the shoot can run
down to nourish the bud, by the drop being caught in the hollow [axil]
at the insertion of the leaf.

And the second advantage is, that as these shoots develop in the following year one will not cover
the next below, since the 5 come forth on five different sides;
and the sixth which is above the first is at some distance. 416.
OF THE RAMIFICATIONS OF TREES AND THEIR FOLIAGE. The ramifications
of any tree, such as the elm, are wide and slender after the manner
of a hand with spread fingers, foreshortened.

And these are seen in the distribution [thus]: the lower portions are seen from above; and those
that are above are seen from below; and those in the middle, some
from below and some from above.

The upper part is the extreme [top] of this ramification and the middle portion is more foreshortened
than any other of those which are turned with their tips towards you. And of those parts of
the middle of the height of the tree, the longest will be towards the top of the tree and will
produce a ramification like the foliage of the common willow, which
grows on the banks of rivers.

Other ramifications are spherical, as those of such trees as put forth
their shoots and leaves in the order of the sixth being placed above
the first.

Others are thin and light like the willow and others.

417. You will see in the lower branches of the elder, which puts
forth leaves two and two placed crosswise [at right angles] one above
another, that if the stem rises straight up towards the sky this order
never fails; and its largest leaves are on the thickest part of the
stem and the smallest on the slenderest part, that is towards the
top.

But, to return to the lower branches, I say that the leaves on these
are placed on them crosswise like [those on] the upper branches; and
as, by the law of all leaves, they are compelled to turn their upper
surface towards the sky to catch the dew at night, it is necessary
that those so placed should twist round and no longer form a cross.

[Footnote: See Pl. XXVII, No. 5.] 418.

A leaf always turns its upper side towards the sky so that it may
the better receive, on all its surface, the dew which drops gently
from the atmosphere.

And these leaves are so distributed on the plant as that one shall cover the other as little
as possible, but shall lie alternately one above another as may be
seen in the ivy which covers the walls.

And this alternation serves two ends; that is, to leave intervals by which the air and sun may
penetrate between them. The 2nd reason is that the drops which fall from the first leaf may
fall onto the fourth or-- in other trees-- onto the sixth.

419. LIGHT ON BRANCHES AND LEAVES (420-- 422). 420. That part of the
body will be most illuminated which is hit by the luminous ray coming
between right angles.

[Footnote: See Pl. XXVIII, No. 1.] 421.

Young plants have more transparent leaves and a more lustrous bark
than old ones; and particularly the walnut is lighter coloured in
May than in September.

422.

OF THE ACCIDENTS OF COLOURING IN TREES. The accidents of colour in the foliage of trees are 4. That
is: shadow, light, lustre [reflected light] and transparency. OF THE VISIBILITY OF THESE ACCIDENTS.
These accidents of colour in the foliage of trees become confused at a great distance and that
which has most breadth [whether light or shade,& c.] will be most conspicuous. The proportions of
light and shade in a leaf (423-426). 423.

OF THE SHADOWS OF A LEAF. Sometimes a leaf has three accidents [of light] that is: shade, lustre [reflected
light] and transparency [transmitted light]. Thus, if the light were at n as regards the leaf
s, and the eye at m, it would see a in full light, b in shadow and c transparent. 424. A leaf
with a concave surface seen from the under side and up-side-down
will sometimes show itself as half in shade, and half transparent. Thus,
if o p is the leaf and the light m and the eye n, this will see o
in shadow because the light does not fall upon it between equal angles,
neither on the upper nor the under side, and p is lighted on the upper
side and the light is transmitted to its under side.

[Footnote: See Pl. XXVIII, No. 2, the upper sketch on the page. In the original they are drawn
in red chalk.] 425.

Although those leaves which have a polished surface are to a great
extent of the same colour on the right side and on the reverse, it
may happen that the side which is turned towards the atmosphere will
have something of the colour of the atmosphere; and it will seem to
have more of this colour of the atmosphere in proportion as the eye
is nearer to it and sees it more foreshortened.

And, without exception the shadows show as darker on the upper side
than on the lower, from the contrast offered by the high lights which
limit the shadows.

The under side of the leaf, although its colour may be in itself
the same as that of the upper side, shows a still finer colour-- a
colour that is green verging on yellow-- and this happens when the
leaf is placed between 426. the eye and the light which falls upon
it from the opposite side.

And its shadows are in the same positions as those were of the opposite
side.

Therefore, O Painter! when you do trees close at hand, remember that if the eye is almost under the
tree you will see its leaves [some] on the upper and [some] on the under side, and the upper side
will be bluer in proportion as they are seen more foreshortened,
and the same leaf sometimes shows part of the right side and part
of the under side, whence you must make it of two colours.

Of the transparency of leaves (427-429). 427. The shadows in transparent leaves seen from the under
side are the same shadows as there are on the right side of this leaf, they will show through
to the underside together with lights, but the lustre [reflected light] can never show through.
428. When one green has another [green] behind it, the lustre on the leaves and their transparent
[lights] show more strongly than in those which are [seen] against the brightness of the atmosphere.
And if the sun illuminates the leaves without their coming between
it and the eye and without the eye facing the sun, then the reflected
lights and the transparent lights are very strong.

It is very effective to show some branches which are low down and dark and so set off the illuminated
greens which are at some distance from the dark greens seen below. That part is darkest which is nearest
to the eye or which is farthest from the luminous atmosphere.

429.

Never paint leaves transparent to the sun, because they are confused;
and this is because on the transparency of one leaf will be seen the
shadow of another leaf which is above it.

This shadow has a distinct outline and a certain depth of shade and sometimes is [as much as] half
or a third of the leaf which is shaded; and consequently such an arrangement is very confused
and the imitation of it should be avoided. The light shines least through a leaf when it falls
upon it at an acute angle. The gradations of shade and colour in leaves (430-434). 430. The shadows of
plants are never black, for where the atmosphere penetrates there can never be utter darkness.
431.

If the light comes from m and the eye is at n the eye will see the colour of the leaves a b
all affected by the colour of m-- that is of the atmosphere; and b c will be seen from the under side
as transparent, with a beautiful green colour verging on yellow.

If m is the luminous body lighting up the leaf s all the eyes that see the under side of this
leaf will see it of a beautiful light green, being transparent. In very many cases the positions
of the leaves will be without shadow [or in full light], and their
under side will be transparent and the right side lustrous [reflecting
light].

432.

The willow and other similar trees, which have their boughs lopped every 3 or 4 years, put
forth very straight branches, and their shadow is about the middle where these boughs spring;
and towards the extreme ends they cast but little shade from having small leaves and few and slender
branches.

Hence the boughs which rise towards the sky will have but little shade and little relief; and the
branches which are at an angle from the horizon, downwards, spring from the dark part of the
shadow and grow thinner by degrees up to their ends, and these will be in strong relief, being
in gradations of light against a background of shadow.

That tree will have the least shadow which has the fewest branches
and few leaves.

433.

OF DARK LEAVES IN FRONT OF TRANSPARENT ONES. When the leaves are
interposed between the light and the eye, then that which is nearest
to the eye will be the darkest, and the most distant will be the
lightest, not being seen against the atmosphere; and this is seen
in the leaves which are away from the centre of the tree, that is
towards the light.

[Footnote: See Pl. XXVIII, No. 2, the lower sketch.] 434. OF THE LIGHTS ON DARK LEAVES. The
lights on such leaves which are darkest, will be most near to the
colour of the atmosphere that is reflected in them.

And the cause of this is that the light on the illuminated portion mingles with the dark hue
to compose a blue colour; and this light is produced by the blueness
of the atmosphere which is reflected in the smooth surface of these
leaves and adds to the blue hue which this light usually produces
when it falls on dark objects.

OF THE LIGHTS ON LEAVES OF A YELLOWISH GREEN. But leaves of a green verging on yellow when they
reflect the atmosphere do not produce a reflection verging on blue,
inasmuch as every thing which appears in a mirror takes some colour
from that mirror, hence the blue of the atmosphere being reflected
in the yellow of the leaf appears green, because blue and yellow mixed
together make a very fine green colour, therefore the lustre of light
leaves verging on yellow will be greenish yellow.

"Well," Pink summed up at last, "if he's hurt, out here, we're doing the right thing; and if
he ain't, he won't be there to have the laugh on us; so it's all right either way."

There was black shadow in the grassy swale where they found him. His horse had wandered off
and it was only the sure instinct of Irish that led them to the spot where he lay, a blacker
shadow in the darkness that a passing cloud had made. Just at first they thought him dead,
but when they lifted him he groaned and then spoke.

"It's one on me, this time," he said, and the throat of Irish pinched achingly together at
the sound of his voice, which had in it the note of pain he had been trying to forget.

After that he said nothing at all, because he was a senseless weight in their arms.

At daylight Irish was pounding vehemently the door of the White House and calling for the Little
Doctor. Andy lay stretched unconscious upon the porch beside him, and down in the bunk-house
the Happy Family was rubbing eyes and exclaiming profanely at the story Pink was telling.

"And here," finished Irish a couple of hours later, when he was talking the thing over with
the Little Doctor, "here's a note Take-Notice's girl gave me for him. I don't reckon there's
any good news in it, so maybe yuh better hold it out on him till he's got over the fever. I
guess we queered Andy a lot--but I'll ride over, soon as I can, and fix it up with her and
tell her he broke his leg, all right. Maybe," he finished optimistically, "she'll come over
to see him."

Irish kept his word, though he delayed until the next day; and the next day it was too late.
For the cabin of Take-Notice was closed and empty, and the black lamb and the white were nosing
unhappily their over-turned pan of mush, and bleating lonesomely. Irish waited a while and
started home again; rode into the trail and met Bert Rogers, who explained:

"Take-Notice was hauling his girl, trunk and all, to the depot," he told Irish. "I met 'em
just this side the lane. They aimed to catch the afternoon train, I reckon. She was going home,
Take-Notice told me."

So Irish rode thoughtfully back to the ranch and went straight to the White House where Andy
lay, meaning to break the news as carefully as he knew how.

Andy was lying in bed looking big-eyed at the ceiling, and in his hand was the note. He turned
his head and glanced indifferently at Irish.

"Yuh sure made a good job of it, didn't yuh?" he began calmly, though it was not the calm which
meant peace. "I was just about engaged to that girl. If it'll do yuh any good to know how nice
and thorough yuh busted everything up for me, read that." He held out the paper, and Irish
turned a guilty red when he took it.

  "Mr. Green: I have just been greatly entertained with the history
  of your very peculiar deeds and adventures, and I wish to say that
  I have discovered myself wholly lacking the sense of humor which
  is necessary to appreciate you.

  "As I am going home to-morrow, this is my only opportunity of
  letting you know how thoroughly I detest falsehood in any form.
  Yours truly,

  "MARY EDITH JOHNSON."

"Ain't yuh proud?" Andy inquired in a peculiar, tired voice. "Maybe I'm a horrible liar, all
right--but I never done anybody a dirty trick like that."

Irish might have said it was Jack Bates who did the mischief, but he did not. "We never knew
it was anything serious," he explained contritely. "On the dead, I'm sorry--"

"And that does a damned lot uh good--if she's gone!" Andy cut in, miserably.

"Oh, she's gone, all right. She went to-day," murmured Irish, and went out and shut the door
softly behind him.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOL'S GOLD.

Andy Green, unshaven as to face and haggard as to eyes, leaned upon his stout, willow stick
and looked gloomily away to the west. He was a good deal given to looking to the west, these
days when a leg new-healed kept him at the ranch, though habit and inclination would have sent
him riding fast and far over prairies untamed. Inaction comes hard when a man has lived his
life mostly in the open, doing those things which keep brain and muscle keyed alike to alertness
and leave no time for brooding.

If Andy had not broken his leg but had gone with the others on roundup, he would never have
spent the days glooming unavailingly because a girl with a blond pompadour and teasing eyes
had gone away and taken with her a false impression of his morals, and left behind her the
sting of a harsh judgment against which there seemed no appeal. As it was, he spent the time
going carefully over his past in self-justification, and in remembering every moment that he
had spent with Mary Johnson in those four weeks when she stayed with her father and petted
the black lamb and the white.

In his prejudiced view, he had never done anything to make a girl hate him. He had not always
told the truth--he would admit that with candid, gray eyes looking straight into your own--but
he had never lied to harm a man, which, it seemed to him, makes all the difference in the world.

If he could once have told her how he felt about it, and showed her how the wide West breeds
wider morals--he did not quite know how you would put these things, but he felt them very keenly.
He wanted to make her feel the difference; to see that little things do not count in a man's
life, after all, except when they affect him as a man when big things are wanted of him. A
little cowardice would count, for instance, because it would show that the man would fail at
the test; but a little lie? just a harmless sort of lie that was only a "josh" and was taken
as such by one's fellows? Andy was not analytic by nature, and he would have stumbled vaguely
among words to explain his views, but he felt very strongly the injustice of the girl's condemnation,
and he would scarcely speak to Jack Bates and Irish when they came around making overtures
for peace and goodwill.

"If she hadn't gone home so sudden, I could uh squared it all right," he told the Little Doctor,
whenever her sympathetic attitude won him to speech upon the subject.

"Yes, I believe you could," she would agree cheeringly. "If she's the right sort, and cared,
you could."

"She's the right sort--I know that," Andy would assert with much decision, though modesty forbade
his telling the Little Doctor that he was also sure she cared. She did care, if a girl's actions
count for anything, or her looks and smiles. Of course she cared! Else why did she rush off
home like that, a good month before she had intended to go? They had planned that Andy would
get a "lay-off" and go with her as far as Butte, because she would have to wait there several
hours, and Andy wanted to take her out to the Columbia Gardens and see if she didn't think
they were almost as nice as anything California could show. Then she had gone off without any
warning because Jack Bates and Irish had told her a lot of stuff about him, Andy; if that didn't
prove she cared, argued Andy to himself, what the dickens would you want for proof?

It was from thinking these things over and over while he lay in bed, that Andy formed the habit
of looking often towards the west when his hurt permitted him to hobble around the house. And
when a man looks often enough in any direction, his feet will, unless hindered by fate itself,
surely follow his gaze if you give them time enough.

It was the excursion rates advertised in a Great Falls paper that first put the idea consciously
into the brain of Andy. They seemed very cheap, and the time-limit was generous, and--San Jose
was not very far from San Francisco, the place named in the advertisement; and if he could
only see the girl and explain--It would be another month before he would be able to work, anyway,
and--A man might as well get rid of a hundred or so travelling, as to sit in a poker game and
watch it fade away, and he would really get more out of it. Anyhow, nobody need know where
he had gone. They could think he was just going to Butte. And he didn't give a darn if they
did find it out!

He limped back into the house and began inspecting, with much dissatisfaction, his wardrobe.
He would have to stake himself to new clothes--but he needed clothes, anyway, that fall. He
could get what he wanted in Butte, while he waited for the train to Ogden. Now that Andy had
made up his mind to go, he was in a great hurry and grudged the days, even the hours, that
must pass before he could see Mary Edith Johnson.

Not even the Little Doctor knew the truth, when Andy appeared next morning dressed for his
journey, ate a hasty and unsatisfactory breakfast and took the Old Man to one side with elaborate
carelessness and asked for a sum that made the Old Man blink. But no man might have charge
of the Happy Family for long without attaining that state of mental insulation which renders
a shock scientifically impossible. The Old Man wrote a check, twisted his mouth into a whimsical
knot and inquired mildly: "What's the brand of devilment this time, and how long's it going
to take yuh?" With a perceptible emphasis on the word this.

For probably the first time in his life Andy blushed and stammered over a lie, and before he
had got out more than two words, the Old Man seemed to understand the situation quite thoroughly.
He said "Oh, I see. Well, git a round-trip ticket and be dead sure yuh don't out-stay the limit."
He took out his pipe and filled it meditatively.

Andy blushed again--six weeks indoors had lightened the tan on his face so that his blushes
showed very plainly--and made desperate denial. "I'm only going up to Butte. But a fellow can't
have any kind of a time there without a fair-sized roll, and--I'll be back in two or three
weeks--soon as my leg's mended thorough. I--"

"Get along with yuh!" growled the Old Man, though his eyes twinkled. "Doggone it, don't yuh
lie to me. Think I was shipped in on the last train? A man don't git red in the face when he's
just merely headed for Butte. Why, doggone yuh--"

The last words had to serve for a farewell, because Andy was limping away as fast as he could,
and did not come back to the house again. He did not even tell the Little Doctor good-by, though
it was fifteen minutes before John Wedum, the ranchhand, had the team ready to drive Andy to
town, and he was one of the Little Doctor's most loyal subjects.

       *       *       *       *       *

Andy walked haltingly down a palm-shaded street in San Jose and wondered just what would be
the best and quickest way in which to find Mary Edith Johnson. Three ways were open to him:
He could hunt up all the Johnsons in town--there were three full pages of them in the directory,
as he remembered with a sigh--and find out which one was the right one; but San Jose, as he
had already discovered, was not a village, and he doubted if he could stand the walking. He
could visit all the real estate offices in town--and he was just beginning to realize that
there were almost as many real estate offices as there were Johnsons. And he could promenade
the streets in the hope of meeting her. But always there was the important fact to face--the
fact that San Jose is not a village.

He came upon a particularly shady spot and a bench placed invitingly. Andy sat down, eased
the new-healed leg out before him and rolled a cigarette. "This is going to be some different
from hunting a stray on the range," he told himself, with an air of deliberate cheerfulness.
"If I could get out and scurrup around on a hoss, and round her up that way--but this footing
it all over town is what grinds me." He drew a match along the under side of the bench and
held the blaze absently to the cigarette. "There was one thing--she told about an orange tree
right beside her mother's front gate, Maybe--" He looked around him hopefully. Just across
the street was a front gate, and beside it an orange tree; he knew because there were ripe
oranges hanging upon it. He started to rise, his blood jumping queerly, sat down again and
swore. "Every darned gate in town, just about, has got an orange tree stuck somewhere handy
by. I remember 'em now, damn 'em!"

Three cigarettes he smoked while he sat there. When he started on again his face was grimly
set toward the nearest business street. At the first real-estate sign he stopped, pulled together
his courage, and went in. A girl sat in a corner of the room before a typewriter. Andy saw
at a glance that her hair was too dark; murmured something and backed out. At the next place,
a man was crumpled into a big chair, reading a paper. Behind a high desk a typewriter clicked,
but Andy could not see the operator without going behind the railing, and he hesitated.

"Looking for a snap?" asked the man briskly, coming up from his crumpled state like a spring.

"Well, I was looking--"

"Now, here. It may not be what you want, but I'm just going to show you this proposition and
see what you think of it. It ain't going to last--somebody's goin' to snap it up before you
know it. Now, here--"

It was half an hour before Andy got away from that office, and he had not seen who was running
the machine behind the desk, even then. He had, however, spoken rather loudly and had informed
the man that he was from Montana, with no effect whatever upon the clicking. He had listened
patiently to the glowing description of several "good buys," and had escaped with difficulty
within ten minutes after hearing the unseen typist addressed as "Fern."

At the third place he merely looked in at the door and retreated hastily when the agent, like
a spider on the watch, started forward.

When he limped into the office of his hotel at six o'clock, Andy was ready to swear that every
foot of land in California was for sale, and that every man in San Jose was trying his best
to sell it and looked upon him, Andy Green, as a weak-minded millionaire who might be induced
to purchase. He had not visited all the places where they kept bulletin-boards covered with
yellowed placards abounding in large type and many fat exclamation points and the word ONLY
with a dollar mark immediately after. All? He had not visited half of them, or a third!

That night he dreamed feverishly of "five-room, modern cottages with bath," and of "ONLY $500.00
down and balance payable monthly," and of ten-acre "ranches" and five-acre "ranches"--he who
had been used to numbering acres by the thousand and to whom the word "ranch" meant miles of
wire fencing and beyond that miles of open!

It took all the longing he felt for Mary Johnson to drive him out the next morning and to turn
his face toward those placarded places which infested every street, but he went. He went with
eyes that glared hostility at every man who said "buy," and with chin set to stubborn purpose.
He meant to find Mary Edith Johnson, and he meant to find her without all California knowing
that he was looking for her. Not once had he mentioned her name, or showed that he cared whether
there was a typewriter in the office or whether it was a girl, man or Chinaman who clicked
the keys; and yet he knew exactly how every girl typist had her hair dressed, and what was
the color of her eyes.

At two o'clock, Andy stopped suddenly and stared down at a crack in the pavement, and his lips
moved in muttered speech. "She's worked three years in one of them places--and she 'thoroughly
detests falsehood in any form'! Hell!" Is exactly what he was saying out loud, on one of the
busiest streets in San Jose.

A policeman glanced at him, looked again and came slowly toward him. Andy took the hint and
moved on decorously to the next bulletin-board, but the revelation that had come to him there
in the street dulled somewhat his alertness, so that he came near committing himself to the
purchase of one of those ubiquitous "five-room, modern cottages with bath" before he realized
what he was doing and fled to the street again, on the pretense that he had to catch the car
which was just slowing down for that crossing.

He boarded the car, though he had no idea of where it was going, and fished in his pocket for
a nickel. And just when he was reaching up from the step where he stood clinging--reaching
over the flower-piled hat of a girl, to place the nickel in the outstretched palm of the conductor,
he heard for the first time in many weeks the name of Mary Johnson. A girl at his elbow was
asking the other: "What'n the world's become of Mary Johnson? She wasn't to the dance last
night, and it's the first one--"

Andy held his breath.

"Oh, Mame quit her place with Kelly and Gray, two weeks ago. She's gone to Santa Cruz and got
a place for the summer. Her and Lola Parsons went together, and--"

Andy took advantage of another crossing, and dropped off. He wanted to find out when the next
train left for Santa Cruz. It never occurred to him that there might be two Mary Johnsons in
the world, which was fortunate, perhaps; he wasted no time in hesitation, and so, within twenty
minutes, he was hearing the wheels of a fast train go clickety-click, clickety-click over the
switches in the suburbs of San Jose, and he was asking the conductor what time the train would
reach Santa Cruz, and was getting snubbed for his anxiety.

Santa Cruz, when he did reach it, seemed, on a superficial examination, to be almost as large
as San Jose, and the real-estate offices closer together and even more plentifully supplied
with modern cottages and bath--and the heart of him sank prophetically. For the first time
since he dropped off the street-car in San Jose, it seemed to him that Mary Johnson was quite
as far off, quite as unattainable as she had ever been.

He walked slowly up Pacific Avenue and watched the hurrying crowds, and wondered if chance
would be kind to him; if he should meet her on the street, perhaps. He did not want to canvass
all the real-estate offices in town. "It would take me till snow flies," he murmured dispiritedly,
forgetting that here was a place where snow never flew, and sought a hotel where they were
not "full to the eaves" as two complacent clerks had already told him.

At supper, he made friends with a genial-voiced insurance agent--the kind who does not insist
upon insuring your life whether you want it insured or not. The agent told Andy to call him
Jack and use him good and plenty--perhaps because something wistful and lonely in the gray
eyes of Andy appealed to him--and Andy took him at his word and was grateful. He discovered
what day of the week it was: Saturday, and that on the next day Santa Cruz would be "wide-open"
because of an excursion from Sacramento. Jack offered to help him lose himself in the crowd,
and again Andy was grateful. For the first time since leaving the Flying U he went to bed feeling
not utterly alone and friendless, and awoke pleasantly expectant. Friend Jack was to pilot
him down to the Casino at eleven, and he had incidentally made one prediction which stuck closely
to Andy, even in his sleep. Jack had assured him that the whole town would be at the beach;
and if the whole town were at the beach, why then, Mary would surely be somewhere in the crowd.
And if she were in the crowd--"If she's there, I'll sure get a line on her before night," Andy
told himself, with much assurance. "A fellow that's been in the habit of cutting any certain
brand of critter out of a big herd ought to be able to spot his girl in a crowd"--and he hummed
softly while he dressed.

The excursion train was already in town, and the esplanade was, looking down from Beach Hill,
a slow-moving river of hats, with splotches of bright colors and with an outer fringe of men
and women. "That's a good-sized trail-herd uh humans," Andy remarked, and the insurance agent
laughed appreciatively.

"You wait till you see them milling around on the board walk," he advised impressively. "If
you happen to be looking for anybody, you'll realize that there's some people scattered around
in your vicinity. I had a date with a girl, down here one Sunday during the season, and we
hunted each other from ten in the morning till ten at night and never got sight of each other."

Andy gave him a sidelong, suspicious glance, but friend Jack was evidently as innocent as he
looked, and so Andy limped silently down the hill to the Casino and wondered if fate were going
to cheat him at the last moment.

Once in the crowd, it was as Jack had told him it would be. He could not regard the moving
mass of humanity as individuals, though long living where men are few had fixed upon him the
habit. Now, although he observed far more than did Jack, he felt somewhat at a loss; the realization
that Mary Johnson might pass him unrecognized troubled him greatly. It did not once occur to
him that he, with his gray Stetson hat and his brown face and keen eyes and tall, straight-backed
figure, looked not at all like the thousands of men all around him, so that many eyes turned
to give him another glance when he passed. Mary Johnson must be unobserving in the extreme
if she failed to know him, once she glimpsed him in the crowd.

Somewhere near one o'clock he lost Jack completely, and drifted aimlessly alone. Jack had been
hailed by a friend, had stopped for a minute to talk, and several hundred men, women and children
had come between him and Andy, pushing and crowding and surging, because a band had started
playing somewhere. Andy got down the steps and out upon the sand, and Jack was thereafter but
a memory. He found the loose sand hard walking with his lame leg, and almost as crowded as
the promenade, and as he stood for a minute looking up at the board walk above him, it occurred
to him that if he could get somewhere and stay there long enough, every human being at the
Casino would eventually pass by him. He went up the steps again and worked his way along the
edge of the walk until he found a vacant spot on the railing and sat grimly down upon it to wait.

Many cigarettes he smoked while he roosted there, watching until the eyes of him ached with
the eternal panorama of faces that were strange. Many times he started eagerly because he glimpsed
a fluffy, blond pompadour with blue eyes beneath, and fancied for an instant that it was Mary.

Then, when he was speculating upon the advisability of following the stream of people that
flowed out upon the pleasure pier, Mary passed by so close that her skirt brushed his toes;
passed him by, and he sat there like a paralytic and let her go. And in the heart of him was
a queer, heavy throb that he did not in the least understand.

She was dressed in blue linen with heavy, white lace in patches here and there, and she had
a big, white hat tilted back from her face and a long white plume drooping to one shoulder.
Another girl was with her, and a man--a man with dented panama hat and pink cheeks and a white
waistcoat and tan shoes; a man whom Andy suddenly hated most unreasonably.

When they were all but lost in the crowd, Andy got down, gripped his cane vindictively and
followed. After all, the man was walking beside the other girl, and not beside Mary--and the
reflection brought much solace. With the nodding, white feather to guide him, he followed them
down the walk, lost them for a second, saw them turn in at the wide-open doors of the natatorium,
saw them pause there, just inside. Then a huge woman pushed before him, stood there and narrowed
his range of vision down to her own generous hat with its huge roses, and when he had edged
past her the three were gone.

Andy waited, comforted by the knowledge that they had not come out, until the minutes passed
his patience and he went in, searched the gallery unavailingly, came out again and wandered
on dispiritedly to the pleasure pier. There, leaning over the rail, he saw her again almost
beneath him in the sand, scantily clad in a bathing suit. The man, still more scantily clad,
was trying to coax her into the water and she was hanging back and laughing a good deal, with
an occasional squeal.

Andy leaned rather heavily upon the railing and watched her gloweringly, incredulously. Custom
has much to do with a man's (or a woman's) idea of propriety, and one Andrew Green had for
long been unaccustomed to the sight of nice young women disporting themselves thus in so public
a place. He could not reconcile it with the girl as he had known her in her father's cabin,
and he was not at all sure that he wanted to do so.

He was just turning gloomily away when she glanced up, saw him and waved her hand. "Hello,
Andy," she called gaily. "Come on down and take a swim, why don't you?"

Andy, looking reproachfully into her upturned face, shook his head. "I can't," he told her.
"I'm lame yet." It was not at all what he had meant to say, any more than this was the meeting
he had dreamed about. He resented both with inner rage.

"Oh. When did you come?" she asked casually, and was whisked away by the man before Andy could
tell her. The other girl was there also, and the three ran gleefully down to meet a roller
larger than the others had been; met it, were washed, with much screaming and laughter, back
to shore and stood there dripping. Andy glared down upon them and longed for the privilege
of drowning the fellow.

"We're going up into the plunge," called Mary. "Come on. I'll see you, when I come out." They
scampered away, and he, calling himself many kinds of fool, followed.

In the plunge, Andy was still more at a disadvantage, for since he was a spectator, a huge
sign informed him that he must go up stairs. He went up with much difficulty into the gallery,
found himself a seat next the rail and searched long for Mary among the bathers below. He would
never have believed that he would fail to know her at sight, but with fifty women, more or
less, dressed exactly alike and with ugly rubber caps pulled down to eyebrows and ears, recognition
must necessarily be slow.

While he leaned and stared, an avalanche of squeals came precipitately down the great slide;
struck the water and was transformed to gurgling screams, and then heads came bobbing to the
surface--three heads, and one of them was Mary's. She swept the water from her eyes, looked
up and saw him, waved her hand and scrambled rather ungracefully over the rail in her wet,
clinging suit. The others followed, the man trotting at her heels and calling something after her.

Andy, his brows pulled down over unhappy eyes, glared fixedly up at the top of the slide. In
a minute they appeared, held gesticulating counsel, wavered and came down together, upon their
stomachs. The strange girl was in the lead, with Mary next holding to the girl's feet. Behind
her slid the man, gripping tightly the ankles of Mary. Andy's teeth set savagely together,
though he saw that others were doing exactly the same; old women, young women, girls, men and
boys came hurtling down the big slide, singly, in couples, in three and fours.

The spectacle began to fascinate him, so that for a minute or two he could forget Mary and
the man. There was a roar of voices, the barking as of seals, screams, laughter and much splashing.
Men and women dove from the sides like startled frogs into a pond; they swam, floated and stood
panting along the walls; swung from the trapeze (Andy, remembering his career with the circus,
when he was "André de Gréno," Champion Bareback Rider of the Western Hemisphere, wished that
his leg was well so that he could show them a few things about that trapeze business) and troubled
the waters with much splashing. He could not keep Mary always in view, but when he did get
sight of her she seemed to be having a very good time, and not to be worrying in the least
about him and his sins.

Twice Andy Green half rose from his seat, meaning to leave the plunge, the Casino and the whole
merry-making crowd; but each time he settled back, telling himself that he hated a quitter,
and that he guessed he'd buy a few more chips and stay in the game.

It seemed a long time before Mary finally emerged in the blue linen and the white hat, but
Andy was waiting doggedly at the entrance and took his place beside her, forcing the man to
walk beside the girl whom Mary introduced as Lola Parsons. The man's name was Roberts, but
the girls called him Freddie, and he seemed composed mostly of a self-satisfied smile and the
latest fad in male attire. Andy set himself to the task of "cutting Mary out of the main herd"
so that he might talk with her. Thus it happened that, failing a secluded spot in the immediate
neighborhood of the Casino, which buzzed like a disturbed hive of gigantic bees, Mary presently
found herself on a car that was clanging its signal of departure, and there was no sign of
Freddie and Lola Parsons.

"We lost 'em, back there," Andy told her calmly when she inquired. "And as to where we're going,
I don't know; as far as this lightning-wagon will take us."

"This car goes clear out to the Cliffs," Mary said discouragingly.

"All right. We're going out to the cliffs, then," Andy smiled blandly down upon the nodding,
white feather in her hat.

"But I promised Lola and Freddie--"

"Oh, that's all right. I'll take the blame. Were yuh surprised to see me here?"

"Why should I be? Everybody comes to Santa Cruz, sooner or later."

"I came sooner," said Andy, trying to meet her eye. He wanted to bring the conversation to
themselves, so that he might explain and justify himself, and win forgiveness for his sins.

While they walked along the cliffs he tried, and going home he had not given up the attempt.
But afterward, when he could sit down quietly and think, he was forced to admit that he had
not succeeded very well. It seemed to him that, while Mary still liked him and was quite ready
to be friends, she had forgotten just why she had so suddenly left Montana. She was sorry he
had broken his leg, but in the same breath, almost, she told him of such a narrow escape that
Freddie had last week, when an auto nearly ran him down. Andy regretted keenly that it had not.

He had mentioned Irish and Jack Bates, meaning to refute the tales they had told of him, and
she had asked about the black lamb and the white, and then had told him that he must go out
to the whistling buoy and see the real whale they had anchored out there, and related with
much detail how Freddie had taken her and Lola out, and how the water was so rough she got
seasick, and a wave splashed over and ruined Freddie's new summer suit, that spotted dreadfully;
it wasn't, she remarked, a durable color. She hoped Andy would stay a month or two, though
the "season" was about over. She knew he would just love the plunge and the surf-bathing, and
there was going to be a boomers' barbacue up at the Big Trees in two weeks--and it would seem
like home to him, seeing a cow roasted whole! She did love Montana, and she hoped he brought
his chaps and spurs along, for she had told Lola so much about him, and she wanted Lola to
see him in his Wild West clothes.

All this should have pleased Andy very much. She had not grown cold, and her eyes were quite
as teasing and her smiles as luring as before. She did not even lay personal claim to Freddie,
that he should be jealous. When she spoke of Freddie, his name was linked with Lola Parsons,
and Andy could not glean that she had ever gone anywhere alone with him. She had seemed anxious
that he should enjoy his vacation to the limit, and had mentioned three or four places that
he must surely see, and informed him three times that she was "off" at five every evening,
and could show him around.

They had dined together at a café, and had gone back to the Casino for the band concert, and
they had not been interrupted by meeting Lola Parsons and Freddie, and she had given him a
very cordial good-night when they parted on the steps of her boarding house at eleven.

So there was absolutely no reason for the mood Andy was in when he accepted his key from the
hotel clerk and went up to his room. For a man who has traveled more than a thousand miles
in search of the girl he had dreamed of o'nights, and who had found her and had been properly
welcomed, he was distinctly gloomy. He sat down by the open window and smoked four cigarettes,
said "Damn Freddy!" three times and with added emphasis each time, though he knew very well
that Freddie had nothing to do with it, and then went to bed.

In the morning he felt better, and went out by himself to the cliffs where they had been before,
and sat down on a hummock covered with short grass, and watched the great unrest of the ocean,
and wondered where the Flying U wagons would be camping, that night. Somehow, the wide reach
of water reminded him of the prairie; the rolling billows were like many, many cattle milling
restlessly in a vast herd and tossing white heads and horns upward. Below him, the pounding
surf was to him the bellowing of a thirsty herd corralled.

"This is sure all right," he approved, rousing a little. "It's almost as good as sitting up
on a pinnacle and looking out over the range. If I had a good hoss, and my riding outfit, and
could get out there and go to work cutting-out them white-caps and hazing 'em up here on a
run, it wouldn't be so poor. By gracious, this is worth the trip, all right." It never occurred
to Andy that there was anything strange in the remark, or that he sat there because it dulled
the heavy ache that had been his since yesterday--the ache of finding what he had sought, and
finding with it disillusionment.

Till hunger drove him away he stayed, and his dreams were of the wide land he had left. When
he again walked down Pacific Avenue the hall clock struck four, and after he had eaten he looked
up at it and saw that it lacked but fifteen minutes of five.

"I'm supposed to meet her when she quits work," he remembered, "and Lola and Freddie will go
to the plunge with us." He stopped and stared in at the window of a curio store. "Say, that's
a dandy Navajo blanket," he murmured. "It would be out-uh-sight for a saddle blanket." He started
on, hesitated and went back. "I've got time enough to get it," he explained to himself. He
went in, bought the blanket and two Mexican serapes that caught his fancy, tucked the bundle
under his arm and started down the street toward the office where Mary worked. It was just
two minutes to five.

He got almost to the door--so near that his toe struck against a corner of the belabelled bulletin
board--when a sudden revulsion swept his desires back like a huge wave. He stood a second irresolutely
and then turned back. "Aw--hell! What's the use?" he muttered.

The clock was just on the last stroke of five when he went up to the clerk in his hotel. "Say,
when does the next train pull out?--I don't give a darn in what direction," he wanted to know.
When the clerk told him seven-thirty, he grinned and became undignifiedly loquacious.

"I want to show yuh a couple of dandy serapes I just glommed, down street," he said, and rolled
the bundle open upon the desk. "Ain't they a couple uh beauts? I got 'em for two uh my friends;
they done me a big favor, a month or two ago, and I wanted to kinda square the deal. That's
why I got 'em just alike. Yes, you bet they're peaches; yuh can't get 'em like this in Montana.
The boys'll sure appreciate 'em." He retied the bundle, took his room-key from the hand of
the smiling clerk and started up the stairway, humming a tune under his breath as he went.

At the first turn he stopped and looked back. "Send the bell-hop up to wake me at seven," he
called down to the clerk. "I'm going to take a much-needed nap--and it'll be all your life's
worth to let me miss that train!"

       *       *       *       *       *

LORDS OF THE POTS AND PANS

The camp of the Flying U, snuggled just within the wide-flung arms of an unnamed coulee with
a pebbly-bottomed creek running across its front, looked picturesque and peaceful--from a distance.
Disenchantment lay in wait for him who strayed close enough to hear the wrangling in the cook-tent,
however, or who followed Slim to where he slumped bulkily down into the shade of a willow fifty
yards or so from camp--a willow where Pink, Weary, Andy Green and Irish were lying sprawled
and smoking comfortably.

Slim grunted and moved away from a grass-hidden rock that was gouging him in the back. "By
golly, things is getting pretty raw around this camp," he growled, by way of lifting the safety-valve
of his anger. "I'd like to know when that darned grub-spoiler bought into the outfit, anyhow.
He's been trying to run it to suit himself all spring--and if he keeps on, by golly, he'll
be firing the wagon-boss and giving all the orders himself!"

It would seem that sympathy should be offered him; as if the pause he made plainly hinted that
it was expected. Andy Green rolled over and sent him a friendly glance just to hearten him a bit.

"We were listening to the noise of battle," he observed, "and we were going over, in a minute,
to carry off the dead. You had a kinda animated discussion over something, didn't yuh?" Andy
was on his good behavior, as he had been for a month. His treatment of his fellows lately was
little short of angelic. His tone soothed Slim to the point where he could voice his woe.

"Well, by golly, I guess he knows what I think of him, or pretty near. I've stood a lot from
Patsy, off and on, and I've took just about all I'm going to. It's got so yuh can't get nothing
to eat, hardly, when yuh ride in late, unless yuh fight for it. Why, by golly, I caught him
just as he was going to empty out the coffee-boiler--and he knew blamed well I hadn't eat.
He'd left everything go cold, and he was packing away the grub like he was late breaking camp
and had a forty mile drive before dinner, by golly! I just did save myself some coffee, and
that was all--but it was cold as that creek, and--" Habit impelled him to stop there long enough
to run his tongue along the edge of a half-rolled cigarette, and accident caused his eyes to
catch the amused quirk on the lips of Pink and Irish, and the laughing glance they exchanged.
Possibly if he could have looked in all directions at the same time he would have been able
to detect signs of mirth on the faces of the others as well; for Slim's grievances never seemed
to be taken seriously by his companions--which is the price which one must pay for having a
body shaped like Santa Claus and a face copied after our old friend in the moon.

"Well, by golly, maybe it's funny--but I took notice yuh done some yowling, both uh yuh, the
other day when yuh didn't get no pie," he snorted, lighting his cigarette with unsteady fingers.

"We wasn't laughing at that," lied Pink pacifically.

"And then, by golly, the old devil lied to me and said there wasn't no pie left," went on Slim
complainingly, his memory stirred by the taunt he had himself given. "But I wouldn't take his
word for a thing if I knew it was so; I went on a still-hunt around that tent on my own hook,
and I found a pie--a whole pie, by golly!--cached away under an empty flour-sack behind the
stove! That," he added, staring, round-eyed, at the group, "that there was right where me and
Patsy mixed. The lying old devil said he never knew a thing about it being there at all."

Pink turned his head cautiously so that his eyes met the eyes of Andy Green. The two had been
at some pains to place that pie in a safe place so that they might be sure of something appetizing
when they came in from standing guard that night, but neither seemed to think it necessary
to proclaim the fact and clear Patsy.

"I'll bet yuh didn't do a thing to the pie when yuh did find it?" Pink half questioned, more
anxious than he would have owned.

"By golly, I eat the whole thing and I cussed Patsy between every mouthful!" boasted Slim,
almost in a good-humor again. "I sure got the old boy stirred up; I left him swearin' Dutch
cuss-words that sounded like he was peevish. But I'll betche he won't throw out the coffee
till I've had what I want after this, by golly!"

"Happy Jack is out yet," Weary observed after a sympathetic silence. "You oughtn't to have
put Patsy on the fight till everybody was filled up, Slim. Happy's liable to go to bed with
an empty tummy, if yuh don't ride out and warn him to approach easy. Listen over there!"

From where they lay, so still was the air and so incensed was Patsy, they could hear plainly
the rumbling of his wrath while he talked to himself over the dishwashing. When he appeared
at the corner of the tent or plodded out toward the front of the wagon, his heavy tread and
stiff neck proclaimed eloquently the mood he was in. They watched and listened and were secretly
rather glad they were fed and so need not face the storm which Slim had raised; for Patsy thoroughly
roused was very much like an angry bull: till his rage cooled he would charge whoever approached
him, absolutely blind to consequences.

"Well, I ain't going to put nobody next," Slim asserted. "Happy's got to take chances, same
as I did. And while we're on the subject, Patsy was on the prod before I struck camp, or he
wouldn't uh acted the way he done. Somebody else riled him up, by golly--I never."

"Well, you sure did put the finishing touches to him," contended Irish, guiltily aware that
he himself was originally responsible; for Patsy never had liked Irish very well because of
certain incidents connected with his introduction to Weary's double. Patsy never could quite
forget, though he might forgive, and resentment lay always close to the surface of his mood
when Irish was near.

Happy Jack, hungry and quite unconscious that he was riding straight into the trail of trouble,
galloped around a ragged point of service-berry bushes, stopped with a lurch at the prostrate
corral and unsaddled hastily. Those in the shade of the willow watched him, their very silence
proclaiming loudly their interest. They might have warned him by a word, but they did not;
for Happy Jack was never eager to heed warnings or to take advice, preferring always to abide
by the rule of opposites. Stiff-legged from long riding, the knees of his old, leather chaps
bulging out in transient simulation of bowed limbs, he came clanking down upon the cook-tent
with no thought but to ease his hunger.

Those who watched saw him stoop and thrust his head into the tent, heard a bellow and saw him
back out hastily. They chuckled unfeelingly and strained ears to miss no word of what would follow.

"Aw, gwan!" Happy Jack expostulated, not yet angry. "I got here quick as I could--and I ain't
heard nothing about no new laws uh getting here when the whistle blows. Gimme what there is,
anyhow."

Some sentences followed which, because of guttural tones and German accent emphasized by excitement,
were not quite coherent to the listeners. However, they did not feel at all mystified as to
his meaning--knowing Patsy as they did.

"Aw, come off! Somebody must uh slipped yuh a two-gallon jug uh something. I've rode the range
about as long as you've cooked on it, and I never knowed a man to go without his supper yet,
just because he come in late. I betche yuh dassent stand and say that before Chip, yuh blamed
old Dutch--" Just there, Happy Jack dodged and escaped getting more than a third of the basin
of water which came splashing out of the tent.

The group under the willows could no longer lie at ease while they listened; they jumped up
and moved closer, just as a crowd always does surge nearer and nearer to an exciting centre.
They did not, however, interfere by word or deed.

"If yuh wasn't just about ready t' die of old age and general cussedness," stormed Happy Jack,
"I'd just about kill yuh for that." This, however, is a revised version and not intended to
be exact. "I want my supper, and I want it blame quick, too, or there'll be a dead Dutchman
in camp. No, yuh don't! You git out uh that tent and lemme git in, or--" Happy Jack had the
axe in his hand by then, and he swung it fearsomely and permitted the gesture to round out
his sentence.

Perhaps there would have been something more than words between them, for even a Happy Jack
may be goaded too far when he is hungry; but Chip, who had been washing out some handkerchiefs
down by the creek, heard the row and came up, squeezing a ball of wet muslin on the way. He
did not say much when he arrived, and he did not do anything more threatening than hang the
handkerchiefs over the guy-ropes to dry, tying the corners to keep the wind from whipping them
away up the coulee, but the result was satisfying--to Happy Jack, at least. He ate and was
filled, and Patsy retired from the fray, sullenly owning defeat for that time at least. He
went up the creek out of sight from camp, and he stayed there until the dusk was so thick that
his big, white-aproned form was barely distinguishable in the gloom when he returned.

At daylight he was his old self, except that he was perhaps a trifle gruff when he spoke and
a good deal inclined to silence, and harmony came and abode for a season with the Flying U.

Patsy had for years cooked for Jim Whitmore and his "outfit"; so many years it was that memory
of the number was never exact, and even the Old Man would have been compelled to preface the
number with a few minutes of meditation and a "Lemme see, now; Patsy's been cooking for me--eighty-six
was that hard winter, and he come the spring--no, the fall before that. I know because he like
to froze before we got the mess-house chinked up good--I'll be doggoned if Patsy ain't gitting
old!" That was it, perhaps: Patsy was getting old. And old age does not often sweeten one's
temper, if you notice. Those angelic old men and old ladies have nearly all been immortalized
in stories and songs, and the unsung remainder have nerves and notions and rheumatism and tongues
sharpened by all the disappointments and sorrows of their long lives.

Patsy never had been angelic; he had always been the victim of more or less ill-timed humor
on the part of the Happy Family, and the victim of hunger-sharpened tempers as well. He had
always grumbled and rumbled Dutch profanity when they goaded him too hard, and his amiability
had ever expressed itself in juicy pies and puddings rather than in words. On this roundup,
however, he was not often amiable and he was nearly always rumbling to himself. More than that,
he was becoming resentful of extra work and bother and he sometimes permitted his resentment
to carry him farther than was wise.

To quarrel with Patsy was rapidly becoming the fashion, and to gossip about him and his faults
was already a habit; a habit indulged in too freely, perhaps, for the good of the camp. Isolation
from the world brings small things into greater prominence than is normally their due, and
large troubles are born of very small irritations.

For two days there was peace of a sort, and then Big Medicine, having eaten no dinner because
of a headache, rode into camp about three o'clock and headed straight for the mess-wagon, quite
as if he had a right that must not be questioned. Custom did indeed warrant him in lunching
without the ceremony of asking leave of the cook, for Patsy even in his most unpleasant moods
had never until lately tried to stop anyone from eating when he was hungry.

On this day, however, Big Medicine unthinkingly cut into a fresh-baked pie set out to cool.
There were other pies, and in cutting one Big Medicine was supported by precedent; but Patsy
chose to consider it an affront and snatched the pie from under Big Medicine's very nose.

"You fellers vot iss always gobbling yet, you iss quit it alreatty!" rumbled Patsy, bearing
the pie into the tent with Big Medicine's knife still lying buried in the lately released juice.
"I vork und vork mine head off keeping you fellers filled oop tree times a day alreatty; I
not vork und vork to feed you effery hour, py cosh. You go mitout till supper iss reaty for
you yet."

Big Medicine, his frog-like eyes standing out from his sun-reddened face, stared agape. "Well,
by cripes!" He hesitated, looking about him; but whether his search was for more pie or for
moral support he did not say. Truth to tell, there was plenty of both. He reached for another
pie and another knife, and he grinned his wide grin at Irish, who had just come up. "Dutchy's
trying to run a whizzer," he remarked, cutting a defiant gash clean across the second pie.
"What do yuh know about that?"

"He's often took that way," said Irish soothingly. "You don't want all that pie--give me about
half of it."

Big Medicine, his mouth too full for coherent utterance, waved his hand and his knife toward
the shelf at the back of the mess-wagon where three more pies sat steaming in the shade. "Help
yourself," he invited juicily when he could speak.

Those familiar with camp life in the summer have perhaps observed the miraculous manner in
which a million or so "yellow-jackets" will come swarming around when one opens a can of fruit
or uncovers the sugar jar. It was like that. Irish helped himself without any hesitation whatever,
and he had not taken a mouthful before Happy Jack, Weary and Pink were buzzing around for all
the world like the "yellow-jackets" mentioned before. Patsy buzzed also, but no one paid the
slightest attention until the last mouthful of the last pie was placed in retirement where
it would be most appreciated. Then Weary became aware of Patsy and his wrath, and turned to
him pacifically.

"Oh, yuh don't want to worry none about the pie," he smiled winningly at him. "Mamma! How do
you expect to keep pies around this camp when yuh go right on making such good ones? Yuh hadn't
ought to be such a crackajack of a cook, Patsy, if you don't want folks to eat themselves sick."

If any man among them could have soothed Patsy, Weary would certainly have been the man; for
next to Chip he was Patsy's favorite. To say that he failed is only one way of making plain
how great was Patsy's indignation.

"Aw, yuh made 'em to be eat, didn't yuh?" argued Happy Jack. "What difference does it make
whether we eat 'em now or two hours from now?"

Patsy tried to tell them the difference. He called his hands and his head to help his rage-tangled
tongue and he managed to make himself very well understood. They did not argue the fine point
of gastronomic ethics which he raised, though they felt that his position was not unassailable
and his ultimate victory not assured.

Instead, they peered into boxes and cans which were covered, gleaned a whole box of seeded
raisins and some shredded cocoanut just to tease him and retired to wrangle ostentatiously
over their treasure trove in the shade of the bed-tent, leaving Patsy to his anger and his
empty tins.

Other men straggled in, drifted with the tide of their appetites to the cook-tent, hovered
there briefly and retired vanquished and still hungry. They invariably came over to the little
group which was munching raisins and cocoanut and asked accusing questions. What was the matter
with Patsy? Who had put him on the fight like that? and other inquiries upon the same subject.

Just because they were all lying around camp with nothing to do but eat, Patsy was late with
his supper that night. It would seem that he dallied purposely and revengefully, and though
the Happy Family flung at him taunts and hurry-up orders, it is significant that they shouted
from a distance and avoided coming to close quarters.

Just how and when they began their foolish little game of imitation broncho-fighting does not
matter. When work did not press and red blood bubbled they frequently indulged in "rough-riding"
one another to the tune of much taunting and many a "Bet yuh can't pitch me off!" Before supper
was called they were hard at it and they quite forgot Patsy.

"I'll give any man a dollar that can ride me straight up, by cripes!" bellowed Big Medicine,
going down upon all fours by way of invitation.

"Easy money, and mine from the start!" retorted Irish and immediately straddled Big Medicine's
back. Horses and riders pantingly gave over their own exertions and got out of the way, for
Big Medicine played bronk as he did everything else: with all his heart and soul and muscles,
and since he was strong as a bull, riding him promised much in the way of excitement.

"Yuh can hold on by my collar, but if yuh choke me down I'll murder yuh in cold blood," he
warned Irish before he started. "And don't yuh dig your heels in my ribs neither, or I'm liable
to bust every bone yuh got to your name. I'm ticklish, by cripes!"

"I'll ride yuh with my arms folded if yuh say so," Irish offered generously. "Move, you snail!"
He struck Big Medicine spectacularly with his hat, yelled at the top of his voice and the riding
began immediately and tumultuously.

It is very difficult to describe accurately and effectively the evolutions of a horse when
he "pitches" his worst and hardest. It is still more difficult to set down in words the gyrations
of a man when he is playing that he is a broncho and is trying to dislodge the fellow upon
his back. Big Medicine reared and kicked and bellowed and snorted. He came down upon a small
"pin-cushion" cactus and was obliged to call a recess while he extracted three cactus spines
from his knee with his smallest knife-blade and some profanity.

He rolled down his trousers' leg, closed his knife and tossed it to Pink for fear he might
lose it, examined critically a patch of grass to make sure there were no more cacti hidden
there and bawled: "Come on, now, I'll sure give yuh a run for your money this time, by cripes!"
and began all over again.

How human muscles can bear the strain he put upon his own must be always something of a mystery.
He described curves in the air which would sound incredible; he "swapped ends" with all the
ease of a real fighting broncho and came near sending Irish off more than once. Insensibly
he neared the cook-tent, where Patsy so far forgot himself as to stand just without the lifted
flap and watch the fun with sour interest.

"Ah-h want yuh!" yelled Big Medicine, quite purple but far from surrender, and gave a leap.

"Go get me!" shouted Irish, whipping down the sides of his mount with his hat.

Big Medicine answered the taunt by a queer, twisted plunge which he had saved for the last.
It brought Irish spread-eagling over his head, and it landed him fairly in the middle of Patsy's
great pan of soft bread "sponge"--and landed him upon his head into the bargain. Irish wriggled
there a moment and came up absolutely unrecognizable and a good deal dazed. Big Medicine rolled
helplessly in the grass, laughing his big, bellowing laugh.

It was straight into that laugh and the great mouth from where it issued, that Patsy, beside
himself with rage at the accident, deposited all the soft dough which was not clinging to the
head and face of Irish. He was not content with that. While the Happy Family roared appreciation
of the spectacle, Patsy returned with a kettle of meat and tried to land that neatly upon the
dough.

"Py cosh, if dat iss der vay you wants your grub, py cosh, dat iss der vay you gets it alreatty!"
he brought the coffee-boiler and threw that also at the two, and followed it with a big basin
of stewed corn.

Irish, all dough as he was, went for him blindly and grappled with him, and it was upon this
turbulent scene which Chip looked first when he rode up. The Happy Family crowded around him
gasping and tried to explain.

"They were doing some rough-riding--"

"By golly, Patsy no business to set his bread dough on the ground!"

"He's throwed away all the supper there is, and I betche--"

"Mamma! Yuh sure missed it, Chip. You ought--"

"By cripes, if that Dutch--"

"Break away there, Irish!" shouted Chip, dismounting hurriedly. "Has it got so you must fight
an old man like that?"

"Py cosh, I'll fight mit him alreatty! I'll fight mit any mans vat shpoils mine bread. Maybe
I'm old yet but I ain't dead yet und I could fight--" The words came disjointedly, mere punctuation
points to his wild sparring.

It was plain that Irish, furious though he was, was trying not to hurt Patsy very much; but
it took four men to separate them for all that. When they had dragged Irish perforce down to
the creek by which they had camped, and had yelled to Big Medicine to come on and feed the
fish, quiet should have been restored--but it was not.

Patsy was, in American parlance, running amuck. He was jumbling three languages together into
an indistinguishable tumult of sound and he was emptying the cook-tent of everything which
his stout, German muscles could fling from it. Not a thing did he leave that was eatable and
the dishes within his reach he scattered recklessly to all the winds of heaven. When one venturesome
soul after another approached to calm him, he found it expedient to duck and run to cover.
Patsy's aim was terribly exact.

The Happy Family, under cover or at a safe distance from the hurtling pans, cans and stove
wood, caressed sundry bumps and waited meekly. Irish and Big Medicine, once more disclosing
the features God had given them, returned by a circuitous route and joined their fellows.

"Look at 'em over there--he's emptying every grain uh rolled oats on the ground!" Happy Jack
was a "mush-fiend." "Somebody better go over and stop 'im--"

"You ain't tied down," suggested Cal Emmett rather pointedly, and Happy Jack said no more.

Chip, usually so incisively clear as to his intentions and his duties, waited irresolutely
and dodged missiles along with the rest of them. When Patsy subsided for the very good reason
that there was nothing else which he could throw out, Chip took the matter up with him and
told him quite plainly some of the duties of a cook, a few of his privileges and all of his
limitations. The result, however, was not quite what he expected. Patsy would not even listen.

"Py cosh, I not stand for dose poys no more," he declared, wagging his head with its shiny
crown and the fringe of grizzled hair around the back. "I not cook grub for dat Irish und dat
Big Medicine und Happy Jack und all dose vat cooms und eats mine pies und shpoils mine pread
und makes deirselves fools all der time. If dose fellers shtay on dis camp I quits him alreatty."
To make the bluff convincing he untied his apron, threw it spitefully upon the ground and stamped
upon it clumsily, like a maddened elephant.

"Well, quit then!" Chip was fast losing his own temper, what with the heat and his hunger and
a general distaste for camp troubles. "This jangling has got to stop right here. We've had
about enough of it in the last month. If you can't cook for the outfit peaceably--" He did
not finish the sentence, or if he did the distance muffled the words, for he was leading his
horse back to the vicinity of the rope corral that he might unsaddle and turn him loose.

He heard several voices muttering angrily, but his wrath was ever of the stiff-necked variety
so that he would not look around to see what was the matter. The tumult grew, however, until
when he did turn he saw Patsy stalking off across the prairie with his hat on and his coat
folded neatly over his arm, and Irish and Big Medicine fighting wickedly in the open space
between the two tents. He finished unsaddling and then went stalking over to quell this latest
development.

"They're trying to find out who was to blame," Weary informed him when he was quite close.
"Bud hasn't got much tact: he called Irish a dough-head. Irish didn't think it was true humor,
and he hit Bud on the nose. He claims that Bud pitched him into that dishpan uh dough with
malice aforethought. Better let 'em argue the point to a finish, now they're started. It's
black eyes for the peacemaker--you believe me."

While the dusk folded them close and the nighthawks swooped from afar, the Happy Family gathered
round and watched them fight. Chip and Weary thoughtfully went into the bed-tent and got the
guns which were stowed away in the beds of the combatants, so that when their anger reached
the killing point they must let it bubble harmlessly until the fires which fed it went cold.
Which was exceeding wise of the two, for Big Medicine and Irish did get to that very point
and raged all over the camp because they could not shoot each other.

The hottest battle must perforce end sometime, and so the camp of the Flying U did at last
settle into some semblance of calm. Irish rolled his bed, saddled a horse and rode off toward
town, quite as if he were going for good and all. Big Medicine went down to the creek for the
second time that evening to wash away the marks of strife, and when he returned he went straight
to bed without a word to anyone. Patsy was gone, no man knew whither, and the cook-tent was
as nearly wrecked as might be.

"Makes me think uh that time we had the ringtailed tiger in camp," sighed Andy Green, shaking
sand out of the teakettle so that it could be refilled.

"By golly, I'd ruther have a whole band uh tagers than this fighting bunch," Slim affirmed
earnestly. Slim was laboring sootily with the stove-pipe which Patsy had struck askew with
a stick of wood.

Outside, Happy Jack was protesting in what he believed to be an undertone against being installed
in Patsy's place. "Aw, that's always the way! Anything comes up, it's 'Happy, you git in and
rustle some chuck.' I ain't no cook--or if I be they might pay me cook's wages. I betche there
ain't another man in camp would stand for it. Somebody's got to take that bacon down to the
creek and wash it off, if yuh want any meat for supper. There ain't no time to boil beef. If
I'd a been boss uh this outfit, I betche no blame cook on earth would uh made rough-house like
Patsy done." But no one paid the slightest attention to Happy Jack, having plenty to think
of and to do before they slept.

Not even the sun, when it shone again, could warm their hearts to a joy in living. Happy Jack
cooked the breakfast, but his coffee was weak and his biscuits "soggy," and Patsy had managed
to make the butter absolutely uneatable with sand; also they were late and Chip was surly over
the double loss of cook and cowboy. Happy Jack packed food and dishes in much the same spirit
which Patsy had shown the night before, climbed sullenly to the high seat, gathered up the
reins of the four restive horses, released the brake and let out a yell surcharged with all
the bitterness bottled within his soul. He had not done anything to precipitate the trouble.
Beyond eating half a pie he had been an innocent spectator, not even taking part in the rough-riding.
Yet here he was, condemned to the mess-wagon quite as if he were to blame for Patsy's leaving.
The eyes of Happy Jack gazed gloomily upon the world, and his driving seemed a reckless invitation
to disaster. "I betche I'll make 'em good and sick uh my cooking!" he plotted while he went
rattling and bumping over the untrailed prairie.

He succeeded so well that two days later Chip gave a curt order or two and headed his wagons,
horses and his lean-stomached bunch of riders for Dry Lake, passing by even the Flying U coulee
in his haste. Just outside the town, upon the creek which saves the inhabitants from dying
of thirst or delirium tremens, he left the wagons with Happy Jack, Slim and one alien to set
up camp and rode dust-dogged to the little, red depot.

The telegram which went speeding to Great Falls and to a friend there was brief, but it was
eloquent and not quite flattering to Happy Jack. It read like this:

  "JOHN G. SCOTT,

  "The Palace, Great Falls.

  "For God's sake send me a cook by return train; must deliver goods
  or die hard.

  "BENNETT, Flying U."

Whether the cook must die hard, or whether he meant the friend, Chip did not trouble to make
plain. Telegrams are bound by such rigid limitations, and he had gone over the ten-word rate
as it was. But he told Weary to receive the cook, be he white or black, have him restock the
mess-wagon to his liking and then bring the outfit to the ranch, when Chip would again take
it in hand. He said that he was going home to get a square meal, and he mentioned Happy Jack
along with several profane words. "Johnny Scott will send a cook, and a good one,"; he added
hopefully. "Johnny never threw down a friend in his life and he never will. And say, Weary,
if he wires, you collect the message and act accordingly. I'm going to have a decent supper,
to-night!" He was riding a good horse and there was no reason why he should be late in arriving,
especially if he kept the gait at which he left town.

In two hours Weary, Pink and Andy Green were touching hat-brims over a telegram from Johnny
Scott--a telegram which was brief as Chip's, and more illuminating:

    "CHIP BENNETT,

    "Dry Lake.

    "Kidnaped Park hotel chef best cook in town will be on next train.
    J.G. SCOTT."

"Sounds good," mused Andy, reading it for the fourth time. "But there's thirteen words in that
telegram, if yuh notice."

"I wish yuh wouldn't try to butt in on Happy Jack's specialty," Weary remonstrated, folding
the message and slipping it inside the yellow envelope. "If this is the same jasper that cooked
there a month ago, we're going to eat ourselves plumb to death; a better meal I never laid
away inside me than the one I got at the Park Hotel when I was up there last time. Come on
over to the hotel and eat; their chuck isn't the best in the world, but it could be a lot worse
and still beat Happy Jack to a jelly."

PART TWO

The whole Happy Family--barring Happy Jack, who was sulking in camp because of certain things
which had been said of his cooking and which he had overheard--clanked spurs impatiently upon
the platform and waited for the arrival of the train from the West. When at last it snorted
into town and nosed its way up to the platform they bunched instinctively and gazed eagerly
at the steps which led down from the smoker.

A slim little man in blue serge, a man with the complexion of a strip of rawhide and the mustache
of a third-rate orchestra leader, felt his way gingerly down by the light of the brakeman's
lantern, hesitated and then came questioningly toward them, carrying with some difficulty a
bulky suitcase.

"It's him, all right," muttered Pink while they waited.

The little man stopped apologetically before the group, indistinct in the faint light from
the office window. Already the train was sliding away into the dark. "Pardon," he apologized.
"I am looking for the U fich flies."

"This is it," Weary assured him gravely. "We'll take yuh right on out to camp. Pretty dark,
isn't it? Let me take your grip--I know the way better than you do." Weary was not in the habit
of making himself a porter for any man's accommodation, but the way back to where they had
left the horses was dark, and the new cook was very small and slight. They filed silently back
to Rusty Brown's place, invited the cook in for a drink and were refused with soft-voiced regret
and the gracious assurance that he would wait outside for them.

Weary it was, and Pink to bear him company, who piloted the stranger out to camp and showed
him where he might sleep in Patsy's bed. Patsy had left town, the Happy Family had been informed,
with the declaration often repeated that he was "neffer cooming back alreatty." He had even
left behind him his bed and his clothes rather than meet again any member of the Flying U outfit.

"We'd like breakfast somewhere near sunrise," Weary told the cook at parting. "Soon as the
store opens in the morning, we'll drive in and you can stock up the wagon; we're pretty near
down to cases, judging from the meals we have been getting lately. Hope yuh make out all right."

"I will do very nicely, I thank you," smiled the new cook in the light of the lantern which
stood upon the fireless cook-stove. "I wish you good-night, gentlemen, and sweet dreams of
loved ones."

"Say, he's a polite son-of-a-gun," Pink commented when they were riding back to town. "'The
U fich flies'--that's a good one! What is he, do you thing? French?"

"He's liable to be most anything, and I'll gamble he can build a good dinner for a hungry man.
That's the main point," said Weary.

At daybreak Weary woke and heard him humming a little tune while he moved softly about the
cook-tent and the mess-wagon, evidently searching mostly for the things which were not there,
to judge from stray remarks which interrupted the love song. "Rolled oat--I do not find him,"
he heard once. And again: "Where the clean towels they are, that I do not discover." Weary
smiled sleepily and took another nap.

The cook's manner of announcing breakfast was such that it awoke even Jack Bates, notoriously
a sleepy-head, and Cal Emmett who was almost as bad. Instead of pounding upon a pan and lustily
roaring "Grub-pi-i-ile!" in the time-honored manner of roundup cooks, he came softly up to
the bed-tent, lifted a flap deprecatingly and announced in a velvet voice:

"Breakfast is served, gentlemen."

Andy Green, whose experiences had been varied, sat up and blinked at the gently swaying flap
where the cook had been standing. "Say, what we got in camp?" he asked curiously. "A butler?"

"By golly, that's the way a cook oughta be!" vowed Slim, and reached for his hat.

They dressed hastily and trooped down to the creek for their morning ablutions, and hurried
back to the breakfast which waited. The new cook was smiling and apologetic and anxious to
please. The Happy Family felt almost as if there were a woman in camp and became very polite
without in the least realizing that they were not behaving in the usual manner, or dreaming
that they were unconsciously trying to live up to their chef.

"The breakfast, it is of a lacking in many things fich I shall endeavor to remedy," he assured
them, pouring coffee as if he were serving royalty. He was dressed immaculately in white cap
and apron, and his mustache was waxed to a degree which made it resemble a cat's whiskers.
The Happy Family tasted the coffee and glanced eloquently at one another. It was better than
Patsy's coffee, even; and as for Happy Jack--

There were biscuits, the like of which they never had tasted before. The bacon was crisp and
delicately brown and delicious, the potatoes cooked in a new and enticing way. The Happy Family
showed its appreciation as seemed to them most convincing: They left not a scrap of anything
and they drank two cups of coffee apiece when that was not their habit.

Later, they hitched the four horses to the mess-wagon, learned that the new cook, though he
deeply regretted his inefficiency, did not drive anything. "The small burro," he explained,
"I ride him, yes, and also the automobile drive I when the way is smooth. But the horses I
make not acquainted with him. I could ride upon the elevated seat, yes, but to drive the quartet
I would not presume."

"Happy, you'll have to drive," said Weary, his tone a command.

"Aw, gwan!" Happy Jack objected, "He rode out here all right last night--unless somebody took
him up in front on the saddle, which I hain't heard about nobody doing. A cook's supposed to
do his own driving. I betche--"

Weary went close and pointed a finger impressively. "Happy, you drive," he said, and Happy
Jack turned without a word and climbed glumly up to the seat of the mess-wagon.

"Well, are yuh coming or ain't yuh?" he inquired of the cook in a tone surcharged with disgust.

"If you will so kindly permit, it give me great pleasure to ride with you and to make better
friendship. It now occurs to me that I have not yet introduce. Gentlemen, Jacques I have the
honor to be name. I am delighted to meet you and I hope for pleasant association." The bow
he gave the group was of the old school.

Big Medicine grinned suddenly and came forward. "Honest to grandma, I'm happy to know yuh!"
he bellowed, and caught the cook's hand in a grip that sent him squirming upon his toes. "These
here are my friends: Happy Jack up there on the wagon, and Slim and Weary and Pink and Cal
and Jack Bates and Andy Green--and there's more scattered around here, that don't reely count
except when it comes to eating. We like you, by cripes, and we like your cookin' fine! Now,
you amble along to town and load up with the best there is--huh?" It occurred to him that his
final remarks might be construed as giving orders, and he glanced at Weary and winked to show
that he meant nothing serious. "So long, Jakie," he added over his shoulder and went to where
his horse waited.

Jacques--ever afterward he was known as "Jakie" to the Flying U--clambered up the front wheel
and perched ingratiatingly beside Happy Jack, and they started off behind the riders for the
short mile to Dry Lake. Immediately he proceeded to win Happy from his glum aloofness.

"I would say, Mr. Happy, that I should like exceeding well to be friends together," he began
purringly. "So superior a gentleman must win the admiration of the onlooker and so I could
presume to question for advisement. I am experience much dexterity for cooking, yes, but I
am yet so ignorant concerning the duties pertaining to camp. If the driving of these several
horses transpire to pertain, I will so gladly receive the necessary instruction and endeavor
to fulfil the accomplishment. Yes?"

Happy Jack, more in stupefaction at the cook's vocabulary than anything else, turned his head
and took a good look at him. And the trustful smile of Jakie went straight to the big, soft
heart of him and won him completely. "Aw, gwan," he adjured gruffly to hide his surrender.
"I don't mind driving for yuh. It ain't that I was kicking about."

"I thank you for the so gracious assurement. If I transgress not too greatly, I should like
for inquire what is the chuck for which I am told to fill the wagon. I do not," he added humbly,
"understand yet all the language of your so glorious country, for fich I have so diligently
study the books. Words I have not yet assimilated completely, and the word chuck have yet escape
my knowledge."

"Chuck," grinned Happy Jack, "is grub."

"Chuck, it is grub," repeated Jakie thoughtfully. "And grub, that is--Yes?"

Happy Jack struggled mentally with the problem. "Well, grub is grub; all the stuff yuh eat
is grub. Meat and flour and coffee and--"

"Ah, the light it dawns!" exclaimed Jakie joyously. "Grub it is the supply of provision fich
I must obtain for camping, yes? I thank you so graciously for the information; because," he
added a bit wistfully, "that little word chuck she annoy me exceeding and make me for not sleep
that I must grasp the meaning fich elude. I am now happy that I do not make the extensive blunder
for one small word fich I apprehend must be a food fich I must buy and perhaps not to understand
the preparation of it. Yes? It is the excellent jest at the expense of me."

"There ain't much chuck in camp," Happy observed helpfully, "so yuh might as well start in
and get anything yuh want to cook. The outfit is good about one thing They don't never kick
on the stuff yuh eat. The cook always loads up to suit himself, and nobody don't ask questions
or make a holler--so long as there's plenty and it's good."

Jakie listened attentively, twisting his mustache ends absently. "It is simply that I purchase
the supplies fich I shall choose for my judgment," he observed, to make quite sure that he
understood. "I am to have carte blanche, yes?"

"Sure, if yuh want it," said Happy Jack. "Only they might not keep it here. Yuh can't get everything
in a little place like this." It is only fair to Happy Jack to state that he would have understood
the term if he had seen it in print. It was the pronunciation which made the words strange to him.

Jakie looked puzzled, but being the soul of politeness he made no comment--perhaps because
Happy Jack was at that moment bringing his four horses to a reluctant stand at the wide side-door
of the store.

"The horses, they are of the vivacious temperament, yes?" Jakie had scrambled from the seat
to within the door and was standing there smiling appreciatively at the team.

"Aw, they're all right. You go on in--I guess Weary's there. If he ain't, you go ahead and
get what yuh want. I'll be back after awhile." Thirst was calling Happy Jack; he heeded the
summons and disappeared, leaving the new cook to his own devices.

So, it would seem, did every other member of the Flying U. Weary had been told that Miss Satterly
was in town, and he forgot all about Jakie in his haste to find her. No one else seemed to
feel any responsibility in the matter, and the store clerks did not care what the Flying U
outfit had to eat. For that reason the chuck-wagon contained in an hour many articles which
were strange to it, and lacked a few things which might justly be called necessities.

"Say, you fellows are sure going to live swell," one of the clerks remarked, when Happy Jack
finally returned. "Where did yuh pick his nibs? Ain't he a little bit new and shiny?"

"Aw, he's all right," Happy Jack defended jealously. "He's a real chaff, and he can build the
swellest meals yuh ever eat. Patsy can't cook within a mile uh him. And clean--I betche he
don't keep his bread-dough setting around on the ground for folks to tromp on." Which proves
how completely Jakie had subjugated Happy Jack.

That night--nobody but the horse-wrangler and Happy Jack had shown up at dinner-time--the boys
of the Flying U dined luxuriously at their new-made camp upon the creek-bank at the home ranch,
and ate things which they could not name but which pleased wonderfully their palates. The round
pillars of the choir are double, as at Canterbury and Senlis. The apsis is half a duodecagon. The
pointed windows above are in two lancet divisions, surmounted by a trefoil; but the dividing
masonry is not a mullion: it is the unperforated part of the wall.
This perhaps is arabesque.

There is a second arch within, which is really divided by a mullion or small pillar. A curious
leaf projects above. Some of the painted glass is in the oldest style: dispersed patterns in a
black outline, on a grey ground.

In a side-chapel are painted tiles, brown and yellow as usual, displaying knots and armorial
bearings.

In the same chapel are fresco paintings: many more are on the east side of the wall that divides
the last choir-aisle from the south transept.

They represent St. Michael and the Devil, the Deity between angels,& c. In all of them, the
outline is formed by a thick black line.

"PLATE XCV. AND XCVI.

MOUNT ST. MICHAEL.

Religion, history, poetry, and painting, have all united in giving celebrity to St. Michael's
Mount.

The extraordinary sanctity of its monastery, the striking peculiarities of its form and situation,
and the importance acquired by the many sieges it supported, or the almost endless pilgrimages
it received, have so endeared it to the man of taste and the philosopher, that scarcely a spot is
to be found in Europe, more generally known, or more universally
interesting.

The legendary mist with which St. Michael's Mount is now densely involved, has continued, from
a period of remote antiquity, to float around its summit.

Tradition delights in relating how, in times prior to the Christian æra, it was devoted to
the worship of the great luminary of heaven, under his Gallic name of Belenus, [213] a title probably
derived from the Hebrew Baal, and the Assyrian Belus. The same tradition recounts how, at a
more recent epoch, it reared its majestic head, embosomed in a spacious tract of woods and thickets,
while the hermits who had fixed themselves upon its summits, received their daily bread from
the charity of the priest of the neighboring parish of Beauvoir; an ass spontaneously undertaking
the office of conveying it to them, till on the road he fell a prey to a wolf, who was then
constrained by Providence to devote himself to the same pious labor.

At length, about the year 709, it was decreed that the rock should at once change its designation
and its patron.

To the clouds of Paganism, succeeded the sun of Christianity; and the original heathen appellation,
Tumba, was replaced by one of the most elevated names of holy writ. St. Michael," the chief
of the angels and of the host of heaven, the protector of the Hebrew synagogue of yore, as
now of the Catholic church, the conqueror of the old serpent, and the leader of souls to heaven,
"condescended to be worshipped here upon the western coast, as on Mount Garganus in the east,
and with this view appeared to St. Aubert, then bishop of Avranches, commanding him to erect
a church to his honor upon the mount. Another legend relates, how there had previously existed
upon the same spot, a religious edifice, which had passed under the name of the Monasterium ad
duas Tumbas, being equally appropriated to the adjoining rock of Tombeleine. However this may
have been, it is admitted on all sides that a church was built, and that the hill knew thenceforth
no other name than that of St. Michael's Mount; though Aubert, tardy in his belief, had refused
to obey the injunction, till it had been repeated three several times, upon the last of which,
the archangel touched the head of the saint, and left imprinted in
his skull the marks of his fingers, which the author, here quoted,
relates that he himself saw, to his great delight, in the years 1612
and 1641.

To the miraculous vision, succeeded other occurrences of similar import. A tethered bull pointed
out the spot where the holy edifice should be erected, and at the same time circumscribed
its limits; a rock, that opposed the progress of the workmen, and was immoveable by human art,
spontaneously withdrew at the touch of an infant's foot; and the earth opening, on being struck
with St. Aubert's staff, gave birth to a spring of water, at once of the utmost use to the
inhabitants, and gifted with the most sanative powers. At about the same period also, the sea ingulphed
the neighboring forests, [214] insulating the rock; so that three messengers, who had been
dispatched to Mount Garganus, thence to bring a portion of red cloth, the gift of St. Michael,
together with a fragment of the stone on which he himself had sate,
found on their return the aspect of things so changed, that" they
thought they must have entered into a new world.

"History, from this period, assumes a character of comparative authenticity. The Norman conquest
threatened for awhile the extinction of Christianity: the baptism of Rollo, rekindling its dying
embers, made them blaze forth with a light and warmth unknown before. The duke himself, on the
fourth day after he had presented himself at the holy font, endowed the monastery of St. Michael,
then styled" ecclesiam in periculo maris supra montem positam. "-- No further mention occurs
of the convent, during the reign of this monarch, or of his son, William Longue-Epée; but their
immediate successor, Richard I. amply atoned for any neglect on their part. He built, according to Dudo
of St. Quentin, a church of wondrous size, together with spacious buildings, for a body of monks
of the Benedictine order, whom he established there in 988, displacing
the regular canons, whose irregular lives had been the subject of
much scandal.

This munificence on the part of Richard, has even caused him to be regarded by some writers as
the founder of the convent.-- His son and successor, of the same name, selected St. Michael's
Mount, as the favored spot, where, in the beginning of his reign, he received the hand of the
fair Judith, sister to Geoffrey, one of the principal counts of Brittany. An opportunity was
almost immediately afterwards afforded him of testifying at once
his liberality and his devotion, as well as his love; for, on the
first year of the eleventh century, the church, which had then been
completed only five years, was burned to the ground.

The prince, however, appears to have been somewhat tardy on the occasion; no attempt was made
towards replacing the loss, till Hildebert II. succeeded as abbot. During his prelacy, in 1022,
the foundations of a new church were laid, upon a still more extensive scale.-- Twenty-six years
more were suffered to elapse, and the abbatial mitre had adorned the brows of four successive
abbots, when Ralph de Beaumont witnessed the completion of the work.

The church then built is expressly stated by the authors of the Gallia Christiana, to be the
same as was in existence at the time of the publication of that work; [215]
and M. de Gerville confirms their remark by his own personal observation,
at least as far as relates to the nave.

This indeed has been shortened of late; but he is persuaded, that whatever still remains is really
of the architecture of the days of Duke Richard.-- Robert, the following duke, repaired to St.
Michael's Mount, to superintend his forces, upon the occasion of the revolt of Alain, Count of
Dol; and it was hither, also, that the archbishop of Rouen brought the humbled count, to make
his peace with his offended sovereign.-- At the period of the conquest,
the monks of St. Michael furnished six transports towards that eventful
expedition; and when, after the death of William, the dominion over
the mount passed by purchase from Robert to Henry, they distinguished
themselves by their attachment to their new sovereign, who here supported
a siege on the part of his two elder brothers, and was finally driven
to surrender only by famine.

The elder of these brothers, at an advanced period of his life, re-visited
the church in a far different guise; and, to discharge his vows to
the archangel for his safe return from the crusade, prostrated himself
before the shrine which he had erst assaulted with the fury of his
arms.-- The year 1158 was, almost above every other, memorable in the
history of St. Michael's Mount.

Henry Plantagenet, who, two years before, had there received the homage of his subjects of Brittany,
then returned in pilgrim weeds, accompanied by Louis VII. whose repudiated wife, Eleanor of
Aquitaine, he had married; and the two monarchs, attended by a numerous throng of secular nobility,
as well as by several cardinals, archbishops, and bishops, kneeled
in amity at the holy altar.

During
the reign of the ill-starred John, St. Michael's Mount passed, in common with the rest of Normandy,
under the sceptre of France, and suffered severely upon the occasion. Guy of Thouars, then
in alliance with Philip-Augustus, advanced against it at the head
of an army of Britons; and, experiencing on the part of the inhabitants
but a feeble resistance, set fire to the palisades, the principal
defence of the place.

The flames communicated to the houses; and the church also fell a prey to them. To use the words
of Brito," vis ignea sursùm Scandit, et ecclesiæ decus omne, locumque
sacratum, Resque monasterii cremat insatiabilis omnes.

"Philip lamented the injury, and did all in his power to repair it; but, considering that one
great source of the misfortunes of the holy place had sprung from
the impiety of the Anglo-Norman monarchs, in placing their trust in
ramparts made by human hands, rather than in the protection of the
archangel, he levelled with the ground the few works of defence that
remained.

[216] His pious successor, the sainted Louis, was far from entertaining a similar feeling. On the
other hand, when his devotion led him to the shrine of St. Michael, after returning from his
unfortunate expedition to Damietta, the chronicles expressly state, that he placed, with his own
hand, a considerable sum of money upon the altar, for the purpose of repairing the fortifications. And
it appears probable that, at a period not very distant, the money thus expended stood the crown
of France in good stead; for, during the war at the beginning of the fifteenth
century, St. Michael's Mount was the only place that successfully resisted
the English arms. The siege it supported upon that occasion, is one of
the few brilliant events that give lustre to a period of French history,
generally dark and gloomy.

Two cannon, of prodigious size, constructed for the discharge of stone balls, above a foot in
diameter, testify to the present moment the heroic defence of the garrison, and the defeat of
the assailants. At a subsequent period of French history, during the times when party, under the mask of pious
zeal, deluged the kingdom with blood, and virtuous men of every creed joined in the lamentation,
that" tantum Religio potuit suadere malorum, "the Huguenots made many and most brave and memorable,
though vain, attempts to render themselves masters of St. Michael's Mount. From that time forward,
the rock has been suffered to continue in tranquillity, though still
retaining its character as a fortification.

Its designation of late has been a departmental prison: during the reign of terror, it was applied to
the disgraceful purpose of serving as a receptacle for three hundred ecclesiastics, whose
age or infirmities would not allow of their being transported; and who, with cruel mockery, were incarcerated
within the walls, long gladdened with the comforts, dignified with the pomp, and sanctified with the
holiness of religion. Prisoners of importance, especially those charged with crimes against the state,
were chiefly confined here before the revolution, when the iron cage, and the vaults, known by the
ominous names of the Oubliettes, or the In Pace, gave the mount a melancholy notoriety. In this short
outline of the history of St. Michael's Mount, mention has been repeatedly
made of French sovereigns who have proceeded thither in pilgrimage. The
task were long to enumerate all those princes and monarchs who distinguished
it with this mark of their veneration.

But there is one other instance too important in its consequences to be passed over in silence.
Louis XI. after having expelled the rebellious Britons from Normandy in 1463, not content with
paying his devotions to the archangel at his shrine, and bestowing
upon the monks a donation of six hundred crowns of gold, sent them
the image of St. Michael, together with the golden chain that he had
himself worn upon his neck; and directed that the three escalop shells,
formerly borne upon the abbatial shield, should be enriched by the
addition of four others, and three lilies.

Nor satisfied with this, he, six years afterwards, still further testified his devotion, by various
privileges granted to the community, and by the institution of the
noble military order of St. Michael, [217] whose collar was composed
of silver escalop shells, while the medal bore a representation of
the archangel trampling upon the dragon, with the legend," Immensi
tremor oceani.

"-- Even in this enlightened age, the concourse of pilgrims to the mount is by no means at an
end: they are still to be seen repairing to the church; and, if the female
Druids have ceased for many a century to sell to the sailors their
enchanted arrows, of power to still the angry ocean, when hurled into
its waves by a maiden hand, the Pythonesses of the present day find
a no less plentiful source of emolument in their chaplets, and rosaries,
and crosses, and medals, of St. Michael.

The annals of the world abound in details of the changes of form and feature which superstition
has assumed in different ages; but it is humiliating to human nature to reflect, that the conquests
obtained by philosophy over her great adversary, are in reality very small. Superstition, like
the fabled Proteus, appears under an endless variety of forms; but
she is also, like the god, still one and the same. The list of abbots
of St. Michael's Mount, contains names of the highest consequence
in France: the Cardinal d'Estouteville, and the still more illustrious
Cardinal de Joyeuse, Henry of Lorraine, son of the Duke de Guise,
and Charles Maurice, of the noble family of Broglio, have, in times
comparatively modern, presided over the community.

The privileges and honorary distinctions attached to the office, were also considerable. The
names of the superiors of the monastery stand recorded on various occasions, as men selected for
important trusts; and they were formally empowered, by a bull of Pope Clement VII. dated from
Avignon, to bestow the benediction, even in the church of Avranches, and in the presence of the
bishop or the metropolitan himself, and to wear the mitre, and all other episcopal insignia. The powers
and immunities of the convent were likewise extensive and important.
Its annual income was estimated by the author of the Alien Priories,
in the middle of the last century, at forty thousand livres; but it is
at the same time stated in that work, that, at an earlier period, it
was far more considerable.

"Jakie--he's gone nutty! He come at me with a knife, and he'd uh killed me if I'd stayed!"
Happy Jack pantingly recovered himself. "I didn't have no time ta git my gun," he added in
a more natural tone, "or I'd uh settled him pretty blame quick. So I come out to borrow yourn.
I betche I'll have the next move."

The horse-wrangler grinned heartlessly. "I reckon he's about half shot," he said, sliding over
in the saddle and getting out the inevitable tobacco sack and papers. "Old Pete Williams rode
past while you were gone, loaded to the guards and with a bottle uh whisky in each saddle-pocket
and two in his coat. He gave me a drink, and then he went on and stopped at camp. He was hung
up there for quite a spell, I noticed. I didn't see him pass any uh the vile liquor to little
Jakie, but--" he twirled a blackened match stub in his fingers and then tossed it from him.

"Aw, gwan! Jakie wouldn't touch nothing when he was in town," Happy Jack objected. "I betche
he's gone crazy, or else--"

"Well," interrupted the horse-wrangler, "I've told yuh what I know and all I know. Take it
or leave it." He rode back to turn the lead-horse from climbing a ridge where he did not want
the herd to follow. He did not lend Happy Jack his gun, and for that reason--perhaps--Jakie
remained alive and unpunctured until the first of the riders came loping in to camp.

The first riders happened to be Pink and Big Medicine. They were met by a tearful, contrite
Jakie--a Jakie who seemed much inclined to weeping upon their shirt-fronts and to confessing
all his sins, particularly the sin of trying to carve Happy Jack. That perturbed gentleman
made his irate appearance as soon as he found that reinforcements had arrived.

Big Medicine disengaged himself from the clinging arms of the chef, sniffed suspiciously and
wiped away the tears from his vest. "Well, say," he bellowed in his usual manner of trying
to make all Chouteau County hear what he had to say, "I ain't t' blame if he got away on yuh.
Yuh hadn't ought to uh done it--or else yuh oughta made a clean job of it sos't we could hang
yuh proper. Supper ready?"

"It is that the supply of eggs is inadequate," wept Jakie, steadying himself against the tent-pole
while he wiped his eyes upon his apron. "Because of it I could not prepare the floating island--and
without the dessert I have not the heart to prepare the dinner, yes? It is that I am breaking
of the heart that I assail the good friend of me. Oh, Mr. Happy, it is that I crave pardon!"

Happy Jack came near taking to his heels again when he saw Jakie start for him; he did back
up hastily, and his evident reluctance to embrace and forgive started afresh the tears of remorse.
Jakie wailed volubly and, catching Pink unaware, he wept upon his bosom.

Others came riding in, saw the huddle before the mess-tent and came up to investigate. With
every fresh arrival Jakie began anew his confession that he had attempted to murder his good
friend, Mr. Happy, and with every confession he wept more copiously than before.

The Happy Family tacitly owned itself helpless. A warlike cook they could deal with. A lazy
cook they could kick into industry. A weeping, wailing, conscience-stricken cook, a cook who
steadfastly refused to be comforted, was an absolutely new experience. They told him to buck
up, found that he only broke out anew, threatened, cajoled and argued. Jakie clung to whoever
happened to be within reach and mixed the English language unmercifully.

"Happy, you'll have to forgive him," said Weary at last. "Go tell him yuh don't feel hard towards
him. We want some supper."

"Aw, gwan. I ain't forgive him, and I never will. I--"

Big Medicine stepped into the breach. With his face contorted into a grin to crimple one's
spine, with a voice to make one's knees buckle, he went up to Happy Jack and thrust that horrible
grin into Happy's very face. "By cripes, you forgive Jakie, and you do it quick!" he thundered.
"Think you're going to ball up the eating uh the whole outfit whilst you stand around acting
haughty? Why, by cripes, I've killed men in the Coconino County for half what you're doing!
You'll wish, by cripes, that Jakie had slit your hide; you'll consider that woulda been an
easy way out, before I git half through with yuh. You walk right up and shake hands with him,
and you tell him that yuh love him to death and are his best friend and always will be! Yuh
hear me?"

Happy Jack heard. The Happy Family considerately moved aside and left him a clear path, and
they looked on without a word while he took Jakie's limp hand, muttered tremulously, "Aw, fergit
it, Jakie. I know yuh didn't mean nothing by it, and I forgive yuh," and backed away again.

Jakie wept, this time with gratitude. They got him inside a tent, unrolled his bed and persuaded
him to lie down upon it. They searched the mess-box, found all that was left of a quart bottle
of whisky, took it outside and divided it gravely and appreciatively among themselves. There
was not much to divide.

Happy Jack took charge of the pots and pans, with the whole Happy Family to help him hurry
supper, while Jakie forgot his woes in sleep and the sun set upon a quiet camp.

Next morning, Jakie was up and cooking breakfast at the appointed time, and the camp felt that
the incident of the evening before might well be forgotten. The coffee was unusually good that
morning, even for Jakie. He was subdued, was Jakie, and his soft, brown eyes were humble whenever
they met the eyes of Happy Jack. His smile was infrequent and fleeting, and his voice more
deprecating than ever. Aside from these minor changes everything seemed the same as before
the sheepmen had stopped at camp.

That afternoon, however, came an aftermath in the shape of Happy Jack galloping wildly out
to where the others were holding a herd and "cutting out." He was due to come and help, so
nobody paid any attention to his haste, though it was his habit to take his time. He shot recklessly
by the outer fringes of the "cut" and yelled in a way to stampede the whole bunch. "Jakie's
dying," he shouted, wild-eyed. "He's drunk up all the lemon extract and most uh the v'nilla
before I could stop him!"

Chip and Weary, riding in hot haste to the camp, found that it was true as far as the drinking
was concerned. Jakie was stretched upon his back breathing unpleasantly, and beside him were
two flat bottles of half-pint size, one empty and the other very nearly so; the tent and Jakie's
breath reeked of lemon and vanilla. Chip sent back for help.

For the second time the Flying U roundup was brought to an involuntary pause because of its
cook. There was but one thing to do, and Chip did it. He broke camp, loaded Jakie into the
bed-wagon, and headed at a gallop for Dry Lake in an effort to catch the next train for Great
Falls. Whether he sent Jakie to the hospital or to the undertaker was a question he did not
attempt to answer; one thing was certain, however, that he must send him to one of those places
as soon as might be.

That night, just before the train arrived, he sent another telegram to Johnny Scott at rush
rates. He said simply:

  "Send another cook immediately this one all in am returning him in
  baggage coach this train.

  "C. BENNETT."

Just after midnight he went to the station and received an answer, which is worth repeating:

  "C. BENNETT, Dry Lake: Supply cooks running low am sending only
  available don't kill this one or may have to go without season on
  cooks closed fine attached to killing, running with dogs or
  keeping in captivity this one drunk look for him in Pullman have
  bribed porter. J.G. SCOTT."

It was sent collect, which accounts perhaps for the facetious remarks which it contained.

It was morning when that train arrived, because it was behind time for some reason, but Chip,
Weary, Pink and Big Medicine were at the depot to meet it. The new cook having been reported
drunk, they wanted to make sure of getting him off the train in case he proved unruly. They
were wise in the ways of intoxicated cooks. They ran to the steps of the only Pullman on the
train and were met by the grinning porter.

"Yas sah, he's in dah--but Ah cyan't git 'im off, sah, to save mah soul," he explained toothily.
"Ah put 'im next de front end, sah, but he's went to sleep and Ah cyan't wake 'em up, an' Ah
cyan't tote 'em out nohow. Seems lak he weighs a ton!"

"By cripes, we'll tote him out," declared Big Medicine, pushing ahead of Chip in his enthusiasm.
"You hold the train, and we'll git 'im. Show us the bunk."

The porter pointed out the number and retreated to the steps that he might signal the conductor.
The four pushed up through the vestibule and laid hold upon the berth curtains.

"Mamma!" ejaculated Weary in a stunned tone. "Look what's in here, boys!"

They thrust forward their heads and peered in at the recumbent form.

"Honest to grandma--it's old Patsy!" The voice of Big Medicine brought heads out all along
down the car.

"Come out uh that!" Four voices made up the chorus, and Patsy opened his eyes reluctantly.

"Py cosh, I not cook chuck for you fellers ven I'm sick," he mumbled dazedly.

"Come out uh that, you damned Dutch belly-robber!" bawled Big Medicine joyously, and somewhere
behind a curtain a feminine shriek was heard at the shocking sentence.

Four pairs of welcoming hands laid hold upon Patsy; four pairs of strong arms dragged him out
of the berth and through the narrow aisle to the platform. The conductor, the head brakeman
and the porter were chafing there, and they pulled while the others pushed. So Patsy was deposited
upon the platform, grumbling and only half sober.

"Anyway, we've got him back," Weary remarked with much satisfaction the next day when they
were once more started toward the range land. "When Irish blows in again, we'll be all right."

"By cripes, yuh just give me a sight uh that Irish once, and he'll come, if I have to rope
and drag 'im!" Big Medicine took his own way of intimating that he held no grudge. "Did yuh
hear what Patsy said, by cripes, when he was loading up the chuck-wagon at the store? He turned
in all that oil and them olives and anchovies, yuh know, and he told Tom t' throw in about
six cases uh blueberries. I was standin' right handy by, and he turns around and scowls at
me and says: 'Py cosh, der vay dese fellers eats pie mit derselves, I have to fill oop der
wagon mit pie fruit alreatty!' And then the old devil turns around with his back to me, but
yuh can skin me for a coyote if I didn't ketch a grin on 'is face!"

They turned and looked back to where Patsy, seated high upon the mess-wagon, was cracking his
long whip like pistol shots and swearing in Dutch at his four horses as he came bouncing along
behind them.

"Well, there's worse fellers than old Patsy," Slim admitted ponderously. "I don't want no more
Jakie in mine, by golly."

"I betche Jakie cashes in, with all that lemon in him," prophesied Happy Jack with relish.
"Dirty little Dago--it'd serve him right. Patsy wouldn't uh acted like that in a thousand years."

They glanced once more behind them, as if they would make sure that the presence of Patsy was
a reality. Then, with content in their hearts, they galloped blithely out of the lane and into
the grassy hills.

THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT THE CRITICS SAY OF

CHIP OF THE FLYING U.

BY M. BOWER.

       *       *       *       *       *

"'Chip' is all right. Better than 'The Virginian.'"

--Brooklyn Eagle.

"The name of B.M. Bower will stand for something readable in the estimation of every man, and
most every woman, who reads this fine new story of Montana ranch and its dwellers."--Publisher
& Retailer.

"Its qualities and merit can be summed up in the brief but sufficient statement that it is
thoroughly delightful."

--Albany Times-Union.

"For strength of interest, vivid description, clever and convincing character, drawing and
literary merit it is the surprise of the year."

--Walden's Stationer and Printer.

"It is an appealing story told in an active style which fairly sparkles in reproducing the
atmosphere of the wild and woolly West. It is consistently forceful and contains a quantity
of refreshing comedy."

--Philadelphia Press.

"Bound to stand among the famous novels of the year."

--Baltimore American.

"'The Virginian' has found many imitators, but few authors have come as near duplicating Owen
Wister's magnetic hero as has B.M. Bower, 'Chip of the Flying U.'"--Philadelphia Item.

"B.M. Bower has portrayed but few characters, but these he has pictured with the strong and
yet delicate stroke of a true master. The atmosphere of the West is perfect; one sees and feels
the vibrant, vital life of the ranch activities all through the telling of the story."

--Cincinnati Times-Star.

"It brims over with humor showing the bright and laughing side of ranch life. It is a story
which will delightfully entertain the reader."

--Portland Journal.

"The story contains strength of interest, vivid descriptions, clever and convincing character
drawing and literary merits, and the author lays on the colors with a master's touch."--Albany
Evening Journal.

12MO, CLOTH BOUND, COLOR ILLUSTRATIONS, $.25

G.W. DILLINGHAM CO., PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT THE CRITICS SAY OF

THE RANGE DWELLERS.

BY B.M. BOWER.

"A clever and humorous story, delightfully clean and wholesome, and possessing enough of the
dramatic and dangerous element to keep the imagination excited to the end."--The Nashville
American.

"A bright, jolly, entertaining yarn without a dull page."--The Chicago Inter-Ocean.

"One of the most charming and appealing of all Western novels. There is action and vivacity
at all times, and the reader's interest never sways for an instant. The story is admirably
written and runs along smoothly at all times."--Philadelphia Press. Mr. Bower knows his wild
west intimately and writes of it entertainingly."--Des Moines Register and Leader.

"Told with a good deal of humor and a lot of unusual spirit. A very clever book--one that has
more atmosphere than usual, and which can be picked up at any time to fill a long felt want
for excitement." --Philadelphia Inquirer.

"A tale to set the blood tingling. It is a story of the West, with the scene laid on a Montana
cattle ranch. A story well told and a story worth reading."--St. Louis Republic.

"Has many stirring situations and exciting incidents illustrative of existence in the open."--Boston
Budget-Beacon.

"The book is vigorous, with the bracing open air of the Far West."--Rochester Herald.

12mo, Cloth Bound

Beautiful Color Illustrations by Charles M. Russell, $1.25

G.W. DILLINGHAM CO., Publishers, NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

RAW GOLD

BY BERTRAND W. SINCLAIR

       *       *       *       *       *

"This is a stirring story of the Canadian Northwest and the Northwest Mounted Police. The unwritten
history of this wonderful and intrepid body of men must be a long way from the dry-as-dust
histories on the shelves. It is an open question if people do not get more real history in
a clear, clean-cut tale of this kind, with its strong character portrayal and its vivid local
coloring, than could be obtained in any other way."

--St. Louis Times.

"Action enough to thrill the dullest sort of reader."

--Albany Times-Union.

"The delineation of characters in this tale of the Northwest Mounted Police is splendidly portrayed.
They are flesh-and-blood personalities. There is something of mystery, bits of sharp action,
color, description, life. A well-told story."

--Pittsburg Dispatch.

"The story is sensational, but is full of animation. The love theme runs through it all and
pleasantly."

--Chicago Tribune.

"It is strong, virile, captivating and well told."

--Denver Republican.

"A rattling good story. There is sentiment of the kind that fits with the open sky and life
in the saddle, and the whole story moves with a swing and reality that are refreshing in the
extreme."--New York Times.

"Wild, indeed, is the West pictured by Mr. Sinclair."

--Boston Transcript.

"The tale, rapid in action and clearly told, is one of the best written on the Canadian West."--Louisville
Courier-Journal.

12mo, Cloth bound, Illustrated, $1.50. It is the kind of book one reads at a sitting far into
the night.

A young woman, fresh from the conventional East, drives her motor car into an absorbing adventure
which is the first of a series of dramatic events that tread upon each other's heels and grow
more intense and thrilling from page to page.

The gallant vagabond, Ned Bannister, who enthralls the heroine's fancy, against her will, is
reputed to be a lawless desperado of the worst type. Yet the reader joins with the wholly delightful
young heroine in yielding him full sympathy. How the mystery is solved to the satisfaction
of all is one of the pleasures that must be reserved for a reading.

The characters each and all are drawn with masterly vigor and help forward the swift movement
of the plot.

12mo. Illustrated. Cloth bound, $1.50.

       *       *       *       *       *

G.W. DILLINGHAM COMPANY

PUBLISHERS NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT THEY SAY ABOUT

RIDGWAY OF MONTANA

BY WILLIAM MACLEOD RAINE

       *       *       *       *       *

"To-day I had it out with 'Ridgway.' I opened the book and I did not lay it down till I had
raced eagerly through it. I find it a story with many elements of power in its treatment of
plot and personality. The men are all well-marked types. The women are all possible and pleasant
beings. The story gives dramatically the inner life of a mining camp. The atmosphere of wild
nature and primeval human passion is well sustained. The exuberance of detail and suggestion,
the easy drawing of character, the fine massing of effects, all show a strength and fire in
the author which ought to give us a line of good books from his pen in the coming days."

--EDWIN MARKHAM, in The New York American.

"Whatever else the reader of this novel may say, he certainly will be forced to admit that
it is highly interesting. Mr. Raine is not only skillful in devising incidents which compel
unwearied attention; he also has the rarer and finer craftsmanship which enables him to create
characters that have a high degree of personal charm."--Boston Transcript.

"A story engrossing all the way through."--New York World.

"It is a real pleasure to pick up a book like this one. To use an old phrase, the story is
one which can hardly be put down."

--Minneapolis Tribune.

"The action starts with the first line, and there is no suspension until the last word is written.
It is a story of thrilling situations, busy people and stirring times. Once started to read
it there is no quitting the book."--Denver Republican.

"Full of action and written with remarkable vigor."

--Charleston News and Courier.

"Mr. Raine's experience as a newspaper man has stood him in good stead. The western horned owl
(Bubo virginianus pallescens), the barn owl (Tyto alba pratincola), and perhaps others may well
be among the most feared enemies, but no special investigation of owl pellets on the reserve
has been possible.

"The political contest, the love scenes, and the character drawing give this story of life
in the mining country great strength and charm."--Pittsburg Dispatch.

"Western stories are always in demand, and of these William MacLeod Raine is the most popular
and successful writer. This is an exceptionally entertaining book."--Albany Times-Union.

12mo. Cloth bound. Illustrated, $1.50

       *       *       *       *       *

G.W. DILLINGHAM CO., PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK

