Wili and Lili for their part, did not seem to care if the examples were interrupted. It was
only too evident that they had something in their minds; and that it disturbed their little
brains to such an extent, that work was almost impossible for them. While their teacher was
busy with the charade and little Hunne, the twins had drawn their chairs nearer and nearer,
and laid their two heads together over some very important plans--so very important and engrossing
that Miss Hanenwinkel soon closed the book, with the remark that if the arithmetic were only
some foolish nonsensical trick or other, there might be some chance of their being willing
to work over it and understand it. She was probably right, for the twins had certainly an unusual
talent for tricks of all kinds. No sooner was the lesson-hour over, than they rushed forth,
and betook themselves to the wash-house, where they stood gazing at the tubs of various sizes,
and whispering mysteriously.

At dinner-time, Julius taking out a paper, asked,

"Who can guess this excellent charade, composed by Miss Hanenwinkel?" and he read it aloud.

He had scarcely finished when Rolf called out the answer, "July-us!"

Miss Hanenwinkel however said nothing about the lines which Julius had composed on her name,
for she was rather shy about the little slap at her peculiarity of speech, that appeared in
the last line.

As soon as dinner was over, Wili and Lili ran off to the wash-house again. Saturday afternoon
they had no lessons. So they had a beautiful time all to themselves. To be sure, it was understood
that the governess should look after them a little. But when she saw the children go into the
wash-house, she took it for granted that they were going to have a grand wash of doll's clothes,
such as they often had. She was very glad that they would be safely occupied for a few hours
at least.

But the twins, be it known, had far greater aspirations this afternoon, than for a simple doll's-wash.
They had been playing with the Noah's ark, which their father had brought them, and had thought
a great deal about the peculiar and wonderful life those people must have led in the ark at
the time of the Flood. It occurred to Lili that she should like to try what it was like, to
live in an ark, and even to take a voyage in one, and of course Wili, as usual, agreed with
her enthusiastically. Lili's plans were all made; she had thought out all the details, for
she was an observing little maiden, and knew the uses of many things and how to turn them to
her own purposes. She chose one of the middle-sized wash-tubs for an ark. There would be room
enough for all the animals, if they would sit quietly in their places.

Of course the animals were Schnurri and Philomele. The twins tried to coax them to take their
parts in the play. Schnurri came growling at their call, but Philomele purred and rubbed back
and forth against Lili's legs, till the little girl took her up in her arms, and said,

"Ah, my dear little Philomele, you are a great deal nicer than that old Schnurri."

This was the way it always was with these two creatures. The cat was called Philomele or nightingale,
because she purred in such a melodious manner. The dog was named Schnurri, which means growler,
because he had a habit of constant growling; though he always had good reason of his own for
it. They had both been taught to live peaceably with each other, and to do each other no mischief
of any kind. Schnurri was very good about it; followed the rule most punctiliously, and treated
Philomele with great consideration. When they ate their dinner from the same dish, he ate slowly,
because with her smaller mouth she could not take in as much at a time as he did. But it was
quite different with the cat. One moment she seemed as friendly as possible with Schnurri,
and rubbed up against him and was playful and kind; especially if any one of the family was
looking; then suddenly, without warning, she would raise her little paw and give him a sharp
scratch behind the ear. Then he growled of course, and as this behavior of Philomele's was
very frequent, it followed that he seemed to be constantly growling. So he got his name of
Schnurri, though really quite unjustly, for by nature he was most friendly and peaceable.

The first thing needed for the ark-voyage was water. Lili knew how the water was brought into
the wash-house when the clothes were ready for the wash. There was a spring just opposite,
with a log through which the water flowed freely; and when they wanted to fill the tubs, they
placed a long wooden spout under the log, and let the water run through. That was simple enough.
Now Lili thought that if she could arrange the spout, so as to lead the water to the floor
of the wash-house, it would soon make a pond, on which the tub-ark would float, all ready for
the voyage. How to get the long spout in place; that was the question.

The children debated for a while whether to ask Battiste or Trine to help them carry out their
plan. Between old Battiste and young Trine, there were very much the same relations as between
Schnurri and Philomele. The man had been a servant in the Birkenfeld family for many years,
and his knowledge of all departments of work, in house and stable and farm caused him to be
consulted on every occasion. It must be confessed that Trine was rather jealous of Battiste's
influence, because though she had not been very long in Mr. Birkenfeld's service herself, she
had an aunt who had lived in the family many years; indeed until she grew too old to work.
When this aunt had to give up, Trine had succeeded to her place; and so it was that she felt
that she had long established rights in the house, and that Battiste took more upon himself
than was quite fair. When any of the family were about, she was very civil to her fellow servant,
but behind their backs she gave many a saucy word, and played tricks upon him now and then.
Just the dog and cat again!

The children understood pretty well how things stood between the two, and profited by their
petty quarrels and jealousy. Wili and Lili really would rather have asked Trine than Battiste,
for they had more hope of getting what they wanted from her, as she took new ideas more readily
than the man, who did not like to be put out of his usual ways. But unluckily, what they wanted
was under Battiste's charge. So it was settled that Lili should ask him to help them, while
Wili held on to the cat and dog, lest they should run away.

Battiste was out on the barn floor, arranging a collection of seeds. Here Lili found him, and
she planted herself before him with her hands behind her back, just as she had seen her papa
stand, when giving orders.

"Battiste," she said very firmly, "where is the spout that is used to fill the tubs in the
wash-house?"

Battiste lifted his face from his seeds, and looked curiously at Lili as she stood there, as
if he were waiting to hear the question again; for he always took things moderately. At last
he replied with a question in his turn:

"Did your mamma send you to ask me?"

"No, I came of my own self."

"Then I don't know where the spout is."

"But, Battiste, I only want a little water from the spring; why can't I have just that?"

"I know that kind of a little bird," said Battiste, grumblingly, "now a little water, and now
a little fire, and always mischief. Can't have it. Can't give it to you."

"Oh well, I don't care," said Lili, and went straight to the kitchen, where Trine was scouring
pans.

"Trine, dear," said she coaxingly, "come and give me the water-spout. Battiste won't let us
have it. You'll get it for us, won't you?"

"Of course I will," said the maid, "a little water you might be allowed, I'm sure. But you
must wait till the old bear is out of the way; and then I'll go and get you what you want."

After a while Trine saw Battiste coming from the barn; he went past the house, down toward
the meadows.

"Come along now," she said, and taking Lili's hand, she ran with her to the wash-house, lifted
the long wooden spout from its hiding-place, put one end into the log, and the other into a
small tub. Then she explained to Lili that when they had enough water, they could push the
spout away from the log, and when they wanted it again, they could lift it up and put it into
the log themselves. But now she must go back to her work.

Away went Trine, and now the preparations for the voyage could begin. The children took the
lower end of the spout out of the tub, and put it down upon the floor. Lili got into the new
ark, and then Wili, and then they lifted in the cat and the dog. Noah and his wife sat side
by side, and rejoiced over their safety and over the delightful voyage they should make on
the rising waters of the flood, as the stream from the spout flowed merrily in upon the wash-house
floor. The water rose very fast. Now, yes, now the ark fairly floated, and Noah and his wife
shouted for joy! The flood had begun, and they were floating backward and forth upon the surface
of the water!

The wash-house floor was lower by several steps than the level of the ground outside. The water
rose and rose, and the children began to be frightened.

"Look, Wili, we can't get out again, and it is getting very deep."

Wili gazed thoughtfully over the edge of the tub, and said, "If it gets much deeper we shall
be drowned."

And it went on getting deeper and deeper.

Pretty soon Schnurri grew restless, and sprang up, making the tub roll so frightfully as almost
to upset it. The water was now so deep that the children could not get out without danger,
and they became dreadfully frightened, and began to cry out as loud as they could,

"We are drowning! Mamma! Battiste! Trine! We are drowning!" Then they no longer used any words,
but simply screamed, quite beside themselves with terror. Schnurri barked and howled in sympathy,
but Philomele scratched and bit at everything within reach. Now the true character of the two
animals showed itself. The cat would not go out of the tub into the water, and would not stay
quietly in it, either, but fought like a mad creature. But when the faithful dog found that,
in spite of all the screams and howls, no one came to their aid, he jumped into the water,
swam to the door, shook himself vigorously, and ran away. The children screamed louder than
ever, for the dog's movements had made the tub tip back and forth, and they were well scared.

Dora had run down from her room, and was peeping through her opening in the hedge, to try to
find out the cause of these terrible cries. The wash-house stood quite near the hedge, but
she could not see anything except the logs that carried the water to it from the spring. She
heard the cry "We are drowning!" and she ran back up-stairs, calling out, breathless with fright,

"Aunt, aunt! two children are drowning over there! don't you hear them call?"

Her aunt had closed all the windows, but the screams penetrated even to her ears.

"Oh dear, what can that be?" she exclaimed, in the greatest alarm. "I hear a terrible cry;
but who says they are drowning? Mrs. Kurd! Mrs. Kurd! Mrs. Kurd!"

Meantime, Schnurri, all dripping-wet, ran to the shed where Battiste was shaping bean-poles
for the kitchen garden. The dog rushed at Battiste, barking furiously, seized him by the trousers,
and tried to pull him along.

"Something is amiss," said the man to himself; and taking a long bean-pole on his shoulder,
in case it should be needed, he followed Schnurri to the wash-house. By this time the whole
family had assembled there--the mother, the governess, Julius, Paula, Rolf, Hunne, and last
of all Trine; for the cries had reached every corner of house and garden. Battiste stretched
his long pole across the water to the floating tub.

"Now, catch hold of that, and hold on tight, very tight," he said, and pulled the ark and its
occupants towards dry land. Wili and Lili were as white as chalk from their long fright.

It was no time to question the children about this new mishap, for they were in no condition
to talk about it; so the mother wisely took each by the hand, and led them to the seat under
the apple-tree, to recover themselves. Julius followed with little Hunne, saying, "Oh Wili
and Lili, you terrible twins, you will come to some dreadful end before long."

Old Battiste rolled up his trousers and stepped into the water in the wash-house, to pull out
the stopper from the waste pipe so that the flood could subside from the land of Noah. Trine
stood looking on. Battiste growled at her.

"You have no more sense than the seven-year-old babies! But that is the way things go!" for
he had seen at once, who must have given them the water-spout. Trine did not think it best
to reply at that moment, as she had been fairly caught in the wrong, but she secretly got her
claws ready to scratch when her chance came--just like Philomele. When the little party under
the apple-tree were somewhat tranquillized again, the cat came purring and rubbing herself
fawningly about Lili's feet. The child only gave her an angry push, and turned to caress old
Schnurri, who lay, still wet, on the ground near by; while Wili patted him affectionately,
saying softly,

"You shall have all my supper to-night, old fellow."

"Mine too," said Lili, and they both understood now the real characters of the two pets.

Hunne sat looking thoughtfully at the rescued party, and at last accosted Jule, who was walking
back and forth on the gravel path:

"Look here, Jule, what will the 'dreadful end' be like?"

"Oh it may be anything, Hunne. You see they have tried fire and water, and next they will pull
the house down about our ears, I dare say. Then we shall lie under the ruins, and it will be
all over with us."

"Shan't we be able to jump up quick, and get out of the way?" asked Hunne, anxiously.

"We may; unless the twins should be seized with their great idea in the middle of the night."

"You'll wake me up then Jule, won't you?" asked the little fellow pleadingly.

Mrs. Kurd had come running at the repeated summons of Aunt Ninette, just as Battiste had gone
to save the patriarchs of the flood with his bean-pole; and when she reached her, the tumult
was stilled.

"Did you hear that, Mrs. Kurd? It was frightful! Everything is quiet now, and I hope they are
saved!"

"Oh yes, of course," said Mrs. Kurd, quite unconcernedly, "it is only the little ones. They
are always crying out about something. There isn't really anything the matter."

"No; but children's cries are so shrill; I am shivering all over. How will my husband stand
it? No; this settles it, Mrs. Kurd. We shall go away. This is the last drop."

With these words Mrs. Ehrenreich hurried into her husband's room to see how he had borne the
shock. He was sitting at his table, with his ears stopped with cotton wool, and he did not
hear his wife come in. He had stuffed his ears when the first cry came, and had therefore escaped
the rest of the hubbub.

"Oh, that is very unhealthy, it is so heating for the head;" cried Aunt Ninette, much distressed.
She pulled the wool from his ears, and announced that she should go directly after the church-service
on the morrow, and ask the pastor where they could move to, since this place was unendurable.

This plan suited Uncle Titus as well as any other; all he wanted was quiet. Aunt Ninette, thinking
over her plans, went back to her own room.

