Third. Study with a stop-watch the time required to make each of these elementary movements
and then select the quickest way of doing each element of the work.

Fourth. Eliminate all false movements, slow movements, and useless movements.

Fifth. After doing away with all unnecessary movements, collect into one series the quickest
and best movements as well as the best implements.

This one new method, involving that series of motions which can be made quickest and best,
is then substituted in place of the ten or fifteen inferior series which were formerly in use.
This best method becomes standard, and remains standard, to be taught first to the teachers
(or functional foremen) and by them to every workman in the establishment until it is superseded
by a quicker and better series of movements. In this simple way one element after another of
the science is developed.

In the same way each type of implement used in a trade is studied. Under the philosophy of
the management of "initiative and incentive" each work-man is called upon to use his own best
judgment, so as to do the work in the quickest time, and from this results in all cases a large
variety in the shapes and types of implements which are used for any specific purpose. Scientific
management requires, first, a careful investigation of each of the many modifications of the
same implement, developed under rule of thumb; and second, after a time study has been made
of the speed attainable with each of these implements, that the good points of several of them
shall be united in a single standard implement, which will enable the workman to work faster
and with greater ease than he could before. This one implement, then, is adopted as standard
in place of the many different kinds before in use, and it remains standard for all workmen
to use until superseded by an implement which has been shown, through motion and time study,
to be still better.

With this explanation it will be seen that the development of a science to replace rule of
thumb is in most cases by no means a formidable under-taking, and that it can be accomplished
by ordinary, every-day men without any elaborate scientific training; but that, on the other
hand, the successful use of even the simplest improvement of this kind calls for records, system,
and cooperation where in the past existed only individual effort.

There is another type of scientific investigation which has been referred to several times
in this paper, and which should receive special attention, namely, the accurate study of the
motives which influence men. At first it may appear that this is a matter for individual observation
and judgment, and is not a proper subject for exact scientific experiments. It is true that
the laws which result from experiments of this class, owing to the fact that the very complex
organism--the human being--is being experimented with, are subject to a larger number of exceptions
than is the case with laws relating to material things. And yet laws of this kind, which apply
to a large majority of men, unquestionably exist, and when clearly defined are of great value
as a guide in dealing with men. In developing these laws, accurate, carefully planned and executed
experiments, extending through a term of years, have been made, similar in a general way to
the experiments upon various other elements which have been referred to in this paper. Perhaps
the most important law belonging to this class, in its relation to scientific management, is
the effect which the task idea has upon the efficiency of the workman. This, in fact, has become
such an important element of the mechanism of scientific management, that by a great number
of people scientific management has come to be known as "task management."

