 The embroidery is represented all
the flowers of the field and every bird of the air and all the stars of the ether. Wearing King
no less wonderful a tiara, bangles and bracelets, and earrings two round pearls each size of a
quail egg.

Her hair fell in curls over the back perfumed, and his beard was menudísimos curls, artistic and symmetrically
arranged. Her dress and delicate fragrance him goodbye. Despite my severely, I could not but
admire the fineness of the King Nanar, and confessed, back in myself,
that was the most comm'il faut that I had tried in my life.

The King I stayed in his palace, I gave lavish parties, and I was distracted in such a way that
almost made me forget the object of my mission. We had a concert and a dance, and a dinner style
that gave Baltasar many years later. I did not dare to ask King what he had done in Parsondes.
I did not understand that a man so excellent, that he entertained
and regaled guests with elegance and courtesy that, had been killed
or had in hard captivity of my dear teacher.

Finally, one night I plucked up all my restraint and resolve, and told Nanar, on behalf the King
my master, who at the time was going to say where was the virtuoso Parsondes if not want to lose
the kingdom and life. Nanar, instead of answering, he brought the point to all cantatrice the
Bayadere and was in the palace: it is understood that off-campus, harem or whatever you call,
reserved for their wives. The Milita such priestesses moved from nine hundred, and were the
most beautiful and skillful that could hardly be found in all Asia. The girls came dancing,
singing and playing flute, finger cymbals and harps, it was a matter
of taste to see them and hear them.

I sat rapt. Nanar he said, and here was the more my amazement:

- Behold the holy Parsondes among these women. Parsondes, come here and greet your former student.

Went
out from the center of that crowd one female, were it not for the beard, had could be confused
with women. He wore black painted eyebrows, eyelids blue, in order to shine more eyes and cheeks
covered with lipstick. It was all perfumed her dress was almost as rich as the King, his effeminate
and languid gait, his ears hung exquisite earrings, from his throat a necklace of pearls encircled
her forehead a wreath of flowers.

It was the same Parsondes, who threw her arms around his neck.

- I am, I said, well other than he was before. Return, if you want to Susa, but do not say I live
it, that wizards do not be offended, and to continue taking a recent example of holiness to
appeal. Nanar avenged my rough and unkempt making me a prisoner under and sending me soaping
and scrubbing with a scouring pad. After washing my continued and perfuming twice a day, giving
me a hitch, and forcing me to be with all these bright young ladies, where I ended up forgetting
my Zoroaster and austere preaching, and convinced that in this life time we must have the
best possible without engaging in the lives of others. Care Agenos kill the donkey, and none more
so than who mixes in censoring the vices of others, if only it lacks
the opportunity to into them, or when, if they have not fallen, it
must be out of ignorance, bad taste and rustiqueza.

I put my hands on the ears to hear such blasphemy from the mouth of that wise admirable. I was desperate
and angry to see him become a bon vivant, with their points and collar of shameless rascal,
but to avoid scandalous gossip, I decided to advise the school of wizards to continue arguing
that Parsondes had risen to the empyrean, and to continue venerating
his image, without discovering never before flatly denying that he
lived with Parsondes the dancers of Babylon in the palace of Nanar. But there
is no difficulty whatever in telling the male from the female of the English sparrow. The male
is far the more ornate bird. His back is striped with a richer brown; his head has two splendid
dashes of chestnut over the eyes; his throat and breast are splashed with red and lustrous
black; his bill is a clear fine black. Altogether the bird is strikingly colored for a sparrow,
and this characteristic is the more remarkable when we see how quiet and somber is his more
modest mate. This brilliancy of male plumage in the presence of the somber color of his mate
would seem to indicate that the English sparrow is eye-minded rather than ear-minded. It is
true among human beings that most of them are eye-minded. That is to say, they notice things
with their eyes chiefly. Memories they have are memories of things seen; recollections of their
friends bring up the appearance of their friends. Their language is full of metaphors which
imply form and shape. But occasionally we come across an ear-minded person. He remembers voices
quite as well as he remembers faces. To him music is an unending delight, and painting and
sculpture fall into a distinctly secondary place. This is ear-mindedness. Now, most of the
sparrows seem to be ear-minded, at least as far as their recognition of their mates are concerned.
In this group beauty of song is developed many times oftener than is especial ornateness of
plumage. The bird-lover who is himself keen of ear is never tired of listening, when in the
field, for the two low notes with which the vesper sparrow introduces a song, the rest of which
is not at all unlike the one of his song-sparrow cousin. The field sparrow begins more like
the song sparrow, but ends with an often repeated note, which not a little resembles in general
character the somewhat more monotonous song of the grasshopper sparrow or of the chippy. In
comparison with these melodious birds the English sparrow makes no showing whatever. His voice
is harsh and querulous, although very occasionally it is possible for the bird-lover to detect
a note or two which would indicate that, if he were properly educated, his voice might amount
to something. He wins his wife not by his pleasant voice, but by his attractive appearance
and his winning ways. We have every right to infer from the character of its fellow birds of
the sparrow family that once the female and male sparrow were colored about alike. But Madam
English Sparrow was apparently eye-minded rather than ear-minded. Whatever pleasant voice a
suitor might have seems to have been to her without attraction, and there was nothing to encourage
him in developing it, nor was she likely to mate with him for it and transmit it to her male
children. On the other hand, let a suitor appear in whom a more brilliant coloring proclaimed
his superior vigor, and this seems to catch her eye at once. The less accomplished rival in
the tournament of love seems to have been already forgotten. To their children these successful
characteristics were naturally handed on and led to equal success on their part. If any of
these children possessed this badge of honor in a more than ordinary degree, he was the more
likely to win a mate and thus again the opportunity of passing on to his offspring his own
distinct advantage. Generation by generation the males have become more beautiful and the females
more discriminating. That the bird is either instinctively or actually conscious of this advantage
would appear from the constant fluffing of his feathers and spreading of his highly colored
wings with which he evinces his admiration for his ladylove. Even the most hardened dweller
in the city can scarcely have failed to see the sparrow spread his wings, fluff his feathers,
and sink close to the ground, twirling and gyrating about the object of his affection. It must
give him a shock to see how often she proves temporarily or hypocritically indifferent to the
demonstrative proceedings. Indeed they may terminate in a thorough trouncing of the male on
the part of the lady of his affections. Now this preference for color over song must have evidently
evolved in connection with the development of social habits in the English sparrows. His cousins
of the fields, our native sparrows, are much less social, much less likely to be met with in
flocks. To birds who scatter more, beautiful song is a great advantage. It can be heard at
a long distance. But when birds flock together a much better advantage is that of beautiful
clothing, added to alluring ways.

But we have not nearly exhausted the catalogue of the traits belonging to our little friend
which give him the advantage over other birds in the struggle for life. His ability to remain
with us in winter when most birds are gone stands him in good stead.

It is readily observed by one who pays the least attention to outdoor life that winter finds
us with comparatively few birds. North of Maryland and the Ohio River the robin is practically
absent in the winter, except in much diminished numbers close to the border. The bluebird is
similarly absent; the great flocks of blackbirds are gone; the bobolink is missing entirely;
the thrush and the catbird have all left; the flicker and red-headed woodpecker are also spending
their winter in the South. Nowhere is a soldier,
  police officers in number, tolerant and humble, in contrast with
  other nations, scarcely show themselves, refraining very good
  practice that series of attacks on individual liberty that seems
  to be their primary school in some countries.
  

  The power brokers in Switzerland, starting with the president the
  Federal Confederation, are extremely humble and modest.
  I have known two-Herosée Colonel Frey, and Dr. Furrer, both educated,
  modest, statesmen, honest and straight. Unknown luxury, as the
  last living city, and mixed with everyone. They have six thousand
  fr. annual salary!

  
  The statistic, which is the true story of the people, presented
  in the old Helvetia in regard to instruction and characters
  morality's own civilization, data dildos, enviable figures.

  
  
  Among the most notable lakes of Switzerland, Excel and excels
  The Lucerne, Catholic city, and one of the first. In all
  hours is the traveler coming to Lucerne prettiest vapors
  and economically comfortable lead you to the most Switzerland's
  picturesque sites.

  During the summer, foreigners from all countries, ie all travelers
  Europe, cross the lake of Lucerne.
  
  The town of Thun [12], five leagues from Berne, has also a beautiful
lake, as are all of the country, homeland them.

  Thun has a beautiful hotel in Buenavista and is delicious surrounded
  by mountains.
  
  Geneva, a city the most advanced Swiss Confederacionon, is no dispute
  under the literary one of the first centers in Europe. Calvin
  founded a university. Library Geneva's main contains 60,000
  volumes. Home to many remarkable men, including Rousseau,
  Calvin, Madame de Stael, Lesage, Huber and many others,
  kept their traditions today literary. There in Geneva a number
  of newspapers political, reading rooms, literary societies,
  academies and other intelligence centers, shining in its midst
  many distinguished men.

  There I met many teachers eminent political and Fazy. The
  best ride in Geneva is the of the island with a statue dedicated
  to Rousseau.
  
  Under the political aspect is the real capital Geneva Federal:
  Berne truth is that the government lies, true that there meets Federal
Assembly, but it is less than Berne nothing is said or discussed and
Geneva: the city Calvin dramatize everything political, the discussion
remains always lively.

  
  
  Trade in Geneva is also more important than Bern accrue within
  three years the importance of this city ​​with the railroad that
  will link with Lyon, is now completed and opened to the public:
  there are hotels like the eSCelente of London on Lake Leman.

  The best hotels Berne is the de la Couronne and the Faucon.

Lake
  Geneva is delicious [13]: crossed by cute comfortable steam,
  making the crossing of Lausanne offers a show admirable. Comfort
  and economy is the traveler to go to Geneva from Lausanne on the
  lake: the glance is admirable is the highest head of Mont Blanc,
  the Glaciers, Chamouny, the Alps.

  
  
  The Geneva meeting should certainly watch the penalty seen, are
  built one hundred thousand watches each year, almost all stores offer
the country watches.

  Switzerland exports many thousands throughout Europe and
  America.
  
  Freiburg, Catholic city also has a walking and amazing surroundings,
almost all foreign visitors Switzerland, are directed to hear the
famous Freiburg bodies the cathedral and see his bold suspension bridge.

  
  
  The lakes of Interlaken and Brienz, near Thun, that the eleven seen
  from Righi, that of the four corners, all because that's the truth,
all surely deserve a trip: have the lakes a special beauty that seduces
and falls.

  
  
  Nothing is more admirable than their appearance: they are
  almost all surrounded by clear blue-white snow-capped mountains:
  tranquility of the gentle blue waves that cross prettiest vapors,
  the clear blue sky that serves as dome, enclosed by towering
  mountains that serve as framework, such as Interlaken, make the lake
a deliciosísimo pleasure that the imagination is not enough, that
only their view offers.

  
  
  The splendid and numerous hotels all over Switzerland found, none
  of Europe served as the most luxurious admirable road opulence,
  opulence and say because that name befits a country where everywhere
  are increasing: how comfortable and well arranged its docks proceedings,
  all attached to its picturesque sites make of Switzerland in the
summer choose residence of all European travelers.

  
  
  The Swiss, who in spite of his very short public wealth, its negligible
  taxes and has as its exaggerated modesty great number of road-models,
  and also entered in the improvement of railways, and is not the
  whole country ferrous cross roads because no pecuniary resources,
nothing else, and because the terrain is mountainous throughout.

  
  
  Despite the substantial costs of the works required nature, and
  very few elements of the country, and cuéntanse open to the public
  and five different lines in operation, that although short
  extension is very useful. From Basel or Basel leave two, of Zurich
  other, and the Lausanne é Yverdun remaining, besides the Geneva to
Lyon.

  It works much its continuance, and undertake new ones.
  
  What is a real secret to the traveler, is the admirable state
  of all roads in Switzerland, notwithstanding that Nowhere is a road
worker, policeman or something similar.

  
  
  It certainly seems like magic: the Swiss neither has nor can
  hold more than a small number of employees in ratio to its extremely
  easy organization and his modesty and lack of resources combined:
  with hard work is a road worker for the few out there. It is extremely
  rare to see one: well, in spite of all, no better roads in Europe.
  The security offer is absolute, one year I lived in Switzerland
  soon, throughout that time has not even committed a robbery,
  or an attempt.

  As with this case and on the roads: navvies admirable no, absolutely
  sure without a gendarme.
  
  The meadows and fountains abound everywhere: do not go around
  twenty steps across the territory of the Confederation without
  find graceful houses and poetic meadows.

  Arguably, the population resides in rural areas. In this circumstance,
  joined to valleys, waterfalls, lakes and mountains, travel
  by Helvetia former are a real pleasure.
  
  Of the three million people that are coming soon the nation, there
  is a third of Catholics: the rest composed of Protestants and
  Jews, few in number. The Protestantism in Switzerland, is, as elsewhere,
  divided in countless sects, each of which claims to possess the true
... which is enough to judge, but in Switzerland there true religious
tolerance, and all religions are respected and stimulate each other.

  
  
  In Bern, a city that I ordinarily inhabited as residence of the
  diplomatic corps, there is only one church Catholic, others,
  including the Cathedral, are intended to Protestant worship,
  which lacks the ceremonies and solemnities all kinds. During
  the summer, concerts are given in Cathedral, as in a theater, in
order to listen to the foreigners held that church body.

  
  
  The civil and criminal legislation of each canton is different;
  such as language and religion.

  Among many other Case I had the curiosity to read, highlighting
  the following for its originality.
  
  A Swiss citizen of the canton of Zurich, resident in the Schwitz,
  the oldest of the Helvetia, manufactured forty coins false, twenty
  cents each value, which reduced to our way of counting,
  is the paltry sum of thirty reais. Discovered his crime and was
  imprisoned, has been sentenced to "five days of fasting in prison,
  estrangement of the canton of ten years and forty sticks. "This
  testuale is the tenor of the sentence.

  I had an opportunity like this to read each other in different
  cantons. As the original document I have deemed it down in
  my book.
  
  This statement, with many of this kind, which often uttered
  in Switzerland, gives a very bad idea culture of the people in general.
  Despite this, the state of country is flourishing, and more reduced
crime statistics elsewhere in Europe.

  Can this be explained? hard: this is one of the many phenomena of
  life offers people a whole, and beyond analysis.
  

  Swiss universities are three: Basel, Zurich and Bern: the 1855, were
  attended by 166 students of medicine, 350 theology, 400 and
  500 right philosophy.

  
  Publicans in Switzerland 225 newspapers in the three languages
  ​​of the country, German, Italian and French, there are different
  libraries, literary societies and academia.
  
  Geneva, as I have already pointed out, is the first city in
  the Swiss Confederation, considered as the center of literary illustrations
of the country, such as residence politicians more advanced.

  As soon as they complete the railway lines to be met Lyon and Geneva
  to Bern, the home of Madame de Stael, important and in every respect,
  prodigiously augment in significance.
  

  The peaceful character of the Swiss breeds peculiar feature of Germanic,
  which makes them so controllable in any occasion you I studied
  better than in all town meetings Sundays.
  
  Hotels in second and third order, are gathering regularly
  large number of families, women, children and spouses. It sit
  peacefully next to a table, drink his indispensable beer, talk,
  laugh, sing in chorus, but never dispute. It matters very little
  beer with their action flammable, can heat the brain, that
  matters little a piece, and at different tables, sometimes gathered
  there three hundred people who smoke, sing and drink, no matter no
bottle is broken, no seat is damaged, no contest, all usual and quietly
retire to their homes to reconvene on Sunday.

  
  
  Apply this practice to our Latin race, whether it be French, Italian
  or Spanish, to the half hour of meeting have been puzzled about
  some of the guests, and every time drinking together there are
  disputes. This difference property, applying it in the highest
  sense and important, somehow explains the ease with which they
  govern Germanic race and the cause of almost continuous disturbances
Latin peoples.

  
  
  The year 1855, according to official data, were held in Switzerland
  16.270 marriages: the number of children born in that year was
  of 363.40, and the girls that of 33.660, which forms a total 70.000
  infants. It is well known, and we say elsewhere, that total
  population of the old Helvetia not reach three million. The deaths
  occurred in the same year of 1855 were number of 55.500 people.
  Marriages can be calculated rate of one for every 147 inhabitants,
  born for every 34, and one death for every 43 people. Male gender,
  contrary to usually happens in other climates, unless you
  live in Switzerland females, nor are many examples of longevity in
no sex.

  
  
  With respect to their industry, which somewhere else we take care,
we need to add very valuable data on trade in 1856 has made the United
States of America.

  
  
  In the twelve months of 1856, remittances to Switzerland United States
  of America the following items: watches, amounting to 2,404,575
  dollars, in silk, worth 4,875,636 dollars, in cotton and embroidered
  items, worth of 641.927 dollars, in hats, silk ribbons, worth 444.135,
  total remittances of 8,368,074 dollars, each dollar is 20 r., 20
mrs.

This crecidísima sum for a small country like Switzerland, product
of their trade with one nation, shows palpably how great the progress
of industry, benefit their artifacts sold in all countries and big
promotes trade.

  In watches, the city of Neuchatel alone, according to official
  data, built in 1856 1,600,000 watches: Watch this extraordinary
  figure the huge number of watches made in Geneva, and understand
  the immense importance of his watch.
  
  Wyss Echer's house and company in Zurich, which industrial establishments
  occupy half of the city district, provides employment to
  3,000 workers, and above all go home beautiful day and excellent
  steam equipment all kinds.

  The silk also is another booming industry that thrives
  in the same canton.
  
  In 1855 there were fifteen establishments Swiss bank, or rotation,
  with a capital of 64 million francs, the circulation ticket in
  that year was valued at 10 million Franks and the total turn around
the year amounted to 1,354,111,309 fr., very very respectable and
very high according to population and social wealth in Switzerland.

  The credit enjoyed by the nation, thanks to their governments and
  excellent scholars and excellent institutions is the most enviable,
  and has been virtually because of the issue with Prussia, having
  been offered to Swiss bankers from all countries much money could
  need.
  
  The industry is also booming in Switzerland and a enviable
  state of prosperity, there everything is improved, all progresses,
  the shadow of good laws faithfully executed.
  
  Is known in Europe and America watches admirable Geneva, then to have
them around the world with their finishes products, increases every
day the city's wealth, embellishes its great shopping and increases
the wealth of ilustradísima wise and Geneva, which is up around his
prodigious Lake superb modern building, that have nothing to envy
to the best of any other capital of Europe.

  Geneva, which excels in Europe for academies and wise, which has
  a literary life, which keeps traditions, which is heavily embellished
  by nature with Mont Blanc, the lake, and its admirable decoration,
has, in addition to his brilliant watches, other many advanced industries,
also excelling in all Europe in the art of mounting diamonds and all
that relates to jewelry.

  
  
  The canton of St. Gall [14] has its lace and held lace, cutting-edge
  industry that each day more prosperous.
  
  The canton of Zurich in 1855 dealing in the manufacture of silk
  30.000 workers, counting 24.000 looms.
  
  The city of Basel, industrious and very well for excellence trade
  is one of the richest of Switzerland. Its capital, Basel
  has many reputable business houses, roads iron to France,
  Germany and central Switzerland, banks and industrial, commercial
  and many relationships ever-increasing wealth and prosperity. Great
  mills paper and silk, musical instruments are manufactured.

The
  canton of Solothurn, mostly Catholic, differs also with gas plants,
cotton, snuff, and wallpapers.

  
  

  The canton of Glarus excels and stands out for its excellent cloth
  factories, is very industrious and also that of Neuchatel.

  
  
  The main rivers in Switzerland are the Rhine, the Aar, the Reuss,
  the Orbe, and Sane, between the lakes of memories is that
  of Bienne, near Bern, which was Rousseau.
  
  The canton of Ticino, flourishing agriculture, factories straw hats,
great wealth, Catholic.

  It has also, as all corners of the picturesque Helvecia, its quiet,
  poetic lakes, among which are the Mayor, who had the sitting
  like a long time to admire its banks with a book in hand.

  
  
  The canton of Solothurn, which bathes the Aar capital, is trade has
cotton mills, gas, snuff and other industries: Thurgau, industrial
and manufacturing, many factories silk fabrics: Schaffhausen, capital
of the canton of the same name and country of the great historian
Muller, has also much trade along the Rhine

In Lausanne, one of the
cantons that stand out for their literary and pious establishments,
there is a school blind worth visiting and object of admiration deserved.

Founded

  with high education and Christian thought and pick up the unhappy
  deprived of essential organ of sight, no question to any of
  its sponsors what your nationality: support and pick up all the blind
that are presented in any country and religion they are, have that
great circumstances.

  
  
  The year 1855, when I resided in Switzerland, entered the 207 Lausanne
  establishment of blind: this large number only 47 paid for their
  attendance, being educated and fed charge by the establishment of
  the remaining 160 number who entered the year.

  
  
  The school has a local great, great teachers very good food, sage
  system, hygiene, admirable practices, and finally, as may be
  desired. The blind learn music and languages, between different
  subjects that make up the teaching, the school has very good machines
to teach music and is truly an admirable institution.

  
  
  The Swiss people is stunning, simple, patriarchal, pastor, laborious,
cultivator, pious, patriotic, soldier, and above and as serving as
a crown, free, essentially free, happy people!

  God by his holy ensure independence forever! A people that has
  such great history must be free and has indisputable right to
  be. I shall record here in my book a gold page in your history
  book, that page is opened November 17, 1307, the date memorable,
  everlasting time.
  

  The day November 17, 1307 met thirty eminent patriots founders of
  Switzerland: the site choose to hold their meeting was the picturesque
  Grutli promontory, which I visited with pious reverence, and
  there with heavy hearts in the presence of God; resolved to
  create a village, spoke the following oath

"We swear before God,
before whom the Kings and peoples are equal, to fight and die for
our brothers, to act and feel in common, no threats of violence or
injustices committed ourselves not to respect the rights and property
of the Earl of Hapsbourg, to do no harm to the viceroys, but to put
an end to his tyranny.

  "
  
  Sublime and noble oath fulfilled! founding the independence
  of the magnificent Switzerland, May God always keep open.
  The first who gave the Grand oath so eloquent, so moral, so patriotic,
  were the distinguished patrician Walter Furst, Stauffacher, Melchthal,
  Werner, Switzerland August name recognized that the saved and saved
forever in his memory.

  
  
  At the meeting of November 17, 1307, it was agreed that the day the
  general uprising was on 1 January 1308.
  
  In the village of Altorf, which I visited twice, took place Gesler
  and tremendous scene with William Tell, which was precision Point
  and shoot his arrow at the apple placed on the his son's head ...
one of the most barbarous tortures taxes have never been to any parent.

In

  the same village Altorf, there is a stone fountain crowned
  the statue of Tell shooting an arrow.
  
  Switzerland is the modern Arcadia, William Tell was a fisherman,
  his village belongs to the canton of Uri, than with Schwitz
  and Unterwald up the first three cantons that formed the
  League and the foundation of Swiss nationality.

  These three cantons joined the first, Lucerne, Zurich, Glarus,
  Zug and Bern: the end of the fifteenth century, entered the league
  to reinforce the cantons of Solothurn and Fribourg, Basel and Schaffhausen
  Apenzel were admitted into it at the start of the sixteenth
  century.
   Most of us have at some time sucked the nectar from the back of
a torn honeysuckle blossom and approved the taste of the butterfly in this matter. If the airy
creature be watched as it lights upon a flower, it will not be difficult to see it uncurl this
long tongue and probe the depths of the flower. If the butterfly be taken in the hand and the
tip of a pin inserted in the center of the coiled tongue, it can be uncoiled without the slightest
harm to the butterfly.

Insects which wish to use for their food the juices of other animals or of plants do not find
them so easy to gather. In the mosquito most of the mouth parts are developed into slender
pointed bristles wrapped in a hind lip. These bristles serve to puncture the skin of the creature
attacked, while the curled lip serves as a tube through which the blood may be extracted.

If, while sitting on the porch on a warm summer evening, mosquitoes begin to annoy, let one
of them at least serve to show his method of procedure before he is destroyed. Allow the creature
to alight upon the back of your hand and slowly raise the arm until the eye looking at near
range can see the head of the mosquito, which, by the way, is sure to be a female. Males in
this species are entirely harmless. They never eat after they have grown up; that is, after
they are truly mosquitoes. But the female is very assiduous. Alternately raising and lowering
her lancets from either side, she pierces, then saws, her way down through the flesh until
she has buried her instruments in her victim and her head rests against her prey. Now a pumping
motion of the abdomen will be apparent, and this continues its accordion-like action until
it becomes more and more distended. The insect only gives up its task when the entire abdomen
is swollen into a great red ball of blood. The mosquito will now slowly withdraw its instruments
and retire from the scene, if permitted to do so. If there is any fear of annoyance from the
bite, a drop of ammonia immediately applied will counteract any irritation which would have
been produced by the saliva of the mosquito. The insect is not intentionally vicious in this
procedure. It is simply gathering its own natural food, though this does not make it less annoying
to us since we are its victims. The swelling produced after the bite is the result of the action
of the saliva the mosquito injected into the wound. The opening through the tongue is so small
that blood would readily clot inside the tube and prevent its further usefulness, did not the
mosquito inject the secretion of its salivary glands into the wound. This acts upon the blood
in such a way as to prevent its coagulation.

Anyone who thinks carefully can add numberless specializations for food getting. For instance,
primitive mammals have little pointed teeth which fit them for feeding on insects. In each
of the great order of mammals a special development of these teeth has occurred. Among the
rodents or gnawing animals the front teeth have become long and chisel-shaped for nibbling.
The horse has formed them for nipping, and his hind teeth for grinding. In the dog the teeth
near the front have become long for tearing his flesh food, while his hind teeth, working with
the motion of scissors, cut it into pieces.

A second great class of specialization is seen in the changes of habit that provide the animal
with shelter. The home seems so necessary a part of human life that it is almost impossible
to think of an animal having nothing that in the faintest degree could be called a home. We
at least expect it to have some sheltered place in which it passes most of its time and to
which it returns after its wanderings. An ugly guy, but nice: one day he had heard tell a very
funny happened. Then she talked about a dress she planned to be done, light-colored velvet
trimmed with crimson, an idea that had happened to her without refer to the dressmaker, was
sure he had to like a lot. But suddenly turned itself and said quick word and dry:

- Come on, ... the tissue of the girl sixteen, eh?

- Yes, ma'am.

- Is forty-three ... Have you bought V. soap?

- Nothing more than a pill ... I do not remember if the lady had sent to buy two or ...

- I had had to buy two, but no matter ... Where has put V.?

- In the bedroom, on the night table.

In pronouncing these words came into the bedroom to find the pill.

When he approached the table, uttered a cry of terror.

Miguel was stiff at the bottom of hiding.

The General, haggard voice asked from out:

- What is it, Carmen?

- Miss ... a man's hat on your bed!

There was a moment of silence, during which the heart was jumping Miguel terrible. The General
soon recovered.

- And so it scares V., silly? ... Stirring my closet, I stumbled on that hat Mr., I do not know
how he came to give him ... I interfered and I got it ... If V. wants
and can take some of it, take it ... is useless.

- Thank you, Miss
- said the girl, leaving his hat in his hand .-- I have a brother
who would serve maybe ...

Nothing more was said about it.

The General has continued to take the calm, pale face, the voice a little upset.

Miguel was needed to leave that night without a hat. He waited a while in the neighboring portal
and got into the rental car first hit to cross.

Finally yielded to the general's wishes, strongly expressed by her lover, and was entrusted
the maid. Since then, his interviews were easy and peaceful. Carmen prevented them with art
all molestation, provided them full security and peace. With this new order of things he settled
very well our hero seemed they had taken a great weight shoulders, in fact too expensive bought
before the pleasures that his friend gave him.

But the general's not got along so well with the quiet and prosaic bias taking his love; security,
stopwatch accuracy of quotations, the kind that they enjoyed calm, the lost heart, began to
bore her, and she weighed herself that Carmen had been paid so willingly to serve. All life
had the skinny on the adventures, but late this hobby has been exacerbated in a remarkable manner,
felt an appetite voracious extraordinary, as if he escaped the youth and I can not conclude without
a big hit. So you can not satisfy with tragic scenes dream because Miguel laughed at his fears,
God exercise his overheated imagination in other kinds of whims rare.
Nothing could be done in their relations in a normal way, was forced
marinate all with some sort of mystery. In the theaters, to communicate
any news, can speak without hindrance, he preferred to use a number
of Masonic signs or signals made mysterious fan, gloves, twins and
other utensils of which was sometimes no little confusion and perplexity
to Miguel. The letters he wrote were always signed with name of man,
Alfredo, as if they were from a friend to another, but why not let
you come dotted with all sorts of passionate phrases, "I loves with
all his heart ... Alfredo. "" Beloved of my soul, minutes away from
you become and ever ... "" Yesterday, watching the moon from the balcony
of my room I was struck by the memory night ride we have taken a few
days ago and felt the tears sliding down my face ... "

Young mammals and birds, before their clothing has well formed, are naturally susceptible to
cold; this leads to the first genuine approach to a home among animals lower than man. Birds
lay their eggs long before the creatures inside of them are ready to emerge. Accordingly they
have learned to build nests in which to place these eggs, and to protect them from the outside
air; meanwhile the bird keeps the eggs warm by close contact with its own body. The lowest
of the birds may lay their eggs simply on the ground without any special protection. As we
rise in the scale of the bird world we find nests provided for the eggs. These nests become
increasingly complex and specialized, until we reach the oriole's home with its wonderfully
woven mass of fiber, which, in spite of its apparent looseness, supports well the weight of
the mother bird and of her eggs. The robin, not content with making a woven basket, plasters
it with clay, and makes an absolutely impervious nest. Not otherwise be understood.

The story is relatively modern, for, as my friend, have yet to discover legends and stories in
Proto-Iberian, oldest and most venerable Egyptian poem Pentaur about a feat or Rans Sesostris
II, and that the poems found by our known Mr. Layard diplomat in the library of Ashurbanipal in
Nineveh archaic poems and eight centuries BC, and translated most of the sacred language of the
Akkadians, then so dead like Latin with us now.

And this should not wonder, because according Roisel at The Atlantis, all culture comes from
these, before been in Chaldea, Assyria, in Egypt or at any point of the East.

It is unfortunate that we still have no documents of the Golden Age or Golden Age of Atlantic Parisian
literature of place some eight thousand years, or the emanation of that bética culture, implemented
by the banks of the Guadalquivir turdetanos.

The document found, deciphered, explained and commented by Don Juan
Fresco is relatively time fresh, as it were of yesterday morning.

Iberian and indigenous culture had declined and Spain were full of
even Phoenician and Greek colonies.

Those had already founded Zazinto Sagunto, and for over a century
they founded the Tyre to Malaga, Abdera, Hispalis and Gades. It was
for the years 1000, BC vulgar, on more or less.

II

Vescio was an
important city of the Confederation of Turduli. They may brave it out, hunting for their food as best they can all winter long. Such
a course is pursued by the rabbit. Again like the squirrel, they may store large quantities
of food during the summer, and on this provender they may subsist during winter, remaining
for most of the time near their hiding-places, which, however, they may frequently leave upon
warm days. The same was then between individuals in the State. In No country can say
with more truth than in Spain, it is not known where the money goes. By late Austrian dynasty
which had ruled over the world's best, Madrid was (let me vulgar expression) a cattle pen. Where were
the palaces, temples, monuments, statues? Anywhere. What we spend the wealth of America? What
used the loot of the subjugated peoples?

The destitution we worked so much or more than in the day, and humbled us destitution and made
us lowering of the height at which we had set.

On this day, the upward movement of European civilization itself bears us, and can not be denied
that in the midst of a thousand disappointments, one thousand two
hundred thousand troubles and mortifications of national pride, Spain
progresses and improves, but it costs good whipping.

Clumsiness in producing and slurred spend more to blame for these scourges.

I am a rabid theoretical free-forex trader. Bastiat and Cobden have convinced me, but in I'm
scared practice of free trade. What is in Spain that can compete freely with foreign products?
The wine perhaps, and with everything except the sherry, the other wine Spanish usually go
to France, I throw a little juice of berries, and alum root lily, and we will re-sell, giving
us a single bottle in the price we receive one or two or three arrobas.

That is, we take fifty or sixty bottles with the same liquid, with the slight modification of
the alchemist or apothecary.

What sea of ​​wine, laughed oil which will not have to spend any rich lady to Andalusian buy a
house dress Worth? Well, what if the lady is of Almeria and has to buy the Worth gown with esparto product?
Then you have to peel and strip hundreds square leagues to wear her beautiful and graceful body.
In almost all our changes, more or less free, we can say the same
thing. Until the price of transportation is harmful to us, establishing
fatally natural and right guard against our bulky and heavy crude
goods. The eye detects, with ease, objects
in motion. These same objects might entirely escape attention were they quiet. A mouse could
remain in the corner of a room for a long time without attracting the eyes of the occupants
of the room. Let it but scamper across the corner, and at once it is discovered. It is quite
conceivable that early animals were divided in the matter; that the impulse of some was to
escape from danger, while others, frightened by the presence of the enemy, remained absolutely
still. Each plan has succeeded. Those which, on running, ran fast enough to escape became the
parents of others like themselves, led eventually to a line of animals in whose speed lay their
safety. Those, however, which attempted to escape, and failed because they were not swift enough,
had their line cut off, and were thus less likely to be represented in the following generation.
The constant result of errors along this line would be to destroy the slow and preserve the
swift, and in the course of time it is quite thinkable that only the swift should remain. As
the movements grew more and more keen, even the slower of these would pass out, thus tending
always to produce the succeeding generation from those who were most rapid, and hence most
likely to transfer to their children a similar power.

But there is another tendency of animals which leads them when frightened by their enemies
to remain quiet. If this impulse is obeyed thoroughly enough, it is easy to see how the owner
of this habit might entirely escape detection by his enemy. Any restless animal unable to restrain
his nervous agitation naturally betrays his presence and is picked off. The result of evolution
along this line would be the exact reverse of the preceding. Those that lay most absolutely
quiet would be the parents of succeeding generations, while those who were slow in coming to
rest, or were indifferent about remaining quiet, were picked off, and their tendency eliminated
from the future of the species. In this way many animals have come to keep entirely quiet in
the presence of danger. It is not a sign of high intelligence. As a matter of fact, it is rather
a stupid procedure, so far as the animal itself is concerned, but it is a preserving stupidity,
and many animals have it.

The "June Bug" (which is not a bug, but a beetle, and arrives in May) has this interesting
habit of keeping quiet. If in its flight it strikes the globe of an electric light, it falls
at once to the ground, and remains perfectly quiet for a time. After a short interval it recovers
and starts out to regain its previous activity. But this recovery is by slow stages, and the
whole procedure on its part looks exceedingly stupid.

The little snake with flattened and expanded head, known as the blowing viper, or puff adder,
is one of the most amusing representatives of the tendency to "play dead" that could well be
found. If you strike him the faintest blow with the lightest stick, he at once goes into apparent
convulsions, in which he seems to suffer the greatest agony. Then, throwing himself upon his
back, he, to all appearances, yields up the ghost. If, however, you retire but a slight distance
and keep your eye upon him, you find that his ghost returns after a comparatively short absence,
and he slinks away out of danger. This is the most effective exhibition of this kind with which
I am acquainted.

As for the habit of "playing 'possum" on the part of our opossum, the trick would seem to be
particularly inane. The truth of the matter is, what is attributed to an unusual brilliancy
on the part of the creature is positively unusual witlessness. The animal has an exceedingly
small brain, as compared with that of a dog of similar size, and to anyone who knows brains
at all this particular organ would not be looked upon as furnishing its owner much ability.
The fact is that the opossum has exceedingly small wit, and this little deserts it in an emergency,
as a result of which he grows helpless and motionless. This is often supposed to indicate great
wisdom. There may be wisdom in it, but it is the wisdom that lies back of all nature. It certainly
is not the wisdom of the opossum.

Man himself possesses to a marked degree this impulse to keep quiet in danger. The man from
the country who is visiting the large city, suddenly startled by the "honk" of the auto horn,
finds his power of movement promptly arrested, and he is not unlikely to be struck and injured
by the machine from which the city dweller would easily escape. This is not particularly to
the credit of the city dweller, who, when in the country, may find himself similarly startled
by the sudden appearance of the calf, the pig, or the sheep. The bull, which a country boy,
accustomed to him from childhood, will drive with a willow switch, is a source of terrified
concern to the city man.

While the trick of keeping quiet serves many an animal in time of danger, there is another
device for escaping attention, far more common and widespread throughout the animal world.
The eye does not easily see an object if it is colored like the background against which it
stands. A host of animals find their main safety in being indistinguishable in color from the
surface on which they live. There are many biologists who seriously question whether protective
coloration, as Darwin called it, is as effective as he believed it. In some quarters it is
the present fashion to doubt protective coloration entirely. No one has yet shown any principles
which will better explain the great color scheme of the animal world, and until such explanation
is forthcoming I believe it will not be wise for us to discard the idea of protective coloration.
No doubt it has been overworked by enthusiastic believers in its efficiency. At the same time,
to overlook it completely, is, I believe, to make a greater error. I have little doubt that
when the broader explanation comes, which will satisfactorily explain the color scheme of the
animal world, the idea of protective coloration will be found, not so much to have been wrong,
as to have been but partial. It will be included under the broader principle which takes its
place and will not be supplanted by it.

The idea of protective coloration is that very many animals have ordinarily come to be colored
like the background on which they live. The process has taken many generations, and is very
slow, but is none the less sure in the end. In most cases the animal is probably entirely unconscious
of this point in its favor, and usually it does nothing to assist the deception. The result
is none the less effective because the animals themselves are unconscious of the process. The
cabbage worm is green in color like the cabbage. This does not mean that it got green by eating
cabbage or by longing for greennesses. Through long years the enemies of the cabbage worm have
been picking it off the plants on which it fed. This does not imply that cabbages as we know
them are very old, but cabbage worms doubtless ate the leaves of the sea-kale long before man
had cultivated it into cabbage. 

  We crossed the ria of Southampton, the Bay of Biscay, Finisterre;
  we passed in front of Bordeaux, and the fourth day of travel
  we arrived at Lisbon.

  
  
  The Great Western steam led me, is a colossal vessel of 2.500 tons,
with an extension bridge and a prodigious wide and magnificent halls.

  
  
  We left England two hundred passengers, and each had comfortably
  his place in the table because the dining room is a Gorgeous salon.

  Cabins, double beds for the most part, are narrow and uncomfortable.

The
  treatment of travelers is good: at nine o'clock in the Breakfast
  is served lunch at noon the indispensable English lunch, which
  is equivalent to take the eleven, at four a abundant food, English
  for cash, at seven o'clock tea with bread and butter.

  
  
  From Southampton to Lisbon, all passengers were in bed clock. The
  sea of ​​England and the Bay of Biscay, constantly agitated, give
the ship a continuous movement no traveler support without discomfort.

  
  
  In Lisbon, we stopped twelve hours, then continuing our up by a sea
calm and quiet, go to the thirty six hours to Madera.

  
  
  This beautiful island enjoys a healthy climate and produces
  wine held in all the good tables are served, deserves trip. Only
  eight hours rest in Madera, in which time we visited part of
  the island, running on the slim and light horses and harnessed
  willing to await the seashore where travelers arrive. The rent for
  a moderate price, and with their help you enjoy the charm that produce
the picturesque landscapes that are offered everywhere.

  
  
  Wood Streets in costs for the most part, are to right and left
  gardens planted with fresh and lucid, which with flowers perfume
the air pure and fresh there breathing.

  
  
  The population is small and short-importance: there are two or three
hotels, including one that is regularly English served [34].

  
  

  Wood went out to Santa Cruz de Tenerife using forty and eight
  hours.
  

  I was coming from foreign countries go all, it was quite time remaining
  in Spain and had need to speak our splendid language and remember
  my beloved homeland.
  
  My desires were thwarted in part, we came to Santa Cruz to
  the eight p.m., and the captain had said that we only would stop
  long enough to drop off and pick up the correspondence, any traveler
jumped to the ground.

  I got even, speaking, until the ship left, with the Spanish
  who came on board in their small boats laden with oranges, apples,
  plums and other delicious fruits.
  
  In the shadows of the night, my eager look distinguished, but confusingly,
the city of Santa Cruz, symbolizing my eyes all over Spain, and greeting
with joy and excitement, the I lost sight of at the moment we continue
our long journey.

  
  

  Santa Cruz de Tenerife to San Vicente, Cape Verde, employ four days.

San
  Vicente, notable for me, being the first site in the world where
  I saw what they call slaves, wretched beings as worthy as the
  first free man, is a miserable place that has only a dozen houses,
  there is the Enterprise from the vapors deposit of coal: this
  is the cause of stopping at such a place, otherwise no one would
stop.

  
  
  Groups of African men, women, children, all naked almost
  completely, cut up the population of San Vicente. Hurts the soul
  and the heart compresses the appearance of such a place: the
  climate there, almost burning, and playing in Africa it is, makes
impossible any vegetation: missing earth, air, life, human beings,
everything is missing there.

  
  
  The number of African slaves who live there, is not more food
  than corn, and not all. No traveler to land in San Vicente do
  not feel bad at the sight of such a picture: that our steam
  immediately provided coal necessary, we left the Cape Verde islands
general contentment.

  
  
  Leaving San Vicente gave the first real trip, we engulfed in the
  ocean, alone, in the midst of the powerful Atlantic, with
  no more witnesses to God, no other horizon than a always the same
circle, closed on all sides by immensity.

  
  
  Leaving San Vicente, the traveler takes leave of the earth I never
see in eight days, the sea and sky are the only perspective in all
that time.

  
  
  There is something solemn and gorgeous in a sea voyage, by the arrogant
element tells of the dreadful infinity voice their anger.

  
  
  The sea, whose secrets remain a mystery, that our curiosity can not
  understand that science does not explain who speaks with his
  eternal motion before we can know what is what he tells us, the sea,
I say, is superbly majestic and large.

  
  
  The man, in spite of its small size has worked wonders giant, now
  pick up the lightning in his hand, now scuttling mountains, and
  descend into the bowels of the earth saved to steal their
  secrets, and climbing the sky to see monitor these ports that you
  are covered and whose progress has learned, the man who prints everywhere
footprint its passage, has not achieved anything from the sea.

  
  
  The courage of the sailors, to which human industry has houseboats
  paid to cross the solitudes of ocean; science, one after
  another has been supplied to the ocean new conquests, with which
  knows where it goes and why sites, the walks and where it is, the
  vapor, which has go fast and facilitated in all seasons,
  no as before having to submit to the powerful assistance of
  the winds in a word, has only served for men to communicate,
  to study and understand the world, great and mighty conquests, it
  is true, but not for printing the human footprint, but not stamped
  with the seal of genius as a man does with all his works.

  
  

  The sea, the mighty sea, perhaps too proud, does not want the
  point man.
  
  The man has changed a thousand times the earth planting cities,
  mountains cutting, excavating immense collaring isthmus: Well,
  the sea surface is now the next day as having sprung from
  the breath of God, and so will be up to the last and final moments
  of the world. Spend a magnificent ship by ocean waves, opening a
  sulcus, new waves move immediately and delete the trace,
  for That scream eternally around a ship, are impatient to to feel,
but once that passes are thrown to erase their traces.

  
  

  The ocean is the image of the vastness, the mirror of God, brilliant
  proof of their existence.

  
  Eight days I was alone in the ocean, with no other dome that sky,
with no other support than the abyss.

  
  

  It arrogantly reckless man's value has been released to blind in
  the middle of the cliffs and storms.

  
  
  I do not speak in any way today, today has no merit a trip around
  the world today everything is known, there are now media.

  
  I refer to Colon, great vantage of modern ages has
  no rival.
  
  It is necessary to make a trip to America to gain insight the heroism
  of Columbus, otherwise it is not understood, and most of the Colon
  heroism, of our brave compatriots composed the crew of her three
  small boats.
  
  Yes, they are more heroic, Colon had the genius, the ray inspiration,
  the prospect of the glory that has immortalized by a guide:
  he knew where he was going: the simple sailors who accompanied
  him, no, no beaches that were more familiar of Spain, could not even
dream of the existence of another world were seen thrown at a company
that unnerving to all, that Europe all described as madness, were
alone in the seas that no one but God's eye had seen, without knowing
where they went or why route: believing that the return would impossible,
believing with reason and ignoring at the same time if would have
arrived, because they knew nothing, because then know everything,
because no one knew what was behind the sea.

  Is necessary to make a sea voyage to understand this.
  
  From San Vicente to Pernambuco, the first population of Brazil, on
the other side of the line is, employed our steam eight days.

  
  

  The distance between two populations is 1.620 miles sea.
  
  Nothing bigger than the rising and setting sun seen from a ship
  in the ocean.

  The world looks like a huge star glowing ball of fire: there
  seems but rises the bosom of the seas, the illusion is complete.

The
  horizon is closed on all sides by a circle of water there,
  on board in the middle of the Atlantic, the figures imagination
  that the whole earth is covered by the ocean, only element which
  is, hence the it may seem, with all appearance of truth, that
  the sun rises in the morning bosom of the waters, and that
  she returns to bed when earth spinning in a vacuum has made his move
to newspaper around it.

  
  
  At sea one does not understand atheism: it is not explanation
  on earth, no, but the ocean, with their immortal voice, sometimes
  talking with pride wrath of the storm, now with the peaceful quiet
  majesty of his eternal ebb and flow, always publishes the existence
  of God, always touts its power, always sings his omnipotence, he
always speaks of eternity, forever explains the infinite, always convinced
the afterlife.

  
  
  These huge ships crossing the seas today, notwithstanding their gigantic
  proportions, are at sea, in relation to a atom in the art, that
  a point in space.

  One of the tremendous Ocean waves lull apart and becomes chips
  the most vibrant squares.
  
  This speaks volumes for the man, notwithstanding his smallness
  in the ocean that can be felt anywhere, Sulca dared launches
  its Piélagos and chasms, marching between storms and thunder, alone
in a miserable boat because that is the most colossal Ocean vessel,
a boat; there goes the man alone, but with God over his head.

  
  
  A sea voyage of eight to ten days is great, surprising, admirable:
it is necessary to ask to see and hear God, to understand the world,
to divine immensity.

  
  

  But do not be a long journey by vocation ocean is monotonous,
  fatigue, tired.
  
  In eight days you can admire the beauty of a blue sky transparent,
  seen from the sea, the sun's descent portentous his bright hair
  dipping into the bosom of the waters: the frightening and dramatic
  grandeur of the sea mightily irritated: in short, eight days may
be so in thirty, that were those that I employed in my journey, in
spite of the steam was the agent of our march.

  
  
  Such a long time on the bridge of a ship fatigue. At the end
  of first ten or twelve days the scenes are repeated, are same, no
emotions, and where there is no emotion, my food, nothing, there is
the mundane boredom.

  
  

  From Pernambuco to Bahia employ forty-eight hours, and from Bahia
  to Rio de Janeiro four days.
  
  The distance that had to travel from Southampton to the Brazil's
  capital, my first voyage, was of 5.155 miles, distributed as
  follows: Rio de Janeiro to Bahia, 685 miles, from Bahia
  to Pernambuco, 380; of Pernambuco to St. Vicente, 1.620, of San Vicente
to the Canary Islands, 850; the Canary Islands to Wood, 265; for Wooden
to Lisbon, 525, and from Lisbon to Southampton, 830.

  
  

  The test was good, I was lucky not to suffer dizziness making the
trip just fine.

  
  
  # BRASIL. #

  
  Rio de Janeiro, capital of the empire of Brazil, is a city 300.000
  souls, superbly located and with a superb and picturesque bay,
  one of the largest in the world.
  
  Its main streets are Rua and Rua Deret d'Ouvidor: The first of these
is wide and open, in the center is Exchange building, is busy street
and quite animation, has good shops and cafes on the square start
Palace and ends near a church whose name I have forgotten.

  
  
  La Rua d'Ouvidor is the main street of Rio de Janeiro, for the
  importance of exclusive shops that adorn it: it is straight and
  empties into the rua Deret, which, as I indicated, is the best in
  town. It has a large number of elegant shops, mostly French,
  dressed in luxury shops of European cities: the pavement is what
  more detestable than you can imagine, as rainfall is Frequently,
you can barely passable by that street.

  
  
  The rest of the streets of Rio de Janeiro, in general, is in a unfortunate
delay, unpaved, careless cleaning, and perfect state of neglect.

  
  
  There are a number of places, among which stands out for its
  great extension, that of the Provisional Theater. As lacking
  large buildings, and has no proportion, no trees, no culture, or
ornaments, only provides the traveler a view large tracts of land,
which could be a great place.

  
  
  In one of his paintings are the palaces of the Senate and House
  of Deputies. In the center of one of the fronts is the Ministry
  of Foreign Affairs, in a modest house not I dare to call the palace.

  Opposite stands the theater Temporary, for the Italian
  opera.
  
  The Theatre name sufficiently indicates what it is, provisional
  built in a short period of time, neither has architecture, no
  style, no forms, no thought, is a work executed without any other
object than it used almost time for theater, built meantime another
was not yet has begun.

  
  
  Anyway there is singing Italian opera, and is indeed a great resource
  for Rio de Janeiro: in general there is good companies, the government
  contributes to the maintenance of Theatre With a grant of
  eight thousand dollars annually. The company sang in 1856 was
  pretty good: the two prima donnas, Crane Mademoiselle and Madame
  Charton, very well interpreted their roles, as in any theater
  in Europe.

  After singing the Steffenone, which has recently excelled in
  the Italian Paris singing with great success the Troubadour.

  
  
  When I left Rio de Janeiro to return to Europe, were Tamberlik
  notarized and Dejean.
  
  Another of the places worth mentioning is that of Rosario, spacious,
  regular, and with a higher proportion than the Provisional. It
  has four regular exterior walls, and center have planted several
dozen trees that complete and beautiful.

  In one corner is the Theater of San Pedro, devoted to the play:
  they are represented in Portuguese, parts translated from French
  and Spanish. When I was in Rio de Janeiro a raging fire burned
  for the second time the coliseum.

  
  
  Another great place too, there is a public garden, where military
  bands come the holidays: There are a profusion of tropical trees
  and plants, and is regularly provided, but lack taste and order.

  
  
  The botanical garden, named after some modestly, is outside the
  city and at a distance of three quarters of a league. The more
  complete carelessness and neglect more contemptuous, convinced
  when you visit the little interest that will undoubtedly inspire
  Brazilians.
  

  And indeed it is a pity, because apart from the two superb superb
  collections of bananas that adorn contains a wealth of plants
  you choose and highly appreciated, that arise spontaneously,
  perhaps in spite of those who care the garden. It also has a wonderful
  natural furnishings, you circular and with a lovely canvas of
  picturesque mountains, many and graceful contours, variety of forms
  and colors.

  
  The tours of Rio de Janeiro, completely unnecessary, since inhabitants
  of the country do not usually walk, are regular, distinguishing
  between all the de Botafogo, located at the coast, with trees,
  fountains, and carriage ride. Is pretty good and very thinly
  attended. The Emperor walks all Sundays always crossing the
  carriage across Botafogo extension.
  

  Aqueduct rides, and Corcovado, are picturesque, especially the last,
  which ends on the crest of a high mountain angled, hence the name.
  Can horseback ride to the summit, from which this is achieved
  an astonishing glance: the calm sea, the picturesque mountains
  and city, are offered in all the majestic observer. Another Bay
  headland is embellished called Sugar Loaf, named for its shape.

One
  of the best Rio de Janeiro enjoyed enough ago , is the lighting
  of gas, which are lavishly lighted main streets and squares.

  Also the Square carriages are very good and there are big numbers;
  Prices to rent them fabulously expensive. Different Cuéntanse
  bus lines that make the service between the city and suburbs: I
  stop to make mention of this, because it is a advancement
  in a city so far from the European movement.
  

  The hotels are scheduled at large, two good. The three best that
  is within the city are of Pfaroux, the of the four nations, and
  Europe. Outside the city, and the path of Botafogo, two British
  and one French, the Best of all, both in the city, as those of out,
  is the Hôtel des Etrangers in Catette Square.
  

  It's a great house, modern and elegant construction, solid with
  wide and beautiful rooms, a large garden at the foot of sea, wonderful
  views, many amenities. The whole hotel is lighting by gas, have
  bathrooms, pool, and large capacity: in the Hotel for Aliens live
  most of individuals of foreign diplomatic corps.

  
  

  There are other different hotels within the city, shortly certainly
  desirable, but good for the people of the country. There is also
  in Rio de Janeiro two or three cafes where they serve ice cream
  throughout the year, the snow is received from the United States:
  and now talk a little about the elements of the country.
  

  The richness of Brazil are sugar and coffee: the especially coffee
  is the main branch of wealth.
  

  Ships of all countries constantly loaded in their ports
  by this Article: 1855, the province of Rio Janeiro single exported
  ten million pounds of coffee: this cool number of picks with a
  single crop regular province Rio: the ten million pounds of coffee
  imported thirty millions of dollars, for each arroba is sold to
  50 reais.
  

  The main market is Brazil to vent his coffee, is that of the
  United States of America, selling more half of what is collected.

The
  railways are under construction accrue immensely as soon as they
  are completed public wealth Brazil, for then it will be easy and
cheap transportation of coffee from the inland provinces to the ports
of Brazil, transport is now done by horses, with large extravagance
and the jobs needed for a long time, because besides being great distances,
lack of roads.

  
  
  Sugar is another class of wealth, but no big promises future, for
  their condition, much less than that of the island to Cuba and other
parts of America, maintains a state of continuous depreciation.

  
  
  What is and how the wealth of a people, which gives a country's
  future, in addition to the natural elements is their population,
  and this is what I mainly need to rule Don Pedro II.
  
  His vicious laws of colonization, its climate, few attractions
  offered by the European, the lack of guarantees that ensure compliance
with the promises made by their agents to Europeans who want to emigrate,
are causes powerful European retract want to emigrate to Brazil whose
country, with a vast territory, larger than Europe whole day today
has not complete seven million inhabitants, of whom two are blacks.

  
  

  Completed its railroads, and increased its population, Brazil
  have a rich future.

  
  Brazil is in favor of the constitutional party Empire and the Republican
  side.
  
  As a new town, which has just entered public life of
  nations, has a policy that serves sincerity which are carried out
  on representative forms part of his life constitutional only way
  that the Empire exists. The policy that is outside has
  nothing constitutional aims to emulate the so-called free
  government the United States, following in his footsteps,
  made in America South, which the Republic of Washington
  in the North; predominates in neighboring states, influences policy
and tends to the continuous enlargement, although this is must break
laws and attack the independence of peoples.

  
  
  This is the policy of the governments of Brazil and Montevideo, Buenos-Aires
  and Paraguay: awkward sycophants have been led to believe Governments
  of Don Pedro II that Brazil could and should continue the conduct
  of the United States, I had to do in the South as they practice
  in the North, and that being the two peoples stronger of America
nothing more natural than go through the same way.

  
  
  Error! Gross error!

  Anglo-Saxon race that inhabit the North America has no analogy
  or remotely with the indefinable Latin degenerate Portuguese
  living in Brazil.
  
  The two towns are different in everything: energy, origin, in religion,
in laws, customs: the activity North Americans can only be compared
in a big way, with feature of the Brazilian sloth: they differ in
all absolutely everything, even the weather are opposites.

  
  
  Brazil does not widen its borders never, never, if today diplomats
  have been able to exert some influence on Plate republics, only
  the sad Debelo constant state of disturbance of their governments,
anarchy has full reign there today.
Whether woman suffrage and self-support will reverse this process remains to be seen. There
are indications that point that way.

There are many biologists who are at present expressing serious doubt as to the validity of
sexual selection. As in the previous cases of protective coloration, I believe it will be wise
for us to retain, even though with an interrogation point behind it, the idea of sexual selection
until such time as those who object to it have furnished us with another theory which will
more nearly account for the observed facts. While entirely conscious of the possibility that
there is a weak spot in the theory, we will still tentatively hold to sexual selection. The
fact that beauty in women is so intensely attractive to man, and that vigor and manliness in
man are so attractive to women, leads us to infer that among the lower animals, although of
course in a vastly less degree, vigor and beauty are also attractive. The weakest point of
the position lies in the fact that it probably presupposes a higher degree of capacity for
appreciation on the part of lower animals than they possess. Those who deny the truth of the
theory laugh at the idea that a butterfly can see clearly enough and care enough for what it
sees to notice whether its mate has wings of one type or of another. The size, number and position
of the spots on the wings of many butterflies are so nearly constant that they cannot of themselves
have been entirely determined by the choice of the insect. Yet this may not preclude the possibility
of the fact that, while the spots were produced through some other agency, certain types of
them were selected by sexual preference.

If attractive coloration is effective anywhere in the animal world, it will possibly be found
among the insects, but it is especially likely to be found among the birds. Very many field
workers in these groups feel quite sure of the value of attractiveness. When butterflies chase
each other up and down, circling and doubling, following each other for long distances, it
would certainly seem as if they were pleased with each other's appearance. Some naturalists,
especially those who have worked chiefly in the laboratory, insist that it is the odor, not
the color of these insects, which is attractive, and some experiments which have been made
would seem to point in this direction. The works have been done and continue
  making, are prodigious, ranging spent millions of pounds. The two
  colossal towers and soaring, a which is completed, placed as they
  are forming a canvas, which faces to the Abbey, are on their
  own two monuments of art, admirable and beautiful, filled
  with a rich mantle of Gothic ornaments, the more delicate
  work.

  
  This is only the towers, after the building is huge, majestic,
  surprising. To enter it, the first salon in which crosses is the
  same that was tried Charles I °, the same as Long Parliament met,
  the same as Cromwell's vacated as everyone knows.

  
  
  It is a superb living room, covered with art work and a very pretty
  roof. To cross in all its extension is presents a ladder at the
  end of which provides a sitting room circular, to the right, the
House of Lords, to the left of the commons.

  
  
  Both are small, but wonderful: much resemblance to the Catholic church
choir: superb wood, profusion of and gold trim, Saxon-Gothic taste.

  
  
  The interior of the chambers, in the middle of a session, is
  a curious spectacle. Except the speaker, all have their hats on,
  túmbanse on pads, many sleep easily, others talk, the forum intended
  for the public is small, everything is the same in England, however,
  is hardly participation of the people in the sessions of each house:
  in the center of the room on a table, is the crown and
  scepter the Albion, the chancellor, or president, wearing
  a suit ridiculously strange historic covers his head wig white
  that have been adorning the chairs from the Parliament origin.

  
  
  The meeting room of the House of Commons is more than of Lords:
  They are both smartly dressed in gothic ornament chosen.

  Front of Parliament is a famous statue of Canning.
  
  The fashion of the statues has led to the English to end: Wellington,
  that without the timely assistance of the Prussians is defeated
  at Waterloo, Wellington, who returned to London After this battle,
  has fallen asleep to the beat of the cheers you have directed,
  without caring for any of the English army, organization which he
  has neglected disasters East, the Wellington, I say, is in
  London three or four statues, five or six streets in his name, and
many others squares or plazas, where it reads Wellington.

  
  
  All extremes meet: the few in our Spain deny them to the point of
many that deserve them: in England, the lavish to the abuse.

  
  
  The monarchical feeling well, or at least its appearance,
  is written all over in London, apart from infinite domestic
  establishments, which was called real, all the public carriages have
a crown, and written under Queen Victoria.

  
  
  In the walk of Hyde Park, he can not enter more than coach aristocracy
  rental cars, even leading to most virtuous and illustrious man
  of the world, have no entry in the walk ... that the judge who shout
so loud in praise of the nation ....

Among the places worth seeing
London, excel the Trafalgar and Waterloo, both are very great, with
magnificent buildings, and their statues of Nelson and Wellington.

  
  
  La Cité, which alone is a real town, call powerfully the attention
  of the traveler, it contains within it Bag, Bank, Post, San Pablo
and a thousand other line of business establishments, which make your
site the most animated point of the globe without a doubt.

  
  
  At a street out of London Bridge [19], covered eternally
  over carriages and pedestrians below, of vapors. To the left of
  the end of the bridge is the pier iron line in Paris, Southampton
and six other or seven.

  
  
  The heart of the Cité need be to get to understand the possibility
  of a movement so enormous: thousands of carriages cover
  the ground in all directions, it is impossible to cross a across
the street to another, just marching with extraordinary waged a precaution
being struck, not for the clumsy the drivers, which is said to actually
have more skill anywhere, but by the incredible number of cars in
circle and are confused and confusing whirlwind tighten.

  
  
  The lord mayor is the king of the Cité, to enter its Queen site,
  you need the permission of that officer, the Cité cops are
  different from those of London in Live sleeves: Speaking of police,
  remember that only to the Thames in London is a special police
  force.
  

  The buses that circulate throughout the city as the capital
  of England are as a measure: here and there and at times renew
  accurate shots, it only proves distances the colossal London.

What
  England has probably more valuable, is undoubtedly some the famous
  Crystal Palace.

  Neither London nor all provinces of the kingdom, together, have
  more wonderful thing: it is a wonderful monument, is the realization
  of a large bright idea, is a title of glory, is a gold page.
  

  To go to visit the famous temple of industry, trains every ten
  minutes: the journey is done in a room little more hours. The
  pier of the center of a neighborhood, and cars fly over the
  rooftops at the time of output: view of London from the carriages
  in such a time, offers some interesting and new that can not but
call attention.

  
  
  Upon arrival at the palace, travelers are dilated and splendid
  gardens, which are like the carpet that tends to foot of building:
  plenty of ponds and fountains adorn the vegetation canvas offers
  always proud in England.
  

  Closing the box stands the majestic palace, all of glass,
  superb and wonderful. Three large, wide ramps, with bleachers and
  stone and marble statues, give input at the foot of palace. Three
  bodies are colossal front; closed flanks new ones recently raised.

  
  
  The palace has, besides the low, three floors. Abound in profuse
  wealth of splendid rooms, including excel on the patio of the
  lions of the Alhambra, faithfully copied.

  The Egyptian hall, decorated with hieroglyphs and pure Egyptian
  statuary: Asia, with pompous elegance, and other many
  that I do not remember.
  
  Inside the palace, and through the halls, there is what in Paris
  have been copied, abundant and elegant fountains, trees of all climates,
flowers in profusion.

  
  
  The endless columns that hold the palace, all of glass, and seems
supported by the air, are iron, slender, thin and elegant.

  The brilliant clarity of the whole building, such as glass
  are his canvas, the scent of flowers that grow in their classrooms,
  the singing of abundant birds that live there, the rich decoration
  that saw it all, the murmur of the copious spring which rises in
  the middle of rooms, the view of the countryside, that without
  hindrance is offers everywhere around the building, the whole
  all together, it made a pleasing emotion.
  
  At the foot of building a military band performs every Saturday
  selected pieces of music.

  Needless to add that nothing missing, inside the palace is a hotel,
  abundantly stocked with their corresponding English cuisine. 

The
  palaces in London Queen is certainly not worth punishment: they
  are good buildings, very elegant enclosures parks, and ponds with
cattle, such as Whitehall near Abbey, but not monumental.

  The Lords have very good hotels mostly in squares, plazas that
  are fragrant forest of trees and gardens, around London
  found.
  
  Tower of London, famous for the disaster that has been temple,
  only through the prism of historical memories, offers
  interest.

  Located to the left of the bridge London, from which enjoys a magnificent
  panorama, with a city ​​on either side of the river, with steam
  constantly elegant crossing, with plenty of temples and palaces
  to the right and left, with Richmond at the end of one side,
  and the tower London to another.
  
  London is just nice for the English, and Paris is the city of
  all foreigners in the world, the English capital can not liking more
than the sons of the country.

  Society is the most difficult and inaccessible: if a foreigner
  is not introduced a single relationship will not even stay a year,
  but once introduced, the company is nice and easy. The kitchen
  English, not all foreigners love is the only one there, because
  a shortage of hotels and restaurants of Paris, and scarce must undergo.

The
  character of the city is serious and grave, Sundays terribly
  sad, just trade, and nothing but the trade is English life, but
  are theaters entertainment, excluding Sundays, it is useless to
  seek the joy, is not nowhere: it is difficult if not impossible to
eat individual taste: in short, does nothing for London foreigners,
Paris, everything in the French capital is the traveler the realization
of all tastes, how live, in the English capital, it is necessary to
yield to foreign style, to give the familiar and friendly, forget
Paris one if you left your country, in London never ceases to be abroad.

The

  reason is easily explained: there are two diametrically
  opposed people in All: habits, background, character, lifestyle,
  all different, everything else: So much for aliens Overview:
  I know me say that while I traveled and tasted in London capital
  offers few pleasures, but I lived in a good house, and I was constantly
  given away, left his room not with regret, as I happen to leave
  Paris, but no work: happy, yes, very happy, having visited the capital
  curious the English, happy trip it considers necessary for
  who wants to study English society, but without the feeling
  smaller, without any violence.
  
  London, in 1856, has given the world a disgusting spectacle: the life
and property threatened and unsafe, citizens, through the streets,
beaten, theft and insult of day in the middle of the metropolis, the
roads all of the Area covered with beggars of London, dealing in undertake
and abusing helpless women.

  
  
  This is in regard to personal safety, public hygiene has had the
  following enemies: apart from its mist, cold and rains have been
  adulterated in London, according to official data, all food
  items. The same genera have been sold with false weights, so that
  in addition to distorted with Subject to public health all essential
  items need, were sold with false weights and measures ... does not
  need comments, and these facts are official published English
  government, for education of those who ascribe to London
  a thriving civilization, advanced and full of life.

  
  
  With regard to public morals, the courts of London have taken in
  1856 of a vast number of processes reflect a general corruption
  of customs.
  

  Prisons have received a special quota, which number despair, outrageous
  robberies were committed by public employees, as well as ways
  companies agents iron, and the names of Robbson Redpath, and
  others whose acts criminals have so outraged public morals, the
  Paul Dean disaster, Sadler and others, suicide, acts of drunkenness,
  the 36,000 workers who walked the streets of London, hungry,
  miserable, unemployed, of 1.200 million pounds spent on the
  war in East which have greatly increased the public debt, which
  as a marble hangs over England, all these events together form
  a little envy a town called free and civilized.

  
  The divorces, outraging modesty and morality, are arranged
  money, lowering the dignity and mocking to the Women are another
huge box that no people should give consideration to the public.

  
  
  What has saved up to British society today, the timbre high with
  his great feat, is the respect that all English professors at the
  law, and his unalloyed patriotism. No these two conditions,
  especially the first, the revolution had called and impressive
  at the gates of England and whole society had been shaken to its
  foundations.
  
  In 1856, 44.159 children were born in London, and 42.674 girls:
  male killed 28.894 people, 26.892 of women, the total
  number of inhabitants in London had December of that year was 2,616,246,
  a figure crecidísima and the greatest of all European capitals.

  
  
  According to a report published in London in January 1857,
  people who traveled along the Thames in the year of 1856 were in
number four million.

  This crecidísima figure, seem exaggerated has not visited London,
  it is not surprising in any way has been the extraordinary
  number of fumes all day across the Thames, leading usually
  many people fuck each over the bridges.
  
  Marching with great speed, and when passing under bridges the river,
instantly down chimneys without stopping up, they arose immediately
after crossing the arc where they cross.

  
  
  The glance that offers the Thames on a clear day of the month July,
  is magnificent and big, impressive and very wide river, with its
  magnificent bridge, and crossed by innumerable vapors; and fencing
the river on both banks, two large canvases palaces, churches, monuments,
is a remarkable recreational site view of the Thames.

  
  
  The prisons of London, that a few years ago were in a sorry state,
  have recently received major improvements, and its current situation
  is worthy of study by travelers.
  
  Cuéntanse various public libraries in London well organized and served:
history museums natural, sculpture and painting, are worth a visit
with length by the riches they contain: in paintings mighty works
there to admire about the different schools know.

  
  
  Another of the great achievements that made the English people since
  it is governed constitutionally, is the respect that It professes
to individual security.

  
  
  It's great and admirable, and enter it here, I have a real satisfaction,
  and I wish that other governments Imitate Europe at this point
  to England. The same can be said of his wise laws on press, high
  institution, August and civilization, to which people should be as
good possess public gallery of the society, advocate oppressed, yes,
England has understood better than anyone great power of the press,
so we abide by and respect him for that the English press is free.

  Hopefully it will soon be all Europe presses!
  
  Manchester, Liverpool and Southampton, are the cities I know in England
  apart from London.

  
  
  Once you've written everything from the capital England has caught
  our attention, we shall point out some news briefs on the top
  industrial cities mentioned.
  

  Liverpool, which in a few years has increased its population
  of a so great, and in the way of manufacturing advances resolved
  to step up and steady progress, has today a population of 250.000
inhabitants.

  
  
  Its rail lines, who put it in rapid communication with London, Manchester,
  and many other points, increase their importance. The city
  is big and beautiful, it belongs to the county Lancaster, its favorable
  situation, as an intermediate point between Ireland and
  England, the advantages provided commercial.
  
  Mersey river bathes its surroundings, and the vast manufacturing
  occupies the city's industrial activity, enhances all days of its
importance and significance.

  
  

  There are excellent hotels, many buildings of consideration
  and some very good roads.
  
  What the traveler should visit in Liverpool, as in all Albion industrial
populations are establishments manufacturing, real English power centers,
theaters of greatness, monuments of their civilization.

  
  
  Mechanics with all its prodigious advances, industry with his progress,
  the admirable order which reigns, products they offer, everything
is worth seeing, all be explored.

  
  
  The environs of Liverpool are also delicious, and Tours There is
  a lot easier, are worth being seen.
  
  From Liverpool to Manchester were addressed to me, belonging as Liverpool
to Lancaster County, and the center of the industry, has a population
of 200,000 souls, when a century ago was a small and insignificant
town fourth order.

  
  
  The industry, flourishing and powerful as in Liverpool, is that has
been so rapid flight to the city.

  It is located on River Irwell, and has over three hundred steam
  engines crecidísimo whose number seems incredible, operating in Manchester
over 30,000 looms, and life and movement to provide prodigious activity.

  Its rail lines to Liverpool, London and other everyday items increases
  their wealth.
  
  In this city, I will say the same thing in Liverpool, which is necessary
visit the manufacturing facilities in preference to all; England are
major national, monuments.

  
  
  Manchester has stately buildings, hotels, tours, beautiful streets
and a thriving industrial animation.

  They are also worth visiting, as in Liverpool, delicious around
  the city.

  
  If the foreigner is intending to stay long enough in Manchester
  or any other city in England, you need absolutely, if you do
  not want to be bored, be present to some club, the only
  way to know the society and distracted in somehow.

  Once submitted it will go well.
  
  As Manchester is visited by many foreigners, and as its manufacturing
  and trade pay much importance, there quite animation in
  the streets and promenades, hotels are regular; cuéntanse few notable
  buildings as art.
  

  And here ends our notes on lightweight Manchester Liverpool. Southampton
  will talk later, now we move to Italy.
  

  # Italy #.
  
  The trip to Italy I made from Switzerland. I left the capital
  Federal diligence Lucerne, short and delightful journey which takes
place in eleven hours.

  I moved to come to Lucerne Fluelen on Lake Lucerne.
  
  Nothing is more poetic, nothing more pleasant than the distance across
  halfway between Lucerne and Fluelen: the time spent is the
  two hours.

  
  Small steamers plying from one point to another, offering
  comfort and cleanliness.
  

  As we begin the journey, visitors admiring the Riggi towering
  mountains and Pilate, crowned with snow, hide your head in the clouds.
  As the vapor moves, riding the blue waves of the lake, surrounding
mountains Cortes and capricious profiles, historical memories William
Tell are appearing at the hearing, the interest grows and dispierta
is, the journey is short and pleasant.

  

  
  I remember with pleasure that in the same lake was fought illustrious
  Tell the thugs Gesler that led him to prison Lucerne after the
  tremendous punishment to which he condemned the tyrant forced him
to pull over the head of his son.

  
  
  Sites Tell everyone that walked meantime remained hidden; the chapel
where the founders of the Swiss rallied, all those fond memories are
reborn in the spirit of the traveler with all the strength and truth
of an event on Thursday.

  
  

  The mountain ranges that funny shaped amphitheaters around
  the lake, the sky is reflected in the waves the harmony of all
  speak to the soul.
  
  After two hours we were in Fluelen [20].
  
  At this last point, I ticket to Milan, and as Fluelen is on the same
foot of the Alps, on the side Gotthard, whose career was that I continued,
we started from the time to rise.

  
  
  The coach took us through a wonderful and superb road until
  a league Gotthard, convent, as San Bernardo, is located at the top
of the Alps.

  
  
  Just seeing it, can form a correct idea of ​​what I have to refer:
  that has not made that way certainly.

  
  From Fluelen to the Hospital, we had to site care leave, to go the
  way later say, constantly climbed the endless slopes of these Hundreds
of mountains that put one above the other form what we call Alps.

  

  
  Thundering waterfalls and magnificent super descending rushing
  to the top of the Alps stormy rivers that run shouting among rocks,
  dotted with foam-white as silver; cliffs greater extent than can
be measured the human eye as the Devil's bridge, perfectly designated
by that name, below which the roaring powerful voice of his anger
the impetuosísimo Reuss, which breaks stones, with a roar, deep chasms
frightful mountains of snow thickness of twenty-three yards that threatens
collapse: this, together, shape the way from Fluelen to the Hospital.

  
  
  At this point we had to leave the coach, because snow, not limited
as before to cover the costs, filled the road.

  
  

  Six small wooden boxes, called sleds without wheels without
  cover, half a yard high, and the same widths, were responsible
  for receiving all who were coming in diligence. In each drawer
  we placed two passengers, other our luggage, and every drawer,
  pulled by a horse began to slip with that job cart swollen with snow.

  
  
  A right and left huge canvases of snow depth threatened frozen cover
  us at any moment: four men with axes lying along the way, were
  threading our way.
  
  Before I forget, I am going to record the effect of that vast
  whiteness dazzles, and can not stand: all men who work there
  are green glasses: we precision we always look to a fixed point,
  to clothes our black coats.
  

  Rolling with difficulty, with frightful precipices on the sides,
  uncomfortable in narrow crates, we reached the top of the
  Alps at an altitude of just seeing it is thought possible reach,
both had gone up.

  
  
  There on the top, stands the St. Gotthard, many times already covered
  by snow, and returned to rebuild, there are only two Monks: the
  house was almost completely covered with snow, was in June ....

In
  December one goes, even the birds. No voices enthusiastic
  enough to trumpet the greatness of Alps: the ocean as the Alps are
the idea of ​​infinity, translate God, inspire recojimiento.

  Well there is my trip to Italy, which gave me so great emotion
  in the presence of their Alps!
  
  Once there was a need to lower course in the same vehicles, rolling
slowly and with great care, we down a narrow path above the road,
but with a background of thirty yards of snow.

  
It is often a matter of surprise to many people that a bird should contrive to build a nest
so exquisitely circular. The trick, after all, is not quite so difficult as it looks. The robin
gathers up a few sticks and places them as the beginning of the platform. More and more are
brought and woven into each other, making a framework altogether too big for the nest. Then
mud is brought and plastered inside of this. With the plastering of this mud the careful circularity
of the work begins. Every time a little material has been added the robin sits down in the
nest and revolves her body, in this way shaping the interior much as the potter shapes a pot.
In the case of the artisan, it is the pot that revolves. In the case of the robin, the bird
itself revolves. The effect is the same in both cases--a circular vessel is produced. A little
lining added to the interior of the nest softens it for the reception of the eggs. In this
exquisite home the robin lays her eggs, and sits upon them until they are developed enough
to hatch, and then feeds the young until they are old enough to feed themselves.

Far more remarkable than any of the devices thus far described are the wonderful developments
which have come in the class of animals known as the mammals. Here the most wonderful protection
is made for the care and feeding of the young. But this is to be the subject of a separate chapter.

As long as we thought of each sort of animal as being a separate species shaped in the beginning
by the hands of the Creator, each of these devices seemed to us a new manifestation of the
Divine Providence, whose fertile planning had conceived so many methods of providing for his
children. Unconsciously we thought of God acting as man acted. Each animal seemed a purely
separate invention purposely designed for an especial place. Now we understand the plan in
creation better, and see that each animal has come from another not quite like itself, some
distance back, and this from still another. Our admiration for these devices as they arise
through evolution is no less, but takes on another form.

CHAPTER VI

LIFE IN THE PAST

Anyone who earnestly studies plants and animals as they exist in the world to-day cannot help
wondering how the earth began and where it got its life. This is the true end and aim of geological
study. The history of man seems to run back into a far distant and gloomy past. Except for
the poetical account in Genesis and the traditions of various peoples throughout the world,
real history fades away into an earlier time of which there are no written records. When the
delvers in the Mesopotamian plain talk to us of kingdoms running back through seven or eight
or nine thousand years, we seem to be getting back to the beginnings of things. But seven or
eight or nine thousand years are as nothing in comparison with the age of the earth, which
runs back into a past so limitless that no man can safely assign any set figure to it. In a
recent paper, Dr. Walcott, of the Smithsonian Institution, says that the antiquity of the earth
must be measured not in millions, for they are too short, nor hundreds of millions, for this
carries us too far, but must surely be measured in tens of millions of years.

When we attempt to study the past we find its various epochs unequally clear to us. In human
history only quite modern times are absolutely clear. The history of the Middle Ages is distinct
enough for us to build for ourselves a picture of the time with reasonable hope of gaining
a correct view of the state of affairs. Back of this comes the long stretch of the Dark Ages,
in which here and there we have bright spots, but it will perhaps long be impossible to portray
clearly the life of the people. Getting back to the Romans, things once more become reasonably
plain, as is true also in the case of Greek history. Back of this stretches the Egyptian with
fair precision, and, older than it, the Babylonian and Chaldean. But these past three have
not left nearly so definite an account for us as did the later civilizations of Greece and Rome.

When we try to go back of these we must change our method of study entirely. Writing is absent,
and all we know of earlier men must be inferred from a few pictures that were daubed on the
rocks or carved in ivory or bone, from tools made of stone or bone, from a few metal or stone
ornaments, or from the bones of the men themselves. Even so, the history fades out without
telling us its own beginnings. It is quite as impossible for history to write its origins as
it is for man, from his own knowledge, to describe his birth.

What is true of the human story is quite as true of that of the earth. Recent steps are very
plain. We may read them with considerable confidence. As we go deeper into the rocks and find
older fossils, the evidence becomes less certain. The animals differed enough from those of
to-day for us to be less sure what they were like. As we keep on moving backward through time,
and downward through the rocks, we find, after a while, strata in which there are evidences
of life that existed long ago, but in which these traces are so altered that it is impossible
to tell what sort of living things existed; we learn only that they were alive. Going back
still further, these fade out. There is no knowing when the earth began; there is no knowing
when life began upon the earth. It is not meant that men have not wondered, even reckoned carefully,
as to how long ago each of these events occurred. Many speculations have proved entirely useless,
a few remain as yet neither confirmed nor disproved, and of such we shall speak.

For the last hundred years the theory of the earth's origin suggested by the Marquis Pierre
Simon De La Place, of France, near the end of the eighteenth century, has held almost undisputed
sway among men who were willing to consider the question as open to human solution. This theory
is known as La Place's Nebular Hypothesis. When men began to study the heavenly bodies with
the newly invented telescope, new ideas naturally sprang up. Among the objects which the glass
disclosed were the nebulæ, which are great clouds of fire mist, glowing masses of gas. They
are scarcely visible to the naked eye, but are among the most interesting objects in the heavens
when seen through a telescope. The other suggestive heavenly body was our sister planet, Saturn.
Besides having a full complement of moons, Saturn has around it, as distant as we would expect
moons to be, three great rings. These look very much as if one's hat, with an enormously wide
brim, should have the connection between the rim and the hat broken out completely, but the
rim should still float around the hat without touching it and should steadily revolve as it
stood there. The rings of Saturn are not solid like the suggested hat rim. They are evidently
made up of a great number of very small particles, each moving around the center of Saturn.
But the great cloud of them is spread out flat. At the distance which Saturn is from the earth
they look as if they made a solid sheet. Furthermore, they do not form, as it were, one continuous
hat rim, but it is as if the rim were broken into three circular sections, each bigger than
the one inside it and separated from the next by an area nearly as wide as the ring itself.

With such material in the heavens to guide him, La Place suggested that the sun had once been
an enormous fire mist scattered over an area billions of miles in diameter. This gaseous material,
by the attraction of its particles for each other, began to condense and contract. When the
plug is pulled from a washbasin the particles of water, in moving toward the center, in order
to get out of the basin, invariably set up a rotary motion. As the particles of this diffused
nebula began to gather together they, too, gave to the mass a rotary movement. This grew more
and more rapid, with greater contraction, until the particles on the outer edge of the rotating
mass had just so much speed that the least bit more would make them tend to fly off as mud
would fly from a revolving wheel. When this point was reached there was a balance of forces
which made the outermost portion remain as a ring while the rest contracted away from it, leaving
it behind.

It was La Place's idea that this process had repeated itself, and ring after ring had been
left behind. Finally the sun condensed and grew into a ball, occupying the center of the system.
At varying distances from it were to be found either rings or planets which had been formed
out of such rings. For La Place suggested that in a ring like this the material could not be
quite evenly distributed. While every particle in the ring kept revolving around the sun, those
in front of the densest part were slowly held back by the attraction of the thicker portion,
while those behind it in rotation had their speed hastened until finally all the material in
the ring had collected at one spot and a new planet was born. La Place believed that these
planets formed their moons in exactly the same way, and that Saturn was simply a planet not
all of whose moons had yet been formed. He believed that this happy accident served to tell
us how the universe had been created.

Of course, so detailed a theory concerning anything of which we know so little has always had
much ridicule thrown upon it, and yet no truly competing theory has been proposed until very
recent times.

Within a few years a Planetesimal Theory has been announced, and is gaining considerable prominence,
although it is too early yet to say whether it will supersede La Place's idea. In this theory,
also, the suggestion comes from the heavenly bodies. With the increasing study of the nebulæ,
many forms of these interesting bodies have been discovered. A very common type consists of
a great coherent central mass, with two or more arms extending from opposite sides in the form
of a spiral. This is as if gaseous revolving nebulæ had come into comparatively close proximity
to a passing body. The visitor, by its attraction, drew from the nebula a wisp of gas. The
revolving motion of the nebula gave to the attracted arm the spiral form.

These twisted arms are not equally dense throughout, but have thickened knots here and there
in their course. The Planetesimal Theory suggests that these thickened knots are embryo planets
and the central portion of the nebulæ an embryo sun. After all the material in such a body
has condensed either around the knots or about the central mass a new solar system will be
complete. As before stated, neither of these theories can be said to be demonstrated. Each
of them has points in its favor and each has its difficulties. It is pleasant to know what
men have clearly thought concerning such questions, but for a man not a trained geologist neither
will carry much conviction. He will still rest with his own early conclusion that whichever
shall prove to be true, for him his old formula is still valid, "in the beginning God made
the heavens and the earth." He will no longer think of God as having shaped the balls with
his own hand and thrown them into space; he will no longer dream that it all occurred within
a week not more than six thousand years ago; but still to him will come the reverent conviction
that, whatever the plan by which it was accomplished, it was still God's plan and God carried
it out.

Now that we have tried to stretch our imagination back to the origin of our globe, the question
not unnaturally comes to our mind, how long ago did all this happen? Is there any possible
means of telling when the history of the earth began? Since money is the object of worship, French
  society, and especially Paris, is prey profit, gain easy,
  immediate, whether or not moral.

  
  The source of wealth is work: out of it is searched Paris and
  acquired with the Auxiliary to offer, now the Prostitution
  now vice. Men, women, are inattentive in a confused maelstrom
  in search of money, and a vertigo pushes them a thirst consumes hydropic
gold.

  
  
  So are many other peoples of Europe, next to a Stormy dislocations
  which must necessarily bring agio of the bags. The feudalism of
  money now weighs about people, more terrible even than the Middle
  Ages, the oppressed in the name of certain principles, even ridiculous,
  had something noble and great in the way, that of our days is
  miserable and awkward, no slogan or shield more than money it
  is their religion, politics, morals, its coat of arms,
  everything: money, and nothing but money. Oppress him companies
  are imposing the law to governments, make it impossible liberty:
  a dozen Jewish bankers lend money to all Christian governments
  of Europe, giving the law to all bags, enhance and stimulate
  the ambition of money to any price purchased. The Gold Rush
  silt up the sources of public morality, and enslave the peoples
  because a corrupt people can not get to be free: replaced
  God with money given to public worship everywhere and particularly
  in their temples-bags.

  
  The revolution, the day on which to account, to demolish their
  foundation stock, and make impossible the reign of gold, most miserable
of all.

  
  
  Returning to Paris, from which an almost involuntary digression
  me separately in the capital of France, where it receives more worship
  than anywhere else in the world money, there are sanctimonious
  all means to acquire it, that burning desire to live there hearts,
  there is absolutely necessary to purchase money and that not enough
is considered a man without talent Is horrible!

  
  
  The French company running hastily to an abyss. A government
  to fertilize the sources of public morality with good laws
  and examples, to kill the agio, which ennobled the work, to preach
  the sanctity of the modest August fortunes of the people, nobly acquired
by the sweat of front may stop the catastrophe that threatens us.

  
  
  A free government knows, involved, examine everything, there is
  transparency to all acts, the discussion and publicity
  absolutely free kill those secret miseries that make life speculators,
  with a free government, are touting and demonize all concussions,
  freedom occupies the minds in higher things, to make citizens live
in an area of noble aspirations, sentiments large.

  
  
  By studying the statistics is that corruption spreads Paris quickly,
  and the manner of a foul leprosy, threatens to consume the body
  social. In Paris there is scarcely family, and without
  this society is not possible: the hotels and restaurants are those
  that meet the most part to the inhabitants of the capital at
  the lunch: a large part of the population of Paris throughout
  the year come out of his house, and homeless, sanctuary of the conditions,
dissolved on the street.

  
  

  You can ensure that almost half the population of Paris eats outside
  your home all year.
  
  How are bonds of love saints must unite individuals of the
  same family, the classes of the same tree? Impossible, impossible
  to education of children, which perfect at home, hearth and home;
  impossible the conditions that are born, grow, develop and live
  within home, and only there, impossible to family, who live dispersed
  on the street, and the family is impossible, impossible is also
  society, and this is what happens in Paris, this is
  what I I've seen, these are the social mores of the capital France,
which many witness without stopping to deduct consequences, that is
what they see all foreigners.

  
  

  Meditate well on its significance, that is important, I infer
  that and pointed.
  
  In Paris are easily bought and sold conditions are traffics in
  everything, and the one universal religion is that devoted to money.
  Recorded daily processes scandalous disconsolate philosopher able
  to create less in the perfectibility of the human race,
  to succeed each other bankruptcies that lay in desolation and
  frighten families the observer, the suicides are repeated with
  a tremendous often puts scare in the soul: the courts deal almost
  without respite in knowing that condemns any defamatory
  matters moral, it is unsound, and all these acts just enunciate
  pass into the light of day and recorded in statistics: who
  will be able to deal with actions that not judged in secret scenes
that rend the soul every day within families?

  
  
  If we study the statistics of the moral life of Paris is the dismal
  and terrible figures are increased each year: the broken marriages,
  suicides, new homes game, the great fortunes plummet, the terrifying
  miseries that appear, the court processes that twice, homes of correction
  that are filled, in a word data are published every year concerning
  the moral status Paris society, are enough to discourage the spirit
  and almost prostrate faith in progress.

  
  
  This is the moral Paris we have seen, and moving away of such
  a sad picture, we shall continue our tour through its attractions
and its material appearance, lively and brilliant in the extreme.

  
  
  The most notable churches I've visited in Paris, are the Cathedral,
  St. Sulpice, Mary Magdalene, St. Germain l'Auxerrois the Holy Chapel,
St. Vincent de Paul, San Esteban del Monte, and Santa Clotilde.

  
  
  La Magdalena, which I deal elsewhere slightly, is a very pretty art
  building, which has four elegant facades, with their respective
  order of columns each Corinthian, is a slender, graceful monument,
  which resembles a Greek temple, a lyceum, a gymnasium. The
  interior corresponds to announcing his gallant bearing out, and
  participates Christian also taste some of its facade. In the
  table altar appears Napoleon, whom we had no news that had been
  canonized, it is also true that we have seen in Milan, capping
  one of the elegant needle its magnificent cathedral.

  
  
  Notre-Dame, which also speak in another place, is a imposing
  and majestic temple, where they currently barbarian repairs unsightly
venerable appearance.

  Also the church of Saint Sulpice is worth seeing.
  
  The church of San Esteban del Monte, whose magnificent interior surprises
  with its architectural elegance and taste and severe style, has
  lately been the scene of a great crime that ended in sent a
  shockwave through Paris.

  Inside the church is the murderer Verge buried a knife in the heart
  of the venerable Archbishop of Paris Archbishop Sibour.
  
  Saint Germain l'Auxerrois deserve the traveler's check, his
  elegant construction, but somewhat flattened shape, its different
styles forming a bizarre, its inner beauty are regarded as one very
good and make San Germain one of the most beautiful churches in Paris.

  
  
  San Vicente de Paul, with its elegant and airy porch columns,
  its two towers and the main body so handsome, also called the attention
of looking for art and taste monumental: the interior is severe and
religious.

  
  
  La Sainte Chapelle, playing with the Palace of Justice, is a prodigy
  of art: graceful shapes and eastern purity lines, architectural
  severity. The slight and graceful tower that rises like
  a crown, would be doubly beautiful if modern, which aim to decorate
  everything, they had not disfigured by making it a subject
  of hardware, many are those that have gilded dress. However, the
  traveler can not be dispensed to visit the temple is magnificent
  and venerable.

  I waive its history here because that is not my object in this place.

Santa
  Clotilde, located across the Seine, is a true Jewel: observing
  his youth, written in its construction, the feel a sense of
  wonder. In our century up so fast, and this time when construction
  to be good must require little time, has risen in Santa Clotilde
  a Gothic church pure, without mixture of tastes and styles. It
  is a beautiful church worthy of being seen: recently be completed
  and submitted for public worship. Before his elegant facade
  lies a spacious plaza planted gardens, which embellish the
  picture.

  
  The real Paris monument which today is the Louvre, joined as is
  already the Tuileries. It seems incredible that in this century
  how quickly light up without ever stopping in works long term,
  have been verified in such a short period colossal works of the Louvre.

And

  has joined with the Tuileries, and form a whole without rival, Place
  du Carrousel great, wonderfully admirable, is perhaps the most impressive
  in Europe: the art, which dispenses with on frequency in modern
  buildings, bright incredible majestic works of the Louvre:
  Good Italian and French architects who have directed the
  work, have built a glorious temple for art forms, architectural
  taste, good traditions preserved, the severity of styles, luxurious
  construction, air imposing breathing, the whole and details
  surprise and admiration. Worthy of praise is the consistency
  with which the present chief magistrate of France has taken and
  ended so gigantic works.
  
  To advise visitors to Paris to stop frequently front of the Louvre,
there is much to consider, there is much to admire.

  
  
  Also worth a special visit and stopped the rich museums that adorn
the interior, including painting and sculpture.

  The latter, well ordered and quite rich, containing among other
  marvels of Greek statues of the Gladiator and Venus, which
  will astound the mind and make Greece artistic apologia: impossible
  thing more admirable, are models are timeless works are marvels
  of art.
  
  The museum of paintings, where the different schools shine know, claims
many visits of anyone who loves the noble art of Raphael and Murillo.

  Richest school that holds in the galleries of the Louvre is the
  Flemish, with Pleiades inspired brilliant artists, with animated
  paintings.
  
  The Italian school, powerfully splendid, also looks at the Louvre
with all its pomp in the square room, the richest of all, read at
the foot of canvas without rival, the illustrious headings of Raphael,
Titian, Rubens, Paul Veronese, Tintoretto, Leonardo de Vinci, Murillo,
in the midst of those children of genius, two immortal Virgin proclaims
the strength of Spanish school, which also shines with all its brave
splendor in the halls of the Louvre.

  
  
  The French school, richer there than in any other museum It
  also has the major works of his inspired teachers: in short, those
  who visit Paris, you can not dispense in any way to see the Louvre.

The
  theaters of Paris, studied with detention, grieve deeply the
  mind: public morality ever goes wrong stop: it is extremely
  difficult to attend to the representation of a comedy in which there
is a woman who deceives her husband is a detail almost indispensable.

  
  
  True, the playwright who lives in Paris, which studies of society
  and translates it into the scene, is not to all times to portray
noble types ... but anyway forms of dialogue, the Spanish public,
the English public, not acceptable ever.

  
  
  In Spain, otherwise understand the theater, will certainly because
  our family is different. This therefore makes the theater moral
  question: if we speak of the halls and orchestras nothing good can
point, absolutely nothing around Paris there is a great theater, not
one, orchestras can be heard only the Opera, which is great, and the
Italians and Opera-Comique, the rest are provincial orchestras.

  
  
  Forms of dialogue, a little casual and free also contribute to
  the impression of disgust that produce cited in the mind of comedy
  you're used to a dramatic literature and moral dignity, without being
fanatical or superstitious, always respects the moral maxims taught
comforting, offers noble types, and does not offend the modesty never
mothers or daughters.

  
  
  The study more comforting than I have done in Paris has been
  the daily reading of the section containing losses newspapers.
  The soul rests and rejoices as I read read ads daily that poor
  people do to have found gold bracelets, bank notes, precious
  jewels, and what is more even, purses and wallets with respectable
amounts in cash: they publish to becomes aware of their own and pass
to pick them up.

  It admirable, is magnificent, it is comforting! Examples
  such as those I quote you see all day, and they give are generally
  people without any recourse, working poor unfortunate. Magnificent!
  I collect this data with great pleasure in my book! Data is
  a dildo!
  
  The Paris public lighting leaves much to be desired and is very far
from corresponding to the greatness of the capital.

  The choice persuaded of the truth of this assertion, which is passed
  a Paris Sunday after one night, or any other day of the week.
  There are more lanterns in the shops in Street: this happens
  on the same boulevard, as soon as closed shops and hotels that
  have lighting, street Paris offered a bit dark because of
  bluff to bluff there a great distance, and the light comes with
  great difficulty. The Richelieu Street, Vivienne, Montmartre
  and a hundred, have, after twelve o'clock at night, a questionable
  light and opaque; this is the truth.
  
  Let's continue our tour of the city.
  
  The face of Paris change every day, beautiful; the six years ago visited
the monuments and streets, is Today many reforms and innovations,
which can scarcely recognize.

  Apart from the colossal works of the Louvre, the imagination can
  not understand have been executed in such a short term, the Rue
  de Rivoli, majestic and proud, is to increase the admiration
  of the traveler. In all areas of the big business, have been
  demolished hundreds of houses miserable rise on the ruins of palaces
  and elegant today buildings.
  
  Work on the grains market in front of the church St. Eustache, Paris
  disfigured site that has been made shortly term, and today there
  are great markets. The Boulevard Sebastopol, work in any
  other country that had lasted eight or ten years, is nearing completion
  at all, beautifying more and more Paris.

  The Bois de Boulogne, Champs Elysees, all neighborhoods have changed
in appearance: the Paris of the year 40 completely disappears to give
place to a new city.

  
  
  The proposed study in Paris has more resources than anywhere in
  the world, and helpful observation theaters and useful, has, in
  addition to their libraries, newspapers, theaters and academies,
  have, say, the boulevard, a thousand book chapters of deep
  learning, is the quarters of the workers, of the aristocracy,
  the trade, the unfortunate, the curious rag-picker, statistics,
  high and low the stock market, fluctuations in European
  politics, the flight newspapers, the tumultuous roar of their orchestras
and ebullient delights: the terrible loneliness of misfortune and
misery, the great fortunes from the side of the heroic and misfortunes
suffered the scorching volcanic rages pleasure hectic everywhere and
screaming without respite to not out of tune you hear the voice of
the disaffected: contrasts tremendous, the ruins and misery, glory
and money: the most perfect quiet, always ready to become angry storm,
the dark uncertain future and present: belief and faith to the side
of skepticism and ridicule: how big mixed with the small, all contrasts,
enfin, everyone.

  No study more profitable, none more useful than teaching that
  is acquired by studying the city monster called Paris.
  
  Among the delightful walks in Paris, stands out in the first complete
  the Bois de Boulogne, the most remarkable recreational site any
  capital that Europe can offer.
  
  Its leafy streets of felled trees with more art finish, lakes and
waterfalls, meadows delicious, their artistic gardens and woodlands
make up a set so happy and smiling, so beautiful and elegant than
any painter less sensitive may not absorbed and delighted to behold,
its proportions, his paintings, lights and shadows, its poetry, enfin.

  
  
  Within flaunts his prodigious extension with the luxury of a spring
  inside, the superb Pré Catelan, deliciosísimo recreational site
  that brings together the richest and most varied collection of
  flowers in Europe. The night parties there are in the middle the
  burning of lights that shine, look like a fairy tale: their orchestras
  and theaters, among which is the first place the call of the flowers,
  for being so in reality its canals and bridges, the hillocks
  and waterfalls, make it a lovely garden. At the Bois de Boulogne
  come in numbers fabulous most elegant carriages of Paris, and the
  crowd pleased walks and spreads among his greatness.
  
  In the Bois de Boulogne are also several other gardens, there
  restaurants, Swiss houses, cafes, etc., etc. Beside the great cascade
  extends the plain of Longchamps, where they horse racing site.

The
  bus lines that run through Paris in all directions spend
  thirty, all have a great number of carriages and a great service
  to the public in addition to encourage capital with their movement
  and life. The rate of prices is the most comfortable imaginable,
  for three salaries in the imperial and six in bus, it
  runs along a line, usually consists of a large distance across Paris
from one end to another.

  
  
  Square cars, ruled since last August by a new fee, also offer service
on its well understood few amenities may like: their number is large,
its stations located throughout the capital, so the traveler finds
as soon as a coach want his service.

  Among privately owned cars, the lines bus, car companies
  plaza, cars & vehicles of all species, the number of carriages
  that circulates through the Paris inside the fabulous amounts
  of one hundred seventy thousand. According to the new rate can
  now be a carriage minutes, having no obligation to pay as before
  one hour but the time spent, each carriage has a fixed
  clock indicate when it is taken.

  
  
  Around the huge metropolis are also worthy of be visited by more
  than one concept. Apart from the care and taste that is cultivated
  countryside, brighten and beautify their terms the many happy
  people displayed by all parties. Because communications are so
  easy, thanks to the railroads, a foreigner who wishes to study
  and learn around Paris can get your order in a few days. In the
  dock of the San Lazaro Street to find quarter of an hour train
  that will lead to Asnieres Ville d'Avray, Sevres, Versailles, St.
  Cloud, St. Germain, for very comfortable price.

  In the same street station San Lazaro is a railway line to visit
  Passy Auteuil, to Batignolles, Courcelles, Porte Maillot Bois de
  Boulogne. Heading abroad to road North iron, you can also
  see in half an hour three delightful towns, among which stands out
for its beauty Enghien, with its tranquil lake, which surround all
handsome houses field.

  At any point that the traveler is directed, and any that is the
  direction of their trips, is assured find cafes, hotels and restaurants
  in abundance. Since both has been promoted in recent years the
  work of the railways of France, Paris is in communication instant
  with all the capitals of Europe, so arrive in large numbers daily
  travelers of all around the world come to visit. The number
  of foreigners pouring in from all parts of the land rises
  to a figure truly amazing, and in Paris, modern Babylon, Oyens speak
all languages ​​and are all the costumes.

  
  
  The prisons of Paris a few years ago left much to be want, have
  greatly improved their system and organization, and today,
  although they can serve as models, certainly worth a visit
  arrested when trying to learn compared.
  
  The stations of the railway lines, buildings have to me more
  important than any other public facilities, for its high significance
  in the holy crusade of the ideas that transmit them to the towns,
  making them know each other, are veritable palaces in Paris.
   The ancestors of these king crabs were the finest and best developed animals
in this early Palæozoic time. These creatures had bodies jointed like the tail of a lobster.
They were wide and flat, instead of narrow and rounded like a lobster, and each joint of the
body was highest in the middle and distinctly lower at the two sides, thus forming three regions
along their backs. This structure gives to these creatures the name of trilobites. These animals
were the kings of the early ocean. They had an interesting habit of curling up nose to tail
before they died, and, as a result, a large proportion of all the trilobite fossils we find
are curled in this peculiar manner.

After these forms the most abundant fossils we find in Silurian times were creatures that at
first sight looked as if they might be related to the clams. These are known as lampshells,
because one shell projects beyond the other and curls up at the tip so as to resemble the clay
lamps which are dug out of old Roman towns. The lampshells also have nearly disappeared in
modern times. Simple creatures belonging with our present crab and snail had begun to make
their appearance, but they were not as abundant as we find them later on.

The third group of the mollusks to which the nautilus and squid of to-day belong is very abundantly
represented in the Silurian by fossils with coiled-up shells. As for the plant life of the
time, it is exceedingly difficult to say much about it. There must have been nothing but marine
plants, and these must have been on the general line of the seaweeds. Little can be definitely
said concerning them.

The next period of the Palæozoic is known as the Devonian age, or the age of fishes. Now the
backboned animals first make their clear and unmistakable appearance. There are remains in
the Silurian which show that there must have been a few fishes at that time. The Devonian is
so full of them and they are so well developed and so diversified that this period is definitely
known as the "age of fishes." They do not closely resemble the fishes of to-day, but anyone
would recognize most of them for what they are. Their bodies were covered, not so much with
scales as with heavy plates, often arranged like tiles, those on the forward half of the animal
being often larger than those surrounding the rest of the body. The creature was encased, as
it were, in armor. These were the rulers of the Devonian seas. The land, as yet, was probably
nearly without animal life, the creatures thus far being almost confined to the water. A few
insects make their appearance and a few thousand-leggers are running around among the lowly
plants; a few spider-like animals have arisen; there are a few snails that have left the water
and taken to the land. Altogether only the dawn of a land fauna is to be noticed. In the Devonian
the plants are creeping up upon the ground. Ferns are growing about everywhere, though they
are not exactly our ferns, but are rather a sort of intermediate form between these and the
present seed plants.

Now comes an entire change in the history of the world. By some means a rise in the bottom
seems to have cut off a great part of the internal sea from the outer ocean and to have converted
it into a widespread shallow bay, much like the sounds which lie back of the islands that line
the Atlantic Coast from New Jersey to Florida. Just as this coastal region to-day is covered
with salt marshes, so the whole internal sea of the Carboniferous period was converted into
a great swamp. Sometimes an oscillation of the crust of the earth brought this marsh above
the surface of the sea and a luxuriant growth of plants spread over it. Then a sinking of the
bottom allowed the mud and sand to wash down the shores, and spread out over the marsh, and
enclose the muck of the marsh under a layer of sand or clay. Another lift of the bottom would
start the swamp growing once more, and a series of alternations between marsh land and sound
seems to have followed. The plants of this period are not the plants of to-day, though we still
have some very degenerate representatives of them. The common horse-tail, with its angular,
slender, leaflike branches and its club-shaped spore-bearing body, is a modern degenerate descendant
of the treelike calamites of the Carboniferous forest. A creeping evergreen, known by the name
of clubmoss, is in like manner the modern degenerate remnant of the scalestem and sealstem,
which were the great trees of the forests of the coal period.

All over the surface of the marsh, between these big trees, grew the ferns. While the coal
itself was formed generally from the scalestems and sealstems, the most common fossils found
in the shales that lie upon the coal beds are the ferns which covered the surface of the marsh.

It is believed by many geologists that this great luxuriant forest points to a time when the
climate was far warmer than it is to-day, when the air was moist and heavily laden with carbon
dioxide, and when a great mass of clouds practically enveloped the earth. In this way only
do most geologists account for the enormous wealth of vegetation in the Carboniferous period
and for the abundance of plants up to the Arctic Ocean, of the kinds that now grow chiefly
in the tropics. But of recent years a few geologists point to the fact that the peat bogs of
to-day, which seem to be the beginnings of future coal deposits, are found almost entirely
in cold countries. Hence it is a serious matter to attempt to describe the climate of any part
of the Palæozoic era. Certainly of the climate earlier than the Carboniferous it is very risky
to say anything definite.

The forests of the coal period seem actually to have cleared the air; at least now we begin
to find creatures related to our salamanders and frogs moving about among the stumps of the
marshes. These amphibians are evidently the descendants of some of the fishes of the Devonian
times. Among these fishes were some which bear a great resemblance to a few found in South
America, in Africa and Australia to-day, and which we know as lungfish. Anyone who has cleaned
our fresh water fishes in preparation for the table will remember that inside of them there
is a long slender bladder filled with air. This bladder assists in making the fish light, hence
making it easier for it to support itself in the water. On the other hand, no doubt should
always be superfluous for the necessary, and win, therefore, all changing. But is this what really
happens? Is it not, on the contrary, very frequent that, out of vanity, for fashion, caprice, or
whimsy, you need demos, not for the superfluous, but until it harmful? It will say that both
meet a need changing, and in this sense win. But if by necessity means a vice, a habit, a bad habit,
an appetite bestial, how do we agree? Well, do you win the Chinese to buy opium poisoning with
him? Do you earn and thrive day laborers, five or six that are of real wages, use two or three
came and one in snuff, perhaps hunger killing their wives and children? "Win's husband, weak or
vain, who insists that his wife has a box at the Opera? Do you earn, in short, which do not
save, which consumes more than it produces, which on income its capital spending, which has the
ability to acquire ten and need to eat thirty or a hundred? Of course, not wins, but loses, and
finally broke. And what happens individuals, can not happen, rather it is with the nations? Just
as there are individuals low ability to produce and very able to spend, there can be, and no
nations with the same qualities? Laziness, waste and incompetence, "can not occur in a nation as
given in a guy?

I do not fear any European nation, no matter how fraught it is for
the above ailments, come at last to be lost and destroyed, as were
destroyed and lost those colossal empires the center of Asia, as those
powerful civilizations collapsed, wonder of the world old.

I do not fear to Madrid, Seville, Lisbon or Florence, you will come to pass Sidon and Tyre that,
Susa, Ecbatana, Nineveh and Babylon Bactra. Although consume much more of what they produced, the punishment
would be limited to long periods of forced abstinence and pitiful plight, that the delay in
relation to other peoples of Europe were higher, and to continue dragging and dropping like
a trailer the other nations. But such is faith I have in progressive virtue, in the vital energy
of European civilization I can not even conceive that a nation that is dying in her womb powerful
and exhilarating. However, the withdrawal of which we spoke, the troubles, going to the trailer
and shame backwardness and inferiority, they are still tough punishment.

To discourse, from a fixed point on these issues so difficult, should first explain why certain
phenomena which offers modern European civilization, phenomena it seems contrary to everything
that in ancient civilizations was noticeable, whence there now comes
the award, given by axiomatic, and are entirely contrary to other
sentences that little has passed through also axiomatic.

In the old, and in the old saying do not go very far (Michael Montaigne and Machiavelli thought
so), rudeness and poverty was thought that gave impetus to the nations and nerve while wealth and
culture of the enervated.

Alejandro was poor and rich beat Darius poor and rough were subjugated by the Romans and the
enlightened, educated and wealthy kingdoms of Macedonia, Syria and Egypt. When the Goths invaded
Greece, reports that tried to burn all libraries, but a clever and discreet captain of the Goths
had to persuade them to libraries were effeminate Greeks, docks and cowardly, and that this was
appropriate leave the books to have them always under the yoke. In this way the libraries were
saved.

Nowadays, however, if a nation decided to undercut another, seek make
ignorant and poor.

Science and wealth, far from thin people today, give them energy and strength, but things well
considered, there is the slightest contradiction in it. In the old, once one of the most common
means of acquiring wealth to the strip neighbors through war. On this day, although these remains, these
violent robberies continue to be, not made in such a grand scale. Milder manners do not agree.
The war, moreover, this mode of stripping violently one nation to another, has become tired expensive.
Production costs in modern warfare tend to be much greater than what is produced, if produced can
be called what it takes against the will of its owner. Hence, first Instead, they hardly undertake
any war and the purpose of enriching, and second , that rich people are those who have more means
to the war and probability of winning. Before, the people are strong and warriors were so rich;
on the day the people get rich in order to be strong and warriors. No doubt will develop more,
when people get rich just to be more moral, happier and more enlightened, but this is still
far. The mania to dominate and prevail over other not be cured in many centuries.

Today not a few authors argue, Buckle and others, as celebrated throughout the world, that Political
Economy conspires an irresistible way to end the bloody wars, to that utopia of perpetual peace
come to be.

For this, no doubt, and for other reasons no less singular, have become so crazy extreme admiration,
adoration and fanaticism of Political Economy. For Buckle, Adam Smith has done more for humanity
than all wise, all prophets and all the immortal geniuses who are born mother and that have human
flesh covered in this naughty world. Neither the laws of Solon, Numa and Manu or all books of
philosophy, or the Gospels themselves, compared with a damn Wealth of Nations. According to Buckle,
the Wealth of Nations is "the most important book who has ever written, its publication has
contributed most to the happiness of the human lineage that talent gathered from all statesmen
and all legislators, who keeps us remember the story a real thing. "

All this may be true, but it is also true that since the year 1776, which came to light for
the first time the book divine Savior, Redeemer and peacemaker, wars have been so frequent as
ever and a thousand times more frightening by the millions of men
in them have perished miserably.

When there is no war, there is a bad thing, perhaps worse than War: armed peace. Money spent
foolishly in maintaining huge armies, and strong men, young and strong in Europe, away from
all useful work are provided with weapons in hand, stalking, spying and threatened. True Economy
Politics and the wonderful book by Adam Smith have not been remedied so wrong. If anything
of remedying it, must be the philosophy, religion better understood than in other centuries,
and the very excess of evil, which might end up make it impossible.

The means of destruction are increased by such art that it is feared that soon may in a minute
kill millions of men, can be fired in a second more bombs, bullets and shrapnel than a century
has skyrocketed in thirty or forty years, and such and so loud shots
may be that the cost of one is sufficient to maintain for a whole
year family.

Spending so much horror and so much bloodshed, the politicians cry, and cry and many, even for
peace and disarmament, not because Adam Smith and his disciples the been convinced. I do not
think that Napoleon III has the heart of butter and jelly; but the awful spectacle of the battlefield
of Solferino, so many thousands of corpses, had to be worrying and the heart, deciding to peace,
even before their promise to free Italy to the Adriatic. Adam Smith and all his theories were not
any part in this determination.

If any economic thinking prevent war or make more difficult in coming, is independent of science:
it is not necessary to have read by economists to conceive. Thought is simple and clear: it
is the thought of how much the war costs. Governments also almost always have to resort to borrowing
to make war.

Those who lend money have an interest in the money provided is grown as possible, So, even without have
other causes, the role of low debt and have the public wealth.

Those who have to lose, the rich men are, therefore, peaceful, and as those with money rule the
day more than ever and have a very large influence on opinion, is that wars are condemned by
public opinion, when there is a strong encouragement of selfishness
that induces them, as, for example, opening a new market for domestic
products, introduced in some countries the freedom to worship little
trade, divine works of Adam Smith, opium or other drugs worse, guns
and bayonets, entertain and recreate and intoxicate the people with
glory so as not to annoy and to rise up, and perhaps disposal, following
the doctrines of an economist, of that part of the population is more
than enough, which is not covered prepared at the feast of life, that
disturbs or breaks the balance that must exist between the output
and consumption, including still and livelihoods.

Besides material and bloody war, has taken in our days that never again rise war brings to
humanity infinite goods, and takes on wings, not by the way real progress, but for a trail
or shortcut. But, as there is no shortcut without work, this another war, which is the industrial
and commercial, fearing disturbances arise, hard conditions, horrible and heartbreaking disappointments
ruins. Does not concern me explain this or do here satire as being of modern societies. I
refer the reader to the Socialists, children legitimate economists and their more cruel and bitter
adversaries. Even the Economy Policy had no greater sin than to have raised their breasts to
socialism could not be acquitted altogether. Moreover, socialism, except that today is just an
outbreak, a desideratum, an aspiration, is, according to some, that
is, it will be with respect to the empirical and pedestrian Political
Economy, which are sublime mathematics with respect to the four rules
of arithmetic.

Social science or sociology tell yourself (and ridiculous hybrid word!) is yet to be invented,
but otherwise the positivists hold. The trouble is that problems that this science has been raised
and not resolved, and criticism bold, intelligent and destructive that has been wavering faith
in the existing social order, have all filled with men suspicion, within each state, assuming always
that violence may occur to resolve the intricate problems of the newest science, to break off
their foundations throughout the building society to rely on other better and stronger. Hence
the not there is only war or armed peace between them and other States, but war or armed peace
that is, constant danger and surprise, within each state. In all which does not appear to been
remedied political economy, but came to worse.

Do not believe the discreet reader will not know what to say to my ramblings in this paper.
At the restaurant he called him an excuse meditation, meditation and being on such a vast and so
on all matters such as money. To be discussed in depth, and clarity, order and convenient method, I
would have been necessary to write a thick volume. But why, I say, you have chosen such a vast
subject, when not writing thought this thick volume, but a newspaper article? To which I answer:
a lack of money the public distress, the plight of the Treasury, the laments I hear everywhere, the
showing some hope that economists will save us, the little confidence warn others in the effectiveness
healthy economists, discreteos of all, means that many proposed, converted into an official,
to lead a safe haven, and the various explanations given about the causes of serious problem
affecting all me with irresistible vehemence has led to meditation and discourse on these issues,
in which I confess I have little or no knowledge.

But considering me as vulgar, profane, I still believe that, if not useful, at least could be entertaining
and interesting to expose him that ponders the vulgar, which Alamba and rambles on the subject.
So I have been echoed faithful of the vulgar in this meditation, embellishing it with some moral
judgments drawn from reading of the philosophers. Do not be surprised, then, that I did not
try anything, I do not conclude anything not chair a dominant thought throughout this letter
of mine.

I fear making me dilate heavy, but I can think of several comments that I have value to pass in
silence.

This is the first that, in the present state of civilization, and still am about to say that
always, not what happens to nations with individuals, which, as stated above, can be sages,
saints and poets and poor. A nation, if intelligent and active, holy, by wise and heroic and
poetic it is, must be rich too. If you become poor, gives sharp and clear signals that it
is unwise, or that is not active, or that have secular disease that has failed to heal.

It said, in 1629, the Padre Fray Benito de Peñalosa and Mondragón, in a curious book which gave
the picture that Spain is very Catholic and very monarchy, and have
three other excellence more, causing its depopulation and ruin.

Buckle says the same thing, in perfect Consistent with the Father Peñalosa, who has guessed
and unread.

Our religious and our love and loyalty to the kings have brought us so lost and so backward. In
contrast, Buckle according to the same in Scotland and there has been great prosperity and
progress. There, although also have the misfortune to be on religious, have had the good fortune
and excellent quality of being very disloyal to their sovereign.

The Scots, says Buckle, have waged war on almost all their kings have
been beheaded several, have killed others, and have even sold one
of them, a certain amount of money they much needed.

The wisdom of the Scots has earned them the prosperity and progress, and above all the glory
of Adam Smith that El Salvador is born between them.

The strange doctrine set out above, identical in Buckle and Peñalosa, can not be refuted or
censored with irony. It is necessary to dispose of them seriously. Not a matter of derision.
No. wealth and prosperity and culture do not go to the people, because people leave God and
kill or sell their princes.

In an individual, perhaps the goodness and excellence of character have been an obstacle to fortune:
in a village, we do not want or believe. Therefore, if Spain is poor today backward fault, not
his virtues, but of his vices, not of good quality, but bad.

Dan other because of our backwardness and our poverty of aridity and soil infertility, offers a
few resources, but even that aridity and sterility that were true, as a nation does not live
in the soil, but the ingenuity and industriousness of their children, could not this need to
be the origin of evil.

In past centuries and in these countries there were and are famous people who have flourished
in sterile soil. The attic floor is an example of this, and Thucydides attributed sterility
which there came to form such a glorious and prosperous state, because
in the early Greek civilization, the men fled the fertile land invaded
or continuously infested with thieves and pirates, and they came to
take refuge in Attica to be protected from the ravages and devastation.

Venice, which was so powerful and America also had a similar origin, and was founded by people
in a runaway gaps the barbarian invaders of Italy. Scotland it will be all colorful and cute
you want, but no one agrees that no course is sterile, no doubt, more sterile than Spain. The same
can be said of Holland and many other countries, if they depart from the imagination that have
already made to improve the art and ingenuity.
 These skeletons, or parts of skeletons,
are turning up every year, and we are just beginning to know much about them. Capable men are
studying them with much care. The next fifty years may not improbably make the history of the
ascent of man as clear as is now that of the horse, to which we shall refer later.

The whole question of the descent of man from the lower animals, or his ascent from them, as
Drummond aptly termed it, is to most people so entirely repugnant as to set them at once, and
finally, against all willingness to consider the question of Evolution. This, however, does
not solve the problem. Even though truth be horribly unpalatable, it is still to be believed
if it is only the truth. There is practically no doubt left among scientific men of the origin
of man in lower forms. The evidences grow more and more complete year by year, and from every
line of investigation. Whether we study his anatomy, his embryology, his history, his language,
or his civilization, all indications point in the same direction. Constant discoveries indicate
the fact of an enormously long development from a very humble form. If this proves to be true
and remains unpalatable, the fault lies in the palate and not in the truth. Gradually we are
coming to understand that there is no reason why this truth should be unpalatable. We consider
a rise from humble conditions to be the glory of our heroes; we esteem it an added charm in
their strength that they should have developed from untoward surroundings. It is not a disgrace
to man to have descended from the apes. It is to the glory of man that he should have ascended
from forms not much more promising-looking than the apes of to-day. We must repeat, however,
that the apes were the unprogressive members, and hence we must not judge man's ancestors too
harshly. It must have been in them to rise. But the great glory in the thought of the humble
ancestry lies in the possibilities of his future. If out of a creature not materially unlike
the gibbering ape of to-day there should have come, under the guiding hand of an Almighty God,
creatures with the endowments and capabilities of man of to-day, then this is only an earnest
and foretaste of that which may be expected in the future. A time will come when man shall
have risen to heights as far above anything he now is as to-day he stands above the ape. Even
then there seems no end. This is said to loosen any spring of action and that makes people weak and prone servitude,
while in countries where people have had to fight hard and overcome great obstacles to earn a
living, after the wins and lives, is more dignified and energetic, and less experienced in
any kind of yoke and clamp. They may eg assertion of India and Egypt, and is not to deny that
they are examples that have the force. Argue, also the cause of the backwardness of Ireland and
humiliation have been the abundance and cheapness of potatoes. Have more reason, in my view,
those who think so, that they attribute backwardness, stagnation, or rather the ground of sterility,
but I dare not to give the reason or some or other, and especially in the case of Spain. I
do not think that neither the climate nor the soil, or fertility, or the exuberance of nature
and its products are or have been among us as in India and in ancient Egypt, nor are could
never produce similar effects.

They say other thinkers, who think little, that all our evil comes from the bad governments. This
statement is unworthy of refutation. No country, not to be under the yoke of tyranny invincible,
has more government than they give and deserve. How much is strongest in Spain, more enlightened,
more discreet, and has ruled. Just be a man left note in every game that has not been minister.
If they are all unfit, strength is conjecture that Spain does not anymore.

No lack of people our backwardness attributed to any love to the welfare and luxury to we are
happy and satisfied to live badly, and not feeling the sting of desire for enjoyment, we chose
not to work. This reasoning is absurd for the falsity of the premise on which is based. All
men, and peculiarly the Spanish, except for some fancy, prefer eating foie gras and truffles to
eat turkey and scrambled chanfaina, rich dress and velvet drapes, to wear cloth, living in a palace,
to live in a hut, and going by car, go on foot. It is not an occult science to know that there
are cars, good cuisine and excellent dishes, fabrics silk, gold and precious stones, and many
other delightful objects, nor is it necessary to have a very soul lifted to covet. No one not
ambitions. If you desire, desire to be rich, wealth depended, Spain is one of the world's richest
nations.

It follows therefore that we do not know why poor Spain, unless we claim, and this I I lean,
who are poor quality opposite to that just mentioned: the love of luxury, extravagance, by disorder,
because we are very lavish indiscreetly and generous, and above all,
because we do not spend and spend without discretion and without splendor.
 Minute and careful dissections of rabbits,
of dogs and cats, of animals slaughtered for food, with occasional post-mortem examinations
of human beings in various stages of the development of the young, leave us no longer in doubt
concerning the main features of the process. The better we come to understand it the more clearly
it becomes evident that in the development of the mammals we have no new procedure, but, as
in so many other activities, new developments of an old process.

There are two entirely different methods by which new animals and plants may arise. One sees
sometimes in the home of a friend a geranium of particular beauty, the like of which he would
be glad to possess. The accommodating friend cuts a small piece from the geranium. This is
stuck into poor but well-watered ground, develops roots, and eventually grows into a geranium
stalk exactly like the one from which it came and of which it is in reality only a detached part.

In similar fashion, if one wants a particular kind of apple, he never trusts to planting an
apple seed. Going to the tree of the variety he desires, he takes from it a small twig provided
with a bud and inserts this bud into a cleft made in the young branch of another apple tree.
The young bud so inserted starts up into a new branch, resembling almost absolutely, not the
tree which feeds it with sap, but the tree from which the bud was originally taken.

When we wish a particular variety of potato we obtain pieces of the potato of the kind we desire.
Each of these must contain an eye, which is a bud of the old potato. When the sprout appears
the new plant will be practically identical in character with the plant from which the potato
was taken. This sort of reproduction, in which a piece of the old parent grows up into the
new generation, is called the asexual method. Maybe I better not the
last porter in Madrid, sometimes physical, sometimes intellectual, sometimes morally considered
and yet, assuming single, any beautiful lady might have even the caprice of love Me, not censor anyone,
but if the porter fall in love, everyone have this passion for extravagance or folly. Then,
in the final outcome, that moves them to love, unless extravagantísimo love, is money, or
something that represents money or purchased with money. What I have spent in educating, pulirme,
wash up and dapper, is nothing more than money.

Finally, the largest and most enviable advantage that money provides is the authority and respectability
to give to whom he has, and the confidence just who has inspired.

III.

These considerations on the influence of money or wealth in the individual, like I happen to discourse
at greater length about the influence of wealth on culture and power nations, but will not record
here more than some very slight concepts. I flinch the fear of getting lost, and very little awareness
of my knowledge in political economy, science that at the end, after much thought, the authors
have all come to agree with Aristotle where is the money, or, more
generally, wealth, where the flame Chrematistics sage of Stagira.

    And even more unfortunate than my own ignorance,
    that

After a hundred thousand books stirred Science out of this tangled and awkward,

no one can know clearly what is wealth. All definitions are discordant and is that science begins
with not knowing how to define, determine and declare the object of science itself. Neither
is more advanced in the definition of other scientific words, such
as value, price, capital, industry and change, which is not strange
because it still ignored it is wealth, which is the key word or idea,
necessarily has to ignore or is it disagree about the rest.

Malthus said: "After so many years of research and many volumes of findings, writers could not
be understood until now about what constitutes wealth, and while
that writers who are employed in this business are better understood,
no conclusions may be taken as a maximum to be followed.

"

Dedúcese of here, Malthus conviction and authority that we should not follow the maximum or Ignoring
one of few economists who preceded him in the sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and
in the first third of this. All these economists do not know what they said, according to Malthus;
and that among them are Smith, Say, Storch, Ricardo, Gioja, Mac-Culloch and other eminences.
They have not progressed further then other wise to give these definitions. Stuart Mill withdraws
to define what is wealth, and says that if only we understand it
in practice, thereby continues.

Bastiat is entangled in harmony with other economists rivals, and is prove you are ignorant
or fools who do not know what is the value.

Indeed, one of these economists attempt to demonstrate that the value of a thing is overcome
the obstacles to produce, which it follows that, the easier it becomes production, reducing
the obstacles, things have less value, so that, while more things there, we will be poorer.
It, therefore, create barriers to production, so that, finding it hard to produce, also worth
a lot of things produced, and we rich. Seems impossible that such ideas are sustained and even
to be challenged seriously. Meanwhile, Bastiat, which is reasonable
at this point, then the change means, not as it is, but as it should
be, and this change model, ideal and fantastic lift an entire building
scientist who brings love to our young economists. These are attracted by the eggs.
Pushing up against them, the head of a sperm cell, consisting almost entirely of the nucleus
of the cell and carrying the determinants which were to decide one-half of its future characters,
penetrated this egg and fused with its nucleus. This was filled with the determinants of the
characters inherited from the mother. Of course many of the eggs, of which probably there are
a thousand, must have escaped fertilization. There are doubtless a thousand sperm cells that
went to utter waste for one which found an egg to fertilize. These eggs nestled in the crevices
between the stones in the warm water of the edge of the lake. Here the sun could easily penetrate
to the bottom and hatch them. The little fish, still guarded by one hovering parent, swam around
in the water long before the yolk of the egg, containing its large amount of food, had been
absorbed into the tissues of the young fish. This fatty store made the abdomen of the fish
in which it lay protrude enormously. Gradually the fish grew larger and the yolk grew smaller
until all had been consumed. Soon the fish began to forage for himself and no longer to demand
or care for the company and protection of its parent. The little sunfish is highly favored
among his comrades in having any care whatever by the parent. In the case of most fishes the
female, swimming slowly over the bottom, deposits her eggs, which are fertilized by the male,
which follows behind her. After the eggs have thus been laid and quickened no other attention
is paid to them by either of the parents.

Fish are stupid almost beyond the comprehension of those who are not students of the minds
of animals. Frogs and toads are a distinct step in advance, and hence their mental activities
play a larger part in the process.

In the love-making of the frogs and toads the song has an important share. In each species
the voice is a little different from that of any other. In our familiar garden toad we have
an excellent illustration of the method common to the entire group. When spring comes an impulse
seems to stir in all the toads of a neighborhood. Heretofore they have stuck faithfully to
dry ground; now they start off for the water. Whether their impulse is simply to move down
hill or whether they by some means detect the near presence of water, I cannot say. Certainly
a new fountain on a lawn will secure in spring its prompt and full share of the neighborhood's
toads. In any event the toads of a district congregate in great numbers in any pond or along
the edge of any moderate stream. Within a short time their flutelike, quivering voice is heard
far and wide. That this note has an attractive power over the female there is no doubt. She
herself makes no effort to imitate, but the song of her mate is persistent and exceedingly
sweet. I have seen a male sit upon a clump of grass and utter his love call. Before he had
been singing for more than half a minute three females hastened toward him from a distance
of perhaps twenty feet. Each seemed anxious to reach as promptly as possible the creature whose
voice had proved so attractive. When the mating comes, the female discharges a series of small
shotlike eggs which are encased in a very tenacious mucous. 

  Instead, America has the same attachment to Europe money, has
  the softness of his vices, with greater intensity, and floor beside
  his splendid, its strong and thriving vegetation, distínguese
  by moral weakness, sterility Smart, yes, it surpasses surpassing
  Europe as in corruption and moral decadence, is two hundred years
  ago the Europe in the noble path of knowledge: that is the America
  the virgin, fresh and shining America.
  

  When you have received the literary education of Europe, when is
  crossed by railway lines, when it's happy day of the abolition
  of this great social crime called Slavery, then, not now,
  America will be a great country.
  

  Today is worked by the thirst of gold, no communications, and is
  in its infancy of knowledge, because as it is in the new public
  life of nations, needs to study and create a history and literature.

One
  of the visits that the traveler should not be dispensed in Rio Janeiro,
is the establishment of crazy that is located just opposite the promenade
and to Bota-fogo sea.

  
  
  A majestic new building, we can very well call palace, elegant shapes
of simple but graceful appearance of solidity and extension, stands
by the sea cute site in the Bota-fogo, and serves to hospital insane.

  
  
  The first observation that I thought, was to note that Emperor
  of Brazil lack of a palace, as the two you have with
  that name are nothing but houses, is a great the thought of the mad
house in a superb home.

  
  
  I do not know if the Brazilians have noted the contrast, as
  to Me, I approved it with all my heart, congratulating to see better
accommodated to the insane Emperor, hopefully the same thing happen
in all countries of the world! the sick, the unfortunate, the insane,
certainly need more than the monarchs, comfort, cleanliness, healthy
air, large rooms and In short, I understand that the misfortune is
more worthy of a palace, that all human greatness.

  
  
  The establishment of Rio de Janeiro is mad at the height of a house
  of the same kind of Europe: large, spacious, well located, with
  excellent internal police: something very rare in Brazil: with good
  hygienic system, with teachers working with very well attended.

Hospitals
  are well within the regular Brazil: In the capital there is a pretty
  good, and is located in a building with more status and importance
that Emperor's Palace: only some monumental building there throughout
Brazil, is called Hospice of Pedro II.

  
  
  The public instruction now begins to insinuate itself, being
  as are unhappy slaves who make up the majority of population of
  the empire, are condemned to live like robots.

  
  
  Governments must care not to black out their dumbing down, fearing
  that the instruction to learn and brothers who are free from their
  oppressors.

  
  Missing books, libraries, museums, intellectual life in word.
  

  The most elegant abode of the Emperor is located in Petropolis
  kind of real place, seven leagues from Rio de Janeiro [35].
  

  The road is in a picturesque and varied, steam sea, land steam,
  and carriage.

  Departing from Rio de Janeiro the traveler embarks on one of the
  steamers that make voyage across the bay consisting of lasting five
quarters Time: When land is taken Mana railroad that leads to the
foot of the mountain on which stands Petrópolis.

  
  
  The railway, poorly constructed, with carriages and detestable
  bad move, has the sole advantage of being very short, because in
  half an hour runs through the extension: completed the second trip,
  he weighs the mountains in wagons drawn by four horses, the
  time spent is an hour, which ending the expedition.

  
  
  In Petrópolis nothing to do absolutely nothing: site Recreation in
  the wind fresh and pure that there breathes its height is larger
  because the temperature is cool, that it.
  

  From the top of the mountain range reaches the sea, mountains and
  delightful countryside. In Petrópolis, whose population barely
  200 inhabitants, has a beautiful palace, the emperor and there
  it goes usually the months of December, January and February, which
are those of more heat.

  For travelers, there are two regular hotels, the East and the English:
  there are some rides and horses rent.
  
  The main ports of the empire are Bahia, Pernambuco, Santa Catalina,
  Parahiba, Paranaguá, Pará.
  
  Pernambuco, unkempt city in the extreme, with streets miserable and
humble homes and without any cleaning, not worth the discomfort of
being seen, and I say discomfort, because it is and no small landing
at the port.

  The waves are constantly angry, and apart from the risk involved
  is long and difficult journey, because the vessels to anchor well
away from the city.

  
  
  The traveler who is not a merchant, will give a very good test like
  not visiting that city in Pernambuco, where it was of
  their trade in cotton and coffee, will not find more than a
  absolute lack of cleanliness.
  

  Almost always prevail in Pernambuco malignancies.
  
  Bahia, Brazil's former capital, there's nothing more remarkable
  than the convenient bay, the city is built on the side of a mountain
and presented to the traveler as an amphitheater.

  

  
  The streets are all unpaved, dirty and in very poor condition: there
  is a modest garden called public promenade, some regular buildings,
a theater, three or four hotels, two walks, and painstaking desire
to show that foreign Cleaning is not the strongest of the Brazilians,
because the same thing Pernambuco and Bahia to Rio de Janeiro are
distinguished by the specialty.

  
  
  In Bahia there is a university, to which very few attend students,
  teachers have Brazilians and just this because strictly speaking,
  in Brazil there are no more city Rio de Janeiro: the other villages
  of the empire are more or less neighborhood, according to
  the importance of their trade.

  
  
  The Brazilian army, composed mostly of blacks and mulattos, is uniform
  with all the jests possible forming an amusing glance the formation
  of battalions, which played without keeping all colors rainbow.

  
  
  The Navy is now beginning to be formed, and the government,
  comprising that for the prosperity of Brazil is absolutely
  necessary a regular navy, promotes and protects as it can.

  
  
  As a constitutionally governed country, Brazil has the duty National,
which is better than the army uniform.

  
  

  One of the positive developments in Brazil is the popular
  institution of the jury in civil matters to criminal include:
  as a country ruled with representative forms, is parliament, composed
  of two chambers that periodically meet with the ministers for
  directing the affairs of the empire.

  
  The periodical press has unlimited freedom, which do not make
  very good use of some newspapers which I had occasion
  to reading, using only voices that are inappropriate in Dictionary
  taverns. Four political newspapers River of some importance: the
  oldest of all is the Journal of Commerce.

  
  
  Major trading houses belong to Brazil foreigners, and also the
  most luxurious and As has European appearance: the activity of
  Brazilian is limited and short, which is understood in ratio to its
climate and to the customs they have inherited from the Portuguese.

  

  
  Women are not very graceful in general.
  
  The weather is not as hot as it is generally believed in Europe:
  only three months of the year the heat is felt with some
  force, but always bearable: the nine months remaining, the temperature
is bearable, being good on particularly in the months of May, June,
July and August are spring and truly magnificent.

  
  
  Rain is frequent in the hottest months, with temperature which is
quite the atmosphere, and the Pampero wind, that very often blows,
refreshes and purifies the air.

  

  
  Thirty-three years, Brazil became independent.
  
  In Brazil there are still monks, which is a calamity, as they have
  in their possession a huge wealth, which disentailed
  would make the country prosper.

  The government should order their immediate sale, and with it would
gain much Brazil, as well as the suppression of the monks, whose institution
has passed.

  
  

  # BUENOS-AIRES AND MONTEVIDEO. #
  

  Rio de Janeiro to Buenos-Aires and Montevideo are used five days
  vapor.
  
  Life is quite different in Brazil: the climate, customs, language,
everything is different.

  
  
  The company is easy and pleasant: in Buenos-Aires, where
  the climate is delicious, they have some good buildings, cafes, hotels,
chic shops, many casinos, where he meets a good society, excellent
walks, two theaters, beautiful women.

  
  

  The political agitation which unfortunately is almost always live
  really sorry: the day they are organized in a way permanent and stable,
giving the country the peace you need.

  
  
  Buenos-Aires is one of the first capital of America South.

Their
  trade is starting to develop in large scale: elements of wealth that
may have to be much.

  
  
  Montevideo is also a lively and animated, his face, similar
  in all to the Buenos-Aires, though less scale also in the minds dispierta
the same painful reflections.

  
  
  The political convulsions that agitated many long years, almost
  ceaselessly objected to its development and prosperity: with sites
  and blockades, have fallen to the ground some of its buildings
  ....
  
  The population has decreased rather than increased ... and leaving
these reflections, sad for everyone, and even more for a Spanish,
we finished our chapter on America, making sincere votes for the prosperity
of the Spanish race that populates their regions, noble race, racial
dignity, which can not perish ever, for more than his misfortunes
have been led to believe the Anglo-Saxon North absorb that one day,
no, no, that day is impossible, that day will never come.

  

  
  GENERAL IMPRESSIONS # #
  
  The trip, which we call open book of instruction, where much can
  be learned: the trip, which widens horizons of intelligence,
  recreating the mood and always offering new and different theaters
  of observation: travel, completing the best education, which provides
  immense joy to behold the beauty of nature, dazed and stand rapt
  in front of the wonders that keeps within it: the trip, providing
  new knowledge that study allows comparative analysis of civilizations
  people among themselves, the trip, which makes the study of customs,
  dispierta love to study languages, the journey, in short,
  is for us the most perfect of educations, the best of pleasures,
  our most determined inclination.

  
  
  The idea alone of a ride through France, Switzerland, Italy, or any
other country in Europe, produces a great satisfaction.

  
  

  Glimpse, even before starting the journey, a series of new emotions
  to which most welcome.
  
  The costumes, language, traditions and customs, nature, and multiple,
present us with interesting, with novelty, charm: we never remember
the discomfort that precision should be supported traveling.

  
  
  Today, with rail lines that cross the Europe, with excellent hotels
that are usually found, no suffer penalties.

  
  
  Apart from our passion for travel, the intimate We are convinced
  that the instruction that report, we have another very useful
  advantage, which is to conformed instinctively and without any study,
applications, customs, language and climate of the country where we
are.

  
  
  While never be Spanish, as we are in our country, where we travel,
  easily accommodate many offer variations together peoples and their
way of life in society, to speak, to feel.

  
  
  When the traveling rule, remains abroad everywhere, we have
  the advantage of assimilating and agree with the new countries we
visited, and this performed, without study, spontaneously.

  

  
  From here on how well we are everywhere.
  
  And indeed, every time you cross a border, hearing speak a new
  language, watching another expression in the faces, stopping on
  the differences in costumes, a pleasant and helpful study begins
for us, with pleasure pretend to know the specific skills and physiognomic
to each of these large families are called nations.

  
  
  For many, the coming to a town in a strange country, which first
  visit is an unpleasant impression, because vain to cross streets
  and squares crowded with people crossing in all directions: as
  a traveler to any known, as No one expects, like all the faces
  are new, it seems then the foreign title saddened and grief,
  making an impression on the mind state painful complete isolation
in which it is.

  
  
  This is what happens to many, and indeed it is understood and explains,
  and is no less true that this situation discourages to some, affected
  by the silence of friendship that makes around it, suffer the first
few days on arrival in New populations.

  
  

  Very different is the impression we received when entering in a
  strange city.
  
  Without pretend, even remotely, to make a ridiculous protest
  of eccentricity, we, to be true, we record that contrary to what
happens to many, we a singular pleasure to experience what we have
noted above.

  
  
  The new faces, the assurance that no one expected, the new way
  of speaking that satisfy our questions, all differences of detail
  than ever seen in a people who've visited for the first time, serve
  Used to study unless we provide matter for comment, we distract and
entertain comfortably.

  
  
  As soon as we entered a completely unknown city, and a quarter
  of an hour after settling down in a hotel We went outside, and without
guides, without commissionnaires alone completely, moving in the direction
that pleases us most.

  
  
  In view of a monument, a striking church, a building value,
  we stop to visit, we entered the temples, going to the competition
sites, look for everywhere.

  
  
  This is our system, this our particular pleasure: if as I confess,
is not everyone's taste, to me gives me nice views, that's the truth.

  
  
  Those traveling with a guide in hand received only rejection ideas,
judge with prevention, talk like the book, and lack the exquisite
pleasure of receiving direct emotions.

  
  
  Before entering a city, the Traveller's Guide browse endlessly, and
  tell them the number of notable buildings that must be visited,
  the special architecture of each, the hotel to that target, the
  sights worth seeing; in other words, regulating the visits
  of traveler, to say the method to observe assessments and communicate
  it preconceptions, and take away the beautiful power of judging
  their own eyes, to feel for his affections, according thinking
  their opinion, write notes to dictate their own taste particular
  criterion, he canceled the trip, I disenchanted advance, stolen the
illusion of novelty.

  
  
  Easily understand that many travelers, perhaps the greatest
  party, judge and see for themselves without adopting the views
  of Guide editor: I know that not all conform to what read,
  but in spite of all his good will to judge for themselves,
  for be independent in their comments, it's always some
  Indeed reading the descriptions, painting the customs and the general
view of the manners and customs the country.

  
  
  Travel with my system, I feel more emotions than you direct receipt
of persons treated, monuments I contemplate, I observe the customs.

  
  
  I judge everything without the intermediary of the Guide, Whichever
  see, according to what I feel. In this way enjoy the most, why
  known is that when you know in advance and descriptions a city,
  the charm of mystery and complete ignorance that is, allowing the
imagination to create landscape paintings varied, disappears completely
and can not take place.

  
  
  Even in large cities follow the same order: chance and
  happen to be my guide, I am the streets better I think, looking for
pleasant surprises and asking only to the chance the occasion of the
monuments.

  
  
  I remember well that on my first trip to London, I had the satisfaction
  to find myself suddenly and unsuspectingly even, over against the
magnificent and impressive building Parliament.

  
  
  The magic thrill that I experienced contemplating, insurance
  I had not appreciated its great value, if it had gone the
  hotel accompanied by a cicerone, who along the way I have described
the building, the severity of their weighted Gothic architecture and
given me an idea of ​​his greatness.

  
  

  Here's why the news always fled and descriptions early, I receive
  for myself.
  

  Targeted briefly my general impressions of travel, and picked up
  on my statements and notes, although disordered editing, finished
  this book, unpretentious writing.
  
  The naive and old-fashioned way of claiming the author
  in the first page of his work, the reader's indulgence, has fallen
into disuse unfortunate or fortunately.

  Even at the risk of appearing disaffected with the current fashion,
  I recommend my humble belatedly book to the kindness of those
  who will browse, whether it be with distraction.
  
  This brief summary statement of my trips to Europe and Latin,
  translates two feelings, involves a twofold desire: I raise my feeble
voice in this loud modern Rome, which Paris called to make known my
dear homeland, and I meet me debt contracted at the beginning of my
trip to pick up my printing and advertising.

  
  
  I fear that my voice goes out into the noise and I suspect that this
book not carefully written, but I have my good intentions.

  

  

  Paris, April 1858.

  
  
  # END.
  #
  
  # INDEX.
  #
  
  To my dear
  friend
  Mr. DG Petan
  and MAZARIEGOS
  In a foreword
  is sometimes
  necessary
  Spain France Paris Switzerland
  Bern England Italy Turin Germany Vienna Portugal America Brazil Buenos-Aires
and Montevideo General impression

[Footnote 1: which employ 60.000
workers.]

[Footnote 2: According to statistics published by the Moniteur
in July 1857, have failed to sign their marriage contracts, not read
or write, a third of men and half women.]

[Footnote 3: Today is the
Bayonne to Bordeaux by way of iron.]

[Footnote 4: It is huge, through
the heart of Paris, ending in the Place de la Bastille.]

[Footnote
5: Worth a special visit to the colossal and imposing of Hales, the
most vast and elegant in Europe.]

[Footnote 6: The column is fused
with the guns that took in the battle of Austerlitz.]

[Footnote 7:
I do not share that opinion.

  The Rachel lived when I first visited the theater.]

[Footnote 8:
At the gates of all households are read names of tenants who live
there: next to each name is the handle of the bell which corresponds
the room.]

[Footnote 9: Today is on track to close iron Bern.]

[Footnote
10: The best hotel in Basel is that of the three Kings with a gallery
on the famous Rhine]

[Footnote 11: All almshouses and instruction
in Switzerland are the best in Europe.]

[Footnote 12: Beside the
lake of Thun is celebrated reputation federal holiday.]

[Footnote
13: Surrounded by elegant homes and palaces, aspect Paris, we cross
several bridges.]

[Footnote 14: In the capital of this canton is
a magnificent manuscript file.]

[Footnote 15: The aristocratic traditions
of some cantons, municipalities argued, have left to exist.]

[Footnote
16: In its many clubs.]

[Footnote 17: Where the people heard the
celebrated Go to church.]

[Footnote 18: Even in the way of calling
to the doors distinguish between rich and poor, that is the English
liberty!]

[Footnote 19: I visited the famous tunnel that lies at
the foot of London Bridge, unnecessary work and pure luxury.]

[Footnote
20: Near Fluelen, Altorf, birthplace of William Tell, with a fountain
in his honor.]

[Footnote 21: It has two other cities in Ticino, Lugano
which are and Locarno, Bellinzona is the capital.]

[Footnote 22:
The Rialto Bridge was built by Antonio de Porte.]

[Footnote 23: Ludovico
Manini was at the head of the republic Venetian when it was killed
by Napoleon in 1799.]

[Footnote 24: In Piazza San Carlo, a monument
dedicated to Emanuele Filiberto, very good, Marrochetti sculptor.]

[Footnote
25: also advised travelers to visit in the Turin Beaumont gallery,
superb armor collection of the Counts House of Savoy.]

[Footnote
26: Solo deserves to be the chapel of the Shroud in the Cathedral
of San Juan, has a black marble vault, quite remarkable.]

[Footnote
27: When I crossed the Savoy, was Eugene Sue established in a village
near Chambery.]

[Footnote 28: Near Chambery, I visited the sites
described and dwelt Rousseau, including Charmettes house, where they
spent his love for Mme Warens, many memories of Savoy.]

[Footnote
29: The one that exists in Dresden, Saxony's capital, is much better
and richer.]

[Footnote 30: For example the new Maxine, adorned with
a magnificent statue of the general Devoy.]

[Footnote 31: In a place
whose name I forget stands a bronze obelisk in memory of the wars
with Napoleon.]

[Footnote 32: In the same university in Munich, studied
the famous philosopher Schelling.]

[Footnote 33: This steam, water
launched in 1836, has been the first to be built in Europe of 2500
tons and first of its size made the voyage to America.]

[Footnote
34: Wood can be said that English is an island, many are the English
who live there.]

[Footnote 35: There is a German colony in Petropolis.]

   No shell is needed because nothing will kill the developing offspring
that is not likely to injure the parent. Not only do the young feed upon the blood of the mother
up to the time of birth, but they are practically dependent upon this same blood after birth.
Though they do not take it directly from the veins, the milk is, none the less, the transformed
blood of the mother. This assures the young of food as well as of protection. Best of all,
the young are provided with the companionship of the mother. Now for the first time animals
learn by example. Heretofore they have been born with a nearly undeviating instinct; now intelligence
begins to arise. They can imitate their mother. Heretofore no acquired characters affected
the young. In the mammals, although the young cannot inherit the acquired habits of the parents,
they can get them by imitation, which serves nearly as well.

There is, however, a more wonderful advantage that comes from the close attachment between
mother and offspring. This intimate relationship brings about an affection of the mother for
her young heretofore unknown in the animal world. It is somewhat paralleled among birds, but
here the care of the nestling is less intimate, far less maternal, than the care of the mammal
for her young. As the number of the young grows less and the care taken of them increases,
the intensity of the affection also increases. By the time we get as high as the dog or the
cat this fondness becomes a fierce, self-sacrificing love. When we come to man, with his high
intellectual powers, with his deeper moral sense, we find a wonderful change. This love of
the mother for her child has grown into the finest emotion possible to the human heart. It
no longer is confined to the dependent life of the child, but follows the offspring through
its entire life, guiding, guarding, shaping its destiny, handing on to the child the treasured
wisdom of the race. Influenced by the example of the mother, the father comes to have a love
for his children. It is not so strong as that of the mother, nor so utterly unselfish, but
it is still a noble and exquisite love. Developing in a different direction, the love of the
mother for her children grows as civilization advances, and spreads over the father of those
children as well. Again reflecting her love, the man finds himself filled with a new feeling
for the woman. It is never as unselfish, as free from desire, as is her love, but it completely
transforms his relation to her. What has been with him simply desire is ennobled and enriched
until it becomes the finest passion of his life, absolutely transforming him, in relation to
her, from a selfish brute into a tender and life-long companion. So utterly does the love thus
engendered transfigure human life that when we seek to express the divine nature in human terms,
and these are the only terms we know how to use, the richest revelation that has come to us
is the conception taught by the Master that "God is Love" and that "as a father pitieth his
children, so the Lord loveth them that fear him."

CHAPTER VIII

THE STORY OF THE HORSE

Ever since men have been familiar with the idea of evolution there has been a temptation on
the part of the zoölogist to draw up pedigrees expressing the relationship between the various
groups of the animal kingdom. The impulse is natural, and, if the resulting tables are not
accepted with too much confidence, the result is not undesirable. The truth of the matter is
that all of these pedigrees are more or less hypothetical. They simply show what connection
seems most likely. In all of them are spaces filled with doubtful names. Each addition to our
acquaintance with the past history of animals necessitates revision of our tables. The student
of fossils, trying to rebuild in imagination the world of the past, finds himself often strangely
unable to link these animals together. The result is that the more we know of fossils, the
more distrustful we become of the easy connections we have been making between groups. Accordingly
we are more than commonly pleased when we find the clear indication of a genuine pedigree,
actually illustrated by real examples, following each other in time through the geological
history. A few of these lines are gradually becoming plain, and none of them is clearer than
the pedigree of our familiar and much loved horse. The example is a particularly interesting
one, not only because of our affection for the animal, but because the horse originated in
all likelihood in North America on the land occupied to-day by our Western plains. As though
he loved the country of his ancestors, he returned after having circled the globe, and once
more went wild in the home of his forefathers. The problem was first worked out in Europe and
later elaborated in this country. Now the history gets its finest expression in the American
Museum of Natural History in New York City. The collection of fossil horses in that institution
surpasses in completeness and in excellence of mounting and of sympathetic restoration any
similar collection representing the ancestry of any other animal in the world.

In the table of Geological Times, given in chapter six, the era of recent life known as the
Cenozoic is seen to occupy something like five million years. This figure, as was previously
suggested, is very uncertain, and may be three or may be six, but is safely represented in
millions. Through most of this time stretches what is known as the Age of Mammals, the Tertiary
Age. Its close, occupying only the last few hundred thousand years, is known as the Age of
Man, the Quaternary. Through perhaps three or four millions of these years stretches the known
pedigree of the horse.

When we go back to the early Tertiary we find a forest, with trees that shed their leaves,
interspersed with glades, in which already the grasses were beginning to be developed. This
state of affairs had existed but for a comparatively short time, geologically speaking. It
had come only in the latter part of the preceding era. Lake and swamp, meadow and forest intermingled
to make a rich and varied scene. Slowly the land toward the western side of North America lifted
itself into plateau and mountain range. Slowly the westerly winds began to be cut off by the
barriers thus raised across their path. As they swept over the plateau and down into the eastern
plain their moisture came to be diminished. Playing with
  the church is a passage, one that I saw in Milan.

  

  
  The Exchange also has its corresponding palace.
  
  The cafes are good, they serve cheap and excellent sorbets. There
  are many good rental cars through the streets of Milan going
  in a carriage with great ease, there are in every street two
  strips of tile where the wheels slip, so that the movement is very
soft, and great speed.

  In the Corso is public gardens in imitation of those of Mabille
  Paris, but not so good.

  
  The Museum of paintings is in a great palace where is the
  Library and art exhibition where he had when he visited.
  
  It is necessary to applying to the church of Santa Maria de la Gracia
  housing as is the bizarre architecture, color historical time,
  and once in church and even without going to Santa Maria is
  necessary to look at all costs the famous painting Leonardo
  da Vinci, who represents the dinner with Jesus Christ Apostles,
  this magnificent table mutilated friars barbarously, and profane
art in a restored clumsy, is in a room of the cloister of Santa Mary,
who now serves as the headquarters, is painted on the wall, and a
sublime inspiration of the famous Vinci.

  
  
  In Milan and in all populations of Italy, there is a large number
of churches, some notable, not including cathedral, an art prodigy.

  
  
  In the field of communications has to railroads Milan Camerlata
  and Treviglio: the latter, which is that of Venice, will completely
  finished soon: there are measures for almost All cities in Italy:
the roads are generally magnificent.

  
  
  The famous La Scala theater, where I heard, our fellow Echebarria
  in the opera The Prophet, is majestic in the within, without,
  as none of which I have seen in all my travels, to the greatness
  of our East Coliseum. The outside the Scala is poor and in bad
  taste: it has the appearance of a home, and an entry reduced, as
  bad taste as the Madrid Theatre by the East side of the palace, whose
form is the same.

  
  

  The scene is very well served at La Scala, leaves nothing
  to satisfactory, excellent and large orchestra, mid-sized company.

Record
  will not stop, and I remember that during the representation keep
  their hats all spectators There standing in the parterre
  and is on the right and left between the wall and chairs, custom
did not seem extremely polite.

  
  
  There are many good cars Milan public, regular hotels reading rooms,
theaters, tours, good cafes and beautiful women.

  
  
  The Austrians, of whom speak little, because I extol the just
  remember, patrolling day and night on the town, ring their swords
in the first row of seats at La Scala, they belongs, from thinking
and talking, etc..

In Milan, were addressed to me at the poetic and
heroic unfortunate Venice.

  I left Milan to Treviglio iron line, an hour way: there I took a
  bus that took me three hours to Cucallo, and thence to Venice
  railway, using nine hours.
  
  The stations of the railway lines that start in Milan, are poor and
poorly made: to go up to the coaches needed show your passport on
the road calling ten or twelve times within the same cars as far along.

Around

  Milan are admirable: I have seen three different lines, and all
  over the countryside flaunts fresh, and enriched with a profuse
  vegetation. From Milan to Treviglio not found any people of importance:
  Cucallo at Venice, are the cities of Brescia, Verona, Vicenza and
Padua, all except the last, to the left going to Venice from Milan.

  
  
  The first is found Brescia, a city of forty thousand inhabitants,
  situated at the foot and on a mountain: I saw one of step,
  has very nice appearance, and many elegant towers. Between
  Brescia and Verona, we present the very pretty Lake Garda
  thirty miles of extension, the largest in Italy, from through which
steam is excellent trip to Trento, Tyrol and several other points.

  
  
  Verona, important, is sixty thousand inhabitants, a flourishing
  agriculture, industry and other branches of setae public wealth,
  to which the Austrians take about 25 percent, according to instead
  of watching had entirely through some taxpayers. Verona and Brescia
  is located also on a mound, is presented in an amphitheater, has
many good churches, among which stands out the cathedral, buildings,
rides, a river flowing with elegant bridges good hotels and cafes.

  
  
  The best street in Verona is the new, according to his purpose
  the palace of Radetzky, which leads into a courtyard bleak. On
  the same street is the palace in 1815 Congress met that conspired
  against Spanish freedom.
  
  The large square of Verona is very notable because it contains
  still within its walls a magnificent Colosseum, built by the Romans
preserved almost complete, with its amphitheaters: today instead of
fighting, running plays during the day.

  
  
  There is also in Verona, considered monumental arch Roman triumph,
  that led to the entry of an Emperor: on the street
  is this arc are still kept tile strips of the track which led to
Rome, for which city, in spite of so great a distance, had as from
all excellent roads.

  
  
  I saw too, because it looked interesting, a stone is and only the
  tomb of Juliet, the passionate Romeo.

  
  The Adige river surrounds most of the city. There are cash, because
  Austrians are there, walls, trenches, canyons, fortifications.

Next
  to the railroad, is the Campo Santo.
  
  There is always in Verona, as the central point between Milan and
Venice, 30 to 40.000 Tudescos.

  
  

  After passing through Verona Vicenza, a city of thirty thousand Population:
  a bit before arriving, and placed on a elevation, are
  the remains of castles same inhabited by the famous and Capuleti
Montecchi.

  Vicenza has, as is indispensable in Italy, many churches, although
I did not see the City told to spend more than thirty towers, including
stands out very high.

  
  

  The countryside, from Milan to near Venice, is superb and admirable:
  the blue sky, serene, beautiful, and the appearance of cities
  that come their way, lovely.
  
  After following Padua Vicenza, with fifty thousand inhabitants,
  crecidísimo number of churches, good and many buildings, among
  excels temples owner of San Antonio de Padua, where are relics of it.

  
  
  After Padua, you get to the magical Venice, where I went to eight
in the evening.

  Moments before entering the enchanted city, cross, on the railroad,
  of course, a superb stone bridge half mile long, composed of 222
  eyes work that cost twenty million real: it is called Bridge St.
  Second.

  We have built for the railroad could reach in Venice, as it comes,
  for the landing is at the entrance of the Grand Canal.
  
  It crosses through him, and driven by steam, the whole lagoons that
  surround the city by the side of Padua, as bridge has no more width
  than necessary, and from cars is not the traveler appears to cross
  the sea with a rail sliding on its surface.
  

  I, although the work is remarkable, I wish that the did, because
  with it have been removed from its appearance at Venice floating
  and poetic as it is isolated from the waters that surrounded
  on all sides.
  

  To dismount in Venice, I went with the other passengers in
  the room luggage, in which everyone is liable to discovered,
  not courtesy, but because they are there the Austrians, more
  insolent than anywhere else.

  Before arriving and in the same railroad, we collected the passports;
  to get down, asked us our names, made us designate the hotel
  where we were heading, and the days thought to remain on
  its premises. We recorded luggage, and then had the kindness to
  let us continue to our hotels ....
  
  A gondola I drove from the landing of the road iron, the
  hotel de la Luna, where I stayed.
  
  It was night, there was moon to arrive at my hotel, cross many streets,
many channels ie: movement, light the sky, the memories that rushed
to my imagination of ancient power of the Venetian Republic, the infinite
I saw marble palaces to the hotel, the number of gondolas were crossed,
the sweet words my gondolier changed with another of his office whenever
you turned a corner to avoid a collision, the music that I heard the
front pass the pride of San Marco Square, this whole set Fantasy hurting
mightily, he had heard me with dislike the voice of the gondolier,
announcing that we arrived.

  
  

  Immediately I got a room at the hotel and kept my room, I rushed
  into the street, and to the two steps, as the hotel of the Moon
  is playing, I found myself suddenly in the Square San Marcos.

Describe
  my emotion is not possible if I can tell you what I saw,
  and I will say as everything is written, aided only by memories,
  not wanting to consult a book, my memories and my portfolio, there
  always point impressions.
  
  St. Mark's Square, longer than wide, has no rival Basilica
  of San Marco, forming the main facade, to the left a building
  that occupies the entire canvas of the old prosecutors,
  to the right the palace of the Emperor, the entire hand, and turns
to the Piazzetta, and in front of the Basilica another body majestic,
behold the four fronts large square.

  
  
  To the left of the church, stands a tall tower isolated Campanella
  called.

  
  Arcos prodigious, taste, art, beauty, shapes are back to the
  three facades of the square. Below them offer between heavy
  hundred gas lamps elegant shops and cafes.

  
  St. Mark's Square, and all of Venice, not excepting a one street,
  is well paved.
  
  At noon of the day, it's funny to go to St. Mark's Square to
  see Feeding pigeons: hundreds of them, who walk constantly
  in the midst of the crowd, and to which no upset, eat their rations
in the middle of the square.

  A rich Venetian left in his will a demand for this purpose.
  

  The Ducal Palace, which is attached to the basilica of St. Mark,
  is one of those palaces that dreams of a heated imagination,
  is the realization of a dream is a big monumental work,
  to which standing there are two columns brought from Asia, a group
of Alexandria four ancient figures attached to the wall without describing
order, according to my shorthand notes, according to me Okay, go ahead.

The

  main facade of the Doge's Palace was built by the middle XIV
  century, under the direction of teacher Buono, although some claim
that calendar was the architect.

  
  
  Either way, it is a magical and wonderful building style Gothic,
  and one of those miracles of art that abound in Italy.
  

  The boldness of the construction of the Ducal Palace has some truly
  daring: the huge upper body mass very heavy and bulky, is groundless
  and based on two series of slight and slender columns. The material
  will consist exclusively white and red marble: Spires all columns
  are masterpieces of art.
  
  The facades of the same palace overlooking the canal and to the Church
of St. Mark, are more modern than the main one, are work of the Renaissance:
the styles of them are different, skillfully combined, playing with
ogival arches arches resulting in a miscellaneous round picturesque
and magnificent, the marbles of different colors that make up the
material, are the best, and the view is recreated as contemplating
magnificent palace.

  
  
  In her powerful beauty that adds excellent location holds: attached
to the marvelous Basilica of St. Mark, with a facade admirable on
the Piazzetta, with superb paintings side channel, with large buildings
in front, with the Piazza San Mark the side.

  
  
  So much for the outside: Now we will enter your huge rooms, rich in
art and elegance, but before arriving at its main body will have occasion
to pause and admire the splendid staircase of the Giants.

  
  
  Giant's Ladder, built in the fifteenth century, seems a lie
  bright handcrafted, a work that is not executed in wax at the
  bottom there are two colossal statues of marble, Neptune and Mars.
  The golden ladder properly called such with metal carved his name,
with luxury decoration there is no example, with a prodigious artistic
taste with coffered ceilings and roofs of wonders, with marble steps
and porphyry, with carved statues of teachers, in a word miracles.

  
  
  The Ducal Palace is composed of many rooms: the Grand Council,
  where he met 1,500 members, contains all portraits of the Doges
  who have presided over the Republic: Missing Marino Faliero who
  was beheaded, instead of the portrait, there a table that has the
  tragic event.
  

  The roof, dressed in trim, is covered with pictures Paul Veronese
  magnificent, Titian, Tintoretto, etc..
  
  In the main wall of the room, there is a marvelous picture of Tintoretto,
  the largest of acquaintances filled the wall represents Paradise,
is a model drawing, colorful, thought and execution, is a masterpiece
has, over four figures: it is admirable.

  
  
  In the center of the room are two huge balloons, to the left, going
  there on a shelf of books several manuscripts Petrarca, Catullus
and other famous writers.

  
  
  The Senate hall, magnificent as everyone in the Ducal Palace; There
  are two huge dials instead of timers have zodiac signs to mark
  the hours: pictures from first artists, ceiling moldings, doors
  of ebony.
  
  The map room contains large and excellent engravings designate
  all the voyages and discoveries made by the famous Venetian Marco
Polo, who was among the first visitors America.

  
  
  The hall of the Council of the inquisitors of state, which consisted
  of three members, is filled with canvases of Veronese, proud, as
  all that fell from his palette: the floor of this room, like all
the mosaic is more beautiful inlaid marble.

  
  

  The Hall of Ambassadors, where the president of the republic,
  Dux, met with the ministers of foreign courts, is mahogany and cedar
  doors, brought from the church of Hagia Sophia Constantinople,
  wonderful stalls, tables.
  

  The hall of the Council of Ten carved paintings beautifully.
   Many biologists since his time have doubted whether unaided Natural Selection
will account for the constant advance in organisms. This is the part of the work which is often
seriously questioned.

Weissman and his co-workers have contended that this unaided principle will serve. Most biologists
have asked for some more efficient cause, and assert that selection does not account for the
appearance of variations, but only for their preservation, and that any valid theory of evolution
must show how variations originate. It is chiefly in this respect that Darwin's work has failed
to satisfy many later biologists. When we hear a scientist speak of Darwinism as being dead,
this is what he means. He does not think evolution false, but believes that Natural Selection
is not sufficient to account for evolution. There are three main difficulties involved in Darwin's
theory. The chief defect lies in the fact that selection cannot originate varieties. In all
his earlier works Darwin simply accepted variations as he found them. He was content to say
that all species varied constantly, and in every direction. He gave no theory to account for
variation. Whenever he took measurements of the dimensions of any large series of objects of
the same kind he found these measurements to vary, apparently, in all directions. Upon the
facts of these variations, and without accounting for them, he built his own theory of evolution.
He realized his weakness, and acknowledged it in his book. He probably did not anticipate how
insistently later biologists would demand an explanation that would account for this variation.
In his later work, responding to this criticism, Darwin originated a theory which he called
Pangenesis. He believed that when an adult animal had responded to his environment and acquired
a new character he could transmit this character to his offspring. At that time no one doubted
this fact. The whole theory of Lamarck was based on the assumption that this could be done.
Darwin suggested that every organ of the body threw off minute particles, which he called pangenes.
These little bodies, carried by the blood, were taken up by the egg cells or sperm cells, and
the latter cells determined the future development. Consequently, the character of the new
individual was determined by the parental pangenes. In this way the gain acquired by one generation
could be passed on to the next. This theory was purely speculative. He never pretended that
there was the faintest corroborating evidence visible to the microscope in the organ, in the
blood, or in the germ cell. It was not an accounting for what is, but for what it seemed possible
to him might be.

This theory of Pangenesis, in the shape in which Darwin promulgated it, has dropped out of
consideration almost entirely. DeVries of recent years has revised it, but with distinct modifications,
and most biologists pay no attention to it.

There is a school of biologists, headed by Weissman, who have come to be known as Neo-Darwinians.
These men have insisted that Natural Selection, if properly understood and developed, is quite
sufficient to account for the fact of evolution, including the appearance of variations. Weissman
himself is a microscopist of more than common skill. He is thoroughly accomplished in the most
modern methods of killing, fixing, staining, and mounting. This worker's acquaintance with
the intimate structure of the cell is probably as great as that of any other man in the world.
Weissman asserts that he has seen inside the nucleus all the machinery necessary to explain
how the father hands over his qualities to his children. He insists, equally strongly, that
this process is such that no father can hand to his child any qualities which he himself did
not have at least in potentiality at his birth. Everything the individual acquires during his
lifetime is his own possession, which he may use and develop to the utmost extent, but it dies
with him. His children, born after he possesses it, can no more inherit it than those born
before. Weissman expressed this in his famous statement that "There is no inheritance of acquired
characters." The biological world has had no shock equal to this since Darwin's time, and there
are few other questions to which scientists to-day return with such constant vigor.

If what Weissman says is true, that no variation or development which comes to an animal during
his lifetime can be transferred into his own germ cells and handed on to his children, then
it becomes evident that we must find some cause of variation that acts within the germ cells.
This is the difficulty which Weissman meets. He says that there are small particles in the
nucleus of each cell; that these particles which he calls determinants decide the form and
the course of development of that cell; that when that cell divides to produce another cell
it gives to this other cell one-half of each determinant. As a result the second cell grows
to be like the first. This tells us why offspring are like their parents. There is nothing
in the theory thus far to show us why offspring are not exactly like their parents. In other
words, there is no accounting, thus far in the theory, for variation. When the biologist studies
carefully the history of an egg while it is being formed, he sees that at one stage in its
development it throws away not one-half of each determinant, but one-half of the determinants.
When an egg does this, it deliberately casts aside one-half of the possibilities of its own
development. This throwing away is quite as effective for all its descendants. Any ancestral
quality now lost is lost from the line forever. In the formation of the sperm cell set free
by the male a similar throwing away of one-half the characters has taken place. The egg cell
and the sperm cell fuse together. There are as many possibilities now as there were in either
parent, but not all the potentialities of both parents. Half the possibilities of each have
been thrown away, and hence cannot appear in the offspring. By this constant process we get,
in every generation, new combinations of qualities. This is the main cause, says Weissman,
for variations.

There is, however, another possible cause. Each cell has enough determinants in it for many
individuals, and it seems to be more or less a matter of accident which qualities shall come
out. It has been suggested that as an egg lies within the gland, a blood vessel may bring blood
to it in such way that a determinant, lying in a certain position in the egg, may get the richest
supply of blood, and hence develop at the expense of the less nourished determinant. By these
two methods variation comes into an animal's life, if Weissman and his school are to be believed.

This is a serious blow, if true, to many theories of evolution. The great mass of evolutionists
still feel that somehow there is an influence by which the environment produces variation.
How the influences of the surrounding world can get down into the body of the parent and affect
the egg is unknown. This is freely confessed by every biologist. All are agreed that Weissman's
work has made us cautious, and prevented our lightly accepting a belief in the influence of
the environment. Yet it is felt by many that slowly and gradually, in the long run, the germ
is affected in the same manner as is the body of the parent. In other words, even those who
are not followers of Weissman, have accepted the idea that there is little inheritance of acquired
characters. We analyze the spirit age
  of each village, attends to his interior life, you learn much in
  a word.

  
  There is no book more precious than the journey, that is, to put
  well, a geography practice: but it is also true, resuming truncated
  my thought, there can be a general ideas form on other countries
  without leaving their own, and those are precisely what I have confirmed
with my travels.

  
  

  Always my predilection In reviewing the nations remember to Germany.

I
  hasten to protest against the deduction that could be assuming
  that in politics I prefer the larger system German governments,
  not in any way, and even this protest was useless, as are written
  and published my opinions on the government of Austria.

  
  
  No, not that, I mean the German intelligence, German thinker of the
German writers, of Germany studious and serious, the German-educated
and deep.

  
  
  It is without doubt the most advanced nation Germany in Europe
  lyrics, the more people who meditate and read, the people who have
more literary consciousness, but righteousness thinker, if I use the
phrase.

  
  
  To enter Germany and begins to feel the noise leaky press books,
  the flight of the illustrated newspapers circulating, faces begin
  to be serious that the study and only the study folding, not the
political turmoil in other countries, not in existence as stunned
more.

  
  
  In Germany, unlike France, is read and studied more than is written.

  But by chance something can be compared in these two peoples?

The
  literary Spain is very popular in Switzerland and Germany, and
  England also, in Germany especially, where ceaselessly studies
  and results, comments and admires the literary treasure our country.

  

  
  But let's get into Munich, that but never arrive.
  
  A circumstance indispensable for foreigners who visit the capital
  of Bavaria and want to take full advantage is ... of knowing buried
in his stomach at least a dozen glasses of beer per day means, if
you can drink more better.

  
  
  No joke that just joined, it is true, drink beer all day and everywhere,
  with it you engage the illustrated literary polemics that make
  up life at Munich; as it appears it facilitates the use of
  the word discútense arts, literature, history, every day,
  forever, "but How? admirable, admirable, with deep knowledge, spirit
quite clear, with sound and high critical.

  
  

  In Germany it happens everyday to review the literatures of Europe,
  but magazine thorough, reasoned, profound.
  
  To enjoy the immense charm, which to me is, to discuss on letters,
  you need to know to drink beer is not beer of London, is not giving
  pale ale in the taverns of capital of Albion and the British hold
dear, no, is a nice beer that I liked very, very much, for using I
witnessed it lively and interesting discussions.

  
  

  The first visit abroad in Munich is the famous gallery of paintings
  that enriches the city [29].
  
  There is certainly plenty to see and admire in the Museum of Munich.
  It consists of nine rooms, there are superb collections of painters
  Flemish and German; delicious paintings of the Italian school and
marvelous pictures of the Spanish; there Murillos, Zurbaranes and
Velasquez, the sculpture gallery is rich in monuments Ancient Greece
and works of Canova.

  
  
  The formation of the Munich museum has chaired the order and good
  taste, the enlightened monarch who has been at the forefront
  of nation until recently, that monarch artist who has made many
  trip to Rome just to study, that both protected the artists, has
spent many sleepless nights at the magnificent gallery I speak.

  
  
  All paintings are admired there, all the pictures that elements,
  are each in their place, occupying the place belongs in the
  history of art there followed step by step since its origin and
  subsequent development to the peak of its glory in time the Raphaels
  and Murillo. In the placement of Tables hand is understood and knew
  about the Germans: no so in other museums I've visited in other countries:
what disorder which means ignorance!

  
  
  The painting is smart to spend delightful hours in the Munich museum,
  there is studied and admired, there are many works teachers,
  there are miracles of art, there are many superb paintings,
  and as I am a painter and I just museums to admire, concluded by
recommending to all who go to Munich not go without knowing.

  
  
  One of the best streets in Munich, I went through many Sometimes,
  because I was happy to study even the way the face of shops and houses,
is the Ludwig-Strasse, long, wide and beautiful.

  
  
  The shops and stores, with that special character that I meeting
  in all that is German, with that accuracy and peculiar formality,
  deserve to be careful. Entering shops, but not buy, just for
  the pleasure that I I have in all foreign nations to see and hear,
  to see to details, to hear the manner of expression, is learned and
study.

  
  
  Apart from this street, there are other very good and elegant
  [30], but is undoubtedly the best of that. Munich is a magnificent
  theater Opera near the Royal Palace, where also are represented
  comedies: one and one in German, as in Switzerland, where I heard
almost all the operas of German repertoire.

  Cuéntanse other theaters.
  
  The traveler is in Munich excellent hotels, cafes and rides: needless
to add that there are many rich libraries where you read and study
hard.

  
  
  The Central Library, one of the largest in Europe, is rich especially
  in manuscripts: some of the eighth and ninth centuries. The collection
  is precious and numerous coins: coins Greek and Roman of the
  highest antiquity.

  A wonderful book which has the aforementioned library is enriched
  with engravings Durer's original.
  

  The University Library consists of 200,000 volumes: there
  are other groups as well as schools, colleges, professorships,
  literary establishments.

  
  
  Singing society is composed of nine hundred Munich members: there
are great concerts at the Odeon: cuéntanse many casinos.

  
  
  The major churches in the capital of Bavaria are the San Miguel, the
cathedral, with its tall towers, the elegant church St. Louis, and
the very pretty church of San Pedro.

  
  
  The population of Munich, according to the latest census, is
  composed of 110.000 inhabitants.

  They have, as elsewhere, established freedom of religion,
  but the majority is Catholic in Munich.
  
  The Temple of Glory, which rises above the height gallardo Sendling
  is Doric, contains two hundred busts national celebrities. Front
  of the building one can admire colossal and magnificent statue of
bronze.

  
  
  The Isar River flows near Munich, and cheers and fertilize your
  countryside.

  Worth a look around, and in particular famous recreational site
  called Schleissheim: half a league far of the city, and it remains
a precious collection boxes, whose illustrious firms are Van Dyck,
Rubens, Privileged Tintoretto and other artists.

  
  

  Munich's main squares are those of Maximilian Joseph Odeon, Bakers
  and two others whose names I forget. Cuéntanse some statues dedicated
  to the Virgin, which I drew considerable attention, because only
in Italy had seen.

  
  
  In Munich there are many reading rooms, and both houses instruction
  charity as well understood.
  
  The prisons in their internal organization system and leave nothing
be desired.

  
  
  The family, the main foundation of society rests on Bavaria on
  the broad basis of morality, and of the home come good citizens.

The
  people can read and write, and this holy bread of the soul, instruction
  is called, you haggle and scarce in many nations European governments,
  is given and is used abundantly people in Munich and throughout Germany,
especially in Saxony, that Switzerland make up the two nations in
the world where instruction is more widespread.

  
  
  One of the magnificent buildings of Munich is the royal palace so
beautiful inside and out.

  One of the rooms that Salon has called the Beautiful: there are
  portraits beloved of all who had the monarch, including saw
  to our troubled and famous compatriot, Lola Montes, in painting
  means. The palace is beautifully dressed and decor, art and good
  taste will fill [31].
  

  The University of Munich, to which young people attending all
  nations, supplies to the capital of Bavaria a nice novelty overseas.

The
  quota of students that there are different from those from other
  countries, in costumes, customs, in all, encourages city, provides
issues to journalists and writers, gives a respectable figure to the
statistical year in beer consumption and snuff, frightens them more
than four husbands, bat challenges discussed, move, budge, tingling
[32].

  

  
  The tour of the Gardens next to the four beautiful streets that
  intersect, forming so picturesque frame, is the point appointment
and reunion of the society of Munich.

  Tivoli Gardens Hofgarten and are also delicious.
  
  # VIENNA. #
  
  The capital of Austria, situated on a plain surrounded by many
  and varied hills, appears at once to the view traveler as
  a city of importance.

  
  The description in my notes encounter is brief and concise: having
just spent fifteen days in Vienna, I was arrest can be studied with
as the capital has worth to be seen, however, as my only occupation
in Vienna outside of sightseeing and visit the most notable, I think
Vienna chapter, though short, will not contain some data and news.

  
  
  Of Leipsic and Prague, cities that I visited only in passing,
  nothing I can say, so we go in Vienna.
  
  The Danube, this striking and majestic river that has witnessed many
battles and events as witnessed important, through and around Vienna
with its waves ever turbulent.

  The appearance of the river, divided into many channels and different
  courses and in Vienna offers not respond to the idea greatness
  that it is formed has not yet visited.
  
  The streets of Vienna, with the exception of modern, are generally
  narrow.

  The general appearance of the city is not a capital of Germany:
  the face of some palaces resembles rather, Italy. There are
  however the odd building Gothic style reminiscent of medieval and
ancient colorful provided to the city.

  
  
  The most imposing and majestic church in Vienna is the San Esteban:
  its high bell tower dominates all buildings and rears its head high
  above all.
  
  Religious thought, symbolized in San Esteban, crown all noises, dome
serves and protects all ideas and sponsoring all the emotions.

  As the church is the temple democratic as possible, where
  all inequalities are leveled, or to be less so, according to
  the thought of Jesus Christ, I find that deserves censure the
  idea of ​​giving to churches Christian highest height of
  all the buildings.
  

  The tower of St. Stephen is a summary of the somewhat history of
  Austria and his art has only started in 1100 graceful and
  slender could rise in 1307, using its construction over two centuries
  and depicting it thousand vicissitudes and memories. Inside
  the church responds to the from the outside announces, is majestic
  and severe.
  
  The church of the Augustinian worth being seen by more than
  a concept: apart from the beauty of the building, the famous Canova
is there one of the best sites that has marble inspired writing chisel.

  The tomb of the Archduchess Cristina, vanity magnificent mausoleum
  was built, gave origin, and therefore deserves and forgive, to
  Canova, the sculptor unrivaled deploy their talents in the work.
  The who loves the arts, however little understanding of sculpture,
  not leave without visiting Vienna.

  
  
  Another notable is the temple of San Pedro, built in 800 by Carlo
  Magno.

  His venerable antiquity and artistic beauty attract the eye of the
  beholder and content of imagination, which look like a past so
  distant and yet so strong and robust.
  
  In Vienna, however, dominated almost exclusively the religion Catholic,
  also has the good fortune to tolerate the other: There are temples
  for all religions, and placed one in front of others,
  there is indifference or hypocrisy.

  
  
  The Emperor's Palace is surely one of the best Europe is modest
  and nothing else: in the garden on the one hand he Decorating is
  a statue dedicated to Francis I. The square arms, near the palace,
  da front garden of the People whose title I have not understood
  yet, in the capital of an empire ruled with absolute form, I suppose
  that is what the French call a plaisanterie, although not
  better taste.
  
  The main streets are the Herngasse, of Lords, the Gate of Heaven and
four or five.

  I called much attention to observe that quite often traveler in
  the streets and squares columns dedicated to the Virgin,
  the Trinity and other religious symbols. I find the most expressive
  forms in religion actions are truly Christian, fleeing the
  light and sight, hiding in the sanctuary consciousness. But
  anyway, like I have a unique tolerate complacency in any respect
the views of others, say nothing against it, I issue my opinion only.

  
  
  The greatest places I had occasion to see in Vienna are the Flour
  and Joseph: Both are spacious and monumental. The traveler
  who likes to know what the old cities that do have different views,
  there are some buildings that are worth seeing.

  Sources abound in squares, which is very good.
  
  The charitable institutions are admirably understood
  and organized in Vienna: the poor, those disinherited of fortune,
  that the world scarcely deigns to look, very sweet and gentle
  religion of the Crucified picks affectionate and warm with love in
their temples hospitals: those of Vienna leave little to be desired,
are admirable.

  
  
  Literary establishments in Vienna, as in Germany, attract your attention.
  This part of Europe, the elegant Madame de Stael called the
  homeland of thought, and that is indeed the east of where we comes
  in light of scientific advances, a loving devoted care to collect
  books and literary monuments.
  
  Vienna's main library contains 300.000 volumes but selected
  works of intelligence treasures and knowledge. There, the
  most precious monuments that science has risen, are met: there,
  in the presence of so many great flow of ideas, the man understands
  his dignity, grandeur and high purpose for which it was created.
  There Queen intelligence, sovereign of the world, there can breathe
the air glory, where great pyramids rise such that signal way of the
world, there are gathered heroes thinking, intelligence athletes,
there is the true aristocracy of humanity, which account for coats
300.000 volumes: there is the pride of societies, future wealth and
glory of the past, the honor of present age.

  
  
  In the library of Vienna, philosophers, scientists and writers
  all climates and languages, brethren, by the relationship
  of soul, living together in peace: there is the best tree possible
  human genealogical lineage, these are the establishments that
  I visit with pleasure and predilection: never, in any country,
  I tried to see the armories, arsenals instruments of death that
  nothing good can say, the Libraries honor a nation, I think
  so, and doing a point to my involuntary thoughts, say some of the
Library of Vienna.

  
  
  Phoenix Works of Spanish mills, monster Lope de Vega fertility,
  which in Spain do not possess complete, it in the library of Vienna,
occupying part of a main rooms and carefully tended.

  
  
  The manuscript collection is rich and important: there are many
  Latino writers, Spanish, French and Italian: Taso manuscripts
  that the library owns are Vienna precious and of great value: the
number of manuscripts enriches the library rises to 16.000.

  
  
  There is also the capital of Austria five or six libraries,
  excellent employees at its head and numerous precious book
  collections.

  The academies, cultural centers, and other literary establishment,
  respond to the needs intellectuals of the country.
  
  The Museum of paintings is also remarkable: the Italian room contains
paintings by Andrea del Sarto, Titian, Veronese, Vinci and others,
that the Emperor of Austria has been very easy to acquire thanks to
his domination in Milan and Venice.

  
  
  The Spanish school is worthily represented in the museum Vienna by
Velasquez, Murillo, Zurbaran and Gano, each which has bold canvases
there amazing inspiration.

  
  

  Van Dyck, Rubens, Rembrandt and other artists of great merit
  enrich the collection of tables that has gathered there.

There
  are six theaters that has Vienna in the city and the suburbs:
  the main near the square Flour, and where people sing Italian
  opera, not worth much, both because of the poor as its artistic
  significance defective construction noise. In the months April,
  May and June, Italian opera season was heard in the theater Vienna
good singers.

  
  
  Life in the capital of Austria has something of the life
  of a province, it would seem that everything is there regulated,
  and at the hour fixed beforehand and marked all distractions
  must end. The shows begin very soon, at ten o'clock night all
  theaters and cafes are closed, and each citizen retires to his
  house, the same, exactly the same in a provincial town, which is
certainly not very nice.

  
  
  The best ride is the call the Vienna Prater, site very pleasant,
  planted with trees and embellished with vicinity of the Danube.
  The Prater is a reunion point very entertaining and popular, there
are also various public gardens pretty good.

  
  
  The theater in Vienna, as in all of Germany, is fed Translation:
  after Lessing, Schiller and Goethe, made extraordinary efforts
  to emancipate his country from paying tribute to foreign scenes,
  no one has up from his prostration: dramatic literature, properly
  that does not exist in Germany. Apart from Austrian censorship
  short flight to the imagination, lack a center in Germany where
  there is so indispensably needs a theater there: authors, audience
  and actors. In Germany, thanks to its infinite divisions into
  small kingdoms and duchies, all is dispersed, as the national spirit,
that scarcely exists. Some day there will be no difference so far as purity of life is concerned,
between the two who present themselves at the altar asking the blessing of God on their union.

If anyone doubts that English speaking people are becoming cleaner of life he needs only to
consult the literature of the past. No one dreams of finding fault with Chaucer because his
stories related in the company of men and women often would not bear such telling to-day. Shakespeare,
with all his wonderful genius, needs expurgating if one would read him aloud comfortably to
a mixed audience. And these are the shining stars. When we drop below them, the literature
of their time becomes nearly impossible to read. Fielding and Smollett and Stern helped to
build up the English novel, but the stories they tell speak of the grossness of their time
in language that is unmistakable. We are by no means clean to-day. A fair proportion of our
novels leave much to be desired. The stage is the scene of much we could wish to see cleaner.
Above all this grossness there towers a sweetness and beauty of thought, and an earnestness
of purpose, a sincerity of effort, which makes the present time fuller of moral purpose, fuller
of the desire to be clean and to help others to be clean, than graced any previous period in
the history of either England or America.

Under the change from country to city life man has suffered. Here too evolution is necessary.
City life tells hard on the second generation and nearly destroys the third; but we have come
to understand the difficulty and are fast remedying it. It is more than possible that the next
generation will see such changes in the life of the worker in the great center, as shall effectively
stop the physical deterioration that has come to the city dweller. God grant that modern civilization
has had teaching enough and learned its lesson well enough. God grant further that we may give
over slaughtering our most ambitious and vigorous young men in battle to settle questions which
battle can never settle. God grant that we have come to a turning of the ways where the life
of men, women and children, no matter how humble their station, shall stand higher in value
than the profits of any commercial venture. God grant that we will soon be firm enough to declare
that a business which can only live by sacrificing the health and strength of the workers must
be counted an unprofitable business, and be allowed to cease. God grant finally that the American
people may learn from the past to guard against a like fate in the future; that here may be
the people whose strength, intelligence and uprightness shall lead the world; not for the sake
of exceeding the world, but with the high mission of setting to the world an example of what
can come to a vigorous, free and God-fearing people.

In the early history of the evolution of man the struggle almost always concerns the individual.
Gradually the family comes to be the fuller unit. Only that is success which leads to the success
of this higher group. After a time the family broadens to the tribe, and then the tribe to
the nation. The evolution of social institutions is at present going on at an enormously rapid
rate. Throughout the civilized world democracy is coming to its own. Even where the form of
monarchy still prevails, the subjects of the monarch are having more and more rights. The people
of England are surely as free as are the people of the United States. Increasingly all forms
of government will secure for all their subjects, no matter what their station in life, a fair
share of the general prosperity. In this field, human evolution is perhaps more rapid than
in any other.

Any individual human being is a network of traits and peculiarities. He has all the ordinary
attributes of humanity, but to the whole complex he gives an individual peculiarity which is
totally his own. Where did he get his qualities? 

  These were my words, is my conclusion whenever necessary returning
  from the field.

  
  The idea of ​​visiting new countries, is constantly present my
  imagination with a delightful mystery that fascinated me. The
  language, dress, customs, life analyzed whole and in detail,
  fingíala in my desire, as distinct and new, in comparison with the
one I knew.

  
  
  Later, when I glimpsed the utility of travel by instruction
  and knowledge of the World reported, took letter nature within my
brain - so to speak - the idea travel.

  
  
  Today, fortunately I have visited some countries, giving satisfaction
  to my aspirations fulfilled, right and up need is concrete in a single
box of my memories excursions.

  
  
  Do not pretend to write a book: if the phrase was not worn, I call
  this epitome impressions of travel, but many are and so have named
  to his notes, that I turn away such haste to finish this bad
  diction and hilbanado foreword by asking the reader to rate this
work as more picture to his liking.

  
  
  Either way, this publication is not nothing but a natural picture
gallery taken at the sight: the colors employment, taken from my poor
palette, are weak but accurate.

  
  
  And just for a preface: it was necessary to state that this
  book is not the son of fashion: if I'm correct, I pointed and, if
not well understood, unless it be known I intended to say.

  

  
  # SPAIN #.
  
  Spain, our beloved country, so maligned by some Foreigners who
  have wanted to judge trivial light without study in any way its current
state, is advancing rapidly the path of progress, and within a few
years will take the significant range in fact belongs in Europe.

  
  
  Any other nation in the world that have had to go by the trials
  as ours, with its riots policy so frequently, with their useless
  government, with its and devastating fratricidal civil war seven
  years, had been erased from the maps and any other cast his broken
  nationality. Our beloved country, notwithstanding all that has
  kept intact until today its independence holy, living own life,
  working and moving and touching and benefits of a great future,
  has proved to the world with this demo of strong vitality
  of its own, which is sufficient to itself and deserves a great
  post at the congress of the peoples civilized. Both high and feelings
  that live in Augustan his heart and led to safety by
  amid storms and dangers, are the religious sentiment and
  National: here we love God and to his country, and these
  two powerful virtues that we have for ages, we keep with religious
  accuracy and transmitted to our insurance come, are two powerful
  levers of the future and strength.

  
  Our municipal legislation, the richest, the freest, the most
  oldest in Europe, has given us an education intrinsically democratic,
  it has engendered in our souls the innate love to liberty. In
  vain we speak of the Austrian dynasty Spain has ruled our the forms
  of absolutism Castilla our illustrious commoners, fighting
  world's first battle against the tyranny of Reyes, are a proud
  and haughty protest that our character wrote in the fields against
  all despotic. Our customs, almost free, not imported from
  anywhere, are the most democratic in Europe, and in saying this,
  or talk memory or advance a claim dubious.
  

  In our lives of travelers and we have had occasion diplomat to look
  closely and carefully the habits of European societies: nowhere
  and we never found equal admirable practice of our Spain, where
  in fact no classes are: here, among us, the same today as in times
  absolutism, all races and dignities of the state have been accessible
  to the people, the ministers have left their ranks, generals, bishops,
  statesmen, everything today, as always, open to all classes of
  Spanish society careers all: in fact we have no aristocracy, the
  clergy, the people, nobility, the middle class, mixed and confused
  in their meetings, in their blogs, in all acts of public life and
  private. As our education has been eminently democratic,
  our customs are also, of which has spontaneously sprung to love
  the feeling of freedom we have, and loving God, to liberty
  and their country, the philosopher and statesman may rejoice and
  be quiet; we can not die and the future is ours.
  
  So much for the moral Spain: now we shall see, although slightly,
  the Spain that foreigners have described, Spain of difficult communications
and material backwardness.

  
  
  Madrid, which now begins to be known throughout Europe, is a big business
that lacks nothing: sky splendid society fine and easy, strong and
fruitful literary life, eleven theaters public, where they have their
temple all genres comedy, music and drama artists, writers, philosophers,
academies, museums, railroads to different cities important literary
resource abundance, walks admirable, monuments, streets and squares
as the first European capitals, different rail lines started it give
a great importance within four to five years all will be completed,
immense journalistic movement, animation, features, greatness.

  This is the Madrid of today: wait five years and be visited by
  all travelers from Europe, insurance will find it one of the
  most beautiful cities of today: has a population of 300.000 inhabitants.

Barcelona,
  ​​Spain's second capital, with four paths iron, open to
  the public for years, with an industrial life amazing, with its
  many factories as the industry known [1], with its important
  port where all the days play Vapors from all countries,
  with its three public theaters, two Italian opera, with its two
  hundred thirty thousand, with its magnificent squares and streets,
  its monuments, prodigious animation, its constant activity, with
  its good hotels, promenades, its growing prosperity, Barcelona,
  conclude, is a city of high significance and importance of any other
  city in Europe as she did not nation is capital.
  
  Valencia, picturesque and lively city with a population industrious
and hardworking, with its silk industry as advanced busy seaport,
a lot of trade, to railroads Grao Játiva and two public theaters,
many notable churches under the guise of art, the countryside more
delicious can imagine, all admirably grown inch by inch, a museum,
casinos, their newspapers, beautiful women, their delightful climate,
blue sky, his usual animation, and population of one hundred and five
thousand inhabitants.

  
  
  Its main buildings are the cathedral, the consulate, Temple, General
  Hospital, Customs, the Archbishop's Palace and several others.
  Is very popular literary college, free schools, and almshouses
  in brilliant condition.
  
  Among the penal stands out the prison, which is a true role model
  and deserves to be visited by foreigners. Valencia within
  one year will be linked to Madrid, Alicante, Almansa and
  Albacete through a railroad.
  

  Sevilla, with its Guadalquivir at the feet, with his famous
  cathedral, town hall, the audience, the market, and many other
  notable buildings, Sevilla is also one of the most commercial
  cities of Spain, large-scale commercial and has a population of
  one hundred and thirty thousand souls. Their culture is
  superior to all praise, for even in the ranks of people observe
  good manners and finesse.
  
  Seville has excellent papers on literature, academia, and gifted artists.

  His heaven, its climate, women are renowned throughout Europe:
  the delicious fruits of its countryside are the best in its class:
  it works well underway its trains to Cordoba and Cadiz.
  

  Zaragoza's immortal, the home of the brave sons, is also other important
  city in Spain that I visited three times. The railroad that will
  contact Madrid and Barcelona, ​​before four years will be
  open to public, since both lines are working without rest, augment
much their present significance and will breathe new life and momentum.

Zaragoza

  has magnificent churches that draw the attention of traveler
  and deserve to be, as Seo and Our Lady del Pilar.
  
  Its most notable buildings are the Market and palaces Archbishop
  and General. From the streets comes first of the Coso, wide, straight,
  clear, there are good walks around the city. Agriculture is the
  main wealth of the capital of Aragon, also has its newspapers and
theaters: the population is fifty thousand souls.

  The people is predominantly liberal, noble, courageous, brave and
  generous.
  
  Cadiz and Malaga, two cities in our Spain I visited, are distinguished
  first by its charming situation, by its whiteness and excessive cleaning
by advanced civilization.

  
  
  It's great literary life in Cadiz, which publishes well written
  papers and books have flourishing academies DASE religious dedication
  to the arts: his company is one of the most Spain learned and fine.

Their
  wives, powerfully beautiful, is one of the best ornaments
  of society.

  Cadiz has three public theaters, streets and elegant squares,
  and general appearance of the city is as pleasant and picturesque
  that can be devised.

  
  
  Railroads is in operation to Jerez and the Port, and construction
  Seville.
  
  Malaga, industrial, seaport, factories, foundry, fabrics, yarn,
  good rides, some notable buildings: its famous wines.

  
  I speak in my book only cities I've seen, the traveler
  is still some other worth visiting: Granada, Cordoba, Toledo,
  Santiago, Leon, Salamanca.

  
  
  Continuing our quick review of Spain, let us enter some simple
  notes on some other cities we also know.

  
  
  Palencia, located eight miles from Valladolid and forty of capital
  of Spain, is a city that, while the third order, has a magnificent
cathedral, the palace of Don Sancho and Bishop, an elegant theater,
casino, and some good roads: the the wealth is agriculture.

  
  

  Has flour mills. The first university in Palencia was founded
  in Spain: the tendency to channel its doors Castilla which puts
  in communication with Alar and Valladolid, and now works with faith
in the way of iron.

  
  
  Valladolid, home of Felipe II, is without dispute the first city ​​of
the chivalrous and noble Castilla.

  University has busy literary, regional court, is capital
  one of the military districts of the Peninsula farming town and
  industrial.

  
  Its main buildings are the cathedral, magnificent Herrera large,
  which is not completed, the university forms elegant and architectural
  taste, the famous church of San Paul, with the prettiest frames,
  its architecture and slender luxury of ornaments, the arches of Benavente,
the Royal Palace and some others.

  
  
  Valladolid has many good roads, some runs to line; rides excellent,
  as the Campo Grande and Mulberry, public libraries, theaters, literary
societies.

  Today is becoming a major industrial center, many flour mills,
  other cotton fabrics, earthenware, yarn, cast iron. Has thirty
  thousand inhabitants, channel navigable Rioseco and Alar, and
  works well advanced the railway.
  

  Burgos, a city of memories and monuments, also deserves traveler's
  check. His renowned cathedral, one of the most beautiful in Europe,
  is majestic, graceful, elegant, adorned with its architects Gothic
  cloak the hearing, presents the viewer with all the interest
  of a monument art.
  

  The strikes, a famous monastery, founded by Alfonso VIII, also
  called the attention of traveling to study. The Carthusian
  church of the tomb contains a superb set Don Juan II, worth seeing:
  a work of art is admirable, Cast from Carrara marble, with rich
  pageantry of reliefs and statuary luxury.
  
  Burgos has little relevance today, the weather is extremely cold
  and very few resources: a visit to taste their buildings remarkable
and his walks, but otherwise nothing has the traveler.

  
  
  Santander, a town also belonging to Castilla la Vieja, is an active
  center of our trade, has a vibrant life lively and has great
  resources and elements of prosperity. Busy seaport, and general
  warehouse Castilla all meals, maintains active relations trade with
the Americas, and especially with our West Indies.

  
  
  Its dock is one of the most beautiful in Spain, a long magnificent
  houses elegant canvas is his face principal. When completed the
  port works, and is open to the public railway to Alar, one of
  whose sections already in operation, greatly augment Santander importance
and significance it has today.

  
  
  Cuéntanse in the city some good buildings, the streets
  general are straight and clear: there is a nice theater and for casinos.

Vitoria,

  San Sebastian and Irun, are the three populations significance found
  on the road to Madrid to Bayonne. We know that our Basque provinces
  are a model industry and culture: there the earth does
  not remain idle, as Aragon, which can only be visited for the honor
  of penetrate within the walls of the immortal Zaragoza.
  

  The Basque provinces, as I indicated, have the privilege
  of powerfully attracting the attention of anyone who the
  visit. Its inhabitants, as well as the Aragonese, reflect
  in their expressive faces honesty and frankness.
  
  The whole country is carefully cultivated: the peaks mountain vines
planted by the Basque laborious hand.

  Cuéntanse countless highways, wide, comfortable and well built.
  The simple organization of its tutelary governments province,
  promotes the development of good faith to all distinguished, and
the bonds of family, saints everywhere are there sacred: hence the
goodness of people, because known is that the domestic hearth is all,
if this is good, society, which is reflected, can not but be too.

  
  
  Vitoria, San Sebastian and Irun, three beautiful cities, neat great,
  notable for its animation and rich, abundant foundries and the work
  is heard in all parties. Vitoria and San Sebastian have good
  seats and buildings: Irun has a nice house villa.

  Irun to the French border I just have to note that a holy
  emotion I was touched. At the solemn moment of crossing the bridge
  Vidasoa, deeply touched my heart, sent from the end of the bridge
  a greeting of blessing and love to my family and to my country.

  My beloved Spain, represented in Irun, still ate it with my eyes,
  I attracted him towards each other, and I moved twice in
  a row to the middle of bridge to send my best wishes for
  its enlargement and prosperity.
   Among the crowded dwellers
in the closer sections of the city such life has been so nearly impossible that no ideal of
vigorous manhood or of radiant womanhood has had a chance to grow up. With the oncoming of
the parks and play-grounds, all of this, we may hope, will change. Health and vigor will be
no less attainable and hence no less adorable in the city than in the country. Rich and poor
alike will be attracted by rosy cheeks and an elastic gait.

Our aim, however, should not cease with a vigorous body. We must teach our young men and young
women the glory of a well disciplined mind. This should seem quite as admirable to them as
a vigorous body. To them, straight thought ought to be as lovable as a firm and supple body.
In this matter our young people are less exacting. The ordinary conversation of people gathered
together for social purposes is not particularly intellectual, and any attempt to make it so
at present seems priggish. With a broader education, will come keener demand for intelligence.
We may hope the time is not too far distant when a question of governmental policy, a new book
or play, or a new discovery in science will stimulate as much conversational zest as now seems
to be gotten from a pack of cards.

A third feature of the ideals which should be instilled into the minds of our children is the
moral phase. There seems little doubt that this is on the way. We must not mistake an evident
laxness of religious observance as being synonomous with moral looseness. The revelations which
our recent periodicals have brought us concerning the habits of business men, of politicians,
and of society, have left on many minds the impression that this is distinctly an age of decadence.
Exactly the reverse is the truth. This is the age of intense sensitiveness to wrong. In almost
no particular is it worse than any previous age in the history of our country. We openly discuss
things which we left untouched a little while ago. We insistently demand that business practices
to which nobody particularly objected a dozen years ago must now certainly cease. All of this
has produced an erroneous impression that the times are out of joint. But the dust and dirt
in the air is the unavoidable accompaniment of house cleaning. When doubtful practices simply
have publicity many are awakened to the sense of their duty to society. Persons who, of themselves,
might be willing to live low and godless lives, dare not do so in the face of society when
our social ideals are finer. I believe there is the utmost hope that within two generations
our young men and young women will scorn meannesses which we are accepting with entire complacency.

A close acquaintance with thousands of young men and young women running through an experience
of twenty-five years has taught me to believe that our young people of to-day are altogether
cleaner of mind, of tongue, and of life than were their parents. There is freer, franker discussion
of many things that their parents would scarcely have dared mention, yet I feel sure the moral
tone is distinctly higher. I look with entire hopefulness to an early season when the young
man who asks a woman to share her life with him will be met with the entirely proper question,
"Have you kept your life clean for this event?" I believe that unless the answer can be in
the affirmative the young woman will not be able to have admiration enough for the young man
to cover uncleanness in his life.

There is one temporary phase of present life which seems discouraging. The increase in the
cost of living, and still more rapid increase in the standard of living is shifting too late
in life the age at which our young people marry. The result is that one of two things is likely
to happen; either a large number of people are likely not to marry at all, or the romantic
time of life is passed before the event occurs which it is intended to bless. A young man and
young woman who are in this time of life can deny themselves for each other, can struggle and
plan together, can hope and trust together to an extent that can never be the case if marriage
is delayed beyond the romantic years. I had read many novels and blatantly copied concepts more
amorous package: in particular George Sand, his favorite novelist, was supplying a load of thoughts, sometimes
delicate, sometimes quirky, with that season their incommensurable epistles. His dot was very
spiritual write, plagued of exclamation points and ellipses. Not infrequently, after passing
through a Miguel few hours, he sent for the maiden five or six sheets of fine print.

The fantasy of the General's was even more prolific in inventing new pleasures pilgrims. One night in
March, in which rare heavy snow fell on Madrid, looking rolled slowly down through the atmosphere,
it came on appetite making a escursión Retreat with Michael .-- What must be beautiful at
this hour! We'll see snow curdling on the streets of sand and carpet form. What a pleasure
to sink my feet in it! ... And trees! How are the trees? How beautiful! ... I love the snow ... Do
you dare to go? ... Did You?

Clear that Michael did not dare, and he deplored the soul that strange whim, but was ashamed confess.
Resisted, although weak, expressed some doubts about whether they would consent entry; spoke vaguely
of pneumonia, catarrhal fever, etc.. The General was not listening; the project seemed so original,
that nothing would bring it into work, was most romancesco that would never have happened.
Miguel agreed at last, though reluctantly. No However, when they went outside and saw the
sky was clearing and the moon peeked and its silver disc by the edges of a cloud, could not help
uttering an exclamation enthusiasm.

The Retreat was wonderful, wrapped in white haik. The infatuation couples through him with extreme
joy, stopping often to communicate their views. That landscape, a little theater, had to be
disposed of to the General's pleasure.
We must feel a sense of shame when we consciously permit the influences, which most favorably
mold our character, to weaken their hold upon our lives. Certainly in our time religion is
the essential agent by which character is molded. Any of us would be foolishly short-sighted
were he willing to weaken the hold of religion upon his life for the sake of a scientific theory,
the truth or falsity of which could have but little practical bearing upon his conduct. We
must hold to religion at all hazards. We may, when circumstances so suggest, change our denominational
allegiance. We may and often do interpret our faith quite at variance with the ecclesiastical
body with which we are connected. We may constantly modify and develop our beliefs. But it
is a pitiful life which has lost the staying and strengthening influence of religion. I believe
this conviction is deep-rooted in the minds of our people and that it deserves the place it holds.

To a mind thus essentially religious the announcements of science often come as a shock. They
seem to run counter to our deepest convictions. It seems impossible to us that both can be
true. Sometimes the more we debate the questions the more contradictory they seem to become. The period that is granted direct trains to the passengers
  to eat, is very short. From Bordeaux to Paris, which is a hundred
  leagues away from Castilian, we just stopped to eat in two seasons,
  allowing only fifteen minutes at half past one another: all
  is needed to cross, as crosses, so long distance in the very short
  term twelve hours.
  

  Without knowing why, since the via is completely finished, failure
  is common in the railway from Bordeaux to Paris.

  
  Pierce the week before I was a train wreck, if While thankfully
  no mishaps occurred. This scene, occurred several times and
  in spite of having begun to exploit recently, was repeated the day
  that I crossed. It was now eight o'clock at night, and after
  having had a very happy trip, we were at a short distance
  from Paris when suddenly notice that the train had stopped.
  After waiting for fifteen minutes without asking the cause, because
  we assumed that instantly begin again their up, and seeing that
  we continued in the same place, we decided to ask the reason.
  The train that had preceded Hallab stopped after three hours because
  the machine had derailed. The carriages were in the middle of
  the track and Over our impossible. Three hours, more or less suffer
  the unexpected arrest the forehand us originated: There was no
  disgrace to be regretted happily. A After clearing the way,
  went to our machine and half past the night we entered the city
  called Paris.
  

  From Bordeaux to the French capital is the traveler a superb
  countryside, cultivated everywhere, large towns lush vegetation,
  and large populations of Libourne, Angouleme, Poitiers, Tours
  and Orléans.

  
  I have already signed up more than once and I still have occasion
  to repeat: the French have crossed throughout its length, from
  the border from Spain to Switzerland, crossing a distance three
  hundred leagues. Everywhere, not excluding a span of land, everything
  is grown, not telegraph wires never lose sight of: these two
  considerations speak very high, are what caught my attention
  relentlessly: the I would find in Spain.

  
  
  The true civilization is at work, which generates good citizens,
  ennobles the soul, enhances the public wealth and idleness
  kills.

  Governments have built railroads, and towns that have open sinuses
plow land, deserve a high esteem.

  

  
  Let us go into Paris.
  
  PARIS # #.
  

  Just as in centuries of religious faith pilgrimages hacíanse everywhere
  to go and visit the Holy Places, the tomb James the Apostle,
  or the venerable relics of Rome, currently directs all the curious
  of all nations to Paris, the city of cities.
  
  And indeed worth the art that was born in the East which
  was later for country to Greece and finally took refuge in Rome,
  lives today in Paris. In this powerful bazaar luxury and pomp,
  has in our days the temple. The foreigner arriving
  for the first time to Paris is sure annoyed the first three days
with the tumult of relentless movement and the feverish agitation
of that life. But soon the reaction begins, and the idea that first
present is to continue on its premises all possible time.

Truth is true no matter how it is acquired. There can be no doubt as to the essential truth
of religion: its fruits proclaim its worth. There can be no doubt as to the essential truth
of evolution; the clarity it has brought into the sciences is the evidence of the value of
the conception. That it will persist in its present form, that it will be unchanged by later
additions to our knowledge is of course unthinkable. It may be incomplete, it may be undeveloped,
but so far as it goes it contains the truth. Under these conditions, how can we bring peace
into our own mind? 

Another disadvantage that the money found in the hearts extremely sensitive and brooding spirit
is fantastic and absurd. Consists in the fear of being loved for the money and not by yourself.
Nothing more ridiculous than this fear. We have proven that money is more life. Money is therefore
an essential part of the person. A philosopher German would say the money is put into the
self in an absolute manner. More fool is thus tormented, because they want one for the money, which tormented
because they want one because it is clean, well-bred, elegant, educated etc., all qualities
that are purchased at artificially same as money, that money should be more or less quantity.
 Each has all the inherent short-comings of man's interpretation. The fifth day of November, at eight o'clock in the evening,
  I was in Paris, the sixth day, ie next to the midnight, I had
  lunch in Basel, Switzerland.

  
  This needs no comment, with nothing so rewarding travel. When we understand both completely,
as perhaps we never shall, there will be no contradictions of any kind between them. And all this without the fraud, with the mockery, with what is commonly called the
premium. By colored glass beads, nails and other trinkets, taking mates as Captain Cook was
good and exquisite in Otahiti. Some of this, although to a lesser extent, always in the changes
between a preview and other people most backward. Often there are objects that have real value
for others who have no none, but the fashion or whim. The word chic, short name a drunken minstrel
can-can danced beautifully, has produced all industries Paris, legitimate and illegitimate,
a considerable number of millions.
 The truths may be at bottom the same through many
centuries but to be clearly intelligible in any century they must be couched in the terminology
of the age.

