It was three o'clock in the afternoon when suddenly the sound of a heavy carriage drawn by
four horses was heard in the courtyard. Labric barked with all his might, Coco whinnied loudly,
the three cows all mooed at the same time, and the entire poultry-yard in an uproar added its
piercing and varied tones to the general tumult. The pigs especially made a great noise.

It was the American's four-in-hand.

He was driving himself, and on his left sat a young and pretty woman, exquisitely dressed in white.

The newcomers were at once shown into the huge kitchen, which served also as a reception room.
On the hearth burned a small bundle of scented herbs which filled the whole room with fragrance.
Yollande was sitting in her usual place.

"Well, Madame, have you at last decided to let me have the curly-haired hen?"

Mother Etienne neither moved nor answered.

"See here, Madame, I offer you $4,000, $6,000, $8,000," and so saying he took from a red morocco
pocketbook in banknotes the sums he mentioned, and spread them out on the table before the
astonished eyes of Mother Etienne and Germaine.

Mother Etienne still shook her head in refusal.

Germaine, driven wild by this sight, began to exclaim: "Yes, sir,--yes, Madame. Yes, sir,--yes,
Madame," and threw herself into the arms first of the American, and then of Mother Etienne,
who still remained obdurate.

Miss Booum, taking Mother Etienne's hand, said coaxingly: "You can safely trust her to me.
I will take care of her myself, Madame. With us she will become famous throughout the world.
All the newspapers will speak of her. From your poultry-yard she will come into contact with
the greatest courts of the world. She will be petted by Grand Duchesses, and receive hands.
Besides all this she will be in good company and will have plenty to amuse her."

This pleading succeeded in dragging from Mother Etienne the longed-for "Yes," which, though
stifled by emotion, was seized upon by the American.

The good woman had said "Yes," she had conquered the selfishness of a mother for two reasons.
She did not want to prevent Yollande from getting on in the world, and also she wished to let
Germaine share this fortune, for it was owing to her that the hen had become so valuable, and
she did not think it right to deprive her of the benefit.

"That's all settled, then. Here's the contract," said the American, "you have only to sign
it." And a receipt duly prepared was handed to Mother Etienne, who in a trembling hand appended
her signature and a flourish. I don't know that she did not even embellish it with a huge blot
of ink.

Then Miss Booum stooped and gently took under her arm Yollande, who oddly enough made no resistance.

"Oh please, please let me kiss her again," and, tears in her eyes, Mother Etienne tenderly
embraced the Cochin-China.

"You will take great care of Yollande, won't you? You will send me news of her? Where is she
to sleep to-night?"

"Oh, as to that, Madame, would you like to see the place prepared for her? Come with us. There
is room in the carriage and I promise to have you brought back again at once. The camp is not
far from here, the road is good, the horses fast, and in half an hour at most you will be perfectly
reassured and can return with your mind at rest."

Mother Etienne, without further thought, still guided by her tender maternal heart, needed
no urging, but followed by the two Americans, walked with a brisk, firm step towards the carriage.
Suddenly changing her mind, she said:

"Will you just let me change my dress? I can't very well go out like this."

She went to her room, an idea having entered her head, and soon returned very neatly dressed
with a little basket in her hand.

The steps were adjusted and the three people took their places on top, whilst Yollande, wrapped
in soft woollen covers, was carefully placed inside, in a basket provided for that very purpose.

When Germaine saw her mistress start off she would have liked to go with her, but the farm
needed her attention. Besides, Miss Booum's promise of seats for the next performance quite
consoled her.

The carriage made a curve in the yard, went through the gate, and soon disappeared, bearing
the two new travellers. As Miss Booum had said, it did not take more than half an hour to reach
the camp, the cobs went so quickly.

On the way Mother Etienne met many acquaintances to whom she waved a simple but cordial greeting.
In most cases the carriage was already out of sight before they recovered sufficiently from
their astonishment to wave back.

It was a nine days' wonder.

CHAPTER VII

SIR BOOUM'S CIRCUS

Our travellers came in sight of the circus. Imagine, children, a huge encampment like a small
town,--with sections, and streets, houses of green canvas on stout poles, tall caravans on
wheels enclosing everything as though with impassable walls, and in the centre all sorts of
people, in all sorts of costumes, walking up and down.

There were brown men, yellow men, red men, black men, big men, little men, thin men, fat men,
lame men, deformed men, men with goitres, men covered with feathers, men covered with fur,--in
fact, men of every possible kind, size, and land,--men to suit every possible taste.

All the most curious specimens were represented. Besides these there was a colossal menagerie.
In it there were more than twenty elephants, giraffes, hippopotami, rhinoceroses, zebras, dromedaries,
camels, and the rarest kinds of antelopes. Then came the reptiles,--from the boa constrictor,
who was ten yards long, to the smallest blind-worm, amongst them some of the most dangerous
kinds. Crocodiles twenty feet long, monstrous toads, tortoises as big as donkeys. Then there
were the wild beasts too. Lions from Abyssinia, from Atlas, tigers from Bengal, from Persia,
jaguars, panthers, leopards, all the big cat family, lynx, onca, tiger cat. Bears of all kinds,
grizzly, grey, black, and white. Then came wolves, foxes, coyotes, in fact the whole series
of the dog tribe with every possible domestic variety.

In little barred cages was a collection of smaller carnivorous animals and rodents. In a huge
room all the monkeys from the big gorilla to the minute ouistiti or witsit, were installed;
they squabbled, pulled one another's tails, bit one another, uttered piercing cries. There
were constant battles going on in that corner.

Then in an immense aviary were all the birds of creation, divided into classes, from the humming-bird,
the size of a hornet, to the ostrich. This was, to tell the truth, the part that interested
Mother Etienne most of all. She was more used to creatures of this kind, they reminded her
of her beloved poultry-yard. In spite of the signs put up everywhere, "Do not feed the animals,"
the good woman who had purposely filled her basket with cakes threw them in indiscriminately.
There were enough for all the animals she passed. First she threw some to the lions. The lions
took no notice, at which she was most surprised. Her idea in offering the cakes was to see
if the animals were hungry and to find out that way how they were treated.

Miss Booum, who was acting as her guide, was much amused at her astonishment and could not
resist saying:

"Madame, to offer a cream bun to a tiger is like offering a beef-steak to an elephant. Just
keep your cakes for the ostriches, they are so greedy that they will eat stones. If they were
to keep a hardware store they would be certain to eat up their stock."

Pleased at this permission, when she came to the ostriches, Mother Etienne offered them a cake,
but they looked down at it very haughtily and suspiciously. From this she concluded that even
those birds were so well-fed that they were not hungry and felt quite satisfied about Yollande.

After half an hour's walk through the circus, having visited every corner of it, they went
towards the manager's house. There five o'clock tea was served. Mother Etienne, quite at ease,
did honour to the lunch so graciously provided, and after thanking Miss Booum gratefully, she
kissed Yollande very tenderly and prepared to return to the farm.

At a sign from the young American girl, a stout piebald pony, harnessed to a trap, was led
forward by a groom.

"That is my own carriage and my horse Charlie, which you can drive yourself, Madame, if you
like. He is quick and safe, you may be sure of that. You will be at home again in less time
than it took to come here with four horses. Farewell, dear Madame, a pleasant drive. Remember
that we expect you tomorrow for the afternoon performance, and that nice little maid of yours
too. Your seats will be reserved."

The two women shook hands cordially, Mother Etienne got into the carriage, and took the reins.
The pony feeling a hand used to driving, set off at a quick trot, then warming to his work
flew over the ground. He had the paces of a big horse and had to be kept well in hand.

Mother Etienne soon reached home delighted with her adventure. She was assailed by questions
from Germaine and Petit-Jacques. They sat there drinking in her words. Mother Etienne told
them as best she could all that had happened and all that she had seen in the most secret wings
of the gigantic circus. Germaine in her excitement was forgetful enough to let the soup boil
over and the roast burn, but all the same they dined gaily. There were still plenty of questions
to be asked. Mother Etienne had to go over every detail and even to tell some stories over
again. They went on talking far into the night--so charmed were the listeners at the recital.

Nobody thought of going to bed. Germaine was longing for the morrow, she was so anxious to
see for herself this fairyland.

At last, midnight striking, reminded Mother Etienne that it was time for sleep. Then they all
went to bed, each head full of the wonders of tomorrow's performance.

CHAPTER VIII

MOTHER ETIENNE'S DREAM

Mother Etienne was very restless again that night, haunted, not by a dreadful nightmare as
before, but by a troublesome dream. Everything she had just seen at Sir Booum's appeared before
her, the tiniest incidents, the least important details.

All the explanations, concerning the creatures in the menagerie given her by the trainer, came
back to her, like an object lesson in a curious dream.

The principal person in it was Yollande. Yollande as Barnum, Yollande as trainer, Yollande
holding in one hairy wing a stout whip, in the other the pitchfork as a protection against
claws and teeth.

"You see here," said Yollande in a loud voice, "you see here the wild ox from Madagascar, which
takes the place of the horse. In that country he is harnessed to small, light vehicles which
he draws along rapidly. This other is a buffalo from Caffraria. He is a Jack-of-all-trades,
sometimes ridden, sometimes driven, sometimes laden, sometimes yoked to the plough. Those big
striped animals you see yonder are giraffes. Their long necks permit them, without having recourse
to a ladder, to eat the young shoots of the mimosa, of which they are very fond, as well as
the fresh dates which usually grow at the tops of the palm-trees."

In this kind of dream a strange idea was at work in the brain of the sleeper. With these object
lessons were mingled strange, quaint asides.

"If children had long necks like that, one couldn't keep the jam-pots out of their way by putting
them on the top shelves of the cupboard."

"There," went on Yollande, "are the elephants. They are used for all sorts of tasks. Their
trunks, a continuation of their nostrils, serve both for breathing and holding. It is, as it
were, an extremely sensitive and powerful hand."

"Great goodness me," cried Mother Etienne; "imagine having a hand at the end of your nose!
Would it have a glove on it and rings on its fingers?"

All sorts of ridiculous ideas like that came into her head. The little beaver, who builds his
houses all along the Canadian streams, appeared trowel in hand, mortar-board on his head, and
Mother Etienne felt most anxious to have his valuable assistance in repairing her barns and
mills. Dear little marabout, how useful you would be in the village, sweeping the streets,
cleaning up the refuse, advance-guard of the street-cleaner with his, "Now then, everything
into the gutter."

"The antelopes are very silly, coquettish creatures to wear such long boas round their necks
in this warm country. But, after all, perhaps they are wise enough, for they have chosen a
kind which, unlike our make of furs, is cold to the touch."

Yollande, in her rôle of trainer, went on and on like a brook.

"Here, now, is a dromedary. He has a hump on his back, a fatty exerescence which enables him
to bear much fatigue, without eating or drinking for several days. It is owing to this fat,
rather like a box of provisions on his back, that he can traverse hot and sandy deserts where
it would be difficult to find a single blade of grass to eat."

Then through the farm bedroom passed long caravans of camels, led by carnival Arabs, their
humps changed into gigantic larders in which rattled all sorts of canned things. Canned salmon,
Russian caviare, dried biscuits, smoked meats, tongues, sardines, canned peas, foies-gras,
lobsters, and fruits, in fact all those things which Mother Etienne had seen piled up in many-coloured
pyramids at the best grocery stores. Really it was too ridiculous.--Miss Booum must have been
making fun of her visitor.--That couldn't really be the best food for camels.

It was still worse when it came to the turn of the hippopotami. A thousand ill-digested memories
from the illustrated papers were in her mind, all mixed up. Where did the Nile and the Zanzibar
flow? Which was it that separated Egypt from Senegal? And the gigantic hippopotamus, looking
perfectly huge and out-of-place in a gondola fit for a sultana, appeared to her, floating down
the calm stream, a red fez with a golden star on his head, puffing away at a peculiar double-bowled
pipe, the pride of the collection of a retired police-officer in the village, who had it from
the real cousin of a sea-captain from Marseilles.

"Do you see those little lumps there enclosed between four boards? It is a nest of land-tortoises.
The largest, called the Giant tortoise, easily supports on its back a weight of two hundred
pounds. This shell which weighs so heavily is its house. At the least alarm, it retreats into
its house and stays there, till all danger is past." This plan of walking about with your house
on your back seemed rather a good one to Mother Etienne. You could go out on rainy days without
getting wet, and on cold days it would keep your back nice and warm.

"Near at hand is a collection of mammals, the kangaroo family. The kangaroo is the largest
mammal of Australia. It is generally a peace-loving animal, but bites, scratches, and claws
if it is teased. Its best defence however is flight." All these technical details left the
good woman cold. What she remembered best were the practical qualities of the creatures. The
kangaroo has one very great peculiarity, the female has a pouch, a sort of bag, in which she
hides her young if danger appears, just as the soldier has his knapsack.

