WATCH-WORK-WAIT;

or,

THE ORPHAN'S VICTORY.

by SARAH A. MYERS.

"Blessed is the man that trusteth in Him.... They that seek the Lord shall not want any good
thing."--PSALM xxxiv.

London:

T. Nelson and Sons, Paternoster Row; Edinburgh; and New York.

MDCCCLXII.

This little volume contains a simple record of the trials and temptations which a poor orphan
boy passed through a few years since. It teaches that best of lessons,--the need of Divine
help in the battle of life. It shows that a child may attain a beautiful character amid great
trials and great evils.

The author assures us that the incidents in this delightful story are real occurrences. Some
of them are "stranger than fiction;" yet they are not fancies, but facts.

CHAPTER I.

WILLIAM'S FIRST GRIEF.

In one of the many beautiful spots which the traveller sees in making a voyage up the Hudson,
stands the village of M----. It attracts the notice of all tourists, for it seems to occupy
the very place in which a painter or a lover of the picturesque would have chosen to place
it. Its inhabitants love to boast of its antiquity, for it was founded by the original Dutch
settlers, and its present settlers are mostly their descendants.

At the time of which we write, no city fashions had found their way to that remote spot. Its
inhabitants were simple-hearted, pious, and contented to live as their forefathers had done;
and the place seemed like a quiet little world within itself. None of the gross vices always
to be found in large communities were practised there. On the Sabbath-day, when its only bell
sent its voice distinctly over the valley, the humble dwellers met in the single church, not
only bound together by the tie of human brotherhood, but by the sweeter ties of Christian charity,
to hear the word of God and perform the work of prayer and praise.

Just at the end of the long street in this quiet village stood a cottage, which, although very
rudely built, attracted the attention of the passers-by from the extreme neatness and order,
those sure attendants of the pious poor, which reigned around it. In winter it looked snug
beneath its coating of snow; in summer very beautiful, glistening, as it then did, in all its
fragrant adornment of jessamine, honeysuckle, and sweet-brier. It is also very rocky and generally fertile,
mainly on the slopes of the hills near the mountains and the pinks, and yet how little the
natives cultivate the land for planting, collecting abundant crops, particularly of all kinds
of vegetables. Wheat, but not go as far as in Buenos Aires, yet they collect good harvests,
with usually ten to one. The rice grows well, and comes with plenty, the corn as well, and everything
is grown produce well. The same happens with other marketable fruit. Grass trees named the Paraguay,
are kept well in the same villages, and everyone has them some immediate yerbales who have planted
and cultivated, of which benefit every year for its spending, and send to Buenos Aires. These
natural to them is much easier and convenient to residents of Paraguay, yerba mate extract
of large tracts of wild grass, because, well to be not far from the mountains, they bring the
comfort of the rivers. The cotton breeds well and produces in abundance, cane sugar, although
not as general as in Paraguay, in some towns better crop in that province. Cocoa is not Comparison
of better quality that benefits in these villages in Paraguay. Indigo grows very lush, but
so far as is known, because there is no one who benefits. Sweet potatoes and cassava are the
main line for the food of these natives, and in so, how many seeds are thrown to the ground produce
in abundance, so that, if there stimulus to force men to apply to agriculture, would not be wanting
all year in many vegetable gardens are reflected in the other countries at various stations
year. The same goes for fruit, all fruit and fruit are grown well, particularly oranges and lemons,
which grow to an excessive corpulence. The vines are grown well, and give very good grapes, and
other times it has made some wine in the villages that have attempted, particularly in the village
of Cross, which it appears was done fairly and very good at the time of the ex-Jesuits. The livestock
of all species are preserved and multiplied very well, and, finally, by how many sides will look
at these areas will find the most fertile and better proportions to form a province of more
trader, and therefore if not richer, at least the most comfortable of the whole colony.

Paraná immediately in one and another band, near the towns of Candelaria and Santa Ana, there exquisite
copper mines, but even if they worked after the expulsion, were abandoned, because not enough
profits to cover the costs, and although it ensures that there of
mercury and other metals, I have not seen evidence that convinces
me of its existence.

There are also mines in many places far superior crystal, it breeds in the heart flint holes
of various sizes, and grow in my opinion. There are recessed the rocks around the inner circumference
as the grains of a pomegranate, but leaving hollow in the center, to which all end in a point
with various surfaces, so alike that it seems art that have been placed and carved. Some of these
stones are purple, so diaphanous and hard that I have no doubt they are fine amethysts, and it
is believed that, if in the places where are in the earth's surface look within, maybe they would
find some value.

Throughout the province there are quarries of stone buildings, very docile and great styling consistency
to stay. Of these quarries former Jesuits took some columns further four yards long, very solid
and very well surface, in some are Property stones of slate, consisting of several veins that
are very disjointed easily, forming slabs surface as well as style
them is not necessary.

On the porch the church of San Ignacio Mini are three of these slabs, the largest has more than
fifteen long and ten feet wide, and the other two are slightly lower. Another kind of stone
are very rough, but extremely easy to carve, and according to their weight and some signs
of vein it seems iron, and is the most commonly used in the walls of buildings.

The medicinal herbs found are many, the Indians used in their illnesses, giving them names in
their language, but the benefit of their knowledge can not be achieved Meanwhile usefully clever
is not intended to discover their strengths and determine their uses.

Of the items most needed conservation and comfort of men are only two in this province, who are
the salt and lime, the stock must first of Buenos Aires or Paraguay, and the second is supplied
to launder the churches and houses, with snails large charred, that is in the fields in great
abundance, and of them is exquisite cal, but it only reaches to bleach
and no more.

In this province are very few insects that annoy men. Fleas, bedbugs and lice are rare. Hardly see
any mosquitoes in the rooms, although the field there are several species of animals and bother
people.

The only trouble there in the villages is called the shafts, which are insects that are introduced
by the skin on the feet, then take their species increase and multiply prodigiously, but well
as the ease of extracting, in having a little toilet in the rooms are passed many months without
experiencing this inconvenience.

There are also many species of snakes, and some deadly poison, but not as many as they say, and
in villages rarely see any.

In the mountains and fields are bred tigers, leopards, foxes, elk
and ostriches, but they not usually bother the men.

There are also many special birds such as parrots, which there are many species, macaws, toucans
crows and white, the latter are the size of a dove, and long beak has a sesma rod, and two inches
in thickness; is also very abundant wood-pigeons, doves, ducks great and small, and many birds
small grocery.

The climate is so healthy that is just another one that is more, even
to outsiders; Only those who indulge in the vice of incontinence experienced
the ravages of venereal disease that the natives are quite touched,
even if they do not experience strong effects in Spanish, and although
in some seasons, particularly in the fall experienced intermittent
fevers, Chuccho called here, are so little malice if anyone dies for
lack of attendance.

Only smallpox and measles are the cause horrific damage, it is that they come in part from that,
spending many years not experienced these epidemics, they wrestle, as few people live that have
had, and soon the contagion spreads, who is not attending the sick, because fleeing all reported
to them, with not much to die almost all, with wonder some to escape the efforts of nature.
I sympathize with much of the misery suffer in sickness, and though I have tried to provide the
assistance that I have seemed appropriate for relief in all their ailments, I have not been
able to get as I wanted, because the patients are destined to consume the same by whose hand is
supplied, without having sufficient means few orders and I imagined for avoided.

In all this province and I have not seen news is no mad or insane, are rare the lame and flawed and
not experienced many chronic diseases.

This province is composed of people, all so similar to each other than seen are seen one other,
and although you have seen, I send the plane of the Candelaria and Conception so that you can
satisfy the curiosity of others. Their houses are of brick, with the exception of San Cosme
and Jesus, that most are made of straw.

The figure of the buildings or houses of the Indians is that of a barn from 50 to 60 yards
long and 10 wide, including runners who are in shape, are very low,
and each barn is divided into 8 or 10 divisions.

The churches are quite sumptuous and large, but irregular architecture and short-lived as corruptible
of the materials that are made of wood. The ornaments, sacred vessels, jewelry silver and gold that
are served, so many, and so precious few who can compete with the best cathedrals in America.
The main house, commonly referred to schools are very capable and comfortable, regularly located in
places of delicious view.

These are natural medium height and layout, the color is rather pale brown, particularly women,
which, notwithstanding all walking barefoot and almost naked, and be ordinarily girls occupied
for agricultural work, such as tents and other, admiring the small and well-formed feet and hands,
and readiness of their bodies. Are all regular skill and understanding as they apply; comprise
more by sight than by ear, any thing that puts them ahead, quite
perfectly imitate; but, more to be told what they see, do not succeed
with it.

They are so humble and obedient particularly the Spanish, which recognize superior, obeying blindly and
without consideration as they're told. Sloths are commonly taken on the grounds that it should compel
them to work rigorously not only for what is community, but also for what is proper to them.
They are also taken by skilled thieves, and in fact, less noticed this defect is not seeking
an opportunity, because that is presented not lost.

It's big tilt with the Indians to know, so that whenever they are given opportunity to instruct the advantage.
Everything that the Spanish are seeking execute imitate, and are intent in their ears when
the language is referred to some points of history, or they make some special relationship in
Europe, by referring them to each other with pleasure and admiration. But the pity is that they
have closed their doors to any instruction; they do not understand our language, and theirs
no one to give them notice of anything, but only of the most accurate of religion, they have
no books to learn, or anything looking, it is imperative that your
imagination is perpetually in inaction, and therefore live enveloped
in the darkness of ignorance.

It is also great in them the inclination to try and recruit continuously, changing a other things,
but having no knowledge of the true value of them, by chance verified treated equally, and
it happens very often the fool some of the Spanish few obligations to deal with them secretly,
without government or administrators can help it, because, though often makes them see the deception
they have suffered, there is no way to persuade them not to buy or sell for themselves, taking
on the decline The considered incapable of buying and selling. But some in the party have also
taken advantage others, it is not easy to be fooled, they know very
well give the estimate to possessions.

All of them are inclined to rule and long for any negligible employment and occupation that is,
and seeks to play as long as it lasts, and show plenty of emotion when out of time and for some reason
they have given, they are deprived of employment, holding it ebb and dishonor also feel insulting
words, and being in disgrace from which the commandments, so that in committing a sin, even
if the boys want then whipped, and not abuse them in words, to return to the grace of their superiors.
Is these circumstances to employ significant and persuasive eloquence, and take little that
lacks this privilege, but have other desirable, is far from shameful
pride and punctilious, but lack of education and ideas know no right
use of these virtues.

They are not used in trades dishonor the vile, even those just finding employment more honorifics,
they do not know or distinguish the noble from the one nor the ruin of the other. Nor is dishonor
which flogged every day, it is that, if this comes out, also very rare which is not considered
dishonorable. Incontinence in women, unmarried as married, viewed with indifference, even husbands
stop them little consideration in that, and so women are given the appetite of men, particularly
if they are Spanish or Mandarin, with little reluctance and blind obedience, such is the disposition
of his mind to obey all those who consider themselves superior. These natives are inclined,
like all Indians, the intoxication, but not practice, because they have no proportions for this, and
because it punishes who is drunk, if any falls into this habit is because of some inconsiderate Spanish,
for gifts that give them drink. They are also very fond of music, whose period apply without being
compelled, and so in every town there are plenty of musicians drums and all are very loud instrument
of your choice, and so accompany them for everything. No task not intended to three or four drums
that are touching each other so much work, and known faint when they play them while fishing. They
are very patient in all the work, just hear them complain, even when rigorously the strike,
not when are injured by some oversight of a big hit in the mills or tasks. The same is true in their
diseases, acute and intense pain may be your only because they are known they say when asked,
or because the nature of evil are inseparable some signs of feeling, but they suffer from
a constancy and serenity that he admires. I I spent much time visiting the sick, and during these
visits, and at times accompanied the Blessed Sacrament when given for travel, I've never seen a single
patient or restless; always fixed in the hammock or cot on a leather bed that is regularly
appear dead, according to the stillness that remains, only know they are alive by the movement
eyes, or what they respond when asked, they stay until they die or heal.

At home are treated with great indecency and filth; regularly go naked parents and mothers before
the children even as adults, and these same before his parents, and not as only a family but
also other living within a single room, they are likely to live long together. This seems to
do because it found a convenience, with one stove for simmering the food, heat and lighting,
and even join their meats and eat together, and as all this is done within housing in attending,
have it so filthy, black, full of smoke and stench, which is repugnant to enter them, and contributes
greatly to their filth and despair.

The Indians treated their wives regularly, and have as much below them, and require all kinds of work
as well in their fields in tillage and weeding, and in its yarn houses and bring them everything
they need for food and arrange it, apologizing As they are working
and carrying the women, which not infrequently abuse inhumanely, supposing
it is lawful and can do, and it is rare that the woman complains,
even knowing that justice punishes those who behave well.

Parents care little or nothing about the education of children, or their food and clothes, because
everything has to care for the community, who employs his pleasure where and under I think, since
they are able to do something, nor yearn for purchasing goods leave their children, have no
idea what is heredity, or even the current ownership of things because the custom of removing them,
and leave others to see them go to where the common destinations makes them look at them with
indifference and leave them without regret.

Resist with remarkable consistency work and hunger, often passing the whole day working, without
having had breakfast and without showing weakness, but you admire what they eat when they have
it. The dress regular in women is a kind of cotton canvas bag, which they call tipoy without
sleeves and neck, but only a few stitches on one of their mouths that fit the body; others
are in the same way a long shirt to a dawn that is more decent, though and this is much improved.

These
are very loving nature to the King, and very obedient to all that
are commanded in real name, in the commune councils and explained
how to persuade others to do what to tell you that it is commanded
by God and King.

When one comes to ask any grace or justice, its introduction is: "God and the King has commanded
for us as amparéis the poor wretches who we are, and so on his real name I pray, etc.. " And so
are explained in all its arguments, always bringing together of God and King.

Similarly the Spanish love and live well convinced that the need to have what them, thinking that
if the homeless would perish, and marvel that we leave our homes, relatives and friends just to come
(as they say) to do the will of God and King for their benefit.

These people, from its reduction, have been maintained and kept in community, and although this
method of government would serve the principles, then it has served, in my opinion, but to impede
the progress of police and civilians, that would remain the same, in the meantime government does
not move, giving freely to the Indians as nature dictates.

But before attempting this will be good to give you an idea of ​​what this community was time
that the Jesuits established, and what is at present since his expulsion, with the precise
consequences that follow from it.
 Very simple
indeed was their manner of living now; but she knew no want, for having gained the respect
and confidence of the community in her prosperous days, she was supplied with work almost constantly.

The winter was long and severe, and dark and dreary were many of its hours to the widow. As
the season advanced toward the spring, her heart was illuminated by occasional gleams of light
sent forth, not only by hope's smiling in the distance, but from the sustaining influence lent
her by the hopeful spirit, ready obedience, and untiring industry of her boy.

It is astonishing what a sudden change such a blow of misfortune often produces in a child.
We know not the mysterious workings of a child's mind, or by what process such a rapid change
is accomplished; but we know from experience that the journey of a very few years in the path
of life can make even the very young sensible that this world is not one of unmixed happiness,
and that there is often but a step from careless childhood to a painful maturity,--painful
because unnatural.

Such was the case with poor Will Raymond; and new comfort dawned on the widow's heart as she
remarked his untiring efforts, not only to cheer her, but to aid, by such labour as he was
able to perform, in their mutual maintenance. With a maturity of judgment hardly to be expected
in one of his age, he entered not only into all her plans, but, during the spring and summer
succeeding his father's death, went regularly to some kind of work, by which he gained wages,
small indeed, but which, added to the general stock, would help to provide against the severities
of the coming winter. There are always some kind hearts to be found in every community, who
are willing to comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, and encourage all virtuous effort,
although the service rendered be but trifling. A kind-hearted farmer, hearing of the little
boy's exertions to aid his mother, employed him to wait on his reapers during harvest; and
as the time of fruit-gathering and hop-picking in the autumn furnished plenty of such work
as he was able to do, all his time was, as one might say, filled up. And when he brought home
the hard-earned money, the fruit of his toils, and marked the lighting of his mother's eye
as he poured his little treasures into her lap, child as he was, he felt there was a sweetness
in the gains of labour which no gifts can bestow; and William and his mother were not the only
ones to remark that bread earned by honest toil is sweeter than any other.

There was another, besides the farmer, whose heart turned warmly toward the fatherless boy.
Old Nicholas Herman, the baker, was too truly benevolent to forget his late tenant, and although
not a rich man, he had often something to send to the widow. He had learned the beautiful precept:
"Give bread to the hungry, and from the needy turn not away;" and was a true believer in Him
who said, "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these, ye do it unto me."

Kept busy and from home throughout the day, the mother waited anxiously for the twilight hour,
for then William would return, and great was the joy of her heart when, with bounding step
and cheerful face, he entered the house. The night might be dark and stormy, but his presence
always made her sun-light; and the tempest might beat upon her lowly dwelling, threatening
its destruction, yet she heeded it not, for her earthly treasure was beside her. Although much
enfeebled by grief, she spent no idle moments, but sewed, knit, or spun. William, child as
he was, did not fail to note the faded look, and exerted himself not only to assist her in
her household duties, but learned to knit; for he thought no occupation, however feminine,
disparaging to his boyhood, if by it he could only lessen her labours.

These hours were spent with double profit, for she taught him while she worked, and light from
her window was seen to glimmer long after most of the dwellers in her neighbourhood had gone
to rest. She taught him the ordinary branches of school learning, which she well understood;
but she was much more careful to impress upon his mind the more important precepts of the gospel,
that only true chart by which, man can steer through life safely, and which wisdom, she told
him, was of more value than gold. She grieved not that his face was imbrowned, or his hands
hardened by labour: toil is man's natural inheritance, and he is bid to rejoice in his "labour,
for it is the gift of God;" but she rejoiced in the maturing of his heart, and saw that the
good seed she was sowing was taking root.

She had, however, one trouble concerning him, and not being able to discern clearly what was
her duty, it gave her more anxiety than even her poverty. His love for sketching could not
be repressed. She saw that he shared his father's talent largely, but remembering what her
husband's views in reference to the cultivation of the noble art of painting had been, the
struggle between maternal pride and the natural yearnings of a mother's heart to gratify a
darling and worthy child, in opposition to what seeming duty demanded, can scarcely be imagined.
Her late husband's opinions, tempered as they always were by judgment and prudence, had acquired
a character of sacredness in her view; but when William, in showing her his sums, showed also
the rude but spirited sketches he had drawn on the border of his slate, she saw that the gift
was from God, and she could not condemn, although she dared not praise. She was afraid of entailing
misery on him by fostering a taste beyond what his means would permit him to gratify. He had
no present prospect but that of earning his bread by the sorest labour. Even if his talent
were an extraordinary one, it would take a long time to cultivate it to a profitable point;
and in the meantime, how was he to be supported?

She told all this to her son; but when he begged her, as his only recreation (for he never
played with any boys except George Herman, as good a boy as himself), to let him look over
his father's portfolio of sketches, could she deny the favour? or was she wrong? Nor could
she forbid some pen-and-ink sketches, in which she recognised familiar objects, although she
warned him against giving offence by caricaturing; and while she described to him the wonders
of this glorious earth, with its embosomed treasures of mines and minerals, and made him read
in his Bible how God had created all and called it good, she also showed him that man was the
crowning work;--beloved of God, notwithstanding his rebellion; made only a little lower than
the angels, crowned with dignity and honour; and so loved by the Saviour, that he came to save
those who otherwise would have been lost; and still bearing much of the original impress in
which he was created. She explained to him how wrong it is to make game of the peculiarities
of any human being, ridicule his infirmities, or win a reputation by exhibiting his defects;
bidding him always, at the close of her lecture, to read the sermon delivered on the mount,
and to walk by its rule, and he would not fail to do right.

There were times, however, when the mother's heart would almost overcome this resolve. In her
lonely hours fancy would portray her son's future; and when does maternal hope discover aught
but a glorious one? She thought of what he might be, could he go abroad to study the works
of the old masters; how, with his genius (for she knew not that taste was often mistaken for
genius) and persevering industry, her boy might yet win a high place in the world, as many
others as poor as he had done. But she was too sensible to let her thoughts dwell long on this
flattering subject, and resolved to do what she considered right as present duty, committing
the issue to God, in whom she so implicitly trusted.

Christmas-day came round again, and it was a mournful one in the home of the widow and fatherless.
Margaret had changed much during the year: her face was deathly pale, silver lines showed themselves
among her dark hair, and her usually placid and subdued expression was exchanged for a look
of pain. A harassing cough troubled her by day and prevented her resting at night; an accompanying
weakness created some little anxiety as to what its issue might be; but, with the hoping spirit
which is ever attendant on that insidious disease called consumption, she believed that the
coming spring would restore her.

It came with its wealth of sunshine, and renovated the earth to promise of fruitfulness and
beauty,--beautiful type of the resurrection, when man shall rise to glorious immortality. All
nature rejoiced in its presence; the flowers came forth and filled the air with healthful odours;
the birds warbled as they built their nests; the merry children rejoiced as they played on
the green, and exulted in the liberty the vernal season bestowed. But to the widow spring brought
no renewal of health; and now, finding herself unable to wash, she consulted a physician, who
told her it was too late; the disease had made large progress, and she could not live through
the year!

Such an announcement would startle most persons. Death is so repugnant to man's nature, that
there are but few who do not shrink from the dread encounter. Poor Margaret had more to fear
than this. She dreaded not only the misery and poverty her tedious illness would entail upon
them, but she wept the bitterest tears when she thought of her orphan child, poor, alone, and
uncared for, when she should be taken away. She was, however, too sincere a believer to remain
long within the shadow of the cloud. The God in whom she had ever trusted was ever faithful
to his own word. Had he not promised, "Leave thy fatherless children to me, I will preserve
them alive?" and is not his favour better than life! And when she prayed, "Father, if it be
possible, let this cup pass from me," like Him whose true servant she was, she also added,
"nevertheless, not my will be done, but thine." When does the Christian fail to receive comfort,
when the child-like submission inculcated in the gospel is exercised? Is not the chastening
rod in the hand of a Father who wounds but to heal? and he, who sees the end from the beginning,
nevertheless afflicts his children. Margaret Raymond was therefore able to give up all into
the unerring hand, knowing that He who feeds the raven and clothes the lily would not forsake
her orphan child, but lead him, it might be by a narrow and rugged path--but such is the way
that leads to the strait gate, and all who find eternal life must tread it.

CHAPTER III.

AN ORPHAN INDEED.

The spring advanced into summer, and on one of its calm and bright evenings, Margaret, exerting
her little strength, took William to the grave-yard, and both seated themselves on the little
green hillock beneath which George Raymond awaited in peace the resurrection from the dust.
No costly monuments nor storied urns were in that simple grave-yard. Some plain marble tablets
marked the resting-places of the dead; but there were memorials of deeper meaning and more
lovely. Trees waved their branches protectingly over the little mounds; kind hands had planted
them with flowers and kept them sacred. Thus it was a pleasant spot, and full of hallowed remembrances.
Margaret had never spoken of her coming death to her son; but now, seated on the spot of earth
which must ere long be opened to afford a resting-place for herself, she told him that soon,
in a few weeks most likely, he would be an orphan indeed, alone in the world, and with no friend
but God.

How can the sorrow and astonishment of the poor boy be described? Motherless and fatherless!
what a deep and painful impression did the words of that truly pious mother make upon him!
He had dearly loved his father, but the exertion he had at once made to help to support his
mother had prevented his viewing that great loss in all its magnitude; but now, to lose her
on whom, since his father's death, he had hung his whole heart, was an idea so terrible that
he could scarcely comprehend it.

"Mother," he exclaimed, as he threw his arms around her and sobbed wildly, "you will not die!
surely you will not! I cannot live without you; I shall have no home,--nobody to love when
you are gone."

Poor Margaret, controlling her own emotion, tried to comfort her weeping child, and at last
succeeded; for strength from above was given to her heart, and words to her tongue. She spoke
so convincingly of God's wisdom, and goodness, and righteous dealing in all things, that the
boy's grief abated, his eye once more lighted up, and peace returned to his heart. The assurance
that God, the Father of all, who never forsakes the creature he has made, would be to him more
than parents could, came plainly upon his soul, and filled it with trust.

"You will not be alone, my poor child," said Margaret; "God will be with you. He has work yet
for you to perform. See that you do all that he has commanded, and in a proper spirit, and
you cannot fail to be blessed--not, perhaps, with earthly prosperity, but with that better
portion, peace of mind, a good conscience, and the hope which maketh not ashamed, whose end
is eternal life. Never neglect your Bible or the duty of prayer; avoid all bad company; keep
your heart pure; and God will be with you, to bless and protect you."

As if endued with strength to utter a last solemn admonition, she told him of the evil nature
and power of sin, how it separated man from his Maker; of the temptations to be met with in
the world, from the deceitfulness and weakness of the human heart, and the example of the ungodly,
with whom she begged him to have no communion. She spoke of the necessity there was for constant
watchfulness and prayer; told him to avoid all exhibition of self-will or disobedience; but
above all to shun falsehood, that most ruinous of all vices, since it is the first step on
the way which leads to eternal death. She bade him remember how the Scriptures teach, "Keep
thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life;" and that it is ever open
to the scrutiny of the All-Seeing Eye.

William listened attentively to her teaching, and it took deep root in his soul. Was he to
endure the trial of temptation? or would it perish, like the seed sown by the wayside?

There were no near relatives of the family, to whose care Margaret could think of consigning
her child. A distant cousin or uncle by marriage, who kept a shoe store in New York, and who
had visited them sometimes, was said to be rich, and she thought that if he would undertake
the guardianship of the boy, and keep him in his family for some years, he might at last be
promoted to the rank of clerk. She therefore wrote to him, and as a satisfactory answer was
soon returned, the arrangement was settled, the good baker promising either to take the boy
to New York himself or send him with an acquaintance.

And now she felt more at ease. She had made this plan, as she judged, for the best; the rest
she left to the never-failing Wisdom to order, as was right.

A few days after her walk to the church-yard she was confined to her bed, from which she never
arose. The pastor visited her daily, and as William never left her for a moment, he was always
present at their spiritual conversations. Oh, how powerful was the impression he received;
how it operated, not only on his present, but future life; and how often afterward did he thank
his heavenly Father that he had been thus early and spiritually taught!

William was very young; but we know that children at a very early period are able to comprehend
the most important truths of God's word; and the sanctifying blessing accompanying, they are,
like Timothy, made wise unto salvation. Do not be afraid to say that, properly fear,
the disturbance which is not silent day or night, but it's true that at this time would accompanied
me more than I see on the solitude in which I am. Soledad say, because to be all things to these
places at the point where it always was, and being this good people what they always were for
me now is that I have lust for something that gets me deeper than this, through what it is
and know where to walk. Yeah, man, yes you of knowing you that all the law I had my children,
and mother and your father and mine, and that for many years has been as if asleep in the
depths of the heart, I was awakened suddenly, aged in his hunger priming the only meat from our
own you know: you, so you know at once. Because your sister, the distance is from us, is for
the case as if no longer alive, and I do not want to breed our two sobrinazos seconds mine, by
my mother, two degustation bigardones bad and worse to live. Not long ago down from his people asking
me "something", at this hour and in such terms that I had to give the "God you for protection"
with the shotgun lying in the face. First and only time I've seen.

"For good and for a finishing touch to the way that I bring and I'm tired: I think if we encourage
you and give me the gift of your company in this house, the cry of the earth, I would be more bearable.
There is nothing more to do tempt among these solitary crags, you who are seasoned the buttocks
and gifts of the court, but to everything men do when they insist on it, without also relevant
here is its sun, and although it is true that it takes a little in the morning in transposing
the peaks that surround the place, and lights up once warms and gladdens the soul like the
sun more friendly of any party. In addition, your exile could not last long for reasons that
I know, and last settlement, to leave it in could not resist as he was finishing the story for
you.

'Item more: I have certain plans in the Magin, they give me much to do. What man walks free
them for me? I have no heirs and no longer have at home something to throw losing my own membership,
something that will go God knows where, if my last and rearward no mole at sight with a being
that makes me a little tingling in interlinings of the heart.

"Of course, I do not try to turn on your lust with these hints.

A large part go! But all is well and have stipulated this in hours that have begun run to me.

"Well,
man, come on come over here, and if you can not do it for fun, do
it for charity of God.

"

Least the 'slump' and its consequences, all that my uncle told me this letter to me I was well
known, and knew also, what is easily deduced from its earlier low correspondence with us and how little
I had told my father, who was his brother Celso a folksy man of few lyrics and excellent heart,
acute and somewhat cunning Magin, as a good mountaineer, and more careful cultivation and prosperity
of their land and livestock, which the promotion of their affection for the family she had
left; sloppiness that sometimes played in an indifference seemed bordering the absolute oblivion.
Unless I knew my uncle in his native land and of our solar house, not so much because of my
lack of curiosity about such matters as by the work of one of the most salient weakness of my
father. He further called attention surnames personal conditions of "our", and thus to ask for
life and times of any of them, rather than straight answer to the question, perched at the
top of the family tree, and crawled from branch to branch to down, not stop to give the least,
with the leg of the Cid, if it is satisfied with that. Their parents could only take in clean,
at different times asked news on them, which had been the junction of the house "only" of the Ruiz
de Bejos of Tablanca, with those of Gómez de Pomar, the most illustrious of the promise. Few
flow, yes, by mainly the latter, that is, by my paternal grandmother, who only brought into
the marriage a few necklaces and earrings of coral, two silver reliquaries a splinter of the
True Cross, and a bone of St. Felicitas, respectively, three sets of linen, linen tablecloths
home two, a gold chain from Cordoba, the prom dress with his marriage, and another half for
everyday use. On my grandfather was a thing very different. Our house Tablanca exercised throughout
the valley, by virtue of their status amen of noble charity, certain undeniable and patriarchal
dominion, and was forced whereabouts of all the notable people who passed by, even bishops. Just
as remember my father had stayed two in it: the de Santander and Leon. For these and other necessities
like chests and cabinets were in good supply of linens and table linens higher abundant solid
silver table and up to two damask bedspreads and a crucifix ivory and ebony. Nothing was there
that must not be missing from the house of a family like ours. But its situation, its form,
its extent, its comforts, or short, at most, which was great, with sunny, coat of arms and
ancillary. Ground it was located and its outskirts, the conditions and appearance of landscape,
climate, of its resources for life more than animal, the customs of its inhabitants, was idle inquire
anything by reports that good sir, that be so paid out of race and put on the horns of the moon
the arms of his house and the land they had born only once and very quickly returned to it
after having left it, though rule of necessity, as a boy yet. Went back to the top of all that
had heard and read about this empingorotada region of the Cantabrian Mountains, and was to
see how they are there, primarily with the Celts, our putative progenitors, and took down then
from there to become embroiled hand in hand and as one fan and regular fair price and current
family issues, with those tribes untamed, with that fierce Spaniard passed the Alps with Hannibal
against Rome fought and defeated Scipio in Ticino. After talking Augustus and his legions who
have come to Cantabria expressly to subject the Roman yoke; that that was our thrust, that
"our" value and that "our" attachment to independence, that Caesar had six years to succeed in
an endeavor that had seemed to work a few days of the horrors of this barbarous war between inaccessible
crags and deep and dark ravines where the water roared inks in the blood of "our" and hardened
legionnaires. No missing as of mothers during the war killed their little ones to not see them
slaves to foreign winners, nor the death of so many cross martyrs singing hymns of freedom from
curses to the conqueror, and with all this, a number of details about the type and the mores of
his heroes, details that I had wanted on the land they inhabit, as it was in my days. Far from
it, leaving only Cantabrians to mix his successors in the epic of Covadonga or the trouble of "Bands"
of Castile, and you put here with dithyrambs their illustrious "ancestors", ran with them the
five parts of the world to not know where he was, nor I either. Because on these matters my
father was a generous scholarship, but somewhat suspicious, work a greed that came with the truth
as with the fantastic, by clinging tenaciously, but purely platonic, things of earth.

In this way I knew it, upon receiving the letter from my uncle, little more is known, by guesswork
or by comparison, other fellows who have been "passing" and very quickly.

Meanwhile I had already served thirty-two years for six who was a doctor in both rights, albeit
unknowingly, by disuse of them, what they were for those things more
than seven that field for my respect, and gave me the high life with
the flow that I inherited from my father.

Because my mother did not inherit a penny. Granada was a very pretty daughter of a judge Hearing
of that land. He met my father walked over there a while, busy mining
business, and married her in the overnight.

The judge was a widower and poor, and died two years after the wedding of his daughter.

I owe to God, among other grants, the temperament of a uniquely balanced moods, which allowed
me to go through the most dangerous hardships of life, while including the lower strip of skin. Very
few things have touched my soul, and I seldom I have a passion for the best of them. This has
been my greatest fortune in the midst of freedom and abundance in which I lived, being pampered
and spoiled child, while I was' son of the family " rich and detached
from all constraints when it has no father and mother and declared
myself "boy open house.

" Under these conditions and a passionate temperament, God knows what had been of me and my
money. Still, not increase the legacy of my father, and even drop him a good chop, because not
all the time ran the same for the vile farthing; and I, though without losing sight of how useful
it is this ingredient to live at home with the men, there was born to a slave to him and had
entrenched interests that were not cheap. I liked traveling, and traveled extensively in and outside
Spain, I liked the so-called "big world" or 'high society', and frequented its halls, theaters,
field trips and even fashionable resorts, and sports, I like the Fine Arts, although considered
mainly as a luxury item, and buy paintings and sculptures in the exhibition; I liked certain
men of politics and literature, not by politicians or by literati precisely, but the resonance
of their names and the attractiveness of their conversations and frequented his treatment and
accompanied him in his circle and their feasts and gatherings in and revelry ... I even liked the
bullfighters at a distance, and distance grew the friendship of some of them.

All this, and as much more than it follows the law enforced at the end of the day was wear
expensive and produce deep, if not hide, at least moral sensitivity, even though it is a boy
like me, who aspired to be no box set of the first term, or half-inch lift on the common size of
the mass of spectators, and this, not virtue, but by the exigencies of my temperament.

It is very noteworthy that in the hobby more pronounced of all mine, the travel, seduced me much artifice
of men that the work of Nature.

As good Madrid, loved to Madrid over all earthly things, and after Madrid, similar to Spain and
abroad, the largest and liveliest capitals of the civilized world. What remained among those,
I did not care, and passed on it, to go wherever he went, as insensitive projectile that has given
whereabouts from their point of origin. Son and resident of land plain, mountains and sky saddened
me fuzzy fearfulness me.

Once one had been in the mountain capital, masking a desire to tread "the land of my ancestors" my
father would say, the temptation to spend the summer at the port began to be "elegant." Rail crossing
near the Cantabrian Mountains above the sources of the Ebro, recalled that "there" did not
know whether the right or left, had to walk my ancestral home, in a withdrawal of those mountains
mists and tight hooded black oak. And then had more resonance in my heart this much-vaunted "cry blood."
Days later, and from one of the heights overlooking the city, Santander, practical So I named, pointing
with his finger, every peak and every mountain of the great mountain range that begins at
the East Cape and Galizano Quintres (the tail of the huge reptile), and ends at West poking through
the clouds the Picos de Europa (his head).

Then, by drawing in the air with the same finger during each river of her birth in and the bottom of
his black cliffs tumble, arrived addressed to the West, and marking three stripes almost vertical,
I named the Sakha, the Nansa and Deva, and there I stopped him with thought, telling me himself,
"Along with one of the three rivers (I think the Nansa) plus above or below, must walk the site
of my elders. "And this just fell for the second time, "the cry of blood" who had in his veins. As
decoration, that I fell in love string of jagged mountains from east to west on the south
serve as grandiose setting the wonderful bay, but as habitable land!

...

Such were, peak, peak less, my personal background when I got the letter in which Celso my uncle
called me to his side, indefinitely, from the depths and Mountaineer of the Cantabrian region,
and yet, no embassy gave me unpleasant impression as might be assumed to take exactly what was said
about my way of being and feeling.

Apart from what interested me the physical and moral of my uncle,
I was not so in love My way of life, scares me the risks of radical
upheaval for some time.

Without feeling "tired" of living as he lived, because there was no drop at ride so calm and
relatively orderly as he had used me to get where he come by so many dangerous roads, began to
notice at the time certain languor spirit, inappetence certain moral certainly were not at
odds with a break homes, and much less an exchange of views and "food".

On this side, the letter My uncle could not be more timely than it was in my hands. The serious,
unexpected terrible thing for me was on the other hand, the quality of what I called it. Resolved
to change their lives for some time, God knows what paths I had taken, but certainly to me that
never would have chosen that my uncle wanted and I intended. Get there to make a visit, stop
by long, even to know view the site of my grandparents, thank goodness, but to settle it;
make the lives of the beasts among crags and brambles; acclimated she suddenly ran into the
station (rather than mid autumn), the threshold of winter Why should he see Tablanca! Water newcomer
I-Hi Paris and halfway around the world "Distinguished", with suitcases packed with 'new', both
in carrying clothes; reinstated in my "comfortable" single house ... Come on, was the height
of the impossible dream even trocar in all that and so suddenly I was offered from Tablanca.

But I could not tell my uncle these things that would hurt a lot in the situation of mind in
which he found himself, he entertained his urgent request dispatching evasive polite, claiming that
he had business, and targeting "see" without the slightest intention of comply.

Ente Thus, the vision, my way, Tablanca's house, with its mountains and wild animals and their people
and their wintry desolation, not a moment away from my eyes, because the pleadings my uncle,
more alive, came to touch me deep inside, and what might happen,
felt the need to put the case in question, which is as good as the
rules experience, as you start to compromise.

The truth is that one day, I received the second to last letter from my uncle, I very comovió
deeply, say in the matter of looking within myself why I be so insensitive
to agreed charms of nature.

Are you missing that string in my body had either not had put in hand to vibrate? For there
to find out, because it began to mortify the fear of not having it. Additionally, or is one man,
or it is not, or has or does not have guts humanity, guts to go where you go and do what others
do, or serves or served for something more useful and more juice and enjoyment to tread rugs
salons, kidney fat a Jewish innkeepers, tailors and shoemakers in
fashion shows to attend, devouring distances crammed into cages rail
docks, and spending, in short, time and money on trifles in vain and
frivolous slut.

On track the discourse on this path, I feel a force of spirit, a virility unknown to me my
love soliviantóse own good healthy boy of soul and body, and taking advantage fever, fearing that if it
was temporary, it will take my ardor to disappear I wrote to my uncle saying "here I come" and
even by attaching the date of my departure from Madrid. Among I would therefore my travel arrangements,
and I answer he gave me the necessary instructions to get home from the last railroad station.

As
I walked busy making abundant supply of warm clothing, sturdy footwear, weapons offensive and defensive
Aimard books of Töpffer and few, including Chateaubriand, have pleasant things written about mountains,
forests and wild, as if projected a tour of the center of a remote
unexplored continent, I can not answer that Missed me fever.

Less secure it when I tried to "lift" my house. Seemed that this amounted to burn my ships,
or at least to me and had consented to by to be very long my stay among the bears of Cantabria, and
the fear of this risk I leaned to leave these things as they were on good friends in Madrid that
they would look for them. At any rate, nothing is easier than solving the contrary from there,
if you ask the circumstances.

Finally, fearing that this remnant of my weaknesses is I would still brewing other air cooler
and enervating, closed the doors of all reflection speech contrary to the agreement, and boasts
Alea est, I thought, like Caesar, resolved to pass all costs for my Rubicon.

II

And the company rushed on the agreed date, one day in late October, cold and misty in the heights
of the Roman "Juliobriga." In the classic villa immediate end of my journey first and only
possible by train, I stopped half an hour away: the purely essential members to stretch and comfort
the stomach, because there was no time to lose according to the opinion
of the footman who was waiting for me at that point from the previous
day with two nag land, and chaparretes espelurciados, one to drive
me and one for bear my luggage.

Launched all well run and mid-morning, before the footman carrying
the spur the horse that was barely visible beneath the heap of my
bags and wrappers, without leaving the center of the town by a bridge
crossed the Ebro old newborn and rather short stretch down there and
after a short lie down, it was on that side as suburban population
we left back, Vimon free field, if free can which is encircled called
barriers.

From the summits of the highest fell off wisps of fog that enveloped
them, and mimicked left to dry wet fleeces in tips of the rocks and
the thickness of those secular and almost inaccessible trees, with
the mountain air blowing constantly, and so fresh, that forced me
to lift up the ears, the neck of my new raincoat.

Continuing our journey faced west, we had continually to the left, water above the river, with its fresh,
green and pompous bank vaults and canopies willow, alder and blackberry, and topábamos from
time to time with a small town, although not very happy color, spice up the monotony of the landscape.

At
the edge of the last of this series of them in the center of a small amphitheater of bare
hills in their tops, were reborbollando the copious springs emerge
from famous river, after briefly haven to orientate in the field and
gain breaths from the slopes of their own crib, escapes from there,
running around, hiding from light whenever possible, as everyone who
does evil to leave soon for his native land, bring the benefits of
their waters to foreign fields and unknown people, and pay to inattentive
during his tribute to all his wealth to whom you should not be in
a good law.

Y to faith, or my eyes deceived me much, or would work very easy and cheap to tackle the runaway
a short distance from their sources, and as punishment for his disloyalty, cast him down headlong
downhill without giving rest to give point, macerated and in foams, the wrath of its owner
and natural lord, the broad and fiery Bay of Biscay.

I should spend too much time meditating on these and other childish things, and taste the memories
awoke in me the contemplation of those crystal clear waters that have so as do history and
the imagination of poets, because the footman, saving all the usual compliments on his rude
courtesy, I noted the desirability of us to continue walk.

- Da Grim - obeying said - think of the behavior of this renegade mountain.

I had to decipher the metaphor for the footman to understand me what I wanted to say; and as
I had understood, he replied:

- Déjeli, déjeli to go in grace and, earlier, before jaz Aonda needed more than here. Pa meter
Malis buya and cause maybe, people have many Rius as estimated by the band here.

Explicóse turn the footman for me to understand, and I became convinced, with examples I became
overwhelmed mountain rivers perhaps without why or wherefore, sweeping houses bridges and mills
in the highest, and eating in the valleys the land should be watering, that may well be meritorious
what had seemed in the Ebro unpardonable.
 "No! not to escape a beating every day will I tell a falsehood!"

"And why not, you silly jackanapes?" asked his ungodly comrade, in a tone of derision.

"Because my parents taught me it was sinful, and God has forbidden it," said William. "My mother
always told me that lying was the first step in the road to ruin; and I read in my Bible that
no one 'that loveth and maketh a lie' can enter into that Holy City of which God himself is
the glory and the light."

Dear young reader, how glorious is the majesty of truth! The dissipated and sin-loving journeyman,
long since made familiar with vice, could not listen unmoved as the boy uttered the scriptural
denunciation in the solemn and reverential manner he had been taught was proper, it was long
since Jem Taylor had heard any word from that holy book, and now, awed by the dignity of the
truth, that great principle of Christian life and conduct, he made no answer, but continued
to work in silence. Perhaps he might have resumed the subject; but Mr. Walters came in and
commenced the usual fault-finding, and Jem answering reproach with reproach, there was nothing
more said.

One day soon after, William was directed to go to the upper shop for a pair of white satin
shoes, which he was to carry to a wealthy lady who lived during the summer months in a handsome
cottage in the suburbs. How happy he was at thought of seeing something like the country once
more! and he started off at full speed, his elastic spirit happy and hopeful as if it had never
known a sorrow. The sunshine was so cheering, and rested so brightly on the spires as it bathed
them in its golden radiance, that his whole mood partook of the genial glow. He had reached
the upper part of the city, and was quite in the neighbourhood of the house where the shoes
were to be left, when a large dog coming round the corner at a speed as rapid as his own, ran
directly in his way, and threw him over. There had been a heavy shower in the early part of
the afternoon, the gutters were still full of water, and although he was not hurt by his fall,
yet in the shock the shoes were dashed from his hand, and fell into the muddy bath.

With feelings of terror not to be described, our poor hero saw the black fluid streaming over
the beautiful shoes; and after having stood for a moment as if paralyzed, he plunged his hand
into the filthy pool and drew them out.

He might have served as a study for a painter as he stood surveying the consequences of the
mishap; his countenance expressed almost every emotion of the human mind, as he held up the
shoes and tried to wipe away the black mud which dyed them, until at length, finding all his
efforts ineffectual, he burst into a fit of passionate weeping.

Do not think his tears were puerile; his spirit was naturally strong, but he was only a child,
and his bodily frame weak from want of nourishing food.

Bitter was his grief; and altogether at a loss how to proceed, for a moment he was tempted
to resolve never again to face his unkind guardian, and seek another home, no matter where;
he believed he could not be worse off. But those early teachings drawn from the Scripture rules,
which had been so prayerfully impressed upon his plastic mind in the little cottage at M----,
now came back upon his heart; the remembrance of his parents came vividly before him, and he
determined to act as they would have advised--namely, openly and according to the truth; he
would be upright, let the consequences be to himself what they might.

Providence, however, that so kindly watches over all who put their trust in him, and suffers
none to be tempted beyond what they can bear, had raised up a friend to help in this hour of need.

Attracted by the beauty of the sunset, an old gentleman of most reverential aspect was looking
from the window of one of the handsomest houses in the square, but was not so lost in contemplation
of the clouds that he had not observed poor William and pitied his misfortune.

"Did your father send you with these shoes, boy?" said he; "why do you cry so bitterly about
the misfortune which cannot be helped?"

"Dear sir," replied William, as he raised up the ruined shoes, from which the muddy water was
still dripping, "I have no father nor mother now; my master will be very angry and beat me.
I am sure I could not help it;" and a fresh flood of tears proved his grief for the disaster.

"How much did he tell you to ask for the shoes?" inquired the old gentleman.

The boy named the amount, at the same time wiping the shoes with the corner of his blue blouse.

"Here, boy, give this to your master to pay him for the shoes," said the gentleman, throwing
him some money from the window; "and here is a shilling for yourself; I think you are an honest
boy, so keep that to indemnify you for your fright."

William was amazed, but before he had time to thank the kind stranger, he had turned away,
and the vacated place was filled by a different-looking object. A little, mirthful-looking,
fair-haired girl, about seven years old, carrying a doll nearly as large as herself in her
arms, looked from the window, and seeing our poor hero, burst into a loud fit of laughter,
for which he could not account. Although anxious to know the cause, he was too bashful to ask
the reason, and as she retreated almost immediately, he, after waiting a few minutes in hopes
the gentleman would re-appear, was compelled to retrace the way which led to his cheerless home.

"What have you been doing, you idle scamp?" exclaimed Mr. Walters, as he entered; "have you
been fighting with street-boys, or wrestling with chimney-sweeps? Look at yourself, what a
figure you make with all the mud of the street on your face!" and pushing him before a small
looking-glass that hung in the shop, bade him account for the "condition of this beautiful visage."

The poor boy had dried his tears with the same corner of his blouse with which he had wiped
the gutter-soiled shoes, and had thus transferred the black mud to his face; and as he surveyed
his changed countenance in the glass, he recollected, and was at no loss to account for the
little maiden's burst of laughter. Forgetting that his stern master stood beside him, and the
bitter tears he had so lately shed, with that buoyancy of spirit which is the peculiar property
of childhood, and surmounts all rules, he laughed aloud until recalled to his usual gravity
by some blows on his shoulders from his master's heavy hand. "How dare you laugh so impertinently
in my presence?" he asked, while administering the remedy of the strap, which he considered
a specific for all misdemeanours; and now not only stopped the poor boy's laughing, but caused
him to tremble under the undeserved punishment.

"Where is the money for the shoes?" he thundered forth, when he found time to speak.

William handed it to him, and detailed the whole circumstance, not concealing that the gentleman
had given him a shilling for himself.

"Give it here," said Mr. Walters; "boys like you, who have everything found them, have no need
of money; it only serves to lead them into mischief;" and taking up his hat, and bidding his
wife have supper in half an hour, he left the shop.

"Bill Raymond, you are one of the grandest of donkey-headed fools I ever saw in my life," said
Jem Taylor, as soon as they were alone, after examining that the door leading to the kitchen
was shut. "Why did you give him the shilling, which was your own? The price of the shoes, too,
you might have kept, for your honesty did not save you from a beating. Why did you say anything
about it'! I would have taken the beating and kept the money."

We have mentioned how Will met and triumphed over the first temptation; and when Taylor had
repeatedly afterward assailed him with like arguments, he had never wavered; and the only consequence
of his advice had been to create dislike and mistrust of one who could advocate a practice
so entirely at variance with the law of God. But now he listened to the tempter, and without
reproof of the sin which he could not fail to recognise.

"After all," said he to himself, "Jem Taylor is right; I get beaten whether I am honest or
not, and that money would have bought me many nice things. Yes, and I am so often hungry; and
when I see the street boys spending pennies at the cake stalls and I have nothing, it makes
me so angry; and I cannot bear this old Walters. I know I will not be so foolish another time;
but I will keep at least the money which is given to myself, and take good care he shall know
nothing about it."

And why was his frame of mind so changed? Why did he view the deception as less repulsive than
at first? The reason is easily told: he had relaxed his watchfulness in adhering to the path
of duty, and although careful still to say the prayer taught him by those whose memory was
as vividly dear as ever, it was more the form of words than the heart-prompted petition. Alas!
the poisonous influence around him was beginning to tell, and he would soon throw off the only
armour that could shield him from the temptations of the wicked, or guard against the more
insidious attacks of his own deceiving and deceitful heart. He was not more happy, although
in liking Jem Taylor better he had become more, reckless, and listened to his advice more patiently
than at first; and although he still prayed, "Lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from
evil," he did not take in its spiritual meaning, and forgot the Saviour's injunction to "watch"
as well as "pray."

But God, who knows all man's weakness, and whose mercy exceeds even man's sin, raised up at
this time a friend for the desolate boy--it seemed as though to preserve him from the peril
with which he was menaced. There were but one or two of the neighbours who ever visited the
Walters, for the master was too surly and the mistress too penurious to exchange hospitality
with any one. The tailor, next door, could come but seldom, as he was always busy; but the
watchman of that district, who lived but a few doors distant, and whose wife sold Mrs. Walters
milk, came more frequently than the tailor, and as he was a conversable man and understood
politics, Walters was rather glad of his coming than otherwise. Will was generally sent for
the milk, and his pale face and dejected look awakened the sympathies of this honest and God-fearing
couple. They soon learned that he was an orphan, and Thomas Burton, the good watchman, having
noticed the harsh treatment he received, and not at all ignorant of Jem Taylor's character,
and the danger he was in of being led astray, determined to watch over him, and, if possible,
prevent his being ruined. He therefore encouraged him in every way he could, and the gleams
of sunlight his kindness and sympathy shed on the dark path of the orphan boy, showed that
he was no stranger to that "charity" which, taught by the gospel, "never faileth," and is "kind."

After the first temptation to falsehood, William had avoided Jem Taylor as much as possible;
but now, in consequence of his "consenting to be enticed to sin," he rather shunned the good
Burtons, and took more pleasure in listening to the slang of the shop than in his own thoughts.
He suffered his mind to dwell on the advice given him in relation to the price of the shoes
and the shilling, and grieved over the loss of both, until he no longer considered that keeping
the price of the shoes would have been a dishonest act. He began to be of Jem's opinion, that
he had shown himself a blockhead, and resolved to act differently in future. "But, indeed,
I would have liked to thank that good old gentleman," said he to himself; "although I was none
the better for the money. It is a pity he does not know that Mr. Walters took it all; but I
will try not to think any more about it. I know now what I will do," he cried, as a sudden
thought struck him; "that little girl with the large doll must be his daughter, so I will make
a pair of little shoes for the waxen lady."

William carried his purpose into execution. In the evening, when the working hours were over,
he gathered up some scraps of red morocco which had been thrown aside as useless, and carried
them up to the attic where he slept, so that as soon as daylight appeared he might begin his
work. This he did, and had cut out and nearly half made a pair of doll's boots before the usual
time of going to work. He could not, however, find any red ribbon with which to bind and tie
them; some bits of blue were lying about, and as he had not a penny to purchase that which
was suitable, he was obliged to use it. The next morning saw them finished, and wrapping them
up in a small packet, he put it in his pocket, and went to his work quite happy that he had
been able to accomplish his task without the knowledge of his master.

The new satin shoes, made in place of those which had fallen into the gutter, were finished
and brought in by evening, and although it was almost sundown, and the walk a long one, William
was only too happy to be charged with their delivery. He set forth cheerily, and as he approached
the house from whence the money had been thrown him, his heart beat joyfully--yes, that was
the very window where the kind old gentleman stood; and, a better sight than that, the outer
door stood open. It was but the work of a moment to seat himself on the broad marble steps
and write on his packet, with a bit of lead pencil, "The shoemaker's boy returns thanks for
the kindness of the other day," and placed it in a corner of the vestibule, where it could
not fail to be noticed.

This done, he set off at his usual rate of speed, and without once looking round to see if
he had been observed, he hurried on to the dwelling of the lady for whom the shoes were made.
She was much pleased with them, paid the price, sent a new order to Mr. Walters, and gave him
a sixpence for himself. William, altogether rejoiced at receiving the gift, trifling as it
was, resolved in this case to do as Jem Taylor advised; he would not give it to Mr. Walters;
and if he asked anything about it, he would say he had received nothing. "No, I will spend
it before I get home," he said half aloud, and took the direction which led to a baker's shop,
where he would buy and feast upon rolls.

But something more attractive in the shape of a picture shop came before him; rolls and gingerbread
were forgotten in the delight he experienced in feasting his eyes on some paintings in the
window. "I really will try to draw that old man and his dog," said he to himself; "but then
I have no paper; ah yes, the sixpence the lady gave me!" and with the welcome recollection
he turned away from the tempting sight, purchased some paper and ran home, which he reached
in good time.

CHAPTER VII.

THE TEMPTER TRIUMPHS.

"Did the lady give you nothing more?" inquired Mr. Walters, as William handed him the money
for the shoes and mentioned the new order. He had been pleased with the boy's ingenuous honesty
shown a day or two before, and was now in a more sunny humour than usual. The old watchman,
too, had come in for a half-hour's chat, and was sitting in the back shop, from whence Mr.
Walters had come. "What did she give you?" he repeated, as he saw the boy hesitate.

William blushed, stammered something inaudible, and looked at Jem Taylor, who, as master's
back was turned so that he could not see him, made signs to our hero to conceal the truth.
"I am sure she gave you something," cried the master, now growing angry; "tell me the truth
this moment."

The poor boy now recollected that he had spent part of it, and was more embarrassed than at
first; the nods, winks, and smiles of the vicious journeyman were aiding in the struggle to
conquer the boy's virtue, and at last triumphed. The anger of Mr. Walters was now fully aroused.
He seized his young apprentice by the shoulder, and in a voice of thunder repeated the question;
to which, pale and trembling, more from the terrible conflict within than dread of the uplifted
arm of his cruel master, he answered, "I did not get any money!"

Dear young reader, the first step on the downward road is the only one that costs, the rest
are easy; and our poor hero, the child of Christian parents, the subject of many prayers, had
listened to the voice of the charmer, and now he stood on the verge of the dangerous boundary
line. Was he to fall, or would God, whom he had been taught to love and honour, shield him
in his perilous situation? Ah yes; for is there not One who, loving the wretched and suffering
children of the earth--One who, touched with the feeling of man's infirmities, took on himself
the likeness of sinful flesh, and dwelt among them, administering mercy to all? For being in
all points tempted as we are, yet without sin, he himself having suffered, he is able to succour
them that are tempted.

And there were purposes of mercy in store for the orphan boy, when the chastisements with which
God sees good to inflict on the children of his love should have passed away. This trial of
his power to resist temptation was permitted, in order to show him that a better strength than
his own was necessary, and that it is only through the divine Helper that any can be delivered
from the power of the great enemy "who goeth about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour."

Mr. Walters at once recognised the falsehood our poor hero was tempted to tell; and although
he was in the habit of beating him for almost every offence, the chastisement on this occasion
exceeded any that had gone before. 

When you factor should surrender the assets of the people for their management, the way to now they
have given to managers, with only the difference that had to deliver over priced and make their
values, but with the same intervention now have the mayor and steward of the people, keeping
each of the three keys each store, thus being not easy to find the qualities expressed factors,
and while bonds have to ensure the flow of management, would be risky thing putting in his
hand, with absolute freedom, this management.

For the factor is bent and seek every means imaginable useful and beneficial the factory, it was
convenient thing to point out, in lieu of salary, a percentage of annual profits of the factory,
but at the same time that the factory should Do not give anything for food and amenities, or
raised to allow any Indian or boy who was not paying his salary and giving the food, plus the
fact that was to be voluntary and not forced. With this decision is minoraría, and even extinguished,
the multitude of unnecessary employees in schools, and would go out to work on what was useful to
them and the people, will excuse the daily expenditure has grown now community as feeding not
only the manager and his family, but also those are caused by feeding stray few dealers and
even walk in these villages, therefore being at the expense of the factors to keep your table,
not so liberally franquearían everyone. Looking at the bills that have come from Buenos Aires
since the expulsion, see in them that most of what they contain are edible and utensils kitchen
and table, all managers have used and nothing has been spent relief of the Indians, and all
this was cut So everyone ate and was served at his expense.

Factor would be the responsibility of determining the tasks that should
keep the factory, preferring always affords greater profits.

The good condition of the rooms had to take the first attention, as they took hold in the main
livelihood of the people and which, being well served, yielding significant progress with its profits.
The yerbales culture that exist in all peoples, and that lack of care are badly deteriorated,
and even lost, would endeavor to restore the factor with the timely cultivation and replenishment
and growth of new plants, thus achieving good crop of grass, and the increase in value when
they would betray the people, because everything should assess depending on the status of receipt and
delivery. Also would serve to increase and good cotton and sugar cane, and to ensure abundant
crops to increase farm and values.

Can also undertaken many other tasks in the villages, and factors not be neglected to take
advantage of the proportions of the country.

Wood cutting and forwarding them to Buenos Aires, the construction of vessels, and to sell in Buenos
Aires to bustle them by the rivers, transporting the estates, the benefits of yerba mate plantations
in wild Paraná and Uruguay and by land and water the cattle to the fields raised cattle, and many
others which are practiced and have always practiced.

They can also invent other new jobs which offer many advantages such
as older established and well known: the cultivation and indigo, that
there has been exemplary benefited very good people, and I have notice
benefits in Paraguay by a particular its quite useful, and manioc
flour, farina pao known among the Portuguese, and starch, the two
species are estimated and consuming in Buenos Aires, and that is something
cinch the manufacture and abundant cassava in these villages.

Rice also offers much account in building refineries to clean, and a myriad of minutiae that
would help increased trade, occupation and income of the Indians.

Cultivation and processing of snuff, and the black as they call red, offers these crecidísimas peoples
benefits. This branch, which in the present state can not overtake extinct if the communities
could provide high magnification, is the planting and cultivation snuff cinch to any individual
who is devoted to agriculture, but the benefit after collecting the leaf is painful to those who were
not free, time and proportions This, and more the benefit of black
snuff for many tools that are needed.

Al same time the factory would be embarrassing to flood crops, cultivation and collection of
snuff, but it would be easy profit after papers were collected, and so what should was that the
Indians, and any other individuals, would go all the plantings in their own buy farms and in
deep leaf seasoned pagándosela cash at a price are regulated, so that remains a modest profit to the
factory, which, with appropriate tools, it would snap the benefits grow lots of black snuff and
red, applying to each class was best for her. Thus it was necessary stockpiles grew, then, almost
every Indian sown, as they are many, taking freedom to work on the land so fertile, it would
make good crops, which would increase by planting which in turn hiciese the factory, which should
also the had.

Plantings of all the fruit supply, such as wheat, corn and all kinds of beans, the Indians
would verify as they are accustomed to them, and they would buy the factory for the supply of
the village. Well is that, if necessary or helpful, could also make the factory.

To keep all these tasks, or those most accounts offer, should be in cahoots Indian laborers
who were necessary for applying to the children and old to occupations that they could comply.
These laborers should be voluntary, and they would weekly pay, governs
a very moderate wages, which in my mind enough not lacking for laborers
and who work hard, which in the hardest-working and applied are regulated
at 6 reales per week, 5, 4 and 3 to less activity, grading of each,
giving them all a hearty meal at noon, boys, girls old and old enough
that they reached the wages to dress and feed.

Although the inclination I know in all these Indians are not colluding and earn wages I have
certainly no lack few peons need the factory to their tasks, before
On the contrary, I believe that the factory would bring precision
to occupy other all, if my concept come out wrong in this part, and
the Indians are more applicable to their work colluding in particular
to the factory, no inconvenience is that the factory would reduced
its tasks only the most useful and accurate, and that they will oblige
weekly and in turn the necessary laborers, paying them their wages,
and that in case of non-Indians disengaged, because, having, them
and not others should make clear to work as idle and vagrant people.

Shall be most desirable that the factor can be in cahoots, and conchabo, few Spanish are presented,
or may be, for laborers of the rooms, chores yerbales, snuff and benefit for all occupations
to be good destinations for which, when mixed with the Indians at work, teach and encourage them to
work, and so it should be the cahoots some of these Spanish for foremen of the various tasks
to be undertaken, although the latter should be admitted to government approval, and not otherwise.

At
the end of each week should the Payment of wages that have accrued
pawns in a week, according to the ballots to be given them overseers,
who should be arranged and implementation assistance that each would
have had that week.

All stockpiles that were made in a fruit or effects should be made weekly in stores three keys
with the magistrate and butler intervention, and even the council, if it had fit, settling in a book
that should exist within the same store, entries, signing everyone in it, practicing the same with
the exits, and some as others should be made more in the stores, and the factor and Butler should
have books individuals that enter the same items, as well as a diary that target small items
in the speech of the week will be collecting or expending so that clearly stated and the purity
of this management.

Inside the main house should be allocated a piece on purpose to give it a store or grocery
store by a Spanish or Indian employee purpose, which is sold all kinds of edible offal of daily
need, delivering account all what there was to sell and collect the money every Saturday sales
surrender of the week, which should also be placed in the box store three keys, which should have
to book her ticket and outflows of cash, with the same formalities
as the of the fruits and effects, and every four months or when the
factor would fit, would final accounts of the grocery store to know
the status of her and her management, warning its result to the government.

For

this grocery store was stocked with everything you should care factor, for its part, and do to
look after the butler, that all the fat of cattle, and from those killed on farms and in the
people, serve candle which it was made there, as well as grease from
them.

That is kneaded bread, not lacking beans, corn and other edible the country produces and consumes
the Indians, as well as salt, sugar, honey, soap, so they lack nothing of what might be offered,
except for strong drink, they should be banned entirely, as they are by the law.

For prices of the sales hiciesen these retail grocery stores were not arbitrary the factors or store
owners should be given by government tariffs, the prices fixed that were established by other
duties, for purchases that would make the factory the Indians, so that selling retail could not
exceed 25 or 30 percent price increase that they had bought and sold
wholesale only half the retail.

The supply of meat should be in charge of a Spanish or Indian, arranged so that each res good
size utility left the factory weight of silver and leather value spending of manipulators and
pastors.

It would be convenient and very precise thing that the stores were stocked with adequate clothing
for these people, and of those called in Castile as the country, ensuring that in the factories
of paintings of peoples listadillos work, and all those who use and
crave the Indians, as also no lack of brakes, spurs and any giblets
know they are useful, and trying not to introduce useless and superfluous,
and only Saturdays, and with the assistance of the mayor, mayor and
some council, should be opened check stores and sale of these effects
are of daily necessity, and the amount drop it right there in the
box of three keys in the manner aforesaid, and separation other items.

These effects could increase cargársele on the main cost Buenos Aires, 40 or 50 percent, so
they bear the cost of driving, failure and impairments that may suffer, and excises to be paid,
and commanded to leave a good gain, for it serves in a common utility, scope and terms after
be said.

A no Spanish or Indian, established or employed in the towns, which should be allowed effects introduced
to sell, or even of its precise use, as everyone should buy the factory,
but it will be allowed to sell the necessary licenses to individuals
from outside the province to come and buy them out, even lowering
price something that is regularly sold at retail to those established
within it, thus increase the field of trade, and therefore the profits
of the factory.

While the factory and factor wages and employment should give all those who pidiesen, and compel the
justices through the idle to work, should also buy from the Indians, and even the Spanish settlers,
few fruits and effects acquire with their work and industry prices that the government had
established, even if There would have been any sale that they had
to do for it would be something highly desirable that everyone had
secured the sale of the product of their work.

Well is that the government would care to put tiny fruit prices and little effect necessary to
separate the Indians from the application useless things useful by tilting the through the
best prices and profits that they surrender, as we shall in the case
of government.

Butler would be in charge, with the intervention, guidance and care of the factor, buying few fruits
and giblets daily bring him to sell the Indians, paying in cash to set prices, to which should
be in possession of some money that he take account of the end of the week, receiving and storing
what they had bought, and giving enough money for the following week. This same foremen should
buy and pay the thread that the Indian hilasen and wanted to sell, fixing prices according to
their qualities, in my mind should be paid to 3 reales per pound of wick, 4 of thread Thick canvas,
7 the medium, 12 the fine and 16 the superfine, and sell them in the shop real half-pound
of cotton, or 10 reales the arroba, on the assumption that I buy a 8 reales the arroba of wishing
to sell their crops.

The thread that are collected could be used to canvas for your grades,
paying the weavers their work, as the rods and quality of parts.

The factor should be atahona to all who wished were milling wheat where so, without further payment
for milling that is deemed sufficient to keep peons atahonas mules and composure, and would likewise
mills, and all utensils for grinding benefit the sugarcane and honey and sugar, and, finally,
all those offices would not easy coastal poor, and that lack of them
or do not sow or plant those effects, the inability to benefit them
or lose them for lack of them.

 It
was fully three hours after his scanty dinner had been eaten, and supper would be over ere
he returned. Growing boys are always hungry, and he was about to venture to ask Mrs. Walters
for a lunch to serve in place of the evening meal, when he remembered the rolls given him by
Mrs. Burton, and which were still in his trunk. He hid the little packet in his bosom, intending
to eat its contents on his way home; and after having put his letter in the post-office, he
set off to accomplish his errand.

One might have thought the walk, and the variety always met with in the streets of a large
city, would have exhilarated him; but, whether owing to the condition of his bodily health,
this was not now the case. He passed the picture-shops without noticing the treasures in the
windows; the silver-ware and fanciful ornaments of the jewellers' establishments served only
to remind him of the vanities of earth, and his own poverty; and as he looked upon the gaily-dressed
crowd that was thronging Broadway, among which there was not one whose face was known to him,
that painful sense of desolation which comes over one when he feels alone in a crowd, saddened
him almost to tears. He recalled the happy days of his early childhood, and even those when,
after his father's death, he had been compelled to labour to assist his mother. Ah, how light
it all seemed in comparison with the hardship of his present lot! Notwithstanding the comfort
he had enjoyed on the previous day, and his renewed determination to do his duty and trust
in God, his heart grew sick at the prospect of the long years of wretchedness and bondage yet
to be endured before his apprenticeship should end; and he wished to die. "I am the most unhappy
being on the face of the earth," he said, as he wiped away the tears with his ragged sleeve;
"but still I will try to do right. Ah, if Nicholas Herman knew how unhappy I am, I am sure
he would try to get me away!" He had by this time reached the city limits, and the gardener's
cottage, with its high enclosing palisades and espaliers hanging with tempting fruit, was visible.
The hedge which bordered on the roadside was green, and its verdure attractive to one accustomed
to country life. Bounding over the ditch which separated it from the common path, he was about
to continue his walk along its margin, when his step was arrested by a sound of distress. He
looked round and saw a little boy, barefoot and thinly clad, sitting on the ground and weeping
bitterly. A little basket, half filled with chips, told what his occupation had been, while
his pale face and meagre form were such as to awaken pity in the heart of the most careless.
William was not so absorbed in his own distress that he had no sympathy to bestow on another.
He stooped over the boy, and, as he kindly took him by the hand, a tear, which his own circumstances
had called forth, fell upon the boy's cheek, and caused him to look up in surprise.

"What are you crying for?" asked William; "are you afraid, or has any one hurt you?"

The little fellow only answered by questioning: "You are crying yourself;" said he; "are you
as hungry as I am?"

"Are you really crying for hunger! that is dreadful!" rejoined William. "I know what it is
not to have enough to eat, but still I never have been so starved as to cry about it."

"Neither grandmother nor I have had anything to eat since morning, and I am very hungry."

"But what are you doing here?" inquired our hero.

"Just gathering some sticks, to make a fire for grandmother, who is sick, and cannot spin now,"
answered the boy, still weeping.

"Have you no parents to take care of you?" again asked William. "What is your name, and where
do you live?"

The boy answered that his name was Ned Graham, and named a street at no great distance from
the place where they were, and which was well known to William. He said that his parents were
both dead; that while his father, who was a carpenter, lived, they had been very comfortable;
but that now, as his grandmother was very old, and himself too young to do anything to help
to make a livelihood, they were often hungry. "Grandmother spun and knit until she became sick,
and the neighbours still sent us in something; but they are poor themselves, grandmother says;
and this morning, when old Annie Michael, who supports herself and children by washing, sent
us some of her breakfast, grandmother said she could not bear to take it."

William had no rejoinder to make, for self-reproach was busy at his heart. But a little while
ago he had thought himself "the most unhappy being on the face of the earth," and now he could
not help feeling that the condition of poor little Ned was far more wretched than his own.
His food, indeed, was coarse and scanty enough; but then he had his regular meals, while this
poor child and his infirm grandmother were obliged to subsist on the charity of the poor, which
could not be very regularly or liberally administered.

"I am surely very ungrateful to my heavenly Father," said he, half aloud. "Hereafter, when
I am disposed to complain of my food, I will think of this poor boy. But stop; I had forgotten
the rolls Mrs. Burton gave me. I am not very hungry now;" and taking the packet from his bosom
pocket, he gave it to the little starveling.

"I am not to have them all?" said Ned, as he broke one off, and began to eat it. "Do you not
want some yourself?"

"No," replied William; "I will get some supper when I go home; so carry half of them to your
grandmother, for you are both hungry, and have no supper to expect."

And now, although hungry himself, with what pleasure did he give his rolls to one whose want
was far greater than his own! He felt, in this denying of self, how great was the luxury of
doing good; for mercy--

    "Droppeth as the gentle dew from heaven.
  Upon the place beneath. It is twice blessed;
  It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes."

Having finished his errand to the market-gardener's wife, and received a new order for some
children's shoes, he took little Ned by the hand, and, having left him at his home, and looked
in on the sick grandmother, he went back to his master's house, which now wore a more comfortable
aspect than it had ever done before. So true is it that God accords to none unmitigated misery;
and there are few, if any, who, like our hero, are tempted to believe themselves the most wretched
beings in the world, who need anything but to look around among their fellow-men, to find that
they are not the only or the greatest sufferers. Neither should any allow themselves to think
that poverty and misfortune form the chief misery of man. None but the guilty are completely
wretched; and trials are but necessary discipline to bring the soul from earth to heaven. "Before
I was afflicted I went astray; but now I keep thy law," are the words of David; and how many
can be found ready to acknowledge that "it is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth:
for the. Lord will not cast off for ever; but though he cause grief, yet will he have compassion,
according to the multitude of his mercies."

And so from this time, although the treatment he received at his cheerless home was no better,
the change which had come over his spirit since his late humiliation, had urged him to fly
to the throne of grace for protection against the weakness of his own heart, and also made
the hardships he endured seem less. He grew more mature by the severe discipline which, sanctified
by the Spirit of grace, was purifying his soul; and he pursued the homely trade which at first
he so disliked, and tried to conquer self by hurrying past the picture-shops, which were so
great a source of attraction at first, and now regarded them as forbidden fruit. Not that they
were less attractive, but his own heart told him, and so did his friend, Thomas Burton, that
God appoints to every one such a sphere of action as is suited to his nature; and although
to one has been committed but one talent, while another has five, and another ten, the principle
on which each is improved is the same. The great work each one has to do is within his own
breast, and he that would gain the crown promised at the end of life's course must run the
race in the spirit and temper of the gospel, which are humility and meekness.

In consequence of this subdued spirit and a greater readiness to obey, his harsh guardians
relaxed so far as to yield to the persuasions of the good watchman, and suffered him to go
on Sunday afternoons to church and Sabbath school, as well as sometimes to spend the evening
with himself.

And this, dear reader, proved like a fountain of sweet water in the wilderness; and, as an
oasis in the desert, furnished rest and refreshing, which strengthened him to bear up against
the hardships and trials of the week. And as, in hearing the Scriptures expounded and learning
their soul-comforting lessons, the word, as the Psalmist says, became "hidden in his heart,"
it proved more precious to him than the "gold of Ophir." It taught him to guard against the
deceitfulness of his own heart; to discern temptation, however speciously veiled; pointed out
the way to escape when sorely beset; and showed him where, when "weary and heavy laden," to
seek for rest. Duty was made plain; and, taught to understand his own errors, he also understood
by what means to guard against them. He now walked according to the scriptural rule, and found
his reward in the peace promised unto those "whose mind is stayed on God, and trust him."

CHAPTER IX.

SUNSHINE AND SHADOW.

Mrs. Bradley, the wife of the market gardener, was a kind-hearted woman, and William having
often been sent to her house with shoes, an acquaintanceship grew up between them, which, our
hero found, turned out most unexpectedly to his advantage.

As she stood or sat in her place at the corner, surrounded by her fresh vegetables, for which
she had always plenty of customers, she often found herself in want of some one whom she could
trust to carry a bunch of asparagus or a basket of spinach to some purchaser's house. From
what she had seen of William, she was assured he would do an errand faithfully; and although
he could not come regularly, she often waited for his appearing rather than trust another.
For these little services she always paid him liberally, and had he been less conscientious
than he was, he might have turned this kindness to considerable advantage; but his conscience
told him he must not neglect his master's business.

He mentioned this to the good woman, who, seeing its propriety, was careful only to give him
such commissions as he could fulfil without wasting the time belonging to his employer; her
good opinion being only increased by his scrupulous fear of doing wrong.

Very happy indeed he was to have some money of his own. Mr. Walters, being somewhat ashamed
of his conduct as exhibited before Jem Taylor and the watchman, had never since asked him what
he got from the customers; but Mrs. Walters often borrowed our hero's change, as she said,--but
which loans were never repaid. William, however, true to his resolution of adhering to the
truth, never denied having money when she asked him; but, we must confess, he gave it with
a pang, for he wanted his scanty means for a more important purpose, namely, to feed the hungry.
The rule of life to which he was now adhering forbade him to do evil that good might follow,
and knowing that if he received the money it would not be long in his possession, he would
only take a portion of these earnings, and begged Mrs. Bradley to give the rest to little Ned
Graham, whom he would send to her house.

She inquired who Ned Graham was, and having heard, declared that "nobody should starve in her
neighbourhood; she would not only give the little boy the pennies, but see after the old woman."

It was only when sent on some errand to the neighbourhood he could look in on old Mrs. Graham
and her grandson; but when he did, his heart was filled with such joy as made him forget that
he had ever suffered or been sad. The "cup of cold water," given in the spirit of Him who went
about doing good, insures its own reward; he had extended the sympathy and kindness due by
the bond of human brotherhood to those more destitute than himself, and he found himself blessed. 

I

The reasons for my uncle founded the tenacity of their efforts
were very wise, and I was going sent by mail, hand written with awkward,
quill pen, ink rancid fat letters and antiquated spelling, bearded
paper purchased in the tobacconist's place.

I do not just threw on deaf ears, but the case for me was to meditated a lot and, therefore,
between claim and respond to it and think I was passing a good season.

The first letter which dealt with the issue was the largest of the eight or ten in the series.
He feared it out of the blue slip, and I prepared the way for their
purposes, "taking things from way back, as if we try first, but by
far, for the first time.

"

"I would greatly hindered the pen between the fingers", in that they
revealed the harshness of the lines, inequality of points and signals
over a fresh smear or spread licked with the edge of the hand, "but
with patience and goodwill overcame the impossible."

"Your father's parents - I wrote - not other children managed to your
father and me.

I was the primogeniture, and as such, this root from the point and time I was born. Your father,
as more needed, and fell to the world, and rolling a lot for him, took good flow and a woman
there was no gold to be paid. In this trace I painted it when he came to realize their projects
marriage, and to take possession, in pure jest, of poverty that was his by inheritance free from your
grandparents. Was a few days coming, and I never see him again or else on earth. May he rest in eternal
peace.

"I also walk the day I got married, and had a good woman, and children that the Lord was removing
as I gave them. With the last of them was his mother. Blessed and praised be His divine will,
even that with which we are overwhelmed and beleaguered humanity! As yet I was strictly old
and I felt strong, and in these narrows and roughness of the soil abundant grass and comfort
were the short ambitions of my mind, I learned to drag bravely the cross of my pains, and
I even managed to forget, time walk, that had in tow, come on, I became a burden, and came to be
men of good content and attached to the motherland as the ivy to morio. From time to time we
wrote my brother and I, and thus did he know my fortunes and misfortunes, I'm your birth and
your sister, then this marriage of a rich American who took their land, the death of your mother
and the paths that wouldst with books from the classroom, and making it as going esponjándote
man.

"Once your card at fault gave more than usual, which was very little, and the first I had at the
end of the month was yours and tell me that your father had died of a sunstroke bitter, or something
of this art. Absent your sister and full of family and property in the other band, were left alone
in here, and aticuenta in the world, although the means of fortune to brace it at your leisure.
Like me, except the comparison of people and places. I offered with this mine, suspicious
lot, truth be told, that I wanted the stake, done with all my heart, because conjecture your
way of life and knew your picture by Pictures I'd been sending. Neither the one nor the other
was rigged well poverty and rustiquez of these parts, it seemed to me. And it would not seem
out of the way, because that was your answer, well rooted out its niceties and courtesies. Since
then was pears for pound the letters between us. You run the mint and Mecca, and I grabbed
firm these rocky hills, as montuna fence. And so we've been pulling so beautiful: you not remember
twice a year the saint of my name and I no hurry for it something more, because while I had health,
I joy, and in light of how well she was accompanied by live among these people and these cliffs
and even their beasts, and I seemed to see and feel them strength, flesh from my bones and blood
of my own veins. But you were young and had a long time and much land in front, I old and very
few fantasies in your head, and no leftover heat in the mass of blood made many years after
one of their own, and yesterday morning, as they say, a bit of anything, a drink of milk more
than the usual, the air a door, gives flight of a mosquito, my mayor in bed. It took me out of it,
and went to enter the tomb. The oak tree was swaying as if it needed the land that held, or
she will take off from the roots, or could not with the weight of its own branches. And give
me the uphill Anseo just look at them, and gladly hand the vent yesterday implement or the ax
with which I amused and the arable land in the dense forest, Today I asked the paluco the cripple,
as the strut supporting the jastial cracked, and Worse than this, that the mind is singing along
with the bones that and hastily and can no longer with the skin.
 The little animal's appearance was greatly in its favour; there were
many cats in the neighbourhood, some of them frightened-looking and half-starved creatures,
but this was a beautiful little grey and white kitten, which had evidently been some one's
favourite, for it was very tame, and had a blue ribbon tied round its neck. But what was he
to do with it? Mrs. Walters, he knew, was a sworn enemy to cats and dogs, and, had opportunity
been allowed, would have waged a war of extermination against both races. He dared not keep
it, and yet how could he resolve to drive it out into the street, where it would be sure to
be killed? "The poor thing has strayed from home," said he to himself; "I wish I knew what
I ought to do; stay--if I keep and feed it with the milk I get every day for Mrs. Walters,
that will be no better than stealing; and if I tell her it is here, she will drown it. I wonder
if Mrs. Burton would like to have it; but, indeed, I would like to keep it myself, I am often
so lonesome. But I will get Thomas to try and find out who it belongs to, and tell them--"

He could not finish the sentence, for he was still hesitating as to what was the line of duty.
The little creature, however, pleaded its own cause. As he took it up and petted it, it nestled
up close to his cheek, and mewed gently, as if uttering a petition for mercy. William could
not resist the appeal. Right or wrong he must keep it; so he carried it up to his garret, and
covered it up in his bed, after which he returned to the shop to resume his watch, and think
how his kitten was to be cared for--and, far more important, how he was to coax Mrs. Walters
into a cessation of hostilities against the feline tribe, at least so far as to tolerate the
little wanderer.

His uncle and aunt arrived in due time,--the lady in high good humour, which our hero thought
it a pity to disturb by mentioning the presence of an unwelcome guest. He would tell her in
the morning; but when the morning came, she was in such an angry mood that, as he was well
aware, no benevolence was to be expected from her then. However, the kitten must be fed, and
to do this he was prepared. He found an old bowl, which had been put in the garret with some
cracked crockery. This he took along when sent on his daily errand for milk for the family,
and, having a penny or two in his pocket, he told Mrs. Burton about his kitten, and asked if
she would not sell him some every day. Pleased with the conscientiousness which prompted the
boy to buy food for his favourite rather than take a crumb from his employers without their
permission, she told him he might keep his pennies, for she would give him a little milk every
day for his cat. "But, Billy dear," she added, "you had better tell Mrs. Walters all about
it. Do everything open and above-board. Don't be ashamed or afraid of anything but sin. She
must find it out at last, and will be more angry with you for hiding the matter. Always come
straight out with the truth; you will find it the right way in the end." It was a fine fellow burly, broad and somewhat
square shoulders, and wore blue pants with black back half, subject to the waist by a girdle
purple, and the low neck shirt, a "lastic" or red flannel jacket. Wore comprised of three anchors
on brown cloth slippers, and below the warped with fungus that covered the swollen head, long
locks of hair falling and entrerrubio rough, almost sanota color and pleasant face, whose
only fault was the most prominent lower jaw the other, as our princes of the house of Austria.
He carried in his right hand paint stick, and under the left arm, a blue umbrella, big and patches.
 As every day increased his attachment for the playful creature, so every
day made the duty of telling Mrs. Walters of its presence or giving it to Mrs. Burton the harder.
He had at length nearly resolved to do the latter, when an incident occurred which showed him
how necessary it was always to be prompt in the discharge of duty.

One day Mrs. Walters had occasion to search for something in an old chest which stood in William's
room; and the poor kitten, never dreaming what an enemy was near, crept forth from its hiding-place
in the bed, and began fearlessly to gambol around one who had no kindly sympathies to awaken.
As she looked round to see if she could discover from whence the intruder came, she espied,
in a corner, the old bowl still half full of milk, and a few crumbs of bread beside it, and
was at once assured that William had brought the cat from some place--thus outraging her authority
and braving her prejudices.

There was but one course for a nature like hers to pursue. She saw no beauty in the graceful
limbs, neither had she any respect for the mysterious principle of life--that gift which none
but the great Creator can bestow, and cared not how recklessly she destroyed it. Burning with
anger against our hero, she snatched up the unconscious kitten and descended to the shop, where,
finding no one but Taylor and the object of her present wrath, she poured out a volley of reproaches
with a rapidity which excluded all possibility of being answered.

Both were too much startled to attempt to speak; indeed there was but little time allowed,
for, even during the first ebullition of fury, she advanced to the open door and flung the
unhappy kitten as far as she could into the street. This seemed to satisfy her, for she at
once left the shop, and very soon after was seen going down the street.

William, by this sudden movement, was thrown completely off his guard, and anger, fierce and
violent anger at such an outrage, took possession of his soul. Well was it for him that time
was not allowed him to speak, for he would have uttered words afterwards greatly to be regretted.
A few moments, however, were sufficient to quell the tempest. "Doest thou well to be angry?"
were the words that arose first to his mind; and with them came also thoughts of One who taught,
"Resist not evil," nor render railing for railing. But why should such cruelty have been shown
to the poor kitten? and the thought that perhaps he had done wrong in keeping it without Mrs.
Walters' permission gave him great pain. If so, he was content to bear any outpouring of her
wrath without endeavouring to excuse himself; but still, he was determined to tell her how
he had procured the milk for his kitten, lest she should think him a thief.

As he sat bending over his work, one tear after another fell upon the leather he was hammering,
and his evident distress awoke the compassion of Jem Taylor, who, as we have already said,
was not hard-hearted, and was always ready to pity the poor boy, who suffered daily under the
iron rule of those who cared not for the happiness or misery which were in their keeping. We
cannot follow the journeyman very far through life, but let us hope that the mercy which is
extended unto all reached unto him, and taught him how evil were his ways. The time, however,
was not now. The law of God had not been impressed on his heart in childhood; he looked upon
lying as a venial offence, and had never learned that "no one who worketh abomination or maketh
a lie shall dwell in the city of which God is the glory and the light." Happy was it for our
poor hero that the good seed had been sown early and prayerfully by his humble but pious parents;
but for this he must have fallen before the tempter.

Mr. Walters had gone out to purchase leather, and the time was favourable for the thoughtless
journeyman to pour in the poison so well calculated to destroy the soul. "That's a terrible
tempered woman, Bill," said he, "and if I was in your place I would run away. How she did pitch
your poor cat into the street! If it had been mine, I tell you, I would teach her better in
future: instead of sitting there and crying like a great baby, I would plan how I could help
myself. Why could not you have told her you did not know anything about the cat? Cats run about
everywhere; and where people are so hard as old Walters and his wife, a little lying is no
harm. It is very silly in you always to tell the truth. The old man, indeed, does not ask you
for your money now; but when she wants to borrow it, you never tell her you have none, although
any one can see you do not like to give it. Now, quit being such a fool, and take care of number
one. I can tell you of a variety of ways in which you can cheat her."

William sat opposite to the tempter, but did not once raise his eyes to meet those he felt
were resting upon him. He trembled. It was almost beyond the power of childish resolution to
resist the dark power that was ready to impose a bond which would have sealed his ruin; but
he had learned too much of the true wisdom taught in the Bible to surrender willingly to the
influence of evil. He felt the weakness of his own heart, but knew also from whence only help
could come. He continued to work in silence at the shoe he was making, but at the same time
he lifted up his heart in prayer: "Heavenly Father, suffer me not to be led into temptation,"
was the fervent petition which issued from the secret chamber of the inner shrine; and He who
seeth in secret heard and answered.

Jem Taylor, mistaking his silence for assent, went on: "You have it harder than any 'prentice
boy I ever saw. Not a chap in all New York would put up with such victuals as you get; and
then to be rated and called a thief because you stole a drop of milk for the poor kitten, was
too outrageous! Such people as these deserve nothing better than to have lies told them every
hour in the day; and, besides, I would help myself to whatever I could find in the cupboard,--pay
yourself, boy, for the money the old woman borrows."

"O my dear mother!" thought William, "when you so often told me of the temptations I should
meet with in the world, I could hardly believe it; but now I know what it is to be tempted,
and that if left to myself I must fall."

Finding he still did not answer, Jem, nowise discouraged, went on: "A day or two since, when
the old woman went to market, she forgot the key of the cupboard and left it in the lock, and
the door swung most invitingly open. There was a cut pie and a plate of cakes. I told you to
go quickly and help yourself, for no one would see you, and I would not tell. It was but fair
you should take the worth of your money; but you were too great a blockhead. You looked at
the good things there, and came away empty-handed. Strange, you would steal milk for the cat,
and scruple to take a cake (which, I am sure, you earn hardly enough) for yourself."

William now raised his eyes, and as he looked straight into the face of Jem Taylor, the latter
could not bear the bright and radiant holy expression lent them by the influence of truth,
with which his soul was filled. It was now his turn to look down and work in silence, while
the boy was speaking.

"Jem," said he, "I did not steal the milk; I told Mrs. Burton about the kitten, and she gave
it to me. And when you wanted me to take the cakes, you did say that no one would see me, and
that you would not tell. I steal, Jem! No, I could not steal if I were starving; for although
assured that no man saw me, where could I go to escape the searching eye of God? I saw the
closet open, and the way clear, but I felt no wish to take what was not my own; I was hungry,
and the pie tempting, but my conscience, like a strong man, held me back. No, Jem, my mother
told me that our heavenly Father numbers every hair of our heads, and I will never run away,
lie, nor steal; and no distress shall make me willingly wander from the right path; living
or dying, I will try to keep all his commandments, and leave all my affairs to Him who cannot
do wrong."

Oh, glorious and holy majesty of truth! who can resist its power? and now the journeyman, although
ashamed to meet the glance of a child whose principles were based upon the law of Him who is
the Truth, recognised its beauty and its force. He was addicted to low and base pursuits and
pleasures, but the signature impressed originally on the heart of man, although half effaced,
was not entirely obliterated, and he shrank back as from a superior power; for he felt as if
a child had been commissioned to judge and condemn him.

A certain eloquent writer has said, "Every one is a missionary for good or evil, whether he
designs it or not; he may be a blot, radiating a dark influence over the society to which he
belongs; or he may be a blessing, spreading light and benediction over his own circle,--but
a blank no one can be!" And the two we have been describing belonged to these classes; one
was the leaven that sours or corrupts, the other the salt that silently operates; each was
performing a mission for eternity. Which one, dear young reader, was to meet approval or endure
judgment in that great day when all shall stand before the judgment-seat? How long the better
emotion which had been created in the heart of Jem Taylor lasted, we cannot tell; he began
to talk on other matters, and for a long time there was no more temptation from that quarter.

Mr. Walters came in soon afterward, and having heard of the affair, was ready to renew the
strife with our poor hero; but as Thomas Burton, making a most opportune visit, bore testimony
to the truth of our hero's story, no further punishment than the loss of the cat was deemed
necessary.

CHAPTER X.

MAKING OTHERS HAPPY.

William had always been a delicate boy, although, while in the country, his health was good;
but now the confined air of the shop, and the odour of the leather, and the stooping posture
consequent on his trade, began to tell painfully upon him. He wondered what was the matter
that he did not now ever feel bright and hopeful. He went about his work mechanically, was
listless and silent. His features assumed a cast of anxiety unnatural in a child, and painful
to notice. Still, no duty was neglected, nor did the Walters notice the change in his looks,
since all allotted services were duly rendered. The young spirit was gradually yielding to
the oppressive yoke, although patiently borne. But although cast down and perplexed, it was
not in despair. The light commanded by "God to shine out of darkness" still illumined his heart
and gave him comfort, and at the source ever open to the broken-hearted he could still appeal.
Without the support of that "arm" which is never "shortened that it cannot save," he could
not have borne up under the hardships of his present lot.

He was not sent quite so much into the street as at first; for he could now make shoes, and
his work was valuable to his master. He did not often see little Ned Graham, as it was only
on Saturday evenings that he carried home the week's work; but he always saw Mrs. Bradley at
her place in the market, and through her sent the pennies he was able from time to time to gather.

One day Mr. Walters came in from the upper shop with a pair of shoes in his hand, which he
told our hero to carry to Professor Stewart's, No. 200 ---- street. He obeyed at once, for
he was glad to breathe the open air; but the walk was not productive of the same pleasure as
formerly. His mood was sad and his step feeble; although the air was only clear and bracing,
it sent a chill through his weakened frame, turning what had once been his favourite recreation
into positive pain. The variety met with in the streets had no power to attract his attention;
the pictures in the windows had lost their charms; the flashing waters of the noble bay covered
with vessels, from whose mast-heads floated the flags of many nations, failed to awaken his
admiration; it requires lightness of heart to enjoy the beauty spread around us.

Thus, depressed in body and spirit, he wandered on, mechanically, noticing nothing until he
had nearly reached No. 200. Some one called him. It was little Ned Graham, who, as usual, was
getting pieces of boards and chips at a new building which was going up. Very thin indeed was
his clothing, and far from healthy were his looks; but the natural buoyancy, which even the
hard hand of poverty could not entirely crush, remained, and his whole countenance lighted
up at the sight of his friend William.

"What now, Ned?" said the latter as a ray of cheerfulness shot over his sad heart, on seeing
the happiness meeting with himself gave to the boy; "where are you going so far from home,
bare-footed and half bare-legged, on such a cold day as this?"

"My feet are a little red," said Ned, looking down at his red-hued supporters; "but I don't
mind it much, when I can get such heaps of wood for the carrying. There was a fire up our way
not long ago, and I got ever so much. We have a great pile now, and grandmother can keep the
fire going. I want to carry all I can before the snow comes, for I don't expect to have any
shoes. But why have you stayed away so long? Mrs. Bradley gave us the pennies you sent, but
grandmother said she 'wanted to see yourself to thank you.'"

"I have done nothing worth thanks, Ned," said William. "I only wish I could."

"Grandmother said you had been a good friend to us, although you are but a boy, and only a
shoemaker's ''prentice,'" rejoined Ned; "for you did not only send us the pennies, but Mrs.
Bradley too. She has been so good to us; and when we thank her, she says we ought rather to
thank you. She gave me these trousers; and although they are too short, I do not care for that,
or that the street boys call me 'duck legs.'"

"It is our heavenly Father whom you ought to thank, rather than either of us," added William,
not noticing the last part of the speech; "but here is No. 200; stay; let me see. I do believe
it is the very house in front of which I dropped the shoes; that is certainly the window where
the old gentleman stood."

He rung the bell at the basement door as he spoke. A voice from within bade him enter. He did
so, and found himself in a neat room, furnished with many books. A middle-aged gentleman sat
at a table writing, but laid down his pen in order to see what the intruder wanted. William
stated his errand.

"Ah, yes; shoes," said the gentleman; "I do not know anything about them; my wife is not at
home, but you can come again to-morrow, and see what she says. You look tired; there is a shilling
for you."

William took the money, but as he did so blushed deeply, and seemed about to return it.

"Why, what is the matter, boy?" asked the gentleman; "do not you think it enough?"

"O no, sir; indeed not that; indeed it is more than enough; but--"

"But what?" inquired the gentleman.

"I do not want to take it now, so I will send somebody--a little boy--for it to-morrow."

The gentleman, who now began to suspect that all was not right, looked very grave, as he repeated
the words, "You will send for it to-morrow. Boy, tell me what this means. It is certainly very
strange behaviour. Nay, you cannot go until you tell me."

William saw it was best to tell the truth, and he did so in as straightforward a way as possible;
and stating at the close that as he believed he should be questioned whether or not he had
received money, he preferred the gentleman should give it to a boy whom he would send, so that
he might be able to say with truth he had not received any money.

"Your motive is a good one," said the gentleman; "but you must be very careful, lest, while
you are serving your fellow-creatures, you offend God. Truth in all things, my boy; let the
truth always be spoken, and leave the issue to One who is himself the Truth. No matter under
how amiable a pretext any one violates the divine law; it is no less a violation of that pure
and holy law; and although there are many who consider that only the falsely spoken word which
passes over the lips is a lie, there are many other ways of outraging the truth. The acted
lie, perhaps more common than the spoken, is not less hateful in the sight of Him who is of
purer eyes than to behold sin without abhorrence; and all deception, however skilfully veiled
from human perception, is falsehood in his sight."

"I am sorry, sir," said William; "but I did not know how else to do; I did not know that would
be lying."

"It would be a shifting of the truth, an evasion," said Mr. Stewart. "If you hope to run your
earthly career with safety or success, let truth be the foundation on which you build it. Falsehood
must have an end, but truth will triumph. Then why distort, or seek to disguise it, since the
Scriptures tell us that 'obeying the truth purifies the soul?' 'Who shall abide in God's holy
hill? who shall dwell in his tabernacle? He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness,
and speaketh the truth in his heart.' Here is your money, to do with as you please: you can
send the boy, however, to me; if he is as poor as you say, he must be looked after." Yerbales When the people are in season, are engaged in profit of the grass,
as in everything else, each which may or reach their forces, and so in other tasks under agriculture,
which is intended for half the time, and the other half to come to their particular fields, and
provide their livelihood. But although regularly said that the Indians left them half the time for
their particular work, as the community curtailed many days, so just be left with the third
part for them.

Indian women regularly engaged in spinning for the community, which are dealt two work week,
or three when the need calls. In each task are given ten ounces cotton to bring three of thread,
and try not otherwise occupied, but in the chances of tents and the like, intended for them,
if not all, the most robust and are not pregnant or parenting, and hoeing will not be exercised
in spinning.

Indian crafts, such as linen weavers, carpenters, rosarieros and others, always remain more
out of habit than useful work in their offices on time they must do for the community, and the remainder
going to their farms, which must have them, otherwise it could not exist. Only more weavers remain
in their offices, which is not allowed to depart until the conclusion of the piece started,
and then given five yards of cloth and one or two weeks off, to go to their farms, and then return
to their occupation.

A people who have 300 Indians working, and corresponding number of Indian boys and girls, with
an administrator of conduct, you can regulate the harvest of a good year in the following fruits:
800 pounds of cotton, as many of grass, 100 bushels of wheat, 200 of all other species of grain,
including corn, 50 pounds of snuff, as many groups, and 15,000 yards of linen. As you know,
with the exception of the paintings, that yarn is the work of the Indian, everything else can
be verified with 25 or 50 laborers distributed, mostly in the villages whose land is very fertile,
and abounding of oxen and all measures favorable to the tasks, but spend only strip time, as manifest
to you.

As the rooms are the main nerve that ensures the survival of peoples, has placed on them and
put the chief care, and in fact has achieved the most are in an advantageous compared to state
that now had ten years and, while admiring good governance are now compared to then aged, who can deny that
it is perjudicialísimo the large number of Indians in every room? At least there are 30 Indians,
which their women, boys and girls regularly go 70 people, but do not have to look up to 20,000
animals of all species, when it comes to a dozen Spanish laborers would be well served by such
a stay. So consumed every year more than 400 cattle, calves out of stealing, and just have
to be many, when it never passes err the sixth of the cattle there, even though I could reach
at least the quarter. But there is no discretion to remedy this disorder in these circumstances,
because, of wanting to push, then experiencing dropouts.

Each week is given, two or three days, serving of meat in town, according to the possibility
him. Regularly killed for every one hundred people a bull, and offal of all distributed boys and girls.

In
addition to the animals that are distributed on ration, are killed
each day one or two cattle for daily consumption of the priests, administrators,
patients, mayor, stewards, of offices, and usually the servants of
the college which are in large numbers.

Several animals are also consumed in the tasks of community because
they are given regular lunch at noon, or leave work time, mostly when
the task is somewhat heavy.

So that a people which has 300 Indians can work regular consumption 2,000 cattle a year.

Similarly all that collect beans are consumed to feed the boys and girls and supply some to plant.

In
the villages which are well attended each year are given clothing
for boys and girls the disabled, old men and women, and regularly
shout them naked, which are those and those that are of benefit to
himself or to the community, whose relief, and the shrouds, they also
may regulate the use of an Indian village in the number suggested
at 4,000 yards a year.

They are also given ration of grass, but the people who do not pass more than 300 arrobas year.

Other fruits and very little effect enjoyed by Indians wheat, snuff, honey, sugar benefited or purchase,
edible Buenos Aires next purchase with the wealth of the Indians, all consumed in the main
house, only the mayor, the town hall and patients enjoy some shortness
of these effects.

This is what the people better groomed and better attend to the Indians, distribute annually, whose
fruit, value regulated prices uploaded by these peoples can up to 5,000 pesos, which, adding
the actual taxes, tithes, administrator salary and expenses of the
church, may be counted all the expenditure at 8,000 pesos per year.

A village of 300 working Indians may have 1,200 souls among young and old, with which bearing in mind
that from five years to work up all they can, and that boys and girls
do not have days off can be regulated in 800 workers employed half
of the year to benefit the community, dividing among them the 8,000
pesos cost accurate, up to 10 pesos each.

But what can you exercise on an Indian or India in this province so fertile and such proportions,
that working with a median application does not produce its work at least 40 or 50 dollars
in half a year? Add you that the product of the stays, reaching 20,000 head of cattle, has to
pay, out of expenses and costs 3,000 pesos at least every year and you will find pre-empting the
people is, or because of these natural inaction is great, or because consumption and waste
from the main house is large either case, as manifest in place.

So far I have referred to you just the way in which govern these people without express the humiliation,
oppression and violence suffered by the natives, all result needs of the community living subjects,
this matter is of such consideration should treated by other more eloquent pen than mine, but
I write only for you, you know put in better order than I will Noticiaro misalignment. Again
take up the thread from the outset, for clarity and intelligence.

Since the owners of each village government by a secular administrator to take care temporality,
and two religious doctrine to the Indians, were administered sacraments and serve the direction
of their souls, divided command, before was one person who cared for the spiritual and temporal.
These men were elected and appointed officials as they found, most
were very young men, and without prudence or knowledge.

The Indians, accustomed to obey only their priests, they looked at first with indifference administrators
as dictated to them, so that nothing was done without first the father. These principles were
born the great discord among priests and administrators, and contributed largely to the ruin
of nations, as Don Francisco Bruno complaint de Zavala in the representation made to His Majesty
the year 1774. The priests were homeowners major colleges named, not allowing them to live in managers;
did the same thing with the gardens and orchards, all intended to provide at its discretion; and
as the Indians were on their side getting as they pleased. Procurose remedy these reckless
claims of some religious orders of government, but not a step ahead of it without causing the
Indians many vexations and annoyances; because addicts always obey the religious, not to influence
them ceasing their maximum breach of peace, the rigor needed to use them to hold them to the
government.

Consiguiose at last made known to the Indians only in things pertaining to salvation should pay careful
heed to their priests, and the rest to their managers, but not This cessation of discord between
administrators and priests, because as each other live in the same house and with some dependency
in office, never made up in their distributions. The priests wanted the Indians attended every
day at Mass and the rosary, when they wished, which was often quite
unexpectedly, administrators it prevented, sometimes rightly and sometimes
without, and what was that the priest was sent spank those who obeyed
the administrator and the administrator to those who obeyed the priest;
and each other punishments were executed in the wretched Indians,
no more guilt to obey to better accommodate them to obey, even the
magistrates and council members themselves were not free of such abuses,
which not infrequently were beaten and abused by priests and administrators,
not knowing which party snuggle.

This persecution is not so much in the day, and, although time and again experienced, not to fuss.

Minor
and specific grounds were lighted every day, yet light, great discomfort between priests and
administrators, as people have an obligation to feed the priests, and this is done by administrators,
they, being at odds as regularly happens, have the opportunity to take revenge on the priest making him
wait, giving the worst and low, and other means dictated by the spirit of revenge. It is not
always right priests to complain, they ask that the food is so abundant that they about to
give eating, in addition to the boys who serve them, six or eight often added to them.

As in the villages there are no teachers of trades that work for those who want to buy their
work, or even a pawn can cahoots without reporting to the administrator, because everyone subject
to the community, nor the Indians know how to sell their work, nor is how to meet the precise
needs, the practice is observed: if an employee needs a pair of shoes, called the shoemaker,
gives the material and then tells him shoes, he makes and carries
it and if you give something the recipient, and if it is not asking
for nothing, as does with all other needs.

If the priest took the shoemaker or other, is wrong with the manager, if it knows, they immediately
dispatched to the work of community, that slows or do not work, then you know the cure, and
is armed zambra, and all the result pay the Indian or Indians, who pursued because others protected.

Although the ordinances are prevented for the church service is intended for a sexton and three
singers, what is done is that these ministries were occupied by two
older sacristanes with three or four children and ten or twelve boys
to acolytes, with over an infinite of musicians who, although the
latter does not cease to engage in other things, it is always necessary
have some on hand for what is offered, and not being ready, or just
seeming to cure those attending, and there fight on that strip to
ruin the divine worship.

Also there are common on some priests want to be busy all day and acolytes sacristans on their
behalf.

Indian goods are treated as their persons, distributed them with the greatest shortage among
the Indians in need, and even sick, spent with the greatest profusion, no Spanish as only between
employees but also with how many passengers arrive, and perhaps for no reason people stop in the
days they want, providing few comforts they crave, what they receive as a matter of justice that is owed,
and Doing so will not show managers complaining of not being treated (say) as they should,
and although the government has made some provision for this, have no effect assortment.

Employees regularly have one or more Indians to take care of every kind of fruit or effects of those
who work or benefit, but yet it is amazing what is wasted and lost, either through incompetence or
neglect of the Indians, or abandonment of the administrators. Who would believe that reaching
2,000, and even more, the animals that are consumed each year in a village expended all of them
leather bags and other ministries? Well this is so, all leave lost and can sell your benefit and
enhance the assets of the community. The The same is true with everything else, finding means
to remedy.

For the administrator and religious, which has the obligation to feed people, there are occupied
within the school more than 50 people. You will seem weighting because it is not, and if you
do not mind: for one or two wheat almudes kneaded each day are used two or three atahoneros,
where atahona, that where there is not used at least six and four or six bakers, in the kitchen
used at least six, and if the religious cooked, set aside many others, two gardeners at least,
two water carriers, four or more of refectoleros and one or two caregivers for each individual
horse. All week they alternate with other many, and neither work for the community because the
bye week is to them; add to what you guys servants who each have
two at least, and you will see what counts as bulging out.

Besides this, every Saturday is to bring each person a stick to the wood consumption in the week.

Which
also indicates the ease with which dissipate the assets of the Indians is in the annual festival
of the patron saints of the villages. Not lower than is spent in the most reduced value from
300 to 400 pesos, and they enjoyed the least are the Indians, to which only gives flesh in abundance
these days, and some short fiddle that is distributed; but for the religious, administrators
and others who attend Spanish as well as for lieutenant governor or, if they attend, there are
abundant and delicious food, and gifts called tupambaes.

This custom is established or abuse of, and practiced in the time of the Jesuits, and although since
then I was disgusted and gave it to understand, as I was requested to continue in whole method
of my predecessor, and I saw in the villages and the immediate command of the Governor as
in other lieutenancy practiced the same, I did not see fit to make me Quiet on one thing that has
infused the Indians, who make a great gift to the holy from that day and shared some of their
assets among those who do not need it, and it would be better give it to the needy, and are
offended if anyone refuses to receive your gift, in short, This goes on until God provides a remedy.

Many
other evils and prejudices are still the Indians and their property in their persons, but not
so common and often are ignored, but it must be noted that the damage mentioned so far, but have
their origin in the attachment to the community, increase the has led to the negligence or
bad conversation of some of those who manage and direct, and so has
not been in all the towns like disorder, but some more than others.

But who now shall speak common to all peoples, and in my mind irremediable although in all
ministries, which employ men desirable, because these evils are inseparable from the state
they are reduced by the community, and may only free himself of them out of this total extinction.

After
the boys enter the age of 4 to 5 years, and takes charge of the community, which has appointed two
or more Indians to name mayors and secretaries of the boys; they have booked for, and take care
of gathering all day in the morning early, perhaps at dawn, take them to the door of the church
to pray, there they can to Mass is said, and then distribute them to their jobs or occupations
are identified, and leaving the town apprentices early music and lyrics, the weavers' and other
offices, drive the remaining tents, or the work they have said, to 2 or 3 in the afternoon again
and have brought together, until, having prayed the rosary in the church, allow them to return
to their homes.

The choice of occupations or places that are given to boys, it is not the will of its parents,
but of those who govern or in need, for music it chooses the master
those that seem most on purpose, the priests used the best seems to
acolytes and his servants, the same in other trades and occupations,
without their parents is the discretion of disgusted.

But they do not cause any feeling, because, as they were raised with the same education, and know no
other, living as detached from their children when they arrive to that age is not no care for them,
or try pointing the Christian doctrine and morality, or the food and clothing. If you do not
come home at the time that release their caregivers, either the requested or sought, even if they
were fleeing the town diligence to find them and bring them, they are considered careless of
everything, and still have worthy of rebuke if they took charge that care. The same goes for
girls, which also are in charge of two or more old Indians with the same title of mayors and
secretaries; them to ten or twelve years have no other occupation than hoeing, picking cotton
harvest time and other agricultural occupations for their age; and
on reaching that age is applied (when there is not much to do in the
farms) to Hilen, without caring for any other teaching them, for,
although the seam is so characteristic of sex is rare that even poorly
known sewing, and these offices are regularly sacristans and musicians
everything else is done with girls as with boys, until they marry.

You already know that this education is impossible to maintain honesty, even with idea of ​​this
virtue, and lost to the native modesty, walk freely where they want, without their parents being
hindered because they do not have power in them very young prostitutes, and delivered to the vice of
incontinence, so that when they marry and are relaxed, and even loss of fertility, thus significantly
undermining the population.

As in all times has been so prevalent among the natives on flog, so
has lost the horror of flogging, punishing both as those who are punished,
or that see them, any motion will cause whipping, flogging or execute
him, and so punish with the greatest inhumanity to creatures in all
occupations to the audience, accustomed thus to suffer with the greatest
indifference flogging, in any time or age.

With this separation or alienation experienced by parents of children, and in his imagination
have it so early that raise them from birth to one destination, has no place in them the love I
see in parents who have grown up and raise their children with the education system and are usually
among the Spanish, and so, even if they see abuse their children, they get little or no care, and
just as children watch their parents, and that neither need nor expect anything from them.

After the kids reach the age of getting married, not much retard check, and because their parents
or tell the priest to marry, or because the stimulus of lust encourage them to do so. Most are
married with telling them to marry, since even in this have such a captive's will not dare to make
that choice to be his wife.

Since getting married and he and she, out of the power they had and enter another. At Secretaries
of men played since then have in your registry to male and female to it.


A few minutes' walk brought William to the room occupied by old Mrs. Graham. It was a poor
place, in a basement half under ground. Cold and damp, it was altogether unsuitable for an
invalid; but she said she liked it, for the other dwellers in the house, mostly washer-women,
were decently-behaved people, and as kind to her as their means would allow them to be. Suffering
so much from rheumatism that she was confined to her bed, she was, however, not idle, but propped
up and busy knitting, when William entered.

"Ah, ah! William Raymond, is that you?" said she; "come in and tell us why you have stayed
away so long."

This was soon explained, and the treasures exhibited. The miniature Christmas tree was lighted
up, and made to stand, by some process of childish ingenuity, on the table; the shoes which
William had made out of Jem Taylor's "upper leather" were displayed, and, on being tried on,
were found to fit; and, last of all, the treasures of the basket were spread forth. It was
long since such a meal had been eaten in that lowly room, or since its inmates had been so
cheerful; and, dear reader, what was the cost of the whole? Happiness can be bestowed at small
expense, and there are none so poor that they cannot give it. True charity, which some call
"the first-born of religion," makes others' wants their own, and--

                             "Amid life's quests
  There seems that worthiest one, to do men good."

The old grandmother looked with great interest on the sports of the children, and joined in
the praises Ned bestowed on his semi-new shoes. It seemed surprising to the latter that his
friend Bill could accomplish a task so wonderful as to make a pair of shoes; and while he danced
round the room in perfect delight, he begged his grandmother to put him at once to a shoemaker,
so that he, too, might do men's work.

William stood by the bedside of the aged invalid, and watched her faded lips as they moved
in grateful prayer. His whole soul, filled with the secret pleasure of a generous act, was
yet more moved by the blessings invoked on him by one so old, and, there was no doubt, truly
sincere. It seemed as if nothing could increase his present happiness.

"Where did you get all these nice things?" asked the old woman; "this is an unexpected feast
for me."

William, taking no more credit than truth demanded, explained how he had proceeded,--some,
the smallest portion, was purchased, the other was from the kindness of others.

"Say rather the kindness of Providence," replied the old woman. "The One who provides for the
sparrow put it into their hearts, so let us thank him first of all; and for you, my good boy,
may the blessing of God, which alone maketh rich and addeth no sorrow, rest upon you for ever."

There is a world of meaning in that simple petition; and if the prayer of the righteous will
from the lowliest hovel climb to heaven's height and bring a blessing down, he was certain
to receive in answer a greater and more precious treasure than the gold of Ophir.

Greatly did our little shoemaker enjoy his childish liberty on this evening, which passed away
too rapidly for him. All enjoyment must have an end, and although by no means wearied of it,
he was at once ready to go home when Mrs. Graham reminded him of the hour. He ran off at full
speed, trusting to be at home before the usual time for shutting up the house, and had proceeded
more than half way, when the city clocks striking ten changed his late happy mood to one of
apprehension. Mr. Walters, he knew, would not wait a moment, even on Christmas eve, for anybody,
and he trembled at the thought of what the morning might bring.

His fears were not groundless, for he found the front door locked, and he feared to be obliged
to pass the night in the open air. Great was his embarrassment; what was he to do? who would
aid him? He thought of his friend Thomas Burton, the watchman; he might have a key which would
open the dead latch, but he was already on his round, which, although in the same district,
was at a distant point.

The moon was shining brightly, making objects appear almost as distinct as by daylight The
crowd had gradually fallen away, until the streets were almost empty; and as he sat in lonely
self-communion on the door-step, the increasing cold warned him that he could not remain there
until morning. Exercise was better than inaction; he thought he would walk up the street, and
meet, perhaps, Thomas, or else some other guardian of the night, who would advise him what
to do. But the watchmen seemed all to have left this part of the city, for none appeared. As
he was still turning over plan after plan for effecting an entrance, it occurred to him that
from a shed in the rear of the building, which could be gained from a narrow street or alley
running parallel with it, he could enter by an unshuttered window, provided the sash was not
fastened down. He resolved upon trying, and turning into one of the public streets, which would
bring him sooner to the place desired than that by which he had come, he walked swiftly onward.
He had not gone far before some object glancing brightly in the moonlight attracted his observation.

He took it up, and found it to be a small steel-clasped purse; and from some indications about
it, he concluded it had been dropped by a child. The next movement was to open it. Two little
gold dollars first glittered before his eyes, then some small silver coin, and last of all
a five-dollar gold piece carefully wrapped in paper.

His first feeling was rapture: if what he had done for the Grahams had brought so much happiness,
both to them and himself, would it not be increased ten-fold now when owner of such wealth?
But then the thought occurred, "It is not mine; somebody must have lost it; somebody maybe
that was poor; yes, I will give it back again; to-morrow I will ask Thomas Burton to inquire
in the neighbourhood and find out the owner." This seemed the only proper course, and putting
the purse in his pocket, he went on the way proposed to himself, and succeeded in gaining entrance
to his room without disturbing the family. Notwithstanding the severe exertions and excitement
of the day, he found himself unable to sleep; racking pains shot through his limbs, and feverish
oppression prevented rest until near morning, when he fell into the unrefreshing stupor, rather
than sleep, produced by exhaustion.

From this he was aroused by the usual call to get up and make the fire. He obeyed, although
his aching head and prostrated strength scarcely permitted a movement. Serious sickness, long
threatening, had at length seized him; and having with the utmost effort dragged himself down
to the kitchen, he was barely able to kindle the fire, before he fell fainting on the floor,
where Mrs. Walters found him.

Virago and shrew as she was, she could not look at him as he lay there so death-like, without
a feeling of compassion. She had him carried to his room in the attic, where she attended him
with perhaps as much sympathy as was compatible with her rude nature. For many days he lay
in a dreaming kind of stupor; yet the images which forced themselves on his mind, although
vague and fitful, were by no means painful; sickness had overtaken him in the midst of right
doing, and the impression left by the high and holy duty in which he had last been engaged
remained, to shed an influence stronger than the pressure caused by bodily pain. "Fear not,
I am with thee; be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee; I will help and
uphold thee," were words which floated continually in his mind, although seemingly insensible
to all outward objects.

For many days little hope of recovery was given by the physician, called in at the pressing
instance of Thomas Burton, who declared he would pay the expense himself; and Mr. Walters,
dreading the consequences to his own reputation should the boy die without medical aid, had
consented. Skilful treatment, youth, and a good constitution, effected a change which, with
good nursing, would have rapidly restored him to health; the latter, however, was entirely
wanting, Mrs. Walters believing that if she kept from scolding, and brought him warm drinks,
she laid "Bill" under life-long obligation to her for good nursing.

On the day before New-Year's he was altogether better; he could think of previous occurrences,
and spoke with Thomas Burton of many things, but not until the evening of that day, when Jem
Taylor got up to see him, had he thought of the purse, which was still in the pocket of his vest.

The presence of Jem, as if associated with money, somehow recalled the recollection of his
finding the treasure; and he could not, weak and unable to consider consequences as he was,
refrain from telling him all about it, and begged him to inquire in the neighbourhood who had
lost it.

"You are green as ever, Bill," said Jem, who, nevertheless, was full of his own kind of sympathy
for our hero; "you might as well look for a needle in a hay-stack as for the owner of a purse
in New York. The only way is to advertise it, and make whoever answers describe it. But if
I were in your place I would keep it. Finders are keepers; but if you don't like to spend it
all yourself or change it, just give it to me. The one who has lost it may be rich, and by
this time has forgotten it. You are now recovering from sickness, and will want oranges and
such things; I can get all that you ought to have, and nobody be any the wiser."

Poor William, weak and sick; the tempter was again there--a messenger of Satan ready to overthrow
the faith which until now had sustained him. "Finding is not stealing," was the specious whisper;
"and many keep what they find."

For a moment only he swerved. He spoke no word; and while Jem watched his pale countenance,
as it changed with the varied emotions which were struggling in his heart, he could scarcely
understand the feelings which swayed his own. The conflict was severe, but short, as it always
is where strict integrity has been the ruling principle, and truth the bulwark. The flush faded
from the brow; leaving it deadly pale, as he firmly said,--

"No, Jem, no; I will not do it. Let me die, but I will not sin against God."

Exhausted by the effort he had made, he burst into a violent fit of weeping, alarming Jem greatly,
who feared for the results. But tears were soothing to the sick boy; for tears are said to
make the depth of grief seem less, and prove a balm to the soul. None are wholly evil, and
some touch of nature now smote the heart of the reckless journeyman for a moment, as he once
more recognised the holy majesty of virtue exhibited in a child. But how many thoughts can
flash upon the soul in an instant! In that short space a picture of his own life was placed
before his mental vision; and as he contrasted his own course with that of the sufferer before
him, he felt, for the moment, willing to change places with him. He waited until the strong
burst of feeling had passed over, and his intended victim once more lay still and death-like
before him. He dared venture no further, and his eyes were something moist, and his voice assumed
a softer tone, as he rose to take leave for the night.

"Billy," said he, "you are a good boy; I wish I was half as good, but I know I need not try.
But I still am of the mind that if I had found that money I would have a right to spend it;
but I won't say any more, for I see you are very weak. Can I do anything for you before I go?"

"You can," replied William; "ask Thomas--no, he is not at home--tell Mrs. Burton to send him
in the morning."

"I believe the old man is your spiritual adviser," returned Jem; "but I will do as you wish,
and come again in the morning; so good-night."

Left to himself, the sick boy almost immediately fell asleep, or rather into the heavy stupor
produced by exhaustion, and which does not shut out the sense of painful realities which surround. I have no doubt
to ensure that even the principles, would not drop the annual increases in the thirty villages
in the province of 300,000 pesos, and I found this sum settlement of government general of the province
as well as particular to each people.

To establish the proposed arrangement was necessary to the principles which de Buenos Aires Some
people send a lot of money, even 2 or 3,000 pesos for each village, Without it nothing would
be verifiable, and being sure thing that many people are not there equity, the royal treasury
could suplírseles to snuff account that would benefit later. To this decision I think there
would be no pregnancy, because the mercy of His Majesty crossing in the new ordinance their real assets
to help the needy Indians, supplying them by way of loan, without interest, they need to promote
them, delivering them and of the divisions that suffered before. And although that provision is
directed to assist individuals, and this the common, as in common include individuals, should be
by the same, taking it the advantage of greater security in the collection, which I the most
backward village concept, the second or third year, and would have satisfied what had supplied.

Having to be so vast management factors, and these subjects, as expressed, I think debérseles
noted ten percent of the profits which will be at the factory, that is the same as indicated by law
to guardians of minors by the administration of its goods, but should not be allowed any money
or merchandise is special in itself, nor intermediary, nor any thing that use of the factory,
except the room, which should be the principal houses, not anything else. And if for would
ease the work they wanted to have a dependent, was Spanish or Indian, should pay for the work
that have gone on their profits, not understanding that the who run the grocery stores, foremen
or other employees in the benefit, preservation and increased the factory, because they, like
all other laborers and workers, they should pay their salaries and wages of the management
body, as they worked to their advantage and utility, and all other expenses that were offered
in the village that had no relationship or are intended to benefit the assets of the factory, the
person should be the utility that this corresponded, such as food and costumes of old handicapped,
sick priest poor salaries of justices, actual payment of taxes, tithes and any useful or pious work
to be established for the benefit of the common, as we will express where appropriate.

With the allocation of ten percent to the factors I think people would
not be wanting useful that serve them, considering that the peoples
of a middling amount at least to 10,000 pesos in profits, as evidenced
by, and they will correspond to factor 1,000 pesos.

And although some do not amount to as much, always had the hope of promotions as merit and
circumstances of each, to reach the most profitable. Well it would be desirable that any so-called
ascent without having first served five years in the occupied village, being convenient mudasen
not very often.

For the Indian steward of each village were applied to the performance of this important commission,
and had no reason to apologize for any embezzlement, it should be
noted two percent of the profits of the factory.

And appears quite what I have specified in order to economic government
of the people, and assets of their communities, so that you know the
utilities would continue to be, way to express to you that I understand
should be established in general province.

For the newest provisions of His Majesty are thirty people in this province subject to the
jurisdiction only governor with them in the military and justice
causes, leaving the two branches of police and real estate by the
Governors mayors of Buenos Aires and Paraguay, each in the district
of his bishopric.

And because I have not seen but in passing the ordinances, nor is my intention to express to
you the convenience and desconveniencias than his total adherence to these peoples could follow,
depending on circumstances of them, I will tell you what I think should, through the knowledge that
with practice I have purchased. Although always keep the spirit and provisions of the new ordinances,
general as to what their establishment in this colony.

According to the knowledge that assists me in the situation of this province, marriage, relationship
and dependency some people have with others, and other circumstances that are very noticeable,
and it would Referring neat, I think that the best thing would be
if they remained united all thirty people, at least twenty-six, excluding
or separating the four most immediate Paraguay, which are Santiago,
Santa Rosa, Our Lady of Fe and San Ignacio Guazú, who have little
or no relation with others, and are best placed to add to that province,
and were ruled by a governor-mayor who had charge of all classes in
the same manner as other newly created, with power to appoint sub-delegation
in the parts as needed, for to my knowledge, one should be put an
the six towns comprising the department of San Miguel, and one in
four of Yapeyú; and if the people of Santiago department were to be
subject to this province governance, should be put there another,
and the remaining villages would be all subjects the immediate command
of the governor, because they are near Candelaria, which should be
the capital.

The limits of this province, she felt even in all the thirty towns, I dies should be as follows:
on the northern side, Tebicuari River from its headwaters Ñembucú to the estuary, on the west, the
estuary to the Paraná, crossing over below the falls, following the Ibera Lagoon, including land
that is the band West of the lagoon and its slopes fall to it, and following a search for
the origin Miriñay River, which may serve as a boundary on that side to Uruguay, crossing a
seek Cuarey mouth of the river, which may serve as limits on the south side, following to its origin
and going in between the headwaters of Black River and looking Ibicuy Portugal's borders, they
serve the term of this band.

Excluding the four villages mentioned above, could serve as limits on the band's north, the Monte
Grande de Santiago, and its marshes and swamps, which are to enter
the Falls in the Paraná, and otherwise as aforesaid.

But, as I believe, will these people in a few years make such overtaking I judge may be subject
to a bishopric erected them with incomes ping that of Paraguay, and then another district or
division should be limits, I will propose to you for consideration and tell me what you think,
because if that was the case.

I can not seem to hide the convenience and utility of the latter river. The Current city and its
jurisdiction have their treatment and turn in these people and keep
some useful correspondence dependence and its business and trade,
the profits would be higher each other if they were under a single
government.

This province borders the Portugal domains across the band from the east, and in times of
disagreement with that crown not have the governor in that province but Indians to fend off
invasions, and Buenos Aires must send you the aid of Spanish people,
and having under his command to Corrientes, had in them a speedy and
effective relief for any emergency.

The drawbacks to this division may be offered ignore them, and thus manifest only conveniences that
you know, as I reach.

Is so short that these natives pay tribute to His Majesty, that even
in the day is not enough to cover salaries and synods accruing to
employees that the charge of the exchequer, though they are very moderate.

And if you put a governor mayor with the authority such employment is, would need to assign
a salary provided, and would be taxed more the royal treasury, and so it does not happen, I
think it would be best and the governor subdelegates as they pay their salaries from the profits
resulting to the factories; then, having to address the new form of government for good and
utility of natural these costs would be as regular their benefit be established, mostly being found
so relieved in taxes. And so I think the utilities of all peoples bring forth out of two and
a half percent, and distribute them in this way: the governor-half percent than surrender
all people, with more than two per cent of the people who were only in their care, and two percent
subdelegados of who produced the their immediate care. Thus each other would seek the advancement
of the peoples, for claimed it theirs.

Should the governor or lieutenant had a consultant lawyer, an assistant and clerk government, and
also had a protector of Indians and a tax lawyer, otherwise could not be a good way this government,
and to pay these five places could be Take three percent of profits, pointing to each one what
they seem appropriate.

It would also be desirable to be bred a minister of the royal treasury, with the necessary dependent
actual salary paid, to tend to the recovery of real rights, real taxes and other belonging to His
Majesty, and especially the tobacco industry, which here are better than in Paraguay, and could
anticipate their cultivation and under high magnification of real estate.

The town of Candelaria is very suitable for their situation and provide for capital the province,
and it was with more luster and brilliance could be obtained from Her Majesty the grace that
awarded him the title and privileges of city, thus getting there
courts and other ministries that after say, I have no doubt soon be
increased population with the many Spanish who avecindarían there.

For people flourish in the sciences and the arts would be more convenient than the town of Candelaria
establish a school for letters and a hospice for arts; the first
should be taught from the first letters to theology, jurisprudence,
scholastic medicine and other sciences should be had to teach these
natives with all other parts of education and police, with young people
in close as to college, no jostling with each other, discarded or
not acquire the hardiness that this is raised, and were later useful
in their villages, without losing the love country, as would happen
if the bring forth out to learn outside of the province.

In the hospice learn arts and crafts more useful and necessary in these villages, putting skilled
teachers, and which are suited for later distributed in their villages, working perfectly
the works of his powers and could teach others.

The libraries of all people could form a very good school of Candelaria
and leaving in each village those books that priests could serve to
the very exercise of his ministry, send the rest to Buenos Aires so
that there they sold, even at a low price, and amount to buy modern
works that were required for the school library.

It would be good in the capital had a seminar to teach girls all work of their sex, and especially
the government of a house and family, the upbringing and education of children and women for
others, and so to them, as the boys should perfectly instructed in
the Castilian language, forming, for everything and have got due effect,
a good education and putting all the responsibility of a director
which suited.

The rents for these houses should keep out of the profits of all peoples, taking three percent,
and applying the same purpose also the value of the works to be working at the hospice, and the product
of the passage of cattle crossing the Parana Candelaria making it necessary step and removing
the traveling on the other hand, and if the government was some other branch or discretion,
may apply to the same end.

In each village should be sent each year to Candelaria, at least 4 boys and 2 girls always preferring
the sons of chiefs, for them there would be for that each one on purpose or had inclination,
and for every one who send, you should see with one or two dollars
per month, or what should be had by signaling for help food and clothes
for them and them, that everyone should have decently.

Also useful is sought royal permission to found convents in Candelaria could the three religions,
Santo Domingo, San Francisco and Merced, that the religious of them could occupy the chairs of the school
and practice all other matters concerning their school and the salvation
of souls, but to admit to the habit by the little Indians who were
able to do so.

Very convenient thing would be that the capital be established a provincial board, composed the governor,
his advisor, the royal treasury minister, the prosecutor and protector, and if includes some of the
sub-delegation, to take place in it, voting or not, as seemed convenient.

At this meeting and would try everything pertaining to real estate, assets of people and police
of them, giving every part of the junta superior de Buenos Aires, so that, seen there, it is determined
as appropriate.

This meeting presented the factors accounts for its consideration,
and with the advice guard, for tax and the report of the provincial
board, be referred to higher of Buenos Aires for approval.

The Buenos Aires attorneys would be convenient to surrender their accounts every two years, giving
people from those who were dependent, and the factors they would invest in theirs, as industry
dependent on them, or exposing them saying what he pleased, and the
provincial board would examine the factor, and would turn, as already
stated.

All peoples are beaded earrings, even from the time of expatriates and every day more than its
liquidation is impossible without the government can separate hindrance offered when it comes to
fit, and they pave the provincial board all paths and settled on
the best way possible.

The provincial board would fix the costs each year people would have in patron saint festivals,
the days of the King and his birthday, and other solutions; as well as the same ordinary or extraordinary
expenditure of each, giving the way in delivering, spend and give accounts should be observed.

For
the Indians were proclaiming to work on what was most useful to the
province, real treasury and to them, could have the same provincial
board in each of the villages should be brought more awards to apply
and advance in the occupations or more branches useful, as practiced
in Spain in real economic societies of friends the country, getting
these awards from mutual funds, according to the peoples they had,
and giving all part of the upper board for approval.

Arranged in the way that the government of these peoples, it seems
that objects to Governor should direct your care with particular are:

First,
it was necessary to attend to the governor that the Indians were not
missing by factors at all, as it is explained that their wages they
were just paid, which sells the maintenance and other services necessary
to preserve and comfort with greater equity, and that they bought
and how much they wished they had sold their fair prices, making tariffs
for everything so that each year, February or March, when the crops
have been tested and is available to future crops, is publish tariffs
for the following year and the prices at which they had to buy everything
they collect and benefits as those who had to sell, which, being Wholesale
sales, did not exceed the price at which they bought from a fifteen
percent, and less than twenty-five.

And rightly train would address what fruits are more use and need in the province, which is
applied over the Indians and they cost less acquiring job or benefits, which are more trade or
value outside of the towns; and seen it all, and known the advantages, disadvantages, application
or desaplicación by crops previous fix tariffs, giving more value
to the fruits that were applied unless the Indians to their culture,
and are of greatest need or use in trade, and lowering to those who
have abounded and were less necessary, in consultation with the provincial
board for greater accuracy, and giving of all to the top of Buenos
Aires for approval.

Second, take care of the governor that the Indians were not prevented the planting and make
their farms where they liked and accommodating, as practiced now,
therefore, having have used all fields, it is necessary that at least
the early years continue This same practice until the experience makes
them know they need not all have them; So with the money to acquire
their wages, or in other occupations, buy what is necessary others,
and would be detrimental to them if they clog the plantings where
and how they wanted them.

But they would know that, to acquire ownership of the land who holds, and that no one could
deprive them of them were to be submitted to the governor asking intended to occupy the land,
and being provided to its forces, and not being busy with another title, they could dispense conditioned
Title property charging them that within three years he had to take
pot plants, orange, lemons, peaches, cotton, sugar cane and others
that the government may deem advisable, and of not having them at
the end of those three years, could anyone else asking, and you would
be given, but if the plants and had as it should, after three years
would be given title freehold for him, his children and descendants,
and so that he could sell or dispose as best he was, and acquired
ownership of a site could ask the same another way, not be denied.

In the same line and with the same conditions would convenient to distribute land to the Spanish
who settled in villages, which no doubt many people would come to this province, which would
be very useful, as would occupy more than the Indians should give them wages, and they have
nowhere used to taste abound and everything. But neither one nor the other should give them land
to stay, and if needed it could lease the large, comfortable corner there in terms of people,
or consider buying them as more useful, but with the obligation of
home settled in the village where applicable.

Third, the governor would care buildings should be increased and that people make another order
and convenience, directing, with the intervention of the provincial board and approval of the higher
flows that were to be used in building construction new and repairing existing ones, and that the
latter were allowed to Indians live for nothing, at least in the first five years. Let them
know that, after these, had to pay rent, and those who occupy the houses be built again, were
Indian or Spanish, to pay annual or monthly rentals are tasase; and those who would build their
own houses, they franquearía the sun for nothing.

Fourth, the governor should take care in the years that were not missing a sterile Indians to
keep him occupied, at least to win for eating and dressing. On these occasions factors would
apply it to cut timber in the mountains, or they buy which they had cut and carved, and that
those for the herb benefits in the mountains, to the cattle and other occupations that the province
offers even in years more sterile, and if even that was not enough, that mutual funds be used more
the ordinary to use it in composition of roads, building bridges, fountains and regadizos ditches
and other public works that the step they took occupation and wages to increase the comfort Indians
in the province and the usefulness of all, and thus never missing work or what the natives eat,
assuming that the factory no lack of spare parts for these occasions.

The fifth and last, take care of the governor in the villages were rebuilt house Mercy was in time
of the Jesuits, and that it would be collected all the old, old, poor and disabled that had
no staying, or who voluntarily wished collected there, as well as those who did not have how to
heal sick, and that all these them from attending the assets of the factory, and that those who could
work on something were applied to what they could do to benefit from the same factory, so there
was no in no needy people.
 How much is promised to him who giveth only a cup of
cold water in the spirit of Him who went about doing good! And the benevolent painter felt
the reward of his good deed fall, like the dew from heaven, refreshingly on his own spirit.
True, his protégés were very lowly; but God is no respecter of persons, and in radiating this
light around the humble dwelling from which sincere petitions for blessings upon him were daily
invoked, Mr. Stewart proved himself possessed of the true spirit of Christ.

As time rolled on, he became more satisfied that he had done a good work in removing William
from Mr. Walters. He was often invited to join the family circle; and as he remained not only
unspoiled, but showed that the intercourse was profitable for the growth of his true character,
a closer intimacy at last took place between the little shoemaker and George Stewart, which
merged into a friendship that lasted through life. George possessed much of his father's talent,
but weak health prevented his making any great advance in the art, and his early death was
the first cloud which overshadowed the brightness of the family circle.

While the prospects of our little shoemaker were thus improved, he was by no means so dazzled
by his comparative prosperity as to forget his old friends. Thomas Burton and his good old
wife were visited as regularly and loved as well as ever; and, too happy and full of gratitude
to Heaven for the changed circumstances so kindly vouchsafed, he sometimes went to see his
old master; and, far from hating the lowly trade as he had once done, he would on such occasions
occupy his old bench and sew a shoe. Jem Taylor was truly glad at witnessing his improved appearance,
and, finding that prosperity, instead of puffing up his vanity, had only made him more humble,
began really to believe that virtue is its own reward. May we not hope, since none are beyond
the reach of mercy, and since, although the crimes of the sinner may be as scarlet, we are
told that, washed in the blood of the atoning sacrifice, they can all be cleansed away, that
the influence shed by William's resolution to suffer wrong rather than sin, brought him at
last to recognise the beauty of holiness, and induced him to seek for pardon where it may be found?

But William's old friends in M----, were they forgotten? No; he had written constantly to George
Herman, telling of his troubles, and now he wrote to assure him how happy he was. Would our
readers like to know the contents of his letter. We can give them an extract from it. Here it is:--

     Dear George,

     I know you will be glad to hear how happy I am, and I know
     you will wonder when I tell you of all that has happened. You
     know I told you of a gentleman whom I met in the grave-yard
     the day before I left M----, and who coloured the little
     picture I had drawn. Well, he is a great painter, and as my
     health was bad, he persuaded Mr. Walters to give me up to
     him, for a while at least, or until I get strong. He gives me
     drawing lessons with his own son, who is a very good boy, and
     very kind to me; but he does not encourage my giving up my
     trade altogether, for he says that many shoemakers have
     become great men, and that it is the trade which, of all
     others, has produced most remarkable men. He told us about
     Crispin, who lived long ago, and about Holcroft, and Gifford,
     and Sherman, and John Pounds--the last named being only a
     cobbler, and yet he spent most of his life in teaching the
     poor. He says that I must draw every day, and by the time the
     hot weather is over, he will be able to tell whether or not I
     have any real talent, and whether it will be worth while to
     continue my drawing lessons. Ah, George, if he says I will
     make a painter, then I shall give up shoemaking; but if the
     contrary, I will "stick to my last," and continue a
     shoemaker contentedly so the end of my life, because I shall
     believe it my proper place. I go to school now, and for the
     present board with old Mrs. Graham, and feel more like being
     at home than I have done since I left M----. I would like so
     to see you and your good father; and as soon as I have money
     enough of my own, I will go to M---- and see you all.
     Good-bye, dear George, and do not forget your friend,

     William

CHAPTER XIV.

WILLIAM'S SUCCESS.

About ten years after the date of William Raymond's letter to George Herman, a young man with
a knapsack on his back and a stout staff in his hand, was seen approaching the village of M----,
on that side on which lay the church-yard we have already described as the resting-place of
the little shoemaker's parents. The young man was robust, and seemingly a mechanic, for his
hands were rough, as though accustomed to labour, and his face gave plain evidence of acquaintance
with the summer sun. He could not have been altogether a stranger to the place, for after he
passed the few houses in the suburbs of the village, he turned towards the church-yard, the
gate of which stood open, and entered the "silent city" where the dead were reposing.

The day was bright and clear, and, being the early part of June, the trees and flowers were
in their freshest and fairest bloom; but they attracted no particular attention from the stranger.
The grave-yard lay upon a hill which overlooked the town, and the traveller, passing by one
flower-adorned grave after another, walked hastily on until he reached the highest point, from
whence he looked down earnestly, as if his eyes sought to single out some particular object
among the wilderness of roofs. At first his countenance was sad, but at last the melancholy
look changed to an expression of cheerful surprise, for his eye had found what it was seeking
among those once familiar objects. He knew the old house, for memory keeps the record of early
days most faithfully, although its appearance was much changed. The old black roof of oak shingles
was now replaced by a new one of slate; and instead of the dull yellow colour which had for
many years distinguished it, it was now painted and modernized, to harmonize with the rest.
He did not linger long to conjecture the cause of the change, but with hasty steps prepared
to ascertain in person the reason. As he retraced the path trodden only a moment before, he
bestowed rather more attention on the surrounding objects; and as his eye glanced over the
graves once so familiar to it, he saw that change had been busy there too.

The slate roof had not less surprised him than what he now saw: the spot where two lowly graves,
adorned only by flowers, had appeared for years without any monumental record, was now adorned
with all that can be rendered by the living to the dead. A very high and handsome iron railing,
on which climbing plants were trained, enclosed the little mounds, and a simple white marble
pillar bore the names of George and Margaret Raymond. The flowers planted before William had
left M---- had long ago vanished, and the spot, left to neglect, was overgrown with weeds;
but now some kind hand had rescued it from wildness and planted it anew with rare flowers,
which were beginning now to bloom in place of those dead. The sexton's wife with her watering-pot
now came near. Many graves adorned in a similar way required the care of some one, and she
received a regular salary for her attention to the flowers. The young man waited until she
came quite close to where he stood, and then inquired, "Who has had these graves so carefully
done up?"

"Who do you think would do so but the son of the good couple that are buried here?" answered
the sexton's wife. "Little Bill Raymond, that went to New York to be a shoemaker, came back
last spring and had this all done. Folks say he is well to do in the world, and better than
all, he is as good a man as his father was."

A deep blush passing over the young man's face rendered its sun-burned hue yet deeper, but
his eyes lightened with a joyful expression as he inquired with some anxiety, "Is he still
in M----?"

"Yes, indeed," replied the woman; "he is staying with our old baker, Nicholas Herman; there,
that is the house with the slate roof. Old Nicholas was very kind to his mother in her sickness
and poverty, and when she died he took the poor child home. He used always to say if he lived
to be a man he would remember him for it; and he has done so. There was a dreadful fire in
the village last year, and old Nicholas Herman's house was nearly burned down. The roof was
clear gone, but that was little in comparison to the damage done inside. Besides this, the
old man had met with many losses; his son was away nobody knew where, and the baker lost heart,
so that he could not get up spirit enough to set things to rights; and when he did he could
not sell his bread as he used to, for other bakers had set up, and people always like to run
to new places. Will Raymond, it seems, is a painter; and when he came here last summer, and
found the old man in such trouble, he set to and painted him such a sign that there ain't the
like of it far nor near. Why, the people stand in front of the house to admire it; and folks
sometimes say that signs are of no use, but I know the sign brought the customers back. 

When it comes to found a population or populate a province, after consideration the advantages
of its location and terrain, regularly presented two powerful challenges, These are: to persuade or
compel the first settlers to occupy the site will intended, and providing capital for the cost of
everything that has to be in good common. For lack of them, are many towns and villages of
great antiquity without precise comfort and relief that could have if they did, being necessary
to establish the essential place to spill means that other people look with abhorrence, without knowing
that they find useful. But here in these villages, in these circumstances, neither of these two obstacles
must be overcome. The province is well populated with people, and people with swollen streams, which
can serve themselves, with most other proportions shall speak in where it belongs, so that I
think in all the world could not be found another province with the same resources, if the
regulation is verified I will propose.

The people of this department of my office, however to be less proportions as I have said elsewhere,
are at present with some funds more than medium, and not counting what may or must in Buenos
Aires. There are people who would not assets community for 100,000 pesos of silver without putting
into account the houses, lands, or furniture, but only the cattle, plants, fruits and marketable
effects, and least not lower 35,000. And while it is true that there are other villages in the
province that its flow will not to this sum, so is that there are some who outbid a lot, and
that none should be with what they have and their proportions can not establish new ones that
would like to have many American cities. So see you if I have reason to say that the materials
for this are the most precious work and more plentiful than may be desired. We therefore delineate
the plant.

The context of the entire narrative of this report will undoubtedly persuaded you that the media only
to advance the province and take their natural ignorance, misery and despondency where are the
communities extinguished, leaving the Indians in full freedom that each one works for their own
profit, trading the fruits and effects of their work and industry, and that in all live and
be treated like other subjects of the King. This is the dictates of good reason, and this is what
seems to be directed my thoughts. But, friend mine, for the same story you will know that
they are holding the Indians to their communities have been prevented, and prevents the purchase
provided the light to see aid and supplies necessary for life and this disability is a powerful obstacle
to cross freedom, so that in the meantime are in community, can never acquire the necessary lights
for themselves provided the necessary comforts of life, and until they have they seem impossible
to cross the freedom not to expose it to total ruin. As thing evident to all who know that
freedom would cross the same that if every man put him in a desert with no companions, and
there had to alone provided all the supplies necessary for life, which is the same as put it
to perish. And it seems to you weight, lack of intelligence in all which is to help each other,
not knowing how to sell or exchange some goods for others, nor use about the ability of others,
reduce the most miserable state, the impossible actual collection of taxes, it would end minoraría
and even the cult of the temples, and even disperse the Indians, perhaps causing the total destruction
of peoples.
 His motto is still, "Watch that you may pray, and pray
that you may be safe;" and practising upon this teaching, he feels that dependence upon God
alone is mighty to conquer.

And now, dear reader, has not his history fully proved, and his experience shown, that they
that trust in the Lord "shall not be ashamed in the evil time;" for "the salvation of the righteous
is of the Lord; he is their strength in the time of trouble?" He who raised the shepherd boy
to the throne of Israel, and fed his faithful servant Elijah by the brook Cherith, will never
leave nor forsake those who trust in him, and serve him truly. He is the hearer of prayer,
and will feed and care for all that call upon him aright. "Watch and pray," is the injunction
of our blessed Lord to all who would be his followers. To each one he has given his proper
work; and those who would be approved as true believers must honour the Lord in whatever duty
they are called to perform; and this can only be done through assisting grace, which is found
sufficient for all. Besides
these there are around the altar boys two or more Indians sacristanes, but no ecclesiastical robe,
but neat, they are there to pierce the veils, set fire censers, or to pull up chairs and other
similar occupations.

   In these thy words, Thy will be done;
     So strengthen'd by his might,
   Thou, by his Spirit, through his Son,
     Shalt pray, and pray aright."

