Meantime, General Buller did not seem at all anxious to attack us, perhaps fearing a repetition
of the "accidents" on the Tugela; or possibly he thought that our position was too strong.
For some reason, therefore, Laing's Nek was never attacked, and Buller afterwards, having made
a huge "detour," broke through Botha's Pass. Meanwhile, Lord Roberts and his forces were marching
without opposition through the Orange Free State, and I was ordered to proceed to Vereeniging
with my commando. We left Laing's Nek on the 19th of May, and proceeded to the Free State frontier
by rail.

CHAPTER IX.

COLENSO AND SPION KOP FIGHTS.

Eight days after my commando had been stationed in my new position under General Erasmus, I
received instructions to march to Potgietersdrift, on the Upper Tugela, near Spion Kop, and
there to put myself at Andries Cronje's disposal. This gentleman was then a general in the
Orange Free State Army, and although a very venerable looking person, was not very successful
as a commander. Up to the 14th of December, 1899, no noteworthy incident took place, and nothing
was done but a little desultory scouting along the Tugela, and the digging of trenches.

At last came the welcome order summoning us to action; and we were bidden to march on Colenso
Heights with 200 men to fill up the ranks, as a fight was imminent. We left under General Cronje
and arrived the next morning at daybreak, and a few hours after began the battle now known
to the world as the Battle of Colenso (15th December, 1899).

I afterwards heard that the commandos under General Cronje were to cross the river and attack
the enemy's left flank. This did not happen, as the greatest confusion prevailed owing to the
various contradictory orders given by the generals. For instance, I myself received four contradictory
orders from four generals within the space of ten minutes. I, however, took the initiative
in moving my men up to the river to attempt the capture of a battery of guns on the enemy's
left flank which had been left unprotected, as was the case with the ten guns which fell into
our hands later in the day. I had approached within 1,400 paces of the enemy, and my burghers
were following close behind me when an adjutant from General Botha (accompanied by a gentleman
named C. Fourie, who was then also parading as a general) galloped up to us and ordered us
at once to join the Ermelo commando, which was said to be too weak to resist the attacks of
the enemy. We hurried thither as quickly as we could round the rear of the fighting line, where
we were obliged to off-saddle and walk up to the position of the Ermelo burghers. This was
no easy task; the battle was now in full swing, and the enemy's shells were bursting in dozens
around us, and in the burning sun we had to run some miles.

When we arrived at our destination Mr. Fourie (the pseudo general) and his adjutant could nowhere
be found. As to the Ermelo burghers, they said they were quite comfortable, and had asked for
no assistance.

Not a single shell had reached them, for a clump of aloe trees stood a hundred yards away,
which the English presumably had taken for Boers, judging by the terrific bombardment these
trees were being subjected to.

By this time the attack was repulsed, and General Buller was in full retreat to Chieveley,
though our commando had been unable to take an active part in the fighting, at which we were
greatly disappointed. It is much to be regretted that the retreat of the enemy was not followed
up at once. Had this been done, the campaign in Natal would have taken an entirely different
aspect, and very probably would have been attended by a more favourable conclusion. I consider
myself far from a prophet, but this I know; and if we had then and on subsequent occasions
followed up our successes, the result of the Campaign would have been far more satisfactory to us.

After I had assisted in bringing away through the river the guns we had taken, and seen to
other matters which required my immediate attention, I was ordered to remain with the Ermelo
commando at Colenso, near Toomdrift, and to await there further instructions.

A few weeks of inactivity followed, the English sending us each day a few samples of their
shells from their 4·7 Naval guns. Unfortunately, our guns were of much smaller calibre, and
we could send them no suitable reply. As a rule we would lie in the trenches, and a burgher
would be on the look-out. So soon as he saw the flash of an English gun, he would cry out;
"There's a shell," and we then sought cover, so that the enemy seldom succeeded in harming us.

One day one of these big shells fell amongst a group of fourteen burghers who were at dinner.
The shell struck a sharp rock, which it splintered into fragments, and was emitting its yellow
lyddite; but, fortunately, the fuse refused to burn, and the shell did not explode, so we had
a narrow escape that day from a small catastrophe.

My laager had been at Potgietersdrift all this time, and for the time being we were deprived
of our tents. We were not sorry, therefore, when we were ordered to leave Colenso and to return
to our camp.

A few days after we were told off to take up a position at the junction of the Little and the
Big Tugela, between Spion Kop and Colenso. Here we celebrated our first Christmas in the field;
our friends at Johannesburg had sent us a quantity of presents by means of a friend, Attorney
Raaff, comprising cakes, cigars, cigarettes, tobacco and other luxuries. Along this part of
the Tugela we found a fair quantity of vegetables, and poultry, and as their respective owners
had fled we were unable to pay for what we had. We were obliged, therefore, to "borrow" all
these things for the banquet befitting to the occasion.

But General Buller had not quite finished with us yet. He marched on Spion Kop, but with the
exception of a feint attack nothing of importance happened then. One day I went across the
river with a patrol to discover what the enemy was doing, when we suddenly came across nine
English spies, who fled as soon as they saw us. We galloped after them, trying to cut them
off from the main body, which was at a little distance away from us, and would no doubt have
overtaken them, but, riding at a breakneck speed over a mountain ridge, we found ourselves
suddenly confronted with a strong English mounted corps, apparently engaged in drilling. We
were only 500 paces away from them, and we jumped off our horses, and opened fire. But there
were only a dozen of us, and the enemy soon began sending us a few shells, and prepared to
attack us with their whole force. About a hundred mounted men, with horses in the best of condition,
set off to pursue us.

We were obliged to ride back by the same path we had come by, which was fortunate for us, as
we knew the way and could ride through crevices and dongas without any hesitation. In this
way we soon gave our pursuers the slip.

Buller's forces seemed at first to have the intention of forcing their way through near Potgietersdrift,
and they took possession of all the "randts" on their side of the river, causing us to strengthen
the position on our side. We thus had to shift our commando again to Potgietersdrift, where
we soon had the enemy's Naval guns playing on our positions. This continued day and night for
a whole week.

It seemed as if General Buller were determined to annihilate all the Boers with his lyddite
shells, so as to enable the soldiers to walk at their leisure to the release of Ladysmith.
Certainly we suffered considerably from lyddite fumes.

The British next made a feint attack near Potgietersdrift, advancing with a great clamour till
they had come within 2,000 paces of us, where they occupied various "randts" and kopjes, always
under cover of their artillery. Once they came a little too close to our positions, and we
suddenly opened fire on them. The result was that their ambulance waggons were seen to become
very busy driving backwards and forwards.

This "feint," however, was only made in order to divert our attention, while Buller was concentrating
his troops and guns on Spion Kop. The ruse succeeded to a large extent, and on the 21st January
the memorable battle of Spion Kop (near the Upper Tugela) began.

General Warren, who, I believe, was in command here, had ordered another "feint" attack from
the extreme right wing. General Cronje and the Free Staters had taken up a position at Spion
Kop, assisted by the commandos of General Erasmus and Schalk Burger.

The fight lasted the whole of that day and the next, and became more and more fierce. Luckily
General Botha appeared on the scene in time, and re-arranged matters so well and with so much
energy that the enemy found itself well employed, and was kept in check at all points.

I had been ordered to defend the position at Potgietersdrift, but the fighting round Spion
Kop became so serious that I was obliged to send up a field cornet with his men as a reinforcement,
which was soon followed by a second contingent, making altogether 200 Johannesburgers in the
fight, of whom nine were killed and 18 wounded. The enemy had reached the top of the "kop"
on the evening of the second day of the fight, not, however, without having sustained considerable
losses. At this juncture one of our generals felt so disheartened that he sent away his carts,
and himself left the battlefield.

But General Botha kept his ground like a man, surrounded by the faithful little band who had
already borne the brunt of this important battle. And one can imagine our delight when next
morning we found that the English had retreated, leaving that immense battlefield, strewn with
hundreds of dead and wounded, in our hands.

"What made them leave so suddenly last night," was the question we asked each other then, and
which remains unanswered to this day.

General Warren has stated that the cause of his departure was the want of water, but I can
hardly credit that statement, as water could be obtained all the way to the top of Spion Kop;
and even had it been wanting it is not likely that after a sacrifice of 1,200 to 1,300 lives
the position would have been abandoned on this account alone. Our victory was undoubtedly a fluke.

CHAPTER X.

THE BATTLE OF VAALKRANTZ.

Soon after his defeat at Spion Kop, General Buller, moved by the earnest entreaties for help
from Ladysmith, and pressed by Lord Roberts, attempted a third time to break through our lines.
This time my position had to bear the onslaught of his whole forces. For some days it had been
clear to me what the enemy intended to do, but I wired in vain to the Commander-in-Chief to
send me reinforcements, and I was left to defend a front, one and a half miles in length, with
about 400 men. After many requests I at last moved General Joubert to send me one of the guns
known as "Long Toms," which was placed at the rear of our position, and enabled us to command
the Vaalkrantz, or, as we called it, "Pontdrift" kopjes. But instead of the required reinforcements,
the Commander sent a telegram to General Meyer to Colenso, telling him to come and speak to
me, and to put some heart into me, for it seemed, he said, "as if I had lost faith."

General Meyer came, and I explained to him how matters stood, and that I should not be able
to check the enormous attacking force with my commando alone. The British were at this time
only 7,000 paces away from us. The required assistance, however, never came, although I told
the General that a faith strong enough to move Majuba Hill would be of no avail without a sufficient
number of men.

Early in the morning of the 5th February, 1900, my position was heavily bombarded, and before
the sun had risen four of my burghers had been put hors de combat. The enemy had placed their
naval guns on the outskirts of the wood known as "Zwartkop" so as to be able to command our
position from an elevation of about 400 feet. I happened to be on the right flank with ninety-five
burghers and a pom-pom; my assistant, Commandant Jaapie du Preez, commanding the left flank.

The assailants threw two pontoon bridges across the river and troops kept pouring over from
10 o'clock in the morning. The whole of the guns' fire was now concentrated on my position;
and although we answered with a well-directed fire, they charged time after time.

The number of my fighting men was rapidly diminishing. I may say this was the heaviest bombardment
I witnessed during the whole of the campaign. It seemed to me as if all the guns of the British
army were being fired at us.

Their big lyddite guns sent over huge shells, which mowed down all the trees on the kopje,
while about fifty field pieces were incessantly barking away from a shorter range. Conan Doyle,
in his book, "The Great Boer War," states that the British had concentrated no less than seventy-three
guns on that kopje. In vain I implored the nearest Generals for reinforcements and requested
our artillery in Heaven's name to aim at the enemy's guns. At last, however, "Long Tom" commenced
operations, but the artillerymen in charge had omitted to put the powder in a safe place and
it was soon struck by a lyddite shell which set the whole of it on fire. This compelled us
to send to the head laager near Ladysmith for a fresh supply of powder.

On looking about me to see how my burghers were getting on I found that many around me had
been killed and others were wounded. The clothes of the latter were burnt and they cried out
for help in great agony.

Our pom-pom had long since been silenced by the enemy, and thirty of my burghers had been put
out of the fight. The enemy's infantry was advancing nearer and nearer and there was not much
time left to think. I knelt down behind a kopje, along with some of the men, and we kept firing
away at 400 paces, but although we sent a good many to eternal rest, the fire of the few burghers
who were left was too weak to stem the onslaught of those overwhelming numbers.

A lyddite shell suddenly burst over our very heads. Four burghers with me were blown to pieces
and my rifle was smashed. It seemed to me as if a huge cauldron of boiling fat had burst over
us and for some minutes I must have lost consciousness. A mouthful of brandy and water (which
I always carried with me) was given me and restored me somewhat, and when I opened my eyes
I saw the enemy climbing the kopje on three sides of us, some of them only a hundred paces
away from me.

I ordered my men to fall back and took charge of the pom-pom, and we then retired under a heavy
rifle and gun fire. Some English writers have made much ado about the way in which our pom-pom
was saved, but it was nothing out of the ordinary. Of the 95 burghers with me 29 had been killed,
24 wounded.

When I had a few minutes rest I felt a piercing pain in my head, and the blood began to pour
from my nose and ears.

We had taken up another position at 1,700 paces, and fired our pom-pom at the enemy, who now
occupied our position of a few minutes before. Our other guns were being fired as well, which
gave the British an exciting quarter of an hour. On the right and left of the positions taken
by them our burghers were still in possession of the "randten"; to the right Jaapie du Preez,
with the loss of only four wounded, kept his ground with the rest of my commando.

The next morning the fight was renewed, and our "Long Tom" now took the lead in the cannon-concert,
and seemed to make himself very unpleasant to the enemy.

The whole day was mainly a battle of big guns. My headache grew unbearable, and I was very
feverish. General Botha had meanwhile arrived with reinforcements, and towards evening things
took a better turn.

But I was temporarily done for, and again lost consciousness, and was taken to the ambulance.
Dr. Shaw did his best, I hear, for me; but I was unconscious for several days, and when I revived
the doctor told me I had a slight fracture of the skull caused by the bursting of a shell.
The injuries, however, could not have been very serious for ten days after I was able to leave
my bed. I then heard that the night I had been taken to the hospital, the British had once
more been forced to retire across the Tugela, and early in the morning of the 7th of February
our burghers were again in possession of the kopje "Vaalkrantz," round which such a fierce
fight had waged and for the possession of which so much blood had been spilled.

So far as I could gather from the English official reports they lost about 400 men, while our
dead and wounded numbered only sixty-two.

Taking into consideration the determination with which General Buller had attacked us, and
how dearly he had paid for this third abortive attempt, the retreat of his troops remains as
much of a mystery to me as that at Spion Kop.

Our "Long Tom" was a decided success, and had proved itself to be exceedingly useful.

The Battle of "Vaalkrantz" kopje was to me and to the Johannesburg commando undoubtedly the
most important and the fiercest fight in this war, and although one point in our positions
was taken, I think that on the whole I may be proud of our defence. About two-thirds of its
defenders were killed or wounded before the enemy took that spot, and all who afterwards visited
the kopje where our struggle had taken place had to admit that unmistakable evidence showed
it to be one of the hottest fights of the Natal campaign. All the trees were torn up or smashed
by shells, great blocks of rock had been splintered and were stained yellow by the lyddite;
mutilated bodies were lying everywhere--Briton and Boer side by side; for during the short
time "Vaalkrantz" had been in their possession the English had not had an opportunity of burying
the bodies of friends or foe.

I think I may quote a few paragraphs of what Dr. Doyle says in his book about this engagement:--

     "The artillery-fire (the "Zwartkop" guns and other
     batteries) was then hurriedly aimed at the isolated
     "Vaalkrantz" (the real object of the attack), and had a
     terrific effect. It is doubtful whether ever before a
     position has been exposed to such an awful bombardment. The
     weight of the ammunition fired by some of the cannon was
     greater than that of an entire German battery during the
     Franco-Prussian war."

Prince Kraft describes the 4 and 6-pounders as mere toys compared with machine Howitzer and
4·7 guns.

Dr. Doyle, however, is not sure about the effect of these powerful guns, for he says:--

     "Although the rims of the kopje were being pounded by
     lyddite and other bombs it is doubtful whether this terrific
     fire did much damage among the enemy, as seven English
     officers and 70 men were lying dead on the kopje against
     only a few Boers, who were found to have been wounded."

Of the pom-pom, which I succeeded in saving from the enemy's hands, the same writer says:--

     "It was during this attack that something happened of a more
     picturesque and romantic nature than is usually the case in
     modern warfare; here it was not a question of combatants and
     guns being invisible or the destruction of a great mass of
     people. In this case it concerns a Boer gun, cut off by the
     British troops, which all of a sudden came out of its
     hiding-place and scampered away like a frightened hare from
     his lair. It fled from the danger as fast as the mules' legs
     would take it, nearly overturning, and jolting and knocking
     against the rocks, while the driver bent forward as far as
     he could to protect himself from the shower of bullets which
     were whistling round his ears in all directions. British
     shells to the right of him, shells to the left of him
     bursting and spluttering, lyddite shrapnel fuming and
     fizzing and making the splinters fly. But over the "randtje"
     the gun disappeared, and in a few minutes after it was in
     position again, and dealing death and destruction amongst
     the British assailants."

While I was under treatment in Dr. Shaw's ambulance I was honoured by a visit from General
Joubert, who came to compliment me on what he called the splendid defence of Vaalkrantz, and
to express his regret at the heavy loss sustained by our commando. I heard from Dr. Shaw that
after the battle the groans and cries of the wounded burghers could be heard in the immediate
neighbourhood of the English outposts. Some burghers volunteered to go, under cover of the
darkness, to see if they could save these wounded men. They cautiously crept up to the foot
of the kopjes, from where they could plainly see the English sentinels, and a little further
down found in a ditch two of our wounded, named Brand and Liebenberg; the first had an arm
and a leg smashed, the latter had a bullet in his thigh.

One can imagine what a terrible plight they were in after laying there for two nights and a
day, exposed to the night's severe cold and the day's scorching sun. Their wounds were already
decomposing, and the odour was most objectionable.

The two unfortunate men were at once carried to the laager and attended to with greatest care.
Poor Liebenberg died of his wounds soon after. Brand, the youngest son of the late President
Brand, of the Orange Free State, soon recovered, if I remember rightly.

At the risk of incurring the displeasure of a great number of people by adding the following
statement to my description of the battle of Vaalkrantz, I feel bound to state that Commandant-General
Joubert, after our successes at Colenso, Spion Kop, and Vaalkrantz, asked the two State Presidents,
Kruger and Steyn, to consider the urgency of making peace overtures to the English Government.
He pointed out that the Republics had no doubt reached the summit of their glory in the War.
The proposal read as follows: That the Republican troops should at once evacuate British territory,
compensation to be given for the damage to property, etc., inflicted by our commandos, against
which the British Government was to guarantee that the Republics should be spared from any
further incursions or attacks from British troops, and to waive its claim of Suzerainty; and
that the British Government should undertake not to interfere with the internal affairs and
legal procedure of the two Republics, and grant general amnesty to the colonial rebels.

Commander-in-Chief Joubert defended these proposals by pointing out that England was at that
moment in difficulties, and had suffered repeated serious defeats. The opportunity should be
taken, urged the General.

He was supported by several officers, but other Boer leaders contended that Natal, originally
Boer territory, should never again be ceded to the enemy. As we heard nothing more of these
proposals, I suppose the two State Presidents rejected them.

CHAPTER XI.

THE TURN OF THE TIDE.

After the English forces had retreated from Vaalkrantz across the Tugela, a patrol of my commando
under my faithful adjutant, J. Du Preez, who had taken my place for the time being, succeeded
in surprising a troop of fifty Lancers, of the 17th regiment, I believe, near Zwartkop, east
of the Tugela, and making them prisoners after a short skirmish. Among these men, who were
afterwards sent to Pretoria, was a certain Lieutenant Thurlington. It was a strange sight to
see our patrol coming back with their victims, each Boer brandishing a captured lance.

Being still in the hospital in feeble health without any prospect of a speedy recovery, I took
the doctor's advice and went home to Rondepoort, near Krugersdorp, where my family was staying
at the time, and there, thanks to the careful treatment of my kind doctor and the tender care
of my wife I soon recovered my strength.

On the 25th of February I received a communication from my commando to the effect that General
Buller had once more concentrated his forces on Colenso and that heavy fighting was going on.
The same evening I also had a telegram from President Kruger, urging me to rejoin my commando
so soon as health would allow, for affairs seemed to have taken a critical turn. The enemy
appeared to mean business this time, and our commando had already been compelled to evacuate
some very important positions, one of which was Pieter's Heights.

Then the news came from Cape Colony that General Piet Cronje had been surrounded at Paardeberg,
and that as he stubbornly refused to abandon his convoy and retreat, he would soon be compelled
by a superior force to surrender.

The next morning I was in a fast train to Natal, accompanied by my faithful adjutant, Rokzak.
My other adjutant, Du Preez, had meantime been ordered to take a reinforcement of 150 men to
Pieter's Heights, and was soon engaged in a desperate struggle in the locality situated between
the Krugersdorpers' and the Middleburgers' positions. The situation was generally considered
very serious when I arrived near the head laager at Modderspruit late in the evening of the
27th of February, unaware of the unfavourable turn things had taken during the day at Paardeberg,
in the Cape Colony, and on the Tugela. We rode on that night to my laager at Potgietersdrift,
but having to go by a roundabout way it took us till early next morning before we reached our
destination. The first thing I saw on my arrival was a cart containing ten wounded men, who
had just been brought in from the fighting line, all yellow with lyddite.

Field-cornet P. van der Byl, who came fresh from the fight near Pieter's Heights, told me that
these burghers had been wounded there. I asked them what had happened and how matters stood.
"Ah, Commandant," he replied, "things are in a very bad way! Commandant Du Preez and myself
were called to Pieter's Heights three days ago, as the enemy wanted to force their way through.
We were in a very awkward position, the enemy storming us again and again; but we held our
own, and fired on the soldiers at 50 paces. The English, however, directed an uninterrupted
gun fire at our commandos, and wrought great havoc. Early Sunday morning the other side asked
for a truce to enable them to bury their dead who were lying too close to our positions to
be got at during the fighting. Many of their wounded were lying there as well, and the air
was rent during 24 hours with their agonised groans, which were awful to hear. We, therefore,
granted an armistice till 6 o'clock in the evening." (This curiously coincided in time with
Lord Roberts' refusal to General Piet Cronje at Paardeberg to bury his dead).

"The enemy," continued the field-cornet, "broke through several positions, and while we were
being fired at by the troops which were advancing on us, we were attacked on our left flank
and in the rear. Assistant-Commandant Du Preez, and Field-Cornet Mostert, were both severely
wounded, but are now in safe hands. Besides these, 42 of our burghers were killed, wounded,
or taken prisoners; we could only bring 16 of our wounded with us. The Krugersdorpers, too,
have suffered severely. The enemy has pushed through, and I suppose my burghers are now taking
up a position in the "randten" near Onderbroekspruit."

Here was a nice state of things! When I had left my commando 15 days previously, we had had
heavy losses in the battle of Vaalkrantz, and now again my burghers had been badly cut up.
We had lost over 100 men in one month.

But there was no time to lose in lamenting over these matters, for I had just received information
that General P. Cronje had been taken prisoner with 4,000 men. The next report was to the effect
that the enemy was breaking through near Onderbroekspruit, and that some burghers were retiring
past Ladysmith. I was still in telegraphic communication with the head laager, and at once
wired to the Commandant-General for instructions. The answer was:--

     "Send your carts back to Modderspruit (our headquarters) and
     hold the position with your mounted commandos."

The position indicated was on the Upper Tugela, on a line with Colenso. My laager was about
20 miles away from the head laager; the enemy had passed through Onderbroekspruit, and was
pushing on with all possible speed to relieve Ladysmith, so that I now stood in an oblique
line with the enemy's rear. I sent out my carts to the south-west, going round Ladysmith in
the direction of Modderspruit. One of my scouts reported to me that the Free State commandos
which had been besieging Ladysmith to the south, had all gone in the direction of Van Reenen's
Pass; another brought the information that the enemy had been seen to approach the village,
and that a great force of cavalry was making straight for us.

General Joubert's instructions were therefore inexplicable to me, and if I had carried them
out I would probably have been cut off by the enemy. My burghers were also getting restless,
and asked me why, while all the other commandos were retiring, we did not move. Cronje's surrender
had had a most disheartening effect on them; there was, in fact, quite a panic among them.
I mounted a high kopje from which I could see the whole Orange Free State army, followed by
a long line of quite 500 carts and a lot of cattle, in full retreat, and enveloped in great
clouds of red dust. To the right of Ladysmith I also noticed a similar melancholy procession.
On turning round, I saw the English in vast numbers approaching very cautiously, so slowly,
in fact, that it would take some time before they could reach us. Another and great force was
rushing up behind them, also in the direction of Ladysmith.

It must have been a race for the Distinguished Service Order or the Victoria Cross to be won
by the one who was first to enter Ladysmith. We knew that the British infantry, aided by the
artillery, had paved the way for relief, and I noticed the Irish Fusiliers on this occasion,
as always, in the van. But Lord Dundonald rushed in and was proclaimed the hero of the occasion.

Before concluding this chapter I should like to refer to a few incidents which happened during
the Siege of Ladysmith. It is unnecessary to give a detailed description of the destruction
of "Long Tom" at Lombardskop or the blowing up of another gun west of Ladysmith, belonging
to the Pretoria Commando. The other side have written enough about this, and made enough capital
out of them; and many a D.S.O. and V.C. has been awarded on account of them.

Alas, I can put forward nothing to lessen our dishonour. As regards the "Long Tom" which was
blown up, this was a piece of pure treachery, and a shocking piece of neglect, Commandant Weilbach,
who ought to have defended this gun with the whole of his Heidelberg Commando, was unfaithful
to his charge. The Heidelbergers, however, under a better officer, subsequently proved themselves
excellent soldiers. A certain Major Erasmus was also to blame. He was continually under the
influence of some beverage which could not be described as "aqua pura"; and we, therefore,
expected little from him. But although the planning and the execution of the scheme to blow
up "Long Tom" was a clever piece of work, the British wasted time and opportunity amusing themselves
in cutting out on the gun the letters "R.A." (Royal Artillery), and the effect of the explosion
was only to injure part of the barrel. After a little operation in the workshops of the Netherlands
South African Railway Company at Pretoria under the direction of Mr. Uggla, our gun-doctor,
"Long Tom's" mouth was healed and he could spit fire again as well as before. As to the blowing
up of the howitzer shortly after, I will say the incident reflected no credit on General Erasmus,
as he ought to have been warned by what happened near Lombardskop, and to have taken proper
precautions not to give a group of starving and suffering soldiers an opportunity of penetrating
his lines and advancing right up to his guns.

Both incidents will be an ugly blot on the history of this war, and I am sorry to say the two
Boer officers have never received condign punishment. They should, at any rate, have been called
before the Commandant-General to explain their conduct.

The storming of Platrand (Cæsar's Camp), south-east of Ladysmith, on the 6th of January, 1900,
also turned out badly for many reasons. The attack was not properly conducted owing to a jealousy
amongst some of the generals, and there was not proper co-operation.

The burghers who took part in the assault and captured several forts did some splendid work,
which they might well be proud of, but they were not seconded as they should have been. The
enemy knew that if they lost Platrand, Ladysmith would have to surrender; they therefore defended
every inch of ground, with the result that our men were finally compelled to give way. And,
for our pains, we sustained an enormous loss in men, which did not improve in any way the broken
spirit of our burghers.

CHAPTER XII.

THE GREAT BOER RETREAT.

There was clearly no help for it, we had to retreat. I gave orders to saddle up and to follow
the example of the other commandos, reporting the fact to the Commandant-General. An answer
came--not from Modderspruit this time, but from the station beyond Elandslaagte--that a general
retreat had been ordered, most of the commandos having already passed Ladysmith, and that General
Joubert had gone in advance to Glencoe. At dusk I left the Tugela positions which we had so
successfully held for a considerable time, where we had arrested the enemy from marching to
the relief of Ladysmith, and where so many comrades had sacrificed their lives for their country
and their people.

It was a sad sight to see the commandos retreating in utter chaos and disorder in all directions.
I asked many officers what instructions they had received, but nobody seemed to know what the
orders actually were; their only idea seemed to be to get away as quickly as possible.

Finally, at 9 o'clock in the evening we reached Klip River, where a strange scene was taking
place. The banks were crowded with hundreds of mounted men, carts and cattle mingled in utter
confusion amongst the guns, all awaiting their turn to cross. With an infinite amount of trouble
the carts were all got over one at a time. After a few minutes' rest I decided on consulting
my officers, that we should cross the river with our men by another drift further up the stream,
our example being followed by a number of other commandos.

I should point out here that in retreating we were going to the left, and therefore in perilous
proximity to Ladysmith. The commandos which had been investing the town were all gone; and
Buller's troops had already reached it from the eastern side, and there was really nothing
to prevent the enemy from turning our rear, which had perforce to pass Ladysmith on its way
from the Tugela. When we had finally got through the drift late that evening, a rumour reached
us that the British were in possession of Modderspruit, and so far as that road was concerned,
our retreat was effectually cut off.

Shortly before the War, however, the English had made a new road which followed the course
of the Klip River up to the Drakensbergen, and then led through the Biggarsbergen to Newcastle.
This road was, I believe, made for military purposes; but it was very useful to us, and our
wagons were safely got away by it.

Commandant D. Joubert, of the Carolina Commando, then sent a message asking for reinforcements
for the Pretoria laager, situated to the north-west of Ladysmith. It was a dark night and the
rain was pouring down in torrents, which rendered it very difficult to get the necessary burghers
together for this purpose.

I managed, however, to induce a sufficient number of men to come together, and we rode back;
but on nearing the Pretoria Laager, I found to my dismay that there were only 22 of us left.
What was to be done? This handful of men was of very little use; yet to return would have been
cowardly, and besides, in the meantime our laager would have gone on, and would now be several
hours' riding ahead of us. I sent some burghers in advance to see what was happening to the
Pretoria Laager. It seemed strange to me that the place should still be in the hands of our
men, seeing that all the other commandos had long since retired. After waiting fully an hour,
our scouts came back with the information that the laager was full of English soldiers, and
that they had been able to hear them quarrelling about the booty left behind by the burghers.

It was now two o'clock in the morning. Our Pretoria comrades were apparently safe, and considerably
relieved we decided to ride to Elandslaagte which my men would by that time have surely reached.
Our carts were sooner or later bound to arrive there, inasmuch as they were in charge of a
field-cornet known to us as one of our best "retreat officers." I think it was splendid policy
under the circumstances to appoint such a gentleman to such a task; I felt sure that the enemy
would never overtake him and capture his carts. We followed the main road, which was fortunately
not held by the enemy, as had been reported to us. On the way we encountered several carts
and waggons which had been cast away by the owners for fear of being caught up by the pursuing
troops. Of course the rumour that this road was in possession of the English was false, but
it increased the panic among the burghers. Not only carts had been left behind, but, as we
found in places, sacks of flour, tins of coffee, mattresses and other jettison, thrown out
of the carts to lighten their burden.

On nearing Elandslaagte we caught up the rear of the fleeing commandos. Here we learned that
Generals Botha and Meyer were still behind us with their commandos, near Lombardsdorp. We off-saddled,
exhausted and half starving. Luckily, some of the provisions of our commissariat, which had
been stored here during the Ladysmith investment, had not been carried away. But, to our disgust,
we found that the Commissariat-Commissioner had set fire to the whole of it, so we had to appease
our hunger by picking half-burned potatoes out of a fire.

At 7 o'clock next morning General Botha and his men arrived at Elandslaagte and off-saddled
in hopes of getting something to eat. They were also doomed to disappointment. Such wanton
destruction of God's bounty was loudly condemned, and had Mr. Pretorius, the Commissioner of
Stores, not been discreet enough to make himself scarce, he would no doubt have been subjected
to a severe "sjamboking." Later in the day a council of war was held, and it was decided that
we should all stay there for the day, in order to stop the enemy if they should pursue us.
Meantime we would allow the convoys an opportunity of getting to the other side of the Sunday
River.

The British must have been so overjoyed at the relief of Ladysmith that Generals Buller and
White did not think it necessary to pursue us, at any rate for some time, a consideration for
which we were profoundly grateful. Methinks General Buller must have felt that he had paid
a big price for the relief of Ladysmith, for it must have cost him many more lives than he
had relieved. But in that place were a few Jingos (Natal Jingos) who had to be released, I
suppose, at any costs.

My burghers and I had neither cooking utensils nor food, and were anxious to push forward and
find our convoys; for we had not as yet learned to live without carts and commissariat. At
dusk the generals--I have no idea who they were--ordered us to hold the "randjes" south of
the Sunday River till the following day, and that no burghers were to cross the river. This
order did not seem to please the majority, but the Generals had put a guard near the bridge,
with instructions to shoot any burghers and their horses should they try to get to the other
side; so they had perforce, to remain where they were. Now I had only 22 men under my command,
and I did not think these would make an appreciable difference to our fighting force, so I
said to myself: "To-night we shall have a little game with the generals for once."

We rode towards the bridge, and of course the guard there threatened to fire on us if we did
not go back immediately. My adjutant, however, rode up and said: "Stand back, you ----! This
is Commandant Viljoen, who has been ordered to hurry up a patrol at ----" (mentioning some
place a few miles away) "which is in imminent danger of being captured."

The guards, quite satisfied, stepped back and favoured us with a military salute as we rode
by. When we had been riding a little way I heard someone ask them what "people" they were who
had passed over the bridge, and I caught the words: "Now you will see that they will all want
to cross."

I do not contend I was quite right in acting in this insubordinate manner, but we strongly
objected to being put under the guard of other commandos by some one irresponsible general.
I went on that night till we reached the Biggarsbergen, and next day sent out scouts in the
direction of the Drakensbergen to inquire for the scattered remains of my commando. The mountains
were covered with cattle from the laagers about Glencoe Station. The Boers there were cooking
food, shoeing their horses, or repairing their clothes; in fact, they were very comfortable
and very busy. They remarked: "There are many more burghers yonder with the General; we are
quite sure of that." ... "The Commandant-General is near Glencoe and will stop the retreating men."

In short, as was continually happening in the War, everything was left to chance and the Almighty.
Luckily General Botha had deemed it his duty to form a rearguard and cover our retreat; otherwise
the English would have captured a large number of laagers, and many burghers whose horses were
done up. But, whereas we had too little discipline, the English had evidently too much. It
is not for me to say why General Buller did not have us followed up; but it seems that the
British lost a splendid chance.

Some days went by without anything of note happening. My scouts returned on the third day and
reported that my commando and its laager had safely got through, and could be expected the
next day. Meanwhile I had procured some provisions at Glencoe, and for the time being we had
nothing to complain about.

I was very much amused next day to receive by despatch-rider a copy of a telegram from Glencoe
sent by General Joubert to General Prinsloo at Harrismith (Orange Free State) asking for information
regarding several missing commandos and officers, amongst whom my name appeared, while the
telegram also contained the startling news that my commando had been reported cut up at Klip
River and that I had been killed in action! This was the second time that I was killed, but
one eventually gets used to that sort of thing.

I sent, by the despatch-rider, this reply:--

"I and my commando are very much alive!" Adding: "Tell the General we want four slaughter oxen."

The following day I received orders to attend a council of war which was to be held at Glencoe
Station. The principal object of this gathering was to discuss further plans of operation,
to decide as to where our next positions were to be taken, and where the new fighting line
would be formed.

We all met at the appointed time in a big unoccupied hall near Glencoe Station, where General
Joubert opened the last council that he was to conduct in this world. Over 50 officers were
present and the interest was very keen for several reasons. In the first place we all desired
some official information about the fate of General Cronje and his burghers at Paardeburg,
and in the second place some expected to hear something definite about the intervention of
which so much had been said and written of late. In fact many thought that Russia, France,
Germany or the United States of America would surely intervene so soon as the fortunes of war
began to turn against us. My personal opinion was stated just before the war at a public meeting,
held in Johannesburg, where I said: "If we are driven to war we must not rely for deliverance
on foreign powers, but on God and the Mauser."

Some officers thought we ought to retire to our frontiers as far as Laing's Nek, and it was
generally believed that this proposal would be adopted. According to our custom General Joubert
opened the council with an address, in which he described the situation in its details. It
was evident that our Commandant-General was very low-spirited and melancholy, and was suffering
greatly from that painful internal complaint which was so soon to put an end to his career.

No less than eleven assisting commandants and fighting generals were present, and yet not one
could say who was next in command to General Joubert. I spoke to some friends about the irregularities
which occurred during our retreat from Ladysmith: how all the generals were absent except Botha
and Meyer, while the latter was on far from good terms with General Joubert since the unfortunate
attack on Platrand. This was undoubtedly due to the want of co-operation on the part of the
various generals, and I resolved if possible, to bring our army into a closer union. I therefore
proposed a motion:--

     "That all the generals be asked to resign, with the
     exception of one assistant commandant-general and one
     fighting general."

Commandant Engelbrecht had promised to second my proposal, but when it was read out his courage
failed him. The motion, moreover, was not very well received, and when it was put to the vote
I found that I stood alone, even my seconder having forsaken me. As soon as an opportunity
presented itself I asked General Joubert who was to be second in command. My question was not
answered directly, but egged on by my colleagues, I asked whether General Botha would be next
in command. To this he replied: "Yes, that is what I understand--."

And if I am not mistaken, this was the first announcement of the important fact that Botha
was to lead us in future.

Much more was said and much arranged; some of the commandos were to go to Cape Colony and attempt
to check the progress of Lord Roberts, who was marching steadily north after Cronje's surrender.
Finally each officer had some position assigned to him in the mountain-chain we call the Biggarsbergen.
I was placed under General Meyer at Vantondersnek, near Pomeroy, and we left at once for our
destination. From this place a pass leads through the Biggarsbergen, about 18 miles from Glencoe
Station.

CHAPTER XIII.

DRIVEN FROM THE BIGGARSBERGEN.

We spent the next few weeks in entrenching and fortifying our new positions. General Botha
had left with some men for the Orange Free State which Lord Roberts, having relieved Kimberley,
was marching through. General Joubert died about this time at Pretoria, having been twenty-one
years Commandant-General of the South African Republic. He was without doubt one of the most
prominent figures in the South African drama.

General Botha now took up the chief command and soon proved himself to be worthy of holding
the reins. He enjoyed the confidence and esteem of our whole army, a very important advantage
under our trying circumstances.

Assisted by De Wet he was soon engaged in organizing the commandos in the Orange Free State,
and in attempting to make some sort of a stand against the British, who were now marching through
the country in overwhelming numbers. In this Republic the burghers had been under the command
of the aged General Prinsloo, who now, however, had become so downhearted that the supreme
command was taken from him and given to General De Wet. Prinsloo surrendered soon after, in
doing which he did his people his greatest service; it was, however, unfortunate that he should
have succeeded in leading with him 900 burghers into the hands of the enemy.

In the Biggarsbergen we had nothing to do but to sleep and eat and drink. On two separate occasions,
however, we were ordered to join others in attacking the enemy's camp at Elandslaagte. This
was done with much ado, but I would rather say nothing about the way in which the attacks were
directed. It suffices to say that both failed miserably, and we were forced to retire considerably
quicker than we had come.

Our generals, meantime, were very busy issuing innumerable circulars to the different commandos.
It is impossible for me to remember the contents of all these curious manifestos, but one read
as follows:--

     "A roll-call of all burghers is to be taken daily; weekly
     reports are to be sent to headquarters of each separate
     commando, and the minimum number of burghers making up a
     field-cornetship is therein to be stated. Every 15 men
     forming a field-cornetship are to be under a corporal; and
     these corporals are to hold a roll-call every day, and to
     send in weekly detailed reports of their men to the
     Field-Cornet and Commandant, who in his turn must report to
     the General."

Another lengthy circular had full instructions and regulations for the granting of "leave"
to burghers, an intricate arrangement which gave officers a considerable amount of trouble.
The scheme was known as the "furlough system," and was an effort to introduce a show of organisation
into the weighty matter of granting leave of absence. It failed, however, completely to have
its desired effect. It provided that one-tenth of each commando should be granted furlough
for a fortnight, and then return to allow another tenth part to go in its turn. In a case of
sick leave, a doctor's certificate was required, which had to bear the counter-signature of
the field-cornet; its possessor was then allowed to go home instead of to the hospital. Further,
a percentage of the farmers were allowed from time to time to go home and attend to pressing
matters of their farms, such as harvesting, shearing sheep, etc. Men were chosen by the farmers
to go and attend to matters not only for themselves but for other farmers in their districts
as well. The net result of all this was that when everybody who could on some pretext or other
obtain furlough had done so, about a third of each commando was missing. My burghers who were
mostly men from the Witwatersrand Goldfields, could of course obtain no leave for farming purposes;
and great dissatisfaction prevailed. I was inundated with complaints about their unfair treatment
in this respect and only settled matters with considerable trouble.

I agree that this matter had to be regulated somehow, and I do not blame the authorities for
their inability to cope with the difficulty. It seemed a great pity, however, that the commandos
should be weakened so much and that the fighting spirit should be destroyed in this fashion.
Of course it was our first big war and our arrangements were naturally of a very primitive
character.

It was the beginning of May before our friends the enemy at Ladysmith and Elandslaagte began
to show some signs of activity. We discovered unmistakable signs that some big forward movement
was in progress, but we could not discover on which point the attack was to be directed. Buller
and his men were marching on the road along Vantondersnek, and I scented heavy fighting for
us again. I gathered a strong patrol and started out to reconnoitre the position. We found
that the enemy had pitched their camp past Waschbank in great force, and were sending out detachments
in an easterly direction. From this I concluded that they did not propose going through Vantondersnek,
but that they intended to attack our left flank at Helpmakaar. This seemed to me, at any rate,
to be General Buller's safest plan.

Helpmakaar was east of my position; it is a little village elbowed in a pass in the Biggarsbergen.
By taking this point one could hold the key to our entire extended line of defence, as was
subsequently only too clearly shown. I pointed this out to some of our generals, but a commandant's
opinion did not weigh much just then; nor was any notice taken of a similar warning from Commandant
Christian Botha, who held a position close to mine with the Swaziland burghers.

We had repeated skirmishes with the English outposts during our scouting expeditions, and on
one occasion we suddenly encountered a score of men of the South African Light Horse.

We noticed them in a "donk" (a hollow place) thickly covered with trees and bushes, but not
before we were right amongst them. It appears they mistook us for Englishmen, while we thought
at first they were members of Colonel Blake's Irish Brigade. Many of them shook hands with
us, and a burgher named Vivian Cogell asked them in Dutch: "How are you, boys?"

To which an Englishman, who understood a little Dutch, answered: "Oh, all right; where do you
come from?"

Vivian replied: "From Viljoen's commando; we are scouting."

Then the Englishman discovered who we were, but Vivian gave the man no time for reflection.
Riding up to him, he asked: "What regiment do you belong to?"

"To the South African Light Horse," answered the Englishman.

"Hands up!" retorted Vivian, and the English-Afrikander threw down his gun and put up his hands.

"Hands up! Hands up!" was the cry now universally heard, and although a few escaped, the majority
were disarmed and made prisoners. It had been made a rule that when a burgher captured a British
soldier he should be allowed to conduct him to Pretoria, where he could then obtain a few days'
leave to visit his family. This did much to encourage our burghers to make prisoners, although
many lost their lives in attempting to do so.

The next day, General Buller marched on Helpmakaar, passing close to our position. We fired
a few shots from our Creusot gun, and had several light skirmishes. The enemy, however, concentrated
the fire of a few batteries on us, and our guns were soon silenced.

General L. Meyer had arrived with some reinforcements close to Helpmakaar, but the position
had never been strengthened, and the sole defending force consisted of the Piet Retief burghers,
known as the "Piet Retreaters," together with a small German corps. The result was easy to
predict. The attack was made, and we lost the position without seriously attempting to defend
it. Buller was now, therefore, in possession of the key to the Boer position in Natal, a position
which we had occupied for two months--and could therefore, have fortified to perfection--and
whose strategic importance should have been known in its smallest details. I think our generals,
who had a sufficient force at their disposal, of which the mobility has become world-famed,
should have been able to prevent such a fiasco as our occupation of the splendid line of defence
in the Biggarsbergen turned out to be.

Here, for the first time in the war, General Buller utilised his success, and followed up our
men as they were retreating on Dundee. He descended by the main waggon track from Helpmakaar,
and drove the commandos like sheep before him. I myself was obliged to move away in hot haste
and join the general retreat. Once or twice our men attempted to make a stand, but with little
success.

When we reached Dundee the enemy gradually slackened off pursuit, and at dark we were clear
of them. Satisfied with their previous day's success, and sadly hampered by their enormous
convoys, the English now allowed us to move on at our leisure.

CHAPTER XIV.

DISPIRITED AND DEMORALISED.

Our first intention was to proceed to Vereeniging, there to join General Botha's forces. At
Klip River Station, that preceding Vereeniging, I was ordered, however, to leave my carts behind
and proceed with my men to Vaalbank, as the enemy were advancing with forced marches, and had
compelled all the other commandos to fall back on Vereeniging.

On our way we met groups of retreating burghers, each of whom gave us a different version of
the position. Some said that the enemy had already swept past Vereeniging, others that they
could not now be stopped until they reached Johannesburg. Further on, we had the good fortune
to encounter General Botha and his staff. The General ordered me to take up a position at the
Gatsrand, near the Nek at Pharaohsfontein, as the British, having split their forces up into
two parts, would send one portion to cross the Vaal River at Lindeque's Drift, whilst the other
detachments would follow the railway past Vereeniging. Generals Lemmer and Grobler were already
posted at the Gatsrand to obstruct the enemy's progress.

I asked General Botha how we stood. He sighed, and answered: "If only the burghers would fight
we could stop them easily enough; but I cannot get a single burgher to start fighting. I hope
their running mood will soon change into a fighting mood. You keep your spirits up, and let
us do our duty."

"All right, General," I answered, and we shook hands heartily.

We rode on through the evening and at midnight halted at a farm to give our horses rest and
fodder. The owner of the farm was absent on duty, and his family had been left behind. On our
approach the women-folk, mistaking us for Englishmen, were terrified out of their wits. Remembering
the atrocities and horrors committed in Natal on the advance of the Imperial troops, they awaited
the coming of the English with the greatest terror. On the approach of the enemy many women
and children forsook their homes and wandered about in caves and woods for days, exposed to
every privation and inclemency of the weather, and to the attacks of wandering bands of plundering
kaffirs.

Mrs. van der Merwe, whom we met here, was exceedingly kind to us, and gave us plenty of fodder
for our horses. We purchased some sheep, and slaughtered them and enjoyed a good meal before
sunrise; and each one of us bore away a good-sized piece of mutton as provisions for the future.

Our scouts, whom we had despatched over night, informed us that Generals Lemmer and Grobler
had taken up their stand to the right of Pharaohsfontein in the Gatsrand, and that the English
were approaching in enormous force.

By nine in the morning we had taken up our positions, and at noon the enemy came in sight.
Our commando had been considerably reduced, as many burghers, finding themselves near their
homes, had applied for twenty-four hours' leave, which had been granted in order to allow them
to arrange matters before the advance of the English on their farms made it impossible. A few
also had deserted for the time being, unable to resist the temptation of visiting their families
in the neighbourhood.

Some old burghers approached us and hailed us with the usual "Morning, boys! Which commando
do you belong to?"

"Viljoen's."

"We would like to see your Commandant," they answered.

Presenting myself, I asked: "Who are you, and where do you come from, and where are you going to?"

They answered: "We are scouts of General Lemmer and we came to see who is holding this position."

"But surely General Lemmer knows that I am here?"

"Very probably," they replied, "but we wanted to know for ourselves; we thought we might find
some of our friends amongst you. You come from Natal, don't you?"

"Yes," I answered sadly. "We have come to reinforce the others, but I fear we can be of little
use. It seems to me that it will be here as it was in Natal; all running and no fighting."

"Alas!" they said, "the Free Staters will not remain in one position, and we must admit the
Transvaalers are also very disheartened. However, if the British once cross our frontiers you
will find that the burghers will fight to the bitter end."

Consoled by this pretty promise we made up our minds to do our best, but our outposts presently
brought word that the British were bearing to the right and nearing General Grobler's position,
and had passed round that of General Lemmer. Whilst they attacked General Grobler's we attacked
their flank, but we could not do much damage, as we were without guns. Soon after the enemy
directed a heavy artillery fire on us, to which we, being on flat ground, found ourselves dangerously
exposed.

Towards evening the enemy were in possession of General Grobler's position, and were passing
over the Gatsrand, leaving us behind. I ordered my commando to fall back on Klipriversberg,
while I rode away with some adjutants to attempt to put myself in communication with the other
commandos.

The night was dark and cloudy, which rendered it somewhat difficult for us to move about in
safety. We occasionally fell into ditches and trenches, and had much trouble with barbed wire.
However, we finally fell in with General Lemmer's rearguard, who informed us that the enemy,
after having overcome the feeble resistance of General Grobler, had proceeded north, and all
the burghers were retreating in haste before them.

We rode on past the enemy to find General Grobler and what his plans were. We rode quite close
to the English camp, as we knew that they seldom posted sentries far from their tents. On this
occasion, however, they had placed a guard in an old "klipkraal," for them a prodigious distance
from their camp, and a "Tommy" hailed us from the darkness.--

"Halt, who goes there?"

I replied "Friend," whereupon the guileless soldier answered:

"Pass, friend, all's well."

I had my doubts, however. He might be a Boer outpost anxious to ascertain if we were Englishmen.
Afraid to ride into ambush of my own men, I called out in Dutch:

"Whose men are you?"

The Tommy lost his temper at being kept awake so long and retorted testily, "I can't understand
your beastly Dutch; come here and be recognized." But we did not wait for identification, and
I rode off shouting back "Thanks, my compliments to General French, and tell him that his outposts
are asleep."

This was too much for the "Tommy" and his friends, who answered with a volley of rifle fire,
which was taken up by the whole line of British outposts. No harm was done, however, and we
soon rode out of range. I gave up looking for General Grobler, and on the following morning
rejoined my men at Klipriversberg.

It was by no means easy to find out the exact position of affairs. Our scouts reported that
the enemy's left wing, having broken through General Grobler's position, were now marching
along Van Wijk's Rust. I could, however, obtain no definite information regarding the right
wing, nor could I discover the General under whose orders I was to place myself. General Lemmer,
moreover, was suffering from an acute disease of the kidneys, which had compelled him to hand
over his command to Commandant Gravett, who had proved himself an excellent officer.

General Grobler had lost the majority of his men, or what was more likely the case, they had
lost him. He declared that he was unaware of General Botha's or Mr. Kruger's plans, and that
it was absurd to keep running away, but he clearly did not feel equal to any more fighting,
although he had not the moral courage to openly say so. From this point this gentleman did
no further service to his country, and was shortly afterwards dismissed. The reader will now
gather an idea of the enormous change which had come over our troops. Six months before they
had been cheerful and gay, confident of the ultimate success of their cause; now they were
downhearted and in the lowest of spirits. I must admit that in this our officers were no exception.

Those were dark days for us. Now began the real fighting, and this under the most difficult
and distressing circumstances; and I think that if our leaders could have had a glimpse of
the difficulties and hardships that were before us, they would not have had the courage to
proceed any further in the struggle.

Early next morning (the 29th May, 1900) we reached Klipspruit, and found there several other
commandos placed in extended order all the way up to Doornkop.

Amongst them was that of General De la Rey, who had come from the Western frontier of our Republic,
and that of General Snyman, whom I regard as the real defender and reliever of Mafeking, for
he was afraid to attack a garrison of 1,000 men with twice that number of burghers.

Before having had time to properly fortify our position we were attacked on the right flank
by General French's cavalry, while the left flank had to resist a strong opposing force of
cavalry. Both attacks were successfully repulsed, as well as a third in the centre of our fighting
line.

The British now marched on Doornkop, their real object of attack being our extreme right wing,
but they made a feint on our left. Our line of defence was very extended and weakened by the
removal of a body of men who had been sent to Natal Spruit to stop the other body of the enemy
from forcing its way along the railway line and cutting off our retreat to Pretoria.

The battle lasted till sunset, and was especially fierce on our right, where the Krugersdorpers
stood. Early in the evening our right wing had to yield to an overwhelming force, and during
the night all the commandos had to fall back. My commando, which should have consisted of about
450 men, only numbered 65 during this engagement; our losses were two men killed. I was also
slightly wounded in the thigh by a piece of shell, but I had no time to attend such matters,
as we had to retire in haste, and the wound soon healed.

The next day our forces were again in full retreat to Pretoria, where I understood we were
to make a desperate stand. About seven o'clock we passed through Fordsburg, a suburb of Johannesburg.

We had been warned not to enter Johannesburg, as Dr. Krause, who had taken from me the command
of the town, had already surrendered it to Lord Roberts, who might shell it if he found commandos
were there. Our larger commissariat had proceeded to Pretoria, but we wanted several articles
of food, and strange to say the commissariat official at Johannesburg would not give us anything
for fear of incurring Lord Roberts' displeasure!

I was very angry; the enemy were not actually in possession of the town, and I therefore should
have been consulted in the matter; but these irresponsible officials even refused to grant
us the necessaries of life!

At this time there was a strong movement on foot to blow up the principal mines about Johannesburg,
and an irresponsible young person named Antonie Kock had placed himself at the head of a confederacy
with this object in view. But thanks to the explicit orders of General L. Botha, which were
faithfully carried out by Dr. Krause, Kock's plan was fortunately frustrated, and I fully agree
with Botha that it would have been most impolitic to have allowed this destruction. I often
wished afterwards, however, that the British military authorities had shown as much consideration
for our property.

We had to have food in any case, and as the official hesitated to supply us we helped ourselves
from the Government Stores, and proceeded to the capital. The roads to Pretoria were crowded
with men, guns, and vehicles of every description, and despondency and despair were plainly
visible on every human face.

CHAPTER XV.

OCCUPATION OF PRETORIA.

The enemy naturally profited by our confusion to pursue us more closely than before. The prospect
before us was a sad one, and we asked ourselves, "What is to be the end of all this, and what
is to become of our poor people? Shall we be able to prolong the struggle, and for how long?"

But no prolongation of the struggle appeared to have entered into our enemy's minds, who evidently
thought that the War had now come upon its last stage, and they were as elated as we were downhearted.
They made certain that the Boer was completely vanquished, and his resistance effectually put
an end to.

Thus, not only did Lord Roberts announce to the world that "the War was now practically over,"
but Conan Doyle did not hesitate to say the same in more eloquent style.

How England utterly under-estimated the determination of the Boers, subsequent events have
plainly proved. It is equally plain that we ourselves did not know the strength of our resolution,
when one takes into account the pessimism and despair that weighed us down in those dark days;
and as the Union Jack was flying over our Government buildings we might have exclaimed:--"England,
we do not know our strength, but you know it still less!"

Nearly all the commandos were now in the neighbourhood of Pretoria, General Botha forming a
rearguard, and we determined to defend the capital as well as we could. But at this juncture
some Boer officer was said to have received a communication from the Government, informing
us that they had decided not to defend the town. A cyclist was taking this communication round
to the different commandos, but the Commandant-General did not seem to be aware of it, and
we tried in vain to find him so as to discover what his plans were. The greatest confusion
naturally prevailed, and as all the generals gave different orders, no one knew what was going
to be done. I believe General Botha intended to concentrate the troops round Pretoria, and
there offer some sort of resistance to the triumphant forces of the enemy, and we had all understood
that the capital would be defended to the last; but this communication altered the position
considerably. Shortly afterwards all the Boer officers met at Irene Estate, near Pretoria,
in a council of war, and were there informed that the Government had already forsaken the town,
leaving a few "feather-bed patriots" to formally surrender the town to the English.

I thought this decision of easy surrender ridiculous and inexplicable, and many officers joined
me in loud condemnation of it. I do not remember exactly all that happened at the time, but
I know a telegram arrived from the Commandant-General saying that a crowd had broken open the
Commissariat Buildings in Pretoria and were looting them. An adjutant was sent into Pretoria
to spread an alarm that the English were entering the town, and this had the effect of driving
all the looters out of it. Some of my own men were engaged in these predatory operations, and
I did not see them again until three days after.

The English approached Pretoria very cautiously, and directed some big naval guns on our forts
built round the town, to which we replied for some time with our guns from the "randten," south-west
of the town; but our officers were unable to offer any organised resistance, and thus on the
5th of June, 1900, the capital of the South African Republic fell with little ado into the
enemy's hands. Bloemfontein, the capital of the Orange Free State, had months before suffered
the same fate, and thousands of Free Staters had surrendered to the English as they marched
from Bloemfontein to the Transvaal. Happily, however, in the Free State President Steyn and
General De Wet were still wide awake and Lord Roberts very soon discovered that his long lines
of communication were a source of great trouble and anxiety to him. The commandos, meanwhile,
were reorganised; the buried Mausers and ammunition were once more resurrected, and soon it
became clear that the Orange Free State was far from conquered.

The fall of Pretoria, indeed, was but a sham victory for the enemy. A number of officials of
the Government remained behind there and surrendered, together with a number of burghers, amongst
these faint-hearted brethren being even members of the Volksraad and men who had played a prominent
part in the Republic's history; while to the everlasting shame of them and their race, a number
of other Boers entered at once into the English service and henceforth used their rifles to
shoot at and maim their own fellow-countrymen.

CHAPTER XVI.

BATTLE OF DONKERHOEK ("DIAMOND HILL").

Our first and best positions were now obviously the kopjes which stretched from Donkerhoek
past Waterval and Wonderboompoort. This chain of mountains runs for about 12 miles E. and N.E.
of Pretoria, and our positions here would cut off all the roads of any importance to Pietersburg,
Middelburg, as well as the Delagoa Bay railway. We therefore posted ourselves along this range,
General De la Rey forming the right flank, some of our other fighting generals occupying the
centre, whilst Commandant-General Botha himself took command of the left flank.

On the 11th of June, 1900, Lord Roberts approached with a force of 28,000 to 30,000 men and
about 100 guns, in order, as the official despatches had it, "to clear the Boers from the neighbourhood
of Pretoria." Their right and left flanks were composed of cavalry, whilst the centre was formed
of infantry regiments; their big guns were placed in good positions and their field pieces
were evenly distributed amongst the different army divisions.

Towards sunset they began booming away at our whole 13 miles of defence. Our artillery answered
their fire from all points with excellent results, and when night fell the enemy retired a
little with considerable losses.

The battle was renewed again next day, the enemy attempting to turn our right with a strong
flanking movement, but was completely repulsed. Meanwhile I at Donkerpoort proper had the privilege
of being left unmolested for several hours. The object of this soon became apparent. A little
cart drawn by two horses and bearing a white flag came down the road from Pretoria. From it
descended two persons, Messrs. Koos Smit, our Railway Commissioner and Mr. J. F. de Beer, Chief
Inspector of Offices, both high officials of the South African Republic. I called out to them
from a distance.

"Halt, you cannot pass. What do you want?"

Smit said, "I want to see Botha and President Kruger. Dr. Scholtz is also with us. We are sent
by Lord Roberts."

I answered Mr. Smit that traitors were not admitted on our premises, and that he would have
to stay where he was. Turning to some burghers who were standing near I gave instructions that
the fellows were to be detained.

Mr. Smit now began to "sing small," and turning deadly pale, asked in a tremulous voice if
there were any chance of seeing Botha.

"Your request," I replied, "will be forwarded." Which was done.

An hour passed before General Botha sent word that he was coming. Meanwhile the battle continued
raging fiercely, and a good many lyddite bombs were straying our way. The "white-flaggists"
appeared to be very anxious to know if the General would be long in coming, and if their flag
could not be hoisted in a more conspicuous place. The burghers guarding them pointed out, however,
that the bombs came from their own British friends.

After a while General Botha rode up. He offered a far from cordial welcome to the deputation.

Dr. Scholtz produced a piece of paper and said Lord Roberts had sent him to enquire why Botha
insisted on more unnecessary bloodshed, and why he did not come in to make peace, and that
sort of thing.

Botha asked if Scholtz held an authoritative letter or document from the English general, to
which the Doctor replied in the negative.

Smit now suggested that he should be allowed to see Mr. Kruger, but Botha declared, with considerable
emphasis, "Look here, your conduct is nothing less than execrable, and I shall not allow you
to see Mr. Kruger. You are a couple of contemptible scoundrels, and as for Dr. Scholtz, his
certificate looks rather dubious. You will go back and give the following message to Lord Roberts:--

     "That this is not the first time messages of this
     description are sent to me in an unofficial manner; that
     these overtures have also sometimes been made in an
     insulting form, but always equally unofficially. I have to
     express my surprise at such tactics on the part of a man in
     Lord Roberts' position. His Lordship may think that our
     country is lost to us, but I shall do my duty towards it all
     the same. They can shoot me for it or imprison me, or banish
     me, but my principles and my character they cannot assail."

One could plainly see that the conscience-stricken messengers winced under the reproach. Not
another word was said, and the noble trio turned on their heels and took their white flag back
to Pretoria.

Whether Botha was right in allowing these "hands-uppers" to return, is a question I do not
care to discuss, but many burghers had their own opinion about it. Still, if they had been
detained by us and shot for high treason, what would not have been said by those who did not
hesitate to send our own unfaithful burghers to us to induce us to surrender.

I cannot say whether Lord Roberts was personally responsible for the sending of these messengers,
but that such action was extremely improper no one can deny. It was a specially stupendous
piece of impudence on the part of these men, J. S. Smit and J. F. de Beer, burghers both, and
highly placed officials of the S. A. Republic. They had thrown down their arms and sworn allegiance
to an enemy, thereby committing high treason in the fullest sense of the word. They now came
through the fighting lines of their former comrades to ascertain from the commanders of the
republican army why the whole nation did not follow their example, why they would not surrender
their liberty and very existence as a people and commit the most despicable act known to mankind.

"Pretoria was in British hands!" As if, forsooth, the existence of our nationality began and
ended in Pretoria! Pretoria was after all only a village where "patriots" of the Smit and de
Beer stamp had for years been fattening on State funds, and, having filled their pockets by
means of questionable practices, had helped to damage the reputation of a young and virile nation.

Not only had they enjoyed the spoils of high office in the State Service offices, to which
a fabulous remuneration was attached, but they belonged to the Boer aristocracy, members of
honourable families whose high birth and qualities had secured for them preference over thousands
of other men and the unlimited confidence of the Head of State. Little wonder these gentlemen
regarded the fall of Pretoria as the end of the war!

The battle continued the whole day; it was fiercest on our left flank, where General French
and his cavalry charged the positions of the Ermelo and Bethel burghers again and again, each
time to be repulsed with heavy losses. Once the lancers attacked so valiantly that a hand-to-hand
fight ensued. The commandant of the Bethel burghers afterwards told me that during the charge
his kaffir servant got among the lancers and called upon them to "Hands up!" The unsophisticated
native had heard so much about "hands up," and "hands-uppers," that he thought the entire English
language consisted of those two simple words, and when one lancer shouted to him "Hands up,"
he echoed "Hands up." The British cavalryman thrust his lance through the nigger's arm, still
shouting "Hands up," the black man retreating, also vociferously shrieking "Hands up, boss;
hands up!"

When his master asked him why he had shouted "Hands up" so persistently though he was running
away, he answered: "Ah, boss, me hear every day people say, 'Hands up;' now me think this means
kaffir 'Soebat' (to beg). I thought it mean, 'Leave off, please,' but the more I shouted 'Hands
up' English boss prod me with his assegai all the same."

On our right General De la Rey had an equally awkward position; the British here also made
several determined attempts to turn his flank, but were repulsed each time. Once during an
attack on our right, their convoy came so close to our position that our artillery and our
Mausers were enabled to pour such a fire into them that the mules drawing the carts careered
about the veldt at random, and the greatest confusion ensued. British mules were "pro-Boer"
throughout the War. The ground, however, was not favourable for our operations, and we failed
to avail ourselves of the general chaos. Towards the evening of the second day General Tobias
Smuts made an unpardonable blunder in falling back with his commandos. There was no necessity
for the retreat; but it served to show the British that there was a weak point in our armoury.
Indeed, the following day the attack in force was made upon this point. The British had meantime
continued pouring in reinforcements, men as well as guns.

About two o clock in the afternoon Smuts applied urgently for reinforcements, and I was ordered
by the Commandant-General to go to his position. A ride of a mile and a half brought us near
Smuts; our horses were put behind a "randje," the enemy's bullets and shells meantime flying
over their heads without doing much harm. We then hurried up on foot to the fighting line,
but before we could reach the position General Smuts and his burghers had left it. At first
I was rather in the dark as to what it all meant until we discovered that the British had won
Smuts' position, and from it were firing upon us. We fell down flat behind the nearest "klips"
and returned the fire, but were at a disadvantage, since the British were above us. I never
heard where General Smuts and his burghers finally got to. On our left we had Commandant Kemp
with the Krugersdorpers; on the right Field-Cornet Koen Brits. The British tried alternately
to get through between one of my neighbours and myself, but we succeeded, notwithstanding their
fierce onslaught, in turning them back each time. All we could do, however, was to hold our
own till dark. Then orders were given to "inspan" all our carts and other conveyances as the
commandos would all have to retire.

I do not know the extent of the British losses in that engagement. My friend Conan Doyle wisely
says nothing about them, but we knew they had suffered very severely indeed. Our losses were
not heavy; but we had to regret the death of brave Field-Cornet Roelf Jansen and some other
plucky burghers. Dr. Doyle, referring to the engagement, says:

"'The two days' prolonged struggle (Diamond Hill) showed that there was still plenty of fight
in the burghers. Lord Roberts had not routed them," etc.

Thus ended the battle of Donkerhoek, and next day our commandos were falling back to the north.

CHAPTER XVII.

I BECOME A GENERAL.

In our retreat northwards the English did not pursue us. They contented themselves by fortifying
the position we had evacuated between Donkerhoek and Wonderboompoort. Meantime our commandos
proceeded along the Delagoa Bay Railway until we reached Balmoral Station, while other little
divisions of ours were at Rhenosterkop, north of Bronkhorst Spruit.

I may state that this general retreat knocked the spirit out of some of our weaker brethren.
Hundreds of Boers rode into Pretoria with the white flag suspended from their Mauser barrels.
In Pretoria there were many prominent burghers who had readily accepted the new conditions,
and these were employed by the British to induce other Boers within reach, by manner of all
sorts of specious promises, to lay down their arms. Many more western district Boers quietly
returned to their homes. Luckily, the Boer loves his Mauser too well to part with it, except
on compulsion, and although the majority of these western Boers handed in their weapons, some
retained them.

They retained their weapons by burying them, pacifying the confiding British officer in charge
of the district by handing in rusty and obsolete Martini-Henris or a venerable blunderbuss
which nobody had used since ancestral Boer shot lions with it in the mediæval days of the first
great trek. The buried Mausers came in very useful afterwards.

About this time General Buller entered the Republic from the Natal side, and marched with his
force through the southern districts of Wakkerstroom, Standerton, and Ermelo. Hundreds of burghers
remained on their farms and handed their weapons to the British. In some districts, for instance,
at Standerton, the commandant and two out of his three field-cornets surrendered. Thus, not
only were some commandos without officers, but others entirely disappeared from our army. Still,
at the psychological moment a Joshua would appear, and save the situation, as, for instance,
in the Standerton district, where Assistant-Field-Cornet Brits led a forlorn hope and saved
a whole commando from extinction. The greatest mischief was done by many of our landdrosts,
who, after having surrendered, sent out communications to officers and burghers exhorting them
to come in.

The majority of our Boer officers, however, remained faithful to their vow, though since the
country was partly occupied by the British it was difficult to get in touch with the Commandant-General
or the Government, and the general demoralisation prevented many officers from asserting their
authority.

Generals Sarel Oosthuizen and H. L. Lemmer, both now deceased, were sent to the north of Pretoria,
to collect the burghers from the western districts, and to generally rehabilitate their commandos.
They were followed by Assistant-Commandant General J. H. De la Rey and State Attorney Smuts
(our legal adviser). It was at this point, indeed, that the supreme command of the western
districts was assumed by General De la Rey, who, on his way to the north, attacked and defeated
an English garrison at Selatsnek.

The "reorganisation" of our depleted commandos proceeded very well; about 95 per cent. of the
fighting Boers rejoined, and speedily the commandos in the western districts had grown to about
7,000 men.

But just a few weeks after his arrival in the West Krugersdorp district, poor, plucky Sarel
Oosthuizen was severely wounded in the battle of Dwarsvlei, and died of his wounds some time after.

General H. Lemmer, a promising soldier, whom we could ill spare, was killed soon after while
storming Lichtenburg under General De la Rey, an engagement in which we did not succeed. We
had much trouble in replacing these two brave generals, whose names will live for all time
in the history of the Boer Republics.

It is hardly necessary to dwell on the splendid work done by Assistant-Commandant-General De
la Rey in the western districts. Commandant-General Botha was also hard worked at this stage,
and was severely taxed reorganising his commandos and filling up the lamentable vacancies caused
by the deaths of Lemmer and Oosthuizen.

I have already pointed out that General De la Rey had taken with him the remainder of the burghers
from the western districts. The following commandos were now left to us:--Krugersdorp and Germiston,
respectively, under the then Commandants J. Kemp and C. Gravett, and the Johannesburg police,
with some smaller commandos under the four fighting generals, Douthwaith, Snyman (of Mafeking
fame), Liebenberg, and Du Toit. The last four generals were "sent home" and their burghers
with those of Krugersdorp, Germiston, Johannesburg, Boksburg and the Mounted Police, were placed
under my command, while I myself was promoted to the rank of General. I had now under me 1,200
men, all told--a very fair force.

I can hardly describe my feelings on hearing of my promotion to such a responsible position.
For the first time during the War I felt a sort of trepidation. I had all sorts of misgivings;
how should I be able to properly guard the interests of such a great commando? Had I a right
to do so? Would the burghers be satisfied? It was all very well to say that they would have
to be satisfied, but if they had shown signs of dissatisfaction I should have felt bound to
resign. I am not in the habit of blinking at facts; they are stern things. What was to become
of me if I had to tender my resignation? I was eager and rash, like most young officers, for
although the prospects of our cause were not brilliant and our army had suffered some serious
reverses, I still had implicit faith in the future, and above all, in the justice of the cause
for which we were fighting. And I knew, moreover, that the burghers we now had left with us
were determined and firm.

There was only one way open to me: to take the bull by the horns. I thought it my duty to go
the round of all the commandos, call the burghers together, tell them I had been appointed,
ask them their opinion on the appointment, and give them some particulars of the new organisation.

I went to the Krugersdorp Commando first. All went well, and the burghers comprising the force
received me very cordially. There was a lot of questioning and explanations; one of the commandants
was so moved by my address that he requested those who were present to conclude the meeting
by singing Psalm 134, verse 3, after which he exhorted his fellow burghers in an impassioned
speech to be obedient and determined.

The worst of it was that he asked me to wind up by offering a prayer. I felt as if I would
gladly have welcomed the earth opening beneath me. I had never been in such a predicament before.
To refuse, to have pleaded exoneration from this solemn duty, would have been fatal, for a
Boer general is expected, amongst other things, to conduct all proceedings of a religious character.
And not only Boer generals are required to do this thing, but all subordinate officers, and
an officer who cannot offer a suitable prayer generally receives a hint that he is not worthy
of his position. In these matters the burghers are backed up by the parsons.

There was, therefore, no help for it; I felt like a stranger in Jerusalem, and resolved to
mumble a bit of a prayer as well as I could. I need not say it was short, but I doubt very
much whether it was appropriate, for all sorts of thoughts passed through my head, and I felt
as if all the bees in this world were buzzing about my ears. Of course I had to shut my eyes;
I knew that. But I had, moreover, to screw them up, for I knew that everybody was watching
me. I closed my eyes very tightly, and presently there came a welcome "Amen."

My old commando was now obliged to find a new commandant and I had to take leave of them in
that capacity. I was pleased to find the officers and men were sorry to lose me as their commandant,
but they said they were proud of the distinction that had been conferred upon me. Commandant
F. Pienaar, who took my place, had soon to resign on account of some rather serious irregularities.
My younger brother, W. J. Viljoen, who, at the time of writing, is, I believe, still in this
position, replaced him.

At the end of June my commandos marched from Balmoral to near Donkerhoek in order to get in
touch with the British. Only a few outpost skirmishes took place.

My burghers captured half a score of Australians near Van der Merwe Station, and three days
afterwards three Johannesburgers were surprised near Pienaarspoort. As far as our information
went the Donkerhoek Kopjes were in possession of General Pole-Carew, and on our left General
Hutton, with a strong mounted force, was operating near Zwavelpoort and Tigerspoort. We had
some sharp fighting with this force for a couple of days, and had to call in reinforcements
from the Middelburg and Boksburg commandos.

The fighting line by this time had widely extended and was at least sixty miles in length;
on my right I had General D. Erasmus with the Pretoria commando, and farther still to the right,
nearer the Pietersburg railway, the Waterberg and Zoutpansberg commandos were positioned. General
Pole-Carew tried to rush us several times with his cavalry, but had to retire each time. Commandant-General
Botha finally directed us to attack General Hutton's position, and I realised what this involved.
It would be the first fight I had to direct as a fighting general. Much would depend on the
issue, and I fully understood that my influence with, and my prestige among, the burghers in
the future was absolutely at stake.

General Hutton's main force was encamped in a "donk" at the very top of the randt, almost equidistant
from Tigerspoort, Zwavelpoort and Bapsfontein. Encircling his laager was another chain of "randten"
entirely occupied and fortified, and we soon realised what a large and entrenched stretch of
ground it was. The Commandant-General, accompanied by the French, Dutch, American and Russian
attachés, would follow the attack from a high point and keep in touch with me by means of a
heliograph, thus enabling Botha to keep well posted about the course of the battle, and to
send instructions if required.

During the night of the 13th of July we marched in the following order: On the right were the
Johannesburg and Germiston commandos; in the centre the Krugersdorp and the Johannesburg Police;
and on the left the Boksburg and Middelburg commandos. At daybreak I ordered a general storming
of the enemy's entrenchments. I placed a Krupp gun and a Creusot on the left flank, another
Krupp and some pom-poms to the right, while I had an English 15-pounder (an Armstrong) mounted
in the centre. Several positions were taken by storm with little or no fighting. It was my
right flank which met with the only stubborn resistance from a strongly fortified point occupied
by a company of Australians.

Soon after this position was in our possession, and we had taken 32 prisoners, with a captain
and a lieutenant. When Commandant Gravett had taken the first trenches we were stubbornly opposed
in a position defended by the Irish Fusiliers, who were fighting with great determination.
Our burghers charged right into the trenches; and a hand-to-hand combat ensued. The butt-ends
of the guns were freely used, and lumps of rock were thrown about. We made a few prisoners
and took a pom-pom, which, to my deep regret, on reinforcements with guns coming up to the
enemy, we had to abandon, with a loss of five men. Meanwhile, the Krugersdorpers and Johannesburg
Police had succeeded in occupying other positions and making several prisoners, while half
a dozen dead and wounded were left on the field.

The ground was so exposed that my left wing could not storm the enemy's main force, especially
as his outposts had noticed our march before sunrise and had brought up a battery of guns,
and in this flat field a charge would have cost too many lives.

We landed several shells into the enemy's laager, and if we had been able to get nearer he
would certainly have been compelled to run.

When darkness supervened we retired to our base with a loss of two killed and seven wounded;
whereas 45 prisoners and 20 horses with saddles and accoutrements were evidence that we had
inflicted a severe loss upon the enemy. So far as I know, the Commandant-General was satisfied
with my work. On the day after the fight I met an attaché. He spoke in French, of which language
I know nothing. My Gallic friend then tried to get on in English, and congratulated me in the
following terms with the result of the fight: "I congratuly very much you, le Général; we think
you good man of war." It was the first time I had bulked in anyone's opinion as largely as
a battleship; but I suppose his intentions were good enough.

A few days afterwards Lord Roberts sent a hundred women and children down the line to Van der
Merwe Station, despite Botha's vehement protests. It fell to my lot to receive these unfortunates,
and to send them on by rail to Barberton, where they could find a home. I shall not go into
a question which is still sub judice; nor is it my present purpose to discuss the fairness
and unfairness of the war methods employed against us. I leave that to abler men. I shall only
add that these waifs were in a pitiful position, as they had been driven from their homes and
stripped of pretty nearly everything they possessed.

Towards the end of July Carrington marched his force to Rustenburg, and thence past Wonderboompoort,
while another force proceeded from Olifantsfontein in the direction of Witbank Station. We
were, therefore, threatened on both sides and obliged to fall back on Machadodorp.

CHAPTER XVIII.

OUR CAMP BURNED OUT.

The beginning of August saw my commandos falling back on Machadodorp. Those of Erasmus and
Grobler remained where they were for the time being, until the latter was discharged for some
reason or other and replaced by Attorney Beyers. General Erasmus suffered rather worse, for
he was deprived of his rank as a general and reduced to the level of a commandant on account
of want of activity.

Our retreat to Machadodorp was very much like previous experiences of the kind; we were continually
expecting to be cut off from the railway by flanking movements and this we had to prevent because
we had placed one of our big guns on the rails in an armour-clad railway carriage. The enemy
took care to keep out of rifle range, and the big gun was an element of strength we could ill
afford to lose. Besides, our Government were now moving about on the railway line near Machadodorp,
and we had to check the enemy at all hazards from stealing a march on us. Both at Witbank Station
and near Middelburg and Pan Stations we had skirmishes, but not important enough to describe
in detail.

After several unsuccessful attempts, the Boer Artillery at last managed to fire the big gun
without a platform. It was tedious work, however, as "Long Tom" was exceedingly heavy, and
it usually took twenty men to serve it. The mouth was raised from the "kastion" by means of
a pulley, and the former taken away; then and not till then could the gunner properly get the
range. The carriage vacuum sucking apparatus had to be well fixed in hard ground to prevent recoil.

The enemy repeatedly sent a mounted squad to try and take this gun, and then there was hard
fighting.

One day while we were manoeuvring with the "Long Tom," the veldt burst into flames, and the
wind swept them along in our direction like lightning. Near the gun were some loads of shells
and gunpowder, and we had to set all hands at work to save them. While we were doing this the
enemy fired two pom-poms at us from about 3,000 yards, vastly to our inconvenience.

As my commando formed a sort of centre for the remainder, Commandant-General Botha was, as
a rule, in our immediate neighbourhood, which made my task much easier, our generalissimo taking
the command in person on several occasions, if required, and assisting in every possible way.

The enemy pursued us right up to Wonderfontein Station (the first station south-west of Belfast),
about 15 miles from Dalmanutha or Bergendal, and waited there for Buller's army to arrive from
the Natal frontier.

We occupied the "randten" between Belfast and Machadodorp, and waited events. While we were
resting there Lord Roberts sent us 250 families from Pretoria and Johannesburg in open trucks,
notwithstanding the bitterly cold weather and the continual gusts of wind and snow. One can
picture to oneself the deplorable condition we found these women and children in.

But, with all this misery, we still found them full of enthusiasm, especially when the trucks
in which they had to be sent on down the line were covered with Transvaal and Free State flags.
They sang our National Anthem as if they had not a care in the world.

Many burghers found their families amongst these exiles, and some heartrending scenes were
witnessed. Luckily the railway to Barberton was still in our possession, and at Belfast the
families were taken over from the British authorities, to be sent to Barberton direct. While
this was being done near Belfast under my direction, the unpleasant news came that our camp
was entirely destroyed by a grass fire.

The Commandant-General and myself had set up our camp near Dalmanutha Station. It consisted
of twelve tents and six carts. This was Botha's headquarters, as well as of his staff and mine.
When we came to the spot that night we found everything burned save the iron tyres of the waggon
wheels, so that the clothes we had on were all we had left us. All my notes had perished, as
well as other documents of value. I was thus deprived of the few indispensable things which
had remained to me, for at Elandslaagte my "kit" had also fallen into the hands of the British.
The grass had been set on fire by a kaffir to the windward of the camp. The wind had turned
everything into a sea of fire in less than no time, and the attempts at stamping out the flames
had been of no avail. One man gave us a cart, another a tent; and the harbour at Delagoa Bay
being still open (although the Portuguese had become far from friendly towards us after the
recent British victories) we managed to get the more urgent things we wanted. Within a few
days we had established a sort of small camp near to headquarters.

We had plenty to do at this time--building fortresses and digging trenches for the guns. This
of course ought to have been done when we were still at Donkerhoek by officers the Commandant-General
had sent to Machadodorp for the purpose. We had made forts for our "Long Toms," which were
so well hidden from view behind a rand that the enemy had not discovered them, although a tunnel
would have been necessary in order to enable us to use them in shelling the enemy. We were
therefore obliged to set to work again, and the old trenches were abandoned. The holes may
surprise our posterity, by the way, as a display of the splendid architectural abilities of
their ancestors.

CHAPTER XIX.

BATTLE OF BERGENDAL (MACHADODORP).

Let us pass on to the 21st of August, 1900. Buller's army had by this time effected a junction
with that of Lord Roberts' between Wonderfontein and Komati River. The commandos under Generals
Piet Viljoen and Joachim Fourie had now joined us, and taken up a position on our left, from
Rooikraal to Komati Bridge. The enemy's numbers were estimated at 60,000, with about 130 guns,
including twelve 4·7 naval guns, in addition to the necessary Maxims.

We had about 4,000 men at the most with six Maxims and about thirteen guns of various sizes.
Our extreme left was first attacked by the enemy while they took possession of Belfast and
Monument Hill, a little eastward, thereby threatening the whole of our fighting lines. My commandos
were stationed to the right and left of the railway and partly round Monument Hill. Fighting
had been going on at intervals all day long, between my burghers and the enemy's outposts.
The fighting on our left wing lasted till late in the afternoon, when the enemy was repulsed
with heavy losses; while a company of infantry which had pushed on too far during the fighting,
through some misunderstanding or something of that sort, were cut off and captured by the Bethel
burghers.

The attack was renewed the next morning, several positions being assailed in turn, while an
uninterrupted gunfire was kept up. General Duller was commanding the enemy's right flank and
General French was in charge of the left. We were able to resist all attacks and the battle
went on for six days without a decisive result. The enemy had tried to break through nearly
every weak point in our fighting line and found out that the key to all our positions existed
in a prominent "randje" to the right of the railway. This point was being defended by our brave
Johannesburg police, while on the right were the Krugersdorpers and Johannesburgers and to
the left the burghers from Germiston. Thus we had another "Spion Kop" fight for six long days.
The Boers held their ground with determination, and many charges were repulsed by the burghers
with great bravery. But the English were not to be discouraged by the loss of many valiant
soldiers and any failure to dislodge the Boers from the "klip-kopjes." They were admirably
resolute; but then they were backed up by a superior force of soldiers and artillery.

On the morning of the 27th of August the enemy were obviously bent on concentrating their main
force on this "randje." There were naval guns shelling it from different directions, while
batteries of field-pieces pounded away incessantly. The "randje" was enveloped by a cloud of
smoke and dust. The British Infantry charged under cover of the guns, but the Police and burghers
made a brave resistance. The booming of cannon went on without intermission, and the storming
was repeated by regiment upon regiment. Our gallant Lieutenant Pohlman was killed in this action,
and Commandant Philip Oosthuizen was wounded while fighting manfully against overwhelming odds
at the head of his burghers. An hour before sunset the position fell into the hands of the
enemy. Our loss was heavy--two officers, 18 men killed or wounded, and 20 missing.

Thus ended one of the fiercest fights of the war. With the exception of the battle of Vaalkrantz
(on the Tugela) our commandos had been exposed to the heaviest and most persistent bombardment
they had yet experienced. It was by directing an uninterrupted rifle fire from all sides on
the lost "randje" that we kept the enemy employed and prevented them from pushing on any farther
that evening.

At last came the final order for all to retire via Machadodorp.

CHAPTER XX.

TWO THOUSAND BRITISH PRISONERS RELEASED.

After the battle of Bergendal there was another retreat. Our Government, which had fled from
Machadodorp to Waterval Station, had now reached Nelspruit, three stations further down the
line, still "attended," shall I say, by a group of Boer officials and members of the Volksraad,
who preferred the shelter of Mr. Kruger's fugitive skirts to any active fighting. There were
also hovering about this party half a dozen Hebraic persons of extremely questionable character,
one of whom had secured a contract for smuggling in clothes from Delagoa Bay; and another one
to supply coffee and sugar to the commandos. As a rule, some official or other made a nice
little commission out of these transactions, and many burghers and officers expressed their
displeasure and disgust at these matters; but so it was, and so it remained. That same night
we marched from Machadodorp to Helvetia, where we halted while a commando was appointed to
guard the railway at Waterval Boven.

The next morning a big cloud of dust arose. "De Engelse kom" (the English are coming) was the
cry. And come they did, in overwhelming numbers. We fired our cannon at their advance guard,
which had already passed Machadodorp: but the British main force stayed there for the day,
and a little outpost skirmishing of no consequence occurred.

A portion of the British forces appeared to go from Belfast via Dullstroom to Lydenburg, these
operations being only feebly resisted. Our commandos were now parcelled out by the Commandant-General,
who followed a path over the Crocodile River bridge with his own section, which was pursued
by a strong force of Buller's.

I was ordered to go down the mountain in charge of a number of Helvetia burghers to try and
reach the railway, which I was to defend at all hazards. General Smuts, with the remnant of
our men went further south towards the road leading to Barberton. Early the next morning we
were attacked and again obliged to fall back. That night we stayed at Nooitgedacht.

The Boer position at and near Nooitgedacht was unique. Here was a great camp in which 2,000
English prisoners-of-war were confined, but in the confusion the majority of their Boer guards
had fled to Nelspruit. I found only 15 burghers armed with Martini-Henry rifles left to look
after 2,000 prisoners. Save for "Tommy" being such a helpless individual when he has nobody
to give him orders and to think for him, these 2,000 men might have become a great source of
danger to us had they had the sense to disarm their fifteen custodians (and what was there
to prevent them doing so?) and to destroy the railway, they would have been able not only to
have deprived my commando of provisions and ammunition, but also to have captured a "Long Tom."
There was, moreover, a large quantity of victuals, rifles, and ammunition lying about the station,
of which nobody appeared to take any notice. Of the crowd of officials who stuck so very faithfully
to the fugitive Government there was not one who took the trouble to look after these stores
and munitions.

On arrival I telegraphed to the Government to enquire what was to be done with the British
prisoners-of-war. The answer was: "You had better let them be where they are until the enemy
force you to evacuate, when you will leave them plenty of food."

This meant that there would be more D.S.O's or V.C's handed out, for the first "Tommies" to
arrive at the prisoners' camp would be hailed as deliverers, and half of them would be certain
of distinctions.

I was also extremely dissatisfied with the way the prisoners had been lodged, and so would
any officer in our fighting line have been had he seen their condition and accommodation. But
those who have never been in a fight and who had only performed the "heroic" duty of guarding
prisoners-of-war, did not know what humanity meant to an enemy who had fallen into their hands.

So what was I to do?

To disobey the Government's orders was impossible. I accordingly resolved to notify the prisoners
that, "for military reasons," it would be impossible to keep them in confinement any longer.

The next morning I mustered them outside the camp, and they were told that they had ceased
to be prisoners-of-war, at which they seemed to be very much amazed. I was obliged to go and
speak formally to some of them; they could scarcely credit that they were free men and could
go back to their own people. It was really pleasant to hear them cheer, and to see how pleased
they were. A great crowd of them positively mobbed me to shake hands with them, crying, "Thank
you, sir; God bless you, sir." One of their senior officers was ordered to take charge of them,
while a white-flag message was sent to General Pole-Carew to send for these fine fellows restored
to freedom, and to despatch an ambulance for the sick and wounded. My messenger, however, did
not succeed in delivering the letter, as the scouts of the British advance-guard were exceedingly
drunk, and shot at him; so that the prisoners-of-war had to go out and introduce themselves.
I believe they were compelled to overpower their own scouts.

Ten days afterwards an English doctor and a lieutenant of the 17th Lancers came to us, bringing
a mule laden with medical appliances and food. The English medico, Dr. Ailward, succeeded,
moreover, in getting through our lines without my express permission.

Next morning I accompanied an ambulance train to transport the wounded British to the charge
of the British agent at Delagoa Bay. Outside Nooitgedacht I found four military doctors with
a field ambulance.

"Does this officer belong to the Red Cross?" I asked.

"No," was the answer, "he is only with us quite unofficially as a sympathetic friend."

"I regret," said I, "that I cannot allow this thing; you have come through our lines without
my permission; this officer no doubt is a spy."

I wired at once for instructions, which, when received read: "That as a protest against the
action of the English officers who stopped three of our ambulances, and since this officer
has passed through our lines without permission, you are to stop the ambulance and dispatch
the doctors and their staff, as well as the wounded to Lourenco Marques."

The doctors were very angry and protested vehemently against the order, which, however, was
irrevocable. And thus the whole party, including the Lancers' doctor, were sent to Lourenco
Marques that very day. The nearest English General was informed of the whole incident, and
he sent a very unpleasant message the next day, of which I remember the following phrases:--

"The action which you have taken in this matter is contrary to the rules of civilised warfare,
and will alter entirely the conditions upon which the War was carried on up to the present," etc.

After I had sent my first note we found, on inspection, some Lee-Metford cartridges and an
unexploded bomb in the ambulance vans. This fact alone would have justified the retention of
the ambulance.

This was intimated again in our reply to General Pole-Carew, and I wrote, inter alia: "Re the
threat contained in your letter of the ... I may say I am sorry to find such a remark coming
from your side, and I can assure you that whatever may happen my Government, commandants, and
burghers are firmly resolved to continue the War on our side in the same civilised and humane
manner as it has hitherto been conducted."

This was the end of our correspondence in regard to this subject, and nothing further happened,
save that the English very shortly afterwards recovered five out of the eight ambulances we
had retained.

CHAPTER XXI.

A GOVERNMENT IN FLIGHT.

About this time President Steyn arrived from the Orange Free State and had joined President
Kruger, and the plan of campaign for the future was schemed. It was also decided that Mr. Schalk
Burger should assume the acting Presidentship, since Mr. Kruger's advanced age and feeble health
did not permit his risking the hardships attendant on a warlike life on the veldt.

It was decided Mr. Kruger should go to Europe and Messrs. Steyn and Burger should move about
with their respective commandos. They were younger men and the railway, would soon have to
be abandoned.

We spent the first weeks of September at Godwan River and Nooitgedacht Station, near the Delagoa
Bay railway, and had a fairly quiet time of it. General Buller had meanwhile pushed on with
his forces via Lydenburg in the direction of Spitskop and the Sabi, on which General Botha
had been compelled to concentrate himself after falling back, fighting steadily, while General
French threatened Barberton.

I had expected Pole-Carew to force me off the railway line along which we held some rather
strong positions, and I intended to offer a stout resistance. But the English general left
me severely alone, went over Dwaalheuvel by an abandoned wagon-track, and crossed the plateau
of the mountains, probably to try and cut us off through the pass near Duivelskantoor. I tried
hard, with the aid of 150 burghers, to thwart his plans and we had some fighting. But the locality
was against us, and the enemy with their great force of infantry and with the help of their
guns forced us to retire.

About the 11th of September I was ordered to fall back along the railway, via Duivelskantoor
and Nelspruit Station, since General Buller was threatening Nelspruit in the direction of Spitskop,
while General French, with a great force, was nearing Barberton. It appeared extremely likely
that we should be surrounded very soon. We marched through the Godwan River and over the colossal
mountain near Duivelskantoor, destroying the railway bridges behind us. The road we followed
was swamped by the heavy rains and nearly impassable. Carts were continually being upset, breakdowns
were frequent, and our guns often stuck in the swampy ground. To make matters worse, a burgher
on horseback arrived about midnight to tell us that Buller's column had taken Nelspruit Station,
and cut off our means of retreat. Yet we had to pass Nelspruit; there was no help for it. I
gave instructions for the waggons and carts (numbering over a hundred), to push on as quickly
as possible, and sent out a strong mounted advance guard to escort them.

I myself went out scouting with some burghers, for I wanted to find out before daybreak whether
Nelspruit was really in the hands of the enemy or not. In that case our carts and guns would
have to be destroyed or hidden, while the commando would have to escape along the footpaths.
We crept up to the station, and just at dawn, when we were only a hundred paces away from it,
a great fire burst out, accompanied by occasional loud reports. This somewhat reassured me.
I soon found our own people to be in possession burning things, and the detonations were obviously
not caused by the bursting of shells fired from field-pieces. On sending two of my adjutants--Rokzak
and Koos Nel--to the station to obtain further details, they soon came back to report that
there was nobody there except a nervous old Dutchman. The burgher, who had told me Nelspruit
was in the hands of the enemy, must have dreamt it.

The conflagration I found was caused by a quantity of "kastions" and ammunition-waggons which
had been set afire on the previous day, while the explosions emanated from the shells which
had been left among their contents.

The enemy's advance guard had pushed on to Shamoham and Sapthorpe, about 12 miles from the
railway, enabling the whole of my commando to pass. We arrived at Nelspruit by eight o'clock.
That day we rested and discussed future operations, feeling that our prospects seemed to grow
worse every day.

The station presented a sad spectacle. Many trucks loaded with victuals, engines, and burst
gun-carriages--everything had been left behind at the mercy of the first-comer, while a large
number of kaffirs were plundering and stealing. Only the day before the Government had had
its seat there, and how desolate and distressing the sight was now! The traces of a fugitive
Government were unmistakable. Whatever might have been our optimism before, however little
inclination the burghers might have felt to surrender, however great the firmness of the officers,
and their resolve to keep the beloved "Vierkleur" flying, scenes like those at Nooitgedacht,
and again at Nelspruit, were enough to make even the strongest and most energetic lose all
courage. Many men could not keep back their tears at the disastrous spectacle, as they thought
of the future of our country and of those who had been true to her to the last.

Kaffirs, as I said, had been making sad havoc among the provisions, clothes and ammunition,
and I ordered them to be driven away. Amongst the many railway-waggons I found some loaded
with clothes the fighting burghers had in vain and incessantly been asking for, also cannon
and cases of rifle ammunition. We also came across a great quantity of things belonging to
our famous medical commission, sweets, beverages, etc. The suspicion which had existed for
some considerable time against this commission was, therefore, justified. There was even a
carriage which had been used by some of its members, beautifully decorated, with every possible
comfort and luxury, one compartment being filled with bottles of champagne and valuable wines.
My officers, who were no saints, saw that our men were well provided for out of these. The
remainder of the good things was shifted on to a siding, where about twenty engines were kept.
By great good luck the Government commissariat stock, consisting of some thousands of sheep,
and even some horses, had also been left behind. But we were not cheered.

Among the many questions asked regarding this sad state of affairs was one put by an old burger:

"Dat is nou die plan, want zooals zaken hier lyk, dan heeft die boel in wanhoop gevlug." ("Is
that the plan, then? For from what I can see of it, they have all fled in despair.")

I answered, "Perhaps they were frightened away, Oom."

"Ja," he said, "but look, General, it seems to me as if our members of the Government do not
intend to continue the war. You can see this by the way they have now left everything behind
for the second time."

"No, old Oom," I replied, "we should not take any notice of this. Our people are wrestling
among the waves of a stormy ocean; the gale is strong, and the little boat seems upon the point
of capsizing, but, it has not gone down as yet. Now and then the boat is dashed against the
rocks and the splinters fly, but the faithful sailors never lose heart. If they were to do
that the dinghy would soon go under, and the crew would disappear for ever. It would be the
last page of their history, and their children would be strangers in their own country. You
understand, Oom?"

"Yes, General, but I shall not forget to settle up, for I myself and others with me have had
enough of this, and the War has opened our eyes."

"All right, old man." I rejoined, "nobody can prevent you surrendering, but I have now plenty
of work to do; so get along."

Burghers of different commandos who had strayed--some on purpose--passed us here in groups
of two or ten or more. Some of them were going to their own districts, right through the English
lines, others were looking for their cattle, which they had allowed to stray in order to evade
the enemy. I could only tell them that the veldt between Nelspruit and Barberton up to Avoca,
was, so far as I had been able to discover, full of cattle and waggons belonging to farmers
who now had no chance of escaping. Everybody wanted some information from the General.

About half a score of burghers with bridle horses then came up. There was one old burgher among
them with a long beard, a great veldt hat, and armed with a Mauser which seemed hardly to have
been used. He carried two belts with a good stock of cartridges, a revolver, and a tamaai (long
sjambok). This veteran strode up in grand martial style to where I was sitting having something
to eat. As he approached he looked brave enough to rout the whole British army.

"Dag!" (Good morning.) "Are you the General?" asked the old man.

"Yes, I have the honour of being called so. Are you a field-marshal, a Texas Jack, or what?"

"My name is Erasmus, from the Pretoria district," he replied, "and my nine comrades and myself,
with my family and cattle, have gone into the bush. I saw them all running away, the Government
and all. You are close to the Portuguese border, and my mates and I want to know what your
plans are."

"Well," Mr. Erasmus, I returned, "what you say is almost true; but as you say you and your
comrades have been hiding in the bush with your cattle and your wives, I should like to know
if you have ever tried to oppose the enemy yet, and also what is your right to speak like this."

"Well, I had to flee with my cattle, for you have to live on that as well as I."

"Right," said I; "what do you want, for I do not feel inclined to talk any longer."

"I want to know," he replied, "if you intend to retire, and if there is any chance of making
peace. If not, we will go straight away to Buller, and 'hands-up,' then we shall save all our
property."

"Well, my friend," I remarked, "our Government and the Commandant-General are the people who
have to conclude peace, and it is not for you or me, when our family and cattle are in danger,
to surrender to the enemy, which means turning traitor to your own people."

"Well, yes; good-bye, General, we are moving on now."

I sent a message to our outposts to watch these fellows, and to see if they really were going
over to the enemy. And, as it happened, that same night my Boers came to camp with the Mausers
and horses Erasmus and his party had abandoned. They had gone over to Buller.

The above is but an instance illustrating what often came under my notice during the latter
period of my command. This sort of burgher, it turned out, invariably belonged to a class that
never meant to fight. In many cases we could do better without them, for it was always these
people who wanted to know exactly what was "on the cards," and whenever things turned out unpleasantly,
they only misled and discouraged others. Obviously, we were better off without them.

CHAPTER XXII.

AN IGNOMINIOUS DISPERSAL.

Commandant-General Botha, who was then invalided at Hector's Spruit Station, now sent word
that we were to join him there without delay. He said I could send part of the commando by
train, but the railway arrangements were now all disturbed, and everything was in a muddle.
As nothing could be relied on in the way of transport, the greater number of the men and most
of the draught beasts had to "trek."

At Crocodile Gat Station the situation was no better than at Nelspruit, and the same might
be said of Kaapmuiden. Many of the engine drivers, and many of the burghers even, who were
helping in destroying the barrels of spirits at the stations, were so excited (as they put
it) through the fumes of the drink, that the strangest things were happening. Heavily-laden
trains were going at the rate of 40 miles an hour. A terrible collision had happened between
two trains going in different directions, several burghers and animals being killed. Striplings
were shooting from the trains at whatever game they saw, or fancied they saw, along the line,
and many mishaps resulted. These things did not tend to improve matters.

It was not so much that the officers had lost control over their men. It seemed as if the Evil
Spirit had been let loose and was doing his very best to encourage the people to riotous enjoyment.

Hector's Spruit is the last station but one before you come to the Portuguese frontier, and
about seventeen miles from Ressano Garcia. Here every commando stopped intending of course
to push on to the north and then to cross the mountains near Lydenburg in a westerly direction.
The day when I arrived at Hector's Spruit, President Steyn, attended by an escort of 100 men,
went away by the same route. Meanwhile General Buller was encamped at Glyn's mines near Spitskop
and the Sabi River, which enabled him to command the mountain pass near Mac Mac and Belvedere
without the slightest trouble, and to block the roads along which we meant to proceed. Although
the late Commandant (afterwards fighting General) Gravett occupied one of the passes with a
small commando, he was himself in constant danger of being cut off from Lydenburg by a flank
movement. On the 16th of September, 1900, an incident occurred which is difficult to describe
adequately. Hector Spruit is one of the many unattractive stations along the Delegoa Bay railway
situated between the great Crocodile river and dreary black "kopjes" or "randjes" with branches
of the Cape mountains intervening and the "Low Veldts," better known as the "Boschveldt." This
is a locality almost filled with black holly bushes, where you can only see the sky overhead
and the spot of ground you are standing on. In September the "boschveldt" is usually dry and
withered and the scorching heat makes the surroundings seem more lugubrious and inhospitable
than ever.

The station was crowded with railway carriages loaded up with all sorts of goods, and innumerable
passenger carriages, and the platform and adjoining places filled with agitated people. Some
were packing up, others unpacking, and some, again, were looting. The majority were, however,
wandering about aimlessly. They did not know what was happening; what ought to be done or would
be done; and the only exceptions were the officers, who were busily engaged in providing themselves
and their burghers with provisions and ammunition.

I now had to perform one of the most unpleasant duties I have ever known: that of calling the
burghers together and telling them that those who had no horses were to go by train to Komati
Poort, there to join General Jan Coetser. Those who had horses were to report themselves to
me the next morning, and get away with me through the low fields.

Some burghers exclaimed: "We are now thrown over, left in the 'lurch,' because we have not
got horses; that is not fair."

Others said they would be satisfied if I went with them, for they did not know General Coetser.

Commandant-General Botha did not see his way to let me go to Komati Poort, as he could not
spare me and the other commandos. Those of the men who had to walk the distance complained
very bitterly, and their complaints were well-founded. I did my best to persuade and pacify
them all, and some of them were crying like babies when we parted.

Komati Poort was, of course, the last station, and if the enemy were to drive them any further
they would have to cross the Portuguese border, and to surrender to the Portuguese; or they
could try to escape through Swaziland (as several hundreds did afterwards) or along the Lebombo
mountains, via Leydsdorp. But if they took the latter route then they might just as well have
stayed with me in the first place. It was along this road that General Coetser afterwards fled
with a small body of burghers, when the enemy, according to expectations, marched on Komati
Poort, and met with no resistance, though there were over 1800 there of our men with guns.

A certain Pienaar, who arrogated unto himself the rank of a general on Portuguese territory,
fled with 800 men over the frontier. These, however, were disarmed and sent to Lisbon.

The end of the struggle was ignominious, as many a burgher had feared; and to this day I pity
the men who, at Hector's Spruit, had to go to Komati Poort much against their will.

Fortunately they had the time and presence of mind to blow up the "Long Tom" and other guns
before going; but a tremendous lot of provisions and ammunition must have fallen into the hands
of the enemy.

At Hector's Spruit half a score of cannon of different calibre had been blown up, and many
things buried which may be found some day by our progeny. Our carts were all ready loaded,
and we were prepared to march next morning into the desert and take leave of our stores. How
would we get on now? Where would we get our food, cut off as we were from the railway, and,
consequently, from all imports and supplies? These questions and many others crossed our minds,
but nobody could answer them.

Our convoys were ready waiting, and the following morning we trekked into the Hinterland Desert,
saying farewell to commissariats and stores.

The prospect was melancholy enough. By leaving Hector's Spruit we were isolating ourselves
from the outer world, which meant that Europe and civilisation generally could only be informed
of our doings through English channels.

Once again our hopes were centred in our God and our Mausers.

Dr. Conan Doyle says about this stage of the war:--

     "The most incredulous must have recognised as he looked at
     the heap of splintered and shattered gunmetal (at Hector's
     Spruit) that the long War was at last drawing to a close."

And here I am, writing these pages seventeen months later, and the War is not over yet. But
Dr. Doyle is not a prophet, and cannot be reproached for a miscalculation of this character,
for if I, and many with me, had been asked at the time what we thought of the future, we might
have been as wide of the mark as Dr. Doyle himself.

CHAPTER XXIII.

A DREARY TREK THROUGH FEVERLAND.

The 18th of September, 1900, found us trekking along an old disused road in a northerly direction.
We made a curious procession, an endless retinue of carts, waggons, guns, mounted men, "voetgangers"
nearly three miles long. The Boers walking comprised 150 burghers without horses, who refused
to surrender to the Portuguese, and who had now joined the trek on foot. Of the 1,500 mounted
Boers 500 possessed horses which were in such a parlous condition that they could not be ridden.
The draught cattle were mostly poor and weak, and the waggons carrying provisions and ammunition,
as also those conveying the guns, could only be urged along with great difficulty. In the last
few months our cattle and horses had been worked hard nearly every day, and had to be kept
close to our positions.

During the season the veldt in the Transvaal is in the very worst condition, and the animals
are then poorer than at any other period. We had, moreover, the very worst of luck, kept as
we were in the coldest parts of the country from June till September, and the rains had fallen
later than usual. There was, therefore, scarcely any food for the poor creatures, and hardly
any grass. The bushveldt through which we were now trekking was scorched by an intolerable
heat, aggravated by drought, and the temperature in the daytime was so unbearable that we could
only trek during the night.

Water was very scarce, and most of the wells which, according to old hunters with us, yielded
splendid supplies, were found to be dried up. The veldt being burned out there was not a blade
of grass to be seen, and we had great trouble in keeping our animals alive. From time to time
we came across itinerant kaffir tribes from whom we obtained handfuls of salt or sugar, or
a pailful of mealies, and by these means we managed to save our cattle and horses.

When we had got through the Crocodile River the trek was arranged in a sort of military formation
enabling us to defend ourselves, had we been attacked. The British were already in possession
of the railway up to Kaapmuiden and we had to be prepared for pursuit; and really pursuit by
the British seemed feasible and probable from along the Ohrigstad River towards Olifant's Nek
and thence along the Olifant's River.

Our original plan was to cross the Sabi, along the Meritsjani River, over the mountains near
Mac Mac, through Erasmus or Gowyn's Pass and across Pilgrim's Rest, where we might speedily
have reached healthier veldt and better climatic conditions. President Steyn had passed there
three days previously, but when our advance guard reached the foot of the high mountains, near
Mac Mac, the late General Gravett sent word that General Buller with his force was marching
from Spitskop along the mountain plateau and that it would be difficult for us to get ahead
of him and into the mountains. The road, which was washed away, was very steep and difficult
and contained abrupt deviations so that we could only proceed at a snail's pace.

Commandant-General Botha then sent instructions to me to take my commando along the foot of
the mountains, via Leydsdorp, while he with his staff and the members of the Government would
proceed across the mountains near Mac Mac. General Gravett was detailed to keep Buller's advance
guard busy, and he succeeded admirably.

I think it was here that the British lost a fine chance of making a big haul. General Buller
could have blocked us at any of the mountain roads near Mac Mac, and could also have swooped
down upon us near Gowyn's Pass and Belvedere. At the time of which I write Buller was lying
not 14 miles away at Spitskop. Two days after he actually occupied the passes, but just too
late to turn the two Governments and the Commandant-General. It might be said that they could
in any case have, like myself, escaped along the foot of the mountains via Leydsdorp to Tabina
and Pietersburg, but had the way out been blocked to them near Mac Mac, our Government and
generalissimo would have been compelled to trek for at least three weeks in the low veldt before
they could have reached Pietersburg, during which time all the other commandos would have been
out of touch with the chief Boer military strategists and commanders, and would not have known
what had become of their military leaders or of their Government. This would have been a very
undesirable state of affairs, and would very likely have borne the most serious consequences
to us. The British, moreover, could have occupied Pietersburg without much trouble by cutting
off our progress in the low veldt, and barring our way across the Sabini and at Agatha. This
coup could indeed have been effected by a small British force. In the mountains they would,
moreover, have found a healthy climate, while we should have been left in the sickly districts
of the low veldt. And had we been compelled to stay there for two months we would have been
forced to surrender, for about the middle of October the disease among our horses increased
and so serious was the epidemic that none but salted horses survived. The enteric fever would
also have wrought havoc amongst us.

Another problem was whether all this would not have put an end to the war; we still had generals
left, and strong commandos, and it was, of course, very likely that a great number of Boers
driven to desperation would have broken through, although two-thirds of our horses were not
fit for a bold dash. Perhaps fifteen hundred out of the two thousand Boers would have made
good their escape, but in any case large numbers of wagons, guns, etc. would have fallen into
the British hands and our leaders might have been captured as well. The moral effect would
have caused many other burghers from the other commandos to have lost heart and this at a moment,
too, when they already required much encouragement.

This was my view of the situation, and I think Lord Roberts, or whoever was responsible, lost
a splendid opportunity.

As regards my commando at the foot of the Mauch Mountains we turned right about and I took
temporary leave of Louis Botha. It was a very affecting parting; Botha pressed my hand, saying,
"Farewell, brother; I hope we shall get through all right. God bless you. Let me hear from
you soon and frequently."

That night we encamped at Boschbokrand, where we found a store unoccupied, and a house probably
belonging to English refugees, for shop and dwelling had been burgled and looted. After our
big laager had been arranged, Boer fashion, and the camp fire threw its lurid light against
the weird dark outline of the woods, the Boers grouped themselves over the veldt. Some who
had walked twenty miles that day fell down exhausted.

I made the round of the laager, and I am bound to say that in spite of the trying circumstances,
my burghers were in fairly cheerful spirits.

I discussed the immediate prospects with the officers, and arranged for a different commando
to be placed in the advance guard each day and a different field-cornet in the rear. Boers
conversant with the locality were detailed to ride ahead and to scout and reconnoitre for water.

When I returned that night to my waggon the evening meal was ready, but for the first time
in my life I could eat nothing. I felt too dejected. My cook, Jan Smith, and my messmates were
curious to know the reason I did not "wade in," for they always admired my ferocious appetite.

It had been a tiring day, and I pretended I was not well; and soon afterwards I lay down to rest.

I had been sitting up the previous evening till late in the night, and was therefore in hopes
of dropping off to sleep. But whatever I tried--counting the stars, closing my eyes and doing
my best to think of nothing--it was all in vain.

Insurmountable difficulties presented themselves to me. I had ventured into an unhealthy, deserted,
and worst of all, unknown part of the country with only 2,000 men. I was told we should have
to cover 300 miles of this enteric-stricken country.

The burghers without horses were suffering terribly from the killing heat, and many were attacked
by typhoid and malarial fever through having to drink a lot of bad water; these enemies would
soon decimate our commando and reduce its strength to a minimum. And for four or five weeks
we should be isolated from the Commandant-General and from all white men.

Was I a coward, then, to lie there, dejected and even frightened? I asked myself. Surely, to
think nothing of taking part in a fierce battle, to be able to see blood being shed like water,
to play with life and death, one could not be without some courage? And yet I did not seem
to have any pluck left in me here where there did not seem to be much danger.

These and many similar thoughts came into my head while I was trying to force myself to sleep,
and I told myself not to waver, to keep a cool head and a stout heart, and to manfully go on
to the end in order to reach the goal we had so long kept in view.

Ah, well, do not let anybody expect a general to be a hero, and nothing else, at all times;
let us remember that "A man's a man for a' that," and even a fighting man may have his moments
of weakness and fear.

The next morning, about four o'clock, our little force woke up again. The cool morning air
made it bearable for man and beast to trek. This, however, only lasted till seven o'clock,
when the sun was already scorching, without the slightest sign of a breeze. It became most
oppressive, and we were scarcely able to breathe.

The road had not been used for twenty or thirty years, and big trees were growing in our path,
and had to be cut down at times. The dry ground, now cut up by the horses' hoofs, was turned
into dust by the many wheels, great clouds flying all round us, high up in the air, covering
everything and everybody with a thick layer of ashy-grey powder.

About nine o'clock we reached Zand River, where we found some good water, and stayed till dusk.
We exchanged some mealies against salt and other necessaries with some kaffirs who were living
near by the water. Their diminutive, deformed stature was another proof of the miserable climate
obtaining there.

There was much big game here; wild beasts, "hartebeest," "rooiboks" (sometimes in groups of
from five to twenty at a time), and at night we heard the roaring of lions and the howling
of wolves. Even by day lions were encountered. Now, one of the weakest points, perhaps the
weakest, of an Afrikander is his being unable to refrain from shooting when he sees game, whether
such be prohibited or not. From every commando burghers had been sent out to do shooting for
our commissariat, but a good many had slipped away, so that hundreds of them were soon hunting
about in the thickly-grown woods. The consequence was that, whenever a group of them discovered
game, it seemed as if a real battle were going on, several persons often being wounded, and
many cattle killed. We made rules and regulations, and even inflicted punishments which did
some good, but could not check the wild hunting instincts altogether, it being difficult to
find out in the dark bush who had been the culprits.

Meanwhile the trek went on very slowly. On the seventh day we reached Blyde River, where we
had one of the loveliest views of the whole "boschveldt." The river, which has its source near
Pilgrim's Rest and runs into the great Olifant's River near the Lomboba, owes its name to trekker
pioneers, who, being out hunting in the good old times, had been looking for water for days,
and when nearly perishing from thirst, had suddenly discovered this river, and called it Blyde
(or "Glad") River. The stream at the spot we crossed is about 40 feet wide, and the water as
pure as crystal. The even bed is covered with white gravel, and along both banks are splendid
high trees. The whole laager could outspan under their shade, and it was a delightful, refreshing
sensation to find oneself protected from the burning sun. We all drank of the delicious water,
which we had seldom found in such abundance, and we also availed ourselves of it to bathe and
wash our clothes.

In the afternoon a burgher, whose name I had better not mention, came running up to us with
his clothes torn to tatters, and his hat and gun gone. He presented a curious picture. I heard
the burghers jeer and chaff him as he approached, and called out to him: "What on earth have
you been up to? It looks as if you had seen old Nick with a mask on."

The affrighted Boer's dishevelled hair stood on end and he shook with fear.

He gasped: "Goodness gracious, General, I am nearly dead. I had gone for a stroll to do a bit
of hunting like, and had shot a lion who ran away into some brushwood. I knew the animal had
received a mortal wound, and ran after it. But I could only see a yard or so ahead through
the thick undergrowth, and was following the bloodstained track. Seeing the animal I put down
my gun and was stepping over the trunk of an old tree; but just as I put my foot down, lo!
I saw a terrible monster standing with one paw on the beast's chest. Oh, my eye! I thought
my last hour had come, for the lion looked so hard at me, and he roared so awfully. By jove,
General, if this had been an Englishman I should just have "hands-upped," you bet! But I veered
round and went down bang on my nose. My rifle, my hat, my all, I abandoned in that battle,
and for all the riches of England, I would not go back. General, you may punish me for losing
my rifle, but I won't go back to that place for anything or anybody."

I asked him what the lion had done then, but he knew nothing more. Another burgher who stood
by, remarked: "I think it was a dog this chap saw. He came running up to me so terrified that
he would not have known his own mother. If I had asked him at that moment he would not have
been able to remember his own name."

The poor fellow was roused to indignation, and offered to go with the whole commando and show
them the lion's trail. But there was no time for that, and the hero had a bad time of it, for
everybody was teasing and chaffing him, and henceforth he was called the "Terror of the Vaal."

We should have liked to have lingered a few days near that splendid and wholesome stream. We
wanted a rest badly enough, but it was not advisable on account of the fever, which is almost
invariably the penalty for sleeping near a river in the low veldt. One of the regulations of
our commando forbade the officers and men to spend the night by the side of any water or low
spot. It would also have been fatal to the horses, for sickness amongst them and fever always
coincide. But they did not always keep to the letter of these instructions. The burghers, especially
those who had been walking, or arriving at a river, would always quickly undress and jump into
the water, after which some of them would fall asleep on the banks or have a rest under the
trees. Both were unhealthy and dangerous luxuries. Many burghers who had been out hunting or
had been sent out provisioning, stayed by the riverside till the morning, since they could
dispense with their kit in this warm climate. They often were without food for twenty-four
hours, unless we happened to trek along the spot where they were resting. To pass the night
in these treacherous parts on an empty stomach was enough to give anybody the fever.

When we moved on from Blyde River many draught beasts were exhausted through want of food,
and we were obliged to leave half a dozen carts behind. This caused a lot of trouble as we
had to transfer all the things to other vehicles, and field-cornets did not like to take up
the goods belonging to other field-cornets' burghers, the cattle being in such a weak condition
that it made every man think of his own division. No doubt the burghers were very kind to their
animals, but they sometimes carried it too far, and the superior officers had often to interfere.

The distance from Blyde River to the next stopping place could not be covered in one day, and
we should have no water the next; not a very pleasant prospect. The great clouds of dust through
which we were marching overnight and the scorching heat in the daytime made us all long for
water to drink and to clean ourselves. So when the order came from the laager commandants:
"Outspan! No water to-day, my boys, you will have to be careful with the water on the carts.
We shall be near some stream to-morrow evening," they were bitterly disappointed.

When we got near the water the following day eight burghers were reported to be suffering badly
from the typhoid fever, five of them belonging to the men who were walking. We had a very insufficient
supply of ambulance waggons. I had omitted to procure a great number of these indispensable
vehicles on leaving Hector's Spruit, for there had been so many things to look after. We were
lucky to have with us brave Dr. Manning, of the Russian Ambulance, who rendered us such excellent
assistance, and we have every reason to be thankful to H.M. the Czarina of Russia for sending
him out. Dr. Manning had the patients placed in waggons, which had been put at his disposal
for this purpose, but notwithstanding his skilled and careful treatment, one of my men died
the following day, while the number of those who were seriously ill rose to fifteen. The symptoms
of this fatal illness are: headache and a numb feeling in all the limbs, accompanied by an
unusually high temperature very often rising to 104 and 106 degrees during the first 24 hours,
with the blood running from the patient's nose and ears, which is an ominous sign. At other
times the first symptom is what is commonly called "cold shivers."

We proceeded slowly until we came to the Nagout River, where the monotony and dreariness of
a trek through the "boschveldt" were somewhat relieved by the spectacle of a wide stream of
good water, with a luxurious vegetation along the banks. It was a most pleasant and refreshing
sight to behold. For some distance along the banks some grass was found, to which the half-starved
animals were soon devoting their attention. It was the sort of sweet grass the hunters call
"buffalo-grass," and which is considered splendid food for cattle. We pitched our camp on a
hill about one mile from the river, and as our draught-beasts were in want of a thorough rest
we remained there for a few days. We had been obliged to drive along some hundreds of oxen,
mules, and horses, as they had been unfit to be harnessed for days, and had several times been
obliged to leave those behind that were emaciated and exhausted.

From the Nagout River we had to go right up to the Olifant's River, a distance of about 20
miles, which took us three days. The track led all along through the immense bush-plain which
extends from the high Mauch Mountains in the west to the Lebombo Mountains in the east; and
yet one could only see a few paces ahead during all these days, and the only thing we could
discern was the summit of some mountain on the westerly or easterly horizon, and even the tops
of the Mauch and Lebombo Mountains one could only see by standing on the top of a loaded waggon,
and with the aid of a field-glass. This thickly-wooded region included nearly one-third of
the Transvaal, and is uninhabited, the white men fearing the unhealthy climate, while only
some miserable little kaffir tribes were found about there, the bulk being the undisputed territory
of the wild animals.

The Olifant's River, which we had to cross, is over 100 feet wide. The old track leading down
to it, was so thickly covered with trees and undergrowth that we had to cut a path through
it. The banks of the river were not very high, thus enabling us to make a drift without much
trouble. The bed was rocky, and the water pretty shallow, and towards the afternoon the whole
commando had crossed. Here again we were obliged to rest our cattle for a few days, during
which we had to fulfil the melancholy duty of burying two of our burghers who had died of fever.
It was a very sad loss and we were very much affected, especially as one left a young wife
and two little children, living at Barberton. The other one was a young colonial Afrikander
who had left his parents in the Cradock district (Cape Colony) to fight for our cause. We could
not help thinking how intensely sad it was to lose one's life on the banks of this river, far
from one's home, from relatives and friends, without a last grasp of the hand of those who
were nearest and dearest.

The Transvaaler's last words were:--

     "Be sure to tell my wife I am dying cheerfully, with a
     clear conscience; that I have given my life for the welfare
     of my Fatherland."

We had now to leave some draught cattle and horses behind every day, and the number of those
who were obliged to walk was continually increasing, till there were several hundred.

Near Sabini, the first river we came to after leaving Leydsdorp we secured twenty-four mules
which were of very great use to us under the circumstances. But the difficulty was how to distribute
them amongst the field-cornets. The men all said they wanted them very urgently, and at once
found the cattle belonging to each cart to be too thin and too weak to move. Yet the twenty-four
could only be put into two carts, and I had to solve the difficulty by asserting my authority.

It was no easy task to get over the Agatha Mountains and we had to rest for the day near the
big Letaba, especially as we had to give the whole file of carts, guns, etc., a chance of forming
up again. Here we succeeded in buying some loads of mealies, which were a real God-send to
our half-starved horses. I also managed to hire some teams of oxen from Boers who had taken
up a position with their cattle along the Letaba, which enabled us to get our carts out of
the Hartbosch Mountains as far as practicable. The task would have been too fatiguing for our
cattle. It took us two days before we were out of these mountains, when we camped out on the
splendid "plateau" of the Koutboschbergen, where the climate was wholesome and pleasant.

Here, after having passed a whole month in the wilderness of the low veldt, with its destructive
climate, it was as though we began a new life, as if we had come back to civilisation. We again
saw white men's dwellings, cultivated green fields, flocks of grazing sheep, and herds of sleek
cows.

The inhabitants of the country were not a little surprised, not to say alarmed, to find, early
one Sunday morning, a big laager occupying the plateau. A Boer laager always looks twice as
large as it really is when seen from a little distance. Some Boer lads presently came up to
ask us whether we were friends or enemies, for in these distant parts people were not kept
informed of what happened elsewhere.

"A general," said a woman, who paid us a visit in a trap, "is a thing we have all been longing
to see. I have called to hear some news, and whether you would like to buy some oats; but I
tell you straight I am not going to take "blue-backs" (Government notes), and if you people
buy my oats you will have to pay in gold."

A burgher answered her: "There is the General, under that cart; 'tante' had better go to him."

Of course I had heard the whole conversation, but thought the woman had been joking. The good
lady came up to my cart, putting her cap a little on one side, probably to favour us with a
peep at her beauty.

"Good morning. Where is that General Viljoen; they say he is here?"

I thought to myself: "I wonder what this charming Delilah of fifty summers wants," and got
up and shook hands with her, saying: "I am that General. What can I do for 'tante'?"

"No, but I never! Are you the General? You don't look a bit like one; I thought a General looked
'baing' (much) different from what you are like."

Much amused by all this I asked: "What's the matter with me, then, 'tante'?"

"Nay, but cousin (meaning myself) looks like a youngster. I have heard so much of you, I expected
to see an old man with a long beard."

I had had enough of this comedy, and not feeling inclined to waste any more civilities on this
innocent daughter of Mother Eve, I asked her about the oats.

I sent an adjutant to have a look at her stock and to buy what we wanted, and the prim dame
spared me the rest of her criticism.

We now heard that Pietersburg and Warmbad were still held by the Boers, and the road was therefore
clear. We marched from here via Haenertsburg, a little village on the Houtboschbergrand, and
the seat of some officials of the Boer Mining Department, for in this neighbourhood gold mines
existed, which in time of peace give employment to hundreds of miners.

Luckily, there was also a hospital at Haenertsburg, where we could leave half a dozen fever
patients, under the careful treatment of an Irish doctor named Kavanagh, assisted by the tender
care of a daughter of the local justice of the peace, whose name, I am sorry to say, I have
forgotten.

About the 19th of October, 1900, we arrived at Pietersburg, our place of destination.

CHAPTER XXIV.

PAINS AND PLEASURES OF COMMANDEERING.

We found Pietersburg to be quite republican, all the officials, from high to low, in their
proper places in the offices, and the "Vierkleur" flying from the Government buildings. The
railway to Warmbad was also in Boer hands. At Warmbad were General Beyers and his burghers
and those of the Waterberg district. Although we had no coals left, this did not prevent us
from running a train with a sufficient number of carriages from Pietersburg to Warmbad twice
a week. We used wood instead, this being found in great quantities in this part of the country.

Of course, it took some time to get steam up, and we had to put in more wood all the time,
while the boilers continually threatened to run dry. We only had two engines, one of which
was mostly laid up for repairs. The other one served to keep the commandos at Warmbad provided
with food, etc.

The Pietersburgers also had kept up telegraphic communication, and we were delighted to hear
that clothes and boots could be got in the town, as we had to replace our own, which had got
dreadfully torn and worn out on the "trek" through the "boschveldt." Each commandant did his
best to get the necessary things together for his burghers, and my quarters were the centre
of great activity from the early morning to late in the evening, persons who had had their
goods commandeered applying to the General and lodging complaints.

After we had been at Pietersburg for eight days, a delay which seemed so many months to me,
I had really had too much of it. The complaints were generally introduced by remarks about
how much the complainants' ancestors had done for the country at Boomplaats, Majuba, etc.,
etc., and how unfairly they were now being treated by having their only horses, or mules, or
their carriages, or saddles commandeered.

The worst of it was, that they all had to be coaxed, either with a long sermon, pointing out
to them what an honour and distinction it was to be thus selected to do their duty to their
country and their people, or by giving them money if no appeal to their generous feelings would
avail; sometimes by using strong language to the timid ones, telling them it would have to
be, whether they liked it or not.

Anyhow we got a hundred fine horses together at the cost of a good many imprecations. The complainants
may be divided into the following categories:--

1st. Those who really believed they had some cause of complaint.

2nd. Those who did not feel inclined to part with anything without receiving the full value
in cash--whose patriotism began and ended with money.

3rd. Those who had Anglophile tendencies and thought it an abomination to part with anything
to a commando (these were the worst to deal with, for they wore a mask, and we often did not
know whether we had got hold of the Evil One's tail or an angel's pinions), and

4th. Those who were complaining without reason. These were, as a rule, burghers who did not
care to fight, and who remained at home under all sorts of pretexts.

The complaints from females consisted of three classes:--

1st. The patriotic ones who did all they could--sensible ladies as they were--to help us and
to encourage our burghers, but who wanted the things we had commandeered for their own use.

2nd. The women without any national sympathy--a tiresome species, who forget their sex, and
burst into vituperation if they could not get their way; and

3rd. The women with English sympathies, carefully hidden behind a mask of pro-Boer expressions.

The pity of it was that you could not see it written on their foreheads which category they
belonged to, and although one could soon find out what their ideas were, one had to be careful
in expressing a decided opinion about them, as there was a risk of being prosecuted for libel.

I myself always preferred an outspoken complaint. I could always cut up roughly refer him to
martial law, and gruffly answer, "It will have to be like this, or you will have to do it!"
And if that did not satisfy him I had him sent away. But the most difficult case was when the
complaint was stammered under a copious flood of tears, although not supported by any arguments
worth listening to.

There were a good many foreign subjects at Pietersburg but they were mostly British, and these
persons, who also had some of their horses, etc., commandeered, were a great source of trouble,
for many Boer officers and burghers treated them without any ceremony, simply taking away what
they wanted for their commandos. I did not at all agree with this way of doing things, for
so long as a foreign subject, though an Englishman, is allowed to remain within the fighting
lines, he has a right to protection and fairness, and no difference ought to be made between
him and the burghers who stay at home, when there is any fighting to be done.

From Pietersburg we went to Nylstroom, a village on the railway to which I had been summoned
by telegram by the Commandant-General, who had arrived there on his way to the westerly districts,
this being the first I had heard of him after we had parted at the foot of the Mauchberg, near
Mac Mac.

I travelled by rail, accompanied by one of my commandants. The way they managed to keep up
steam was delightfully primitive. We did not, indeed, fly along the rails, yet we very often
went at the rate of nine miles an hour!

When our supply of wood got exhausted, we would just stop the train, or the train would stop
itself, and the passengers were politely requested to get out and take a hand at cutting down
trees and carrying wood. This had a delicious flavour of the old time stage coach about it,
when first, second, and third class passengers travelled in the same compartment, although
the prices of the different classes varied considerably. When a coach came to the foot of a
mountain the travellers would, however, soon find out where the difference between the classes
lay, for the driver would order all first-class passengers to keep their seats, second-class
passengers to get out and walk, and third-class passengers to get out and push.

We got to our destination, however, although the chances seemed to have been against it. I
myself had laid any odds against ever arriving alive.

At Nylstroom we found President Steyn and suite, who had just arrived, causing a great stir
in this sleepy little village, which had now become a frontier village of the territory in
which we still held sway.

A great popular meeting was held, which President Steyn opened with a manly speech, followed
by a no less stirring one from our Commandant-General, both exhorting the burghers to do their
duty towards their country and towards themselves by remaining faithful to the Cause, as the
very existence of our nation depended on it.

In the afternoon the officers met in an empty hall of the hotel at Nylstroom to hold a Council
of War, under the direction of the Commandant-General.

Plans were discussed and arrangements made for the future. I was to march at once from Pietersburg
to the north-westerly part of the Pretoria district, and on to Witnek, which would bring us
back to our old battle-grounds. The state of the commandos, I was told, in those parts was
very sad. The commandant of the Boksburg Commando had mysteriously fallen into the enemy's
hands, and with his treacherous assistance nearly the whole commando had been captured as well.
The Pretoria Commando had nearly shared this melancholy fate.

That same night we travelled to Pietersburg. After we had passed Yzerberg the train seemed
to be going more and more slowly, till we came to a dead stop. The engine had broken down,
and all we could do was to get out and walk the rest of the way. In a few hours' time, to our
great joy, the second, and the only other train from Pietersburg there was, came up.

After having convinced the engine-driver that he had to obey the General's orders, he complied
with our request to take us to Pietersburg, and at last, after a lot of trouble, we arrived
the following day. Our cattle and horses were now sufficiently rested and in good condition.
The commandos have been provided with the things they most urgently needed, and ordered to
be ready within two days.

CHAPTER XXV.

PUNISHING THE PRO-BRITISH.

During the first days of November, 1900, we went from Pietersburg to Witnek, about nineteen
miles north of Bronkhorst Spruit, in the Pretoria district. We had enjoyed a fortnight's rest,
which had especially benefited our horses, and our circumstances were much more favourable
in every respect when we left Pietersburg than when we had entered it.

The Krugersdorp Commando had been sent to its own district, from Pietersburg via Warmbad and
Rustenburg, under Commandant Jan Kemp, in order to be placed under General De la Rey's command.
Most of the burghers preferred being always in their own districts, even though the villages
scattered about were in the enemy's hands, the greater part of the homesteads burnt down and
the farms destroyed, and nearly all the families had been placed in British Concentration Camps;
and if the commanding officers would not allow the burghers to go to their own districts they
would simply desert, one after the other, to join the commando nearest their districts.

I do not think there is another nation so fondly attached to their home and its neighbourhood,
even though the houses be in ruins and the farms destroyed. Still the Boer feels attracted
to it, and when he has at last succeeded in reaching it, you will often find him sit down disconsolately
among the ruins or wandering about in the vicinity.

It was better, therefore, to keep our men somewhere near their districts, for even from a strategical
point of view they were better there, knowing every nook and cranny, which enabled them to
find exactly where to hide in case of danger. Even in the dark they were able to tell, after
scouting, which way the enemy would be coming. This especially gave a commando the necessary
self-reliance, which is of such great importance in battle. It has also been found during the
latter part of the War to be easier for a burgher to get provisions in his own district than
in others, notwithstanding the destruction caused by the enemy.

Commandant Muller, of the Boksburg Commando, one of those who were lucky enough to escape the
danger of being caught through the half-heartedness of the previous commandant (Dirksen), and
had taken his place, arrived at Warmbad almost the same moment. He proceeded via Yzerberg and
joined us at Klipplaatdrift near Zebedelestad.

I had allowed a field-cornet's company, consisting of Colonial Afrikanders, to accompany President
Steyn to the Orange Free State, which meant a reduction of my force of 350 men, including the
Krugersdorpers. But the junction with the Boksburg burghers, numbering about 200 men, somewhat
made up for it.

We went along the Olifant's River, by Israelskop and Crocodile Hill, to the spot where the
Eland's River runs into the Olifant's River, and thence direct to Witnek through Giftspruit.

The grass, after the heavy rains, was in good condition and yielded plenty of food for our
quadrupeds. Strange to say, nothing worth recording occurred during this "trek" of about 95
miles. About the middle of November we camped near the "Albert" silver mines, south of Witnek.

Commandant Erasmus was still in this part of the country with the remainder of the Pretoria
Commando. Divided into three or four smaller groups, they watched in the neighbourhood of the
railway, from Donkerhoek till close to Wilgeriver Station, and whenever the enemy moved out,
the men on watch gave warning and all fled with their families and cattle into the "boschveldt"
along Witnek.

It was these tactics which enabled the British Press to state that the Generals Plumer and
Paget had a brilliant victory over Erasmus the previous month; for, with the exception of a
few abandoned carts at Zusterhoek, they could certainly not have seen anything of Erasmus and
his commando except a cloud of dust on the road from Witnek to the "boschveldt."

I had instructions to reorganise the commandos in these regions and to see that law and order
were maintained. The reorganisation was a difficult work, for the burghers were divided amongst
themselves.

Some wanted a different commando, while others wanted to keep to Erasmus, who was formerly
general and who had been my superior, round Ladysmith. He, one of the wealthiest and most influential
burghers in the Pretoria district, did not seem inclined to carry out my instructions, and
altogether he could not get accustomed to the altered conditions. I did all I could in the
matter, but, so far as the Pretoria Commando was concerned, the result of my efforts was not
very satisfactory. Nor did the generals who tried the same thing after me get on with the reorganisation
while Erasmus remained in control as an officer. A dangerous element, which he and his clique
tolerated, was formed by some families (Schalkwyk and others) who, after having surrendered
to the enemy, were allowed to remain on their holdings, with their cattle, and to go on farming
as if nothing had happened. They generally lived near the railway between our sentry stations
and those of the enemy. These "voluntarily disarmed ones," as we called them, had got passes
from the enemy, allowing them free access to the British camps, and in accordance with one
of Lord Roberts' proclamations, their duty, on seeing any Boers or commandos, was, to notify
this at once to the nearest English picket, and also to communicate all information received
about the Boers. All this was on penalty of having their houses burnt down and their cattle
and property confiscated. Sometimes a brother or other relative of these "hands-uppers" would
call on them. The son of one of them was adjutant to Commandant Erasmus, and shared his tent
with him, while the adjutant often visited his parents during the night and sometimes by day;
the consequence being that the English always knew exactly what was going on in our district.
This situation could not be allowed to go on, and I instructed one of my officers to have all
these suspected families placed behind our commandos. Any male persons who had surrendered
to the enemy out of cowardice were arrested.

Most of them were court-martialled for high treason and desertion, and giving up their arms,
and fifteen were imprisoned in a school building at Rhenosterkop, which had been turned into
a gaol for the purpose. The court consisted of a presiding officer selected from the commandants
by the General, and of four members, two of whom had been chosen by the General and the President,
and two by the burghers.

In the absence of our "Staats-procureur," a lawyer was appointed public prosecutor.

Before the trial commenced the President was sworn by the General and the other four members
by the President. The usual criminal procedure was followed, and each sentence was submitted
for the General's ratification.

The court could decree capital punishment, in which case there could be an appeal to the Government.

There were other courts, constituted by the latter, but as they were moving about almost every
day, they were not always available, and recourse had then to be taken to the court-martial.

The fifteen prisoners were tried in Rhenosterkop churchyard. The trial lasted several days,
and I do not remember all the particulars of the various sentences, which differed from two
and a half to five years' imprisonment, I believe with the option of a fine. The only prison
we could send them to was at Pietersburg, and there they went.

The arresting and punishing of these people caused a great sensation in the different commandos.

It seems incredible, but it is a fact that many members of these traitors' families were very
indignant about my action in the matter, even sending me anonymous letters in which they threatened
to shoot me.

Although there was less treason after the conviction of these fifteen worthies had taken place,
there always remained an easy channel in the shape of correspondence between burghers from
the commandos and their relatives within the English fighting lines, carried by kaffir runners.
This could not be stopped so easily.

On the 19th of November, 1900, I attacked the enemy on the railway simultaneously at Balmoral
and Wilgeriver, and soon found that the British had heard of our plan beforehand.

Commandant Muller, who was cautiously creeping up to the enemy at Wilgeriver with some of his
burghers, and a Krupp gun, met with a determined resistance early in the morning. He succeeded,
indeed, in taking a few small forts, but the station was too strongly fortified, and the enemy
used two 15-pounders in one of the forts with such precision as to soon hit our Krupp gun,
which had to be cleared out of the fighting line.

The burghers, who had taken the small forts in the early morning, were obliged to stop there
till they could get away under protection of the darkness, with three men wounded. We did not
find out the enemy's losses.

We were equally unfortunate near Balmoral Station, where I personally led the attack.

At daybreak I ordered a fortress to be stormed, expecting to capture a gun, which would enable
us to fire on the station from there, and then storm it. In fact we occupied the fort with
little trouble, taking a captain and 32 men prisoners, besides inflicting a loss of several
killed and wounded, while a score more escaped. No two men are the same, and for that matter,
no man is symmetrically equal. His proportions are not exact duplicates of one another. For example,
he may have two arms and two legs, but each has different characteristics. His eyes may not
have the same angles or the same depth. His nose may be to the right and his mouth to the left.
His ears may be lopsided, with one close to the scalp and the other protruding outward. Not
one finger matches another and these discrepancies follow throughout his whole body. Although
this information is fairly evident, and probably not worthy of mention,
it showcases the introduction toward what is believed to be the reason
for such differences.

It has been found that the regular use of a particular body part warrants the growth of that limb.
It dismisses the common theory that the left side is generally smaller as it shows that it is not
discriminate, but rather dependent on usage. However, genetics plays a huge part in proportions
and it is simply a person's lifestyle that influences how his proportions will be exaggerated.
A man who does not endure hard labor, will have one arm that is generally an inch longer than his
other arm, whereas a woman has an arm length difference of nearly an inch and a half, as she
is accomadating to the need to carry a child.
Upon learning of these facts, we questioned them, and examined how these details helped or hindered
our own appearance, and whether or not they flattered or sustained our self-esteem. All the
body, from the roundness of a head, to the knobbyness of a knee,
appears to be a bit of Nature playing dress up with our body, arranging
them as she sees fit.

It is vain to believe our physical appearance compares to that of men who helped shape our
times:
"Ammon's great son one shoulder had too high; Such Ovid's nose, and, sir, you have an eye!" --

we can go through the history of men and conclude the following:
"Go on, obliging creatures, make me see All that disgraced my betters
met in me.

Say, for my comfort, languishing in bed. Just so immortal Maro held his head; And when I die,
be sure you let me know -- Homer (died three thousand years ago)
The body is shaped by an internal tailor, one that purposely places are limbs at disproptions, one
that experiments with the dimensions of our trunk...oval, round, or flat. One that decides
if our arms will be placed midline or toward the back, if our arms will be long or short. One that will
decide if we wak with a limb or with a drag. It is all relative and the simple adjustments to
the placement of our body in relation to other parts of our body
determines the sort of gait a person will possess.

If the elbows turn outward, and the legs shorter, a person might
appear to waddle and if the hips are not wide in girth, a person may
rock side to side while walking and his feet may land on a surface
with a thump, whereas if his hips are spread apart, his feet land
softly upon the ground.

With a simple turn of the spine, it effects one's ability to move
an arm in a certain direction or defines the sharpness in which he
can adjust his movements.

This will determine how he throws a ball or holds a weapon, or how
he will tolerate certain exercises.

How the body is shaped can declare how a person can withstand certain job performances and the
Army uses proportions to declare a person ineligible for service.
All these curiosities evoke a change of opinion toward a person's role in his/her body's dimensions
and instead of treating a person differently due to these differences, one must realize how genetics
and herediatary taints the blueprint of a person. One must not forget that a child is simply
a token of his parents and even the smallest of indifference is decided before he is coordinated
enough to control his movement. Therefore, it is these innate qualities, or inequalities of body
placements that a person becomes the shuffling gait that make them a true original.


The enemy's force had been estimated at 5,000 men, mostly mounted, who, quite against their
usual tactics, charged us so soon as they noticed us. Muller had to fall back again and again.
The enemy under General Paget, pursued us as if we were a lot of game, and it soon became apparent
that they had made up their mind to catch us this time. I sent our carts into the forest along
Poortjesnek to Roodelaager, and made a stand in the kopjes near Rhenosterkop.

On the 28th--the next day--General Paget pitched his camp near our positions, shelling us with
some batteries of field guns till dusk. The same evening I received information that a force
under General Lyttelton had marched from Middelburg and arrived near Blackwood Camp. This meant
that our way near Gourjsberg had been cut off. All we could do was to keep the road along Poortjesnek
well defended, for if the enemy were to succeed in blocking that as well, we would be in a
trap and be entirely cut up.

There was General Paget against us to the west, to the south there was Rhenosterkop with no
way out, and General Lyttelton to the east, while to the north there was only one road, running
between high chains and deep clefts. If General Paget were to make a flanking movement threatening
the road to the north, I should have been obliged to retire in hot haste, but we were in hopes
the General would not think of this. General Lyttelton only needed to advance another mile,
right up to the first "randts" of the mountain near Blackwood Camp, for his guns to command
our whole position, and to make it impossible for us to hold it. I had, however, a field-cornet's
company between him and my burghers, with instructions to resist as long as possible, and to
prevent our being attacked from behind, which plan succeeded, as luck would have it. My Krupp
and pom-pom guns had been repaired, or rather, patched up, though the former had only been
fired fourteen times when it was done up.

I placed the Johannesburgers on the left, the Police in the centre, and the Boksburgers on
the right. As I have already pointed out, these positions were situated in a row of small kopjes
strewn with big "klips," while the assailant would have to charge over a bare "bult," and we
should not be able to see each other before they were at 60 to 150 paces distant.

Next morning, when the day dawned, the watchmen gave the alarm, the warning we knew so well,
"The Khakis are coming!" The horses were all put out of range of the bullets behind the "randts."
I rode about with my officers in front of our positions, thus being able to overlook the whole
ground, just at daybreak.

It gave me a turn when I suddenly saw the gigantic army of "Khakis" right in front of us, slowly
approaching, in grand formation, regiment upon regiment, deploying systematically, in proper
fighting order, and my anxiety was mingled with admiration at the splendid discipline of the
adversary. This, then, was the first act in the bloody drama which would be played for the
next fifteen hours. The enemy came straight up to us, and had obviously been carefully reconnoitring
our positions.

General Paget seemed to have been spoiling for a fight, for it did not look as if he simply
meant to threaten our only outlet. His heavy ordnance was in position near his camp, behind
the soldiers, and was firing at us over their heads, while some 15-pounders were divided amongst
the different regiments. The thought of being involved in such an unequal struggle weighed
heavily on my mind. Facing me were from four to five thousand soldiers, well equipped, well
disciplined, backed up by a strong artillery; just behind me my men, 500 at the outside, with
some patched-up guns, almost too shaky for firing purposes.

But I could rely on at least 90 per cent. of my burghers being splendid shots, each man knowing
how to economise his store of ammunition, while their hearts beat warmly for the Cause they
were fighting.

The battle was opened by our Krupp gun, from which they had orders to fire the fourteen shells
we had at our disposal, and then "run." The enemy's heavy guns soon answered from the second
ridge. When it was broad daylight the enemy tried his first charge on the Johannesburg position,
over which my brother had the command, and approached in skirmishing order. They charged right
up to seventy paces, when our men fired for the first time, so that we could not very well
have missed our aim at so short a distance, in addition to which the assailants' outline was
just showing against the sky-line as he was going over the last ridge. Only two volleys and
all the Khakis were flat on the ground, some dead, others wounded, while those who had not
been hit were obliged to lie down as flat as a pancake.

The enemy's field-pieces were out of our sight behind the ridge which the enemy had to pass
in charging, and they went on firing without any intermission. Half an hour later the position
of the Johannesburg Police, under the late Lieutenant D. Smith, was stormed again, this time
the British being assisted by two field-pieces which they had brought up with them in the ranks
and which were to be used as soon as the soldiers were under fire. They came to within a hundred
paces. One of these guns, I think, I saw put up, but before they could get the range it had
to be removed into safety, for the attacking soldiers fared equally badly here as on our left
flank.

Then, after a little hesitation, they tried the attack on our right flank again, when Commandant
Muller and the Boksburgers and some Pretoria burghers, under Field-Cornet Opperman held the
position, but with the same fatal result to the attackers. Our fifteen-pounder, after having
been fired a few times, had given out, while our pom-pom could only be used from time to time
after the artilleryman had righted it.

I had a heliograph post near the left-hand position, one near the centre and the one belonging
to my staff on our extreme right. I remained near this, expecting a flank movement by General
Paget after his front attacks had failed. From this coign of vantage I was able to overlook
the whole of the fighting ground, besides which I was in constant touch with my officers, and
could tell them all the enemy's movements.

About 10 o'clock they charged again, and so far as I could see with a fresh regiment. We allowed
them to come up very closely again and once more our deadly Mauser fire mowed them down, compelling
those who went scot-free to go down flat on the ground, while during this charge some who had
been obliged to drop down, now jumped up and ran away. If I remember rightly, it was during
this charge that a brave officer, who had one of his legs smashed, leant on a gun or his sword,
and kept on giving his orders, cheering the soldiers and telling them to charge on. While in
this position, a second bullet struck him, and he fell mortally wounded. We afterwards heard
it was a certain Colonel Lloyd of the West Riding Regiment. A few months after, on passing
over this same battlefield, we laid a wreath of flowers on his grave, with a card, bearing
the inscription: "In honour of a brave enemy."

General Paget seemed resolved to take our positions, whatever the sacrifice of human lives
might be. If he succeeded at last, at this rate, he might find half a score of wounded burghers
and, if his cavalry hurried up, perhaps a number of burghers with horses in bad condition,
but nothing more.

Whereas, if he had made a flanking movement, he might have attained his end, perhaps without
losing a single man.

Pride or stupidity must have induced him not to change his tactics. Nothing daunted by the
repeated failures in the morning, our assailant charged again, now one position and then another,
trying to get their field-pieces in position, but each time without success. At their wits'
end, the enemy tried another dodge, bringing his guns right up to our position under cover
of some Red Cross waggons. The officer who perceived this, reported to me by heliograph, asking
for instructions. I answered: 'If a Red Cross waggon enters the fighting lines during the battle,
it is there on its own responsibility.' Besides, General Paget, under protection of the white
flag, might have asked any moment or an hour, or longer, to carry away his many unfortunate
wounded, who were lying between two fires in the burning sun.

When the Red Cross waggon was found to be in the line of fire, it was put right-about face,
while some guns remained behind to fire shrapnel at us from a short distance. They could only
fire one or two shots, for our burghers soon put out of action the artillerists who were serving
them. Towards the afternoon some of my burghers began to run short of ammunition, I had a field-cornet's
force in reserve, from which five to ten men were sent to the position from time to time, and
this cheered the burghers up again.

The same attacking tactics were persisted in by General Paget all day long, although they were
a complete failure. When the sun disappeared behind the Magaliesbergs, the enemy made a final,
in fact, a desperate effort to take our positions, the guns booming along while we were enveloped
by clouds of dust thrown up by the shells.

The soldiers charged, brave as lions, and crept closer to our positions than they had done
during the day.

But it seemed as if Fate were favouring us, for our 15-pounder had just got ready, sending
his shells into the enemy's lines in rapid succession, and finding the range most beautifully.
The pom-pom too--which we could only get to fire one or two shells all day long, owing to the
gunner having to potter about for two or three hours after each shot to try and repair it--to
our great surprise suddenly commenced booming away, and the two pieces--I was going to say
the "mysterious" pieces--poured a stream of murderous steel into the assailants, which made
them waver and then retire, leaving many comrades behind.

On our side only two burghers were killed, while 22 were wounded. The exact loss of the enemy
was difficult to estimate. It must, however, have amounted to some hundreds.

Again night spread a dark veil over one of the most bloody dramas of this war. After the cessation
of hostilities, I called my officers together and considered our position. We had not lost
an inch of ground that day, while the enemy had gained nothing. On the contrary, they had suffered
a serious repulse at our hands. But our ammunition was getting scarce, our waggons, with provisions,
were 18 miles away. All we had in our positions was mealies and raw meat, and the burghers
had no chance of cooking them. We therefore decided, as we had no particular interest in keeping
these positions, to fall back that night on Poortjesnek, which was a "half-way house" between
the place we were leaving and our carts, from which we should be able to draw our provisions
and reserve ammunition.

We therefore allowed General Paget to occupy these positions without more ado.

I have tried to describe this battle as minutely as possible in order to show that incompetence
of generals was not always on our side only.

I have seen from the report of the British Commander-in-Chief, published in the newspapers,
that this battle had been a most successful and brilliant victory, gained by General Paget.
People will say, perhaps, that it was silly on my part to evacuate the positions, and that
I should have gone on defending them the next day. Well, in the old days this would have been
done by European generals, but no doubt they were fighting under different circumstances. They
were not faced by a force ten times their own strength; not restricted to a limited quantity
of ammunition; nor were they in want of proper food or reinforcements. The nearest Boer commando
was at Warmbad, about 60 miles distant. Besides, there was no necessity, either for military
or strategical reasons, for us to cling to these positions. It had already become our policy
to fight whenever we could, and to retire when we could not hold on any longer. The Government
had decided that the War should be continued and it was the duty of every general to manoeuvre
so as to prolong it. We had no reserve troops, so my motto was: "Kill as many of the enemy
as you possibly can, but see you do not expose your own men, for we cannot spare a single one."

On the 30th of November, the day after the fight, I was with a patrol on the first "randts,"
north-east of Rhenosterkop, just as the sun rose, and had a splendid view of the whole battlefield
of the previous day. I saw the enemy's scouts, cautiously approaching the evacuated positions,
and concluded from the precautions they were taking that they did not know we had left overnight.
Indeed, very shortly after I saw the Khakis storming and occupying the kopjes. How great must
have been their astonishment and disappointment on finding those positions deserted, for the
possession of which they had shed so much blood. A number of ambulance waggons were brought
up and were moving backwards and forwards on the battlefield, taking the wounded to the hospital
camp, which must have assumed colossal proportions. Ditches were seen to be dug, in which the
killed soldiers were buried. A troop of kaffirs carried the bodies, as far as I could distinguish,
and I could distinctly see some heaps of khaki-coloured forms near the graves.

As the battlefield looked now, it was a sad spectacle. Death and mutilation, sorrow and misery,
were the traces yesterday's fight had left behind. How sad, I thought, that civilised nations
should thus try to annihilate one another. The repeated brave charges made by General Paget's
soldiers, notwithstanding our deadly fire, had won our greatest admiration for the enemy, and
many a burgher sighed even during the battle. What a pity such plucky fellows should have to
be led on to destruction like so many sheep to the butcher's block!

Meanwhile, General Lyttelton's columns had not got any nearer, and it appeared to us that he
had only made a display to confuse us, and with the object of inducing us to flee in face of
their overwhelming strength.

On the 1st of December General Paget sent a strong mounted force to meet us, and we had a short,
sharp fight, without very great loss on either side.

This column camped at Langkloof, near our positions, compelling us to graze and water our horses
at the bottom of the "neck" in the woods, where horse-sickness was prevalent. We were, therefore,
very soon obliged to move.

About this time I received a report to the effect that a number of women and children were
wandering about near Rhenosterkop along the Wilge River. Their houses had been burnt by order
of General Paget, and we were asked to protect these unfortunate people.

Some burghers offered to ride out at night time to try and find them, and the next morning
they brought several families into our camp. The husbands of these poor sufferers were on duty
in the neighbourhood, so that they were now enabled to do the needful for their wives and children.
I put some questions to some of the women, from which it appeared that although they had besought
the English not to burn their clothes and food, yet this had been done. Some Australians and
Canadians, who had been present, had done their best to save some of the food and clothes,
and these Colonials had shown them much consideration in every respect, but, the women added,
a gang of kaffirs, who were ordered to cause this destruction, were behaving in the most barbarous
and cruel manner, and were under no control by the British soldiers.

I felt bound to protest against these scandalous acts of vandalism, and sent two of my adjutants
to the English camp next day with a note of about the following tenour:--

     "To GENERAL PAGET, commanding H.M's. forces at
     Rhenosterkop.

     "It is my painful duty to bring under your Honour's notice
     the cruel way in which the troops under your command are
     acting in ill-treating defenceless women and children. Not
     only their homes, but also their food and clothes, are being
     burnt. These poor creatures were left in the open veldt, at
     the mercy of the kaffirs, and would have died of starvation
     and exhaustion but for our assistance. This way of treating
     these unfortunate people is undoubtedly against the rules of
     civilised warfare, and I beg to emphasise that the
     responsibility for this cruelty will be entirely yours. You
     may rest assured that a similar treatment of our families
     will not shorten the duration of the War, but that, on the
     contrary, such barbarities will force the burghers to
     prolong the struggle and to fight on with more bitterness
     and determination than ever."

The two despatch carriers whom I sent to the British General under a white flag were taken
for spies, and however much they tried to establish their identity, General Paget was not to
be convinced, and had them arrested, detaining them for three days. Their horses were used
every day by the English officers, which I consider far from gentlemanly. On the third day
my two adjutants were again taken before the general, and cross-examined, but no evidence could
be found against their being bona-fide messengers. Paget told them that my despatch was all
nonsense, and did not give them the right to enter his lines under the white flag, adding,
while he handed them a letter addressed to me:

"You can go now; tell your General that if he likes to fight I shall be pleased to meet him
at any time in the open. You have killed some of my Red Cross people, but I know it was done
by those 'damned' unscrupulous Johannesburgers. Tell them I shall pay them for this!"

Before my adjutants left, a certain Captain ---- said to one of them:

"I say, what do your people think of the fight?"

"Which fight do you mean?" asked the adjutant.

"The fight here," returned the captain.

"Oh," remarked the adjutant, "we think it was rather a mismanagement." To which the captain
replied: "By Jove! you are not the only people who think so."

The contents of General Paget's letter were short and rough; "The responsibility for the suffering
of women and children rests on the shoulders of those who blindly continue the helpless struggle,"
etc., etc.

I may say here that this was the first time in this War the English officers treated my despatch
riders under the white flag in such a manner, giving me at the same time such a discourteous
answer.

No doubt we have had generals acting like this on our side, and I admit that we did not always
stand on etiquette.

As already stated, part of the enemy's forces were camping out near Poortjesnek, so close by
that we had to shift our laager and commando to a more healthy part on account of the horse-sickness.
The enemy installed a permanent occupation at Rhenosterkop, and we moved into the Lydenberg
district, where we knew we should find some wholesome "veldt" on the Steenkamps Mountains.
We went through the forest near Maleemskop via Roodekraal, to the foot of Bothasberg, where
we had a few weeks' rest.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE SECOND CHRISTMAS AT WAR.

The veldt was in splendid condition at the foot of Bothasberg, where we had pitched our camp.
We found mealies and cattle left everywhere. The enemy did not know where we really were, and
could not, therefore, bother us for the time being. Our Government was at Tautesberg, about
12 miles north of Bothasberg, and we received a visit from Acting-President Burger, who brought
with him the latest news from Europe, and the reports from the other commandos. Mr. Burger
said he was sorry we had to leave the Pretoria district, but he could understand our horses
would have all been killed by the sickness if we had stopped at Poortjesnek. As regards the
Battle of Rhenosterkop, he expressed the Government's satisfaction with the result.

On the 16th of December we celebrated Dingaan's Day in a solemn manner. Pastor J. Louw, who
had faithfully accompanied us during these fatiguing months of retreats and adversity, delivered
a most impressive address, describing our position. Several officers also spoke, and I myself
had a go at it, although I kept to politics. In the afternoon the burghers had sports, consisting
of races on foot and on horseback. The prizes were got together by means of small contributions
from the officers. All went well, without any mishaps, and it was unanimously voted to have
been very entertaining.

It was a peculiar sight--taking into consideration the circumstances--to see these people on
the "veldt" feasting and of good cheer, each trying to amuse the other, under the fluttering
"Vierkleur"--the only one we possessed--but the look of which gladdened the hearts of many
assisting at this celebration in the wilderness. How could we have been in a truly festive
mood without the sight of that beloved banner, which it had cost so many sacrifices to protect,
and to save which so much Afrikander blood had been shed.

And in many of us the thought suggested itself: "O, Vierkleur of our Transvaal, how much longer
shall we be allowed to see you unfurled? How long, O Lord, will a stream of tears and blood
have to flow before we are again the undisputed masters of our little Republic, scarcely visible
on the world's map? For how long will our adored Vierkleur be allowed to remain floating over
the heads of our persecuted nation, whose blood has stained and soaked your colours for some
generations? We hope and trust that so sure as the sun shall rise in the east and set in the
west, so surely may this our flag, now wrapped in sorry mourning, soon flutter aloft again
in all its glory, over the country on which Nature lavishes her most wondrous treasures."

The Afrikander character may be called peculiar in many respects. In moments of reverse, when
the future seems dark, one can easily trace its pessimistic tendencies. But once his comrades
buried, the wounded attended to, and a moment's rest left him by the enemy, the cheerful part
of the Boer nature prevails, and he is full of fun and sport. If anybody, in a sermon or in
a speech, try to impress on him the seriousness of the situation, pointing out how our ancestors
have suffered and how we have to follow in their steps, our hero of yesterday, the jolly lad
who was laughing boisterously and joking a minute ago, is seen to melt, and the tears start
in his eyes. I am now referring to the true Afrikander. Of course, there are many calling themselves
Afrikanders who during this War have proved themselves to be the scum of the nation. I wish
to keep them distinguished from the true, from the noble men belonging to this nationality
of whom I shall be proud as long as I live, no matter what the result of the War may be.

Our laagers were not in a very satisfactory position, more as regards our safety than the question
of health, sickness being expected to make itself felt only later in the year.

We therefore decided to "trek" another 10 miles, to the east of Witpoort, through Korfsnek,
to the Steenkampsbergen, in order to pitch or camp at Windhoek. Windhoek (wind-corner) was
an appropriate name, the breezes blowing there at times with unrelenting fury.

Here we celebrated Christmas of 1900, but we sorely missed the many presents our friends and
lady acquaintances sent us from Johannesburg on the previous festival, and which had made last
year's Christmas on the Tugela such a success.

No flour, sugar or coffee, no spirits or cigars to brighten up our festive board. This sort
of thing belonged to the luxuries which had long ceased to come our way, and we had to look
pleasant on mealie-porridge and meat, varied by meat and mealie-porridge.

Yet many groups of burghers were seen to be amusing themselves at all sorts of games; or you
found a pastor leading divine service and exhorting the burghers. Thus we kept our second Christmas
in the field.

About this time the commandos from the Lydenburg district (where we now were) as well as those
from the northern part of Middelburg, were placed under my command, and I was occupied for
several days in reorganising the new arrivals. The fact of the railway being almost incessantly
in the hands of the enemy, and the road from Machadodorp to Lydenburg also blocked by them
(the latter being occupied in several places by large or small garrisons) compelled us to place
a great number of outposts to guard against continual attacks and to report whenever some of
the columns, which were always moving about, were approaching.

The spot where our laagers were now situated was only 13 miles from Belfast and Bergendal,
between which two places General Smith-Dorrien's strong force was posted; while a little distance
behind Lydenburg was General Walter Kitchener with an equally strong garrison. We were, therefore,
obliged to be continually on the alert, not relaxing our watchfulness for one single moment.
One or two burghers were still deserting from time to time, aggravating their shameful behaviour
by informing the enemy of our movements, which often caused a well-arranged plan to fail. We
knew this was simply owing to these very dangerous traitors.

The State Artillerymen, who had now been deprived of their guns, were transformed into a mounted
corps of 85 men, under Majors Wolmarans and Pretorius, and placed under my command for the
time being.

It was now time we should assume the offensive, before the enemy attacked us. I therefore went
out scouting for some days, with several of my officers, in order to ascertain the enemy's
positions and to find out their weakest spot. My task was getting too arduous, and I decided
to promote Commandant Muller to the rank of a fighting-general. He turned out to be an active
and reliable assistant.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

CAPTURE OF "LADY ROBERTS."

After I had carefully reconnoitred the enemy's positions, I resolved, after consulting my fighting-general,
Muller, to attack the Helvetia garrison, one of the enemy's fortifications or camps between
Lydenburg and Machadodorp. Those fortifications served to protect the railway road from Machadodorp
Station to Lydenburg, along which their convoys went twice a week to provision Lydenburg village.
Helvetia is situated three miles east of Machadodorp, four miles west of Watervalboven Station,
where a garrison was stationed, and about three miles south of a camp near Zwartkoppies. It
was only protected on the north side. Although it was difficult to approach this side on account
of a mountainous rand through which the Crocodile River runs, yet this was the only road to
take. It led across Witrand or Bakenkop; the commandos were therefore obliged to follow it,
and had to do this at night time, for if they had passed the Bakenkop by day they would have
exposed themselves to the enemy's artillery fire from the Machadodorp and Zwartkoppies garrisons.

During the night of the 28th of December 1900, we marched from Windhoek, past Dullstroom, up
to the neighbourhood of Bakenkop, where we halted and divided the commandos for the attack,
which was to be made in about the following order:--

Fighting-General Muller was to trek with 150 men along the convoy-road between Helvetia and
Zwartkoppies up to Watervalboven, keeping his movements concealed from the adversary. Commandant
W. Viljoen (my brother), would approach the northerly and southerly parts of Helvetia within
a few hundred paces, with part of the Johannesburgers and Johannesburg Police. This commando
numbered 200 men.

In order to be able to storm the different forts almost simultaneously we were all to move
at 3.30 a.m., and I gave the men a password, in order to prevent confusion and the possibility
of our hitting one another in the general charge. There being several forts and trenches to
take the burghers were to shout "Hurrah!" as loudly as they could in taking each fort, which
would show us it was captured, and at the same time encourage the others. Two of our most valiant
field-cornets, P. Myburgh and J. Cevonia, an Italian Afrikander, were sent to the left, past
Helvetia, with 120 men, to attack Zwartkoppies the moment we were to storm Helvetia, while
I kept in reserve the State Artillerists and a field-cornet's posse of Lydenburgers to the
right of the latter place, near Machadodorp, which would enable me to stop any reinforcements
sent to the other side from that place or from Belfast. For if the British were to send any
cavalry from there they would be able to turn our rear, and by marching up as soon as they
heard the first report of firing at Helvetia, they would be in a position to cut me up with
the whole of my commando. I only suggest the possibility of it, and cannot make out why it
was not attempted. I can only be thankful to the British officers for omitting to do this.

I had taken up a position, with some of my adjutants, between the commandos as arranged, and
stood waiting, watch in hand, for the moment the first shot should be fired. My men all knew
their places and their duties, but unfortunately a heavy fog rose at about 2 o'clock, which
made the two field-cornets who were to attack the Zwartkoppies lose their way and the chance
of reaching their destination before daybreak.

I received the news of this failure at 3.20, i.e., ten minutes before the appointed time of
action. A bad beginning, I thought, and these last ten minutes seemed many hours to me.

I struck a match every moment, under cover of my macintosh, to see if it were yet half past
three. Another minute and it would soon be decided whether I should be the vanquished or the
victor. How many burghers, who were now marching so eagerly to charge the enemy in his trenches,
would be missed from our ranks to-morrow? It is these moments of tension which make an officer's
hair turn grey. The relation between our burgher and his officers is so entirely different
from that which exists between the British officer and his men or between these ranks perhaps
in any other standing army. We are all friends. The life of each individual burgher in our
army is highly valued by his officer and is only sacrificed at the very highest price. We regret
the loss of a simple burgher as much as that of the highest in rank. And it was the distress
and worry of seeing these lives lost, which made me ponder before the battle.

Suddenly one of my adjutants called out: "I hear some shouting. What may this be?"

I threw my waterproof over my head and struck a match, then cried: "It is time, my lads!" And
in a few seconds a chain of fire flamed up round the forts, immediately followed by the rattling
and crackling of the burghers' Mausers. The enemy was not slow in returning our fire.

It is not easy to adequately render the impression a battle in the dark makes. Each time a
shot is fired you see a flash of fire several yards long, and where about 500 or 600 rifles
are being fired at a short distance from you, it makes one think of a gigantic display of fireworks.

Although it was still dusk, I could easily follow the course of the fight. The defenders' firing
slackened in several places, to subside entirely in others, while from the direction of the
other reports and flashes, our men were obviously closing up, drawing tighter the ring round
the enemy.

So far, according to my scouts, no stir had been made from Belfast, which encouraged me to
inform the officers that we were not being cut off. At daybreak only a few shots were falling,
and when the fog cleared up I found Helvetia to be in our hands.

General Muller reported that his part of the attack had been successfully accomplished, and
that a 4·7 naval gun had been found in the great fortress. I gave orders to fetch this gun
out of the fort without delay, to take away the prisoners we had made and as much of the commissariat
as we could manage to carry, and to burn the remainder.

Towards the evening we were fired at by two guns at Zwartkoppies, making it very difficult
for us to get the provisions away.

A great quantity of rum and other spirits was found among the enemy's commissariat, and as
soon as the British soldiers made prisoners were disarmed, they ran up to it, filled their
flasks, and drank so freely that about thirty of them were soon unable to walk. Their bad example
was followed by several burghers, and many a man who had not been given to drinking used this
opportunity to imbibe a good quantity, making it very difficult for us to keep things in order.

About 60 men of the garrison had been killed or wounded, and their commanding officer had received
some injuries, but fortunately there was a doctor there who at once attended to these cases.
On our side we had five men killed and seven wounded--the brave Lieutenant Nortje and Corporal
J. Coetzee being amongst them.

A small fort, situated between the others, had been overlooked, through a misunderstanding,
and a score of soldiers who were garrisoning it had been forgotten and omitted to be disarmed.

An undisciplined commando is not easily managed at times. It takes all the officers' tact and
shrewdness to get all the captured goods--like arms, ammunition, provisions, &c.--transported,
especially when drink is found in a captured camp.

When we discussed the victory afterwards, it became quite clear that our tactics in storming
the enemy's positions on the east and south sides had been pregnant of excellent results, for
the English were not at all prepared at these points, though they had been on their guard to
the north. In fact it had been very trying work to force them to surrender there. The officer
in command, who was subsequently discharged from the British Army, had done his best, but he
was wounded in the head at the beginning of the fight, and so far as I could ascertain there
had been nobody to take his place. Three lieutenants were surprised in their beds and made
prisoners-of-war. In the big fort where we found the naval gun, a captain of the garrison's
artillery was in command. This fortress had been stormed, as already stated, from the side
on which the attack had not been expected and the captain had not had an opportunity of firing
many shots from his revolver, when he was wounded in the arm and compelled to surrender to
the burghers who rushed up. Two hundred and fifty prisoners, including four officers, were
made, the majority belonging to the Liverpool regiment and the 18th regiment of Hussars. They
were all taken to our laager.

We succeeded in bringing away the captured gun in perfect order, also some waggons. Unfortunately
the cart with the projectiles or shell, stuck in the morass and had to be left behind.

I gave orders to have a gun which we had left with the reserve burghers at Bakenkop, brought
up, to open fire on the two pieces which were firing at us from Zwartkoppies, and to cover
our movements while we were taking away the prisoners-of-war and the captured stores. I was
in hopes of getting an opportunity of releasing the carts which stuck. But Fate was against
us. A heavy hailstorm accompanied by thunder and lightning, fiercer than I have ever witnessed
in South Africa before, broke over our heads. Several times the lightning struck the ground
around us, and the weather became so alarming that the drunken "Tommies" began to talk about
their souls, and further efforts to save the carts had to be abandoned.

Whoever may have been the officer in command at Zwartkoppies he really deserved a D.S.O., which
he obtained, too.

What that order really means I wot not, but I know that an English soldier is quite prepared
to risk his life to deserve one, and as the decoration itself cannot be very expensive, it
pays the British Government to be very liberal with it. A Boer would be satisfied with nothing
less than promotion as a reward for heroism.

When the storm subsided we went on. Dear Friend: I am so hip and you are well. I get along very
well that I have not been sick since I left home not lost, but 2-1/2 day I work as a man. I'm
doing well.

I never liked a place like I do here, except home. Their is no place like home What is the church
to get along. You can not just get a house to live I am awake in my financial plans. I rent a place
for inmates who are 15 sleprs which began a week ago and be shure to send me my letter of resignation
by return mail. I go into some kind of business here on September
you agriculture.

Rasion is powerful at the top of here. people are coming from the
south each week, people of color are good they are the best workers.

     He made a great many white friends. The Baptist Church is full
     of Georgia Baptist and Ala 10 and 12 together every Sunday.

     He is planning to build a fine brick church. It takes dollars
     to 50 and 60 each Sunday is a preacher doing wel. I am sending
     a check for my salary in a couple of weeks.

     Glucose me $ 100 to buy furniture.

Write me.

NOTES:
[1] These letters were collected under the direction of Mr. Emmett J. Scott.
BOOK REVIEWS

The black American World War. By Emmett J. SCOTT, Special Assistant to the Secretary of War. Historic
Black Publishing Company, Washington, DC, 1919.
Mr. Scott's account of blacks in World War I is one of a series of works that present the achievements
of blacks during the great uprising. Kelly Miller, Allison W. Sweeney
and others have preceded the publication of the volumes in this field.

The story written by Kelly Miller is apparently doubtful authorship. It is but a truism of war
popular sketch supplemented by one or two trials with the seal of controversial writing own Kelly
Miller.

W. Allison Sweeney's work is committed to making a more continuous
historical sketch of the achievements from year to year, while at
the same time, guided by the current plan.

     Sometimes the author is high on equal treatment and often
     trivial. To say that the works of Miller and Sweeney are
     not scientists, not exactly the ground. Not so at the height
     of the standard popular history of the media.
     Mr. Scott's story is far from conclusive as the author's purpose was
more to popularize the achievements of black soldiers.

     In addition to the existing access historical commentary in
     newspapers and magazines, Mr. Scott has added to its work
     a large number of official documents accessible only to someone like
him, was related to the War Department during the conflict.

Has another value, on the other hand, since this provides the reaction of a federal official
smart color in the thousands of daily events happening around them.
The author is committed to connecting the black with the root cause of the war in which racial
prejudice was its source.

The author shows how lucky he was to have black troops as the first National Guard is properly
equipped for the service immediately and to take the place of honor in the monitoring of the
White House and the country's capital, by order of President of the United States. His own
appointment and his work as special assistant to the Secretary of
War as an official recognition of the interests of blacks in the war
became the nucleus around which the facts of the work is organized.

How can blacks appeared in the national army, how the black soldiers and officers were trained
and how they were treated in the fields all bring to light information
that the public has been waiting a long time.

After giving passing mention to the black soldiers in the armies of European nations, the author
turns his attention to the black regiments abroad. special chapters devoted to the achievements
of the 367th regiment, 368th, 370th, 371st and 372d.

The behavior of blacks in the battle is outlined in the chapter on black as a fighter.
 Nothing would have given us greater pleasure than to send some shells from "Her
Ladyship" into the Belfast camp on the last day of 1900, with the "Compliments of the Season."
Not of course, in order to cause any destruction, but simply as a New Year's greeting. We would
have sent them close by like the Americans in Mark Twain's book: "Not right in it, you know,
but close by or near it." Only the shells were wanting, for with the gun were 50 charged "hulzen"
and a case of cordite "schokbuizen."

We tried to make a shell from an empty "Long Tom" one, by cutting the latter down, for the
"Long Toms" shells were of greater calibre, and after having it filled with four pom-pom bullets,
some cordite etc., we made it tight with copper wire, and soldered the whole together.

But when the shell was fired it burst a few steps away from the mouth of the cannon, and we
had to abandon all hope of ever hearing a shout from the distinguished "Lady's" throat.

It was stowed away safely in the neighbourhood of Tautesberg and guarded by a group of cattle-farmers,
or rather "bush-lancers," as they were afterwards called, in case we should get hold of the
proper shells some day or other.

In connection with the attack on Helvetia I should like to quote the following lines, written
by one of our poetasters, State-Secretary Mr. F. W. Reitz, in the field, although the translation
will hardly give an adequate idea of the peculiar treatment of the subject:--

    "Hurrah for General Muller, hurrah for Ben Viljoen,
    They went for 'Lady Roberts' and caught her very soon.
    They caught her at Helvetia, great was Helvetia's fall!
    Come up and see 'The Lady,' you Ooms and Tantes all.

    It was a Christmas present (they made a splendid haul),
    And sent 'The Lady Roberts,' a present to Oom Paul.
    It cheered the poor Bush-lancers, it cheered the 'trek boers' all,
    It made them gladly answer to freedom's battle call.

    Lord Roberts gave up fighting, he did not care a rap,
    But left his dear old 'Lady,' who's fond of mealie-pap.
    Of our dear wives and children he burned the happy homes,
    He likes to worry Tantes but fears the sturdy Ooms.

    But his old 'Lady Roberts' (the lyddite-spitting gun),
    He sent her to Helvetia to cheer the garrison;
    He thought she would be safe there, in old Smith-Dorrien's care;
    To leave the kopjes' shelter the Boers would never dare.

    Well done, Johannesburgers, Boksburgers, and police,
    Don't give them any quarter, don't give them any peace;
    Before the sleepy "Tommies" could get their stockings on,
    The forts were stormed and taken, and all the burghers gone.

    We took 300 soldiers, provisions, and their guns,
    And of their ammunition we captured many tons.
    'This is guerilla warfare,' says Mr. Chamberlain,
    But those we have bowled over will never fight again.

    Let Roberts of Kandahar, and Kitchener of Khartoum,
    Let Buller of Colenso make all their cannon boom.
    They may mow down the kaffirs, with shield and assegai,
    But on his trusty Mauser the burgher can rely.

    For now the white man's fighting, these heroes dare not stay,
    Lord Kitchener's in Pretoria, the others ran away.
    Lord Roberts can't beat burghers, although he Candahar,
    The Lords are at a distance, the Generals few and far!

    They may annex and conquer, have conquered and annexed,
    Yet when the Mauser rattles the British are perplexed.
    Stand firm then, Afrikanders, prolong the glorious fight,
    Unfurl the good old 'Vierkleur.' Stand firm, for right is might!

    What though the sky be clouded, what though the light be gone;
    The day will dawn to-morrow, the sun will shine anon;
    And though in evil moments a hero's hand may fail,
    The strong will be confounded and right will yet prevail!"

CHAPTER XXIX.

A DISMAL "HAPPY NEW YEAR."

This is the 31st of December, 1900, two days after the victory gained by our burghers over
the English troops at Helvetia, at the same time the last day of the year, or, as they call
it, "New Year's Eve"; which is celebrated in our country with great enjoyment. The members
of each family used to meet on that day, sometimes coming from all parts of the country. If
this could not be done they would invite their most intimate friends to come and see the Old
Year out--to "ring out the old, and ring in the new," for "Auld Lang Syne." This was one of
the most festive days for everybody in South Africa. On the 31st of December, 1899, we had
had to give up our time-honoured custom, there being no chance of joining in the friendly gathering
at home, most of us having been at the front since the beginning of October, 1899, while our
commandos were still in the very centre of Natal or in the northern part of Cape Colony; Ladysmith,
Kimberley, and Mafeking were still besieged, and on the 15th of December the great victory
of Colenso over the English Army had been won.

It is true that even then we were far from our beloved friends, but those who had not been
made prisoners were still in direct communication with those who were near and dear to them.
And although we were unable to pass the great day in the family circle, yet we could send our
best wishes by letter or by wire. We had then hoped it would be the last time we should have
to spend the last day of the year under such distressing circumstances, trusting the war would
soon be over.

Now 365 days had gone by--long, dreary, weary days of incessant struggle; and again our expectations
had not been realised, and our hopes were deferred. We were not to have the privilege of celebrating
"the Old and the New" with our people as we had so fervently wished the previous year on the
Tugela.

The day would pass under far more depressing circumstances. In many homes the members of the
family we left behind would be prevented from being in a festive mood, thinking as they were
of the country's position, while mourning the dead, and pre-occupied with the fate of the wounded,
of those who were missing, or known to be prisoners-of-war.

It was night-time, and everybody was under the depression of the present serious situation.
Is it necessary to say that we were all absorbed in our thoughts, reviewing the incidents of
the past year? Need we say that everyone of us was thinking with sadness of our many defeats,
of the misery suffered on the battlefields, of our dead and wounded and imprisoned comrades;
how we had been compelled to give up Ladysmith, Kimberley, and Mafeking, and how the principal
towns of our Republics, Bloemfontein and Pretoria, where our beloved flag had been flying for
so many long years, over an independent people, were now in the hands of the enemy? Need we
say we were thinking that night more than ever of our many relatives who had sacrificed their
blood and treasure in this melancholy War for the good Cause; of our wives and children, who
did not know what had become of us, and whom most of us had not seen for the last eight months.
Were they still alive? Should we ever see them alive? Such were the terrible thoughts passing
through our minds as we silently sat round the fires that evening.

Nor did anything tend to relieve the sombre monotony. This time we should not have a chance
of receiving some little things to cheer us up and remind us that our dearest friends had thought
of us. Our fare would that day be the eternal meat and mealies--mealies and meat.

But why call to mind all these sombre memories of the past? Sufficient unto the day it seems
was the evil thereof. Why sum up the misery of a whole year's struggles? And thus we "celebrated"
New Year's Eve of 1900, till we found our consolation in that greatest of blessings to a tired-out
man--a refreshing sleep.

But no sooner had we risen next morning than the cheerful compliments: "A Happy New Year!"
or "My best wishes for the New Year" rang in our ears. We were all obviously trying to lay
stress on the possible blessings of the future, so as to make each other forget the past, but
I am afraid we did not expect the fulfilment of half of what we wished.

For well we knew how bad things were all round, how many dark clouds were hanging over our
heads, and how very few bright spots were visible on the political horizon.

CHAPTER XXX.

GENERAL ATTACK ON BRITISH FORTS.

My presence was requested on the 3rd of January, 1901, by the Commandant-General at a Council
of War, which was to be held two days after at Hoetspruit, some miles east of Middelburg. General
Botha would be there with his staff, and a small escort would take him from Ermelo over the
railway through the enemy's lines. My commandos were to hold themselves in readiness. There
was no doubt in my mind as to there being some great schemes on the cards, and that the next
day we should have plenty to do, for the Commandant-General would not come all that way unless
something important was on. And why should my commandos have to keep themselves in readiness?

On the morning of the 5th I went to the place of destination, which we reached at 11 o'clock,
to find the Commandant-General and suite had already arrived. General Botha had been riding
all night long in order to get through the enemy's lines, and had been resting in the shadow
of a tree at Hoetspruit. The meeting of his adjutants and mine was rather boisterous, and woke
him up, whereupon he rose immediately and came up to me with his usual genial smile. We had
often been together for many months in the War, and the relations between us had been very
cordial. I therefore do not hesitate to call him a bosom-friend, with due respect to his Honour
as my chief.

"Hullo, old brother, how are you?" was Botha's welcome.

"Good morning, General, thank you, how are you?" I replied.

My high appreciation of, and respect for his position, made me refrain from calling him Louis,
although we did not differ much in age, and were on intimate terms.

"I must congratulate you upon your successful attack on Helvetia. You made a nice job of it,"
he said. "I hope you had a pleasant New Year's Eve. But," he went on, "I am sorry in one way,
for the enemy will be on his guard now, and we may not succeed in the execution of the plans
we are going to discuss to-day, and which concern those very districts."

"I am sorry, General," I replied, "but of course I know nothing of those plans."

"Well," rejoined the Commandant-General, "we will try anyhow, and hope for the best."

An hour later we met in council. Louis Botha briefly explained how he had gone with General
Christian Botha and Tobias Smuts, with 1,200 men, to Komatiboven, between Carolina and Belfast,
where they had left the commandos to cross the line in order to meet the officers who were
to the north of it with the object of going into the details of a combined attack on the enemy's
camps.

All were agreed and so it was decided that the attack would be made during the night of the
7th of January, at midnight, the enemy's positions being stormed simultaneously.

The attack was to be made in the following way: The Commandant-General and General C. Botha
along with F. Smuts, would attack on the southern side of the garrisons, in the following places:
Pan Station, Wonderfontein Station, Belfast Camp and Station, Dalmanutha and Machadodorp, while
I was to attack these places from the north. The commandos would be divided so as to have a
field-cornet's force charge at each place.

I must say that I had considerable difficulty in trying to make a little go a long way in dividing
my small force along such a long line of camps, but the majority were in favour of this "frittering-away"
policy, and so it had to be done.

The enemy's strength in different places was not easy to ascertain. I knew the strongest garrison
at Belfast numbered over 2,500 men, and this place was to be made the chief point of attack,
although the Machadodorp garrison was pretty strong too. The distance along which the simultaneous
attack was to be made was about 22 miles and there were at least seven points to be stormed,
viz., Pan Station, Wonderfontein, Belfast Village, Monument Hill (near Belfast), the coal mines
(near Belfast), Dalmanutha Station and Machadodorp. A big programme, no doubt.

I can only, of course, give a description of the incidents on my side of the railway line,
for the blockhouses and the forts provided with guns, which had been built along the railway,
separated us entirely from the commandos to the south. The communication between both sides
of the railway could be only kept up at night time and with a great amount of trouble, by means
of despatch-carriers. We, therefore, did not even know how the attacking-parties on the southern
side had been distributed. All we knew was, that any place which was to be attacked from the
north would also be stormed from the south at the same time, except the coal mine west of Belfast,
occupied by Lieutenant Marshall with half a section of the Gloucester Regiment, which we were
to attack separately, as it was situated some distance north of the railway line.

I arranged my plans as follows: Commandant Trichardt, with two field-cornets posses of Middelburgers
and one of Germiston burghers, were to attack Pan and Wonderfontein; the State Artillery would
go for the coal mine; the Lydenburgers look after Dalmanutha and Machadodorp; while General
Muller with the Johannesburgers and Boksburgers would devote their attention to Monument Hill.

I should personally attack Belfast Village, with a detachment of police, passing between the
coal mine and Monument Hill. My attack could only, of course, be commenced after that on the
latter two places had turned out successfully, as otherwise I should most likely have my retreat
cut off.

In the evening of the 7th of January all the commandos marched, for the enemy would have been
able to see us from a distance on this flat ground if we had started in the daytime, and would
have fired at us with their 4·7 guns, one of which we knew to be at Belfast. We had to cover
a distance of 15 miles between dusk and midnight. There was therefore no time to be lost, for
a commando moves very slowly at night time if there is any danger in front. If the danger comes
from the rear, things very often move quicker than is good for the horses. Then the men have
to be kept together, and the guides are followed up closely, for if any burghers were to lag
behind and the chain be broken, 20 or 30 of them might stray which would deprive us of their
services.

It was one of those nights, known in the Steenkamp Mountains as "dirty nights," very dark,
with a piercing easterly wind, which blew an incessant, fine, misty rain into our faces. About
nine o'clock the mist changed into heavy rains, and we were soon drenched to the skin, for
very few of us wore rainproof cloaks.

At ten the rain left off, but a thick fog prevented us from seeing anything in front of us,
while the cold easterly wind had numbed our limbs, almost making them stiff. Some of the burghers
had therefore to be taken up by the ambulance in order to have their circulation restored by
means of some medicine or artificial treatment. The reel is made in a conical shape, being slightly
larger at one end than the other, and if the friction of their bearings be relieved by ordinary
roller bearings, as will multiply the force applied to inch double break a string, by the
power of a man at the crank.

An endless rope, or one in which the two ends are placed together, they spend five or six times
around the small end of the windlass, and down in a single pulley
below: then, as the reel handle is turned the rope constantly flowing
from one hand, while the circumference is greater.

It is now clear that if the winch is one-fifth of an inch larger in circumference, at the point where
the rope is taken up, in the place where it is emitted into the pulley, that everything that
can be annexed thereof, shall be increased by a tenth of an inch per revolution, then, assuming
that the crank lever to be fifteen inches, the handle will travel about 100 inches per revolution,
giving a power, or increased Force, 1000 to one. Therefore, if 100 pounds of power applied to
the crank will be enough - the frictional less - to raise a weight of 100,000 pounds. The
only drawback to this device, and preventing their entry into more
general use, ie it is far too limited in their movement, as a result
of travel of the rope from one end of the windlass to the other.

Thus, if the windlass be only ten inches long, and the string of an inch in diameter, has
to admit that twenty revolutions without renewing. However, in many cases, which is required in
an article raised, or moved, but a few centimeters, the conical reel will be preferable to any other
method.
* * * * * * * * * *
Requirement FORCE OF STEAM BOILERS.
SB correspondent can not understand that the strength of cylindrical
iron boiler must be in direct proportion to the diameter of it, in
order to maintain a pressure per square inch, therefore, we must reason
with him in the timeline.

The cohesive force of good iron is 64,000 lbs. per square inch, and of course, a strip of sheet
iron boiler hold 1/8th inch thick 8 thousand lbs. If a fine iron boiler is 14 inches in diameter,
or 44 inches in circumference, every inch of its length will contain 44 square inches, and each
contained half of the 22-inch, and as the pressure in this part is supported by least two inches
in width plate - one inch on each side - it appears to maintain a minimum pressure of 700 lbs.
per square inch in the direction of the circumference. If the diameter is twice the number
of square inches is twice, and twice the thickness required to maintain equal pressure.
 Only
now could we see how they were situated. We found them to be surrounded by a barbed wire fence
which was so strong and thick that some burghers were soon entangled in it, but most of them
got over it.

The first fort was taken after a short but sharp defence, the usual "hurrah" of the burghers
jumping into the fort was, like a whisper of hope in the dark, an encouragement to the remainder
of the storming burghers, who now soon took the other forts, not without having met with a
stout resistance. Many burghers were killed, amongst whom the brave Field-Cornet John Ceronie,
and many were wounded.

It had looked at first as if the enemy did not mean to give in, but we could not go back, and
"onward" was the watchword. In several instances there was a struggle at a few paces' distance,
only the wall of the fort intervening between the burghers and the soldiers. The burghers cried:
"Hands up, you devils," but the soldiers replied: "Hy kona," a kaffir expression which means
"shan't."

"Jump over the walls, my men!" shouted my officers, and at last they were in the forts: not,
of course, without the loss of many valuable lives. A "melée" now followed; the English struck
about with their guns and with their fists, and several burghers lay on the ground wrestling
with the soldiers. One "Tommy" wanted to thrust a bayonet through a Boer, but was caught from
behind by one of the latter's comrades, and knocked down and a general hand-to-hand fight ensued,
a rolling over and over, till one of the parties was exhausted, disarmed, wounded, or killed.
One of the English captains (Vosburry) and 40 soldiers were found dead or wounded, several
having been pierced by their own bayonets.

Some burghers had been knocked senseless with the butt-end of a rifle in the struggle with
the enemy.

This carnage had lasted for twenty minutes, during which the result had been decided in our
favour, and a "hurrah," full of glory and thankfulness, came from the throats of some hundreds
of burghers. We had won the day, and 81 prisoners-of-war had been made, including two officers--Captain
Milner and Lieutenant Dease--both brave defenders of England's flag.

They belonged to the Royal Irish Regiment, of which all Britons should be proud.

In the captured forts we found a Maxim, in perfect order, 20 boxes of ammunition, and other
things, besides provisions, also a quantity of spirits, which was, however, at once destroyed,
to the disappointment of many burghers.

We now pushed on to Belfast village, but found every cliff and ditch occupied. All efforts
to get in touch with the commandos which meant to attack the village from the south were without
avail. Besides, we did not hear a single shot fired, and did not know what had become of the
attack from the south. In intense darkness we were firing at each other from time to time,
so that it was not advisable to continue our operations under the circumstances, and at daybreak
I told all my commandos to desist.

The attacks on Wonderfontein, Pan Station, Dalmanutha, and Machadodorp had failed.

I afterwards received a report from the commandos on the other side of the line, that, owing
to the dark night, their attacks, although they were made with deliberation and great bravery,
had all been unsuccessful. They had repeatedly missed the forts and had shot at one another.

General Christian Botha had succeeded in capturing some of the enemy's outposts, and in pushing
on had come across a detachment of Gordon Highlanders and been obliged to retire with a loss
of 40 killed and wounded.

We found, therefore, these forts in the hands of the soldiers, who, in my opinion, belonged
to the best regiments of the English army.

The guests of our Government, at "the house beautiful" near Roos Senekal were thus added to
by two gentlemen, Captain Milner and Lieutenant Dease, and they were my prisoners-of-war for
four months, during which time I found Captain Milner one of the most worthy British officers
whom it had been my privilege to meet in this War. Not only in his manly appearance, but especially
by his noble character he stood head and shoulders above his fellow-officers.

Lieutenant Dease bore a very good character but was young and inexperienced. For several reasons
I am pleased to be able to make publicly these statements.

The soldiers we had made prisoners during this fight, as well as those we took at Helvetia,
were given up to the British officers a few days afterwards, as we were not in a position to
feed them properly, and it would not be humane or fair to keep the soldiers who had the misfortune
of falling into our hands without proper food. This, of course, was a very unsatisfactory state
of affairs, for we had to fight fiercely, valuable lives had to be sacrificed, every nerve
had to be strained to force the enemy to surrender, and to take his positions; and then, when
we had captured them, the soldiers were merely disarmed and sent back to the English lines
after a little while, only to find them fighting against us once more in a few days.

The Boers asked, "Why are not these "Tommies" required to take the oath before being liberated
not to fight against us again?" I believe this would have been against the rules of civilised
warfare, and we did not think it chivalrous to ask a man who was a prisoner to take an oath
in return for his release.

A prisoner-of-war has no freedom of action, and might have promised under the circumstances
what he would not have done if he had been a free man.

CHAPTER XXXI.

A "BLUFF" AND A BATTLE.

The last days of February, 1901, were very trying for our commandos on the "Hoogeveld," south
of the railway. General French, assisted by half a dozen other generals, with a force of 60,000
men, crossed the "Hoogeveld," between the Natal border and the Delagoa Railway, driving all
the burghers and cattle before him, continually closer to the Swazi frontier, in order to strike
a "final blow" there.

These operations the English called "The Great Sweep of February, 1901."

Commandant-General Botha sent word that he was in a bad plight on the "Hoogeveld," the enemy
having concentrated all his available troops upon him. I was asked to divert their attention
as much as possible by repeated attacks on the railway line, and to worry them everywhere.

To attack the fortified entrenchments in these parts, where we had only just been taking the
offensive, causing the enemy to be on his guard, would not have been advisable. I therefore
decided to make a feint attack on Belfast.

One night we moved with all the burghers who had horses, about 15 carts, waggons, and other
vehicles, guns and pom-pom, to a high "bult," near the "Pannetjes." When the sun rose the next
morning we were in full sight of the enemy at Belfast, from which we were about ten miles away.

Here our commando was split into two parts, and the mounted men spread about in groups of fifty
men each, with carts scattered everywhere among the ranks. We slowly approached Belfast in
this order. Our commando numbered about 800 men, and considering the way we were distributed,
this would look three times as many. We halted several times, and the heliographers, who were
posted everywhere in sight of the enemy, made as much fuss as possible. Scouts were riding
about everywhere, making a great display by dashing about all over the place, from one group
of burghers to another. After we had waited again for some little time we moved on, and thus
the comedy lasted till sunset; in fact, we had got within range of the enemy's guns. We had
received information from Belfast to the effect that General French had taken all the guns
with him to Belfast, leaving only a few of small calibre, which could not reach us until we
were at about 4,000 yards from the fort. Our pom-pom and our 15-pounder were divided between
the two divisions, and the officers had orders to fire a few shots on Belfast at sunset. We
could see all day long how the English near Monument Hill were making ditches round the village
and putting up barbed wire fences.

Trains were running backwards and forwards between Belfast and the nearest stations, probably
to bring up reinforcements.

At twilight we were still marching, and by the light of the last rays of the sun we fired our
two valuable field-pieces simultaneously, as arranged. I could not see where the shells were
falling, but we heard them bursting, and consoled ourselves with the idea that they must have
struck in near the enemy. Each piece sent half a dozen shells, and some volleys were fired
from a few rifles at intervals. We thought the enemy would be sure to take this last movement
for a general attack. What he really did think, there is no saying. As the burghers put it,
"We are trying to make them frightened, but the thing to know is, did they get frightened?"
For this concluded our programme for the day, and we retired for the night, leaving the enemy
in doubt as to whether we meant to give him any further trouble, yet without any apology for
having disturbed his rest.

The result of this bloodless fight was nil in wounded and killed on both sides.

On the 12th of February, 1901, the first death-sentence on a traitor on our side was about
to be carried out, when suddenly our outposts round Belfast were attacked by a strong British
column under General Walter Kitchener. When the report was brought to our laager, all the burghers
went to the rescue, in order to keep the enemy as far from the laager as possible, and beat
them back. Meanwhile the outposts retired fighting all the while. We took up the most favourable
positions we could and waited. The enemy did not come up close to us that evening, but camped
out on a round hill between Dullstroom and Belfast and we could distinctly see how the soldiers
were all busy digging ditches and trenches round the camp and putting up barbed wire enclosures.
They were very likely afraid of a night attack and did not forget the old saying about being
"wise in time."

Near the spot where their camp was situated were several roads leading in different directions
which left us in doubt as to which way they intended to go, and whether they wanted to attack
us, or were on their way to Witpoort-Lydenburg.

The next morning, at sunset, the enemy broke up his camp and made a stir. First came a dense
mass of mounted men, who after having gone about a few hundred paces, split up into two divisions.
One portion moved in a westerly direction, the other to the north, slowly followed by a long
file, or as they say in Afrikander "gedermte" (gut) of waggons and carts which, of course,
formed the convoy. Companies of infantry, with guns, marched between the vehicles.

I came to the conclusion that they intended to attack from two sides, and therefore ordered
the ranks to scatter. General Muller, with part of the burghers, went in advance of the enemy's
left flank and, as the English spread out their ranks, we did the same.

At about 9 a.m. our outposts near the right flank of the English were already in touch with
the enemy, and rifle-fire was heard at intervals.

I still had the old 15-pounder, but the stock of ammunition had gone down considerably and
the same may be said of the pom-pom of Rhenosterkop fame. We fired some shots from the 15-pounder
at a division of cavalry at the foot of a kopje. Our worthy artillery sergeant swore he had
hit them right in the centre, but even with my strong spy-glass I could not see the shells
burst, although I admit the enemy showed a little respect for them, which may be concluded
from the fact that they at once mounted their horses and looked for cover.

A British soldier is much more in awe of a shell than a Boer is, and the enemy's movements
are therefore not always a criterion of our getting the range. We had, moreover, only some
ordinary grenades left, some of which would not burst, as the "schokbuizen" were defective,
and we could not be sure of their doing any harm.

The other side had some howitzers, which began to spit about lyddite indiscriminately. They
also had some quick-firing guns of a small calibre, which, however, did not carry particularly
far. But they were a great nuisance, as they would go for isolated burghers without being at
all economical with their ammunition.

Meanwhile, the enemy's left reached right up to Schoonpoort, where some burghers, who held
good positions, were able to fight them. This caused continual collisions with our outposts.
Here, also, the assailants had two 15-pounder Armstrong's, which fired at any moving target,
and hardly ever desisted, now on one or two burghers who showed themselves, then on a tree,
or an anthill, or a protruding rock. They thus succeeded in keeping up a deafening cannonade,
which would have made one think there was a terrific fight going on, instead of which it was
a very harmless bombardment.

It did no more harm than at the English manoeuvres, although it was no doubt a brilliant demonstration,
a sort of performance to show the British Lion's prowess. I could not see the practical use
of it, though.

It was only on the enemy's right wing that we got near enough to feel some of the effect of
the artillery's gigantic efforts, which here forced us to some sharp but innocent little fights
between the outposts. At about 4 o'clock in the afternoon, the British cavalry stormed our
left, which was in command of General Muller. We soon repulsed them, however. Half an hour
after we saw the enemy's carts go back.

I sent a heliographic message to General Muller, with whom I had kept in close contact, to
the effect that they were moving away their carts and that we ought to try and charge them
on all points as well as we could.

"All right," he answered; "shall we start at once?" I flashed back "Yes," and ordered a general
charge.

The burghers now appeared all along the extended fighting line.

The enemy's guns, which were just ready to be moved, were again placed in position and opened
fire, but our men charged everywhere, a sort of action which General Kitchener did not seem
to like, for his soldiers began to flee with their guns, and a general confusion ensued. Some
of these guns were still being fired at the Boers but the latter stormed away determinedly.
The British lost many killed and wounded.

The cavalry fled in such a hurry as to leave the infantry as the only protection of the guns,
and although these men also beat a retreat they, at least, did it while fighting.

I do not think I overstate the case by declaring that General Walter Kitchener owed it to the
stubborn defence of his infantry that his carts were not captured by us that day.

Their ambulance, in charge of Dr. Mathews and four assistants, and some wounded fell into our
hands, and were afterwards sent back.

We pursued the enemy as well as we could, but about nine miles from Belfast, towards which
the retreating enemy was marching, the forts opened fire on us from a 4·7 naval gun and they
got the range so well that lyddite shells were soon bursting about our ears.

We were now in the open, quite exposed and in sight of the Belfast forts. Two of our burghers
were wounded here.

Field-Cornet Jaapie Kriege, who was afterwards killed, with about 35 burghers, was trying to
cut off the enemy from a "spruit"-drift; the attack was a very brave one, but our men ventured
too far, and would all have been captured had not the other side been so much in a hurry to
get away from us. Luckily, too, another field-cornet realised the situation, and kept the enemy
well under fire, thus attracting Kriege's attention, who now got out of this scrape. 

As he looked at Palma, he saw that on her tongue was the body of Christ in the communion wafer
that, which was easy because her eyes were shut and her mouth open.

He right away knelt down, too, and worshipped it. She stuck her tongue out even more seemingly
to show him that it was actually there before she closed her mouth and ate it, staying completely
still on the sofa she was lying on. It was almost dusk, around 4pm, and the room just had one
small high window. The wafer had looked to him like thick white wax.

Because it was almost dark and because of the brief time it appeared,
he couldn't tell whether it had the marks of the church on it.

We should also say with regard to what happened that Palma told Dr.
Imbert-Gourbeyre that on a few occasions it was the devil who'd brought
her this host--the waver believed by most Christians to be Christ's
actual body--and so she'd refused it on those occasions.

He sometimes disguised himself as an angel, but she still recognized him because he had a sign
on his forehead, which was a little horn. Also she noticed that he was hesitant and embarrassed.
That's when she sang the Gloria Patri and made the sign of the cross, causing him to immediately
flee so that he disappeared.
 Some of these treacherous Boers occasionally
fell into our hands, and were tried by court martial for high treason; but however damning
the evidence brought against them they usually managed to escape with some light punishment.
On some occasions sentence of death was passed on them, but it was invariably commuted to imprisonment
for life, and as we had great difficulty in keeping such prisoners, they generally succeeded,
sooner or later, in making their escape. This mistaken leniency was the cause of much dissatisfaction
in our ranks, which deeply resented that these betrayers of their country should escape scot-free.

About this time a society was formed at Pretoria, chiefly composed of surrendered burghers,
called the "Peace Committee," but better known to us as the "Hands-uppers." Its members surreptitiously
circulated pamphlets and circulars amongst our troops, advising them to surrender and join
the enemy. The impartial reader will doubtless agree that such a state of things was not to
be tolerated. Imagine, for example, that English officers and soldiers circulated similar communications
amongst the Imperial troops! Would such proceedings have been tolerated?

The chairman of this society was a man by the name of Meyer De Kock, who had belonged to a
Steenkampsberg field-cornet's force and had deserted to the enemy. He was the man who first
suggested to the British authorities the scheme of placing the Boer women and children in Concentration
Camps--a system which resulted in so much misery and suffering--and he maintained that this
would be the most effective way of forcing the Boers to surrender, arguing that no burgher
would continue to fight when once his family was in British hands.

One day a kaffir, bearing a white flag, brought a letter from this person's wife addressed
to one of my field-cornets, informing him that her husband, Mr. De Kock, wished to meet him
and discuss with him the advisability of surrendering with his men to the enemy. My field-cornet,
however, was sufficiently sensible and loyal to send no reply.

And so it occurred that one morning Mr. De Kock, doubtlessly thinking that he would escape
punishment as easily as others had before him, had the audacity to ride coolly into our outposts.
He was promptly arrested and incarcerated in Roos Senekal Gaol, this village being at the time
in our possession. Soon afterwards he was tried by court-martial, and on the face of the most
damning evidence, and on perusal of a host of incriminating documents found in his possession,
was condemned to death.

About a fortnight later a waggon drove up to our laager at Windhoek, carrying Lieutenant De
Hart, accompanied by a member of President Burger's bodyguard, some armed burghers, and the
condemned man De Kock. They halted at my tent, and the officer handed me an order from our
Government, bearing the President's ratification of the sentence of death, and instructing
me to carry it out within 24 hours. Needless to say I was much grieved to receive this order,
but as it had to be obeyed I thought the sooner it was done the better for all concerned. So
then and there on the veldt I approached the condemned man, and said:--

"Mr. De Kock, the Government has confirmed the sentence of death passed on you, and it is my
painful duty to inform you that this sentence will be carried out to-morrow evening. If you
have any request to make or if you wish to write to your family you will now have an opportunity
of doing so."

At this he turned deadly pale, and some minutes passed before he had recovered from his emotion.
He then expressed a wish to write to his family, and was conducted, under escort, to a tent,
where writing materials were placed before him. He wrote a long communication to his wife,
which we sent to the nearest British officers to forward to its destination. He also wrote
me a letter thanking me for my "kind treatment," and requested me to forward the letter to
his wife. Later on spiritual consolation was offered and administered to him by our pastor. 

I refuse him." Then the old compaigner went to sleep, satisfied by the course of the days events, the
final day in Bury Street, just as he reckoned it should have been. "Since I am unable to continue
here, with a valet and a penurious landlady. There's nothing else I can do for, except perhaps
to giver her 20 pounds of Warrington's, but then, what is the point? She'll ask for more and
more, and more, and that blackguard Morgan will take it all.

So far as I am aware, this was the first Boer "execution" in our history. I afterwards read
accounts of it in the English press, in which it was described as murder, but I emphatically
repudiate this description of a wholly justifiable act. The crime was a serious one, and the
punishment was well deserved, and I have no doubt that the same fate would have awaited any
English soldier guilty of a similar offence. It seems a great pity, however, that no war can
take place without these melancholy incidents.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

IN A TIGHT CORNER.

It was now March, 1901. For some time our burghers had been complaining of inactivity, and
the weary and monotonous existence was gradually beginning to pall on them. But it became evident
that April would be an eventful month, as the enemy had determined not to suffer our presence
in these parts any longer. A huge movement, therefore, was being set on foot to surround us
and capture the whole commando en bloc.

It began with a night attack on a field-cornet's force posted at Kruger's Post, north of Lydenburg,
and here the enemy succeeded in capturing 35 men and a quantity of "impedimenta;" the field-cornet
in question, although warned in time, having taken no proper precautions. By the middle of
April the enemy's forward movement was in full swing. The most excellent statesmen from Dizzy
downward, MACLURE, has told me a remarkable thing. He claims that Mr. G came home before planned
because he had an odd dream. He dreamt that all his sheep had escaped. They scattered in all directions.
Each one seemed determined to attend to his own concerns.

No escape was available for us through Secoekuniland on the north, as the natives here, since
the British had occupied their territory, were avowedly hostile to us. To escape, therefore,
we would have to break through the enemy's lines and also to cross the railway, which was closely
guarded.

The enemy were advancing slowly from various directions. All our roads were carefully guarded,
and the cordon was gradually tightening around us. We were repeatedly attacked, now on this
side, now on that, the British being clearly anxious to discover our position and our strength. With
his little band of thirty men, Captain Comey took his old position. He ramained on the north bank
of the river til morning, when he would rejoin the regiment.

We had brought every officer of "ours" out of the fight alive and our bivouac the night of the
battle was unusually cheerfu.

Captain Frank Crowninshied, who usually recieved a buet into him somehwere, was cheerfu, like
the Irishman at the far, with a hole in the crown of his hat.

The conference, which was held over the events of the day, was lit by the many a fence rail that
was burned.

We had been separated during the fight, and each eaxperiance of each of us had to be discussed
in the group by turn; and, the night was long of comparing notes with the assistance of some
of the Third Wisconsin Officers.

Our forces had gained what they had set out to accomplish. Their troopers had been severely punished
by cavalary they had always considered no match to their own, leaving the momentous cavalry schemes
of the enemy frustrated.

After a long period of mismanagement, disaster, sacrifice, blood and tears to which the Army
of the Potomac had passed, with steadiness of a purpouse and undaunted
courage to which has never been supassed, the turning-point finally
came.

In brilliant conflict at Beverly Ford, or "Fleetwood," as the Rebel Chief, Stuart would call
it.

It was at just the right moment, a blow to the enemy's cavalry,
and was productive of important results. Followed by Pleasanton in
battles of Aldie, Middleburg, and Upperville, holding Stuart in check
and keeping Hooker fully infomred to the movements of the enemy. While
General ee was in constant anxiety, and wanting information during
his march up the Cumberland Valley and, in fact, during the whole
of the Gettysburg Campaign. We had placed our hospitals as well as we could, one in an empty school-building
at Mapochsberg with 10 wounded, under the care of Dr. Manning; the other, our only field-hospital,
at Schoonpoort, under the supervision of Dr. H. Neethling. Whether these poor wounded Boers
would have to be abandoned to the enemy, was a question which perplexed us considerably. Their
opinion is wrong, who believe that all mouths profit in a country that consumes its produce,
and can be truly said, that kind who does not serve the Commonwealth,
either by being employed or employing others is not only unnecessary,
but an offensive in this State.

As a charity, and what really owe it to human nature, to provide for the elderly, lame, sick,
blind, and impotent, so it is not justice we owe to the Commonwealth to suffer, such as would
be health, and may continue, to be drones and live on the work of others.
Most, such as are a burden to the public is cottagers and paupers, beggars in big cities and
towns, and vagrants.
In a survey of books fireplace, made in Michaelmas, 1685, found that 1.3 million households in
the whole kingdom, that of a stack amounted to 554,631, but some of these lands have about them,
all our calculations, we have calculated the cottagers, but 500,000 families, but among them,
many can earn their livelihood, and no charge for the parish, which
is why Mr. King very wisely calculates his cottagers and paupers,
decreasing the wealth of the nation but least 400,000 families, in
which he includes the account of poor houses in cities, towns and
villages, to which he believes 30,000 homeless, and all these together
to make up 1.33 million head.

This is a very large proportion of people are a burden on the other hand, is weighing the interests
of land, of which landed gentlemen certainly be very sensitive.
 Bleriot's motor did its work, and though the wind
tossed his plane perilously when he came close to the cliffs of the English coast, he landed
successfully and won the prize of 10,000 pounds.

His competitor in the cross-Channel flight, M. Humbert Latham, had a peculiar outlook on life.
It was a puzzling blend of possitive and negative, which baffled both himself and others. This
outlook, if it must be called something, might be called an artistic
temperament. Not being over anxious to satisfy their curiosity, they sent round
word at once for us to lie low, and we started very carefully exploring the neighbourhood. DR.
DE JONGH'S LIGHT BROWN COD LIVER OIL. Designed for remedial use in the Loffoden Isles, Norway,
and placed to the examination of chemical study. The most efficient preparation used for Consumption,
Asthma, Gout, Chronic Rheumatism, and every Scrofulous Diseases.
Permitted of and suggested by BERZELIUS, LIEBIG, WOEHLER, JONATHAN
PEREIRA, FOUQUIER, and several other reputed therapeutic men and scientific
chemists in Europe.

Specially rewarded with medals by the Governments of Belgium and the Netherlands. Have nearly
fully outdated every other variety on the Continent, in consequence of its proved greater power
and efficacy--effecting heals much more quickly. 

The ship had a length of 236 feet and a registered tonnage of 1,300. The date of departure from
New York was 28th March, 1819, and it was due to arrive in Liverpool on 19th June. There was a stop
planned at Savannah on 7th April. The engines were removed from the
ship on her return voyage, but the ship sank somewhere in the region
of Long Island.

The British company "Great Western Railway" set up the "Great Western Steam Company" using steam
technology with a plan to have linked ships running in tandem with the railway lines. By April
1838 they had built a huge ship to sail out from Bristol, called the "Great Western". At the
time it was the biggest steamer to sail the seas, with no less than 750 horse power in her engines.
A competitor had just beaten them to it, however, since the St. George's Steam Packet Company
had set sail on the 29th March with a ship from London called S.S.
Sirius.

This ship had a tonnage almost as large, at 700 tons, but the engines were far less powerful,
at 320 horse power. The ship sailed from London to Cork with 22 passengers, and picked up more
passengers there before sailing on to its destination in New York. The two ships met in the
river Thames, where the Great Western was at the time engaged in a tourist trip, and they had
a little race to see which ship was the faster. The Sirius won this contest and then carried
on her way to Cork. The two passenger ships crossed the Atlantic safely. The Sirius left Cork on
9th April and arrived first in New York. The Great Western sailed from Bristol on 12th April
and arrived a few hours later.

The Great Western was a very successful passenger ship. Its fastest crossing was in 12 days
and 7.5 hours, out of a total of 64 Atlantic journeys.
 A fair lady-- "O!how beautiful she is! her lovely hand thought
less brilliant is laid on Alice alabaster forehead in melancholy affection, she part the clustered
golden hair about her brows;" but yet she is the owner of pure and
gleaming soul which shine out in her skin. Shortly before sunset I despatched 100 mounted men to ride
openly in the opposite direction to that which we intended to take, so as to divert the enemy's
attention from our scene of operations, and sat down to wait for darkness. 

His task was easy for him to remember.

Sandy was not a book worm. but his lessons were to him like milk
and water.He closely observed nature, engaged deeply in every creature
and plants as if it murmurs to him in their language of affection.

He visualized that the energy existing in the flower i is identical to his. In the class he was
still. His memorizing power was great that I cannot say he was found of mathematics but he
by hearted very easily. He often concerned himself that "Latin to him is no more difficult,
than for a blackbird to whistle" re3minding the words of o'Butler.
I was proud of Sandy that classic were his peculiar hobby, and often wished that I could diverge
his studies to practical utility.

His exercises revealed that he was a genius in poetry, and of great degree. His parents were
very poor that I often wondered how poetry can improve his finance. Since I have considered
poetry as a profitless entity, I never encouraged his great aptitude to poetry. Often I emphasized
that-

To present yourself in a respectable manner before the society, boldness and originality of
your ideas has to be shaped and tuned properly irrespective of your rich poetic ideas. Writing
of poems will help only as an exercise and amusement and is an art for idle people. Poems will fill
your ears rhythmically , but will not fill your pocket with money. Eminent Homer had sung his
own verses about the streets, which you would have heard-

"seven cities now contend for Homer dead, Through which the living Homer begged his bread".
Among poets other than Shakespeare who was heavenly genius, all other eminent like Boethius died
in prison like Savage,Platus worked as a horse, Cervants perished for lack of food, Camoens
died in almshouse. Spencer himself prayed before courts for years for a paltry pension and his
disappointment came out as -
'I was promised, on a time, To have reason for my rhyme: From that time unto this season, I
received not rhyme nor reason.'
I narrated him how blessed ones like Butler and Dryden ended their lives poverty sicken, Otway perished
by penury and Chatterton ended his life with poison.

Recent death of Robbie Burns by poverty also shows that poets ninety nine out of hundred are
facing death by poverty only.
Sandy, listened attentively. Just after that he went to study for doctor. I tried to push him
forward by getting an admission in one of the Universities through influence of a gentleman.
At this time Sandy's father died, who even for his funeral could not save anything. Widowed mother
was burdened of five younger ones to Sandy. He was the only bread-winner for the family. It
was his first year of studies.

He went out for labor during the Harvest season and could earn only small wages when he placed
it in his mothers hand the blighted scholarly lad has become a man.
I was sorry for Sandy All at once you know that mortality has none panic for you and you feel
toward your show life as you do toward these Palaces of the Mundane - the sooner compassed the better.

You traverse from court towards edifice and from edifice towards court, marveling at the symmetry
of blueprint and structure. Unity, balance, and accordance become manifest as spatial properties
- you had been lectured towards respect them as beliefs of art. You wonder whether art itself may
not be merely a matter of right spacing - the adjustment of something
towards its environment. The Adepts' supernatural power need to be proven to be true
with some evidence. This higher order way of teaching is not based on concrete proof of any
kind and is thus unsustainable.

Unlike any scientific experiment ,as in Chemistry, which is about documenting reliable records
or reports during scientific observation to prove a hypothesis (that leads to a conclusion);
the Adepts teaching is groundless. Western science is based on evidence gathered from relentless
experimentations. Then the new finding or invention is released to the outside world. Supporters
of the Adepts seem to have a blind faith of their leaders' power and will not even demand
proof of any miracle performed by them.
We are glad of the Adepts' choice of Mr. Sinnett as the go-between or middleman between us. He
is aware of how westerners think. He has a clear writing style, a modern way of speech and is
sincere about his comments and views. We are appreciative of their consideration in picking Mr.
Sinnett to interpret for us.

As a further consideration, we would like them to adapt and modify their teaching to meet the
needs of the Occidental thought method.
--An English F.T.S. London, July 1883 
Reply to an English F.T.S
Answers 
At the start of work in Fragments,it seemed unnecessary
but it is prerogative to deal with the problems of cosmic evolution
now. Most commendable to American
industry, the chance of being offered to duplicate, at the Testing Station, the conditions
represented in a mine with gas, they showed an eagerness to modify and improve their explosives
so as to enable them to answer severe mining conditions.

The same arguments may be used, in regard to the unfavorable conditions existing in mines in the
past. In spite of high death rate and in spite of the frequency of mine accidents in the United
States in cold mining as compared with that in other countries, it must be said in fairness that
rather than any willful disregard of the known laws of safety by
mine owners, this has been the result of ignorance of the actual conditions
which produce mine explosions.

American mine conditions are far different from those obtaining in mines abroad, and, as a
result, the rules which years of experience had thought to foreign colliery managers were not
quickly applied to conditions existing in American mines; but, as soon as the work at the Pittsburg
Station has demonstrated the explosibility of the coal dust from adjoining mines, and had shown
the very great safety of some explosives as compared with others. The mine owners at once are
ready to improve the conditions in their mines and take advantage of all the studies made by
the Government, thus showing clearly that the disasters of the past had been due to lack of
sufficient information rather that to any willful disregard of the value of human lives.
Examination of explosives for the Panama Canal is another of the indirect benefits of the work
of the Station. For several years the Isthmian Canal Commission has been one to the largest
users of explosives in the world, and, in the purchase of the enormous
quantities required.

It was found necessary to establish a system of carful examination and inspection.
 It is peculiar province, for example, by a court of equity
to relieve against what are called hard bargains: these are contracts that, although there
may have been no direct fraud or deceit, sufficient to invalidate a court of law, yet there may
have been some undue and unconscionable advantage taken of the necessities or misfortunes
of a party, a court of equity would not tolerate. In such cases, where foreigners were concerned
on either side, it would be impossible for federal judicatories do justice without an equitable
and jurisdiction.

Agreements to convey lands claimed under grants of different states, may provide another example
of the need for equitable jurisdiction in federal courts. This reasoning can not be so palpable in
those states where formal and technical distinction between law and equity is not maintained,
as in this state, where it is exemplified in daily practice.
Judicial authority of the Union is to expand:
Second. To make treaties, or to be carried out under the authority of the United States and
to all cases affecting ambassadors, ministers and other public authorities and consuls. They
belong to the class of fourth cases listed, because they have a clear
link with the national peace.

Thirdly. For cases of Admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. They form together the fifth class
listed in appropriate cases the courts attention.
Fourth. To controversies to which the United States must be a party. This is the third of these
classes.
Fifth. To controversies between two or more states, between a state and citizens of another State,
between citizens of different states. They are the fourth of these
classes and take part in some extent, the nature of the past. 
Sixth.
To cases between citizens of the same State, claiming lands under
grants of different states. 

Of the few instruments, which underwent little change over the course of time, the principal
was the Kinnor, a little triangular harp we find in the ancient record of Jubal. 1000 years later,
it was played before Saul to defend him from the evil spirit plaguing him. The Kinnor was also
important in temple worship, and this again was hung upon the willows of Babylon. It is suspected
that the name "kinnor" is from the Phoenician, which suggests that
the instrument is Phoenician as well.

However, it is difficult to see how this is possible, as Jubal lived far before the founding of
the great Mediterranean metropolis. The kinnor has ten to twenty strings, and the accompanying
illustration shows its usual forms.

The strings were fastened to the sounding board along a metal rod. This harp is very different
from Egyptian harps, and they were not of as good quality. However, there are over six terms
used to describe the kinnor. Here are its forms:

The psaltery is also mentioned in the English version of the Bible. The form of this instrument
is uncertain, but was most likely four-sided. It was likely a type of harp. The nebel is also
said to be a psaltery, but its etymology suggests the Phoenician "nabal," a triangular harp. Some
psalteries were most likely triangular as well as four-sided. The psaltery was likely the predecessor
of the Arab canon, which is probably similar to the santir. (See Fig. 25.)
Much like Egypt, we find a progression from male-only musicians to
almost exclusive women-musicians.

Jubal discovered the harp, and David played before the lord, but
when he sang his wife found it unmanly.

Moses's sister Miriam is often represented as a musician.

However, some speakers, like the apocryphic son of Sirach warns us to "beware of female singers."

The Hebrews likely had a larger harp as well, much like one found in Egypt. The form is likely
Assyrian, as it is clearly not Egyptian.
The Temple's liturgical practices must have been awe-inspiring and magnificent. In the Temple
the Hebrews heard the words of David and the prophets, an intersection of liturgy and poetry.
This formula developed a situation where the congregations could easily respond to each other,
according to liturgical parallelism. When one priest intoned a line, the whole choir of Levites
likely answered. 

As Jim Woppit dashed ahead, his face showed a picture of terror.

"Who's hurt?--who is it?--who's killed? he asked frantically.
No one answered, and to Jim that meant everything. Jim jumped from
his horse, kneeled at the dying boy's side, and took his badly bruised
head into his lap. Aside from his bitter and sarcastic nature, Croker was also agreeable. His ill natured
expression was in great contrast to that of Walter Scott who had a generally benevolent nature.

I never assisted at a more agreeable dinner. The poets, statesmen,
soldiers and myself drank wine in large quantities, and I certainly
felt the effects the next day. He then carefully caressed my hand and started to
examine it very attentively. He counted my all fingers and he enclosed pleasantly his hand
into my hand.

Finally after examination for sometime, he carefully accepted something by shaking his head slowly
up and down and started to inquire me by some questions like who are you? What are you doing here?
How did you come here? I told him by tracing the impression of a ship on the sand, by asking
some enquires by making use my known Arabic words, and through some gestures, I came here. By
replying so, I made him to understand somewhat clearly.
Due to his understanding he accepted me to provide his assistance to conduct to the place appointed
for us.

Moreover, I also informed him, that I am ready to help him enormously and also abundantly I would
like to help him for his struggling troubles. From my point of such arguments and hopeful statement,
he had clearly understood what I said in fact and he has become very positively clear in his
mind about all of my saying.

Then he immediately attached and twisted all his fingers with my fingers with intimacy and he tried
to exhibit his close hearty relationship and unity with myself from
that minute.

Also he showed his whole hearted acceptance and effects for my all statements to him.  
As
per my symptomatic love and care on him, I presented him two most beautiful watches and out
of them one was a repeater. Besides I presented him their chains, a gold buckle for the neck
cloth, two pair of silver buckles, a ring set with diamonds, a goblet and silver cover, and
the sum of two hundred and twenty levers in specie. But at the same time, I could very well guess
that if the jewels were accepted by him whole heatedly, then the silver was much more so. He kept
all of such jewels with great care secretly with his shirt pocket. He was wearing the blue color
shirt and also he promised me that he would not forget me and abandon me ever. The precaution
measures which I had taken to save all these jewels, for the purpose of the hope of gaining,
by their all ways, for the good will of any person into whose hands I should fall and took
care, consequently proved a cause of very great regret to me. As soon as my Arab had secured
his booty, he inquired me about what are all coast we had been shipwrecked. I explained all of
them very clearly to him and he immediately called upon some of his
people who are most willing to follow him sincerely. . Some say that
if Abraham Lincoln removed from the office of the President, and the Democrats once again ran
the government, the Confederate Rebels would lay down their weapons and cease the succession from
the United States, only if things were to return to the way they were before he was elected. The
rebellion was the result of the political shift that occurred in 1860, therefore if this shift
was reversed and the former government reinstated, there would be no reason to rebel, and
the succession movement would collapse. This mind set, one which justifies violence and bloodshed
based on the outcome of an election would result in the country's downfall if allowed to persist.
 At the age of 32 he was compelled
by President Madison to fill the vacancy of Associate Justice ship
in the Supreme court of the United States.

This post was first offered to Levi Lincoln and John Quincy Adams. Even though this offer forced
him to surrender heavy professional emolument, the high honor, permanence of the tenure and
his love for juridical studies attracted him to this prestigious post.  William Pitt developed
a hatred against him just because of the reason that he was young.But because of his manly integrity
he over came all the problems of hatred and envy.

One year of his performance made all silent and all of them acknowledged him as the eminent justice
of the court and till his death at the age of sixty six he remained as the most respected judge
and the whole nation mourned at his death. And then came the fourth great honor of his life which
he cherished as the foremost one in his career that is the appointment
as the Law Professor in Cambridge Law School.

Mr. Nathan Dane, to express the gratitude towards the profession at large and to repay the
profits which were bestowed upon him by donating ten thousand dollars for the establishment of a new professorship.
In addition to this he annexed the condition that the judge Story should be the incumbent.To
his excitement the judge himself assented and inaugurated as Dane professor of law, with a
special view to lecturers upon the Law of nations, commercial and Maritime Law, Federal Law
and Equity.He x occupied this post till his death. As a student, as an advocate, as a statesman,
as a Judge and as an expounder of the great principles of law in all these walks of life he was
prominent. It is not proper to speak about his political career in this article. Either it
will not be our presumption to judge his judicial career.

People who are abler and older can extend their tributes towards the qualities of this eminent
judge.He was recognized as the most efficient judge where law is recognized. The law of patents
of admiralty and prizes, the jurisprudence of equity and other luminous explorations will stand
ahead as monuments of his deeds as the Egyptian pyramids.His library of treatises is considered
as a legal classic. Besides being a man of law he was well versed with literary pursuits.
He was interested with poetry, art, literature and love. He was able to digest elaborate arguments
of eminent counsel and Smollett or Walter Scott. He was twice married and he cared much for home
and his loved ones.His love towards them was in his poem of solitude which was written at the
age of twenty two.
 No
man can be a judge beyond sixty. I think there are few today who do not disapprove of this provision.
There is no station in connection with which is less adequate than that of a judge. The powers
of deliberation and compare general preserve their strength much beyond that period in men
who survive, and when, in addition to this circumstance, we consider
how few are those who survive the season of intellectual vigor, and
how unlikely it is any substantial part of the bank, either more or
less numerous, should be in that situation, at the same time, we are
ready to conclude that the limitations of this type have little to
recommend them.

In a republic, where fortunes are not rich, and pensions are not suitable, the resignation
of men from stations that have served their country with a long and useful, they depend for
their livelihood, and that will be too late to resort to any other occupation to earn a living,
must have some better apology to humanity than is found in the imaginary danger of a retired
bank.  Publius
1. See Massachusetts Constitution, Chapter 2, Section 1, Article 13.
Apparently, just to admit the dispute, the judicial authority of the Union should be extended
to descriptions of several cases: first, all those arising from the
laws of the United States, adopted by virtue of their legitimate powers
and constitutional law, 2d, to those relating to the implementation
of the provisions expressly contained in the articles of the Union;
3d, to all those in the United States are a party; Fourth, all those
which involve the PEACE of the Confederacy, if they relate to the
relationship between the United States and foreign nations, or to
Peer States, fifth, to all those that originate at sea, and are of
admiralty or maritime jurisdiction, and finally, to all those in which
state courts can not be assumed to be unbiased and objective.

The first point depends upon this obvious consideration that must always be a constitutional method
of giving efficacy to constitutional provisions.

What, for example, restrictions to resort to the authority of state legislatures, without some constitutional
mode of enforcing respect for them? States, the plan of the convention, are prohibited from making
a variety of things, some of which are incompatible with the interests of the Union, and others
with the principles of good governance.
The imposition of duties on imported goods, and the issuance of paper money, are specimens of each
species.
No man of sense will believe, that this prohibition would be carefully considered, with no effective
power in the government to restrain or correct violations of them. This power must be a direct
negative on the laws of the State or an authority in the federal courts to ignore that would constitute
a clear infringement of Articles of the Union.

There is no third way imaginable. The latter seems to have been intended by the convention preferable
to the former, and, I suppose, be more pleasing to the States.
On the second point, it is impossible, by any argument or comment,
to make it clearer than it is in itself.

If no such things as political axioms, the convenience of the judiciary in a government that is coextensive
with the laws, may be ranked among the number. The mere necessity of uniformity in the interpretation
of national laws, decides the issue. Thirteen independent courts of final jurisdiction over the
same causes, arising under the same laws, is a hydra in government, from which nothing but contradiction
and confusion can proceed.
Much less have to say about the third point.
The dispute between the nation and its members or citizens, can only
be properly referred to national courts.

Any other plan would be contrary to reason, to precedent and propriety.
The fourth point rests on this plain proposition, that the peace of the whole should not be left
at the disposal of a part. The Union will undoubtedly be answerable to foreign powers for the
conduct of its members. And the responsibility for an injury must always be accompanied by
the power to prevent it. As the denial or perversion of justice by the sentences of the courts and
otherwise, is with reason classed among the just causes of war, it follows that the federal judiciary
should have knowledge of all causes in which citizens of other countries
are concerned.

This is no less essential to the preservation of public faith that
the safety of the public peace.

 There
was never such a thing said before on earth. He rants and rages as if gone insane. He is the
greatest of the giving forth of bombast.

And yet, his plays have sections of great power, some very eloquent indeed, and some that although
a rant and argument, are in the realm of being sublime. And even with the utterances of true
passion right next to expressions as false as possible, there are times when the main characters
speak words of love and drop their roles as heroes only.
We now see Dryden as a critic and not a writer of poetry. We have spoken of his plays full of heroism
yet we must now speak of his connection to the writing of rhyming
heroic verse.

Shakespeare himself showed us that the best verse for dramatic presentation is blank verse. Yet
here we have Dryden, insisting that good plays can be written in rhyming verse. His plays are
downright bad, not just because of the rhyming verse but because they are ridiculous. Actually
the rhyming verse itself is the best thing about them. How horrid could they have been if written
in blank verse we have to wonder. Yes, his "All for Love" and "Don Sebastian" are actually in
blank verse and maybe could even be rated as fine plays. These plays are logical, he tried to
write like Shakespeare with success.

Why then should we think that those plays are better than ones written in rhyme? Because, rhyming
verse would have given his heroic plays a vastly better tone.

The rhyming verse itself can help the viewer pass through awkward and ridiculous parts of the
plays giving them a bit of beauty in the poetic sense. Rhyming verse could have made the unbearable
bearable, the dull, brilliant and helped to keep the audience interested even in the dullest
spots. We can't help but think that the audience craves the loveliness
of the rhyming poetry that they are used to and consider a work of
beauty. The letter you
received was written without my knowledge or delibrate consent.True is that ,frightened by my
husband's threats,and in some measure reconciled to the wicked imposition by knowing that, after
all ,the right child would be in his right place ,I later lent myself to danby's evil purposes.But
above all i feared for my sonwhom I fully trust he would not have
scrupled to make away with in revenge for exposing his beneficial
fraud.

 

Even though there are two language inscription, the need of the hour is a new Champollion to
open the way of treasure-house. The story of the Ancient East can be evolved from the Indo-European
language; Hittito which was widely acceptd by many scholare like Winckler, Austrian Professor
Hrozny and other Eastern Scholars. Their attempt enabled them to understand the cuneiform as
well as characters used in picture writings and thereby get an access to the glorious story of
the Ancient East.
The Jewish scriptures telling the history of both politics and religion connected with Empires
close to Palestine. The concept and intensity of Semistic Studies can be observed from Ewald's
History of the People of Israel. Wellhausen's Prolegomena in establishing Old Testament in the
history of Israel also a remarkable contribution.

Canon law was not properly arranged and the prophets kept earlier to periesty code and Psalms
was later to other two. This was projected in the writings of Vatke and Graj, Kuenen and Reurs. Any
how it was confirmed by Wellhausen that those scholars laid foundation
to the growth of Jews religion. Macmillan, Toronto $ 1.75  When my mom lets Garden. Duncan. Moffat, Yard & Co., New
York 75
Hardy garden of a woman. Ely. Macmillan, Toronto 1.75
The Garden Book beginner. French. Macmillan, Toronto 1.00
Productive Huerta. Lloyd. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia 1.50

TWENTY LESSONS IN KITCHEN
SUGGESTIONS FOR THE TEACHER  
The teacher must learn from the students
live in their own homes, which produce food is grown for domestic
use, what foods they use and how to prepare and serve food.

The instruction given in class should be based on this knowledge, and possibilities for improvement
of the accepted methods of cooking should be considered. Food should be used in recipes that
students can afford to use at home. They should be encouraged to grow in their gardens a variety of
garden products, and to keep chickens, pigs and cows.
basic principles of nutrition and sanitation must be taught. Simple meals with dishes of all
well done but must be planned. The changes should be suggested, and the value of a mixed diet
said. You must be careful not to waste time on points that do not relate to students' homes,
except in such things as are necessary to raise their ideals.

All work must be done carefully. Sanitary handling of food and care in the storage of foods should
be emphasized. Careful attention should be given to washing the dishes, care for the dish towels,
etc, with emphasis on the points involved in sanitation. Students must be drilled accurately
at all points related to the management of everything that comes
into contact with food.  
appropriate methods of sweeping and cleaning
should be employed, and rigor should be conducted in all the details
of the work. constant drilling in these processes should be given.

The order in which lessons will be given control in part, by the time of the year in which
they occur, the location, food can get, and special local needs. However, care must be taken
that the lessons are given in proper sequence, so that students can see the relationship to
one another and can appreciate the value of each.

It may be necessary to combine two lessons or to give only part of a lesson. In some of the
lessons suggested recipes that can be prepared in a short period. In all cases the choice of a prescription
must be made by the teacher. Wherever possible, simple experiments should be performed to show
the composition of, and the effect of heat on, food.
No attempt has been given a complete set of recipes, but those included here are chosen as illustrate
the topics discussed in class. The teacher who wishes to use a greater number of prescriptions
are done well supply themselves with one of the textbooks on the list. level measurements should
be used in the preparation of all recipes, and all instructions should be carefully followed.

The first lessons are more fully described than the others, providing suggestions on ways of
proceeding that can be adapted to the lessons later. 

We saw the streets overgrown with weeds and the houses that were in ill repair. We hoped that
by looking down into the water we could see the old church or castle. Will any be that way?
I said "No, they are as empty and barren as the place that was once
area of the powerful merchants."

"Not enough to make me happy," she said in her azure glasses looking
at the sun. 
It came up before we got to the open water of the ocean.
 

But, alas! somebody not so kindness as we had been there; the two
pretty eggs were gone, not a sign of them towards be sighted, and
the nest was deserted.

Yet we could not grant up a trust that she would replace, and day
as soon as day our paces swung of themselves towards the oven-bird's
nook.

This rainy day, as a dozen moments ahead of, we located the little house still unfilled, and
as ahead of we swung unfortunately away, when suddenly a novel tone burst the stillness. "Wuk!
wuk! wuk! wa-a-a-ah! wa-a-a-ah!" it cried. It was the perfect tone of a young baby, a childlike
and innocent cry. What could it be? Was a number of tramp mother no whereas rear the bushes?
Was it a novel bird with this unbird-like cry? I was startled. But my ally was smiling at my
dismay. She pointed towards the crotch of a tree, and there a saucy gray squirrel lay sprawled
out smooth, uttering his sentiments within this abominable parody
onto the human baby cry.

I suspect the former squirrel knowledgeable it from a number of abandoned newborn, and handed it
down as a choice joke upon ourselves all. At any rate this actor was not distress as his tones would
indicate; for observing that he had an audience many interested than he favourite, he heaved himself
together, whisked his bushy tail within our faces, and disappeared rear the trunk, from whence,
within one instant, his brain was thrust onto one side and his tail
onto the other.

And so he remained during we were within sight.
This absurd incident affected our mood, and soon we tramped gayly back again the gentle leaf-covered
channels, fording the freshly formed brooks, shaking showers upon ourselves from the saplings,
and reaching last, dripping but glad, onto the veranda, whereas, as soon as donning drier costumes,
we spent the lie down of the day monitoring the birds that arrived towards the trees onto the lawn.

XIX.
 He
delcared that his duty would be passed to General Grant, who was called from Memphis to regulate
an cover for General Grant. At the same time an extreme army came together and it spreaded leaving
disorder in Virgina and along the East. 

I never saw Eva searching bigger than she did that night. I lounged about the allowance until
I came to her crowd, absorbed myself there, and did some abundant flirting. I asked her to yield
a annex stroll, but her aunt overheard me and gave her a look, aloft which she said the air
alfresco was too cool. I saw the play was to be above-board. Aunt Stunner had taken affairs into her
own hands, and the bold had commenced in earnest. Mr. David Todd, Jr., was there, and Eva paid
him a acceptable accord of attention: I did not like it.
Presently she went off to ball with him, and Aunt Stunner sat down by me. Fanning herself energetically,
she said in a arcane tone, "Eva is searching acquiescently to-night:
don't you anticipate so, Mr. Highrank?"

"Miss Eva consistently looks jolly," I said shortly. I did not wish to allocution to the old lady.

"Mr. Todd appears to anticipate so too," she went on with a nod and a alive attending at me.
Evidently she was arena Todd adjoin Highrank.
"Mr. David Todd, Jr.?" I asked languidly: "he has thirty thousand a year, hasn't he?"
She looked at me acutely for an instant, again smiled and said, "How
should I know, baby Mr. Highrank?

It is his attenuate claimed arete that pleases me. I own I am blessed to see him so alert
to the adolescent for her sake. She is so abrupt and innocent, so acceptable to adorned a younger,
added adventurous affectionate of man"--here she glanced at me--"that I accede I do feel afraid
to accept her acclimatized happily. Not but that some adolescent men are exceptions," she connected
amiably, "and accomplish accomplished husbands."
"There are two classes of men," I remarked quietly.

"They can be disconnected into those who accomplish acceptable husbands
and those who don't. Wealthy men are the a lot of superior, and are
best adapted to ample the situation."

"I accede with you entirely: you are a actual alive adolescent man," agilely replied the old lady,
not acquainted the quotation.
We talked on until Eva came back: again I claimed the next waltz, and absitively I would backpack
her off from Todd. I apprenticed her hand, but she would not respond: it was apparent she
was abject orders.
"Won't you airing with me?" I aside as we were abreast an accessible
window in a abeyance of the dance. 
"I can't, Charley--indeed I
can't," as I approved to draw her outside: "I will explain addition
time." "Miss 'Lethe, you look as lovely as you used to twenty years ago". Stumbling over himself.
"Lovely, as always, Miss 'Leth", modifying his original statement. He bowed politely and she returned
the action, in a manner reflecting his own.
Turning to Frank, he said "I've got their answer, it's okay".
Frank, the young owner of Queen Bess, had been very worried regarding the sale of the mare to
the Byer Brothers. After the fire, stories were circulating that Bess may have been injured. He had
been concerned that the famous horseman borthers would decline their offer. Even before the disastor
there had been questions about whether the deal would go through. Quite welcome was the Colonel's
information.
Eagerly he inquired, "Will they take her?"
"Well no," the Colonel started, "however..."
Sadness griped Frank, and he hung his head in dispair. "It's not right then."
"Hold on," the Colonel started, "they want confirmation that she's healthy". Reading from the telegram:
"If she wins the Ashland Oaks race today, we will take her." "So, it's not bad news!"
Frank, not caring for the conditions imposed by the Dyer brothers was still a bit glum. "Only,
if she were to win!"
"Frank, she'll definitely win!", chimed in Miss Alathea.
"She must!" the Colonel enthusically added.
Frank, not so positive, was not so certain.

The events of the past few days had been incredibly difficult, especially for someone his age.
"As long as my alcoholic jockey, Ike, can stay away from the bottle...he has vowed to stay
in his room."
Chuckling, the Colonel added, "Ike will not be leaving his room. Not beause of his vow though."
Laughing harder, the Colonel said, "I have his clothing!"
"His clothing?" Frank said incredulously.
The Colonel explained, "I told him, I needed to order him new clothing for the big race, so
I needed the one suit of clothing he brought with him for sizing. He'll get all his meals, and
I even ordered him new clothes just to be nice!

He'll look fantastic riding Queen Bess in the race!!" 
How relieved
Frank was. He cared less about the clothing than the security of the
whiskey loving jockey. "Thank goodnes," he added. 
Miss Alathea,
tried to appear shocked, but had to smile broadly at the wise Colonel.
Still, she was concerned by the resolve some men show when it comes
to drink. She'd seen it before. "Keep an eye on him, if a man wants
whiskey, he'll find his way to it". Understanding the significance
of the race, she had her heart invested. Speaking of April Fool's, I just stopped writing
to try and light a cigerette. Every one of these French matches, every one is an April Fool's joke.
I suppose the parents of those Grench kids never have to worry about them smoking too young.
Even if they had a box of cigerettes hidden in their cradle, they would be of age to smoke
before they ran across a match that lit. In fact, I won't be scared to give little Al a bunch
and let him play with them in gasoline. Genji's visitor apprised him of various aspects of capital
goings-on, which he had in fact been champing at the bit to tell him for months now, revealing also
how his son's grand-pÃ¨re loved playing with him, and giving up lots
of other fascinating stories. He will give us his views on the Land Question (all sixty-two of them,
even!) in watercolor paintings, which are all bright, breezy, and delightful. If they have Home Rile,
or if they insist on having Ireland for the Irish, then we will have no wish to start a fight over
this polished painting. And if we are not allowed to have the real thing, we will find the
outright ownership of Mr. RICKATSON'S wonderful pictures to be a sub-par substitute.
_____
_____
THE THIEF
TO ALL VOLAPuK-SPEAKING FOLK:
There exists, at this very moment, no body or organization which could even hope to be to the
Volapuk-speaking world what We were whilst We remained in Northumberland Street, where We typically
looked over things. The wise are few, and governing minds are even fewer. But We have that mind,
one which We have determined to put to use with a new monthly publication.

From the start We- being human, after all- were confronted by the difficulty of finding an adequate
title. Several people suggested themselves, thinking of a Mind not
lacking in meaning. A few may be mentioned. There was the Filibuster,
the Summum Bone-'em, Macheath's Miscellany, the Monthly Marauder,
the Eviscerator, the Literary Leech, the Monthly Misappropriator,
the Sixpenny Scoop. Each has its own unique alliteration and appeal. The All Father belief and social progress do not necessirly conincide. Theoretically,
living in coastal conditions foster both social progress and the All Father belief. This is not
true from the northern coast to the centre. The All Father belief is secret on the coast. It was
not reported by Messrs. Spencer and Gillen. The south-east tribes, which are further from the
coast, profess the All Father belief and are low in social progress.
 His judgement have kept equal pace
in that conclusion.He was likely influenced in this one by the empress whose position was becoming
for the bonaparte family were now presistently and open urging a
divorce. 

[Footnot 14: Noer, I, 429.

However, Buchwald questioned the second invention.] 
(II,372) because
of what is referred to as "organ cannons" used in Europe as early
as the 15th century.

The details given will suffice in demonstrating the perfection attained in military and civil administration
through Akbar's efforts.
Justice and order reigned throughout his empire and a prosperity hitherto unknown.
Even though taxes were never more restricting in India than under the reign of Akbar, the imperial
income of a year was worth more than $120,000,000. Such a sum was considered impressive by
contemporary Europe, a fact which is particularly impressive especially considering the level
of purchasing power in the sixteenth century. [15] Most of Akbar's income was used in the construction
of benevolent institutions, inns on country roads which entertained travelers at imperial expense,
support for the poor, gifts given to pilgrims, granting loans in
scenarios where payment was never demanded and in other similar types
of uses.

I will discuss later on his encouragement of art, literature, schools and science.
[Footnote 15: Noer, I, 439.]
Akbar's patronage of the native population is significant to his success.
His effots weren't limited to merely lightening the lot of the subjugated Hindus or to relieving
Hindus of constricting burdens.
Akbar wanted to educate the Mohammedans and Hindus of the feelings of good-will and confidence,
obliging him to contend in the one case against inordinate ambition and haughtiness, and in
the other case against distrustful reserve and hate.
In this point of view he actually favored Hindus even keeping desired ones nearby and putting
them into high powered positions in the state.

He found characteristics of the Hindus (particularly the Rajputs) valuable to the stability of the
empire and useful to the promotion of the general welfare.
The faithlessness of the Mohammedan nobles and even his own relatives gave his this view. Also,
futhering his interest he was born in the home of a Rajput prince who had offered protection
and been very hospitale to Akbar's parents. 
Rajputs are descended
from an ancient Indian warrior race and are seen as brave, chivalrous,
trustworthy and possess a love of freedom, pride of race. All of which
are quite different in character from other Hindus. European
history could have been very different if, to list some of the examples, Hannibal had destroyed
Rome after Cannae and relocated the center of power in that part of the world elsewhere on
the Mediterranean sea; or if Frederick the first, known as the Great Elector, or Frederick the second,
known as Frederick the Great, or Henry the fourth, or the senior
descendants of the Royal House of Orange had gained the throne of
France during the 18th century Regency period instead of Louis the
fifteenth and Louis the sixteenth; or if General Washington had been
the leading military hero looked to by Europe at the time of the French
Revolution instead of General Bonaparte.

Factors leading to the success of institutionalized freedoms won the day in the United Kingdom but
did not succeed in various other nations, even when liberty seemed on the verge of victory there,
for no single or simple reason. Every attentive student of the British past understands the
role of James the second, who shifted the balance of power in his favor by with his conversion
to the Roman church at a key time, and sees the same issues in the final moments of Queen Anne's
life, at which time the matter of who would next wear the crown remained unresolved and disputed
because the king's male heir would not accept the legitimacy of the
Church of England.

Public opinion matters far more than legal code, which cannot function when it doesn't arise
in and speak for the will of the people; law, though, does have the potential to unify, improve, or
suggest, and with these tools may shape the opinions of the population. If not unimportant
movement forward has been accomplished, and, supported by the people, written into law, then that
legal code will go a long way to preventing the normal and cyclical recurrence of the revolutionary
thinking that inspired it. The gains enshrined in lines of legal code educate the people and
stand like a beacon of reason, and are far less likely to fall to revolution because they already
represent revolutionary values given credence through their permanent integration into a legal
system. We can see how this happened with Roman ideology, which became Roman law, and then the
law of conquered Europe under the Roman Empire, and then remained
the law or a part of it even after Roman military and political authority
declined into ruin; similarly, anyone who has a hand in setting up
the legally-sanctioned mechanisms to do with inheritance or with state-sponsored
education will have a profound impact on the way that the people of
that country think and divide themselves into social classes for centuries
to come and even beyond.

The moral of all of this is that no important revolution anywhere on this globe could have avoided
being influenced and changed - prevented, delayed, or, at least, substantively transformed - by an
enlightened lawmaker willing to negotiate.
 The dough was of the mias cakes, equanimous of rye-flour, ointment, orange-water,
and new-laid foodstuff;[5] and the intact was sparse among the guests by Guillaume; the legion himself
having been compelled to submit his middle at fare by the Look.
 At Paris, there was another attempt to"incamadine" the surrounding area
of the Champs de Mars.They tried to "round up" a number of boulevardiers,but the result was
more serious-the gleam of steel from mounted gendarmes and for his
employers it was a mandate. 

She has a son, and from a lower class having an income of two hundred pounds a year. Her origin,
like most, is obscure; but Clara possesses talents, and generosity that is disproportionate
to that of her family. Clara is plump and well-shaped, but short, with a fine dark eye and
raven locks that give her an interesting countenance. For a few years she had a liking for
the stage, and played minor theaters, under the lame "The Lady;"
a character Clara can, when she desires, support with unusual cheerfulness.

She threw splendid parties in Manchester-street, and Manchester-square, where I have seen beauties
assembled together that must have made great havoc in their time, especially among the young, the
joyful, and the generous. Like most the lower class society, Clara lacked virtue, and missed
out on opportunities.

To compensate Clara spent a short time in Scotland, but since has yet the opportunity to quit the
apprehensions of the Dunn Family. The beautiful belle in the green cape, is the celebrated
woman of noble court, Mrs.St**pd**d, of Curzon-Street, May Fair. How she aquired her present
title I know not, unless it was for her an accomplishment in the polite science of boxing and modern
patter, both in which she excellent, as poor John D_____, a handsome chemist can vouch for.

On one certain night, she followed this unfaithful lover, placing herself, without him knowing, behind his
carriage, to the home of a rial sister of Cytherea, Mrs. St**h**e.
There it was enforced, by various means, due to the law of Constancy
and Love; such measures were not in good test with the protector's
feelings.

The contract was swoon void, and the lady once more was free to choose to her lover, as long
as her lover made 200 pounds a year and had a furnished house.

She was born, the chere amie of Tom B----, who had, despite the recent science, after a short
affair at the Long's hotel, had not much the Best of it.
From him she departed quickly, and became engaged with an officer of the nineteenth Lancers;
but not liking the house she obtained the Grant of furlough, and
since been with multiple lovers, without attention to size, age, or
profession.

Her talent of love affairs, had given some men courage in the war
and can never be doubted after her affair with General Sir John D***e.
After returning through Hounsow with a review, from which she obtained
the title of the Brazen Bellona.

A pretty round face, dark hair, and fine bushy eyebrows, are unattractive; despite this the
lady is always on good terms with herself.

The belle whip driving the cab with the brown horse with white legs, is the Edgeware Diana
Mrs. S***h, who is currently engaged in an affair, with two people, Messrs O. R. and S.. There
were peepholes at the side of her machine, that imply more than curiosity,
they are said to have been invented by General Ogle, for the use of
the ladies when on active service.

The beautiful Water Lily in the chocolate-colored chariot, with blue
eyes and alabaster skin, is mrs. Mrs. Ha****y, otherwise known as
K**d***k, of Gr--n-street, and is a great favorite with everyone who
knows her, from her elegance and her beauty; currently she is under
the special protection of a city stave merchant, and has an incredibly
sincere reputation.

"You must have been a desperate fellow in your time, Crony," said
I, "among the belles of this class, or you could never have become
so familiar with their history."

 Where the bigger streams flow
out to the bays, the western area is surrounded by hills interrupted
occasionally by sandy, flat plains.

Large mountains rise straight up between Dellys and Philippeville with just a small beach area left.
The mountains fall away to the east of Philippeville and the ridge
of hills returns.

The coast is really only flat and sandy for large areas between La
Calle and Bona.

 

If the lists of genera appended hereto be perused, it bequeath be mechanical that halfway all
the cases transpire in genera where the inflorescence is simply
separated from the other branches of the emanate.

In carry rate, then, to the rate in which one region of the pivot or certain branches of a
insert are devoted to the formation of flower-buds to the exception
of bodkin -buds, is the frequency with which those flowers become
mannered with floral prolification.

Flowers produced upon indefinite inflorescences are answerable to be mannered with either rub
of prolification other frequently than those borne upon definite
inflorescences.

Prolification in both varieties is also other frequently met with in branched inflorescences
than in those in which the flowers are sessile; but the rate of branching
seems less cloth, inasmuch as this malformation is other commonly
recorded as occurring in racemes than in the other branched panicles,
&c. From the twin arrest of lump in skein, in the occurrence of
the flower, to that which occurs in the emanate in the occurrence
of definite inflorescence, it might attain 
been expected that axillary
prolification would be other frequent in plants having a cymose arrangement
of their flowers than in those whose inflorescence is indefinite;
such, however, is not the occurrence .

The ground for this may be sought for in the lengthening of the floral
pivot, so common in prolified flowers--a condition the paradox of
that which happens in the occurrence of definite inflorescence.

Median prolification occurs frequently in coupled flowers; the axillary variety, on the other
hand, is most common in flowers whose sideward organs attain 
notional
other or less of the condition of leaves.

The other coincident changes are alluded to elsewhere or do not panoply useful points of comparison,
and may therefore be passed over.
=Prolification of the inflorescence.=--This consists in the formation of bodkin -buds or of an undue
cipher of flower-buds on the inflorescence.

It must be distinguished from virescence, or the mere raw flush of the floral organs, and from
chloranthy, in which all or the greater share of the parts of the flower are replaced by leaves.
Prolification is, in detail , a formation of supernumerary buds, leafy or floral, as the occurrence
may be, these buds being sessile or stalked, the ordinary buds being not necessarily changed.
Prolification of the inflorescence, like the other varieties, admits of subdivision, not only according
to the foliar or floral temper of the germinate, but according to its point, terminal or median
and sideward.
Terminal prolification of the inflorescence, whether leafy or floral, is scant to be looked upon in
the brighten of a malformation[105] seeing that a twin condition is so commonly met with normally,
as in Epacris, Metrosideros, Bromelia, Eucomis, &c., wherein the leafy pivot projects beyond
the inflorescence decorous; or as in Primula imperialis, in which
insert, as also in luxuriant forms of P. sinensis, tier after tier
of flowers are placed in queue above the primary umbel.

Nevertheless, when we meet with such conditions in plants which, underneath ordinary point, do not
exhibit them, we must consider them as coming underneath the field of teratology.
=Median foliar prolification of the inflorescence= is frequently met with in ConiferÃ¦, and has
of belated attracted unwonted accent from the researches of Caspary,
Baillon, and others, on the morphology of these plants.

The scales and bracts of the cone in these deviant specimens frequently afford transitional forms
of the greatest value in enabling morphologists to realize the genuine temper of the floral
cloth. It would be irrelevant here to log into this text; suffice it merely to say that an assessment
of uncommonly numerous specimens of this cordial, in the common larch and in Cryptomeria Japonica,
has enabled me to verify halfway the flawless of Caspary's observations. A twin preservation
of the pivot occurred in some of the male catkins of Castanea vesca, each of which had a tuft
of dry leaves at their extremity. In the common marigold and in Lotus corniculatus I attain

also mechanical instances of this cordial.

Kirschleger[106] describes a tuft of leaves as occurring on the apex of the flowering spike
after the gestation of the fruit in Plantago, and a twin lump frequently
takes identify in the common wallflower, in Antirrhinum majus, &c.
In cases where a renewal of lump in the pivot of inflorescence has
taken identify after the maturation of the fruit, the French botanists
use the denominate recrudescence, but the lump in interrogate by
no method always occurs after the maturation of the fruit, but frequently
before.

 

"You better had the traps to see yourself, John, there is always a fuss over them every summer
since you gave them to Jack to attend. You know, like the Fairy says, he is so fond of birds, and
he knows that much about them, too, that he can not bear snaring them. "
"Know as much about them, I should think he did. Why Mr Leslie said if Jack has the means of a rope
some good books, he would be a first-rate ornithologist, which means that a man had learned in birds,
John, "says Fairy.
She has always been a shepherd called because she could talk John, and Mrs Shelley and John
were quite content that they would do so as he is her father, but persist in calling his wife
Fairy mother, for Mrs. Shelley's secret joy . They were both very attached to their foster daughter,
like the shepherd, he never contradicted her in nothing, and all over-sharp as his wife thought
of his own sons, he never had to think evil Fairy could do not, and never heard, even as her
punishment in the mildest way, because he found her, and as Mrs. Shelley remonstrated with him, as
she sometimes did, he excused himself by saying she was not his own child so he does not feel
the same about her responsibility.
Fortunately for Fairy, Mrs Shelley humor is not her and see her with the same excessive admiration
of the shepherd and the boys did, they regarded her as a superior being, and thought that her
way of queening it over them all right and the natural. Mrs Shelley loved the child she was
a mother to tender, and he is proud of her beauty and skill, and
still under the impression, as she was her son that Fairy was a woman
by birth and therefore in a very different position to any of them,
and also, any day claimed by her parents and took her own field, she
demanded the same obedience from her as she expects her own children.

"Jack did a lot better, a man learned in sheep than in birds, for he is a shepherd will be. I
can not see the use of all the leather love Jack, but it can not be any good," said the shepherd.

"Oh, you dear, good old shepherd, I think you think the world has for sheep and shepherds, the
only helpful people in it," cried the Fairy. The artist basically repeated
himself, here where he created and felt.

The triptych, which once was upon the majestic alter of the church of San Domenico, is here
and now located at one of the side altars to the right, the Virgin
with the Holy Child on her knee, is placed in the centre, his left
hand holds a rose, and his right hand is lifted in the act of benediction.

Four angels, one with a flower basket, are surrounding the throne. Mary Magdalene, St. John
Baptist, St. Matthew, and St. John the Evangelist are in the panels on the side.
 I let
them go out to dances alone, and they always find the type of supervison needed, and you know Jeanne,
dinner and warm enclosures are not for me. I make a lot of plans now, and they always manifest,
however I am not the one responsible for making them happen. 

Historicy Romance of 2 Lovers from England.- During Edward III's reign, Robert Machim, being
a distinguished gentleman, of noble birth, albeit second degree, was loved and love the beautifual
Anna d'Arfet, who was the daughter of a first class noble. Will it stop a clock?

Are you good for a bloomin' non-stop drink?

Perhaps it might stop the war?

Casey,have you ever tried it on your old lady's tongue. It would not stop that.

They were interrupted by the officer who controls the company.He said to get a move on it. His
main function is to dole out pay (when he's not stopping it), rum
and confine you to the barracks.

The general administrator is who doles out punishments such as confining you to the barracks for
offences such as too little razor, drinking too much, weak polishing, using profanity and for
being late or early during fatigue.

Some troublemaking men who are quick to provide excuses and deem witnesses liars, seem to escape
punishment all too often. Some do not even care if they are punished or not. An officer was
angry with a man named "Heaume"and said to him that he had been up to C.B twenty times now.
Heaume replied "No,Sir,-Only sixteen so far."

Working parties moved up the rail line toward Merrythought, spending seven to eight days at brake
camp, followed by a week at English Camp. A thousand people worked the Mill like never before.
A exhausted man from Stafford was quoted as saying "I am out for a rest" and the reason that
the first place was called Brake Camp is because they were "breaking us in for this hard work."

Poperinghe
made up for a week without Jerry aeroplane dropping any experimental
bombs and the unpleasant company of Jerry shells and the uncertainty
of following a gas alarm from areas with an unfavourable wind.

To be able to purchase every conceivable necessity dear to the heart of a soldier and to walk
alongside "civies" on firm roads. To enjoy the theatres and cinemas and being able to mingle with
fellow regiments compensated somewhat for what had passed.

The first Royal Guernsey Stumpy, assisted by his Middlesex pal appointed himself an authority on
Normans and their place in European history. These people were proud of their Cambrai record
and spoke little of their good deads but treasured every good word from those who had heard
of them and spoke well of them.

In the Church Army canteen a man spoke to a crowd of Essex stating that "This year the chap we
fought for is who made us who we are, even though we made a hell of a mess of England."

"If you are with the Democratic party, then you might as well be a self-government".

"Yes, I agree with what you stated."

"You do not play games like football and cricket in Guernsey." 

"Why
do we not play games?" 

The Englishman grinned as he stated "You
do not have any room...You would kick the ball over the ledge , into
the sea."

"Do they wear clothes or just a belt?"

"I don't suppose
that they eat each other?"

"I wonder if any of them are black?"

"What
do they live? Wigwams or caves?"

Stumpy shrugged his shoulders,
he was cautious of saying the wrong thing and a little hurt by the
friendly sarcasm.

"All right," take the advantage of the tiny isle
and how we had the guts to come out here he said.

"Thats right kid,"
You were a democracy, a free country long before England was England
and before the British Empire was even dreamed of. You were the first
elements of that Empire"...

"Have a blooming drink" said Stumpy,
grinning with delight.

"At Cambrai,your battallion saved a whole
division."

"Have another bloomin drink!"

Even during this rest,
working parties were sent on various, risky daily missions. The workers
complained that their physical condition was deteriorating due to
the hard labor. The workers insisted that a rest should be precisely
that and not camouflaged by heavy fatigues. They pointed out that
if Jerry came over he would find them utterly washed out and not able
to jab a bayonet into an ounce of butter, much less a man. They complained
in disgust "If they were the only available Battalion in the Army,did
they had to clean up the whole bloomin' front?

Once they were within
the hospitable walls of Talbot House, deeply embedded in comfortable
armchairs, it was easy to forget working parties and fatigues. Looking
back upon that Oasis in war's grim deserts it is hard to not to recall
a few pleasasnt memories.

At Talbot House they wrote letters to
their family pertaining to the difficult times. They read and reread
the few treasured, intimate lines of letters that they recieved from
loved ones back home on the other side of the waters. The extremely energetic Mrs. Griffin rushed into action.
Under her eye, order reigned. She oversaw the construction of new cabins, of new systems of neatness
being put in place, such that the freedmen even voluntarily began to obey her instruction.
All able body people were given, as much as possible, jobs, and the children were provided
with education during the daytime, while the adults could be taught
at night.



CAPTURING A FREEBOOTER'S LAIR.

