"So is an ox," said Ulf, quietly, and Edith Fairhair cried out "Good!" Ulf was her thrall,
and she did not like Thorold, anyway. He was too rough because he was strong, and too stupid.
Then said Ulf,

"If Sigurd was Jarl only because he is strong, Thorolf would be Jarl in his stead."

Now, Thorold was the son of Thorolf, and this was more than he could stand. He sprang at Ulf
without another word. But that son of the Forest had not been called a wildcat by Sigurd without
reason, and when they came to the ground together it was he who was on top, and he stayed there,
too, till some men came along and picked him off. Things looked black for Ulf just then.

However, it might have been worse. Thorold was not much hurt, except in his pride, and Edith
Fairhair insisted that before Ulf was flogged the matter should be judged by the Jarl himself,
which was perfectly proper, since Ulf belonged to his household. Thus Ulf found himself brought
into the hall, the steps echoing among the rafters overhead, and along past rows of shields
and spears that hung upon the wall, to where the Jarl sat at the further end, on the "high
seat" as it was called. The saga-singer sat there on the low platform, and on the high-seat
itself also rested the Jarl's other visitor, and through the window the rays of the setting
sun glinted like flame on the helmets which each chief wore, and on the golden bosses and buckles
of their armour.

Jarl Sigurd was not particularly surprised at a claim for justice, but he was surprised to
see among the witnesses his own daughter, standing modestly apart lest the stranger should
think ill of her, yet with her father's own calm, proud look in her eye. Then he saw Ulf, and
began to understand.

The trial was brief enough, for every one told the truth, even Thorold. The Jarl heard them
patiently, to the last one, then politely asked the opinion of the other chief. Now the guest,
Jarl Swend, knew perfectly well that of all the sailors in longships along that land not one
was more long-headed, more perfect in the art of war or in making other leaders at a council
believe his was the better way, than was the man who sat by his side. So he looked at Ulf and
laughed a little; then he said,

"If this black-haired thrall is guilty of aught then am I, for I too say, 'If Sigurd was Jarl
only because of his strength,' another than he might lead us in battle. Every man has two strong
arms. So strong arms are many, but wise heads are few."

Now this was a good word, and Sigurd was well pleased, as indeed he ought to have been, for
it was a great compliment to himself. But it seemed to him that it would be well for him to
say next a word which might show that he was worthy of such praise. So, after he had thought
a while, he said,

"Ulf goes free. He has done no wrong. Thorold should learn that a warrior who does not think
as well as strike is good only for rowing. Now, this is my word to thee and to all my small
people. Jarl Swend well says that strong arms are plenty, but heads to plan are few. Let us
raise up more good heads. Twelve moons from now I will call you together. On that day the boy
who brings to me the most wonderful thing which he has made with his own hands, planned out
by himself, shall receive a prize worthy of a jarl's giving."

He paused, and looked thoughtfully at Edith Fairhair's eager face. Then he said,

"If the girls wish to try it like their brothers, they too shall have a prize of their own
to win. And those who do not win it will yet be none the worse for trying."

Then Jarl Swend laughed as he looked at Sigurd, and said,

"Truly, it is not for nothing that men call thee Sigurd the Wise; now I see why the young men
who sail their longships from your vik are luckier than other men." And Sigurd was satisfied.

But when all the other lads had gone, and the sunset flush had faded into grey, Ulf lingered,
then went up to the high seat, and said, boldly,

"Jarl Sigurd, thrall am I, yet a chief's son also. Is the offer open to me?"

Sigurd looked at a scar on his arm and laughed. Then he nodded kindly, and said,

"Thrall thou art, and a chief's son also. Win thou the prize and thrall art thou no longer."

Then Ulf took a long, long look at the Jarl, a look which somehow included Edith Fairhair also,
and went away.

SPARK V.

HOW THE STAR FLEW INTO MANY PIECES, AND WHAT CAME OF IT.

What a glorious thing it is to be young and full of life! Ulf went out of the long hall so
delighted that he hardly knew whether his feet did not have wings; and he went straight to
the shore of the vik, climbed up into one of the longships, made his way to the lofty prow
and sat down to think it over. That prow curved upward and over like a great swan's neck, with
a dragon's head carved on the end, and he noted with curious eyes how here and there could
be seen a splintered scar and in it perhaps still the arrow-head that made it. He dug one out
and looked at it, with a sniff of contempt. He knew he could make a better one himself. He
did not know that that arrow-head was made in a faraway island, called Britain, where traders
went to buy tin. British arrow-heads have been great travellers.

The sight of the weapon, however, and the hole it had made gave Ulf just the tail-end of an
idea! He began to think, oh, so hard!--to think and to plan.

Up in a sheltered corner lay the Iron Star, just where it first had been flung down by its
weary-armed bearers on the day when it reached the vik. Ulf's first free act had been to arrange
a few bits of bark over it to keep it from the weather; and, being out of sight, of course
it was forgotten. But Ulf remembered! That Star had always been the good fortune of his family.
Could it not help him now? So he sat and planned, till the grey gulls ceased their restless
circling over the waters of the fjord and went to rest. But while he thought his hardest, still
through it all he seemed to hear, like a golden hum woven in and out of the fabric of his dreamsong
of freedom, the voice of Edith Fairhair.

Of course the young folks of the vik were all in a thrill of excitement. Such planning, and
telling of plans, and not a little boasting! But Ulf the Silent watched the sheep and kept
apart. One night, however, when the men were leaping, wrestling and trying other feats, Thorolf
the Strong had beaten many, when Ulf suddenly said,

"One thing, Thorolf, I would like to see done. Under yonder bark lies a black stone. I do not
think the man lives who can break it with one blow of a hammer."

This he said craftily, for he did not know just what spirit might be angered by the blow, and
if evil came of it, it was better that it came to the captor than the captive.

"Behold the man now!" said Thorolf, loudly, and kicked away the bark, then looked foolish as
he saw the Star, while all the men around sat down and laughed. But Thorolf brought a hammer
and struck a great blow. Sparks flew, and that was all, except that Ulf caught his breath and
winked. He really could not help it that first time, and felt very much ashamed. Fortunately,
every one was laughing at Thorolf and did not see him. That strong man tried again, with as
little result, and all laughed harder, even Jarl Sigurd.

This was more than Thorolf could stand. Rushing to a smithy he brought back the largest hammer
in it, swung it twice round his head, then brought it down with a crash on one of the many
lumps that studded the Star; and this time he broke it clean off. Again and again he struck,
furiously angry, breaking off lump after lump, and when the laughter became cheers he flung
down the mallet and was well pleased when the Jarl said,

"By the Hammer of Thor! Thorolf the Strong is well named!"

But Ulf was still more pleased; and when all had gone away he stored in a safe place all the
bits of the Star which had been broken off--to tell the truth, when Thorolf ended little was
left of it but bits.

From that time on, Ulf spent all his spare time in the smithy. It was not regularly in use
at that period, and few cared to ask what he was doing. Now and then a boy looked in, but all
he saw was that Ulf was forging the bits of iron into slender spindles and had a heap already
done. Such spindles made good fish-hooks, when bent and pointed, and they were well content
when he gave them one or two. Much of his time while sheep-watching he was busy also; and one
day Edith Fairhair found he had not forgotten her. She came running to the Jarl to show him
a great treasure.

Sigurd looked it over curiously. It was the long shank bone of an ox, polished till it was
as white as ivory, and carved in quaint patterns. Then on one side two figures were scratched
in quite skilfully; one evidently a captive holding out chained hands, the other a girl holding
up a knife. On the other side were the same figures, but the chain had been cut in two. Something
rattled within the bone, and taking out a pretty stopper the Jarl let fall in his lap five
slender, shining rods of steel, so beautifully round and smooth and glistening that he cried,

"Well done, Ulf! When the year is ended I think none other will surpass this."

And, indeed, in all the village round the vik there was not another such a set of knitting needles.

But Ulf the Silent looked fearlessly up at Sigurd and said,

"Needles are women's tools. The son of a chief is worth a greater price than that."

And Jarl Sigurd as he looked at him could think of nothing but of how in his own young days
he had caught a baby falcon, and of the scratchy time he had in taming it. Yet, when he had
taught it to love him in its own fierce fashion, not one of his other good things pleased him
so well as his hawk. Perhaps here was another hawk as well worth training.

As for Edith, she hugged her new gift over and over again; she was as delighted a girl as ever
stood on one foot because she was too happy to stand on two, and finally off she rushed to
show her treasure to her mother.

She had dreams of prizes, too! Out in the flock there was a white sheep which she called hers,
since she had brought it up as a lamb when its mother would not own it, as is sometimes the
way with sheep-- silly things! It was shearing-time now and she wanted that wool.

Sheep-shearing is not an easy thing for a girl to do. But she got Ulf to wash the animal under
a near-by water-fall, and to tie its feet, and after about a day of it she sheared it quite
nicely; but it would be hard to say whether the sheep or Edith was the more weary of it when
the task was done. She could say how she felt, and spoke her small mind about it with great
freedom. As for the sheep, it gave a bleat, a skip, and went off with a great tail-wagging,
and would not come near Edith Fairhair for a week, which is a long time for a sheep to remember.

Meanwhile, Edith had the wool.

What a snowy, fleecy pile it made, to be sure! And what fun it was to take up a handful of
it, roll it into a string between her fingers, then twist one end of it around a spindle which
she would throw out in the air with a twirl that would make it spin. Of course this would twist
the wool into a thread, fine or large, according to whether the spindle was twirled strongly
or not.

All the ladies that Edith Fairhair ever saw had just such spindles and used them, too. Her
mother had one of pure gold, which had been made for a queen, and which the Jarl had brought
from a far country; and in the long winter evenings, when the storm howled without, and the
huge logs were piled on the fire, it was a beautiful thing to see the little flashing darts
flying out from the white hands toward the darkness, each held by a white cord; and foot by
foot, as the strong yarn grew in length, it would be wound for safe keeping around the little
cross on the large end of the spindle until it would quite hide it from sight. Then a slender
stick would be bent up like a "U" and tied so; and the yarn would be wound around the two arms
in long loops, all ready to be dipped in dye to colour it. If any one wanted still finer thread,
they could take this yarn and spin it still more, and with stronger fingers.

Edith Fairhair's spindle was made out of a bit of that wonderful Star. Ulf made it, and gave
it to her in his silent, boyish way. Many and many a yard of warm, thick yarn she had spun
with it before the early winter came. Then came out the precious knitting needles; and really
it seemed as though there was magic in them, so all the women said. The yarn slipped along
them so smoothly, never catching and only now and then dropping stitches! Altogether, it was
a very happy winter, and a very busy one for Edith Fairhair; and if her mother helped her now
and then over the hard places, what then? Is not that what mothers are for, and what they love
to do? Still, the most of the great work Edith did herself. She only asked to be shown how,
and very contentedly did the rest.

Then, winter was the time for weaving. This Edith could not do, as yet. She was not quite strong
enough. One had to sit in a frame that had a row of threads stretched across it, with another
row running the same way but so fastened that at one end they could be either raised up above
the level of the first row or dropped beneath it. Sitting at the tied end her mother would
throw a little wooden boat skimming between the two sets of threads, from one side to the other,
the boat being laden with a spool of yarn and dragging a thread behind it. When the boat reached
the other side, the thread would be drawn tight. Then with the foot in a strap the loose bar
would be drawn down, taking one set of threads with it, and there would be the boat's thread
caught as in a trap. Then the boat would come flashing back on its return voyage, up would
go the bar again, and that thread would be fast, too, just as the other was; and so the cloth
would grow, by just the width of the boat-thread, with each trip.

It was slow work, to be sure; but then, one had plenty of time. Then, too, it was such pretty
work! One could have several little boats, each laden with a differently coloured thread. By
using two at a time, going opposite ways, the cloth would have a "pepper-and-salt" mixture
of colour, as we call it now; or by using one for a time and then the other, it would make
broad stripes of colour, which was thought very fine. Yet, after all, Edith Fairhair thought
nothing could be prettier than pure white--if only it was kept white. But, white or coloured,
she never tired watching the flying shuttles, as we call the little boats to-day.

Meanwhile, all through the winter, merrily rang the smithy with clink of hammer on heated steel.
After that gift to Edith the Jarl told Ulf he might take all the time he needed for his freedom-work;
and he took it. Pounds of steel needles had been made and stored away. He had tried to remember
all he ever heard about how to temper them, and he already had learned to watch the glowing
steel slowly change its colour from dazzling white as it cooled to rose red, and at just the
right moment to plunge it into water. But he only tried it on one or two bits, as yet, just
to make sure he was right; and these utterly astonished him by their hardness. No iron that
he had ever seen was like it. Of course he laid it all to the magic of the Star, as many a
warrior did in after years, not knowing that in that kind of iron there is often a small mixture
of nickel, such as our five-cent piece is made of, and that steel made from such a mixture
is harder and tougher than any other kind. Bicycle-makers have found this out for themselves,
and know the reason of the toughness, but it was a great mystery to Ulf.

It made him very happy, however; and blithely clinked his small hammer as he worked away, weaving
a strange kind of cloth that was not made of soft wool, nor was it woven in a loom with flashing
shuttle. Instead, inch by inch of it, as it grew, was thrust into the glowing coals and heated;
first in the shape of slender steel needles, which were cut off and twisted into tiny rings,
dozens of them; then these were hooked into each other, ring into ring, and hammered while
still hot till each was solid, and as though it had never been straight in its life or anything
else but a ring, without beginning or end. Then came the great thing--the tempering. How anxiously
he watched it! How carefully he blew the fire as the strip of iron cloth lay in the coals!
Then what a hissing it made and what a shout of triumph Ulf gave when at last the perfect temper
was reached and the strip was bubbling the water! Many such strips lay piled in a dry place
before spring came, and with it the time for joining them all together.

It was a great day for the young folks of the vik when the contest was to be decided. Half-a-dozen
longships of other jarls happened to be in port at the time and Jarl Sigurd was not sorry to
let his visitors see what his young people could do. Wonderfully well made were many of the
trials. One boy showed a bow of two great horns joined together, which only Thorolf the Strong
could bend. Another showed an oxhorn, with the tip cut off and ornamented, and the whole horn
carved in spiral grooves; and raising it to his lips he blew a blast that could be heard a
mile! There seemed to be as many different things as there were boys and girls to make them;
and Jarl Sigurd was pleased indeed when the other jarls with one voice said that among the
works of the girls the finest and most useful of all was a snow-white garment like a knitted
jersey, made from the sheep's wool by Edith Fairhair. How her cheeks glowed bright red, and
how bright her eyes shone, when she had to wear it before them and say who made it! What was
the value of the prize compared with the look her father gave her! yet, those bracelets were
of pure gold, and came from far across the seas.

"But where is Ulf?" said Sigurd, suddenly. "The lad is proud, and I hope he has not failed."

"My thrall does not fail in what he tries to do!" said Edith, and the jarls all laughed, save
Sigurd, who shook his head with smiling reproof, saying,

"The thrall waits till after the freeman, and that is well. Now, some one call him."

Then Ulf the Silent stepped forward from behind the throng, and laid before the jarls a package
that was carefully wrapped in deerskin. It gave a soft, musical tinkle as he laid it down and
vanished in the throng again. With laughter Jarl Sigurd stooped forward, saying,

"The lad was braver when he sent an arrow through my arm than he is to-day," and untied the
package. "It is not light, jarls. What!--by Thor and Odin, and all the gods of Valhalla! when
did man ever see the like?"

Oh, what a rare sight it was!--thousands of tiny rings of steel, cunningly woven together by
the hand of one whose father and whose father's father had worked in metal, and who had taught
him all they knew! The light rippled across the folds in flashes like molten silver; the loose
links along the edges rang like fairy bells, and not one jarl in all his travels had ever seen
a more beautiful shirt of mail. A king of kings might be proud to wear it. Yet it was made
by Jarl Sigurd's thrall!

