This brings us to a form of insanity which the obsessive may well bear in mind, namely, that
known as manic-depressive. This disorder, in its typical form, is shown by recurring outbursts
of uncontrollable mental and physical activity (mania), alternating with attacks of profound
depression (melancholia). This form of insanity represents the inability to control an extreme
degree of the varied moods to which we all are subject. Long before the modern classification
of mental disorders, Burton, in his introduction to the "Anatomy of Melancholy," expressed
this alternation of moods thus:

 "When I go musing all alone,
  Thinking of divers things foreknown,
    When I build castles in the ayr,
    Void of sorrow and void of feare,
  Pleasing myself with phantasms sweet,
  Me thinks the time runs very fleet.
  Do not, O do not trouble me,
  So sweet content I feel and see.

The depressed stage of this disorder is commonly shown by retardation of thought and motion,
the excited stage by pressure of activity and acceleration of thought. In the so-called "flight
of ideas" words succeed each other with incredible rapidity, without goal idea, but each word
suggesting the next by sound or other association, thus:

"Are you blue?"

"Blue, true blue, red white and blue, one flag and one nation, one kingdom, one king, no not
one king, one president, we are going to have a president first, cursed, the worst."

Who does not recognize the modest prototype of this elaborate rigmarole chasing itself through
his mind as he walks the street in jaunty mood, and who of us would not surprise and alarm
his friends if he should suddenly let go his habitual control, express his every thought and
materialize his every passing impulse to action? Who can doubt that the person who has trained
himself for years to repress his obsessions is less likely to give way to this form of insanity
than one who has never practiced such training? Let us then endeavor to pursue "the even tenor
of our way" without giving way to the obsession that we must inflict our feelings upon our
associates. We may in this way maintain a mental balance that shall stand us in good stead
in time of stress.

The autumnal tendency to melancholy is recognized by Thoreau. The characteristic suggestion
of this nature-lover is that the melancholic go to the woods and study the symplocarpus foetidus
(skunk cabbage), whose English name savors of contempt, but whose courage is such that it is
already in the autumn jauntily thrusting forth its buds for the coming year.

An admirable reflection for the victim of moods, as for many another, is the old saying in
which Abraham Lincoln is said to have taken peculiar comfort, namely, "This also will pass."

XV.

RECAPITULATORY

And found no end in wandering mazes lost.

Paradise Lost.

We have reviewed the various phases of worry and the elements out of which worry is assembled.
It has been seen that exaggerated self-consciousness blocks effort through fear of criticism,
ridicule or comment. The insistent habit of mind in the worrier has been found to permeate
the content of thought, and unfavorably to influence action. The fact has been pointed out
that the obsession to do the right thing may be carried so far as to produce querulous doubt
and chronic indecision--hence worry.

It has been pointed out that over-anxiety on the score of health (hypochondria) aggravates
existing symptoms, and itself develops symptoms; that these symptoms in turn increase the solicitude
which gave them birth. Attention has been called to the influence of over-anxious and fretful
days in precluding the restful state of mind that favors sleep, and to the influence of the
loss of sleep upon the anxieties of the following day; in other words, worry prevents sleep,
and inability to sleep adds to worry.

