The Mystery of the Four Fingers

BY FRED M. WHITE

Author of "THE MIDNIGHT GUEST," "THE CRIMSON BLIND," Etc., Etc.

1908

CONTENTS

     I.  THE BLACK PATCH

    II.  THE FIRST FINGER

   III.  THE LOST MINE

    IV.  IN THE LIFT

     V.  A PUZZLE FOR VENNER

    VI.  A PARTIAL FAILURE

   VII.  THE WHITE LADY

  VIII.  MISSING

    IX.  A NEW PHASE

     X.  THE SECOND FINGER

    XI.  AN UNEXPECTED MOVE

   XII.  THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR

  XIII.  THE WHITE LADY AGAIN

   XIV.  MASTER OF THE SITUATION

    XV.  FELIX ZARY

   XVI.  FENWICK MOVES AGAIN

  XVII.  MERTON GRANGE

 XVIII.  A COUPLE OF VISITORS

   XIX.  PHANTOM GOLD

    XX.  THE PRODIGAL'S RETURN

   XXI.  THE THIRD FINGER

  XXII.  "THE TIME WILL COME"

 XXIII.  SMOKED OUT

  XXIV.  THE MOUTH OF THE NET

   XXV.  AN ACT OF CHARITY

  XXVI.  THE LAST FINGER

 XXVII.  NEMESIS

XXVIII.  EXPLANATIONS

  XXIX.  THIS MORTAL COIL

   XXX.  A PEACEFUL SUNSET

CHAPTER I

THE BLACK PATCH

Considering it was nearly the height of the London winter season, the Great Empire Hotel was
not unusually crowded. This might perhaps have been owing to the fact that two or three of
the finest suites of rooms in the building had been engaged by Mark Fenwick, who was popularly
supposed to be the last thing in the way of American multi-millionaires. No one knew precisely
who Fenwick was, or how he had made his money; but during the last few months his name had
bulked largely in the financial Press and the daily periodicals of a sensational character.
So far, the man had hardly been seen, it being understood that he was suffering from a chill,
contracted on his voyage to Europe. Up to the present moment he had taken all his meals in
his rooms, but it was whispered now that the great man was coming down to dinner. There was
quite a flutter of excitement in the Venetian dining-room about eight o'clock.

The beautifully decorated saloon had a sprinkling of well-dressed men and women already dining
decorously there. Everything was decorous about the Great Empire Hotel. No thought had been
spared in the effort to keep the place quiet and select. The carpets were extra thick, and
the waiters more than usually soft-footed. On the whole, it was a restful place, though, perhaps,
the decorative scheme of its lighting erred just a trifle on the side of the sombre. Still,
flowers and ferns were soft and feathery. The band played just loudly enough to stimulate conversation
instead of drowning it. At one of the little tables near the door two men were dining. One
had the alertness and vigor which bespeaks the dweller in towns. He was neatly groomed, with
just the slight suspicion of the dandy in his dress, though it was obvious at the merest glance
that he was a gentleman. His short, sleek hair gave to his head a certain suggestion of strength.
The eyes which gleamed behind his gold-rimmed glasses were keen and steady. Most men about
town were acquainted with the name of Jim Gurdon, as a generation before had been acquainted
with his prowess in the athletic field. Now he was a successful barrister, though his ample
private means rendered professional work quite unnecessary.

The other man was taller, and more loose-limbed, though his spare frame suggested great physical
strength. He was dark in a hawk-like way, though the suggestion of the adventurer about him
was softened by a pair of frank and pleasant grey eyes. Gerald Venner was tanned to a fine,
healthy bronze by many years of wandering all over the world; in fact, he was one of those
restless Englishmen who cannot for long be satisfied without risking his life in some adventure
or other.

The two friends sat there quietly over their dinner, criticising from time to time those about
them.

"After all," Gurdon said presently, "you must admit that there is something in our civilization.
Now, isn't this better than starving under a thin blanket, with a chance of being murdered
before morning?"

Venner shrugged his shoulders indifferently.

"I don't know," he said. "There is something in danger that stimulates me; in fact, it is the
only thing that makes life worth living, I dare say you have wondered why it is that I have
never settled down and become respectable like the rest of you. If you heard my story, you
would not be surprised at my eccentric mode of living; at any rate, it enables me to forget."

Venner uttered the last words slowly and sadly, as if he were talking to himself, and had forgotten
the presence of his companion. There was a speculative look in his eyes, much as if London
had vanished and he could see the orchids on the table before him growing in their native forests.

"I suppose I don't look much like a man with a past," he went on; "like a man who is the victim
of a great sorrow. I'll tell you the story presently, but not here; I really could not do it
in surroundings like these. I've tried everything, even to money-making, but that is the worst
and most unsatisfactory process of the lot. There is nothing so sordid as that."

"Oh, I don't know," Gurdon laughed. "It is better to be a multi-millionaire than a king today.
Take the case of this man Fenwick, for instance; the papers are making more fuss of him than
if he were the President of the United States or royalty travelling incognito."

Venner smiled more or less contemptuously. He turned to take a casual glance at a noisy party
who had just come into the dining room, for the frivolous note jarred upon him. Almost immediately
the little party sat down, and the decorous air of the room seemed to subdue them. Immediately
behind them followed a man who came dragging his limbs behind him, supported on either side
by a servant. He was quite a young man, with a wonderfully handsome, clean-shaven face. Indeed,
so handsome was he, that Venner could think of no more fitting simile for his beauty than the
trite old comparison of the Greek god. The man's features were perfectly chiselled, slightly
melancholy and romantic, and strongly suggestive of the early portraits of Lord Byron. Yet,
all the same, the almost perfect face was from time to time twisted and distorted with pain,
and from time to time there came into the dark, melancholy eyes a look of almost malignant
fury. It was evident that the newcomer suffered from racking pain, for his lips were twitching,
and Venner could see that his even, white teeth were clenched together. On the whole, it was
a striking figure to intrude upon the smooth gaiety of the dining-room, for it seemed to Venner
that death and the stranger were more than casual acquaintances. He had an idea that it was
only a strong will which kept the invalid on this side of the grave.

The sufferer sank at length with a sigh of relief into a large armchair, which had been specially
placed for him. He waved the servants aside as if he had no further use for them, and commenced
to study his menu, as if he had no thought for anything else. Venner did not fail to note that
the man had the full use of his arms, and his eye dwelt with critical approval on the strong,
muscular hands and wrists.

"I wonder who that fellow is?" he said. "What a magnificent frame his must have been before
he got so terribly broken up."

"He is certainly a fascinating personality," Gurdon admitted. "Somehow, he strikes me not so
much as the victim of an accident as an unfortunate being who is suffering from the result
of some terrible form of vengeance. What a character he would make for a story! I am ready
to bet anything in reason that if we could get to the bottom of his history it would be a most
dramatic one. It regularly appeals to the imagination. I can quite believe our friend yonder
has dragged himself out of bed by sheer force of will to keep some appointment whereby he can
wreak his long nursed revenge."

"Not in a place like this," Venner smiled.

"Why not? In the old days these things used to be played out to the accompaniment of thunder
and lightning on a blasted heath. Now we are much more quiet and gentle in our methods. It
is quite evident that our handsome friend is expecting someone to dine with him. He gives a
most excellent dinner to his enemy, points out to him his faults in the most gentlemanly fashion,
and then proceeds to poison him with a specially prepared cigar. I can see the whole thing
in the form of a short story."

Venner smiled at the conceit of his companion. He was more than half inclined to take a sentimental
view of the thing himself. He turned to the waiter to give some order, and as he did so, his
eyes encountered two more people, a man and a woman, who, at that moment, entered the dining-room.
The man was somewhat past middle age, with a large bald head, covered with a shining dome of
yellow skin, and a yellow face lighted by a pair of deep-sunk dark eyes. The whole was set
off and rendered sinister by a small hook nose and a little black moustache. For the rest,
the man was short and inclined to be stout. He walked with a wonderfully light and agile step
for a man of his weight; in fact he seemed to reach his seat much as a cat might have done.
Indeed, despite his bulk, there was something strangely feline about the stranger.

Venner gave a peculiar gasp and gurgle. His eyes started. All the blood receded from his brown
face, leaving him ghastly white under his tan. It was no aspect of fear--rather one of surprise,--of
strong and unconquerable emotion. At the same moment Venner's hand snapped the stem of his
wine glass, and the champagne frothed upon the table.

"Who is that man?" Venner asked of the waiter. His tone was so strained and harsh that he hardly
recognised his own voice. "Who is the man, I say? No, no; I don't mean him. I mean that stout
man, with the lady in white, over there."

The waiter stared at the speaker in astonishment. He seemed to wonder where he had been all
these years.

"That, sir, is Mr. Mark Fenwick, the American millionaire."

Venner waved the speaker aside. He was recovering from his emotion now and the blood had returned
once more to his cheeks. He became conscious of the fact that Gurdon was regarding him with
a polite, yet none the less critical, wonder.

"What is the matter?" the latter asked. "Really, the air seems full of mystery. Do you know
that for the last two minutes you have been regarding that obese capitalist with a look that
was absolutely murderous? Do you mean to tell me that you have ever seen him before?"

"Indeed, I have," Venner replied. "But on the last occasion of our meeting, he did not call
himself Mark Fenwick, or by any other name so distinctly British. Look at him now; look at
his yellow skin with the deep patches of purple at the roots of the little hair he has. Mark
the shape of his face and the peculiar oblique slit of his eyelids. Would you take that man
for an Englishman?"

"No, I shouldn't," Gurdon said frankly. "If I had to hazard a guess, I should say he is either
Portuguese or perhaps something of the Mexican half caste."

"You would not be far wrong," Venner said quietly. "I suppose you thought that the appearance
of that man here tonight was something of a shock to me. You can little guess what sort of
a shock it has been. I promise to tell you my story presently, so it will have to keep. In
the meantime, it is my mood to sit here and watch that man."

"Personally, I am much more interested in his companion," Gurdon laughed. "A daughter of the
gods, if ever there was one. What a face, and what a figure! Do you mean to say that you didn't
notice her as she came in?"

"Positively I didn't," Venner confessed. "My whole attention was rivetted on the man. I tell
you I can see absolutely nothing but his great, yellow, wicked face, and for the background
the romantic spot where we last met."

It was Gurdon's turn now to listen. He leant forward in his chair, his whole attention concentrated
upon the figure of the stranger, huddled up in the armchair at the little table opposite. He
touched Venner on the arm, and indicated the figure of the man who had suffered so cruelly
in some form or other.

"The plot thickens," Venner murmured. "Upon my word, he seems to know this Mark Fenwick as
well as I do."

The maimed crippled figure in the armchair had dragged himself almost to his feet, with his
powerful, muscular arm propping him against the table. His unusually handsome face was all
broken and twisted up with an expression of malignant fury. He stood there for a moment or
two like a statue of uncontrollable passion, rigid, fixed, and motionless, save for the twitching
of his face. Then, gradually he dropped back into his chair again, a broken and huddled heap,
quivering from head to foot with the pain caused by his recent exertion. A moment later he
took from his breast pocket a silk shade, which he proceeded to tie over his eyes, as if the
light hurt him. Watching his every movement with intense eagerness, the two friends saw that
he had also taken from his pocket a small silver case, about the same size as an ordinary box
of safety matches. Indeed, the case looked not unlike the silver coverings for wood matches,
which are generally to be seen in well-appointed households. Then, as if nothing interested
him further, he leaned back in his chair, and appeared to give himself over entirely to his
enjoyment of the orchestra. In all probability no diner there besides Venner and Gurdon had
noticed anything in the least out of the common.

"This is very dramatic," Gurdon said. "Here is a melo-drama actually taking place in a comedy
'set' like this. I am glad you will be in a position later on to gratify my curiosity. I confess
I should like to learn something more about this Mark Fenwick, who does not appear to be in
the least like one's idea of the prosaic money spinner."

"He isn't," Venner said grimly. "Anything but that. Why, three years ago that man was as poor
and desperate as the most wretched outcast who walks the streets of London to-night. And one
thing you may be certain of--wherever you dine from now to your dying day, you will be under
the roof of no more diabolical scoundrel than the creature who calls himself Mark Fenwick."

There was a deep note in Venner's voice that did not fail to stimulate Gurdon's curiosity.
He glanced again at the millionaire, who appeared to be talking in some foreign tongue with
his companion. The tall, fair girl with the shining hair had her back to the friends, so they
could not see her face, and when she spoke it was in a tone so low that it was not possible
to catch anything more than the sweetness of her voice.

"I wonder what she is doing with him?" Gurdon said. "At any rate, she is English enough. I
never saw a woman with a more thoroughbred air. She is looking this way."

Just for a moment the girl turned her head, and Venner caught a full sight of her face. It
was only for an instant; then the fair head was turned again, and the girl appeared to resume
her dinner. Venner jumped from his chair and took three strides across the room. He paused
there as if struggling to regain possession of himself; then he dropped into his chair again,
shielding his face from the light with his hands. Gurdon could see that his companion's face
had turned to a ghastly grey. Veritably it was a night of surprises, quick, dramatic surprises,
following close upon one another's heels.

"What, do you mean to say you know her, too?" Gurdon whispered.

Venner looked up with a strange, unsteady smile on his face. He appeared to be fighting hard
to regain his self-control.

"Indeed, I do know her," he said. "My friend, you are going to have all the surprises you want.
What will you say when I tell you that the girl who sits there, utterly unconscious of my presence,
and deeming me to be at the other end of the world, is no less a person than--my own wife?"

CHAPTER II

THE FIRST FINGER

Gurdon waited for his companion to go on. It was a boast of his that he had exhausted most
of the sensations of life, and that he never allowed anything to astonish him. All the same,
he was astonished now, and surprised beyond words. For the last twenty-five years, on and off,
he had known Venner. Indeed, there had been few secrets between them since the day when they
had come down from Oxford together. From time to time, during his wanderings, Venner had written
to his old chum a fairly complete account of his adventures. During the last three years the
letters had been meagre and far between; and at their meeting a few days ago, Gurdon had noticed
a reticence in the manner of his old chum that he had not seen before.

He waited now, naturally enough, for the other to give some explanation of his extraordinary
statement, but Venner appeared to have forgotten all about Gurdon. He sat there shielding one
side of his face, heedless of the attentions of the waiter, who proffered him food from time
to time.

"Is that all you are going to tell me?" Gurdon asked at length.

"Upon my word, I am very sorry," Venner said. "But you will excuse me if I say nothing more
at present. You can imagine what a shock this has been to me."

"Of course. I don't wish to be impertinent, old chap, but I presume that there has been some
little misunderstanding--"

"Not in the least. There has been no misunderstanding whatever. I honestly believe that the
woman over yonder is still just as passionately fond of me as I am of her. As you know, Gurdon,
I never was much of a ladies' man; in fact, you fellows at Oxford used to chaff me because
I was so ill at ease in the society of women. Usually a man like myself falls in love but once
in his lifetime, and then never changes. At any rate, that is my case. I worship the ground
that girl walks upon. I would have given up my life cheerfully for her; I would do so now if
I could save her a moment's pain. You think, perhaps, that she saw me when she came in here
to-night. That is where you have got the impression that there is some misunderstanding between
us. You talked just now of dramatic surprises. I could show you one even beyond your powers
of imagination if I chose. What would you say if I told you that three years ago I became the
husband of that beautiful girl yonder, and that from half-an-hour after the ceremony till the
present moment I have never set eyes on her again?"

"It seems almost incredible," Gurdon exclaimed.

"Yes, I suppose it does. But it is absolutely a fact all the same. I can't tell you here the
romance of my life. I couldn't do it in surroundings like these. We will go on to your rooms
presently, and then I will make a clean breast of the whole thing to you. You may be disposed
to laugh at me for a sentimentalist, but I should like to stay here a little longer, if it
is only now and again to hear a word or two from her lips. If you will push those flowers across
between me and the light I shall be quite secure from observation. I think that will do."

"But you don't mean to tell me," Gurdon murmured, "that the lady in question is the daughter
of that picturesque-looking old ruffian, Mark Fenwick?"

"Of course, she isn't," Venner said, with great contempt. "What the connection is between them,
I cannot say. What strange fate links them together is as much a mystery to me as it is to
you. I do not like it, but I let it pass, feeling so sure of Vera's innocence and integrity.
But the waiter will tell us. Here, waiter, is the lady dining over there with Mr. Fenwick his
daughter or not?"

"Certainly, sir," the waiter responded. "That is Miss Fenwick."

There was silence for a moment or two between the two friends. Venner appeared to be deeply
immersed in his own thoughts, while Gurdon's eyes travelled quickly between the table where
the millionaire sat and the deep armchair, in which the invalid lay huddled; and Venner now
saw that the cripple on the opposite side of the room was regarding Fenwick and his companion
with the intentness of a cat watching a mouse.

Dinner had now come pretty well to an end, and the coffee and liqueurs were going round. A
cup was placed before Fenwick, who turned to one of the waiters with a quick order which the
latter hastened to obey. The order was given so clearly that Gurdon could hear distinctly what
it was. He had asked for a light, wherewith to burn the glass of Curacoa which he intended
to take, foreign fashion, in his coffee.

"And don't forget to bring me a wooden match," he commanded. "Household matches. Last night
one of your men brought me a vesta."

The waiter hurried off to execute his commission, but his intention was anticipated by another
waiter who had apparently been doing nothing and hanging about in the background. The second
waiter was a small, lithe man, with beady, black eyes and curly hair. For some reason or other,
Gurdon noticed him particularly; then he saw a strange thing happen. The little waiter with
the snaky hair glanced swiftly across the room in the direction of the cripple huddled up in
the armchair. Just as if he had been waiting for a signal, the invalid stretched out one of
his long arms, and laid his fingers significantly on the tiny silver box he had deposited on
the table some little time before. The small waiter went across the room and deliberately lifted
the silver box from the table. He then walked briskly across to where the millionaire was seated,
placed the box close to his elbow, and vanished. He seemed to fairly race down the room until
he was lost in a pile of palms which masked the door. Gurdon had followed all this with the
deepest possible interest. Venner sat there, apparently lost to all sense of his surroundings.
His head was on his hands, and his mind was apparently far away. Therefore, Gurdon was left
entirely to himself, to study the strange things that were going on around him. His whole attention
was now concentrated upon Fenwick, who presently tilted his glass of Curacoa dexterously into
his coffee cup, and then stretched out his hand for the silver match box by his side. He was
still talking to his companion while he fumbled for a match without looking at the little case
in his hand. Suddenly he ceased to speak, his black eyes rivetted on the box. It fell from
his fingers as if it had contained some poisonous insect, and he rose to his feet with a sudden
scream that could be heard all over the room.

There was a quick hush in the conversation, and every head was turned in the direction of the
millionaire's table. Practically every diner there knew who the man with the yellow head was,
so that the startling interruption was all the more unexpected. Once again the frightened cry
rang out, and then Fenwick stood, gazing with horrified eyes and white, ghastly face at the
innocent looking little box on the table.

"Who brought this here?" he screamed. "Bring that waiter here. Find him at once. Find him at
once, I say. A little man with beady eyes and hair like rats' tails."

The head waiter bustled up, full of importance; but it was in vain that he asked for some explanation
of what had happened. All Fenwick could do was to stand there gesticulating and calling aloud
for the production of the erring waiter.

"But I assure you, sir," the head waiter said, "we have no waiter here who answers to the description
of the man you mention. They are all here now, every waiter who has entered the room to-night.
If you will be so good as to pick out the one who has offended you--"

Fenwick's startled, bloodshot eyes ranged slowly over the array of waiters which had been gathered
for his inspection round his table. Presently he shook his head with an impatient gesture.

"I tell you, he is not here," he cried. "The man is not here. He is quite small, with very
queer, black hair."

The head waiter was equally positive in his assurance. Louder rose the angry voice of the millionaire,
till at length Venner was aroused from his reverie and looked up to Gurdon to know what was
going on. The latter explained as far as possible, not omitting to describe the strange matter
of the silver box. Venner smiled with the air of a man who could say a great deal if he chose.

"It is all part of the programme," he said. "That will come in my story later on. But what
puzzles me is where that handsome cripple comes in. The mystery deepens."

By this time Fenwick's protestations had grown weaker. He seemed to ramble on in a mixture
of English and Portuguese which was exceedingly puzzling to the head waiter, who still was
utterly in the dark as to the cause of offence. Most of the diners had gathered round the millionaire's
table with polite curiosity, and sundry offers of assistance.

"I think we had better get to our own room," a sweet, gentle voice said, as the tall, fair
girl by Fenwick's side rose and moved in the direction of the door. It was, perhaps, unfortunate
that Venner had risen at the same time. As he strode from his own table, he came face to face
with the girl who stood there watching him with something like pain in her blue eyes. Just
for an instant she staggered back, and apparently would have fallen had not Venner placed his
arm about her waist. In the strange confusion caused by the unexpected disturbance, nobody
had noticed this besides Gurdon, who promptly rose to the occasion.

"You had better take the lady as far as her own rooms," he said. "This business has evidently
been too much for her. Meanwhile, I will see what I can do for Mr. Fenwick."

Venner shot his friend a glance of gratitude. He did not hesitate for a moment; he saw that
the girl by his side was quite incapable of offering any objections for the present. In his
own strong, masterful way, he drew the girl's hand under his arm, and fairly dragged her from
the room into the comparative silence and seclusion of the corridor beyond.

"Which way do we go?" he asked.

"The Grand Staircase," the girl replied faintly. "It is on the first floor. But you must not
come with me, you must come no further. It would be madness for him to know that we are together."

"He will not come just yet," Venner replied. "My friend knows something of my story, and he
will do his best to get us five minutes together. You have heard me speak of Jim Gurdon before."

"But it is madness," the girl whispered. "You know how dangerous it is. Oh, Gerald, what must
you think of me when--"

"I swear to you that I think nothing of you that is unkind or ungenerous," Venner protested.
"By a cruel stroke of fate we were parted at the very moment when our happiness seemed most
complete. Why you left me in the strange way you did, I have never yet learned. In your letter
to me you told me you were bound to act as you did, and I believed you implicitly. How many
men in similar circumstances would have behaved as I did? How many men would have gone on honoring
a wife who betrayed her husband as you betrayed me? And yet, as I stand here at this moment,
looking into your eyes, I feel certain that you are the same sweet and innocent girl who did
me the happiness to become my wife."

The beautiful face quivered, and the blue eyes filled with tears. Her trembling hand lay on
Venner's arm for a moment; then he caught the girl to his side and kissed her passionately.

"I thank you for those words," she whispered. "From the bottom of my heart I thank you. If
you only knew what I have suffered, if you only knew the terrible pressure that is put upon
me;--and it seemed to me that I was acting for the best. I hoped, too, that you would go away
and forget me; that in the course of time I should be nothing more than a memory to you. And
yet, in my heart, I always felt that we should meet again. Is it not strange that we should
come together like this?"

"I do not see that it is in the least strange," Venner replied, "considering that I have been
looking for you for the last three years. When I found you to-night, it was with the greatest
difficulty that I restrained myself from laying my hands on the man who is the cause of all
your misery and suffering. How long has he been passing for an Englishman? Since when has he
been a millionaire? If he be a millionaire at all."

"I cannot tell you," the girl whispered. "Really, I do not know. A little time ago we were
poor enough; then suddenly, money seemed to come in from all sides. I asked no questions; they
would not have been answered if I had. At least, not truthfully. And now you really must go.
When shall I see you again? Ah, I cannot tell you. For the present you must go on trusting
me as implicitly as you have done in the past. Oh, if you only knew how it wrings my heart
to have to speak to you like this, when all the time my whole love is for you and you alone.
Gerald--ah, go now; go at once. Don't you see that he is coming up the stairs?"

Venner turned away, and slipped down a side corridor, till Fenwick had entered his own room.
Then he walked down the stairs again into the dining-room, where a heated discussion was still
going on as to the identity of the missing waiter.

"They'll never find him," Gurdon muttered, "for the simple reason that the fellow was imported
for the occasion, and, in my opinion, was no waiter at all. You will notice also that our crippled
friend has vanished. I would give a great deal to know what was in the box that pretty nearly
scared the yellow man to death. I never saw a fellow so frightened in my life. He had to fortify
himself with two brandies before he could get up to his own room. Gerald, I really must find
out what was in that box!"

"I think I could tell you," Venner said, with a smile. "Didn't you tell me that the mysterious
waiter fetched it from the table where it had been placed by the handsome cripple?"

"Certainly, he did. I saw the signal pass directly Fenwick asked for a wooden match; that funny
little waiter was palpably waiting for the silver box, and as soon as he placed it on Fenwick's
table, he discreetly vanished. But, as I said before, I would give considerable to know what
was in that box."

"Well, go and see," Venner said grimly. "Unless my eyes deceive me, the box is still lying
on Fenwick's table. In his fright, he forgot all about it, and there isn't a waiter among the
whole lot, from the chief downwards, who has a really clear impression of what the offence
was. If you take my advice, you will go and have a peep into that box when you get the chance.
Don't tell me what you find, because I will guess that."

Gurdon crossed over to the other table, and took the box up in his hand. He pulled the slide
out and glanced at the contents with a puzzled expression of face. Then he dropped the box
again, and came back to Venner with a look on his face as if he had been handling something
more than usually repulsive.

"You needn't tell me what it is," Venner said. "I know quite as well as you do. Inside that
box is a dried up piece of flesh, some three inches long--in other words a mummified human
forefinger."

CHAPTER III

THE LOST MINE

Gurdon nodded thoughtfully. He was trying to piece the puzzle together in his mind, but so
far without success. He was not in the least surprised to find that Venner had guessed correctly.

"You've got it exactly," he said. "That is just what the gruesome thing is. What does it all mean?"

By this time dinner had long been a thing of the past, and all the guests had departed. Here
and there the lights were turned down, leaving half the room in semi-darkness. It was just
the time and place for an exchange of confidences.

"How did you know exactly what was in that box?" Gurdon asked. "I have read things of this
kind before, but they have generally taken the form of a warning previous to some act of vengeance."

"As a matter of fact, this is something of the same kind," Venner said; "though I am bound
to say that my guess was somewhat in the nature of a shot. Still, putting two and two together,
I felt that I could not have been far wrong. Since I have been here this evening, I have begun
to form a pretty shrewd opinion as to where Fenwick gets his money."

"What shall we do with that box?" Gurdon asked.

"Leave it where it is, by all means. You may depend upon it that Fenwick will return for his
lost property."

The prophecy came true quicker than Gurdon had expected, for out of the gloom there presently
emerged the yellow face of Mark Fenwick. He came in with a furtive air, like some mean thief
who is about to do a shabby action. He was palpably looking for something. He made a gesture
of disappointment when he saw that the table where he had dined was now stripped of everything
except the flowers. He did not seem to see the other two men there at all. Venner took the
box from his companion's hand, and advanced to Fenwick's side.

"I think you have lost something, sir," he said coolly. "Permit me to restore your property
to you."

The millionaire gave a kind of howl as he looked at Venner. The noise he made was like that
of a child suffering from toothache. He fairly grovelled at Venner's feet, but as far as the
latter's expression was concerned, the two might have met for the first time. Just for a moment
Fenwick stood there, mopping his yellow face, himself a picture of abject misery and despair.

"Well?" Venner said sharply. "Is this little box yours, or not?"

"Oh, yes, oh yes," Fenwick whined. "You know that perfectly well--I mean, you must recognise--oh,
I don't know what I mean. The fact is, I am really ill to-night. I hardly know what I am doing.
Thank you, very much."

Fenwick snatched the box from Venner's fingers, and made hastily for the door.

"I believe we are allowed to smoke in here after ten," Gurdon said. "If that is the case, why
not have a cigar together, and discuss the matter? What I am anxious to know at present is
the inner meaning of the finger in the box."

There was no objection to a cigar in the dining-room at this late hour, and presently the two
friends were discussing their Havanas together. Venner began to speak at length.

"Perhaps it would be as well," he said, "to stick to the box business first. You will remember,
some three years ago, my writing you to the effect that I was going to undertake a journey
through Mexico. I don't suppose I should have gone there at all, only I was attracted by the
notion of possible adventures in that country, among the hills where, at one time, gold was
found. There was no question whatever that gold in large quantities used to be mined in the
wild district where I had chosen to take up my headquarters. Practical engineers say that the
gold is exhausted, but that did not deter me in the least.

"The first man who put the idea into my head was a half-caste Mexican, who had an extraordinary
grip on the history of his country, especially as far as legends and traditions were concerned.
He was a well-educated man, and an exceedingly fascinating story-teller. It was he who first
gave me the history of what he called the Four Finger Mine. It appears that this mine had been
discovered some century or more ago by a Frenchman, who had settled down in the country and
married the daughter of a native chief. The original founder of the mine was a curious sort
of man, and was evidently possessed of strong miserly tendencies. Most men in his position
would have gathered together a band of workers, and simply exploited the mine for all it was
worth. However, this man, Le Fenu, did nothing of the kind. He kept his discovery an absolute
secret, and what mining was to be done, he did himself. I understand that he was a man of fine
physique, and that his disposition was absolutely fearless. It was his habit at certain seasons
of the year to go up to his mine, and there work it for a month or two at a time, spending
the rest of the year with his family. It is quite certain, too, that he kept his secret, even
from his grown-up sons; for when he died, they had not the slightest idea of the locality of
the mine, which fact I know from Le Fenu's descendants.

"And now comes the interesting part of my story, Le Fenu went up into the mountains early in
May one year, to put in his solitary two months' mining, as usual. For, perhaps, the first
time in his life, he suffered from a serious illness--some kind of fever, I suppose, though
he had just strength of will enough to get on the back of a horse and ride as far as the nearest
hacienda.

"Now, on this particular farm there dwelt a Dutchman, who, I believe, was called Van Fort.
Whether or not Le Fenu partially disclosed his secret in his delirium, will never actually
be known. At any rate, two or three weeks later the body of Le Fenu was discovered not very
far away from the scene of his mining operations, and from the evidence obtainable, there was
no doubt in the world that he was foully murdered. Justice in that country walks with very
tardy footsteps, and though there was little question who the real murderer was, Van Fort was
never brought to justice. Perhaps that was accounted for by the fact that he seemed to be suddenly
possessed of more money than usual, and was thus in a position to bribe the authorities.

"And now comes a further development. Soon after the death of Le Fenu, it was noted that Van
Fort spent most of his time away from his farm in the mountains, no doubt prospecting for Le
Fenu's mine. Whether he ever found it or not will never be known. Please to bear in mind the
fact that for a couple of centuries at least Le Fenu's mysterious property was known as the
Four Finger Mine. With this digression, I will go on to speak further of Van Fort's movements.
To make a long story short, from his last journey to the mountains he never returned. His widow
searched for him everywhere; I have seen her--a big sullen woman, with a cruel mouth and a
heavy eye. From what I have heard, I have not the slightest doubt that it was she who inspired
the murder of the Frenchman.

"She had practically given up all hope of ever seeing her husband again, when, one dark and
stormy night, just as she was preparing for bed, she heard her husband outside, screaming for
assistance. From his tone, he was evidently in some dire and deadly peril. The woman was by
no means devoid of courage; she rushed out into the night and searched far and near, but no
trace of Van Fort could be found, nor did the imploring cry for assistance come again. But
the next morning, on the doorstep lay a bleeding forefinger, which the woman recognised as
coming from her husband's hand. To make identity absolutely certain, on the forefinger was
a ring of native gold, which the Dutchman always wore. Please to remember once more that this
mine was known as the Four Finger Mine."

Venner paused just for a moment to give dramatic effect to his point. Gurdon said nothing;
he was too deeply interested in the narrative to make any comment.

"That was what I may call the first act in the drama," Venner went on. "Six months had elapsed,
and Van Fort's widow was beginning to forget all about the startling incident, when, one night,
just at the same time, and in just the same circumstances, came that wild, pitiful yell for
assistance outside the Dutchman's farm. Half mad with dread and terror the woman sat there
listening. She did not dare to go outside now; she knew how futile such an act would be. Also,
she knew quite well what was going to happen in the morning. She sat up half the night in a
state bordering on madness. I need not insult your intelligence, my dear fellow, by asking
you to guess what she found on the doorstep in the daylight."

"Of course, I can guess," Gurdon said. "Beyond all question, it was the third finger of the
Dutchman's hand."

"Quite so," Venner resumed. "I need not over elaborate my story or bore you by telling how,
six months later, the second finger of the hand appeared in the same sensational circumstances,
and how, at the end of a year, the four fingers were complete. Let me once more impress upon
you the fact that this mine was called the Four Finger Mine for more than a century before
these strange things happened."

"It is certainly an extraordinary thing," Gurdon muttered. "I don't think I ever listened to
a weirder tale. And did the Dutch woman confess to her crime? This strikes me as being a fitting
end to the story. I suppose it came from her lips."

"She didn't confess, for the simple reason that she had no mind to confess with," Venner explained.
"Of course, certain neighbors knew something of what was going on, but they never knew the
whole truth, because, after the appearance of the last finger, Mrs. Van Fort went stark raving
mad. She lived for a few days, and at the end of that time her body was found in a waterfall
close to her house. That is the story of the Four Finger Mine so far as it goes, though I should
not be surprised if we manage to get to the last chapter yet. Now, you are an observant man--did
you notice anything peculiar in Fenwick's appearance to-night?"

Gurdon shook his head slowly. It was quite evident that he had not noticed anything out of
the common in the appearance of the millionaire. Venner proceeded to explain.

"Let me tell you this," he said. "When I married my wife, we were within an easy ride of the
locality where the Four Finger Mine is situated. Mind you, our marriage was a secret one, and
I presume that Fenwick is still in ignorance of it, though, of course, he was fully aware of
the fact that I had more than a passing admiration for Vera. I merely mention this by way of
accentuating the little point that I am going to make. It is more than probable that, when
I stumbled upon Fenwick and the girl who passes for his daughter, he also was in search of
the Four Finger Mine. When he came in to-night he, of course, recognised me, though I treated
him as an absolute stranger whom I had met for the first time. You will see presently why I
treated him in this fashion. I am glad I spoke to him, because I noticed a slight thing that
throws a flood of light upon the mystery. Now, did it escape your observation, or did you notice
that Fenwick took the box I gave him in his right hand?"

"Oh, dear, no," Gurdon said. "A little thing like that would be almost too trivial for the
typical detective of the cheap story."

"All the same, it is very important," Venner said. "He took the box in his right hand; he made
as if to extend his left, then suddenly changed his mind, and put it in his pocket. But he
was too late to disguise from me that he had--"

"I know," Gurdon shouted. "He had lost all the fingers on his left hand. What an amazing thing!
We must get to the bottom of this business at all costs."

"That is precisely what we are going to do," Venner said grimly. "I am glad you are so quick
in taking up the point. When I noted the loss of those fingers, I was absolutely staggered
for a moment. If he had been less agitated than he was, Fenwick would have guessed what I had
seen. I need not tell you that when I last saw Fenwick his left hand was as sound as yours
or mine. The inference of this is, that Fenwick has fallen under the ban of the same strange
vengeance that overtook Van Fort and his wife. There is not the slightest doubt that he discovered
the mine, and that he has not yet paid the penalty for his temerity."

"I presume the penalty is coming," Gurdon said. "What a creepy sort of idea it is, that terrible
vengeance reaching across a continent in such a sinister fashion. But don't forget that we
know something as to the way in which this thing is to be brought about. Don't forget the cripple
who sat at yonder table to-night."

"I am not likely to forget him," Venner observed. "All the more because he evidently knows
more about this matter than we do ourselves. When he came here to-night, he little dreamed
that there was one man in the room, at least, who had a fairly good knowledge of the Four Finger
Mystery. We shall have to look him out, and, if necessary, force him to speak. But it is a
delicate matter, and as far as I can see, one not unattended with danger."

Gurdon smoked in thoughtful silence for some little time, turning the strange thing over in
his mind. The more he dwelt upon it, the more wild and dramatic did it seem.

"There is one thing in our favor," he said, presently. "The mysterious cripple is evidently
a deadly enemy of Fenwick's. We shall doubtless find him ready to accept our offer, provided
that we put it in the right way."

"I am not so sure of that," Venner replied. "At any rate, we can make no move in that direction
without thinking the whole thing out carefully and thoroughly. Our crippled friend is evidently
a fanatic in his way, and he is not alone in his scheme. Do not forget that we have also the
little man who played the part of the waiter to deal with. I am sorry that I did not notice
him. A man who could carry off a thing like that with such splendid audacity is certainly a
force to be reckoned with."

Gurdon rose from his seat with a yawn, and intimated that it was time to go to bed. It was
long past twelve now and the hotel was gradually retiring to rest. The Grand Empire was not
the sort of house to cater to the frivolous type of guest, and usually within an hour of the
closing of the theatres the whole of the vast building was wrapped in silence.

"I think I will go now," Gurdon said. "Come and lunch with me to-morrow, and then you can tell
me something about your own romance. What sort of a night is it, waiter?"

"Very bad, sir," the waiter replied. "It's pouring in torrents. Shall I call you a cab, sir?"

CHAPTER IV

IN THE LIFT

Gurdon looked out from the shelter of the great portico to see the sheets of rain falling on
the pavement. Silence reigned supreme but for the steady plash of the raindrops as they rattled
on the pavements. To walk half a mile on such a night meant getting wet through; and Gurdon
somewhat ruefully regarded his thin slippers and his light dust overcoat. Half a dozen times
the night porter blew his whistle, but no sign of a cab could be seen.

"We shan't get one to-night," Venner said. "They are all engaged. There is only one thing for
it--you must take a room here, and stay till the morning. I've no doubt I can fit you up in
the way of pyjamas and the things necessary."

Gurdon fell in readily enough with the suggestion. Indeed, there was nothing else for it. He
took his number and key from the sleepy clerk in the office, and made his way upstairs to Venner's
bedroom.

"I'll just have one cigarette before I turn in," he said. "It seems as if Fate had ordained
that I am to keep in close touch with the leading characters of the mystery. By the way, we
never took the trouble to find out who the handsome cripple was."

"That is very easily done in the morning," Venner replied. "A striking personality like that
is not soon lost sight of. Besides, he has doubtless been here before, for, if you will recollect,
his attendants took him to the right table as if it had been ordered beforehand. And now, if
you don't mind, I'll turn in--not that I expect to sleep much after an exciting evening like
this. Good night, old fellow."

Gurdon went on to his own room, where he slowly undressed and sat thinking the whole thing
out on the edge of his bed. Perhaps he was suffering from the same suppressed excitement which
at that moment was keeping Venner awake, for he felt not the slightest disposition to turn
in. Usually he was a sound sleeper; but this night seemed likely to prove an exception to the rule.

An hour passed, and Gurdon was still sitting there, asking himself whether it would not be
better to go to bed and compel sleep to come to him. Impatiently he turned out his light and
laid his head resolutely on the pillow.

But it was all in vain--sleep was out of the question. The room was not altogether in darkness,
either; for the sleeping apartments on that landing had been arranged back to back with a large,
open ventilator between them. Through this ventilator came a stream of light; evidently the
occupant of the adjoining room had not yet retired. The light worried Gurdon; he asked himself
irritably why his neighbor should be permitted to annoy him in this way. A moment or two later
the sound of suppressed voices came through the ventilator, followed by the noise of a heavy fall.

At any ordinary time Gurdon would have thought nothing of this, but his imagination was aflame
now, and his mind was full of hidden mysteries. It seemed to him that something sinister and
underhand was going on in the next room.

Usually, no one would identify the Grand Empire Hotel with crime and intrigue; but that did
not deter Gurdon from rising from his bed and making a determined effort to see through the
ventilator into the adjoining room. It was not an easy matter, but by dint of balancing two
chairs one on top of the other the thing was accomplished. Very cautiously Gurdon pushed back
the glass slide and looked through. So far as he could see, there was nothing to justify any
suspicion. The room was absolutely empty, though it was brilliantly lighted; and for a moment
Gurdon felt ashamed of his suspicions, and turned away, half determined to try and sleep. It
was at that instant that he noticed something out of the common. To his quickened ear there
came a sound unmistakably like a snore, and pushing his body half through the ventilator he
managed to make out the bed in the next room. On it lay the body of a boy in uniform, unmistakably
a messenger boy or hotel attendant of that kind. Gurdon could see the hotel name embroidered
in gold letters on his collar.

Perhaps there was nothing so very suspicious in this, except that the boy was lying on the
bed fully dressed, even to his boots. It was a luxurious room; not at all the class of apartment
to which the hotel management would relegate one of their messenger boys, nor was it possible
that the lad had had the temerity to go into the vacant room and sleep.

"Something wrong here," Gurdon muttered. "Hang me if I don't get through the ventilator and
see what it is."

It was no difficult matter for an athlete like Gurdon to push his way through and drop on to
the bed on the other side. Then he shook the form of the slumbering lad without reward. The
boy seemed to be plunged in a sleep almost like death. As Gurdon turned him over, he noticed
on the other side of the lad's collar the single word "Lift." It began to dawn upon Gurdon
exactly what had happened. In large hotels like the Grand Empire there is no fixed period when
the lift is suspended, and consequently, it has its attendants night and day. For some reason,
this boy had evidently been drugged and carried into the room where he now lay. There was no
doubt whatever about it, for it was impossible to shake the lad into the slightest semblance
of life. Gurdon crossed to the door, and found, not to his surprise, that it was locked. His
first impulse was to return to his room and call the night porter; but a strange, wild idea
had come into his mind, and he refrained from doing so. It occurred to him that perhaps Mark
Fenwick or the cripple had had a hand in this outrage.

"I'll wait a bit," Gurdon told himself. "It is just possible that my key will fit this door.
Anyway, it is worth trying."

Gurdon made his way back to his own room again, to return a minute or two later with his key.
To his great delight the door opened, and he stood in a further corridor, close against the
cage in which the lift worked noiselessly up and down.

It was absolutely quiet, so that anybody standing there would have been able to carry out any
operation of an unlawful kind without observation. Gurdon stood, looking down the lift shaft,
until he saw that the cage was once more beginning to ascend. It came up slowly and smoothly
and without the least noise, until it was level with the floor on which Gurdon was standing.
It was one of the open kind, so he could see inside quite clearly. To all practical purposes,
the lift was empty, save for the presence of one man, who lay unconscious on the floor. The
cage was ascending so leisurely that Gurdon was in a position to make a close examination of
the figure before the whole structure had risen to the next floor. It did not need a second
glance to tell Gurdon that the man in the cage was the attendant, and that he was suffering
from the same drug which had placed his boy assistant beyond all power of interfering.

"Now what does all this mean?" Gurdon muttered. "Who is there on the floor above who is interested
in getting these two people out of the way? What do they want to bring up or send down which
it is not safe to dispose of by the ordinary means? I think I'll wait and see. No sleep for
me to-night."

The lift vanished in the same silent way. It hung overhead for some little time, and once more
appeared in sight, this time absolutely empty, save for a small square box with iron bands
at the corners, which lay upon the floor. As the cage descended, Gurdon suddenly made up his
mind what to do. He sprang lightly on to the top of the falling cage, and grasped the rope
with both hands. A moment later and he was descending in the darkness.

As far as he could judge, the lift went down to the basement, where, for the time being, it
remained. There was a warm damp smell in the air, suggestive of fungus, whereby Gurdon judged
that he must be in the vaults beneath the hotel. As his eyes became accustomed to the gloom,
he could make out just in front of him a circular patch of light, which evidently was a coal shoot.

He had no need to wait now for the full development of the adventure. He could hear whispered
voices and the clang of metal, as if somebody had opened the door of the lift. One of the voices
he failed to understand, but with a thrill he recognised the fact that the speaker was talking
in either Spanish or Portuguese. Instantly it flashed into his mind that this was the language
most familiar to the man who called himself Mark Fenwick. Beyond doubt he was quite right when
he identified this last development with the actors in the dramatic events earlier in the evening.

"Now don't be long about it," a hoarse voice whispered. "There are two more cases to send up,
and two more to come down here. Has that van come along, or shall we have to wait until morning?"

"The van is there right enough," another hoarse voice said. "We have the stuff out on the pavement.
Let's have the last lot here, and get it up at once."

Gurdon could hear the sound of labored breathing as if the unseen man was struggling with some
heavy burden. Presently some square object was deposited on the floor of the lift. It seemed
to slip from someone's hands, and dropped with a heavy thud that caused the lift to vibrate
like a thing of life."

"Clumsy fool," a voice muttered. "You might have dropped that on my foot. What did you want
to let go for?"

"I couldn't help it," another voice grumbled. "I didn't know it was half so heavy. Besides,
the rope broke."

"Oh, are you going to be there all night?"--another voice, with a suggestion of a foreign accent
in it, asked impatiently. "Don't forget you have to bring the man down yet, and see that the
boy is taken to his place. Now, up with it."

Standing there, holding on to the rope and quivering with excitement, Gurdon wondered what
was going to happen next. Once more he felt himself rising, and an instant later he was in
the light again. He waited till the lift had reached his own floor; then he jumped quickly
down, taking care as he went to note the heavy box which lay on the floor of the lift. A corner
of it had been split open by the heavy jar, and some shining material like sand lay in a little
heap, glittering in the rays of the electric light.

Gurdon stood there panting for a moment, and rather at a loss to know what to do next. Once
more the lift came down, this time with two boxes of a smaller size. They vanished; and as
the lift rose once again, Gurdon had barely time to hide himself behind the bedroom door, and
thus escape the observation of two men who now occupied the cage. He just caught a fleeting
glimpse of them, and saw that one was an absolute stranger, but he felt his heart beating slightly
faster as he recognised in the other the now familiar form of Mark Fenwick. The mystery was
beginning to unfold itself.

"That was a close thing," Gurdon muttered, as he wiped his hot face. "I think I had better
go back to my own room, and wait developments. One can't be too careful."

The lift-boy was still sleeping on the bed; but his features were twitching, as if already
the drug was beginning to lose its effect. At least, so Gurdon shrewdly thought, and subsequent
events proved that he was not far wrong. He was standing in his own room now, waiting by the
ventilator, when he heard the sound of footsteps on the other side of the wall. Two men had
entered the room, and by taking a little risk, Gurdon could see that they were examining the
unconscious boy coolly and critically.

"I should think about five minutes more would do it," one of them said. "Better carry him out,
and shove him in that little sentry box of his. When he comes to himself again he won't know
but what he has fallen asleep; barring a headache, the little beggar won't be any the worse
for the adventure."

"Have we got all the stuff up now?" the other man asked.

"Every bit of it," was the whispered reply. "I hope the old man is satisfied now. It was not
a bad idea of his to work this little game in a great hotel of this kind. But, all the same,
it is not without risks, and I for one should be glad to get away to that place in the country
where we are going in a week or two."

Gurdon heard no more. He allowed the best part of half-an-hour to pass before he ventured once
more to creep through the ventilator and reach the landing in the neighborhood of the lift.
Everything looked quite normal now, and as if nothing had happened. The lift boy sat in his
little hut, yawning and stretching himself. It was quite evident that he knew nothing of the
vile uses he had been put to. A sudden idea occurred to Gurdon.

"I want you to bring the lift up to this floor," he said to the boy. "No, I don't want to use
it; I have lost something, and it occurs to me that I might have left it in the lift."

In the usual unconcerned manner of his class the boy touched an electric button, and the lift
slowly rose from the basement.

"Does this go right down to the cellars?" Gurdon asked.

"It can if it's wanted to," the boy replied. "Only it very seldom does. You see, we only use
this lift for our customers. It's fitted with what they call a pneumatic cushion--I mean, if
anything goes wrong, the lift falls into a funnel shaped well, made of concrete, which forms
a cushion of air, and so breaks the fall. They say you could cut the rope and let it down without
so much as upsetting a glass of water. Not that I should like to try it, sir, but there you are."

Gurdon entered the lift, where he pretended to be searching for something for a moment or two.
In reality, he was scraping up some of the yellow sand which had fallen from the box to the
floor of the lift, and this he proceeded to place in a scrap of paper. Then he decided that
it was absolutely necessary to retire to bed, though he was still in full possession of his
waking faculties. As a matter of fact, he was asleep almost as soon as his head touched the
pillow. Nevertheless, he was up early the following morning, and in Venner's bedroom long before
breakfast. He had an exciting story to tell, and he could not complain that in Venner he had
anything but an interested listener.

"We are getting on," the latter said grimly. "But before you say anything more, I should like
to have a look at that yellow sand you speak of. Bring it over near the light."

Venner let the yellow stuff trickle through his hands; then he turned to Gurdon with a smile.

"You look upon this as refuse, I suppose?" he said. "You seem to imagine that it is of no great
value."

"Well, is it?" Gurdon asked. "What is it?"

"Gold," Venner said curtly. "Pure virgin gold, of the very finest quality. I never saw a better
sample."

CHAPTER V

A PUZZLE FOR VENNER

Venner sat just for a moment or two with the thin stream trickling through his fingers, and
wondering what it all meant. With his superior knowledge of past events, he could see in this
something that it was impossible for Gurdon to follow.

"I suppose this is some of the gold from the Four Finger Mine?" Gurdon suggested. "Do you know,
I have never handled any virgin gold before. I had an idea that it was more brilliant and glittering.
Is this very good stuff?"

"Absolutely pure, I should say," Venner replied. "There are two ways of gold mining. One is
by crushing quartz in machinery, as they do in South Africa, and the other is by obtaining
the metal in what are called pockets or placers. This is the way in which it is generally found
in Australia and Mexico. I should not be in the least surprised if this came from the Four
Finger Mine."

"There is no reason why it shouldn't," Gurdon said. "It is pretty evident, from what you told
me last night, that Mark Fenwick has discovered the mysterious treasure house, but that does
not account for all these proceedings. Why should he have taken all the trouble he did last
night, when he might just as well have brought the stuff in, and taken the other boxes out
by the front door?"

"That is what we have to find out," Venner said. "That fellow may call himself a millionaire,
but I believe he is nothing more nor less than a desperate adventurer."

Gurdon nodded his assent. There must have been something very urgent to compel Mark Fenwick
to adopt such methods. Why was he so strangely anxious to conceal the knowledge that he was
receiving boxes of pure gold in the hotel, and that he was sending out something of equal value?
However carefully the thing might have been planned the drugging of lift attendants must have
been attended with considerable risk. And the slightest accident would have brought about a
revelation. As it was, everything seemed to have passed off smoothly, except for the chance
by which Gurdon had stumbled on the mystery.

"We can't leave the thing here," the latter said. "For once in my life I am going to turn amateur
detective. I have made up my mind to get into Fenwick's suite of rooms and see what is going
on there. Of course, the thing will take time, and will have to be carefully planned. Do you
think it is possible for us to make use of your wife in this matter?"

"I don't think so," Venner said thoughtfully.

"In the first place, I don't much like the idea; and in the second, I am entirely at a loss
to know what mysterious hold Mark Fenwick has on Vera. As I told you last night, she left me
within a very short time of our marriage, and until a few hours ago I had never looked upon
her again. Something terrible must have happened, or she would never have deserted me in the
way she did. I don't for a moment believe that Mark Fenwick knew anything about our marriage,
but on that point I cannot be absolutely certain. You had better come back to me later in the
day, and I will see what I can do. It is just possible that good fortune may be on my side."

The afternoon was dragging on, and still Venner was no nearer to a practical scheme which would
enable him to make an examination of Fenwick's rooms without the chance of discovery. He was
lounging in the hall, smoking innumerable cigarettes, when Fenwick himself came down the stairs.
Obviously the man was going on a journey, for he was closely muffled up in a big fur coat,
and behind him came a servant, carrying two bags and a railway rug. It was a little gloomy
in the lobby, so Venner was enabled to watch what was going on without being seen himself.
He did not fail to note a certain strained anxiety that rested on Fenwick's face. The man looked
behind him once or twice, as if half afraid of being followed. Venner had seen that same furtive
air in men who are wanted by the police. Fenwick stopped at the office and handed a couple
of keys to the clerk. His instructions were quite audible to Venner.

"I shan't want those for a day or two," he said. "You will see that no one has them under any
pretext. Probably, I shall be back by Saturday at the latest."

Venner did not scruple to follow Fenwick's disappearing figure as far as the street. He was
anxious to obtain a clue to Fenwick's destination. Straining his ears, he just managed to catch
the words "Charing Cross," and then returned to the hall, by no means dissatisfied. Obviously,
Fenwick was intending to cross the Channel for a day or two, and he had said to the clerk that
he would not be back before Saturday.

Here was something like a chance at last. Very slowly and thoughtfully, Venner went up the
stairs in the direction of his own room. He had ascertained by this time that one part of Fenwick's
suite was immediately over his own bedroom. His idea now was to walk up to the next floor,
and make a close examination of the rooms there. It did not take him long to discover the fact
that Fenwick's suite was self contained, like a flat. That is to say, a strong outer door once
locked made communication with the suite of rooms impossible. Venner was still pondering over
his problem when the master door opened, and Vera came out so hurriedly as almost to fall into
Venner's arms. She turned pale as she saw him; and as she closed the big door hurriedly behind
her, Venner could see that she had in her hand the tiny Yale key which gave entrance to the
suite of rooms. The girl looked distressed and embarrassed, but not much more so than Venner,
who was feeling not a little guilty.

But all this was lost upon Vera; her own agitation and her own unhappiness seemed to have blinded
her to everything else.

"What are you doing here?" she stammered.

"Perhaps I am looking for you," Venner said. He had quite recovered himself by this time. "I
was in the lobby just now, when I saw that scoundrel, Fenwick, go out. He is not coming back
for a day or two, I understand."

"No," Vera said with accents of evident relief. "He is gone, but I don't know where he is gone.
He never tells me."

Just for a moment Venner looked somewhat sternly at his companion. Here was an opportunity
for an explanation too good to be lost.

"There is a little alcove at the end of the corridor," he said. "I see it is full of ferns
and flowers. In fact, the very place for a confidence. Vera, whether you like it or not, I
am going to have an explanation."

The girl shrank back, and every vestige of color faded from her face. Yet at the same time,
the pleading, imploring eyes which she turned upon her companion's face were filled with the
deepest affection. Badly as he had been treated, Venner could not doubt for a moment the sincerity
of the woman who had become his wife. But he did not fail to realise that few men would have
put up with conduct like this, however much in love they might have been. Therefore, the hand
that he laid on Vera's arm was strong and firm, and she made no resistance as he led her in
the direction of the little alcove.

"Now," he said. "Are you going to tell me why you left me so mysteriously on our wedding day?
You merely went to change your dress, and you never returned. Am I to understand that at the
very last moment you learned something that made it absolutely necessary for us to part? Do
you really mean that?"

"Indeed, I do, Gerald," the girl said. "There was a letter waiting for me in my bedroom. It
was a short letter, but long enough to wreck my happiness for all time."

"No, no," Venner cried; "not for all time. You asked me to trust you absolutely and implicitly,
and I have done so. I believe every word that you say, and I am prepared to wait patiently
enough till the good time comes. But I am not going to sit down quietly like this and see a
pure life like yours wrecked for the sake of such a scoundrel as Fenwick. Surely it is not
for his sake that you--"

"Oh, no," the girl cried. "My sacrifice is not for his sake at all, but for that of another
whose life is bound up with his in the strangest possible way. When you first met me, Gerald,
and asked me to be your wife, you did not display the faintest curiosity as to my past history.
Why was that?"

"Why should I?" Venner demanded. "I am my own master, I have more money than I know what to
do with and I have practically no relations to consider. You were all-sufficient for me; I
loved you for your own sake alone; I cared nothing, and I care nothing still for your past.
What I want to know is, how long this is going on?"

"That I cannot tell you," Vera said sadly. "You must go on trusting me, dear. You must--"

The speaker broke off suddenly, as someone in the corridor called her name. She slipped away
from Venner's side, and, looking through the palms and flowers, he could see that she was talking
eagerly to a woman who had the appearance of a lady's maid. Venner could not fail to note the
calm strength of the woman's face. It was only for a moment; then Vera came back with a telegram
in her hand.

"I must go at once," she said. "It is something of great importance. I don't know when I shall
see you again--"

"I do," Venner said grimly. "You are going to dine with me to-night. Come just for once; let
us imagine we are on our honeymoon. That blackguard Fenwick is away, and he will be none the
wiser. Now, I want you to promise me."

"I really can't," Vera protested. "If you only knew the danger--"

However, Venner's persistency got its own way. A moment later Vera was hurrying down the corridor.
It was not until she was out of sight that Venner found that she had gone away, leaving the
little Yale key behind her on the table. He thrilled at the sight of it. Here was the opportunity
for which he had been waiting.

Not more than ten minutes had elapsed when, thanks to the use of the telephone, Gurdon had
reached the Grand Empire Hotel. In a few hurried words, Venner gave him a brief outline of
what had happened. There was no time to lose.

"Of course, it is a risk," Venner said, "and I am not altogether sure that I am justified in
taking advantage of this little slip on the part of my wife. What do you think?"

"I think you are talking a lot of rot," Gurdon said emphatically. "You love the girl, you believe
implicitly in her, and you are desperately anxious to get her out of the hands of that blackguard,
Fenwick. From some morbid idea of self sacrifice, your wife continues to lead this life of
misery rather than betray what she would probably call a trust. It seems to me that you would
be more than foolish to hesitate longer."

"Come along, then," Venner said. "Let's see what we can do."

The key was in the lock at length, and the big door thrown open, disclosing a luxurious suite
of rooms beyond. So far as the explorers could see at present, they had the place entirely
to themselves. No doubt Fenwick's servants had taken advantage of his absence to make a holiday.
For the most part, the rooms presented nothing out of the common; they might have been inhabited
by anybody possessing large means. In one of the rooms stood a desk, carefully locked, and
by its side a fireproof safe.

"No chance of getting into either of those," Gurdon said. "Besides, the attempt would be too
risky. Don't you notice a peculiar noise going on? Sounds almost like machinery."

Surely enough, from a distant apartment there came a peculiar click and rumble, followed by
a whirr of wheels, as if someone was running out a small motor close by. At the same time,
the two friends noticed the unmistakable odor of petrol on the atmosphere.

"What the dickens can that be?" Gurdon said. "Its most assuredly in the flat, and not far off,
either."

"The only way to find out is to go and see," Venner replied. "I fancy this is the way."

They came at length to a small room at the end of a long corridor. It was evidently from this
room that the sound of machinery came, for the nearer they came the louder it grew. The door
was slightly ajar, and looking in, the friends could see two men, evidently engaged on some
mechanical task. There was a fire of charcoal in the grate, and attached to it a pair of small
but powerful bellows, driven by a small motor. In the heart of the fire was a metal crucible,
so white and dazzling hot that it was almost impossible for the eye to look upon it. Venner
did not fail to notice that the men engaged in this mysterious occupation were masked; at least,
they wore exceedingly large smoked spectacles, which came to much the same thing. Behind them
stood another man, who had every appearance of being a master workman. He had a short pipe
in his mouth, a pair of slippers on his feet, and his somewhat expansive body was swathed in
a frock coat. Presently he made a sign, and with the aid of a long pair of tongs, the white
hot crucible was lifted from the fire. It was impossible for the two men outside to see what
became of it, but evidently the foreman was satisfied with the experiment, for he gave a grunt
of approval.

"I think that will do," he muttered. "The impression is excellent. Now, you fellows can take
a rest whilst I go off and finish the other lot of stuff."

"He's coming out," Venner whispered. "Let us make a bolt for it. It won't do to be caught here."

They darted down the corridor together, and stood in an angle of a doorway, a little undecided
as to what to do next. The man in the frock coat passed them, carrying under one arm a square
case, that bore some resemblance to the slide in which photographers slip their negatives after
taking a photograph. The man in the frock coat placed his burden on a chair, and then, apparently,
hurried back for something he had forgotten.

"Here is our chance," Gurdon whispered. "Let's see what is in that case. There may be an important
clue here."

The thing was done rapidly and neatly. Inside the case, between layers of cotton wool, lay
a great number of gold coins, obviously sovereigns. They appeared to be in a fine state of
preservation, for they glistened in the light like new gold.

"Put one in your pocket," whispered Venner.

"I'm afraid we are going to have our journey for our pains; but still, you can't tell. Better
take two while you are about it."

Gurdon slipped the coins into his pocket, then turned away in the direction of the door as
the man in the frock coat came back, thoughtfully whistling, as if to give the intruders a
chance of escape. Before he appeared in sight the outer door closed softly, and Venner and
Gurdon were in the corridor once more.

CHAPTER VI

A PARTIAL FAILURE

"Do you notice anything peculiar about these coins?" Venner said, when once more they were
back in the comparative seclusion of the smoking-room. "Have a good look at them."

Gurdon complied; he turned the coins over in his hand and weighed them on his fingers. So far
as he could see they were good, honest, British coins, each well worth the twenty shillings
which they were supposed to represent.

"I don't see anything peculiar about them at all," he said. "So far as I can judge, they appear
to be genuine enough. At first I began to think that our friend Fenwick had turned coiner.
Look at this."

As he spoke Gurdon dashed the coin down upon a marble table. It rang true and clear.

"I'd give a pound for it," he said. "The weight in itself is a good test. No coiner yet has
ever discovered a metal that will weigh like gold and ring as true. The only strange thing
about the coin is that it is in such a wonderful state of preservation. It might have come
out of the Mint yesterday. I am afraid we shall have to abandon the idea of laying Fenwick
by the heels on the charge of making counterfeit money. I'll swear this is genuine."

"I am of the same opinion, too," Venner said. "I have handled too much gold in my time to be
easily deceived. Still, there is something wrong here, and I'll tell you why. Look at those
two coins again, and tell me the dates on them."

"That is very easily done. One is dated 1901 and the other is dated 1899. I don't see that
you gain anything by pointing out that fact to me. I don't see what you are driving at."

"Well the thing is pretty clear. It would be less clear if those coins had been worn by use
and circulation. But they are both of them Mint perfect, and they are of different dates. Do
you suppose that our friend Fenwick makes a hobby of collecting English sovereigns? Besides,
the man in the frock coat was going to do something with these coins; and, of course, you noticed
how carefully they were wrapped up in cotton wool."

"I should like to make assurance doubly sure," Gurdon said. "Let's take these two coins to
some silversmith's shop and ask if they are all right."

It was no far journey to the nearest silversmiths, where the coins were cut up, tested, and
weighed. The assistant smiled as he handed the pieces back to Venner.

"We will give you eighteen and sixpence each for them, sir," he said, "which is about the intrinsic
value of a sovereign; and, as you are probably aware, sir, English gold coinage contains a
certain amount of alloy, without which it would speedily deteriorate in circulation, just as
the old guinea used to; but there is no doubt that I have just lost you three shillings by
cutting up those coins."

Venner smiled as he left the shop. As a matter of fact, he was a little more puzzled now than
he had been before. He had expected to find something wrong with the two coins.

"We must suspend judgment for the present," he said. "Still, I feel absolutely certain that
there is some trick here, though what the scheme is I am utterly at a loss to know. Will you
come in this evening after dinner and take your coffee and cigar with me? My wife is dining
with me, but it was an express stipulation that she should go directly dinner is over."

At a little after seven Venner was impatiently waiting the coming of Vera. He was not altogether
sorry to notice that the dining-room was filling up more rapidly than it had done for some
days past. Perhaps, on the whole, there would be safety in numbers. Venner had secured a little
table for two on the far side of the room, and he stood in the doorway now, waiting somewhat
restlessly and impatiently for Vera to appear. He was not a little anxious and nervous in case
something should happen at the last moment to prevent his wife's appearance. As a rule, Venner
was not a man who was troubled much with nerves, though he became conscious of the fact that
he possessed them to-night.

Was ever a man so strangely placed as himself, he wondered? He marvelled, too, that he could
sit down so patiently without asserting his rights. He was the possessor of ample means, and
if money stood in the way he was quite prepared to pay Fenwick his price.

On these somewhat painful meditations Vera intruded. She was simply dressed in white, and had
no ornaments beyond a few flowers. Her face was flushed now, and there was in her eyes a look
of something that approached happiness.

"I am so glad you have come, dear," Venner said, as he pressed the girl's hand. "I was terribly
afraid that something might come in the way. If there is any danger--"

"I don't think there is any danger," Vera whispered, "though there are other eyes on me besides
those of Mark Fenwick. But, all the same, I am not supposed to know anybody in the hotel, and
I come down to dinner as a matter of course, I am glad the place is so crowded, Gerald, it
will make us less conspicuous. But it is just possible that I may have to go before dinner
is over. If that is so, I hope you will not be annoyed with me."

"You have given me cause for greater annoyance than that," Venner smiled. "And I have borne
it all uncomplainingly. And now let us forget the unhappy past, and try and live for the present.
We are on our honeymoon, you understand. I wonder what people in this room would say if they
heard our amazing story."

"I have no doubt there are other stories just as sad here," Vera said, as she took her place
at the table. "But I am not going to allow myself to be miserable to-night. We are going to
forget everything; we are going to believe that this is Fairyland, and that you are the Prince
who--"

Despite her assumed gaiety there was just a little catch in Vera's voice. If Venner noticed
it he did not appear to do so. For the next hour or so he meant resolutely to put the past
out of his mind, and give himself over to the ecstasy of the moment.... All too soon the dinner
came to an end, and Gurdon appeared.

"This is my wife," Venner said simply. "Dear, Mr. Gurdon is a very old friend of mine, and
I have practically no secrets from him. All the same, he did not know till last night that
I was married--until you came into the room and my feelings got the better of me. But we can
trust Gurdon."

"I think I am to be relied upon," Gurdon said with a smile. "You will pardon me if I say that
I never heard a stranger story than yours; and if at any time I can be of assistance to you,
I shall be sincerely happy to do all that is in my power."

"You are very good," Vera said gratefully. "Who knows how soon I may call upon you to fulfil
your promise? But I am afraid that it will not be quite yet."

They sat chatting there for some half an hour longer, when a waiter came in, and advancing
to their table proffered Vera a visiting card, on the back of which a few words had been scribbled.
The girl looked a little anxious and distressed as her eyes ran over the writing on the card.
Then she rose hurriedly.

"I am afraid I shall have to go," she said. "I have been anticipating this for some little time."

She turned to the waiter, and asked if her maid was outside, to which the man responded that
it was the maid who had brought the card, and that she was waiting with her wraps in the corridor.
Vera extended her hand to Gurdon as she rose to go.

"I am exceedingly sorry," she said. "This has been a pleasant evening for me: perhaps the most
pleasant evening with one exception that I ever spent in my life. Gerald will know what evening
I mean."

As she finished she smiled tenderly at Venner. He had no words in reply. Just at that moment
he was filled with passionate and rebellious anger. He dared not trust himself to speak, conscious
as he was that Vera's burden was already almost more than she could bear. She held out her
hand to him with an imploring little gesture, as if she understood exactly what was passing
in his mind.

"You will forgive me," she whispered. "I am sure you will forgive me. It is nothing but duty
which compels me to go. I would far rather stay here and be happy."

Venner took the extended hand and pressed it tenderly. His yearning eyes looked after the retreating
figure; then, suddenly, he turned to Gurdon, who affected to be busy over a cigar.

"I want you to do something for me," he said. "It is a strange fancy, but I should like you
to follow her. I suppose I am beginning to get old and nervous; at any rate, I am full of silly
fancies tonight. I am possessed with the idea that my unhappy little girl is thrusting herself
into some danger. You can quite see how impossible it is for me to dog her footsteps, but your
case is different. Of course, if you like to refuse--"

"I am not going to refuse," Gurdon said. "I can see nothing dishonorable. I'll go at once,
if you like."

Venner nodded curtly, and Gurdon rose from the table. He passed out into the street just as
the slim figure of Vera was descending the steps of the hotel. He had no difficulty in recognising
her outline, though she was clad from head to foot now in a long, black wrap, and her fair
hair was disguised under a hood of the same material. Rather to Gurdon's surprise, the girl
had not called a cab. She was walking down the street with a firm, determined step, as of one
who knew exactly where she was going, and meant to get there in as short a time as possible.

Gurdon followed cautiously at a distance. He was not altogether satisfied in his own mind that
his action was quite as straightforward as it might have been. Still, he had given his promise,
and he was not inclined to back out of it now. For about a quarter of an hour he followed,
until Vera at length halted before a house somewhere in the neighborhood of Grosvenor Square.
It was a fine, large corner mansion, but so far as Gurdon could see there was not a light in
the place from parapet to basement. He could see Vera going up the steps; he was close enough
to hear the sound of an electric bell; then a light blazed in the hall, and the door was opened.
So far as Gurdon could see, it was an old man who opened the door; an old man with a long,
grey beard, and a face lined and scored with the ravages of time. All this happened in an instant.
The door was closed again, and the whole house left in darkness.

Gurdon paused, a little uncertain as to what to do next. He would have liked, if possible,
to be a little closer to Vera, for if there were any dangers threatening her he would be just
as powerless to help now as if he had been in another part of the town. He walked slowly down
the side of the house, and noted that there was a line garden behind, and a small green door
leading to the lane. Acting on the impulse of the moment he tried the door, which yielded to
his touch. If he had been asked why he did this thing he would have found it exceedingly difficult
to reply. Still, the thing was done, and Gurdon walked forward over the wide expanse of lawn
till he could make out at length a row of windows, looking out from the back of the house.
It was not so very easy to discern all this, for the night was dark, and the back of the house
darker still. Presently a light flared out in one of the rooms, and then Gurdon could make
out the dome of a large conservatory leading from the garden to the house.

"I shall find myself in the hands of the police, if I don't take care," Gurdon said to himself.
"What an ass I am to embark on an adventure like this. It isn't as if I had the slightest chance
of being of any use to the girl, seeing that I--"

He broke off, suddenly conscious of the fact that another of the rooms was lighted now--a large
one, by the side of the conservatory. In the silence of the garden it seemed to him that he
could hear voices raised angrily, and then a cry, as if of pain, from somebody inside.

Fairly interested at last, Gurdon advanced till he was close to the window. He could hear no
more now, for the same tense silence had fallen over the place once more. Gurdon pressed close
to the window; he felt something yield beneath his feet, and the next moment he had plunged
headlong into the darkness of something that suggested an underground cellar. Perhaps he had
been standing unconsciously on a grating that was none too safe, for now he felt himself bruised
and half stunned, lying on his back on a cold, hard floor, amid a mass of broken glass and
rusty ironwork.

Startled and surprised as he was, the noise of the breaking glass sounded in Gurdon's ears
like the din of some earthquake. He struggled to his feet, hoping that the gods would be kind
to him, and that he could get away before his presence there was discovered. He was still dazed
and confused; his head ached painfully, and he groped in the pitch darkness without any prospect
of escape. He could nowhere find an avenue. So far as he could judge, he was absolutely caught
like a rat in a trap.

He half smiled to himself; he was still too dazed to grasp the significance of his position,
when a light suddenly appeared overhead, at the top of a flight of stairs, and a hoarse voice
demanded to know who was there. In the same dreamy kind of way, Gurdon was just conscious of
the fact that a strong pair of arms lifted him from the floor, and that he was being carried
up the steps. In the same dreamy fashion, he was cognisant of light and warmth, a luxurious
atmosphere, and rows upon rows of beautiful flowers everywhere. He would, no doubt, awake presently,
and find that the whole thing was a dream. Meanwhile, there was nothing visionary about the
glass of brandy which somebody had put to his lips, or about the hands which were brushing
him down and removing all traces of his recent adventure.

"When you feel quite up to it, sir," a quiet, respectful voice said, "my master would like
to see you. He is naturally curious enough to know what you were doing in the garden."

"I am afraid your master must have his own way," Gurdon said grimly. "I am feeling pretty well
now, thanks to the brandy. If you will take me to your master, I will try to explain matters."

The servant led the way into a large, handsome apartment, where a man in evening dress was
seated in a big armchair before the fire. He looked round with a peculiar smile as Gurdon came in.

"Well, sir," he said. "And what does this mean?"

Gurdon had no voice to reply, for the man in the armchair was the handsome cripple--the hero
of the forefinger.

CHAPTER VII

THE WHITE LADY

Gurdon looked hopelessly about him, utterly at a loss for anything to say. The whole thing
had been so unexpected, so very opposite to the commonplace ending he had anticipated, that
he was too dazed and confused to do anything but smile in an inane and foolish manner. He had
rather looked forward to seeing some eccentric individual, some elderly recluse who lived there
with a servant or two. And here he was, face to face with the man who, at the present moment,
was to him the most interesting in London.

"You can take your time," the cripple said. "I am anxious for you to believe that I am not
in the least hurry. The point of the problem is this: a well dressed man, evidently a gentleman,
is discovered at a late hour in the evening in my cellar. As the gentleman in question is obviously
sober, one naturally feels a little curiosity as to what it all means."

The speaker spoke quite slowly and clearly, and with a sarcastic emphasis that caused Gurdon
to writhe impotently. Every word and gesture on the part of the cripple spoke of a strong mind
and a clear intellect in that twisted body. Despite the playful acidity of his words, there
was a distinct threat underlying them. It occurred to Gurdon as he stood there that he would
much rather have this man for a friend than a foe.

"Perhaps you had better take a seat," the cripple said. "There is plenty of time, and I don't
mind confessing to you that this little comedy amuses me. Heaven knows, I have little enough
amusement in my dreary life; and, therefore, in a measure, you have earned my gratitude. But
there is another side to the picture. I have enemies who are utterly unscrupulous. I have to
be unscrupulous in my turn, so that when I have the opportunity of laying one of them by the
heels, my methods are apt to be thorough. Did you come here alone to-night, or have you an
accomplice?"

"Assuredly, I came alone," Gurdon replied.

"Oh, indeed. You found your way into the garden. To argue out the thing logically, we will
take it for granted that you had no intention whatever of paying a visit to my garden when
you left home. If such had been your intention, you would not be wearing evening dress, and
thin, patent leather shoes. Your visit to the garden was either a resolution taken on the spur
of the moment, or was determined upon after a certain discovery. I am glad to hear that you
came here entirely by yourself."

There was an unmistakable threat in these latter words; and as Gurdon looked up he saw that
the cripple was regarding him with an intense malignity. The grey eyes were cold and merciless,
the handsome face hard and set, and yet it was not a countenance which one usually associates
with the madman or the criminal. Really, it was a very noble face--the face of a philanthropist,
a poet, a great statesman, who devotes his money and his talents to the interests of his country.
Despite a feeling of danger, Gurdon could not help making a mental note of these things.

"Won't you sit down?" the cripple asked again. "I should like to have a little chat with you.
Here are whisky and soda, and some cigars, for the excellence of which I can vouch, as I import
them myself. Perhaps, also, you share with me a love of flowers?"

With a wave of his strong arm, the speaker indicated the wealth of blossoms which arose from
all sides of the room. There were flowers everywhere. The luxuriant blooms seemed to overpower
and dwarf the handsome furnishings of the room. At the far end, folding doors opened into the
conservatory, which was a veritable mass of brilliant colors. The cripple smiled upon his blossoms,
as a mother might smile on her child.

"These are the only friends who never deceive you," he said. "Flowers and dogs, and, perhaps,
little children. I know this, because I have suffered from contact with the world, as, perhaps,
you will notice when you regard this poor body of mine. I think you said just now you came
here entirely by yourself."

"That is a fact," Gurdon replied. He was beginning to feel a little more at his ease now. "Let
me hasten to assure you that I came here with no felonious intent at all. I was looking for
somebody, and I thought that my friend came here. You will pardon me if I do not explain with
any amount of detail, because the thing does not concern myself altogether. And, besides--"

Gurdon paused; he could not possibly tell this stranger of the startling events which had led
to his present awkward situation. In any case, he would not have been believed.

"We need not go into that," the cripple said. "It is all by the way. You came here alone; and,
I take it, when you left your home, you had not the slightest intention of coming here. To
make my meaning a little more clear, if you disappeared from this moment, and your friends
never saw you again, the police would not have the slightest clue to your whereabouts."

Gurdon laughed just a little uneasily; he began to entertain the idea that he was face to face
with some dangerous lunatic, some man whose dreadful troubles and misfortunes had turned him
against the world. Evidently, it would be the right policy to humor him.

"That is quite correct," he said. "Nobody has the least idea where I am; and if the unpleasant
contingency you allude to happened to me, I should go down to posterity as one of the victims
of the mysterious type of crime that startles London now and again."

"I should think," said the stranger, in a thin, dry tone, that caused Gurdon's pulses to beat
a little faster--"I should think that your prophecy is in a fair way to turn out correct. I
don't ask you why you came here, because you would not tell me if I did. But you must have
been spying on the place, or you would not have had the misfortune to tread on a damaged grating,
and finish your adventure ignominiously in the cellar. As I told you just now, I have enemies
who are absolutely unscrupulous, and who would give much for a chance of murdering me if the
thing could be done with impunity. Common sense prompts me to take it for granted that you
are in some wry connected with the foes to whom I have alluded."

"I assure you, I am not," Gurdon protested. "I am the enemy of no man. I came here to night--"

Gurdon stopped in some confusion. How could he possibly tell this man why he had come and what
he had in his mind? The thing was awkward--almost to the verge of absurdity.

"I quite see the quandary you are in," said the cripple, with a smile. "Now, let me ask you
a question. Do you happen to know a man by the name of Mark Fenwick?"

The query was so straight and to the point that Gurdon fairly started. More and more did he
begin to appreciate the subtlety and cleverness of his companion. It was impossible to fence
the interrogation; it had to be answered, one way or the other.

"I know the man by sight," he said; "but I beg to assure you that until last night I had never
seen him."

"That may be," the cripple said drily. "But you know him now, and that satisfies me. Now, listen.
You see what I have in my hand. Perhaps you are acquainted with weapons of this kind?"

So saying, the speaker wriggled in his chair, and produced from somewhere behind him a small
revolver. Despite its silver plated barrel and ivory handle, it was a sinister looking weapon,
and capable of deadly mischief in the hands of an expert. Though no judge of such matters,
it occurred to Gurdon that his companion handled the revolver as an expert should.

"I have been used to this kind of thing from a boy," the cripple said. "I could shoot you where
you sit within a hair's breadth of where I wanted to hit you."

"Which would be murder," Gurdon said quietly.

"Perhaps it would, in the eyes of the law; but there are times when one is tempted to defy
the mandates of a wise legislature. For instance, I have told you more than once before that
I have enemies, and everything points to the fact that you are the tool and accomplice of some
of them. I have about me one or two faithful people, who would do anything I ask. If I shoot
you now the report of a weapon like this will hardly be audible beyond the door. You lie there,
dead, shot clean through the brain. I ring my bell and tell my servants to clear this mess
away. I give them orders to go and bury it quietly somewhere, and they would obey me without
the slightest hesitation. Nothing more would be said. I should be as safe from molestation
as if the whole thing had happened on a desert island. I hope I have succeeded in making the
position clear, because I should be loth to think that a little incident like this should cause
inconvenience to one who might after all have been absolutely innocent."

The words were spoken quietly, and without the slightest trace of passion. Still, there was
no mistaking the malignity and intense fury which underlay the well chosen and well balanced
sentences.

Gurdon was silent; there was nothing for him to say. He was in a position in which he could
not possibly explain; he could only sit there, looking into the barrel of the deadly weapon,
and praying for some diversion which might be the means of saving his life. It came presently
in a strange and totally unexpected fashion. Upon the tense, nerve-breaking silence, a voice
suddenly intruded like a flash of light in a dark place. It was a sweet and girlish voice,
singing some simple ballad, with a natural pathos which rendered the song singularly touching
and attractive. As the voice came nearer the cripple's expression changed entirely; his hard
eyes grew soft, and the handsome features were wreathed in a smile. Then the door opened, and
the singer came in.

Gurdon looked at her, though she seemed unconscious of his presence altogether. He saw a slight,
fair girl, dressed entirely in white, with her long hair streaming over her shoulders. The
face was very sad and wistful, the blue eyes clouded with some suggestion of trouble and despair.
Gurdon did not need a second glance to assure him that he was in the presence of one who was
mentally afflicted. She came forward and took her place by the side of the cripple.

"They told me that you are busy," she said, "Just as if it mattered whether you were busy or
not, when I wanted to see you."

"You must go away now, Beth," the cripple said, in his softest and most tender manner. "Don't
you see that I am talking with this gentleman?"

The girl turned eagerly to Gurdon; she crossed the room with a swift, elastic step, and laid
her two hands on him.

"I know what you have come for," she said, eagerly. "You have come to tell me all about Charles.
You have found him at last; you are going to bring him back to me. They told me he was dead,
that he had perished in the mine; but I knew better than that. I know that Charles will come
back to me again."

"What mine?" Gurdon asked.

"Why, the Four Finger Mine, of course," was the totally unexpected reply. "They said that Charles
had lost his life in the Four Finger Mine. It was in a kind of dream that I saw his body lying
there, murdered. But I shall wake from the dream presently, and he will come back to me, come
back in the evening, as he always used to when the sun was setting beyond the pines."

There was something so utterly sad and hopeless in this that Gurdon averted his eyes from the
girl's face. He glanced in the direction of the door; then it required all his self control
to repress a cry, for in the comparative gloom of the passage beyond, he could just make out
the figure of Vera, who stood there with her finger on her lip as if imposing silence. He could
see that in her hand she held something that looked like a chisel. A moment later she flitted
away once more, leaving Gurdon to puzzle his brain as to what it all meant.

"I am sorry for all this," the cripple said. "You have entirely by accident come face to face
with a phase in my life which is sacred and inviolate. Really, if I had no other reason for
reducing you to silence, this would be a sufficiently powerful inducement. My dear Beth, I
really must ask you--"

Whatever the cripple might have intended to say, the speech was never finished; for, at that
moment, the electric lights vanished suddenly, plunging the whole house into absolute darkness.
A moment later, footsteps came hurrying along in the hall, and a voice was heard to say that
the fuse from the meter had gone, and it would be impossible to turn on the light again until
the officials had been called in to repair the damage. At the same moment, Gurdon rose to his
feet and crept quietly in the direction of the door. Here, at any rate, was a chance of escape,
for that his life was in dire peril he had felt for some little time. He had hardly reached
the doorway when he felt a slim hand touch his, and he was guided from the room into the passage
beyond. He could give a pretty fair idea as to the owner of the slim fingers that trembled
in his own, but he made no remark; he allowed himself to be led on till his feet stumbled against
the stairs.

"This way," a voice whispered. "Say nothing, and make no protest. You will be quite safe from
further harm."

Gurdon did exactly as he was told. He found himself presently at the top of a staircase, and
a little later on in a room, the door of which was closed very quietly by his guide.

"I think I can guess who I have to thank for this," Gurdon murmured. "But why did you not take
me to the front door, or the back entrance leading to the garden? It was lucky for me that
the lights failed at the critical moment--a piece of nominal good fortune, such as usually
only happens in a story. But I should feel a great deal safer if I were on the other side of
the front door."

"That is quite impossible," Vera said, for it was she who had come to Gurdon's rescue. "Both
doors are locked, and all the rooms on the ground floor are furnished with shutters. As to
the light going out, I am responsible for it. I learned all about the electric light when I
lived in a mining camp in Mexico. I had only to remove one of the lamps and apply my chisel
to the two poles, and thereby put out every fuse in the house. That is why the light failed,
for it occurred to me that in the confusion that followed the darkness, I should be in a position
to save you. But you little realise how near you have been to death to-night. And, why, oh,
why did you follow me in this way? It was very wrong of you."

"It was Venner's idea," Gurdon said. "He had a strange fear that you were going into some danger.
He asked me to follow you, and I did so. As to the manner of my getting here--"

"I know all about that," Vera said hurriedly. "I have been listening to your conversation.
I dare say you are curious to know something more about this strange household; but, for the
present, you will be far better employed in getting away from it. I shall not be easy in my
mind till you are once more in the street."

CHAPTER VIII

MISSING

Gurdon waited to hear what his companion was going to say now. He had made up his mind to place
himself implicitly in her hands, and let her decide for the best. Evidently, he had found himself
in a kind of lunatic asylum, where one inhabitant at least had developed a dangerous form of
homicidal mania, and he had a pretty sure conclusion that Vera had saved his life. It was no
time now to ask questions; that would come later on.

"I am sure I am awfully grateful to you," Gurdon said. "Who are these people, and why do they
behave in this insane fashion? This is not exactly the kind of menage one expects to find in
one of the best appointed mansions in the West End."

"I can tell you nothing about it," Vera said. There was a marked coldness in her voice that
told Gurdon he was going too far. "I can tell you nothing. One thing you may rest assured of--I
am in no kind of danger, nor am I likely to be. My concern chiefly at the present moment is
with you. I want you to get back as soon as you can to the Great Empire Hotel, and ease Gerald's
mind as to myself."

"I hardly like to go, without you," Gurdon murmured.

"But you must," Vera protested. "Let me assure you once more that I am as absolutely safe here
as if I were in my own room. Now, come this way. I dare not strike a light. I can only take
you by the hand and lead you to the top of the house. Every inch of the place is perfectly
familiar to me, and you are not likely to come to the least harm. Please don't waste a moment
more of your time."

Gurdon yielded against his better judgment. A moment or two later, he found himself climbing
through a skylight on to the flat leads at the top of the house. By the light of the town he
could now see what he was doing, and pretty well where he was. From the leads he could look
down into the garden, though, as yet, he could not discern any avenue of escape.

"The thing is quite easy," Vera explained. "The late occupant of the house had a nervous dread
of fire, and from every floor he had a series of rope ladders arranged. See, there is one fixed
to this chimney. I have only to throw it over, and you can reach the garden without delay;
then I will pull the ladder up again and no one will be any the wiser. Please, leave me without
any further delay, in the absolute assurance that I shall be back again within an hour."

A few minutes later Gurdon was in the street again, making his way back to the hotel where
Venner was waiting for him.

It was a strange story that he had to tell; a very thrilling and interesting adventure, but
one which, after all, still further complicated the mystery and rendered it almost unintelligible.

"And you mean to say that you have been actually face to face with our cripple friend?" Venner
said. "You mean to say that he would actually have murdered you if Vera had not interfered
in that providential manner? I suppose I must accept your assurance that she is absolutely
safe, though I can't help feeling that she has exaggerated her own position. I am terribly
anxious about her. I have an idea which I should like to carry out. I feel tolerably sure that
this picturesque cripple of ours could tell us everything that we want to know. Besides, unless
I do something I shall go mad. What do you say to paying the interesting cripple a visit to-morrow
night, and forcing him to tell us everything?"

Gurdon shook his head; he was not particularly impressed with the suggestion that Venner had made.

"Of course, we could get into the house easily enough," he said. "Now that I have learned the
secret of the cellar, there will be no difficulty about that. Still, don't you think it seems
rather ridiculous to try this sort of thing when your wife is in a position to tell you the
whole thing?"

"But she would decline to do anything of the kind," Venner protested. "She has told me that
her lips are sealed; she has even no explanation to offer for the way in which she left me
within half-an-hour of our becoming man and wife. I should almost be justified in forcing her
to speak; but, you see, I cannot do that. Therefore, I must treat her in a way as if she were
one of our enemies. I have a very strong fancy for paying a visit to our cripple friend, and,
if the worst came to the worst, we could convince him that we are emphatically not on the side
of Mark Fenwick. At any rate, I mean to have a try, and if you don't like to come in--"

"Oh, I'll come in fast enough," Gurdon said. "You had better meet me to-morrow night at my
rooms, say, about eleven; then, we will see what we can do with a view to a solution of the
mystery."

At the appointed time, Venner duly put in an appearance. He was clothed in a dark suit and
cap, Gurdon donning a similar costume. Under his arm Venner had a small brown paper parcel.

"What have you got there?" Gurdon asked.

"A pair of tennis shoes," was the response. "And if you take my advice, you should have a pair,
too. My idea is to take off our boots directly we get into the seclusion of the garden and
change into these shoes. Now come along, let's get it over."

It was an easy matter to reach the garden without being observed, and in a very short time
the two friends were standing close to the windows of the large room at the back of the house.
There was not so much as a glimmer of light to be seen anywhere within. Very cautiously they
felt their way along until they came at length to the grating through which Gurdon had made
so dramatic an entrance on the night before. He took from his pocket a box of vestas, and ventured
to strike one. He held it down close to the ground, shading the tiny point of flame in the
hollow of his hand.

"Here is a bit of luck to begin with," he chuckled. "They haven't fastened this grating up
again. I suppose my escape last night must have upset them. At any rate, here is a way into
the house without running the risk of being arrested on a charge of burglary, and if the police
did catch us we should find it an exceedingly awkward matter to frame an excuse carefully,
to satisfy a magistrate."

"That seems all right," Venner said. "When we get into the cellar it's any odds that we find
the door of the stairs locked. I don't suppose the grating has been forgotten. You see, it
is not such an easy matter to get the British workman to do a job on the spur of the moment."

"Well, come along; we will soon ascertain that," Gurdon said. "Once down these steps, we shall
be able to use our matches."

They crept cautiously down the stairs into the damp and moldy cellar; thence, up the steps
on the other side, where Gurdon lighted one of his matches. The door was closed, but it yielded
quite easily to the touch, and at length the two men were in the part of the house which was
given over to the use of the servants. So far as they could judge the place was absolutely
deserted. Doubtless the domestic staff had retired to bed. All the same, it seemed strange
to find no signs of life in the kitchen. The stove was cold, and though the grate was full
of cinders, it was quite apparent that no fire had been lighted there for the past four and
twenty hours. Again, there was no furniture in the kitchen other than a large table and a couple
of chairs. The dressers were empty, and the shelves deprived of their usual burden.

"This is odd," Venner murmured. "Perhaps we shall have better luck on the dining-room floor.
I suppose we had better not turn on the lights!"

"That would be too risky," Gurdon said. "However, I have plenty of matches, which will serve
our purpose equally well."

On cautiously reaching the hall a further surprise awaited the intruders. There was absolutely
nothing there--not so much as an umbrella stand. The marble floor was swept bare of everything,
the big dining-room which the night before had been most luxuriously furnished, was now stripped
and empty; not so much as a flower remained; and the conservatory beyond showed nothing but
wooden staging and glittering glass behind that. A close examination of the whole house disclosed
the fact that it was absolutely empty.

"If I did not know you as well as I do," Venner said grimly, "I should say that you had been
drinking. Do you mean to tell me that you sat in this dining-room last night, and that it was
furnished in the luxurious way you described? Do you mean to tell me that you sat here, opposite
our cripple friend, waiting for him to shoot you? Are you perfectly certain that we have made
our way into the right house? You have no doubt on that score?"

"Of course, I haven't," Gurdon said, a little hotly. "Would there be two houses close together,
both of them with a broken grating over the cellar? I tell you this is the same house right
enough. It was just in this particular spot I was seated when the lights went out, and your
wife's fertility of resource saved my life. It may be possible that the electric fuses have
not yet been repaired. At any rate, I'll see."

Gurdon laid his hand upon the switch and snapped it down. No light came; the solitary illuminating
point in the room was afforded by the match which Venner held in his hand.

"There," Gurdon said, with a sort of gloomy triumph. "Doesn't that prove it? I suppose that
our cripple took alarm and has cleared out of the house."

"That's all very well, but it is almost impossible to remove the furniture of a great place
like this in the course of a day."

"My dear chap, I don't think it has been removed in the course of a day. Didn't you notice
just now what a tremendous lot of dust we stirred up as we were going over the house? My theory
is this--only three or four of the rooms were furnished, and the rest of the house was closed.
When I made my escape last night, the cripple must have taken alarm and gone away from here
as speedily as possible. What renders the whole thing more inexplicable is the fact that your
wife could explain everything if she pleased. But after a check-mate like this, I don't see
the slightest reason for staying here any longer. The best thing we can do is to get back to
my rooms and discuss the matter over a whiskey and soda and cigar. But, talking about cigars,
will you have the goodness to look at this?"

From the empty grate Gurdon picked up a half smoked cigar of a somewhat peculiar make and shape.

"I want you to notice this little bit of evidence," he said. "This is the very cigar that the
cripple gave me last night. I can't say that I altogether enjoyed smoking it, but it was my
tip to humor him. I smoked that much. When the white lady came in I naturally threw the end
of the cigar into the fireplace. In the face of this, I don't think you will accuse me of dreaming."

More than one cigar was consumed before Venner left his friend's rooms, but even the inspiration
of tobacco failed to elucidate a solitary point at issue. What had become of the cripple, and
where had he vanished so mysteriously? Gurdon was still debating this point over a late breakfast
the following morning, when Venner came in. His face was flushed and his manner was excited.
He carried a copy of an early edition of an evening paper in his hand--the edition which is
usually issued by most papers a little after noon.

"I think I've discovered something," he said. "It was quite by accident, but you will not fail
to be interested in something that appears in the Comet. It alludes to the disappearance of
a gentleman called Bates, who seems to have vanished from his house in Portsmouth Square. You
know the name of the Square, of course?"

Gurdon pushed his coffee cup away from him, and lighted a cigarette. He felt that something
of importance was coming.

"I suppose I ought to know the name of the square," he said grimly. "Seeing that I nearly lost
my life in a house there the night before last. But please go on. I see you have something
to tell me that is well worth hearing."

"That's right," Venner said. "Most of it is in this paper. It appears that the aforesaid Mr.
Bates is a gentleman of retiring disposition, and somewhat eccentric habits. As far as one
can gather, he has no friends, but lives quietly in Portsmouth Square, his wants being ministered
to by a body of servants who have been in his employ for years. Of necessity, Mr. Bates is
a man of wealth, or he could not possibly live in a house the rent of which cannot be less
than five or six hundred a year. As a rule, Mr. Bates rarely leaves his house, but last night
he seems to have gone out unattended, and since then, he has not been seen."

"Stop a moment," Gurdon exclaimed eagerly. "I am beginning to see daylight at last. What was
the number of the house where this Bates lived? I mean the number of the square."

Venner turned to his paper, and ran his eye down the printed column. Then he smiled as he spoke.

"The number of the house," he said, "is 75."

"I knew it," Gurdon said excitedly. "I felt pretty certain of it. The man who has disappeared
lived at No. 75, and the place where we had our adventure, or rather, I had my adventure, is
No. 74. Now, tell me, who was it who informed the police of the disappearance of Mr. Bates?
Some servant, I suppose?"

"Of course; and the servant goes on to suggest that Mr. Bates had mysterious enemies, who caused
him considerable trouble from time to time. But now I come to the interesting part of my story.
At the foot of the narrative which is contained in the Comet, that I hold in my hand, is a
full description of Mr. Bates."

"Go on," Gurdon said breathlessly. "I should be little less than an idiot if I did not know
what was coming."

"I thought you would guess," Venner said. "A name like Bates implies middle age and respectability.
But this Bates is described as being young and exceedingly good looking. Moreover, he is afflicted
with a kind of paralysis, which renders his movements slow and uncertain. And now you know
all about it. There is not the slightest doubt that this missing Bates is no other than our
interesting friend, the good-looking cripple. The only point which leaves us in doubt is the
fact that Mr. Bates is a respectable householder, living at 75, Portsmouth Square, while the
man who tried to murder you entertained you at No. 74, which house, now, is absolutely empty.
We need not discuss that puzzle at the present moment, because there are more important things
to occupy our attention. There can be no doubt that this man who calls himself Bates has been
kidnapped by somebody. You will not have much difficulty in guessing the name of the culprit."

"I guess it at once," Gurdon said. "If I mention the name of Mark Fenwick, I think I have said
the last word."

CHAPTER IX

A NEW PHASE

There was not the slightest doubt that Gurdon had hit the mark. As far as they could see at
present, the man most likely to benefit by the death or disappearance of the cripple was Mark
Fenwick. Still, it was impossible to dismiss the thing in this casual way, nor could it be
forgotten that the cripple had actually been present at the Grand Empire Hotel on the night
when the alleged millionaire received his message by means of the mummified finger. Therefore,
logically speaking, it was only fair to infer that on the night in question Fenwick had not
been acquainted with the personality of the cripple. Otherwise, the latter would have scarcely
ventured to show himself in a place where his experiment had been brought to a conclusion.

On the other hand, it was just possible that Fenwick had been looking for the cripple for some
time past. But all this was more or less in the air, though there was a great deal to be said
for the conclusion at which the two friends had arrived.

"I work it out like this," Venner said, after a long, thoughtful pause. "You know all about
the Four Finger Mine; you know exactly what happened to the Dutchman Van Fort after the murder
of Le Fenu. It will be fresh in your recollection how, by some mysterious agency, the fingers
of the Dutchman were conveyed to his wife, though he himself was never seen again. It is quite
fair to infer that Fenwick has contrived to get hold of the same mine, though that dangerous
property does not seem to have harmed him as much as it did the other thief. Still, we know
that he has lost all the fingers of his left hand, and we have evidence of the fact that the
vengeance has been worked out in the same mysterious fashion as it was worked out on the Dutchman.
We know, too, who is at the bottom of the plot, we know that the cripple could tell us all
about it if he liked. Obviously, this same cripple is a deadly enemy of Fenwick's. And, no
doubt, Fenwick has found out where to lay his hands upon his man quite recently. Fenwick is
a clever man, he is bold and unscrupulous, and without question he set to work at once to get
the better of the cripple. Of course, this may be nothing but a wrong theory of mine, and it
may lead us astray, but it is all I can see to work upon at present."

"I don't think you are very far wrong," Gurdon said, "but I am still puzzled about the house
in Portsmouth Square."

"Which house do you mean?" Venner asked.

"The one in which my adventure took place. The house from which the furniture vanished so mysteriously."

"That seems to me capable of an easy explanation," Venner replied. "There is no doubt that
the man called Bates and the cripple are one and the same person. You must admit that."

"Yes, I admit that freely enough. Go on."

"Well, this Bates, as we will call him, has a large establishment at 75, Portsmouth Square.
The house next door was empty, possibly it belonged to Mr. Bates. He had a whim for furnishing
a room or two in an empty house, or perhaps there was some more sinister purpose behind it.
Anyway, after you had blundered on the place and had taken your life in your hands, it became
necessary for the man to disappear from No. 74. Therefore, he had that furniture removed at
once. I daresay if we investigated the house carefully we should find that there was some means
of communication between the two; at least, that is the only explanation I can think of."

"You've got it," Gurdon cried. "I'll wager any money, you are right. But I am sorry the man
has vanished in this mysterious way, because it checks our investigations at the very outset.
The last thing you wanted in this matter was police interference. Now the whole thing has got
into the papers, and the public are sure to take the matter up. It is the very class of mystery
that the cheap press loves to dwell upon. It has all the attributes of the cause celebre. Here
is a handsome man, picturesque looking, a cripple into the bargain, a man leading an absolutely
secluded life, and the very last person in the world one would expect to have enemies. He is
very rich, too, and lives in one of the finest houses in the West End of London. He disappears
in the most mysterious manner. Unless I am greatly mistaken, within the next two or three days
London will be disclosing this matter and the newspapers will be full of it."

"I am afraid you are right," Venner admitted; "but I don't see how we are going to gain any
thing by telling the police what we have found out. As you know, I investigated this matter
solely in the interests of the woman I love, and with the one intention of freeing her life
from the cloud that hangs over it. In any other circumstances I would go direct to Scotland
Yard and tell them everything we know. But not now. I think you will agree with me that we
should go our own way and say nothing to anybody about our discovery."

The events of the next day or so fully verified the fears of the two friends. The Bates case
appealed powerfully to the large section of the public who delight in crimes of the mysterious
order. Within a couple of days most of the papers were devoting much space to the problem.
It so happened, too, that the week was an exceedingly barren one from a news point of view;
therefore, the Bates case had the place of honor. There was absolutely no fresh information,
not a single line that pointed to a definite solution of the problem. Indeed, the ingenious
way in which most of the papers contrived to fill some three columns a day was beyond all praise.
But both Gurdon and Venner searched in vain for a scrap of information that threw any light
on the identity of the missing man. His habits were described at some length, a tolerably accurate
description of his household appeared in several quarters; but nothing very much beyond that.
The missing man's servants were exceedingly reticent, and if they knew anything whatever about
their master they had preferred to confide it to the police in preference to the inquisitive
reporter. Not a single relative turned up, though it was generally understood that the missing
man was possessed of considerable property.

It was on the third day that Venner began to see daylight. One of the evening papers had come
out with a startling letter which seemed to point to a clue, though it conveyed nothing to
the police. Venner came round to Gurdon's rooms with a copy of the evening paper in his hand.
He laid it before his friend and asked him to read the letter, which, though it contained but
a few lines, was of absorbing interest to both of them.

"You see what this man says?" Venner remarked. "He appears to be a workingman who got himself
into trouble over a drinking bout. Two days ago he was charged before the magistrate with being
drunk and disorderly, and was sentenced to a fine of forty shillings or fourteen days' imprisonment.
According to his story, the money was not forthcoming, therefore he was taken to gaol. At the
end of two days his friends contrived to obtain the necessary cash and he was released. He
writes all this to show how it was that he was entirely ignorant of the startling events which
had taken place in the Bates case. This man goes on to say that on the night when Mr. Bates
disappeared he was passing Portsmouth Square on his way home from some public-house festivities.
He was none too sober, and has a hazy recollection of what he saw. He recollects quite clearly,
now that he has time to think the matter over, seeing a cab standing at the corner of the Square
within three doors of No. 75. At the same time, a telegraph boy called at No. 75 with a message.
It was at this point that the narrator of the story stopped to light his pipe. It was rather
a windy evening, so that he used several matches in the process. Anyway, he stood there long
enough to see the telegraph boy deliver his message to a gentleman who appeared to have great
difficulty in getting to the door. No sooner had the telegraph boy gone than the gentleman
crept slowly and painfully down the steps and walked in the direction of the cab. Then somebody
stepped from the cab and accosted the cripple, who, beyond all question, was the mysterious
Bates. The writer of the letter says that he heard a sort of cry, then someone called out something
in a language that he was unable to understand. He rather thinks it was Portuguese, because
among his fellow workmen is a Portuguese artisan, and the language sounded something like his."

"We are getting on," Gurdon said. "That little touch about the Portuguese language clearly
points to Fenwick."

"Of course, it does," Venner went on. "But that is not quite all. The letter goes on to say
that something like a struggle took place, after which the cripple was bundled into the cab,
which was driven away. It was a four-wheeled cab, and the peculiarity about it was that it
had india rubber tires, which is a most unusual thing for the typical growler. The author of
all this information says that the struggle appeared to be of no very desperate nature, for
it was followed by nothing in the way of a call for help. Indeed, the workman who is telling
all this seemed to think that it was more or less in the way of what he calls a spree. He said
nothing whatever to the police about it, fearing perhaps that he himself was in no fit state
to tell a story; and, besides, there was just the possibility that he might find himself figuring
before a magistrate the next morning. That is the whole of the letter, Gurdon, which though
it conveys very little to the authorities, is full of pregnant information for ourselves. At
any rate, it tells us quite clearly that Fenwick was at the bottom of this outrage."

"Quite right," Gurdon said. "The little touch about the Portuguese language proves that. Is
there anything else in the letter likely to be useful to us?"

"No, I have given you the whole of it. Personally, the best thing we can do is to go and interview
the writer, who has given his name and address. A small, but judicious, outlay in the matter
of beer will cause him to tell us all we want to know."

It was somewhere in the neighborhood of the Docks where the man who had given his name as James
Taylor was discovered later on in the day. He was a fairly intelligent type of laborer, who
obtained a more or less precarious livelihood as a docker. As a rule, he worked hard enough
four or five hours a day when things were brisk, and, in slack periods when money was scarce,
he spent the best part of his day in bed. He had one room in a large tenement house, where
the friends found him partially dressed and reading a sporting paper. He was not disposed to
be communicative at first, but the suggestion of something in the way of liquid refreshment
stimulated his good-nature.

"Right you are," he said. "I've had nothing today besides a mouthful of breakfast, and when
I've paid my rent I shall have a solitary tanner left; but I 'ope you gents are not down here
with a view of getting a poor chap into trouble?"

Gurdon hastened to reassure him on that head. He was balancing a half-sovereign thoughtfully
on his forefinger.

"We are not going to hurt you at all," he said. "We want you to give us a little information.
In proof of what I say you can take this half-sovereign and obtain what liquid refreshment
you require. Also, you can keep the change. If you don't like my proposal, there is an end
of the matter."

"Don't be short, guv'nor," Taylor responded. "I like that there proposition of yours so well
that I'm going to take it; 'alf-sovereigns ain't so plentiful as all that comes to. If you
just wait a moment, I'll be back in 'alf a tick. Then I'll tell you all you want to know."

The man was back again presently, and professed himself ready to answer any questions that
might be put to him. His manner grew just a little suspicious as Venner mentioned the name
of Bates.

"You don't look like police," he said. "Speaking personally, I ain't fond of 'em, and I don't
want to get into trouble."

"We have no connection whatever with the police," Venner said. "In fact, we would rather not
have anything to do with them. It so happens that we are both interested in the gentleman that
you saw getting into the cab the other night. I have read your letter in the paper, and I am
quite prepared to believe every word of it. The only thing we want to know is whether you saw
the man in the cab--"

"Which one?" Taylor asked. "There were two blokes in the cab."

"This is very interesting," Venner murmured. "I shall be greatly obliged to you if you will
describe both of them."

"I couldn't describe the one, guv'nor," Taylor replied. "His back was to me all the time, and
when you come to think of it, I wasn't quite so clear in the head as I might have been. But
I caught a glimpse of the other man's face; as he looked out of the cab the light of the lamp
shone on his face. He'd a big cloak on, as far as I could judge, with the collar turned up
about his throat, and a soft hat on his head. He knocks the hat off looking out of the cab
window, then I see as 'is head was bald like a bloomin' egg, and yellow, same as if he had
been painted. I can't tell you any more than that, not if you was to give me another 'alf-sovereign
on the top of the first one."

"Just another question," Gurdon said. "Then we won't bother you any more. About what age do
you suppose the man was?"

Taylor paused thoughtfully for a moment before he replied.

"Well, I should think he was about fifty-five or sixty," he said. "Looked like some sort of
a foreigner."

"That will do, thank you," Venner said. "We will not detain you any longer. At the same time
I should be obliged if you would keep this information to yourself; but, of course, if the
police question you, you will have to speak. But a discreet silence on the subject of this
visit of ours would be esteemed."

Taylor winked and nodded, and the friends departed, not displeased to get away from the stuffy
and vitiated atmosphere of Taylor's room. On the whole, they were not dissatisfied with the
result of their expedition. At any rate, they had now proof positive of the fact that Fenwick
was at the bottom of the mysterious disappearance of the man called Bates.

"I don't quite see what we are going to do next," Venner said. "So far, we have been exceedingly
fortunate to find ourselves in possession of a set of clues which would be exceedingly valuable
to the police. But how are we going to use these clues is quite another matter. What do you
suggest?"

"Keeping a close eye upon Fenwick at any rate. For that purpose it would not be a bad idea
to employ a private inquiry agent. He need know nothing of what we are after."

Thereupon it was decided that Gurdon was to dine with Venner that night and go fully into the
matter.

CHAPTER X

THE SECOND FINGER

It was, perhaps, fortunate for all concerned that, though Venner was so closely identified
by the irony of Fate with the movements of Mark Fenwick, he was not known to the latter personally,
though they had been almost side by side three years previous in Mexico. Therefore, it was
possible for Venner to get a table in the dining-room quite close to that of the alleged millionaire.
It was all the more fortunate, as things subsequently turned out, that Fenwick had returned
to town that afternoon and had announced his intention of dining at the hotel the same evening.
This information Venner gave to Gurdon when the latter turned up about half-past seven. Then
the host began to outline the plan of campaign which he had carefully thought out.

"Fenwick is dining over there," he said. "He generally sits with his back to the wall, and
I have had our table so altered that we can command all his movements. Vera, of course, will
dine with him. Naturally enough, she will act as if we were absolute strangers to her. That
will be necessary."

"Of course," Gurdon admitted. "But isn't it a strange thing that you should be an absolute
stranger to Fenwick?"

"Well, it does seem strange on the face of it. But it is capable of the easiest explanation.
You see, when I first met Vera, she was at school in a town somewhere removed from the Four
Finger Mine. I saw a good deal of her there, and when finally she went up country, we were
practically engaged. At her urgent request the engagement was kept a secret, and when I followed
to the Mines it was distinctly understood that I should not call at Fenwick's house or make
myself known to him except in the way of business. As it happens, we never did meet, and whenever
I saw Vera it was usually by stealth. The very marriage was a secret one, and you may charge
me fairly with showing great weakness in the matter. But there, I have told you the story before,
and you must make the best of it. On the whole, I am glad things turned out as they did, for
now I can play my cards in the game against Fenwick without his even suspecting that he has
me for an opponent. It is certainly an advantage in my favor."

Venner had scarcely ceased speaking before Fenwick and Vera appeared. She gave one timid glance
at Venner; then, averting her eyes, she walked demurely across to her place at the table. Fenwick
followed, looking downcast and moody, and altogether unlike a man who is supposed to be the
happy possessor of millions. His manner was curt and irritable, and he seemed disposed to find
fault with everything. Venner noticed, too, that though the man ate very little he partook
of far more champagne than was good for anyone. Thanks no doubt to the wine, the man's dark
mood lifted presently, and he began chatting to Vera. The two men at the other table appeared
to be deeply interested in their dinner, though, as a matter of fact, they were listening intently
to every word that Fenwick was saying. He was talking glibly enough now about some large house
in the country which he appeared to have taken for the winter months. Vera listened with polite
indifference.

"In Kent," Fenwick was saying. "Not very far from Canterbury. A fine old house, filled with
grand furniture, just the sort of place you'd like. I've made all arrangements, and the sooner
we get away from London the better I shall be pleased."

"It will be rather dull, I fear," Vera replied. "I don't suppose that I shall get on very well
with county people--"

"Hang the county people," Fenwick growled. "Who cares a straw for them? Not but what they'll
come along fast enough when they hear that Mark Fenwick, the millionaire, is in their midst.
Still, there is a fine park round the house, and you'll be able to get as much riding as you want."

Venner watching furtively saw that Vera was interested for the first time. He had not forgotten
the fact that she was an exceedingly fine horsewoman; he recollected the glorious rides they
had had together. Interested as he was in the mysterious set of circumstances which had wound
themselves into his life, he was not without hope that this change would enable him to see
more of Vera than was possible in London. In the lonely country he would be able to plan meetings
with her; indeed, he had made up his mind to leave London as soon as Vera had gone. Moreover,
in this instance, duty and inclination pointed the same way. If the mystery were to be solved
and Vera freed from her intolerable burden, it would be essential that every movement of Fenwick's
should be carefully watched. The only way to carry out this plan successfully would be to follow
him into Kent.

"You heard that?" he murmured to Gurdon. "We must find out exactly where this place is, and
then look out some likely quarters in the neighborhood. I must contrive to see Vera and learn
her new address before she goes."

"No reason to worry about that," Gurdon said. "It will all be in the papers. The doings of
these monied men are chronicled as carefully now as the movements of Royalty. It is any odds
when you take up your Morning Post in the morning that you will know not only exactly where
Fenwick is going to spend the winter, but get an exact history of the house. So far as I can
see we might finish our dinner and go off to a theatre. We are not likely to hear any more
to-night, and all this mystery and worry is beginning to get on my nerves. What do you say
to an hour or two at the Gaiety?"

Venner pleaded for a few moments' delay. So far as he was personally concerned he felt very
unlike the frivolity of the typical musical comedy; but still, he had finished his dinner by
this time and was not disposed to be churlish. Fenwick had completed his repast also, and was
sipping his coffee in an amiable frame of mind, heedless apparently of business worries of
all kinds.

At the same moment a waiter came into the room and advanced to the millionaire's table with
a small parcel in his hand.

"A letter for you, sir. An express letter which has just arrived. Will you be good enough to
sign the receipt?"

"Confound the people," Fenwick growled. "Can't you leave me alone for half an hour when I am
having my dinner? Take the thing up to my room. You sign it, Vera."

"I'll sign it, of course," Vera replied. "But don't you think you had better open the parcel?
It may be of some importance. People don't usually send express letters at this time of night
unless they are urgent. Or, shall I open it for you?"

The waiter had gone by this time, taking the receipt for the letter with him. With a gesture
Fenwick signified to Vera that she might open the parcel. She cut the string and opened the
flat packet, disclosing a small object in tissue paper inside. This she handed to Fenwick,
who tore the paper off leisurely. Then the silence of the room was startled by the sound of
an oath uttered in tones of intense fury.

"Curse the thing!" Fenwick cried. His yellow face was wet and ghastly now. The big purple veins
stood out like cords on his forehead. "Am I never to be free from the terror of this mystery?
Where did it come from? How could it be possible when the very man I have most reason to dread
is no longer in a position--"

The speaker broke off suddenly, as if conscious that he was betraying himself. The little object
in the tissue paper lay on the table in such a position that it was impossible for Venner or
Gurdon to see what it was, but they could give a pretty shrewd guess. Venn or looked inquiringly
at his friend.

"Well, what do you suppose it is?" he asked.

"Personally, I have no doubt whatever as to what it is," Gurdon said. "I am as sure as if I
held the thing in my hand at the present moment. It is the second finger which at some time
or another was attached to Fenwick's hand."

"You've got it," Venner said. "Upon my word, the farther we go with this thing the more complicated
it becomes. No sooner do we clear up one point than a dozen fresh ones arrive. Now, is not
this amazing? We know perfectly well that the man whom we have to call Bates has been kidnapped
by our interesting friend opposite, and yet here the second warning arrives just as if Bates
were still free to carry out his vengeance. What can one make of it?"

"Well, the logical conclusion is that Bates has an accomplice. I fail to see any other way
of accounting for it."

Fenwick still sat there mopping his heated face and turning a disgusted eye upon the little
object on the table. He seemed to be terribly distressed and upset, though there was nothing
like the scene on the previous occasion, and, doubtless, few diners besides Venner and Gurdon
knew that anything out of the common was taking place there. But they were watching everything
carefully; they noted Fenwick's anxious face, they could hear his stertorous breathing. Though
he had dined so freely he called for brandy now, a large glass of which he drank without any
addition whatever. Then his agitation became less uncontrollable and a little natural color
crept into his cheeks. Without glancing at it he slipped the little object on the table into
his pocket and rose more or less unsteadily to his feet.

"I have had a shock," he muttered. "I don't deny that I have had a terrible shock. You don't
understand it, Vera, and I hope you never will. I wish I had never touched that accursed mine.
I wish it had been fathoms under the sea before I heard of it, but the mischief has been done
now, and I shall have to go on to the end. You can stay here if you like--as to me, I am going
to my own room. I want to be alone for a bit and think this matter out."

Fenwick lurched across the room with the air of a man who is more or less intoxicated, though
his head was clear enough and his faculties undimmed. Still, his limbs were trembling under
him and he groped his way to the door with the aid of a table here and there. It was perhaps
rather a risky thing to do, but Venner immediately crossed over and took the seat vacated so
recently by Fenwick. Vera welcomed him shyly, but it was palpable that she was ill at ease.
She would have risen had not Venner detained her.

"Don't you think you are very imprudent?" she said. "Suppose he should change his mind and
come back here again?"

"I don't think there is much chance of that," Venner said, grimly. "Fenwick will only be too
glad to be by himself for a bit. But tell me, dear, what was it that gave him such a shock?"

"I don't understand it at all," Vera said. "It was something to do with that dreadful mine
and the vengeance connected with it. This is the second time the same thing has happened within
the last few days, and I fear that it will culminate sooner or later in some fearful tragedy.
I have some hazy idea of the old legend, but I have almost forgotten what it is."

"I don't think you need worry about that," Venner said. "Though it will have to be spoken of
again when the whole thing is cleared up; but now I wish to talk to you on more personal matters.
Did I not understand Fenwick to say to-night that he was taking a large house somewhere in Kent?"

"That is his intention, I believe," Vera replied. "I understand it is a large, dull place in
the heart of the country. Personally I am not looking forward to it with the least pleasure.
Things are bad enough here in London, but there is always the comfortable feeling that one
is protected here, whereas in a lonely neighborhood the feeling of helplessness grows very strong."

"You are not likely to be lonely or neglected," Venner smiled. "As soon as I have definitely
ascertained where you are going, Gurdon and myself will follow. It is quite necessary that
we should be somewhere near you; but, of course, if you object--"

But Vera was not objecting. Her face flushed with a sudden happiness. The knowledge that the
man she loved was going to be so near her filled her with a sense of comfort.

"Don't you think it will be dangerous?" she asked.

"Not in the least," Venner said. "Don't forget that I am a stranger to Mark Fenwick, which
remark applies with equal force to Gurdon. And if we take a fancy to spend a month or two hunting
in the neighborhood of Canterbury, surely there is nothing suspicious in that. I am looking
forward to the hunting as a means whereby we may manage to get some long rides together. And
even if Fenwick does find it out, it will be easy to explain to him that you made my acquaintance
on the field of sport."

"I am glad to hear you say that," Vera whispered. "I may be wrong, of course, but I feel that
strange things are going to happen, and that I shall need your presence to give me courage."

Vera might have said more, but a waiter came into the room at the same moment with an intimation
to the effect that Mr. Fenwick desired to speak to her. She flitted away now, and there was
nothing for it but for Venner to fall in with Gurdon's suggestion of a visit to the theatre.

It was not long after breakfast on the following morning that Venner walked into Gurdon's rooms
with a new proposal.

"I have been thinking out this confounded thing," he said. "I have an idea; as you know, the
house where you had your adventure the other night is empty, it has occurred to me that perhaps
it may be to let. If so, we are going to call upon the agent in the characters of prospective
tenants. What I want to do is to ascertain if possible the name of the owner of the premises."

"I see," Gurdon said thoughtfully. "I am ready for you now."

It was some little time before the friends got on the right track, but they found the right
man at length. The agent was not quite sure whether he was in a position at present to make
any definite arrangements on the part of the owner.

"I presume he wants to let the house," he said, "though I have no instructions, and it is some
considerable time since I have heard from my client. You see, he lives abroad."

"Can't you give us his address," Venner asked, "and let us write to him direct? It would save
time."

"That I fear is equally impossible," the agent explained. "My client wanders about from place
to place, and I haven't the remotest idea where to find him. However, I'll do my best."

"You might tell us his name," Venner said.

"Certainly. His name is Mr. Le Fenu."

"What do you make of it?" Venner said, when once more he and Gurdon were in the street. "I
see you have forgotten what the name of Le Fenu implies. Don't you remember my telling you
that the original owner of the Four Finger Mine who was murdered by the Dutchman, Van Fort,
was called Le Fenu?"

CHAPTER XI

AN UNEXPECTED MOVE

On the whole the discovery was startling enough. It proved to demonstration that the man who
called himself Bates must have been in some way connected with the one-time unfortunate owner
of the Four Finger Mine. There was very little said as the two friends walked down the street
together. Venner paused presently, and stood as if an idea had occurred to him.

"I have a notion that something will come of this," he said. "I had a great mind to go back
to the agent's and try to get the key of the empty house under some pretext or another."

"What do you want it for?" Gurdon asked.

"I am not sure that I want it for anything," Venner admitted. "I have a vague idea, a shadowy
theory, that I am on the right track at last, but I may be wrong, especially as I am dealing
with so unscrupulous an opponent as Fenwick. All the same, I think I'll step round to that
agent's office this afternoon and get the key. Sooner or later, I shall want a town house,
and I don't see why that Portsmouth Square place shouldn't suit me very well."

Venner was true to his intention, and later in the afternoon was once more closeted with the
house-agent.

"Do you really want to let the place?" he asked.

"Well, upon my word, sir, I'm not quite sure," the agent replied. "As I said before, it is
such a difficult matter to get in contact with the owner."

"But unless he wanted to let it, why did he put it in your hands?" Venner asked. "Still, you
can try to communicate with him, and it will save time if you let me have the keys to take
measurements and get estimates for the decorating, and so on. I will give you any references
you require."

"Oh, there can be no objection to that," the agent replied. "Yes, you can have the keys now,
if you like. You are not in the least likely to run away with the place."

Venner departed with the keys in his possession, and made his way back to the hotel. He had
hardly reached his own room before a waiter came in with a note for him. It was from Vera,
with an urgent request that Venner would see her at once, and the intimation that there would
be no danger in his going up to the suite of rooms occupied by Mark Fenwick. Venner lost no
time in answering this message. He felt vaguely uneasy and alarmed. Surely, there must be something
wrong, or Vera would not have sent for him in this sudden manner. He could not quite see, either,
how it was that he could call at Fenwick's rooms without risk. However, he hesitated no longer,
but knocked at the outer door of the self-contained rooms, which summons was presently answered
by Vera herself.

"You can come in," she said. "I am absolutely alone. Mr. Fenwick has gone off in a great hurry
with all his assistants, and my own maid will not be back for some little time."

"But is there no chance of Fenwick coming back?" Venner asked. "If he caught me here, all my
plans would be ruined. My dear girl, why don't you leave him and come to me? I declare it makes
me miserable to know that you are constantly in contact with such a man as that. It isn't as
if you were any relation to him."

"Thank goodness, I am no relation at all," Vera replied. "It is not for my own sake that I
endure all this humiliation."

"Then, why endure it?" Venner urged.

"Because I cannot help myself. Because there is someone else whom I have to look after and
shield from harm. Some day you will know the whole truth, but not yet, because my lips are
sealed. But I did not bring you here to talk about myself. There are other and more urgent
matters. I am perfectly sure that something very wrong is going on here. Not long after breakfast
this morning, Mr. Fenwick was sitting here reading the paper, when he suddenly rose in a state
of great agitation and began sending telegrams right and left. I am certain that there was
terribly disturbing intelligence in that paper; but what it was, I, of course, cannot say.
I have looked everywhere for a clue and all in vain. No sooner were the telegrams dispatched
than the three or four men here, whom Mr. Fenwick calls his clerks, gathered all his papers
and things together and sent them off by express vans. Mr. Fenwick told me that everything
was going to the place that he had taken at Canterbury, but I don't believe that, because none
of the boxes were labelled. Anyway, they have all gone, and I am instructed to remain here
until I hear from Mr. Fenwick again."

Venner began to understand; in the light of his superior knowledge it was plain to him that
these men had been interrupted in some work, and that they feared the grip of the law. He expressed
a wish to see the paper which had been the cause of all the trouble. The news-sheet lay on
the floor where Fenwick had thrown it, and Venner took it up in his hands.

"This has not been disturbed?" he asked.

"No," Vera replied. "I thought it best not to. I have looked at both sides of the paper myself,
but I have not turned over a leaf. You see, it must have been on one side or another of this
sheet that the disturbing news appeared, and that is why I have not looked further. Perhaps
you will be able to pick out the particular paragraph? There is plenty of time."

Very carefully Venner scanned the columns of the paper. He came at length to something that
seemed to him to bear upon the sudden change of plans which appeared to have been forced upon
Fenwick. The paragraph in question was not a long one, and emanated from the New York correspondent
of the Daily Herald.

"We are informed," the paragraph ran, "that the police here believe that at length they are
on the track of the clever gang of international swindlers who were so successful in their
bank forgeries two years ago. Naturally enough, the authorities are very reticent as to names
and other details, but they declare that they have made a discovery which embraces what is
practically a new crime, or, at any rate, a very ingenious variant upon an old one. As far
as we can understand, the police were first put on the track by the discovery of the fact that
the head of the gang had recently transported some boxes of gold dust to London. Quite by accident
this discovery was made, and, at first, the police were under the impression that the gold
had been stolen. When, however, they had proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that the gold
in question was honestly the property of the gang, they naturally began to ask themselves what
it was intended for. As the metal could be so easily transferred into cash, what was the object
of the gang in taking the gold to Europe? This question the Head of the Criminal Investigation
Department feels quite sure that he has successfully solved. The public may look for startling
developments before long. Meanwhile, two of the smartest detectives in New York are on their
way to Europe, and are expected to reach Liverpool by the Lusitania to-day."

"There is the source of the trouble," Venner said. "I hardly care about telling you how I know,
because the less information you have on this head the better. And I don't want your face to
betray you to the sharp eyes of Mark Fenwick. But I am absolutely certain that that paragraph
is the source of all the mischief."

"I daresay it is," Vera sighed. "I feel so terribly lonely and frightened sometimes, so afraid
of something terrible happening, that I feel inclined to run away and hide myself. What shall
I do now, though I am afraid you cannot help me?"

"I can help you in a way you little dream of," Venner said through his teeth. "For the present,
at any rate, you had better do exactly as Fenwick tells you. I am not going to leave you here
all alone, when we have a chance like this; after dinner, I am going to take you to a theatre.
Meanwhile, I must leave you now, as I have much work to do, and there is no time to be lost.
It will be no fault of mine if you are not absolutely free from Mark Fenwick before many days
have passed."

Venner sat alone at dinner, keeping a critical eye open for whatever might be going on around
him. He had made one or two little calculations as to time and distance, and, unless his arithmetic
was very far out, he expected to learn something useful before midnight.

The meal had not proceeded very far when two strangers came in and took their places at a table
close by. They were in evening dress and appeared to be absolutely at home, yet, in some subtle
way, they differed materially from the other diners about them. On the whole, they might have
passed for two mining engineers who had just touched civilisation after a long lapse of time.
Venner noticed that they both ate and drank sparingly, and that they seemed to get through
their dinner as speedily as possible. They went off to the lounge presently to smoke over their
coffee, and Venner followed them. He dropped into a seat by their side.

"You have forgotten me, Mr. Egan," he said to the smaller man of the two. "Don't you remember
that night on the Bowery when I was fortunate enough to help you to lay hands on the notorious
James Daley? You were in rather a tight place, I remember."

"Bless me, if it isn't Mr. Venner," the other cried. "This is my friend, Grady. I daresay you
have heard of him."

"Of course I have," Venner replied. "Mr. Grady is quite as celebrated in his way as you are
yourself. But you see, there was a time when I took a keen interest in crime and criminals,
and some of my experiences in New York would make a respectable volume. When I heard that you
were coming over here--"

"You heard we were coming here?" Egan exclaimed. "I should very much like to know how you heard
that."

"Oh, you needn't be alarmed," Venner laughed. "Nobody has betrayed your secret mission to Europe,
though, strangely enough, I fancy I shall be in a position to give you some considerable assistance.
I happened to see a paragraph in the Herald to-day alluding to a mysterious gang of swindlers
who had hit upon a novel form of crime--something to do with gold dust, I believe it was. At
the end of the paragraph it stated that two of the smartest detectives in the New York Force
were coming over here, and, therefore, it was quite fair to infer that you might be one of
them. In any case, if you had not been, I could have introduced myself to your colleagues and
used your name."

Egan looked relieved, but he said nothing.

"You are quite right to be reticent," Venner said. "But, as I remarked before, I think I can
help you in this business. You hoped to lay hands on the man you wanted in this hotel."

"I quite see you know something," Egan replied. "As a matter of fart, we are a long way at
present from being in a position to lay hands on our man with a reasonable hope of convicting
him. There will be a great deal of watching to do first, and a lot of delicate detective work.
That is the worst of these confounded newspapers. How that paragraph got into the Herald, I
don't know, but it is going to cause Grady and myself a great deal of trouble. To be quite
candid, we did expect to find our man here, but when he had vanished as he did, just before
we arrived, I knew at once that somebody must have been giving him information."

"Do I know the name of the man?" Venner asked.

"If you don't, I certainly can't tell you," Egan said. "One has to be cautious, even with so
discreet a gentleman as yourself."

"That's very well," Venner said. "But it so happens that I am just as much interested in this
individual as yourself. Now let me describe him. He is short and stout, he is between fifty
and sixty years of age, he has beady black eyes, and a little hooked nose like a parrot. Also,
he has an enormous bald head, and his coloring is strongly like that of a yellow tomato. If
I am mistaken, then I have no further interest in the matter."

"Oh, you're not mistaken," Egan said. "That is our man right enough. But tell me, sir, do you
happen to know what his particular line is just at present?"

"I have a pretty good idea," Venner said; "but I am not quite sure as yet. I have been making
a few inquiries, and they all tend to confirm my theory, but I am afraid I cannot stay here
discussing the matter any longer, as I have an important appointment elsewhere. Do you propose
to stay at the Empire Hotel for any time?"

Egan replied that it all depended upon circumstances. They were in no way pressed for time,
and as they were there on State business they were not limited as to expenses. With a remark
to the effect that they might meet again later on in the evening, Venner went on his way and
stood waiting for Vera at the foot of the stairs. She came down presently, and they entered
a cab together.

"We won't go to a theatre at all," Venner said. "We will try one of the music halls, and we
shall be able to talk better there; if we have a box we shall be quite secure from observation."

"It is all the same to me," Vera smiled. "I care very little where I go so long as we are together.
How strange it is that you should have turned up in this extraordinary way!"

"There is nothing strange about it at all," Venner said. "It is only Fate making for the undoing
of the criminal. It may be an old-fashioned theory of mine, but justice always overtakes the
rogue sooner or later, and Fenwick's time is coming. I have been the instrument chosen to bring
about his downfall, and save you from your terrible position. If you would only confide in me--"

"But I can't, dear," Vera said. "There is somebody else. If it were not for that somebody else,
I could end my troubles to-morrow. But don't let us talk about it. Let us have two delightful
hours together and thank Providence for the opportunity."

The time passed all too quickly in the dim seclusion of one of the boxes; indeed, Vera sat
up with a start when the orchestra began to play the National Anthem. It seemed impossible
that the hour was close upon twelve. As to the performance itself, Vera could have said very
little. She had been far too engrossed in her companion to heed what was taking place upon
the stage.

"Come along," Venner said. "It has been a delightful time, but all too brief. I am going to
put you in a cab and send you back to the hotel, as I have to go and see Gurdon."

Vera made no demur to this arrangement, and presently was being conveyed back to the hotel,
while Venner thoughtfully walked down the street. Late as it was, the usual crop of hoarse
yelling newsboys were ranging the pavement and forcing their wares on the unwilling passers-by.

"Here you are, sir. 'Late Special.' Startling development of the Bates Case. The mystery solved."

"I'll take one of those," Venner said. "Here's sixpence for you, and you can keep the change.
Call me that cab there."

CHAPTER XII

THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR

Venner lost no time in reaching the rooms of his friend Gurdon, and was fortunate enough to
find the latter at home. He was hard at work on some literary matter, but he pushed his manuscript
aside as Venner came excitedly into the room.

"Well, what is it?" he asked. "Anything fresh? But your face answers that question. Have you
found Bates?"

"No, I haven't," Venner said; "but he seems to have been discovered. I bought this paper just
now in Piccadilly, but I have not been able to look at it yet. It is stated here that the mystery
has been solved."

"Hand it over," Gurdon cried excitedly. "Let's see if we can find it. Ah! here we are. The
Press Association has just received a letter which appears to come from Mr. Bates himself.
He says he is very much annoyed at all this fuss and bother in the papers, about his so-called
kidnapping. He goes on to say that he was called to the Continent by pressing business, and
that he had not even time to tell his servants he was going, as it was imperatively necessary
that he should catch the midnight boat to Dieppe. The correspondent of the Press Association
says that Mr. Bates has been interviewed by a foreign journalist, who is absolutely certain
as to his identity. Moreover, an official has called at Mr. Bates' residence and found that
his servants have had a letter from their master instructing them to join him at once, as he
has let his house furnished for the next two months. Well, my dear man, that seems to be very
satisfactory, and effectually disposes of the idea that Mr. Bates has been mysteriously kidnapped.
I am rather sorry for this in a way, because it upsets all our theories and makes it necessary
to begin our task all over again."

"I don't believe a word of it," Venner said. "I believe it's a gigantic bluff. I was coming
to see you to-night in any case, but after buying that paper I came on here post haste. Now
that story of the Press Association strikes me as being decidedly thin. Here is a man living
comfortably at home who suddenly disappears in a most mysterious manner, and nothing is heard
of him for some time. Directly the public began to regard it as a fascinating mystery and the
miscreants realising what a storm they were likely to stir up, the man himself writes and says
that it is all a mistake. Now, if he had come back and shown himself, it would have been quite
another matter. Instead of doing that, he writes a letter from abroad, or sends a telegram
or something of that kind, saying that he has been called away on urgent business. That might
pass easily enough, but mark what follows. He writes to his servants asking them to join him
at once in some foreign town because he has let his house for two months, and the new tenant
wishes to get in without delay. Did ever anybody hear anything so preposterous? Just as if
a man would let a house in that break-neck fashion without giving his servants due warning.
The thing is not to be thought of."

"Then you think the servants have been lured away on a fools' errand?" Gurdon asked. "You don't
think there is anybody in the house?"

"Oh, yes, I do," Venner said drily. "I have a very strong opinion that there are people in
the house, and I also have a pretty shrewd idea as to who they are. It happens, also, that
I am in a position to test my theory without delay."

"How do you propose to do that?" Gurdon asked.

"Quite easily. After I left you this afternoon I went back to the agent and succeeded in obtaining
possession of the keys of the empty house in Portsmouth Square. My excuse was that I wanted
to go into detail and to take measurements and the like. I need not remind you that Bates'
house is next door to the empty one. In fact, there is no question that both houses belong
to the same person. You will remember, also, the mysterious way in which that furniture vanished
from the scene of your adventure."

"I remember," Gurdon said grimly. "But all the same I don't quite see what you are driving at."

"The thing is quite plain. That furniture did not vanish through the prosaic medium of a van,
nor was it carted through the front door from one house to the other. The two houses communicated
in some way, and it will be our business to find the door. As I have the keys and every legitimate
excuse for being on the premises, we can proceed to make our investigations without the slightest
secrecy, and without the least fear of awkward questions being asked. Now do you follow me?"

"I follow you fast enough. I suppose your game is to try and get into the next house by means
of the door?"

"You have hit it exactly," Venner said. "That is precisely what I mean to do. We shall find
it necessary to discover the identity of Mr. Bates' tenant."

"When are we going to make the experiment?" Gurdon asked.

"We are going to make it now," Venner replied. "We will have a cab as far as the Empire Hotel,
so that I can get the keys. After that, the thing will be quite easy. Come along, and thank
me for an exciting evening's adventure. I shall be greatly surprised if it is not even more
exciting than the last occasion."

They were in the empty house at last. The windows were closed and shuttered, so that it was
possible to use matches in the various rooms without attracting attention from the outside.
But search how they would, for upwards of two hours, they could find no trace whatever of a
means of communication between the two houses. They tapped the walls and sounded the skirtings,
but without success. Venner paced the floor of the drawing-room moodily, racking his brains
to discover a way out of the difficulty.

"It must be here somewhere," he muttered. "I am sure all that furniture was moved backwards
and forwards through some door, and a wide one at that."

"Then it must be on the ground floor," Gurdon remarked. "When you come to think of it, some
of that furniture was so heavy and massive that it would not go through an ordinary doorway,
neither could it have been brought upstairs without the assistance of two or three men of great
strength. We shall have to look for it in the hall; if we don't find it there, we shall have
to give it up as a bad job and try some other plan."

"I am inclined to think you are right," Venner said. "Let us go down and see. At any rate,
there is one consolation. If we fail to-night we can come again to-morrow."

Gurdon did not appear to be listening. He strode resolutely down the stairs into the hall and
stood for some moments contemplating the panels before him. The panels were painted white;
they were elaborately ornamented with wreaths of flowers after the Adams' style of decoration.
Then it seemed to Gurdon that two pairs of panels, one above and one below, had at one time
taken the formation of a doorway. He tapped on one of the panels, and the drumming of his fingers
gave out a hollow sound. Gurdon tapped again on the next panel, but hardly any sound came in
response. He looked triumphantly at Venner.

"I think we have got it at last," he said. "Do you happen to have a knife in your pocket? Unless
I am greatly mistaken, the decorations around these panels come off like a bead. If you have
a knife with you we can soon find out."

Venner produced a small knife from his pocket, and Gurdon attempted to insinuate the point
of the blade under the elaborate moulding. Surely enough, the moulding yielded, and presently
came away in Gurdon's hands.

"There you are," he said. "It is exactly as I told you. I thought at first that those mouldings
were plaster, but you can see for yourself now that they are elaborately carved wood."

Venner laid the ornament aside and stood watching Gurdon with breathless interest while the
latter attacked another of the mouldings. They came away quite easily, pointing to the fact
that they must have been removed before within a very short period. Once they were all cleared
away, Gurdon placed the point of the knife behind one of the panels, and it came away in his
hands, disclosing beyond a square hole quite large enough for anybody to enter. Here was the
whole secret exposed.

"Exactly what I thought," Gurdon said. "If I removed all the mouldings from the other three
panels there would be space enough here to drive a trap through. I think we have been exceedingly
lucky to get to the bottom of this. How clever and ingeniously the whole thing has been managed!
However, I don't think there is any occasion for us to worry about moving any more of the panels,
seeing that we can get through now quite easily. Wouldn't it be just as well to put all the
lights out?"

"I haven't thought of that," Venner muttered. "On the whole, it would be exceedingly injudicious
not to extinguish all the lights. We had better go on at once, I think, and get it over."

The house was reduced to darkness, and very quietly and cautiously the two adventurers crept
through the panel. They were in the hall on the other side, of which fact there was no doubt,
for they stepped at once off a marble floor on to a thick rug which deadened the sound of their
footsteps. They had, naturally enough, expected to find the whole place in darkness, and the
tenant of the house and his servants in bed. This, on the whole, would be in their favor, for
it would enable them to take all the observations they required with a minimum chance of being
disturbed.

A surprise awaited them from the first. True, the hall was in darkness, and, as far as they
could judge, so was the rest of the house. But from somewhere upstairs came the unmistakable
sound of a piano, and of somebody singing in a sweet but plaintive soprano voice. Gurdon clutched
his companion by the arm.

"Don't you think it is just possible that we have made a mistake?" he whispered. "Isn't it
quite on the cards that this is a genuine affair, and that we are intruding in an unwarrantable
manner upon some respectable private citizen? I am bound to say that that beautiful voice does
not suggest crime to me."

"We must go on now," Venner said, impatiently. "It won't do to judge by appearances. Let us
go up the stairs and see what is going on for ourselves. If we are intruding, we will get away
as speedily as possible."

Gurdon made no further objection, and together they crept up the stairs. There was no chance
of their being surprised from behind by the servants, for they had taken good care to notice
that the basement was all in darkness. They were getting nearer and nearer now to the sound
of the music, which appeared to come from the drawing-room, the door of which was widely enough
open for the brilliant light inside to illuminate the staircase. A moment later the music ceased,
and someone was heard to applaud in a hoarse voice.

"Sing some more," the voice said. "Now don't be foolish, don't begin to cry again. Confound
the girl, she makes me miserable."

"Do you recognise the voice?" Venner whispered.

"Lord! yes," was Gurdon's reply. "Why, it's Fenwick. No mistaking those tones anywhere. Now,
what on earth does all this mean?"

"We shall find out presently," Venner said. "You may laugh at me, but I quite expected something
of this kind, which was one of the reasons why I obtained the keys of the house."

"It's a most extraordinary thing," Gurdon replied. "Now isn't this man--Fenwick--one of the
last persons in the world you would credit with a love of music?"

"I don't know," Venner said. "You never can tell. But don't let's talk. We are here more to
listen than anything else. I wish we could get a glimpse of the singer."

"I am going to," Gurdon declared. "Unless I am greatly mistaken, I have made a discovery, too.
Oh, I am not going to take any risk. Do you see that mirror opposite the door? It strikes me
if I get close enough to look into it that I shall be able to see who is in the room without
betraying my presence."

So saying, Gurdon crept forward till he was close enough to the mirror to get a very good idea
of the room and its occupants. He could see a pale figure in white standing by a piano; he
could see that Fenwick was sprawling in a big armchair, smoking a large cigar. Then he noticed
that the girl crossed the floor and laid a slim hand half timidly, half imploringly, on Fenwick's
shoulder.

"Why are you so unkind to me?" she said. "Why so cruel? How many times have you promised me
that you will bring him back to me again? I get so tired of waiting, I feel so sad and weary,
and at times my mind seems to go altogether."

"Have patience," Fenwick said. "If you will only wait a little longer he will come back to
you right enough. Now go to the piano and sing me another song before I go to bed. Do you hear
what I say?"

The last words were harshly uttered; the girl reeled back as if fearing a blow. Gurdon standing
there clenched his fists impulsively; he had considerable difficulty in restraining himself.

"Very well," she said; "just one more, and then I will go to bed, for I am so tired and weary."

Once more the sweet pathetic voice rang out in some simple song; the words gradually died away,
and there was silence. Gurdon had barely time to slip back to the head of the stairs before
the girl came out and made her way to the landing above. Standing just below the level of the
floor, Venner gazed eagerly at the pretty tired face and mournful blue eyes. He grasped his
companion by the arm in a grip that was almost painful.

"We are getting to it," he said. "It was a good night's work coming here to-night. Do you mean
to say you don't notice the likeness? Making due allowance for the difference in height and
temperament, that poor girl is the image of my wife."

"I must have been a dolt not to have noticed it before," Gurdon said. "Now that you mention
it, the likeness is plain enough. My dear fellow, can't you see in this a reason for your wife's
reticence in speaking of the past?"

There was no time to reply, for the sinister evil face of Fenwick appeared in the doorway,
and he called aloud in Spanish some hoarse command, which was answered from above by someone,
in the same language. Gurdon whispered to his companion, with a view to ascertaining what had
been said.

"You will see for yourself in a minute," Venner said in an excited whisper. "You are going
to have another surprise. You wanted to know just now what had become of Bates. Unless I am
greatly mistaken, you will be able to judge for yourself in a few moments. I believe the man
to be a prisoner in his own house."

CHAPTER XIII

THE WHITE LADY AGAIN

It was perhaps an imprudent thing for the two friends to remain there, exposed as they were
to the danger of discovery at any moment; but, so completely were they fascinated by what was
going on about them, that they had flung caution to the winds. One thing was in their favor,
however; there was not much likelihood of their being attacked from below, seeing that all
the servants had gone to bed; unless, perhaps, some late comer entered the house. Still, the
risk had to be run, and so they stood there together, waiting for the next move. It was Venner
who spoke first.

"I cannot get over the extraordinary likeness of that girl to my wife," he said. "Is she anything
like the woman you saw next door? I mean the poor half-demented creature who happened to come
into the room when you were talking with the owner?"

"Why, of course, it is the same girl," Gurdon replied.

"Then I am sure she is Vera's sister. I'll ask her about it the first time I have an opportunity.
Be silent and get a little lower down the stairs. There is somebody coming from the top of
the house. We can see here without being seen."

Assuredly there were sounds emanating from the top of the house. A voice was raised in angry
expostulation, followed by other voices morose and threatening. As far as the listeners could
judge, two men were dragging a third down the stairs against his will. But for that, the house
was deadly silent; the watchers could hear the jingle of a passing cab bell, a belated foot
passenger whistled as he went along. It seemed almost impossible to believe that so close to
light and law and order and the well-being of the town a strange tragedy like this should be
in progress; hidden from the eye of London, by mere skill of brick and mortar, this strange
thing was going on. Venner wondered to himself how many such scenes were taking place in London
at the same moment.

But he had not much time for his meditation, for the shuffling of feet came closer. There were
no more sounds of expostulation now; only the heavy breathing of three people, as if the captive
had ceased to struggle and was making but a passive resistance. Then there emerged on the landing
the figure of the handsome cripple with a guardian on either side. His face was no longer distorted
with pain; rather was it white with an overpowering anger--his eyes shone like points of flame.
On his right side Venner and Gurdon recognised the figure of the man in the list slippers--the
man who had been handling the sovereigns in Fenwick's rooms. His comrade was a stranger, though
of the same type, and it seemed to Venner that anyone would have been justified in repudiating
either of them as an acquaintance. It was perfectly evident that the cripple came against his
will, though he was struggling no longer. Probably the condition of his emaciated frame had
rendered the task of his captors an easy one. They dragged him, limp and exhausted, into the
drawing-room where Fenwick was seated and they stood in the doorway awaiting further instructions.

"You needn't stay there," Fenwick growled. "If I want you I can call. You had better go back
to your cards again."

The two men disappeared up the stairs, and just for a moment there was silence in the drawing-room.
It was safe for Venner and his companion now to creep back to the drawing-room door and take
a careful note of what was going on. With the aid of a friendly mirror on the opposite side
of the room, it was possible to see and note everything. The cripple had fallen into a chair,
where he sat huddled in a heap, his hand to his head, as if some great physical pain racked
him. His heavy breathing was the only sound made, except the steady puffing of Fenwick's cigar.
A fit of anger gripped Venner for the moment; he would have liked to step in and soundly punish
Fenwick for his brutality. Doubtless the poor crippled frame was racked with the pain caused
by the violence of his late captors.

But under that queer exterior was a fine spirit. Gradually the cripple ceased to quiver and
palpitate; gradually he pulled himself up in his chair and faced his captor. His face was still
deadly white, but it was hard and set now; there was no sign of fear about him. He leaned forward
and stared Fenwick between the eyes.

"Well, you scoundrel," he said in a clear, cold voice, "I should like to know the meaning of
this. I have heard of and read of some strange outrages in my time, but to kidnap a man and
keep him prisoner in his own house is to exceed all the bounds of audacity."

"You appear to be annoyed," Fenwick said. "Perhaps you have not already learned who I am?"

"I know perfectly well who you are," the cripple responded. "Your name is Mark Fenwick, and
you are one of the greatest scoundrels unhung. At present, you are posing as an American millionaire.
Fools may believe you, but I know better. The point is, do you happen to know who I am?"

"Yes, I know who you are," Fenwick said with a sardonic smile. "You elect to call yourself
Mr. Bates, or some such name, and you pretend to be a recluse who gives himself over to literary
pursuits. As a matter of fact, you are Charles Le Fenu, and your father was, at one time, the
practical owner of the Four Finger Mine."

"We are getting on," Venner whispered. "It may surprise you to hear this, but I have suspected
it for some little time. The so-called absent owner of these houses is the man sitting opposite
Fenwick there. Now do you begin to see something like daylight before you? I wouldn't have
missed this for worlds."

"We have certainly been lucky," Gurdon replied.

There was no time for further conversation, for the cripple was speaking again. His voice was
still hard and cold, nor did his manner betray the slightest sign of fear.

"So you have found that out," he said. "You know that I am the son of the unfortunate Frenchman
who was murdered by a rascally Dutchman at your instigation. You thought that once having discovered
the secret of the mine you could work it to your own advantage. How well you worked it your
left hand testifies."

The jeer went home to Fenwick, his yellow face flushed, and he half rose from his chair with
a threatening gesture.

"Oh, you can strike me," the cripple said. "I am practically helpless as far as my lower limbs
are concerned, and it would be just the sort of cowardly act that would gratify a dirty little
soul like yours. It hurts me to sit here, helpless and useless, knowing that you are the cause
of all my misfortunes; knowing that, but for you, I should be as straight and strong as the
best of them. And yet you are not safe--you are going to pay the penalty of your crime. Have
you had the first of your warnings yet?"

Fenwick started in his seat; in the looking-glass the watchers could see how ghastly his face
had grown.

"I don't know what you mean," he muttered.

"Liar!" the cripple cried. "Paltry liar! Why, you are shaking from head to foot now--your face
is like that of a man who stands in the shadow of the gallows."

"I repeat, I don't know what you mean," Fenwick said.

"Oh, yes, you do. When your accomplice Van Fort foully murdered my father, you thought that
the two of you would have the mine to yourselves; you thought you would work it alone as my
father did, and send your ill-gotten gains back to England. That is how the murdered man accomplished
it, that is how he made his fortune--and you were going to do the same thing, both of you.
When you had made all your arrangements you went down to the coast on certain business, leaving
the rascally Dutchman behind. He was quite alone in the mine, there was no one within miles
of that secret spot. And yet he vanished. Van Fort was never heard of again. The message of
his fingers was conveyed to his wife, for she was implicated in the murder of my father, and
how she suffered you already know. But you are a brave man--I give you all the credit for that.
You went back to the mine again, determined not to be deterred by what had happened. What happened
to you, I need not go into. Shall I tell the story, or will you be content with a recollection
of your sufferings? It is all the same to me."

"You are a bold man," Fenwick cried. He was trembling with the rage that filled him. "You are
a bold man to defy me like this. Nobody knows that I am here, nobody knows that you are back
in your own house again. I could kill you as you sit there, and not a soul would suffer for
the crime."

The cripple laughed aloud; he seemed to be amused at something.

"Really!" he sneered. "Such cheap talk is wasted upon me. Besides, what would you gain by so
unnecessary a crime, and how much better off would you be? You know as well as I do, disguise
it as you will, that the long arm has reached for you across five thousand miles of sea, and
that, when the time comes, you will be stricken down here in London as surely and inevitably
as if you had remained in Mexico under the shadow of the mountains. The dreadful secret is
known to a few, in its entirety it is even unknown to me. I asked you just now if you had received
the first of your messages, and you denied that you knew what I meant. You actually had the
effrontery to deny it to me, sitting opposite to you as I am, and looking straight at the dreadful
disfigurement of your left hand. For over three centuries the natives of Mexico worked the
Four Finger Mine till only two of the tribe who knew its secret remained. Then it was that
my father came along. He was a brave man, and an adventurer to his finger tips. Moreover, he
was a doctor. His healing art made those rough men his friends, and when their time came, my
father was left in possession of the mine. How that mine was guarded and how the spirit of
the place took its vengeance upon intruders, you know too well. Ah, I have touched you now."

Fenwick had risen, and was pacing uneasily up and down the room. All the dare-devil spirit
seemed to have left the man for a moment; he turned a troubled face on the cripple huddled
in his chair. He seemed half inclined to temporise, and then, with a short laugh, he resumed
his own seat again.

"You seem to be very sure of your ground," he sneered.

"I am," the cripple went on. "What does it matter what becomes of a melancholy wreck like myself?
Doctors tell me that in time I may become my old self again, but in my heart I doubt it, and
as sure as I sit here the mere frame-work of a human being, my injuries are due to you. I might
have had you shot before now, or I might even have done it myself, but I spared you. It would
have been a kindness to cut your life short, but I had another use for you than that. And now,
gradually, but surely, the net is closing in around you, though you cannot yet see its meshes,
and you are powerless to prevent the inevitable end."

"You seem to have mapped it all out," Fenwick replied. "You seem to have settled it all to
your own satisfaction, but you forget that I may have something to say in the matter. When
I discovered, as I did quite by accident, that you were in London, I laid my plans for getting
you into my hands. It suits me very well, apart from the criminal side of it, to hide myself
in your house, but that is not all. I am in a position now to dictate terms, and you have nothing
else to do but to listen. I am prepared to spare your life on one condition. Now kindly follow
me carefully."

"I am listening," the cripple said, coldly. "If you were not the blind fool you seem to be
you would know that there could be no conditions between us; but go on. Let me hear what you
have to say."

"I am coming to that. I want you to tell me where I can find Felix Zary."

Suddenly, without the slightest premonition, the cripple burst into a hearty laugh. He rocked
backward and forward in a perfect ecstasy of enjoyment; for the moment, at any rate, he might
have been on the very best of terms with his companion.

"Oh, that is what you are driving at?" he said. "So you think that if you could get Felix Zary
out of the way you would be absolutely safe? Really, it is marvellous how an otherwise clever
man could be so blind to the true facts of the case. My good sir, I will give you Zary's address
with pleasure."

Fenwick was obviously puzzled. Perhaps it was beginning to dawn upon him that he had a man
of more than ordinary intellect to grapple with. He looked searchingly at the cripple, who
was leaning back with eyes half closed.

"Hang me, if I can understand you," he muttered. "I am in imminent danger of my life, though
I should be safe enough if Felix Zary and yourself were out of the way."

"And you are quite capable of putting us out of the way," the cripple said, gently. "Is not
that so, my friend?"

"Aye, I could, and I would," Fenwick said in a fierce whisper. "If you were both dead I could
breathe freely; I could go to bed at night feeling sure that I should wake in the morning.
Nothing could trouble me then. As to that accursed mine, I have done with it. Never again do
I plant my foot in Mexico."

"Fool that you are!" the cripple said in tones of infinite pity. "So you think that if Zary
and myself were out of the way you might die eventually in your bed honored and respected of
men? I tell you, never! The vengeance is upon you, it is following you here, it is close at
hand now. You have already had your warning. Perhaps, for all I know to the contrary, you may
have had your second warning; that you have had one, your face told me eloquently enough a
few moments ago. I am quite sure that a little quiet reflection will show you the absurdity
of keeping me a prisoner in my own house. Of course, I know I am entirely in your hands, and
that you may keep me here for weeks if you choose. It will be very awkward for me, because
I have important business on hand."

"I know your important business," Fenwick sneered. "Everything that goes in your favor will
naturally spell disaster to me. As I told you before, it was only an accident that told me
where you were; indeed, so changed are you that I should not have recognised you if I had met
you in the street. No, on the whole, you will stay where you are."

At this point Venner clutched Gurdon's arm and dragged him hurriedly across the landing down
to the half staircase. So quickly was this done that Gurdon had no time to ask the reason for
it all.

"Someone coming down the stairs," Venner whispered. "Didn't you hear a voice? I believe it
is the girl in white again."

Surely enough, looking upward, they could see the slim white figure creeping down the stairs.
The girl was crooning some little song to herself as she came along. She turned into the drawing-room
and called aloud to the cripple in the chair. With an oath on his lips, Fenwick motioned her away.

CHAPTER XIV

MASTER OF THE SITUATION

"What have you come back here for?" Fenwick demanded. "You said you were tired, and that you
were going to bed, long ago."

The girl looked dreamily about her; it was some little time before she appeared to appreciate
the significance of Fenwick's question. She was more like one who walks in her sleep than a
human being in the full possession of understanding.

"I don't know," she said, helplessly. She rubbed her eyes as if there had been mist before
them. "I was so tired that I lay on the bed without undressing, and I fell fast asleep. Then
I had a dream. I dreamed that all the miserable past was forgotten, and that Charles was with
me once more. Then he seemed to call me, and I woke up. Oh, it was such a vivid dream, so vivid,
that I could not sleep again! I was so restless and anxious, that I made up my mind to come
downstairs, and, as I was passing a door just now, it opened, and the face of Charles looked
out. It was only for a moment, then two men behind him dragged him back and the door closed
once more."

"A foolish fancy," Fenwick growled.

"It was not," the girl cried almost passionately. "I tried the door a moment later, and it
was locked. I tell you that Charles is in that room. I cannot go to bed again until I am certain
of the truth. Oh, why do you keep me in suspense like this?"

"Mad," Fenwick muttered. "Mad as a March hare. Why don't you send her to an asylum?"

"She is not mad," the cripple said in a curiously hard voice. "Something tells me that she
has made a discovery. You rascal, is it possible that you have Charles Evors under this roof?"

Fenwick laughed, but there was something uneasy and strained about his mirth. He glanced defiantly
at the cripple, then his eyes dropped before the latter's steady gaze.

"Why should I worry about Evors?" he asked. "The man is nothing to me, and if by chance--"

The rest of Fenwick's sentence was drowned in a sudden uproar which seemed to break out in
a room overhead. The tense silence was broken by the thud of heavy blows as if someone were
banging on a door, then came muttered shouts and yells of unmistakable pain. Hastily Fenwick
rose from his seat and made in the direction of the door. He had hardly advanced two steps
before he found himself confronted with the rim of a silver-plated revolver, which the cripple
was holding directly in the line of his head.

"Sit down," the latter said tersely. "Sit down, or, as sure as I am a living man, I'll fire.
I could say that I fired the shot in self-defence, and when the whole story comes to be told
I have no fear that a jury would disbelieve me. Besides, there is nothing to be afraid of.
Those sounds don't come from the police trying to force their way into the house. On the contrary,
it seems to me that some of your parasites are having a misunderstanding over their cards.
At any rate, you are not to move. If you do, there will be an end once and for all of the millionaire
Mark Fenwick. Sit down, my child--you are trembling from head to foot."

"It was his voice," the girl cried. "I am certain that it was Charles who called out just now."

Once more the shouts and cries broke out, once more came that banging on the panels, followed
by a splitting crash, after which the uproar doubled. Evidently a door had given way and the
conflict was being fought out on the stairs.

"Shall we go and take a hand?" Gurdon whispered excitedly. "Murder might be going on here."

"I think we had better risk it a little longer," was Venner's cautious reply. "After all is
said and done, we must not make ourselves too prominent. If necessary we will take a hand,
but, unless I am greatly mistaken, the prisoner upstairs has got the better of his captors.
Ah, I thought so."

The sound of strife overhead suddenly ceased after two smashing blows, in which evidently a
man's clenched fist had come in contact with naked flesh. There was a groan, the thud of a
falling body, and the man in the list slippers came rolling down the stairs. He was followed
a moment later by a young clean-shaven man dressed in a grey Norfolk suit. His frame suggested
power and strength, though his face was white like that of one who is just recovering from
a long illness. He was breathing very hard, but otherwise he did not appear to have suffered
much in the struggle out of which he had emerged in so victorious a fashion. He made his way
direct to the drawing-room, and immediately a woman's voice uprose in a long wailing cry.

"I'd give something to see that," Venner whispered. "Only I am afraid we can't do anything
until the man in the list slippers comes to his senses and takes himself off. There is another
one coming now. He doesn't look much better off than his colleague."

Another man crept down the stairs, swaying as he came and holding on to the balusters. He had
a tremendous swelling over his left eye and a terrible gash in his lip, from which the blood
was flowing freely. Altogether he presented a terrible aspect as he bent over the prostrate
form of his unconscious companion.

"Here, get up, wake up," he said. "What are you lying there for? He'll be out of the house
before we can turn round, and what will the governor say then?"

The man in the slippers gradually assumed a sitting position and stared stupidly about him.
A hearty kick in the ribs seemed to restore him to some measure of consciousness.

"Don't ask me," he said. "I never saw anything like it. Here's a chap who has been in bed on
and off for months coming out in this unexpected manner and knocking us about as if we had
been ninepins. What's become of him, I should like to know?"

"What are you two ruffians doing there?" came Fenwick's voice from the drawing-room. "Go back
to your room, and I will send for you when I want you."

The men slunk back again, probably by no means sorry to be out of further trouble. No sooner
had they disappeared than the two friends stood in the entrance to the door of the drawing-room
once more. The friendly mirror again stood them in good stead, for by its aid they watched
as dramatic and thrilling a picture as ever was presented on any stage.

The young man in the Norfolk suit stood there side by side with the girl in white. He had his
arm about her waist. She clung to him, with her head upon his shoulder; there were words of
endearment on her lips. Just for the moment she seemed to have forgotten that they were not
alone; all the world might have been made for herself and her lover. For the moment, too, the
dreamy look had left her face, and she no longer conveyed the impression to a stranger's eyes
that she was suffering from some form of insanity. She was alert and vigorous once more.

"Oh, I knew that you would come back to me," she said. "I knew that you were not dead, for
all they told me so. How cruel they were to tell me these things--"

"Stop," the cripple cried. "It sounds cruel and heartless for me to have to interfere just
now, but I must insist that you go back to your room, Beth. Back at once."

"Can't I stay a little longer?" the girl pleaded. "It is such a long time since Charles and I--"

"No, no, you must do as I tell you. It will be far better in the long run. We are only two
men against three, and there may be others concealed in the house for all I know. For myself,
I am perfectly helpless, and Charles looks as if he had just come from the grave. Evidently
his struggles have tried him."

"Well, I must confess, I am feeling rather down," Charles Evors said. "I could not stand it
any longer, and I made a dash for liberty. Goodness knows how long I have been in the hands
of those men; and how long they have kept me under the influence of drugs. I suppose the supply
fell short. Anyway, I had just sense enough to take advantage of my first opportunity. You
can explain all to me presently, but the mere fact of Fenwick being here is enough to tell
me who is at the bottom of this business."

Fenwick placed his fingers to his lips and whistled shrilly. Almost immediately sounds of footsteps
broke out overhead, and a door opened somewhere with a loud crash. The cripple turned to the
girl, who had crept reluctantly as far as the doorway.

"Now listen to me," he said quickly. "Listen and act quickly. Go downstairs into the street
and bring here the first policeman you can find. Tell him a violent quarrel has broken out
between Mr. Bates and some of his guests, and say you fear that some mischief will be done.
Do you understand me?"

The girl nodded quickly. Evidently she quite understood. She disappeared so suddenly that Venner
and Gurdon had barely time to get out of her way. They heard the street door open--they were
conscious of the sudden draught rushing up the stairs; the sound of passing cabs was distinctly
audible.

The girl had hardly time to get outside before three or four men came down the stairs. They
rushed headlong into the drawing-room, where they seemed to pause, no doubt deterred in their
violence for a moment by the sight of the cripple's revolver.

"Here's our chance," Gurdon whispered. "The girl will be back with the police in two minutes,
and we have heard quite enough to know the ingenious scheme which is uppermost in the cripple's
mind. Let's lock them in. Don't you see that the key is in on this side of the door? Turn it
quickly."

"Good business," Gurdon chuckled as he snapped the key in the lock. "Now they can fight as
long as they like. At any rate, they can't do much mischief so long as they are caged in there."

A din of mingled voices came from the other side of the door, followed quickly by the whiplike
crack of a revolver shot. Then someone tried the door and yelled aloud that it was locked.
Fists battered violently on the panels, and just as the din was at its height the helmets of
two policemen appeared mounting the stairs. Venner stepped coolly forward as if he had every
right to be there.

"I'm glad you officers have come," he said. "There seems to be something in the nature of a
free fight going on here. We took the liberty of turning in as the door was open to see what
had happened. You had better go in yourself."

The policeman tried the door, which, naturally, did not yield to his hand, and he called out
to those inside to open in the name of the law. A voice on the other side pleaded that the
door was locked. Venner turned the key in the door.

"Probably the young lady had the sense to lock them in," he said. "You had better go inside,
officer. No, there is no reason why we should accompany you. As a matter of fact our presence
here is more or less an intrusion."

The policemen stepped into the room and demanded to know what was the matter. They could see
the master of the house sitting there in his chair, with a tall young man in a Norfolk suit
by his side, and opposite him Fenwick, flushed and sullen, with his satellites behind him.
There were four of them altogether, and the appearance they made was by no means attractive,
seeing that two at least of them were showing unmistakable signs of violence.

It was the cripple who first recovered his self-possession.

"I am sorry to trouble you," he said, "but I am afraid we have rather forgotten ourselves.
You know me, of course?"

"Oh, yes, sir," the first officer replied. "You are Mr. Bates, the gentleman who is supposed
to have been kidnapped the other night; the inspector told me that you were still on the Continent."

"Well, I am not," the cripple said curtly. "I am back home again, as you can see with your
own eyes. The gentleman over there with the yellow face is Mr. Mark Fenwick, the well-known
millionaire. I daresay you have heard of him."

Both officers touched their hats respectfully; they had probably come here prepared to make
more than one arrest and thus cover themselves with comparative glory; but the mere mention
of Fenwick's name settled that point once and for all.

"As you are probably aware," the cripple went on, "until quite recently Mr. Fenwick was staying
at the Great Empire Hotel, but the place was too public for one of his gentle and retiring
disposition, and so he made arrangements to take my house furnished, though the understanding
was that nobody should know anything about it, and nobody would have known anything about it
but for the fact that in the way of business Mr. Fenwick had to consult these other gentlemen.
Perhaps they don't look in the least like it, but they are all American capitalists, having
made their money by gold mining. They don't look a very attractive lot, officer, but if you
knew them as well as I do you would learn to love them for their many engaging qualities, and
their purity of heart."

The officers touched their helmets again, and appeared to be undecided in their minds as to
whether the cripple was chaffing them or not. But though his voice had a certain playfulness
of tone, his face was quite grave and steadfast.

"Very well, sir," the foremost of the constables said. "I understand that neither of you gentlemen
desires to make any charge against the other. I shall have to make a note of this."

"Of course you will," the cripple said sweetly. "Now I appeal to Mr. Fenwick and his companions
as to whether or not the whole thing has not been a silly misunderstanding. You see, officer,
gold mining is rather a thirsty business, and occasionally leads to rather more champagne than
is good for one. I can only apologise to my tenant, Mr. Fenwick, for losing my temper, and
I will at once rid him of my presence. It is getting very late, and I can come round in the
morning and make my peace here. As I am a little lame, I will ask one of you officers to give
me your arm. Charles, will you be good enough to give me your arm also? I wish you good-night,
Mr. Fenwick. In fact, I wish all of you good-night. I shall not fail to call round in the morning--"

"But you are not going," Fenwick cried in dismay. "You are not going away from your own house
at this time of night?"

"You forget," the cripple said, gravely, "that for the time being you are my tenant, and that
I have no more right in this house, indeed, not so much right, as one of these policemen. I
have sent my servants away, and I am at present staying--in fact, it does not matter much where
I am staying. Come along."

The trap was so neatly laid and so coolly worked that Fenwick could only sit and gasp in his
chair, while his two victims walked quietly away in the most natural manner in the world.

"We had better be off," Gurdon whispered. "There is no occasion for us to stay any longer.
Let us follow the cripple. By Jove, I never saw anything done more neatly than that!"

CHAPTER XV

FELIX ZARY

It would have been a comparatively easy matter for the two friends to have slipped out of the
house before the cripple came down the stairs accompanied by the young man who called himself
Charles Evors. The front door was still open, and there was no one to bar their way. Then it
suddenly occurred to Gurdon that by so doing they would betray the secret of the moveable panel
which communicated with the house next door.

"It would never do to go away like this," he said, hurriedly. "Besides, it is more than likely
that we shall want to use that entrance again. We shall have to run the risk of losing sight
of the cripple; anything is better than leaving that panel open for the servants to discover
in the morning."

Venner could see for himself at once that there was no help for it, so without any further
discussion on the matter, the two men hurried down the stairs, their feet making no noise on
the thick carpet, and then they darted through the hole into the house next door. It was only
the work of a moment to replace the panel, but hardly had they done so before they heard a
confused murmur of voices on the other side. Gurdon pressed his back to the panel until the
noise of the voices ceased.

"That was a pretty close call," he said. "Give me the mouldings and I will try to make them
secure without any unnecessary noise. I daresay we can get the nails to fit the same holes.
Anyway, there must be no hammering, or we shall be pretty sure to rouse the suspicions of the
people next door."

It was perhaps fortunate that the mouldings fitted so well, for Gurdon managed to work the
nails into the original holes and complete a more or less workmanlike job to his own satisfaction.
Certainly, anybody who was not in the secret would never have detected anything wrong with
the panels or imagined for a moment that they had been so recently moved.

"That's a good job well done," Venner said.

"Yes, but what do you do it for? In fact, what are you two gentlemen doing here at all?"

The voice came with a startling suddenness. It was an exceedingly clear, melodious voice, yet
with a steely ring in it. The two friends wheeled round sharply to find themselves face to
face with an exceedingly tall individual, whose length was almost grotesquely added to by the
amazing slimness of his figure. In that respect he was not at all unlike the type of human
skeleton which one generally expects to find in a travelling circus, or some show of that kind.
The man, moreover, was dressed in deep black, which added to his solemnity. He had an exceedingly
long, melancholy face, on both sides of which hung a mass of oily-looking black hair; his nose,
too, was elongated and thin, and a long drooping moustache concealed his mouth. On the whole
his appearance was redeemed from the grotesque by an extraordinary pair of black eyes, which
were round and large as those of a Persian cat. Despite the man's exceeding thinness, he conveyed
a certain suggestion of strength. At that moment he had a handkerchief between his fingers,
and Gurdon could see that his wrists were supple and pliable as if they had been made of india
rubber. Gurdon had heard that sort of hands before described as conjurer's hands. As he looked
at them he half expected to see the handkerchief disappear and an orange or apple or something
of that kind take its place. Then the stranger coolly walked across the hall and turned up
another of the lights. He seemed to be perfectly at home, and conveyed a curious impression
to the visitors that he expected to find them there.

"I beg to remind you that you have not yet answered my question," he said. "What are you doing
here?"

"Let me answer your question with another," Venner said. "Who are you, and what may you be
doing here?"

The man smiled in a peculiar fashion. His big black eyes seemed to radiate sparks; they were
luminous and full of vivid fury, though, at the same time, the long horse-like face never for
a moment lost its look of profound dejection. They might have been eyes gleaming behind a dull,
painted mask.

"We will come to that presently," he said. "For the moment the mention of my name must content
you. It is just possible that you might have heard the name of Felix Zary."

Venner and Gurdon fairly started. The name of Felix Zary was familiar to them, but only during
the last three-quarters of an hour. In fact, that was the name of the man as to whose whereabouts
Fenwick had been so anxious to hear. Here was another element in the mystery, which, up to
this moment, had not advanced very far towards solution.

"I have heard the name before," Venner said, "but only quite recently--within the last hour,
in fact."

"Oh, yes," the stranger said, "I know exactly what you mean. You probably heard it next door
when you were listening so intently to the conversation between my friend Charles Le Fenu,
the cripple, and that scoundrel who calls himself Fenwick. He is exceedingly anxious to know
where I am, though without the smallest intention of benefitting me. Before long, his curiosity
will be gratified; but not in the way he thinks."

The latter words came from the speaker's lips with a spitting hiss, such as a cat emits in
the presence of a dog. The great round black eyes added intensity to the threat, and rendered
the feline simile complete. The prophecy boded ill for Fenwick when at length he and Felix
Zary came face to face.

"I see my conjecture is quite right," the stranger went on. "And as to you gentlemen, I have
asked your names merely as a matter of courtesy. As a matter of fact I know perfectly well
who you are--you are Mr. Gerald Venner and Mr. James Gurdon. But there is one thing I don't
know, and that is why you have thrust yourself into this diabolical business. You must be brave
men, or absolutely unconscious of the terrible danger you are running. If either of you are
friends of Fenwick's--"

"Not for a moment," Venner cried. "You pay us a poor compliment indeed if you take us to be
in any way friendly with that scoundrel."

"And yet you are here," Zary went on. "You are spying on the movements of my friend, Le Fenu.
You have contrived to obtain possession of the keys of his house for no other purpose. Why?"

Venner paused before he answered the question. He did not recognise the right of this man to
put him through a cross-examination. Indeed, it seemed to him, the less he said the better.
Perhaps Zary saw something of what was going on in his mind, for his big black eyes smiled,
though the dejected visage remained the same.

"I see, you do not trust me," he said. "Perhaps you are right to be cautious. Let me ask you
another question, assuring you at the same time that I am the friend of Charles Le Fenu and
his sisters, and that if necessary I will lay down my life to save them from trouble. Tell
me, Mr. Venner, why are you so interested in saving the girl who passes for Fenwick's daughter
from her miserable position? Tell me."

Zary came a step or two closer to Venner and looked down into his face with a searching yearning
expression in those magnetic black eyes. The appeal to Venner was irresistible. The truth rose
to his lips; it refused to be kept back.

"Because," he said slowly, "because she is my wife."

A great sigh of relief came from Zary.

"I am glad of that," he said. "Exceedingly glad. And yet I had suspected something of the kind.
It is good for me to know that I am with friends, and that you two are only actuated by the
best motives. For some days now I have had you under close observation. I followed you here
to-night; indeed, I was in the house when you removed those panels. As a matter of fact, Mr.
Gurdon's first involuntary visit here absolutely ruined a carefully laid plan of mine for getting
Mark Fenwick into my hands. But I will tell you later on all about the mystery of the furnished
dining-room and how and why the furniture vanished so strangely. When I followed you here to-night
I was quite prepared to shoot you both if necessary, but some strange impulse came over me
to speak to you and ask you what you were doing. I am rather glad I did, because I should not
like to have a tragedy on my hands. Now would you like to come with me as far as my own rooms,
where I shall be in a position to throw a little light upon a dark place or two?"

Venner and Gurdon clutched eagerly at the suggestion. Without further words, they passed into
the street, and would have walked down the steps had not Zary detained them.

"One moment," he whispered. "Hang back in the shadow of the portico. Don't you see that there
are two or three men on the steps of the house next door? Ah, I can catch the tones of that
rascal Fenwick. If only that vile scoundrel knew how close to him I was at the present moment!
But let us listen. Perhaps we may hear something useful."

It was very still and quiet in the Square now, for the hour was late, and therefore the voices
from the portico came clear and distinct to the listeners' ears.

"What is the good of it?" one of the voices said. "Why on earth can't you wait till morning?
Le Fenu has got clear away, and there isn't much chance of catching him again in a hurry. It
was one of the coolest things I have seen for a long time."

"Oh, he doesn't lack brains, or pluck either," Fenwick said. "I should have been proud of a
trick like that myself. I ought to have poisoned him when I had the chance. I ought to have
got him out of the way without delay. But it seemed such a safe thing to kidnap him and hide
him in his own house, where we could go on with our work without the slightest danger or interruption
from those accursed police. And then, when Fate played into our hands and we got hold of Evors
as well, it looked as if everything was going our way. How you fools ever contrived to let
him get the upper hand of you is more than I can understand."

"It was Jones's fault," another voice growled. "He forgot the drug, and we ran clean out of
it. Then, I suppose, we got interested over a game of cards, and one way and another, Evors
managed to get six or seven hours' sleep without having any of that stuff inside him. Bless
me, if it wasn't all like a dream, guv'nor. There we were, interested in our cards, and before
we knew where we were our heads were banged together, and I was lying on the floor thinking
that the end of the world had come. That fellow has got the strength of the very devil itself."

"Poor weak creature," Fenwick sneered.

"Weak-minded, perhaps, and easily led," the first speaker said. "But there is not much the
matter with him when it comes to fists."

"We can't stop chattering here all night," Fenwick cried. "It is all very well for you men,
who don't care so long as you have something to eat and drink. You would be quite satisfied
to sit like a lot of hogs in a sty in Le Fenu's house, but he'll certainly be back in the morning
with some infernal scheme or other for getting the best of us. Don't you see it is impossible
for me any longer to play the part of a tenant of a furnished house, now that the owner of
the house is at large again? It is a very fortunate thing, too, in a way, that I can pass all
you people off as my servants. Now get away at once and do as I tell you. As for me, I am going
to take a cab as far as the old place by the side of the river. In an hour's time I hope to
be on my way to Canterbury. Now, you are quite sure you all know what to do? It's confoundedly
awkward to have one's plans upset like this, but a clever man always has an alternative scheme
on hand, and I've got mine. There, that will do. Be off at once."

"That's all very well, guv'nor," another voice said. "It is easy enough to put the door on
the latch and turn out of the crib, leaving it empty, but what about the girl in the white
dress? I ain't very scrupulous as a rule, but it seems rather cruel to leave the poor kid behind
and she not more than half right in her head."

"Devil fly away with the girl," Fenwick said passionately. "We can pick her up at any time
we want to. Besides, I think I can see a way to arrange for her and a method of getting her
out of the house within the next hour. It was no bad thing for men who get their living as
we do when some genius invented motor cars. Now do go along or we shall never finish."

The little group on the portico steps melted away, and one by one the slouching figures vanished
into the darkness. Zary stepped on to the pavement, and proceeded to open the front door of
the next house. It yielded to his touch.

"I am glad of this," he said; "and, really, we owe quite a debt of gratitude to the tender-hearted
ruffian who was averse to leaving a poor girl in this house all alone. We will spare Fenwick
the trouble of any inconvenience so far as she is concerned."

So saying, Zary proceeded to walk up the stairs, turning up the lights as he went. He called
the name of Beth softly three or four times, and presently a door opened overhead and a girl
in a white dress came out. A pleased smile spread over her face as she looked over the balusters
and noted the caller.

"Felix," she said softly, "is it really you? I have been hiding myself in my room because I
was terrified, and after Charles had gone those men quarrelled so terribly among themselves!
I suppose Charles forgot all about me in the excitement of the moment."

"Oh, no, he didn't, dear one," Zary said very gently. "He would have come back to you in any
case. But I am going to take you away from this house where you have been so miserable; I am
going to see that you are not molested in the future."

"That is all very well," Venner interposed, "but where can the young lady go? She is quite
alone and helpless, and unless you have some reputable female relation--"

"It is not a matter of my relations," Zary smiled. "Miss Beth will go to one who is her natural
protector, and one who will watch over her welfare with unceasing care. To put it quite plainly,
Miss Beth is going to the Great Empire Hotel, and you are going to take her. To-night she will
sleep under the same roof as her sister."

Venner was just a little startled by the suddenness of the proposal, yet, on the whole, the
suggestion was an exceedingly natural one, for who was better capable of looking after the
unfortunate Beth than her own sister? True, the hour was exceedingly late; but then a huge
place like the Great Empire Hotel was practically open night and day, and a request at one
o'clock in the morning that a guest in the house should be awakened to receive another guest
would be nothing in the way of a novelty.

"Very well," Venner said. "Let her put on her hat and jacket, and she can come with me at once."

CHAPTER XVI

FENWICK MOVES AGAIN

Beth raised no objection to the programme; indeed, the suggestion seemed to fill her with delight.
She would not be a moment, she said. She would put certain necessaries in a handbag, and come
back for the rest of her wardrobe on the morrow. Venner had expressed a desire that Zary should
accompany him, but the latter shook his head emphatically.

"No, no," he said; "you are going alone. As for me, I have important business on hand which
will not brook the slightest delay. Mr. Gurdon had best return to his own rooms; and, for his
own sake, I would advise him to keep in the middle of the road. You two little know the danger
you incurred when you decided to thrust your head into this hornet's nest. Now I will see you
both off the premises and put out all the lights. I may mention in passing that I have a latchkey
to this place."

A few minutes later Venner found himself walking down the deserted streets with his fair little
companion hanging on his arm. She chattered to him very prettily and daintily, but there was
a great deal in her remarks which conveyed nothing to him at all. She constantly alluded to
matters of which he was entirely ignorant, apparently taking it for granted that he was au
fait with what she was saying. It struck Venner that though not exactly mentally deficient,
she was suffering from weakness of intellect, brought about, probably, by some great shock
or terrible sorrow. On the whole, he was not sorry to find himself in the great hall of the
hotel, the lights of which were still burning, and where several guests were lounging for a
final cigar.

"I know it is exceedingly late," Venner said to the clerk, "but it is quite imperative that
this young lady should see Miss Fenwick. Will you be good enough to send up to her room and
tell her how sorry I am to disturb her at this time of night, but that the matter is exceedingly
urgent?"

"Miss Fenwick is not in, sir," came the startling response. "She went out shortly after eleven
o'clock, and she told me that she might not be back for some considerable time. You see, she
wanted to be quite sure that she could get back into the hotel at any time she returned. Oh,
no doubt she is returning, or I don't suppose for a moment that she would have asked me all
those questions."

The information was sufficiently disturbing, but there was no help for it. All they had to
do was to sit down and wait patiently till Vera came back. They were not in the least likely
to attract any attention, seeing that several men in evening dress together with their wives
were seated in the hall for a final chat after the theatre or some party or reception. In her
long white frock, partially concealed by a cloak and hood, Beth would have easily passed for
a girl fresh from a theatre or a dance. It was a long weary wait of over an hour, and Venner
was feeling distinctly anxious, when the big folding doors at the end of the hall opened and
Vera's tall, graceful figure emerged.

"Here is your sister," Venner said. There was just a stern suggestion in his voice. "Now, you
are not to cry or make any scene, you are not to attract any attention to yourself, but take
it all for granted. You can be as emotional as you please when you are alone together in your
room."

Vera came across the hall in a jaded, weary way, as if she were thoroughly tired out. Her face
flushed a little as she recognised Venner. Then she looked at his companion and almost paused,
while the blood ebbed from her face, leaving it deadly pale.

"Gerald," she whispered. "Gerald and Beth. What does it mean? What strange thing has happened
to bring you both together here."

"Don't make a scene, for goodness' sake," Venner said. "Take it as calmly as you can. Unless
you are self-possessed, your sister is sure to give way, and that is the last thing in the
world to be desired. I cannot possibly stop now to tell you all the extraordinary things which
have happened to-night. Let it be sufficient to say that it is absolutely imperative that you
give your sister shelter, and that nobody but yourself should know where she is."

"But how did you find her?" Vera asked. "And who was it suggested that you should bring her to me?"

"Let me just mention the name of Zary," Venner replied. "Oh, I can come round here to-morrow
and tell you all about it. If you think that there is any possible danger--"

"Of course there is danger," Vera said. "Mr. Fenwick may be back at any moment. He does not
know that I am aware that my sister is even alive. If he became acquainted with the fact that
we had come together again, all my plans would be absolutely ruined, and my three years of
self-sacrifice would be in vain."

"I am afraid you must run the risk now," Venner said. "At any rate, your sister will have to
stay here till the morning. It is perhaps a good thing that she does not understand what is
going on."

Apparently the girl had no real comprehension of all the anxieties and emotions of which she
was unconsciously the centre. She was holding her sister's hand now and smiling tenderly into
her face, like a child who has found a long-lost friend.

"You may rest assured on one point," Venner went on. "For the present there is not the slightest
reason to fear Fenwick. He has had a great shock to-night; all his plans have been upset, and
he finds himself in a position of considerable danger. I know for a fact that he is going straight
away to Canterbury, and probably by this time he is on his way there. According to what your
mysterious friend Zary said, he had some plan cut and dried for providing for your sister's
safety to-morrow. Now take the poor child to bed, for she is half asleep already, and when
once you have made her comfortable I want you to come down again and have a few words with
me. You need not hesitate; surely a man can talk to his wife whenever he pleases--and, besides,
there are several people here who show not the slightest signs of going to bed yet."

"Very well," Vera said. "Come along, dear, I see you are dreadfully sleepy--so sleepy that
you do not appear to recognise the sister you have met for the first time for three years."

Venner had time to smoke the best part of a cigar before Vera reappeared. They took a seat
in a secluded corner of the hall, where it was possible to talk without interruption.

"Now, please, tell me everything," the girl said.

"I am afraid that is impossible," Venner replied. "This is one of the most extraordinary and
complicated businesses that I ever heard of. In the first place, I came to England, weary and
worn out with my search for you, and half inclined to abandon it altogether. In the very last
place in the world where I expect to meet you, I come In contact with you in this hotel. I
find that you are being passed off as the daughter of one of the greatest scoundrels who ever
cheated the gallows. But that does not check my faith in you. I had kept my trust in you intact.
Ever since you left me on the day of our marriage I have had nothing but a few words to explain
your amazing conduct; and now here am I doing my best to free you from the chains that bind
you, and all the while you seem to be struggling to hug those chains about you and to baffle
all my efforts. Why do you do this? What is the secret that you conceal so carefully from the
man who would do anything to save you from trouble, from the man you profess to love? If you
do care for me--"

"Oh, I do indeed," Vera whispered. There were tears in her eyes now and her cheeks were wet.
"It is not for my own sake--it is for the sake of the poor girl upstairs. I had promised to
say nothing of that to anyone--to try and save her--and I left you and ran the risk of for
ever forfeiting your affection. But if Beth is better in the morning I will try to get her
to absolve me from my promise and induce her--"

"She is not capable of giving a promise of rescinding it," Venner said. "Don't you think it
would be far better if, instead, you discussed the matter with your brother, Charles Le Fenu?"

"So you know all about that?" Vera cried.

"Yes, I do. I have seen him to-night. Gurdon has already had an interview with him--an interview
that almost cost him his life. We have been having some pretty fine adventures the last two
or three days--but if it all ends in saving you and lifting this cloud from your life I shall
be well content. I am not going to ask you to go into explanations now, because I see they
would be distasteful to you, and because you have given some foolish promise which you are
loth to break. But tell me one thing. You said just now that you had not seen your sister for
three years, though she has been living with your brother, whom you visited quite recently."

"That is easily explained," Vera said. "It was deemed necessary to tell Beth one or two fictions
with a view to easing her mind and leaving her still with some slight shadow of hope, which
was the only means of preventing her reason from absolutely leaving her. These fictions entailed
my keeping out of the way. Beth is exceedingly different from me, as you know."

"Indeed, she is," said Venner, smiling for the first time. "But does it not strike you as an
extraordinary thing that I should be fighting in this fierce way in your behalf, and that you
should be placing negative obstacles in my way all the time? I won't worry you any more to-night,
dearest--you look tired and worn out. You had better go to your own room, and we can discuss
this matter further in the morning."

It was dark enough and sheltered enough in that secluded corner of the hall for Venner to draw
the girl towards him and kiss her lips passionately. Just for a brief moment Vera lay in her
husband's arms; then, with a little sigh, she disengaged herself and disappeared slowly up
the stairs.

She had placed Beth in her own room, which they would share together for that night, at any
rate. The younger girl was sleeping placidly; there was a smile on her face--her lips were
parted like those of one who is utterly and entirely happy. She made a fair picture as she
lay there, with her yellow hair streaming over her shoulders. She just murmured something in
her sleep, as Vera bent over her and brushed her forehead lightly with her lips.

"Oh, I wonder how long this cloud will last!" Vera murmured--"how much longer I shall be till
I am free! How terrible it is to have the offer of a good man's love, and be compelled to spoil
it as I do, or, at least, as I appear to do. And yet I should be a happy woman if I could only
throw off these shackles--"

Vera paused, unable to say more, for something seemed to rise in her throat and choke her.
She was utterly tired and worn out, almost too tired to undress and get into bed--and yet once
her head was on the pillow she could not sleep; she tossed and turned wearily. All London seemed
to be transformed into one noisy collection of clocks. The noise and the din seemed to stun
Vera and throb through her head like the beating of hammers on her brain. She fell off presently
into a troubled sleep, which was full of dreams. It seemed to her that she was locked in a
safe, and that somebody outside was hammering at the walls to let her free. Then she became
conscious of the fact that somebody really was knocking at the door. As Vera stumbled out of
bed a clock somewhere struck three. She flicked up the light and opened the door. A sleepy-looking
chambermaid handed her a note, which was marked "Urgent" on the envelope. With a thrill, she
recognised the handwriting of Mark Fenwick. What new disaster was here? she wondered.

"Is there anybody waiting for an answer?" she asked tremblingly. "Is the messenger downstairs?"

"Yes, miss," the sleepy chambermaid replied. "It was brought by a gentleman in a motor. I told
him you were in bed and fast asleep, but he said it was of the greatest importance and I was
to wake you. Perhaps you had better read it."

With a hand that trembled terribly, Vera tore open the envelope. There were only two or three
lines there in Fenwick's stiff handwriting; they were curt and discourteous, and very much
to the point. They ran as follows--

"I am writing you this from Canterbury, where I have been for the last hour, and where I have
important business. I have sent one of the cars over for you, and you are to come back at once.
Whatever happens, see that you obey me."

       *       *       *       *       *

"You will tell the gentleman I will be down in a few moments," Vera said. "I will not detain
him any longer than I can help."

"What is to be done?" the girl wondered directly she was alone. She felt that she dared not
disobey this command; she would have to go at all costs. She knew by bitter experience that
Fenwick was not the man to brook contradiction. Besides, at the present moment it would be
a fatal thing to rouse his suspicions. And yet, she felt how impossible it was for her to leave
Beth here in the circumstances. Nor could she see her way to call up Venner at this hour and
explain what had happened. All she could do was to scribble a short note to him with a view
to explaining the outline of the new situation. Ten minutes later she was downstairs in the
hall, where she found the man awaiting her. He was clad in furs, his motor cap was pulled over
his eyes as if he shrank from observation; but all the same Vera recognised him.

"So it is you, Jones," she said. "Do you know that you have been sent all the way from Canterbury
to fetch me at this time in the morning? It is perfectly monstrous that I should be dragged
out of bed like this; perfectly disgraceful!"

"I don't know anything about that, miss," the man said sullenly. "It is the guv'nor's orders,
and he gave me pretty plainly to understand that he would want to know the reason why if I
came back without you. Don't blame me."

"I'm not blaming you at all," Vera said, coldly. "Nor am I going to stand here bandying words
with you. I will just go to my room and put on a fur coat--then I shall be ready."

"Very well, miss. That's the proper way to take it. But where is the other young lady?"

Vera's heart fairly stood still for a moment. Fenwick's note had said nothing about her sister,
though this man seemed to be aware of the fact that she was here. There was only one thing
for it, and that was to lie boldly and without hesitation. She looked the speaker in the face
in blank astonishment.

"I fail to understand you," she said. "There is nobody here but me; there could be nobody here
but me. And now I have nothing further to say. One moment and I will be with you."

CHAPTER XVII

MERTON GRANGE

Vera came down a few moments later ready for her journey. Now that she had had time to think
matters over, she was looking forward with some dread to her forthcoming interview with Mark
Fenwick. Surely something out of the common must have taken place, or he would never have sent
for her at such an extraordinary time, and Vera had always one thing to contend with; she had
not forgotten, in fact, she could not forget, that for the last three years she had been engaged
in plotting steadily against the man by whose name she was known. Moreover, she was not in
the least blind to Fenwick's astuteness, and there was always the unpleasant feeling that he
might be playing with her. She had always loathed and detested this man from the bottom of
her soul; there were times when she doubted whether or not he was a relation of hers. As far
as Vera knew, he was supposed to be her mother's half-brother, and so much as this she owed
the man--he had come to her at the time when she was nearly destitute, and in no position to
turn her back on his advances. That it suited Fenwick to have a well-bred and graceful girl
about him, she knew perfectly well. But long before would she have left him, only she was quite
certain that Fenwick was at the bottom of the dreadful business which had resulted in Beth's
deplorable state of mind.

But as to all this, Vera could say nothing at the moment. All she had to do now was to guard
herself against a surprise on the part of Fenwick. She had been startled by the mere suggestion
on the part of her companion that she had not been alone at the Great Empire Hotel. Much as
she would have liked illumination on this point, she had the prudence to say nothing. Silently
she stepped into the car, a big Mercedes with great glaring eyes; silently, too, she was borne
along the empty streets. It wanted yet three hours to daylight, and Vera asked how long they
would be in reaching their destination. Her companion put on speed once the outskirts of town
were reached. Vera could feel the cold air streaming past her face like a touch of ice.

"Oh, about an hour and a half," the driver said carelessly. "I suppose it is about fifty-five
miles. With these big lamps and these clear roads we'll just fly along."

The speaker touched a lever, and the car seemed to jump over the smooth roads. The hedges and
houses flew by and the whole earth seemed to vibrate to the roar and rattle of the car. It
was Vera's first experience of anything like racing, and she held her breath in terror.

"What would happen if a wheel gave way?" she asked. She had muffled her face in her veil, so
that she could breathe more freely now. "Surely a pace like this is dangerous."

"You have to take risks, miss," the driver said coolly. "We are moving at about five and forty
miles an hour now. I'm very sorry if it makes you nervous, but my instructions were to get
back as quickly as possible."

"I don't feel exactly nervous," Vera said.

"Oh, no, you are getting over it. Everybody does after the first few moments. When you get
used to the motion you will like it. It gives you a feeling like a glass of champagne when
you're tired. You'll see for yourself presently."

Surely enough Vera did see for herself presently. As the feeling of timidity and unfamiliarity
wore off she began to be conscious of a glow in her blood as if she were breathing some pure
mountain air. The breeze fairly sang past her ears, the car ran more smoothly now with nothing
to check its movement, and Vera could have sung aloud for the very joy of living. She began
to understand the vivid pleasure of motoring; she could even make an excuse for those who travelled
the high roads at top speed. Long before she had reached her destination she had forgotten
everything else beside the pure delight of that trip in the dark.

"Here we are, miss," the driver said at length, as he turned in through a pair of huge iron
gates. "It's about a mile up the avenue to the house--but you can see the lights in front of you."

"Have we really come all that way in this short time?" Vera asked. "It only seems about ten
minutes since we started."

The driver made no reply, and Vera had little time to look curiously about her. So far as she
could judge, they were in a large park, filled with magnificent oak trees. Here and there through
the gloom she seemed to see shadowy figures flitting, and these she assumed to be deer. On
each side of the avenue rose a noble line of elm trees, beyond which were the gardens; then
a series of terraces, culminating in a fine house of the late Tudor period. Beyond question,
it was a fine old family mansion in which Fenwick had taken up his quarters for the present.

"What do you call the place?" Vera asked.

"This is Merton Grange, miss," the driver explained. "It belongs to Lord Somebody or another,
I forget his name. Anyway, he has had to let the house for a time and go abroad. You had better
get out here, and I'll take the car to the garage. I wouldn't ring the bell if I were you,
miss. I'd just walk straight into the house. You'll find the door open and the guv'nor ready
to receive you. He is sure to have heard the car coming up the drive."

Vera descended and walked up the flight of steps which led to a noble portico. Here was a great
massive oak door, which looked as if it required the strength of a strong man to open it, but
it yielded to Vera's touch, and a moment later she was standing in the great hall.

Tired as she was and frightened as she was feeling now, she could not but admire the beauty
and symmetry of the place. Like most historic mansions of to-day, the place had been fitted
with electric light, and a soft illuminating flood of it filled the hall. It was a magnificent
oak-panelled apartment, filled with old armor and trophies, and lined with portraits of the
owner's ancestors. It seemed to Vera that anybody might be happy here. It also seemed strange
to her that a man of Fenwick's type should choose a place like this for his habitation. She
was destined to know later what Fenwick had in his mind when he came here.

Vera's meditations were cut short by the appearance of the man himself. To her surprise she
noted that he was dressed in some blue material, just like an engineer on board ship. His hands
were grimy, too, as if he had been indulging in some mechanical work. He nodded curtly to the girl.

"So you've come at last," he said. "I daresay you wonder why I sent for you. There is a little
room at the back yonder, behind the drawing-room, that I have turned into a study. Go in there
and wait for me, and I'll come to you as soon as I have washed my hands. I hope you have brought
all you want with you; for there is precious little accommodation for your sex here at present.
You can take your choice of bed-rooms--there are enough of those and to spare. I have something
serious to say to you."

With a sinking at her heart Vera passed into the little room that Fenwick had pointed out to
her. At any other time she would have admired the old furniture and the elegant refined simplicity
of it all; now she had other things to think of. She stood warming her hands at the fire till
Fenwick came in and carefully closed the door behind him.

"Now we can get to business," he said. "I daresay you wonder why I sent for you instead of
leaving you in London for the present. Up to now I have always regarded you as perfectly safe--indeed,
I thought you were sufficiently grateful to me for all my kindness to you. I find I am mistaken."

Vera looked up with a challenge in her eyes. She knew that she had something to face now, and
she meant to see it through without showing the white feather. She was braced up and ready,
now that the moment for action had come.

"Have you ever really been kind to me?" she challenged. "I mean, have you really been kind
to me for my own sake, and out of pure good-nature? I very much doubt it."

"This is your gratitude," Fenwick sneered. "I think we had better understand one another."

"I would give a great deal to understand you," the girl said boldly. "But we are wasting time
fencing here like this, and I am very tired. You sent for me at this extraordinary hour, and
I came. I have every right to know why you asked me to come here."

"Sit down," Fenwick growled. "I sent for you because I did not trust you. I sent for you because
you have betrayed your promise. You are doing something that you told me you would not do."

"And what is that?" Vera asked.

"Just as if you did not know. Let us go back a bit, back three years and a half ago. Your father
was alive in those days; it was just before he met his death in Mexico."

"I remember perfectly well," Vera said, quietly. "I am not likely to forget the time. Pray
continue."

"Have patience please, I am coming to it all in time. Your father died more or less mysteriously,
but there is not the shadow of a doubt that he was murdered. Nobody knows how he was murdered,
but a good many people behind the scenes can guess why. The thing was hushed up, possibly because
the tragedy took place in so remote a corner of the world--possibly because the authorities
were bribed. Tell me the name of the man, or, at least, tell me the name of the one man who
was with your father at the time of his death."

Vera's face paled slightly, but she kept her eyes steadily fixed on her companion's face. She
began to understand where the point of the torture was coming in.

"I will not affect to misunderstand you," she said. "The man who was with my father at that
time was Mr. Charles Evors. He was a sort of pupil of my father's, and had more than once accompanied
him on his excursions. You want to insinuate that my father met his death at the hands of this
young man, who, overcome by certain temptation and a desire to obtain the secret of the Four
Finger Mine, murdered his master?"

"I am in a position to prove it," Fenwick said sternly. "I have given you practical proof of
it, more than once. Why should I have interfered in the way I did, unless it was that I desired
to save you pain? I could have brought the whole thing into the light of day, but I refrained
from doing so because, it seemed to me, nothing could be gained by bringing the criminal to
justice. I had another reason, too, as you know."

"Yes, I am aware of that," Vera said. "I could never make it out--I could never really believe
that Charles Evors was guilty of that dreadful crime. He was so frank and true, so kind to
everybody! I know he was weak--I know that he had been sent away from England because he had
fallen into bad company; I know, too, that he was a little fond of drink. There was only one
point on which he was reticent--he never spoke much about his people; but I rather gathered
that they were in a high position."

"They were," Fenwick grinned. "You'd be surprised if you knew how high a position. But go on."

"I was saying that I could not credit Charles Evors with such a crime. A man who is so fond
of children, so sympathetic to things weaker than himself, could not have taken the life of
a fellow-creature. He was fond of my father, too, but that was not the strangest feature of
the mystery. Do you suppose for a moment that the man who was engaged to be married to my sister
could have laid violent hands on her father?"

"But he did do it," Fenwick cried impatiently. "Otherwise why did he vanish so mysteriously?
Why did he go away and leave us to infer that he had perished at sea? It was the kindest thing
we could do to let your sister think that her lover was dead, though the shock seems to have
deprived her of her reason; and, though I acted all for the best, your brother chose to proclaim
me an abandoned scoundrel, and to say that your father's death lay at my door. You know why
it became necessary for you to remain with me and treat your brother henceforth as a stranger.
You volunteered to do it, you volunteered to turn your back on your family and remain with
me. Why did you do so?"

No reply came from Vera's lips. It seemed to her that her safest course lay in silence. To
her great relief, Fenwick went on without waiting for an answer.

"Now I am coming to my point," he said. "You have broken faith with me. Three or four times
since we came to England you have seen your brother. You have seen him by stealth; you know
all about that strange household in Portsmouth Square where he chooses to hide himself under
the name of Bates. I want to know why it is that you have chosen to break your word with me?
I have had you watched to-night, and I have learned all your movements by means of the telephone.
You will stay down here during my pleasure. If you fail to do so, or if you try to deceive
me again, as sure as I stand here at the present moment I will betray Charles Evors into the
hands of the police. Now look me in the face and answer my question truthfully Do you know
where that young man is?"

It was fortunate for Vera that she could reply in the negative. A few more hours, perhaps,
and she might have been able to afford the information; but, luckily for her, the startling
events that had recently taken place in Portsmouth Square were not known to her in their entirety.
She could look Fenwick in the face.

"I don't," she said. "I have never seen him since that fateful morning--but I don't care to
go into that. I admit that I have seen my brother. I admit, too, that I have seen my sister;
the temptation to find them and see them once more was too strong for me. You will not be surprised
to find that I have some natural feelings left. It is not so very extraordinary."

Fenwick shot a suspicious glance at Vera, but she was gazing into the fire with a thoughtful
look. She was acting her part splendidly; she was deceiving this man who, as a rule, could
read the thoughts of most people.

"Perhaps you are right," he said doubtfully. "But to make assurance doubly sure you are going
to help me out of a difficulty. I suppose you have not forgotten Felix Zary?"

"No," Vera said, in a curiously low voice. "I have not forgotten my father's faithful companion.
I should very much like to see him again. If you know where he is--"

"Oh, I know where he is," Fenwick said with a laugh. "We will have him down here as a pleasant
surprise. That is all I want you to do--I want you to write a letter to Zary, telling him that
you are in great trouble, and asking him to come down here and see you at once. I should like
you to write that letter now."

CHAPTER XVIII

A COUPLE OF VISITORS

Something in the tone of Fenwick's voice caused Vera to look up hastily. Perhaps it was her
imagination that in the unsteady light of the flickering fire his face seemed to have changed
almost beyond recognition. The features were dark and murderous and the eyes were full of a
lust for vengeance. It was only just for a moment--then the man became his normal self again,
just as if nothing had happened. A violent shudder passed over Vera's frame, but Fenwick appeared
to notice nothing of this.

"You want me to write that letter now?" she asked.

"At once," Fenwick responded. "I don't mind telling you that I am in great trouble over business
matters; there is a conspiracy on foot amongst certain people to get me into trouble. I may
even find myself inside the walls of a prison. The man who can save me from all this is your
friend, Felix Zary. Unfortunately for me, the man has the bad taste to dislike me exceedingly.
He seems to think that I was in some way responsible for your father's death. And, as you know,
he loved your father with a devotion that was almost dog-like. If I could get Zary down here
I should have no difficulty in convincing him that he was wrong. But he would not come near
the place so long as he knew that I was present; so, therefore, I want you to write to him
and conceal the fact that I am on the premises. Directly he gets your letter he will come at once."

"I have not the slightest doubt of it," Vera said slowly. "There is nothing that Zary would
not do for one of us, if you will assure me that you mean no harm by him--"

