Attributed to Matthew Turner (d. 1788?) and William Hammon.

Transcribed by the Freethought Archives

NOTE: Irregularities in orthography and punctuation have been reproduced without emendation
from the first edition of 1782.

ANSWER TO DR. PRIESTLEY'S LETTERS TO A PHILOSOPHICAL UNBELIEVER.

PART I.

LONDON. MDCCLXXXII

ADVERTISEMENT.

The Editor of this publication has more in object to answer Dr. Priestley than to deliver his
own sentiments upon Natural Religion, which however he has no inclination to disguise: but
he does not mean to be answerable for them farther, than as by reason and nature he is at present
instructed. The question here handled is not so much, whether a Deity and his attributed excellences
exist, as whether there is any Natural or Moral proof of his existence and of those attributes.
Revealed knowledge is not descanted upon; therefore Christians at least need take no offence.
Doubts upon Natural Religion have not hitherto been looked upon as attacks upon Revelation,
but rather as corroborations of it. What the Editor believes as a Christian (if he is one is
therefore another affair, nor does he reckon himself so infallible or incapable of alteration
in his sentiments, as not at another time to adopt different ones upon more reflexion and better
information; therefore, though he has at present little or no doubt of what he asserts (taken
upon the principles laid down) he shall hold himself totally freed from any necessity of defending
the contents of this publication if brought into controversy; and as he has no desire of making
converts, hopes he shall not himself be marked out as an object of persecution.

Speculative points have always been esteemed fair matters for a free discussion. The religion
established in this country is not the religion of Nature, but the religion of Moses and Jesus,
with whom the writer has nothing to do. He trusts therefore he shall not be received as a malevolent
disturber of such common opinions as are esteemed to keep in order a set of low wretches so
inclinable to be lawless. At least, if he attempts to substitute better foundations for morality,
malevolence can be no just charge. Truth is his aim; and no professors of religion will allow
their system to be false. Or if he should be thought too bold a speculator, such of the ecclesiastics
as will be his opponents may rather laugh at him than fear him. They have a thousand ways of
making their sentiments go down with the bulk of mankind, to one this poor writer has. They
are an army ready marshalled for the support of their own thesis; they are in the habit of
controversy; pulpits are open to them as well as the press; and while the present author will
be looked upon as a miracle of hardiness for daring to put his name to what he publishes, they
can without fear or imputation lift up their heads; and should they even be known to transgress
the bounds of good sense or politeness, they will only be esteemed as more zealous labourers
in their own vocation.

PREFATORY ADDRESS.

Dr. Priestley,

Your Letters addressed to a Philosophical Unbeliever I perused, not because I was a Philosopher
or an Unbeliever; it were presumption to give myself the former title, and at that time I certainly
did not deserve the latter; but as I was acquainted with another, who in reality, as far as
I and others who know him can judge, deserves the title of a Philosopher and is neither ashamed
nor afraid of that of an Unbeliever, I conceived them apt to be sent to my friend, and when
I presented them to him, he said he was the person whom he should suppose you meant to address,
if you had a particular person in view; but he had too much understanding of the world, though
much abstracted from the dregs of it, not to conceive it more probable that you meant your
Letters to be perused by thinking men in general, Believers and Unbelievers, to confirm the
former in their creed, and to convert the latter from their error. You shall speedily know
the effect they have had in both ways. For myself I must inform you that I was brought up a
Believer from my infancy; a Theist, if a Christian is such; for I suppose the word will be
allowed, though the equivalent term of Deist is so generally reprobated by Christians; I had
before my eyes the example of a most amiable parent; a moral man, a Christian undoubtedly;
who, when I have been attending upon him, as much from affection as from duty upon a sick and
nearly dying bed, has prayed I might be stedfast in the faith he held, in accents still sounding
in my intellectual ear; a parent, whom for his virtues and love of his offspring, like a Chinese,
I am tempted to worship, and I could exclaim with the first of poets,

          "Erit ille mihi semper Deus."

With such habits of education then, such fervent advice and such reverence for my instructor,
what can have turned me from my belief; for I confess I am turned? Immorallity it is not; that
I assert has not preceded my unbelief, and I trust never will follow it; there has not indeed
yet been time for it to follow; whether it is a probable consequence will presently be discussed;
but it is thought, free thought upon the subject; when I began freely to think I proceeded
boldly to doubt; your Letters gave me the cause for thinking, and my scepticism was exchanged
for conviction; not entirely by the perusal of your Letters; for I do not think they would
quite have made me an Atheist! but by attention to that answer from my friend, which I have
his permission to subjoin.

In mentioning that doubts arose by reading your very Letters, which were written to eradicate
all doubts, let me not accuse you of being unequal to the task assumed. I mean no such charge.
You have in my opinion been fully equal to the discussion, and have bandied the argument ably,
pleasingly and politely. I am certain from the extracts you have made from Dr. Clarke, the
first of other Divines, I should have been converted from my superstition by his reasoning,
even without perusal of an answer: I pay you however the compliment of having only brought
me to doubt, and I find I am not the only person who have been led to disbelieve by reading
books expressly written to confirm the Believer. Stackhouse's Comment upon the Bible, and Leland's
View of Deistical Writers have perhaps made as many renegado's in this country as all the allurements
of Mahometanism has in others. What can be said to this? They were both undoubtedly men of
abilities, and meant well to the cause they had to support. All that I shall observe upon the
matter is, that what cannot bear discussion cannot be true. Reasoning in other sciences is
the way to arrive at truth: the learned for a while may differ, but argument at last finds
its force, and the controversy usually ends in general conviction. Reasoning upon the science
of divinity will equally have its weight, and all men of letters would long ago have got rid
of all superstitious notions of a Deity, but that men of letters are frequently men of weak
nerves; such as Dr. Johnson is well known to be, that great triumph to religionists; it requires
courage as well as sense to break the shackles of a pious education; but if merely a resolve
to reason upon their force can break them, what can we observe in conclusion but

          "Magnus est veritas et prevalebit."

That religion or belief of a Deity cannot bear the force of argument is well known by Divines
in general, is manifest by their annexing an idea of reproach to the very term of arguing upon
the subject. These arguers they call Free-thinkers, and this appellation has obtained, in the
understanding of pious believers, the most odious disgrace. Yet we cannot argue without thinking;
nor can we either think or argue to any purpose without freedom. Therefore free-thinking, so
far from being a disgrace, is a virtue, a most commendable quality. How absurd, and how cruel
it is in the professors of divinity, to address the understanding of men on the subject of
their belief, and to upbraid those very men who shall exercise their understanding in attending
to their arguments! No tyranny is greater than that of ecclesiastics. These chain down our
very ideas, other tyrants only confine our limbs. They invite us to the argument, yet damn
us to eternal punishment for the use of reason on the subject. They give to man an essence
distinct from his corporeal appearance and this they call his soul, a very ray and particle
of the Divine Being; the principal faculty of this soul they allow to be that of reasoning,
and yet they call reason a dark lanthorn, an erroneous vapour, a false medium, and at last
the very instrument of another fancied Being of their own to lead men into their own destruction.
"In the image of himself made he man." A favourite text with theologians; but surely they do
not mean that this God Almighty of theirs has got a face and person like a man. No; that they
exclaim against, and, when we push them for the resemblance, they confess it is in the use
of reason; it is in the soul.

I am aware that I am not here to mix questions of Christianity with the general question of
a Divinity; subjects of a very distinct enquiry, and which in the Letters to a Philosophical
Unbeliever are very carefully separated. The subject of revelation is indeed promised afterwards
to be taken up, provided the argument in favour of Natural Religion meets with a good reception.
How, Dr. Priestley, you can judge of that reception I am at a loss to know, otherwise than
by the number of editions you publish. It is then in the sum total just as much as if you had
said, "provided this book sells well I will write another." Yet it may be sold to many such
readers as I have been, though you will hardly call such reception good. You that have wrote
so much, to whom it is so easy to write more, who profess a belief of revelation, such a laborious
enquirer, and so great a master of the art of reasoning, should rather have engaged at once
to prove in a subsequent publication the truth of revealed religion in arguments, as candid
and as fairly drawn as those you have used in proof of a Deity independent of revelation. Different
as I am in qualifications from you, not very learned, far from industrious, unused to publish,
I do now promise that when you shall have brought into light your intended letters in behalf
of revelation I will answer them. I hope you will take it as an encouragement to write that
you are sure you shall have an answer. I mean you should, and I am sure I shall think myself
greatly honoured if you will descend so far as to reply to my present answer. I know you have
been used in controversies to have the last word, and in this I shall not baulk your ambition;
for notwithstanding any defect of my plea in favour of atheism I mean to join issue upon your
replication, and by no means, according to the practice and language of the lawyers, to put
in a rejoinder. Should your arguments be defectively answered by me, should your learning and
your reasoning be more conspicuous than mine, I shall bear your triumph without repining.

