His morality is all sympathy, just what morality should be.  If the only thing that he ever
said had been, 'Her sins are forgiven her because she loved much,' it would have been worth
while dying to have said it.  His justice is all poetical justice, exactly what justice should
be.  The beggar goes to heaven because he has been unhappy.  I cannot conceive a better reason
for his being sent there.  The people who work for an hour in the vineyard in the cool of the
evening receive just as much reward as those who have toiled there all day long in the hot
sun.  Why shouldn't they?  Probably no one deserved anything.  Or perhaps they were a different
kind of people.  Christ had no patience with the dull lifeless mechanical systems that treat
people as if they were things, and so treat everybody alike: for him there were no laws: there
were exceptions merely, as if anybody, or anything, for that matter, was like aught else in
the world!

That which is the very keynote of romantic art was to him the proper basis of natural life.
He saw no other basis.  And when they brought him one, taken in the very act of sin and showed
him her sentence written in the law, and asked him what was to be done, he wrote with his finger
on the ground as though he did not hear them, and finally, when they pressed him again, looked
up and said, 'Let him of you who has never sinned be the first to throw the stone at her.'
It was worth while living to have said that.

Like all poetical natures he loved ignorant people.  He knew that in the soul of one who is
ignorant there is always room for a great idea.  But he could not stand stupid people, especially
those who are made stupid by education: people who are full of opinions not one of which they
even understand, a peculiarly modern type, summed up by Christ when he describes it as the
type of one who has the key of knowledge, cannot use it himself, and does not allow other people
to use it, though it may be made to open the gate of God's Kingdom.  His chief war was against
the Philistines.  That is the war every child of light has to wage. Philistinism was the note
of the age and community in which he lived.  In their heavy inaccessibility to ideas, their
dull respectability, their tedious orthodoxy, their worship of vulgar success, their entire
preoccupation with the gross materialistic side of life, and their ridiculous estimate of themselves
and their importance, the Jews of Jerusalem in Christ's day were the exact counterpart of the
British Philistine of our own.  Christ mocked at the 'whited sepulchre' of respectability,
and fixed that phrase for ever.  He treated worldly success as a thing absolutely to be despised.
He saw nothing in it at all.  He looked on wealth as an encumbrance to a man.  He would not
hear of life being sacrificed to any system of thought or morals.  He pointed out that forms
and ceremonies were made for man, not man for forms and ceremonies.  He took sabbatarianism
as a type of the things that should be set at nought.  The cold philanthropies, the ostentatious
public charities, the tedious formalisms so dear to the middle-class mind, he exposed with
utter and relentless scorn.  To us, what is termed orthodoxy is merely a facile unintelligent
acquiescence; but to them, and in their hands, it was a terrible and paralysing tyranny.  Christ
swept it aside. He showed that the spirit alone was of value.  He took a keen pleasure in pointing
out to them that though they were always reading the law and the prophets, they had not really
the smallest idea of what either of them meant.  In opposition to their tithing of each separate
day into the fixed routine of prescribed duties, as they tithe mint and rue, he preached the
enormous importance of living completely for the moment.

Those whom he saved from their sins are saved simply for beautiful moments in their lives.
Mary Magdalen, when she sees Christ, breaks the rich vase of alabaster that one of her seven
lovers had given her, and spills the odorous spices over his tired dusty feet, and for that
one moment's sake sits for ever with Ruth and Beatrice in the tresses of the snow-white rose
of Paradise.  All that Christ says to us by the way of a little warning is that every moment
should be beautiful, that the soul should always be ready for the coming of the bridegroom,
always waiting for the voice of the lover, Philistinism being simply that side of man's nature
that is not illumined by the imagination.  He sees all the lovely influences of life as modes
of light: the imagination itself is the world of light.  The world is made by it, and yet the
world cannot understand it: that is because the imagination is simply a manifestation of love,
and it is love and the capacity for it that distinguishes one human being from another.

As regards the other subject, the Relation of the Artistic Life to Conduct, it will no doubt
seem strange to you that I should select it. People point to Reading Gaol and say, 'That is
where the artistic life leads a man.'  Well, it might lead to worse places.  The more mechanical
people to whom life is a shrewd speculation depending on a careful calculation of ways and
means, always know where they are going, and go there.  They start with the ideal desire of
being the parish beadle, and in whatever sphere they are placed they succeed in being the parish
beadle and no more.  A man whose desire is to be something separate from himself, to be a member
of Parliament, or a successful grocer, or a prominent solicitor, or a judge, or something equally
tedious, invariably succeeds in being what he wants to be.  That is his punishment.  Those
who want a mask have to wear it.

But with the dynamic forces of life, and those in whom those dynamic forces become incarnate,
it is different.  People whose desire is solely for self-realisation never know where they
are going.  They can't know. In one sense of the word it is of course necessary, as the Greek
oracle said, to know oneself: that is the first achievement of knowledge.  But to recognise
that the soul of a man is unknowable, is the ultimate achievement of wisdom.  The final mystery
is oneself.  When one has weighed the sun in the balance, and measured the steps of the moon,
and mapped out the seven heavens star by star, there still remains oneself. Who can calculate
the orbit of his own soul?  When the son went out to look for his father's asses, he did not
know that a man of God was waiting for him with the very chrism of coronation, and that his
own soul was already the soul of a king.

I hope to live long enough and to produce work of such a character that I shall be able at
the end of my days to say, 'Yes! this is just where the artistic life leads a man!'  Two of
the most perfect lives I have come across in my own experience are the lives of Verlaine and
of Prince Kropotkin: both of them men who have passed years in prison: the first, the one Christian
poet since Dante; the other, a man with a soul of that beautiful white Christ which seems coming
out of Russia.  And for the last seven or eight months, in spite of a succession of great troubles
reaching me from the outside world almost without intermission, I have been placed in direct
contact with a new spirit working in this prison through man and things, that has helped me
beyond any possibility of expression in words: so that while for the first year of my imprisonment
I did nothing else, and can remember doing nothing else, but wring my hands in impotent despair,
and say, 'What an ending, what an appalling ending!' now I try to say to myself, and sometimes
when I am not torturing myself do really and sincerely say, 'What a beginning, what a wonderful
beginning!'  It may really be so.  It may become so.  If it does I shall owe much to this new
personality that has altered every man's life in this place.

You may realise it when I say that had I been released last May, as I tried to be, I would
have left this place loathing it and every official in it with a bitterness of hatred that
would have poisoned my life.  I have had a year longer of imprisonment, but humanity has been
in the prison along with us all, and now when I go out I shall always remember great kindnesses
that I have received here from almost everybody, and on the day of my release I shall give
many thanks to many people, and ask to be remembered by them in turn.

The prison style is absolutely and entirely wrong.  I would give anything to be able to alter
it when I go out.  I intend to try.  But there is nothing in the world so wrong but that the
spirit of humanity, which is the spirit of love, the spirit of the Christ who is not in churches,
may make it, if not right, at least possible to be borne without too much bitterness of heart.

I know also that much is waiting for me outside that is very delightful, from what St. Francis
of Assisi calls 'my brother the wind, and my sister the rain,' lovely things both of them,
down to the shop-windows and sunsets of great cities.  If I made a list of all that still remains
to me, I don't know where I should stop: for, indeed, God made the world just as much for me
as for any one else.  Perhaps I may go out with something that I had not got before.  I need
not tell you that to me reformations in morals are as meaningless and vulgar as Reformations
in theology.  But while to propose to be a better man is a piece of unscientific cant, to have
become a deeper man is the privilege of those who have suffered.  And such I think I have become.

If after I am free a friend of mine gave a feast, and did not invite me to it, I should not
mind a bit.  I can be perfectly happy by myself.  With freedom, flowers, books, and the moon,
who could not be perfectly happy? Besides, feasts are not for me any more.  I have given too
many to care about them.  That side of life is over for me, very fortunately, I dare say. 
But if after I am free a friend of mine had a sorrow and refused to allow me to share it, I
should feel it most bitterly.  If he shut the doors of the house of mourning against me, I
would come back again and again and beg to be admitted, so that I might share in what I was
entitled to share in.  If he thought me unworthy, unfit to weep with him, I should feel it
as the most poignant humiliation, as the most terrible mode in which disgrace could be inflicted
on me.  But that could not be. I have a right to share in sorrow, and he who can look at the
loveliness of the world and share its sorrow, and realise something of the wonder of both,
is in immediate contact with divine things, and has got as near to God's secret as any one can get.

Perhaps there may come into my art also, no less than into my life, a still deeper note, one
of greater unity of passion, and directness of impulse.  Not width but intensity is the true
aim of modern art.  We are no longer in art concerned with the type.  It is with the exception
that we have to do.  I cannot put my sufferings into any form they took, I need hardly say.
Art only begins where Imitation ends, but something must come into my work, of fuller memory
of words perhaps, of richer cadences, of more curious effects, of simpler architectural order,
of some aesthetic quality at any rate.

When Marsyas was 'torn from the scabbard of his limbs'--della vagina della membre sue, to use
one of Dante's most terrible Tacitean phrases--he had no more song, the Greek said.  Apollo
had been victor. The lyre had vanquished the reed.  But perhaps the Greeks were mistaken. I
hear in much modern Art the cry of Marsyas.  It is bitter in Baudelaire, sweet and plaintive
in Lamartine, mystic in Verlaine.  It is in the deferred resolutions of Chopin's music.  It
is in the discontent that haunts Burne-Jones's women.  Even Matthew Arnold, whose song of Callicles
tells of 'the triumph of the sweet persuasive lyre,' and the 'famous final victory,' in such
a clear note of lyrical beauty, has not a little of it; in the troubled undertone of doubt
and distress that haunts his verses, neither Goethe nor Wordsworth could help him, though he
followed each in turn, and when he seeks to mourn for Thyrsis or to sing of the Scholar Gipsy,
it is the reed that he has to take for the rendering of his strain.  But whether or not the
Phrygian Faun was silent, I cannot be.  Expression is as necessary to me as leaf and blossoms
are to the black branches of the trees that show themselves above the prison walls and are
so restless in the wind.  Between my art and the world there is now a wide gulf, but between
art and myself there is none.  I hope at least that there is none.

To each of us different fates are meted out.

For a year after that was done to me I wept every day at the same hour and for the same space
of time.  That is not such a tragic thing as possibly it sounds to you.  To those who are in
prison tears are a part of every day's experience.  A day in prison on which one does not weep
is a day on which one's heart is hard, not a day on which one's heart is happy.

Well, now I am really beginning to feel more regret for the people who laughed than for myself.
Of course when they saw me I was not on my pedestal, I was in the pillory.  But it is a very
unimaginative nature that only cares for people on their pedestals.  A pedestal may be a very
unreal thing.  A pillory is a terrific reality.  They should have known also how to interpret
sorrow better.  I have said that behind sorrow there is always sorrow.  It were wiser still
to say that behind sorrow there is always a soul.  And to mock at a soul in pain is a dreadful
thing.  In the strangely simple economy of the world people only get what they give, and to
those who have not enough imagination to penetrate the mere outward of things, and feel pity,
what pity can be given save that of scorn?

I write this account of the mode of my being transferred here simply that it should be realised
how hard it has been for me to get anything out of my punishment but bitterness and despair.
I have, however, to do it, and now and then I have moments of submission and acceptance.  All
the spring may be hidden in the single bud, and the low ground nest of the lark may hold the
joy that is to herald the feet of many rose-red dawns.  So perhaps whatever beauty of life
still remains to me is contained in some moment of surrender, abasement, and humiliation. 
I can, at any rate, merely proceed on the lines of my own development, and, accepting all that
has happened to me, make myself worthy of it.

