Next day Willersley wanted to go on, but I delayed. Altogether I kept him back four days. Then
abruptly my mood changed, and we decided to start early the following morning. I remember,
though a little indistinctly, the feeling of my last talk with that woman whose surname, odd
as it may seem, either I never learnt or I have forgotten. (Her christian name was Milly.)
She was tired and rather low-spirited, and disposed to be sentimental, and for the first time
in our intercourse I found myself liking her for the sake of her own personality. There was
something kindly and generous appearing behind the veil of naive and uncontrolled sensuality
she had worn. There was a curious quality of motherliness in her attitude to me that something
in my nature answered and approved. She didn't pretend to keep it up that she had yielded to
my initiative. "I've done you no harm," she said a little doubtfully, an odd note for a man's
victim! And, "we've had a good time. You have liked me, haven't you?"

She interested me in her lonely dissatisfied life; she was childless and had no hope of children,
and her husband was the only son of a rich meat salesman, very mean, a mighty smoker--"he reeks
of it," she said, "always"--and interested in nothing but golf, billiards (which he played
very badly), pigeon shooting, convivial Free Masonry and Stock Exchange punting. Mostly they
drifted about the Riviera. Her mother had contrived her marriage when she was eighteen. They
were the first samples I ever encountered of the great multitude of functionless property owners
which encumbers modern civilisation--but at the time I didn't think much of that aspect of them....

I tell all this business as it happened without comment, because I have no comment to make.
It was all strange to me, strange rather than wonderful, and, it may be, some dream of beauty
died for ever in those furtive meetings; it happened to me, and I could scarcely have been
more irresponsible in the matter or controlled events less if I had been suddenly pushed over
a cliff into water. I swam, of course--finding myself in it. Things tested me, and I reacted,
as I have told. The bloom of my innocence, if ever there had been such a thing, was gone. And
here is the remarkable thing about it; at the time and for some days I was over-weeningly proud;
I have never been so proud before or since; I felt I had been promoted to virility; I was unable
to conceal my exultation from Willersley. It was a mood of shining shameless ungracious self-approval.
As he and I went along in the cool morning sunshine by the rice fields in the throat of the
Val Maggia a silence fell between us.

"You know?" I said abruptly,--"about that woman?"

Willersley did not answer for a moment. He looked at me over the corner of his spectacles.

"Things went pretty far?" he asked.

"Oh! all the way!" and I had a twinge of fatuous pride in my unpremeditated achievement.

"She came to your room?"

I nodded.

"I heard her. I heard her whispering.... The whispering and rustling and so on. I was in my
room yesterday.... Any one might have heard you."

I went on with my head in the air.

"You might have been caught, and that would have meant endless trouble. You might have incurred
all sorts of consequences. What did you know about her?... We have wasted four days in that
hot close place. When we found that League of Social Service we were talking about," he said
with a determined eye upon me, "chastity will be first among the virtues prescribed."

"I shall form a rival league," I said a little damped. "I'm hanged if I give up a single desire
in me until I know why."

He lifted his chin and stared before him through his glasses at nothing. "There are some things,"
he said, "that a man who means to work--to do great public services--MUST turn his back upon.
I'm not discussing the rights or wrongs of this sort of thing. It happens to be the conditions
we work under. It will probably always be so. If you want to experiment in that way, if you
want even to discuss it,--out you go from political life. You must know that's so.... You're
a strange man, Remington, with a kind of kink in you. You've a sort of force. You might happen
to do immense things.... Only--"

He stopped. He had said all that he had forced himself to say.

"I mean to take myself as I am," I said. "I'm going to get experience for humanity out of all
my talents--and bury nothing."

Willersley twisted his face to its humorous expression. "I doubt if sexual proclivities," he
said drily, "come within the scope of the parable."

I let that go for a little while. Then I broke out. "Sex!" said I, "is a fundamental thing
in life. We went through all this at Trinity. I'm going to look at it, experience it, think
about it--and get it square with the rest of life. Career and Politics must take their chances
of that. It's part of the general English slackness that they won't look this in the face.
Gods! what a muffled time we're coming out of! Sex means breeding, and breeding is a necessary
function in a nation. The Romans broke up upon that. The Americans fade out amidst their successes.
Eugenics--"

"THAT wasn't Eugenics," said Willersley.

"It was a woman," I said after a little interval, feeling oddly that I had failed altogether
to answer him, and yet had a strong dumb case against him.

BOOK THE SECOND: MARGARET

CHAPTER THE FIRST ~~ MARGARET IN STAFFORDSHIRE

1

I must go back a little way with my story. In the previous book I have described the kind of
education that happens to a man of my class nowadays, and it has been convenient to leap a
phase in my experience that I must now set out at length. I want to tell in this second hook
how I came to marry, and to do that I must give something of the atmosphere in which I first
met my wife and some intimations of the forces that went to her making. I met her in Staffordshire
while I was staying with that uncle of whom I have already spoken, the uncle who sold my father's
houses and settled my mother in Penge. Margaret was twenty then and I was twenty-two.

It was just before the walking tour in Switzerland that opened up so much of the world to me.
I saw her once, for an afternoon, and circumstances so threw her up in relief that I formed
a very vivid memory of her. She was in the sharpest contrast with the industrial world about
her; she impressed me as a dainty blue flower might do, come upon suddenly on a clinker heap.
She remained in my mind at once a perplexing interrogation and a symbol....

But first I must tell of my Staffordshire cousins and the world that served as a foil for her.

2

I first went to stay with my cousins when I was an awkward youth of sixteen, wearing deep mourning
for my mother. My uncle wanted to talk things over with me, he said, and if he could, to persuade
me to go into business instead of going up to Cambridge.

I remember that visit on account of all sorts of novel things, but chiefly, I think, because
it was the first time I encountered anything that deserves to be spoken of as wealth. For the
first time in my life I had to do with people who seemed to have endless supplies of money,
unlimited good clothes, numerous servants; whose daily life was made up of things that I had
hitherto considered to be treats or exceptional extravagances. My cousins of eighteen and nineteen
took cabs, for instance, with the utmost freedom, and travelled first-class in the local trains
that run up and down the district of the Five Towns with an entire unconsciousness of the magnificence,
as it seemed to me, of such a proceeding.

The family occupied a large villa in Newcastle, with big lawns before it and behind, a shrubbery
with quite a lot of shrubs, a coach house and stable, and subordinate dwelling-places for the
gardener and the coachman. Every bedroom contained a gas heater and a canopied brass bedstead,
and had a little bathroom attached equipped with the porcelain baths and fittings my uncle
manufactured, bright and sanitary and stamped with his name, and the house was furnished throughout
with chairs and tables in bright shining wood, soft and prevalently red Turkish carpets, cosy
corners, curtained archways, gold-framed landscapes, overmantels, a dining-room sideboard like
a palace with a large Tantalus, and electric light fittings of a gay and expensive quality.
There was a fine billiard-room on the ground floor with three comfortable sofas and a rotating
bookcase containing an excellent collection of the English and American humorists from THREE
MEN IN A BOAT to the penultimate Mark Twain. There was also a conservatory opening out of the
dining-room, to which the gardener brought potted flowers in their season....

My aunt was a little woman with a scared look and a cap that would get over one eye, not very
like my mother, and nearly eight years her junior; she was very much concerned with keeping
everything nice, and unmercifully bullied by my two cousins, who took after their father and
followed the imaginations of their own hearts. They were tall, dark, warmly flushed girls handsome
rather than pretty. Gertrude, the eldest and tallest, had eyes that were almost black; Sibyl
was of a stouter build, and her eyes, of which she was shamelessly proud, were dark blue. Sibyl's
hair waved, and Gertrude's was severely straight. They treated me on my first visit with all
the contempt of the adolescent girl for a boy a little younger and infinitely less expert in
the business of life than herself. They were very busy with the writings of notes and certain
mysterious goings and comings of their own, and left me very much to my own devices. Their
speech in my presence was full of unfathomable allusions. They were the sort of girls who will
talk over and through an uninitiated stranger with the pleasantest sense of superiority.

I met them at breakfast and at lunch and at the half-past six o'clock high tea that formed
the third chief meal of the day. I heard them rattling off the compositions of Chaminade and
Moskowski, with great decision and effect, and hovered on the edge of tennis foursomes where
it was manifest to the dullest intelligence that my presence was unnecessary. Then I went off
to find some readable book in the place, but apart from miscellaneous popular novels, some
veterinary works, a number of comic books, old bound volumes of THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS
and a large, popular illustrated History of England, there was very little to be found. My
aunt talked to me in a casual feeble way, chiefly about my mother's last illness. The two had
seen very little of each other for many years; she made no secret of it that the ineligible
qualities of my father were the cause of the estrangement. The only other society in the house
during the day was an old and rather decayed Skye terrier in constant conflict with what were
no doubt imaginary fleas. I took myself off for a series of walks, and acquired a considerable
knowledge of the scenery and topography of the Potteries.

It puzzled my aunt that I did not go westward, where it was country-side and often quite pretty,
with hedgerows and fields and copses and flowers. But always I went eastward, where in a long
valley industrialism smokes and sprawls. That was the stuff to which I turned by nature, to
the human effort, and the accumulation and jar of men's activities. And in such a country as
that valley social and economic relations were simple and manifest. Instead of the limitless
confusion of London's population, in which no man can trace any but the most slender correlation
between rich and poor, in which everyone seems disconnected and adrift from everyone, you can
see here the works, the potbank or the ironworks or what not, and here close at hand the congested,
meanly-housed workers, and at a little distance a small middle-class quarter, and again remoter,
the big house of the employer. It was like a very simplified diagram--after the untraceable
confusion of London.

I prowled alone, curious and interested, through shabby back streets of mean little homes;
I followed canals, sometimes canals of mysteriously heated waters with ghostly wisps of steam
rising against blackened walls or a distant prospect of dustbin-fed vegetable gardens, I saw
the women pouring out from the potbanks, heard the hooters summoning the toilers to work, lost
my way upon slag heaps as big as the hills of the south country, dodged trains at manifestly
dangerous level crossings, and surveyed across dark intervening spaces, the flaming uproar,
the gnome-like activities of iron foundries. I heard talk of strikes and rumours of strikes,
and learnt from the columns of some obscure labour paper I bought one day, of the horrors of
the lead poisoning that was in those days one of the normal risks of certain sorts of pottery
workers. Then back I came, by the ugly groaning and clanging steam train of that period, to
my uncle's house and lavish abundance of money and more or less furtive flirtations and the
tinkle of Moskowski and Chaminade. It was, I say, diagrammatic. One saw the expropriator and
the expropriated--as if Marx had arranged the picture. It was as jumbled and far more dingy
and disastrous than any of the confusions of building and development that had surrounded my
youth at Bromstead and Penge, but it had a novel quality of being explicable. I found great
virtue in the word "exploitation."

There stuck in my mind as if it was symbolical of the whole thing the twisted figure of a man,
whose face had been horribly scalded--I can't describe how, except that one eye was just expressionless
white--and he ground at an organ bearing a card which told in weak and bitterly satirical phrasing
that he had been scalded by the hot water from the tuyeres of the blast furnace of Lord Pandram's
works. He had been scalded and quite inadequately compensated and dismissed. And Lord Pandram
was worth half a million.

That upturned sightless white eye of his took possession of my imagination. I don't think that
even then I was swayed by any crude melodramatic conception of injustice. I was quite prepared
to believe the card wasn't a punctiliously accurate statement of fact, and that a case could
be made out for Lord Pandram. Still there in the muddy gutter, painfully and dreadfully, was
the man, and he was smashed and scalded and wretched, and he ground his dismal hurdygurdy with
a weary arm, calling upon Heaven and the passer-by for help, for help and some sort of righting--one
could not imagine quite what. There he was as a fact, as a by-product of the system that heaped
my cousins with trinkets and provided the comic novels and the abundant cigars and spacious
billiard-room of my uncle's house. I couldn't disconnect him and them.

My uncle on his part did nothing to conceal the state of war that existed between himself and
his workers, and the mingled contempt and animosity he felt from them.

3

Prosperity had overtaken my uncle. So quite naturally he believed that every man who was not
as prosperous as he was had only himself to blame. He was rich and he had left school and gone
into his father's business at fifteen, and that seemed to him the proper age at which everyone's
education should terminate. He was very anxious to dissuade me from going up to Cambridge,
and we argued intermittently through all my visit.

I had remembered him as a big and buoyant man, striding destructively about the nursery floor
of my childhood, and saluting my existence by slaps, loud laughter, and questions about half
herrings and half eggs subtly framed to puzzle and confuse my mind. I didn't see him for some
years until my father's death, and then he seemed rather smaller, though still a fair size,
yellow instead of red and much less radiantly aggressive. This altered effect was due not so
much to my own changed perspectives, I fancy, as to the facts that he was suffering for continuous
cigar smoking, and being taken in hand by his adolescent daughters who had just returned from
school.

During my first visit there was a perpetual series of--the only word is rows, between them
and him. Up to the age of fifteen or thereabouts, he had maintained his ascendancy over them
by simple old-fashioned physical chastisement. Then after an interlude of a year it had dawned
upon them that power had mysteriously departed from him. He had tried stopping their pocket
money, but they found their mother financially amenable; besides which it was fundamental to
my uncle's attitude that he should give them money freely. Not to do so would seem like admitting
a difficulty in making it. So that after he had stopped their allowances for the fourth time
Sybil and Gertrude were prepared to face beggary without a qualm. It had been his pride to
give them the largest allowance of any girls at the school, not even excepting the granddaughter
of Fladden the Borax King, and his soul recoiled from this discipline as it had never recoiled
from the ruder method of the earlier phase. Both girls had developed to a high pitch in their
mutual recriminations a gift for damaging retort, and he found it an altogether deadlier thing
than the power of the raised voice that had always cowed my aunt. Whenever he became heated
with them, they frowned as if involuntarily, drew in their breath sharply, said: "Daddy, you
really must not say--" and corrected his pronunciation. Then, at a great advantage, they resumed
the discussion....

My uncle's views about Cambridge, however, were perfectly clear and definite. It was waste
of time and money. It was all damned foolery. Did they make a man a better business man? Not
a bit of it. He gave instances. It spoilt a man for business by giving him "false ideas." Some
men said that at college a man formed useful friendships. What use were friendships to a business
man? He might get to know lords, but, as my uncle pointed out, a lord's requirements in his
line of faience were little greater than a common man's. If college introduced him to hotel
proprietors there might be something in it. Perhaps it helped a man into Parliament, Parliament
still being a confused retrogressive corner in the world where lawyers and suchlike sheltered
themselves from the onslaughts of common-sense behind a fog of Latin and Greek and twaddle
and tosh; but I wasn't the sort to go into Parliament, unless I meant to be a lawyer. Did I
mean to be a lawyer? It cost no end of money, and was full of uncertainties, and there were
no judges nor great solicitors among my relations. "Young chaps think they get on by themselves,"
said my uncle. "It isn't so. Not unless they take their coats off. I took mine off before I
was your age by nigh a year."

We were at cross purposes from the outset, because I did not think men lived to make money;
and I was obtuse to the hints he was throwing out at the possibilities of his own potbank,
not willfully obtuse, but just failing to penetrate his meaning. Whatever City Merchants had
or had not done for me, Flack, Topham and old Gates had certainly barred my mistaking the profitable
production and sale of lavatory basins and bathroom fittings for the highest good. It was only
upon reflection that it dawned upon me that the splendid chance for a young fellow with my
uncle, "me, having no son of my own," was anything but an illustration for comparison with
my own chosen career.

I still remember very distinctly my uncle's talk,--he loved to speak "reet Staffordshire"--his
rather flabby face with the mottled complexion that told of crude ill-regulated appetites,
his clumsy gestures--he kept emphasising his points by prodding at me with his finger--the
ill-worn, costly, grey tweed clothes, the watch chain of plain solid gold, and soft felt hat
thrust back from his head. He tackled me first in the garden after lunch, and then tried to
raise me to enthusiasm by taking me to his potbank and showing me its organisation, from the
dusty grinding mills in which whitened men worked and coughed, through the highly ventilated
glazing room in which strangely masked girls looked ashamed of themselves,--"They'll risk death,
the fools, to show their faces to a man," said my uncle, quite audibly--to the firing kilns
and the glazing kilns, and so round the whole place to the railway siding and the gratifying
spectacle of three trucks laden with executed orders.

Then we went up a creaking outside staircase to his little office, and he showed off before
me for a while, with one or two subordinates and the telephone.

"None of your Gas," he said, "all this. It's Real every bit of it. Hard cash and hard glaze."

"Yes," I said, with memories of a carelessly read pamphlet in my mind, and without any satirical
intention, "I suppose you MUST use lead in your glazes?"

Whereupon I found I had tapped the ruling grievance of my uncle's life. He hated leadless glazes
more than he hated anything, except the benevolent people who had organised the agitation for
their use. "Leadless glazes ain't only fit for buns," he said. "Let me tell you, my boy--"

He began in a voice of bland persuasiveness that presently warmed to anger, to explain the
whole matter. I hadn't the rights of the matter at all. Firstly, there was practically no such
thing as lead poisoning. Secondly, not everyone was liable to lead poisoning, and it would
be quite easy to pick out the susceptible types--as soon as they had it--and put them to other
work. Thirdly, the evil effects of lead poisoning were much exaggerated. Fourthly, and this
was in a particularly confidential undertone, many of the people liked to get lead poisoning,
especially the women, because it caused abortion. I might not believe it, but he knew it for
a fact. Fifthly, the work-people simply would not learn the gravity of the danger, and would
eat with unwashed hands, and incur all sorts of risks, so that as my uncle put it: "the fools
deserve what they get." Sixthly, he and several associated firms had organised a simple and
generous insurance scheme against lead-poisoning risks. Seventhly, he never wearied in rational
(as distinguished from excessive, futile and expensive) precautions against the disease. Eighthly,
in the ill-equipped shops of his minor competitors lead poisoning was a frequent and virulent
evil, and people had generalised from these exceptional cases. The small shops, he hazarded,
looking out of the cracked and dirty window at distant chimneys, might be advantageously closed....

"But what's the good of talking?" said my uncle, getting off the table on which he had been
sitting. "Seems to me there'll come a time when a master will get fined if he don't run round
the works blowing his girls noses for them. That's about what it'll come to."

He walked to the black mantelpiece and stood on the threadbare rug, and urged me not to be
misled by the stories of prejudiced and interested enemies of our national industries.

"They'll get a strike one of these days, of employers, and then we'll see a bit," he said.
"They'll drive Capital abroad and then they'll whistle to get it back again."...

He led the way down the shaky wooden steps and cheered up to tell me of his way of checking
his coal consumption. He exchanged a ferocious greeting with one or two workpeople, and so
we came out of the factory gates into the ugly narrow streets, paved with a peculiarly hard
diapered brick of an unpleasing inky-blue colour, and bordered with the mean and squalid homes
of his workers. Doors stood open and showed grimy interiors, and dirty ill-clad children played
in the kennel.

We passed a sickly-looking girl with a sallow face, who dragged her limbs and peered at us
dimly with painful eyes. She stood back, as partly blinded people will do, to allow us to pass,
although there was plenty of room for us.

I glanced back at her.

"THAT'S ploombism," said my uncle casually.

"What?" said I.

"Ploombism. And the other day I saw a fool of a girl, and what d'you think? She'd got a basin
that hadn't been fired, a cracked piece of biscuit it was, up on the shelf over her head, just
all over glaze, killing glaze, man, and she was putting up her hand if you please, and eating
her dinner out of it. Got her dinner in it!

"Eating her dinner out of it," he repeated in loud and bitter tones, and punched me hard in
the ribs.

"And then they comes to THAT--and grumbles. And the fools up in Westminster want you to put
in fans here and fans there--the Longton fools have.... And then eating their dinners out of
it all the time!"...

At high tea that night--my uncle was still holding out against evening dinner--Sibyl and Gertrude
made what was evidently a concerted demand for a motor-car.

"You've got your mother's brougham," he said, "that's good enough for you." But he seemed shaken
by the fact that some Burslem rival was launching out with the new invention. "He spoils his
girls," he remarked. "He's a fool," and became thoughtful.

Afterwards he asked me to come to him into his study; it was a room with a writing-desk and
full of pieces of earthenware and suchlike litter, and we had our great row about Cambridge.

"Have you thought things over, Dick?" he said.

"I think I'll go to Trinity, Uncle," I said firmly. "I want to go to Trinity. It is a great
college."

He was manifestly chagrined. "You're a fool," he said.

I made no answer.

"You're a damned fool," he said. "But I suppose you've got to do it. You could have come here--That
don't matter, though, now... You'll have your time and spend your money, and be a poor half-starved
clergyman, mucking about with the women all the day and afraid to have one of your own ever,
or you'll be a schoolmaster or some such fool for the rest of your life. Or some newspaper
chap. That's what you'll get from Cambridge. I'm half a mind not to let you. Eh? More than
half a mind...."

"You've got to do the thing you can," he said, after a pause, "and likely it's what you're
fitted for."

4

I paid several short visits to Staffordshire during my Cambridge days, and always these relations
of mine produced the same effect of hardness. My uncle's thoughts had neither atmosphere nor
mystery. He lived in a different universe from the dreams of scientific construction that filled
my mind. He could as easily have understood Chinese poetry. His motives were made up of intense
rivalries with other men of his class and kind, a few vindictive hates springing from real
and fancied slights, a habit of acquisition that had become a second nature, a keen love both
of efficiency and display in his own affairs. He seemed to me to have no sense of the state,
no sense and much less any love of beauty, no charity and no sort of religious feeling whatever.
He had strong bodily appetites, he ate and drank freely, smoked a great deal, and occasionally
was carried off by his passions for a "bit of a spree" to Birmingham or Liverpool or Manchester.
The indulgences of these occasions were usually followed by a period of reaction, when he was
urgent for the suppression of nudity in the local Art Gallery and a harsh and forcible elevation
of the superficial morals of the valley. And he spoke of the ladies who ministered to the delights
of his jolly-dog period, when he spoke of them at all, by the unprintable feminine equivalent.
My aunt he treated with a kindly contempt and considerable financial generosity, but his daughters
tore his heart; he was so proud of them, so glad to find them money to spend, so resolved to
own them, so instinctively jealous of every man who came near them.

My uncle has been the clue to a great number of men for me. He was an illuminating extreme.
I have learnt what not to expect from them through him, and to comprehend resentments and dangerous
sudden antagonisms I should have found incomprehensible in their more complex forms, if I had
not first seen them in him in their feral state.

With his soft felt hat at the back of his head, his rather heavy, rather mottled face, his
rationally thick boots and slouching tweed-clad form, a little round-shouldered and very obstinate
looking, he strolls through all my speculations sucking his teeth audibly, and occasionally
throwing out a shrewd aphorism, the intractable unavoidable ore of the new civilisation.

Essentially he was simple. Generally speaking, he hated and despised in equal measure whatever
seemed to suggest that he personally was not the most perfect human being conceivable. He hated
all education after fifteen because he had had no education after fifteen, he hated all people
who did not have high tea until he himself under duress gave up high tea, he hated every game
except football, which he had played and could judge, he hated all people who spoke foreign
languages because he knew no language but Staffordshire, he hated all foreigners because he
was English, and all foreign ways because they were not his ways. Also he hated particularly,
and in this order, Londoner's, Yorkshiremen, Scotch, Welch and Irish, because they were not
"reet Staffordshire," and he hated all other Staffordshire men as insufficiently "reet." He
wanted to have all his own women inviolate, and to fancy he had a call upon every other woman
in the world. He wanted to have the best cigars and the best brandy in the world to consume
or give away magnificently, and every one else to have inferior ones. (His billiard table was
an extra large size, specially made and very inconvenient.) And he hated Trade Unions because
they interfered with his autocratic direction of his works, and his workpeople because they
were not obedient and untiring mechanisms to do his bidding. He was, in fact, a very naive,
vigorous human being. He was about as much civilised, about as much tamed to the ideas of collective
action and mutual consideration as a Central African negro.

There are hordes of such men as he throughout all the modern industrial world. You will find
the same type with the slightest modifications in the Pas de Calais or Rhenish Prussia or New
Jersey or North Italy. No doubt you would find it in New Japan. These men have raised themselves
up from the general mass of untrained, uncultured, poorish people in a hard industrious selfish
struggle. To drive others they have had first to drive themselves. They have never yet had
occasion nor leisure to think of the state or social life as a whole, and as for dreams or
beauty, it was a condition of survival that they should ignore such cravings. All the distinctive
qualities of my uncle can be thought of as dictated by his conditions; his success and harshness,
the extravagances that expressed his pride in making money, the uncongenial luxury that sprang
from rivalry, and his self-reliance, his contempt for broad views, his contempt for everything
that he could not understand.

His daughters were the inevitable children of his life. Queer girls they were! Curiously "spirited"
as people phrase it, and curiously limited. During my Cambridge days I went down to Staffordshire
several times. My uncle, though he still resented my refusal to go into his business, was also
in his odd way proud of me. I was his nephew and poor relation, and yet there I was, a young
gentleman learning all sorts of unremunerative things in the grandest manner, "Latin and mook,"
while the sons of his neighhours, not nephews merely, but sons, stayed unpolished in their
native town. Every time I went down I found extensive changes and altered relations, and before
I had settled down to them off I went again. I don't think I was one person to them; I was
a series of visitors. There is a gulf of ages between a gaunt schoolboy of sixteen in unbecoming
mourning and two vividly self-conscious girls of eighteen and nineteen, but a Cambridge "man"
of two and twenty with a first and good tennis and a growing social experience, is a fair contemporary
for two girls of twenty-three and twenty-four.

A motor-car appeared, I think in my second visit, a bottle-green affair that opened behind,
had dark purple cushions, and was controlled mysteriously by a man in shiny black costume and
a flat cap. The high tea had been shifted to seven and rechristened dinner, but my uncle would
not dress nor consent to have wine; and after one painful experiment, I gathered, and a scene,
he put his foot down and prohibited any but high-necked dresses.

"Daddy's perfectly impossible," Sybil told me.

The foot had descended vehemently! "My own daughters!" he had said, "dressed up like--"--and
had arrested himself and fumbled and decided to say--"actresses, and showin' their fat arms
for every fool to stare at!" Nor would he have any people invited to dinner. He didn't, he
had explained, want strangers poking about in his house when he came home tired. So such calling
as occurred went on during his absence in the afternoon.

One of the peculiarities of the life of these ascendant families of the industrial class to
which wealth has come, is its tremendous insulations. There were no customs of intercourse
in the Five Towns. All the isolated prosperities of the district sprang from economising, hard
driven homes, in which there was neither time nor means for hospitality. Social intercourse
centred very largely upon the church or chapel, and the chapels were better at bringing people
together than the Establishment to which my cousins belonged. Their chief outlet to the wider
world lay therefore through the acquaintances they had formed at school, and through two much
less prosperous families of relations who lived at Longton and Hanley. A number of gossiping
friendships with old school mates were "kept up," and my cousins would "spend the afternoon"
or even spend the day with these; such occasions led to other encounters and interlaced with
the furtive correspondences and snatched meetings that formed the emotional thread of their
lives. When the billiard table had been new, my uncle had taken to asking in a few approved
friends for an occasional game, but mostly the billiard-room was for glory and the girls. Both
of them played very well. They never, so far as I know, dined out, and when at last after bitter
domestic conflicts they began to go to dances, they went with the quavering connivance of my
aunt, and changed into ball frocks at friends' houses on the way. There was a tennis club that
formed a convenient afternoon rendezvous, and I recall that in the period of my earlier visits
the young bloods of the district found much satisfaction in taking girls for drives in dog-carts
and suchlike high-wheeled vehicles, a disposition that died in tangled tandems at the apparition
of motor-car's.

My aunt and uncle had conceived no plans in life for their daughters at all. In the undifferentiated
industrial community from which they had sprung, girls got married somehow, and it did not
occur to them that the concentration of property that had made them wealthy, had cut their
children off from the general social sea in which their own awkward meeting had occurred, without
necessarily opening any other world in exchange. My uncle was too much occupied with the works
and his business affairs and his private vices to philosophise about his girls; he wanted them
just to keep girls, preferably about sixteen, and to be a sort of animated flowers and make
home bright and be given things. He was irritated that they would not remain at this, and still
more irritated that they failed to suppress altogether their natural interest in young men.
The tandems would be steered by weird and devious routes to evade the bare chance of his bloodshot
eye. My aunt seemed to have no ideas whatever about what was likely to happen to her children.
She had indeed no ideas about anything; she took her husband and the days as they came.

I can see now the pathetic difficulty of my cousins' position in life; the absence of any guidance
or instruction or provision for their development. They supplemented the silences of home by
the conversation of schoolfellows and the suggestions of popular fiction. They had to make
what they could out of life with such hints as these. The church was far too modest to offer
them any advice. It was obtruded upon my mind upon my first visit that they were both carrying
on correspondences and having little furtive passings and seeings and meetings with the mysterious
owners of certain initials, S. and L. K., and, if I remember rightly, "the R. N." brothers
and cousins, I suppose, of their friends. The same thing was going on, with a certain intensification,
at my next visit, excepting only that the initials were different. But when I came again their
methods were maturer or I was no longer a negligible quantity, and the notes and the initials
were no longer flaunted quite so openly in my face.

My cousins had worked it out from the indications of their universe that the end of life is
to have a "good time." They used the phrase. That and the drives in dog-carts were only the
first of endless points of resemblance between them and the commoner sort of American girl.
When some years ago I paid my first and only visit to America I seemed to recover my cousins'
atmosphere as soon as I entered the train at Euston. There were three girls in my compartment
supplied with huge decorated cases of sweets, and being seen off by a company of friends, noisily
arch and eager about the "steamer letters" they would get at Liverpool; they were the very
soul-sisters of my cousins. The chief elements of a good time, as my cousins judged it, as
these countless thousands of rich young women judge it, are a petty eventfulness, laughter,
and to feel that you are looking well and attracting attention. Shopping is one of its leading
joys. You buy things, clothes and trinkets for yourself and presents for your friends. Presents
always seemed to be flying about in that circle; flowers and boxes of sweets were common currency.
My cousins were always getting and giving, my uncle caressed them with parcels and cheques.
They kissed him and he exuded sovereigns as a stroked APHIS exudes honey. It was like the new
language of the Academy of Lagado to me, and I never learnt how to express myself in it, for
nature and training make me feel encumbered to receive presents and embarrassed in giving them.
But then, like my father, I hate and distrust possessions.

Of the quality of their private imagination I never learnt anything; I suppose it followed
the lines of the fiction they read and was romantic and sentimental. So far as marriage went,
the married state seemed at once very attractive and dreadfully serious to them, composed in
equal measure of becoming important and becoming old. I don't know what they thought about
children. I doubt if they thought about them at all. It was very secret if they did.

As for the poor and dingy people all about them, my cousins were always ready to take part
in a Charitable Bazaar. They were unaware of any economic correlation of their own prosperity
and that circumambient poverty, and they knew of Trade Unions simply as disagreeable external
things that upset my uncle's temper. They knew of nothing wrong in social life at all except
that there were "Agitators." It surprised them a little, I think, that Agitators were not more
drastically put down. But they had a sort of instinctive dread of social discussion as of something
that might breach the happiness of their ignorance....

5

My cousins did more than illustrate Marx for me; they also undertook a stage of my emotional
education. Their method in that as in everything else was extremely simple, but it took my
inexperience by surprise.

It must have been on my third visit that Sybil took me in hand. Hitherto I seemed to have seen
her only in profile, but now she became almost completely full face, manifestly regarded me
with those violet eyes of hers. She passed me things I needed at breakfast--it was the first
morning of my visit--before I asked for them.

When young men are looked at by pretty cousins, they become intensely aware of those cousins.
It seemed to me that I had always admired Sybil's eyes very greatly, and that there was something
in her temperament congenial to mine. It was odd I had not noted it on my previous visits.

We walked round the garden somewhen that morning, and talked about Cambridge. She asked quite
a lot of questions about my work and my ambitions. She said she had always felt sure I was clever.

The conversation languished a little, and we picked some flowers for the house. Then she asked
if I could run. I conceded her various starts and we raced up and down the middle garden path.
Then, a little breathless, we went into the new twenty-five guinea summer-house at the end
of the herbaceous border.

We sat side by side, pleasantly hidden from the house, and she became anxious about her hair,
which was slightly and prettily disarranged, and asked me to help her with the adjustment of
a hairpin. I had never in my life been so near the soft curly hair and the dainty eyebrow and
eyelid and warm soft cheek of a girl, and I was stirred--

It stirs me now to recall it.

I became a battleground of impulses and inhibitions.

"Thank you," said my cousin, and moved a little away from me.

She began to talk about friendship, and lost her thread and forgot the little electric stress
between us in a rather meandering analysis of her principal girl friends.

But afterwards she resumed her purpose.

I went to bed that night with one proposition overshadowing everything else in my mind, namely,
that kissing my cousin Sybil was a difficult, but not impossible, achievement. I do not recall
any shadow of a doubt whether on the whole it was worth doing. The thing had come into my existence,
disturbing and interrupting its flow exactly as a fever does. Sybil had infected me with herself.

The next day matters came to a crisis in the little upstairs sitting-room which had been assigned
me as a study during my visit. I was working up there, or rather trying to work in spite of
the outrageous capering of some very primitive elements in my brain, when she came up to me,
under a transparent pretext of looking for a book.

I turned round and then got up at the sight of her. I quite forget what our conversation was
about, but I know she led me to believe I might kiss her. Then when I attempted to do so she
averted her face.

"How COULD you?" she said; "I didn't mean that!"

That remained the state of our relations for two days. I developed a growing irritation with
and resentment against cousin Sybil, combined with an intense desire to get that kiss for which
I hungered and thirsted. Cousin Sybil went about in the happy persuasion that I was madly in
love with her, and her game, so far as she was concerned, was played and won. It wasn't until
I had fretted for two days that I realised that I was being used for the commonest form of
excitement possible to a commonplace girl; that dozens perhaps of young men had played the
part of Tantalus at cousin Sybil's lips. I walked about my room at nights, damning her and
calling her by terms which on the whole she rather deserved, while Sybil went to sleep pitying
"poor old Dick!"

"Damn it!" I said, "I WILL be equal with you."

But I never did equalise the disadvantage, and perhaps it's as well, for I fancy that sort
of revenge cuts both people too much for a rational man to seek it....

"Why are men so silly?" said cousin Sybil next morning, wriggling back with down-bent head
to release herself from what should have been a compelling embrace.

"Confound it!" I said with a flash of clear vision. "You STARTED this game."

"Oh!"

She stood back against a hedge of roses, a little flushed and excited and interested, and ready
for the delightful defensive if I should renew my attack.

"Beastly hot for scuffling," I said, white with anger. "I don't know whether I'm so keen on
kissing you, Sybil, after all. I just thought you wanted me to."

I could have whipped her, and my voice stung more than my words.

Our eyes met; a real hatred in hers leaping up to meet mine.

"Let's play tennis," I said, after a moment's pause.

"No," she answered shortly, "I'm going indoors."

"Very well."

And that ended the affair with Sybil.

I was still in the full glare of this disillusionment when Gertrude awoke from some preoccupation
to an interest in my existence. She developed a disposition to touch my hand by accident, and
let her fingers rest in contact with it for a moment,--she had pleasant soft hands;--she began
to drift into summer houses with me, to let her arm rest trustfully against mine, to ask questions
about Cambridge. They were much the same questions that Sybil had asked. But I controlled myself
and maintained a profile of intelligent and entirely civil indifference to her blandishments.

What Gertrude made of it came out one evening in some talk--I forget about what--with Sybil.

"Oh, Dick!" said Gertrude a little impatiently, "Dick's Pi."

And I never disillusioned her by any subsequent levity from this theory of my innate and virginal
piety.

6

It was against this harsh and crude Staffordshire background that I think I must have seen
Margaret for the first time. I say I think because it is quite possible that we had passed
each other in the streets of Cambridge, no doubt with that affectation of mutual disregard
which was once customary between undergraduates and Newnham girls. But if that was so I had
noted nothing of the slender graciousness that shone out so pleasingly against the bleaker
midland surroundings.

She was a younger schoolfellow of my cousins', and the step-daughter of Seddon, a prominent
solicitor of Burslem. She was not only not in my cousins' generation but not in their set,
she was one of a small hardworking group who kept immaculate note-books, and did as much as
is humanly possible of that insensate pile of written work that the Girls' Public School movement
has inflicted upon school-girls. She really learnt French and German admirably and thoroughly,
she got as far in mathematics as an unflinching industry can carry any one with no great natural
aptitude, and she went up to Bennett Hall, Newnham, after the usual conflict with her family,
to work for the History Tripos.

There in her third year she made herself thoroughly ill through overwork, so ill that she had
to give up Newnham altogether and go abroad with her stepmother. She made herself ill, as so
many girls do in those university colleges, through the badness of her home and school training.
She thought study must needs be a hard straining of the mind. She worried her work, she gave
herself no leisure to see it as a whole, she felt herself not making headway and she cut her
games and exercise in order to increase her hours of toil, and worked into the night. She carried
a knack of laborious thoroughness into the blind alleys and inessentials of her subject. It
didn't need the badness of the food for which Bennett Hall is celebrated and the remarkable
dietary of nocturnal cocoa, cakes and soft biscuits with which the girls have supplemented
it, to ensure her collapse. Her mother brought her home, fretting and distressed, and then
finding her hopelessly unhappy at home, took her and her half-brother, a rather ailing youngster
of ten who died three years later, for a journey to Italy.

Italy did much to assuage Margaret's chagrin. I think all three of them had a very good time
there. At home Mr. Seddon, her step-father, played the part of a well-meaning blight by reason
of the moods that arose from nervous dyspepsia. They went to Florence, equipped with various
introductions and much sound advice from sympathetic Cambridge friends, and having acquired
an ease in Italy there, went on to Siena, Orvieto, and at last Rome. They returned, if I remember
rightly, by Pisa, Genoa, Milan and Paris. Six months or more they had had abroad, and now Margaret
was back in Burslem, in health again and consciously a very civilised person.

New ideas were abroad, it was Maytime and a spring of abundant flowers--daffodils were particularly
good that year--and Mrs. Seddon celebrated her return by giving an afternoon reception at short
notice, with the clear intention of letting every one out into the garden if the weather held.

The Seddons had a big old farmhouse modified to modern ideas of comfort on the road out towards
Misterton, with an orchard that had been rather pleasantly subdued from use to ornament. It
had rich blossoming cherry and apple trees. Large patches of grass full of nodding yellow trumpets
had been left amidst the not too precisely mown grass, which was as it were grass path with
an occasional lapse into lawn or glade. And Margaret, hatless, with the fair hair above her
thin, delicately pink face very simply done, came to meet our rather too consciously dressed
party,--we had come in the motor four strong, with my aunt in grey silk. Margaret wore a soft
flowing flowered blue dress of diaphanous material, all unconnected with the fashion and tied
with pretty ribbons, like a slenderer, unbountiful Primavera.

It was one of those May days that ape the light and heat of summer, and I remember disconnectedly
quite a number of brightly lit figures and groups walking about, and a white gate between orchard
and garden and a large lawn with an oak tree and a red Georgian house with a verandah and open
French windows, through which the tea drinking had come out upon the moss-edged flagstones
even as Mrs. Seddon had planned.

The party was almost entirely feminine except for a little curate with a large head, a good
voice and a radiant manner, who was obviously attracted by Margaret, and two or three young
husbands still sufficiently addicted to their wives to accompany them. One of them I recall
as a quite romantic figure with abundant blond curly hair on which was poised a grey felt hat
encircled by a refined black band. He wore, moreover, a loose rich shot silk tie of red and
purple, a long frock coat, grey trousers and brown shoes, and presently he removed his hat
and carried it in one hand. There were two tennis-playing youths besides myself. There was
also one father with three daughters in anxious control, a father of the old school scarcely
half broken in, reluctant, rebellious and consciously and conscientiously "reet Staffordshire."
The daughters were all alert to suppress the possible plungings, the undesirable humorous impulses
of this almost feral guest. They nipped his very gestures in the bud. The rest of the people
were mainly mothers with daughters--daughters of all ages, and a scattering of aunts, and there
was a tendency to clotting, parties kept together and regarded parties suspiciously. Mr. Seddon
was in hiding, I think, all the time, though not formally absent.

Matters centred upon the tea in the long room of the French windows, where four trim maids
went to and fro busily between the house and the clumps of people seated or standing before
it; and tennis and croquet were intermittently visible and audible beyond a bank of rockwork
rich with the spikes and cups and bells of high spring.

Mrs. Seddon presided at the tea urn, and Margaret partly assisted and partly talked to me and
my cousin Sibyl--Gertrude had found a disused and faded initial and was partnering him at tennis
in a state of gentle revival--while their mother exercised a divided chaperonage from a seat
near Mrs. Seddon. The little curate, stirring a partially empty cup of tea, mingled with our
party, and preluded, I remember, every observation he made by a vigorous resumption of stirring.

We talked of Cambridge, and Margaret kept us to it. The curate was a Selwyn man and had taken
a pass degree in theology, but Margaret had come to Gaylord's lecturers in Trinity for a term
before her breakdown, and understood these differences. She had the eagerness of an exile to
hear the old familiar names of places and personalities. We capped familiar anecdotes and were
enthusiastic about Kings' Chapel and the Backs, and the curate, addressing himself more particularly
to Sibyl, told a long confused story illustrative of his disposition to reckless devilry (of
a pure-minded kindly sort) about upsetting two canoes quite needlessly on the way to Grantchester.

I can still see Margaret as I saw her that afternoon, see her fresh fair face, with the little
obliquity of the upper lip, and her brow always slightly knitted, and her manner as of one
breathlessly shy but determined. She had rather open blue eyes, and she spoke in an even musical
voice with the gentlest of stresses and the ghost of a lisp. And it was true, she gathered,
that Cambridge still existed. "I went to Grantchester," she said, "last year, and had tea under
the apple-blossom. I didn't think then I should have to come down." (It was that started the
curate upon his anecdote.)

"I've seen a lot of pictures, and learnt a lot about them--at the Pitti and the Brera,--the
Brera is wonderful--wonderful places,--but it isn't like real study," she was saying presently....
"We bought bales of photographs," she said.

I thought the bales a little out of keeping.

But fair-haired and quite simply and yet graciously and fancifully dressed, talking of art
and beautiful things and a beautiful land, and with so much manifest regret for learning denied,
she seemed a different kind of being altogether from my smart, hard, high-coloured, black-haired
and resolutely hatted cousin; she seemed translucent beside Gertrude. Even the little twist
and droop of her slender body was a grace to me.

I liked her from the moment I saw her, and set myself to interest and please her as well as
I knew how.

We recalled a case of ragging that had rustled the shrubs of Newnham, and then Chris Robinson's
visit--he had given a talk to Bennett Hall also--and our impression of him.

"He disappointed me, too," said Margaret.

I was moved to tell Margaret something of my own views in the matter of social progress, and
she listened--oh! with a kind of urged attention, and her brow a little more knitted, very
earnestly. The little curate desisted from the appendices and refuse heaps and general debris
of his story, and made himself look very alert and intelligent.

"We did a lot of that when I was up in the eighties," he said. "I'm glad Imperialism hasn't
swamped you fellows altogether."

Gertrude, looking bright and confident, came to join our talk from the shrubbery; the initial,
a little flushed and evidently in a state of refreshed relationship, came with her, and a cheerful
lady in pink and more particularly distinguished by a pink bonnet joined our little group.
Gertrude had been sipping admiration and was not disposed to play a passive part in the talk.

"Socialism!" she cried, catching the word. "It's well Pa isn't here. He has Fits when people
talk of socialism. Fits!"

The initial laughed in a general kind of way.

The curate said there was socialism AND socialism, and looked at Margaret to gauge whether
he had been too bold in this utterance. But she was all, he perceived, for broad-mindness,
and he stirred himself (and incidentally his tea) to still more liberality of expression. He
said the state of the poor was appalling, simply appalling; that there were times when he wanted
to shatter the whole system, "only," he said, turning to me appealingly, "What have we got
to put in its place?"

"The thing that exists is always the more evident alternative," I said.

The little curate looked at it for a moment. "Precisely," he said explosively, and turned stirring
and with his head a little on one side, to hear what Margaret was saying.

Margaret was saying, with a swift blush and an effect of daring, that she had no doubt she
was a socialist.

"And wearing a gold chain!" said Gertrude, "And drinking out of eggshell! I like that!"

I came to Margaret's rescue. "It doesn't follow that because one's a socialist one ought to
dress in sackcloth and ashes."

The initial coloured deeply, and having secured my attention by prodding me slightly with the
wrist of the hand that held his teacup, cleared his throat and suggested that "one ought to
be consistent."

I perceived we were embarked upon a discussion of the elements. We began an interesting little
wrangle one of those crude discussions of general ideas that are dear to the heart of youth.
I and Margaret supported one another as socialists, Gertrude and Sybil and the initial maintained
an anti-socialist position, the curate attempted a cross-bench position with an air of intending
to come down upon us presently with a casting vote. He reminded us of a number of useful principles
too often overlooked in argument, that in a big question like this there was much to be said
on both sides, that if every one did his or her duty to every one about them there would be
no difficulty with social problems at all, that over and above all enactments we needed moral
changes in people themselves. My cousin Gertrude was a difficult controversialist to manage,
being unconscious of inconsistency in statement and absolutely impervious to reply. Her standpoint
was essentially materialistic; she didn't see why she shouldn't have a good time because other
people didn't; they would have a good time, she was sure, if she didn't. She said that if we
did give up everything we had to other people, they wouldn't very likely know what to do with
it. She asked if we were so fond of work-people, why we didn't go and live among them, and
expressed the inflexible persuasion that if we HAD socialism, everything would be just the
same again in ten years' time. She also threw upon us the imputation of ingratitude for a beautiful
world by saying that so far as she was concerned she didn't want to upset everything. She was
contented with things as they were, thank you.

The discussion led in some way that I don't in the least recall now, and possibly by abrupt
transitions, to a croquet foursome in which Margaret involved the curate without involving
herself, and then stood beside me on the edge of the lawn while the others played. We watched
silently for a moment.

"I HATE that sort of view," she said suddenly in a confidential undertone, with her delicate
pink flush returning.

"It's want of imagination," I said.

"To think we are just to enjoy ourselves," she went on; "just to go on dressing and playing
and having meals and spending money!" She seemed to be referring not simply to my cousins,
but to the whole world of industry and property about us. "But what is one to do?" she asked.
"I do wish I had not had to come down. It's all so pointless here. There seems to be nothing
going forward, no ideas, no dreams. No one here seems to feel quite what I feel, the sort of
need there is for MEANING in things. I hate things without meaning."

"Don't you do--local work?"

"I suppose I shall. I suppose I must find something. Do you think--if one were to attempt some
sort of propaganda?"

"Could you--?" I began a little doubtfully.

"I suppose I couldn't," she answered, after a thoughtful moment. "I suppose it would come to
nothing. And yet I feel there is so much to be done for the world, so much one ought to be
doing.... I want to do something for the world."

I can see her now as she stood there with her brows nearly frowning, her blue eyes looking
before her, her mouth almost petulant. "One feels that there are so many things going on--out
of one's reach," she said.

I went back in the motor-car with my mind full of her, the quality of delicate discontent,
the suggestion of exile. Even a kind of weakness in her was sympathetic. She told tremendously
against her background. She was, I say, like a protesting blue flower upon a cinder heap. It
is curious, too, how she connects and mingles with the furious quarrel I had with my uncle
that very evening. That came absurdly. Indirectly Margaret was responsible. My mind was running
on ideas she had revived and questions she had set clamouring, and quite inadvertently in my
attempt to find solutions I talked so as to outrage his profoundest feelings....

7

What a preposterous shindy that was!

I sat with him in the smoking-room, propounding what I considered to be the most indisputable
and non-contentious propositions conceivable--until, to my infinite amazement, he exploded
and called me a "damned young puppy."

It was seismic.

"Tremendously interesting time," I said, "just in the beginning of making a civilisation."

"Ah!" he said, with an averted face, and nodded, leaning forward over his cigar.

I had not the remotest thought of annoying him.

"Monstrous muddle of things we have got," I said, "jumbled streets, ugly population, ugly factories--"

"You'd do a sight better if you had to do with it," said my uncle, regarding me askance.

"Not me. But a world that had a collective plan and knew where it meant to be going would do
a sight better, anyhow. We're all swimming in a flood of ill-calculated chances--"

"You'll be making out I organised that business down there--by chance--next," said my uncle,
his voice thick with challenge.

I went on as though I was back in Trinity.

"There's a lot of chance in the making of all great businesses," I said.

My uncle remarked that that showed how much I knew about businesses. If chance made businesses,
why was it that he always succeeded and grew while those fools Ackroyd and Sons always took
second place? He showed a disposition to tell the glorious history of how once Ackroyd's overshadowed
him, and how now he could buy up Ackroyd's three times over. But I wanted to get out what was
in my mind.

"Oh!" I said, "as between man and man and business and business, some of course get the pull
by this quality or that--but it's forces quite outside the individual case that make the big
part of any success under modern conditions. YOU never invented pottery, nor any process in
pottery that matters a rap in your works; it wasn't YOUR foresight that joined all England
up with railways and made it possible to organise production on an altogether different scale.
You really at the utmost can't take credit for much more than being the sort of man who happened
to fit what happened to be the requirements of the time, and who happened to be in a position
to take advantage of them--"

It was then my uncle cried out and called me a damned young puppy, and became involved in some
unexpected trouble of his own.

I woke up as it were from my analysis of the situation to discover him bent over a splendid
spittoon, cursing incoherently, retching a little, and spitting out the end of his cigar which
he had bitten off in his last attempt at self-control, and withal fully prepared as soon as
he had cleared for action to give me just all that he considered to be the contents of his
mind upon the condition of mine.

Well, why shouldn't I talk my mind to him? He'd never had an outside view of himself for years,
and I resolved to stand up to him. We went at it hammer and tongs! It became clear that he
supposed me to be a Socialist, a zealous, embittered hater of all ownership--and also an educated
man of the vilest, most pretentiously superior description. His principal grievance was that
I thought I knew everything; to that he recurred again and again....

We had been maintaining an armed truce with each other since my resolve to go up to Cambridge,
and now we had out all that had accumulated between us. There had been stupendous accumulations....

The particular things we said and did in that bawling encounter matter nothing at all in this
story. I can't now estimate how near we came to fisticuffs. It ended with my saying, after
a pungent reminder of benefits conferred and remembered, that I didn't want to stay another
hour in his house. I went upstairs, in a state of puerile fury, to pack and go off to the Railway
Hotel, while he, with ironical civility, telephoned for a cab.

"Good riddance!" shouted my uncle, seeing me off into the night.

On the face of it our row was preposterous, but the underlying reality of our quarrel was the
essential antagonism, it seemed to me, in all human affairs, the antagonism between ideas and
the established method, that is to say, between ideas and the rule of thumb. The world I hate
is the rule-of-thumb world, the thing I and my kind of people exist for primarily is to battle
with that, to annoy it, disarrange it, reconstruct it. We question everything, disturb anything
that cannot give a clear justification to our questioning, because we believe inherently that
our sense of disorder implies the possibility of a better order. Of course we are detestable.
My uncle was of that other vaster mass who accept everything for the thing it seems to be,
hate enquiry and analysis as a tramp hates washing, dread and resist change, oppose experiment,
despise science. The world is our battleground; and all history, all literature that matters,
all science, deals with this conflict of the thing that is and the speculative "if" that will
destroy it.

But that is why I did not see Margaret Seddon again for five years.

CHAPTER THE SECOND ~~ MARGARET IN LONDON

1

I was twenty-seven when I met Margaret again, and the intervening five years had been years
of vigorous activity for me, if not of very remarkable growth. When I saw her again, I could
count myself a grown man. I think, indeed, I counted myself more completely grown than I was.
At any rate, by all ordinary standards, I had "got on" very well, and my ideas, if they had
not changed very greatly, had become much more definite and my ambitions clearer and bolder.

I had long since abandoned my fellowship and come to London. I had published two books that
had been talked about, written several articles, and established a regular relationship with
the WEEKLY REVIEW and the EVENING GAZETTE. I was a member of the Eighty Club and learning to
adapt the style of the Cambridge Union to larger uses. The London world had opened out to me
very readily. I had developed a pleasant variety of social connections. I had made the acquaintance
of Mr. Evesham, who had been attracted by my NEW RULER, and who talked about it and me, and
so did a very great deal to make a way for me into the company of prominent and amusing people.
I dined out quite frequently. The glitter and interest of good London dinner parties became
a common experience. I liked the sort of conversation one got at them extremely, the little
glow of duologues burning up into more general discussions, the closing-in of the men after
the going of the women, the sage, substantial masculine gossiping, the later resumption of
effective talk with some pleasant woman, graciously at her best. I had a wide range of houses;
Cambridge had linked me to one or two correlated sets of artistic and literary people, and
my books and Mr. Evesham and opened to me the big vague world of "society." I wasn't aggressive
nor particularly snobbish nor troublesome, sometimes I talked well, and if I had nothing interesting
to say I said as little as possible, and I had a youthful gravity of manner that was liked
by hostesses. And the other side of my nature that first flared through the cover of restraints
at Locarno, that too had had opportunity to develop along the line London renders practicable.
I had had my experiences and secrets and adventures among that fringe of ill-mated or erratic
or discredited women the London world possesses. The thing had long ago ceased to be a matter
of magic or mystery, and had become a question of appetites and excitement, and among other
things the excitement of not being found out.

I write rather doubtfully of my growing during this period. Indeed I find it hard to judge
whether I can say that I grew at all in any real sense of the word, between three and twenty
and twenty-seven. It seems to me now to have been rather a phase of realisation and clarification.
All the broad lines of my thought were laid down, I am sure, by the date of my Locarno adventure,
but in those five years I discussed things over and over again with myself and others, filled
out with concrete fact forms I had at first apprehended sketchily and conversationally, measured
my powers against my ideals and the forces in the world about me. It was evident that many
men no better than myself and with no greater advantages than mine had raised themselves to
influential and even decisive positions in the worlds of politics and thought. I was gathering
the confidence and knowledge necessary to attack the world in the large manner; I found I could
write, and that people would let me write if I chose, as one having authority and not as the
scribes. Socially and politically and intellectually I knew myself for an honest man, and that
quite without any deliberation on my part this showed and made things easy for me. People trusted
my good faith from the beginning--for all that I came from nowhere and had no better position
than any adventurer.

But the growth process was arrested, I was nothing bigger at twenty-seven than at twenty-two,
however much saner and stronger, and any one looking closely into my mind during that period
might well have imagined growth finished altogether. It is particularly evident to me now that
I came no nearer to any understanding of women during that time. That Locarno affair was infinitely
more to me than I had supposed. It ended something--nipped something in the bud perhaps--took
me at a stride from a vague, fine, ignorant, closed world of emotion to intrigue and a perfectly
definite and limited sensuality. It ended my youth, and for a time it prevented my manhood.
I had never yet even peeped at the sweetest, profoundest thing in the world, the heart and
meaning of a girl, or dreamt with any quality of reality of a wife or any such thing as a friend
among womanhood. My vague anticipation of such things in life had vanished altogether. I turned
away from their possibility. It seemed to me I knew what had to be known about womankind. I
wanted to work hard, to get on to a position in which I could develop and forward my constructive
projects. Women, I thought, had nothing to do with that. It seemed clear I could not marry
for some years; I was attractive to certain types of women, I had vanity enough to give me
an agreeable confidence in love-making, and I went about seeking a convenient mistress quite
deliberately, some one who should serve my purpose and say in the end, like that kindly first
mistress of mine, "I've done you no harm," and so release me. It seemed the only wise way of
disposing of urgencies that might otherwise entangle and wreck the career I was intent upon.

I don't apologise for, or defend my mental and moral phases. So it was I appraised life and
prepared to take it, and so it is a thousand ambitious men see it to-day....

For the rest these five years were a period of definition. My political conceptions were perfectly
plain and honest. I had one constant desire ruling my thoughts. I meant to leave England and
the empire better ordered than I found it, to organise and discipline, to build up a constructive
and controlling State out of my world's confusions. We had, I saw, to suffuse education with
public intention, to develop a new better-living generation with a collectivist habit of thought,
to link now chaotic activities in every human affair, and particularly to catch that escaped,
world-making, world-ruining, dangerous thing, industrial and financial enterprise, and bring
it back to the service of the general good. I had then the precise image that still serves
me as a symbol for all I wish to bring about, the image of an engineer building a lock in a
swelling torrent--with water pressure as his only source of power. My thoughts and acts were
habitually turned to that enterprise; it gave shape and direction to all my life. The problem
that most engaged my mind during those years was the practical and personal problem of just
where to apply myself to serve this almost innate purpose. How was I, a child of this confusion,
struggling upward through the confusion, to take hold of things? Somewhere between politics
and literature my grip must needs be found, but where? Always I seem to have been looking for
that in those opening years, and disregarding everything else to discover it.

2

The Baileys, under whose auspices I met Margaret again, were in the sharpest contrast with
the narrow industrialism of the Staffordshire world. They were indeed at the other extreme
of the scale, two active self-centred people, excessively devoted to the public service. It
was natural I should gravitate to them, for they seemed to stand for the maturer, more disciplined,
better informed expression of all I was then urgent to attempt to do. The bulk of their friends
were politicians or public officials, they described themselves as publicists--a vague yet
sufficiently significant term. They lived and worked in a hard little house in Chambers Street,
Westminster, and made a centre for quite an astonishing amount of political and social activity.

Willersley took me there one evening. The place was almost pretentiously matter-of-fact and
unassuming. The narrow passage-hall, papered with some ancient yellowish paper, grained to
imitate wood, was choked with hats and cloaks and an occasional feminine wrap. Motioned rather
than announced by a tall Scotch servant woman, the only domestic I ever remember seeing there,
we made our way up a narrow staircase past the open door of a small study packed with blue-books,
to discover Altiora Bailey receiving before the fireplace in her drawing-room. She was a tall
commanding figure, splendid but a little untidy in black silk and red beads, with dark eyes
that had no depths, with a clear hard voice that had an almost visible prominence, aquiline
features and straight black hair that was apt to get astray, that was now astray like the head
feathers of an eagle in a gale. She stood with her hands behind her back, and talked in a high
tenor of a projected Town Planning Bill with Blupp, who was practically in those days the secretary
of the local Government Board. A very short broad man with thick ears and fat white hands writhing
intertwined behind him, stood with his back to us, eager to bark interruptions into Altiora's
discourse. A slender girl in pale blue, manifestly a young political wife, stood with one foot
on the fender listening with an expression of entirely puzzled propitiation. A tall sandy-bearded
bishop with the expression of a man in a trance completed this central group.

The room was one of those long apartments once divided by folding doors, and reaching from
back to front, that are common upon the first floors of London houses. Its walls were hung
with two or three indifferent water colours, there was scarcely any furniture but a sofa or
so and a chair, and the floor, severely carpeted with matting, was crowded with a curious medley
of people, men predominating. Several were in evening dress, but most had the morning garb
of the politician; the women were either severely rational or radiantly magnificent. Willersley
pointed out to me the wife of the Secretary of State for War, and I recognised the Duchess
of Clynes, who at that time cultivated intellectuality. I looked round, identifying a face
here or there, and stepping back trod on some one's toe, and turned to find it belonged to
the Right Hon. G. B. Mottisham, dear to the PUNCH caricaturists. He received my apology with
that intentional charm that is one of his most delightful traits, and resumed his discussion.
Beside him was Esmeer of Trinity, whom I had not seen since my Cambridge days....

Willersley found an ex-member of the School Board for whom he had affinities, and left me to
exchange experiences and comments upon the company with Esmeer. Esmeer was still a don; but
he was nibbling, he said, at certain negotiations with the TIMES that might bring him down
to London. He wanted to come to London. "We peep at things from Cambridge," he said.

"This sort of thing," I said, "makes London necessary. It's the oddest gathering."

"Every one comes here," said Esmeer. "Mostly we hate them like poison--jealousy--and little
irritations--Altiora can be a horror at times--but we HAVE to come."

"Things are being done?"

"Oh!--no doubt of it. It's one of the parts of the British machinery--that doesn't show....
But nobody else could do it.

"Two people," said Esmeer, "who've planned to be a power--in an original way. And by Jove!
they've done it!"

I did not for some time pick out Oscar Bailey, and then Esmeer showed him to me in elaborately
confidential talk in a corner with a distinguished-looking stranger wearing a ribbon. Oscar
had none of the fine appearance of his wife; he was a short sturdy figure with a rounded protruding
abdomen and a curious broad, flattened, clean-shaven face that seemed nearly all forehead.
He was of Anglo-Hungarian extraction, and I have always fancied something Mongolian in his
type. He peered up with reddish swollen-looking eyes over gilt-edged glasses that were divided
horizontally into portions of different refractive power, and he talking in an ingratiating
undertone, with busy thin lips, an eager lisp and nervous movements of the hand.

People say that thirty years before at Oxford he was almost exactly the same eager, clever
little man he was when I first met him. He had come up to Balliol bristling with extraordinary
degrees and prizes captured in provincial and Irish and Scotch universities--and had made a
name for himself as the most formidable dealer in exact fact the rhetoricians of the Union
had ever had to encounter. From Oxford he had gone on to a position in the Higher Division
of the Civil Service, I think in the War Office, and had speedily made a place for himself
as a political journalist. He was a particularly neat controversialist, and very full of political
and sociological ideas. He had a quite astounding memory for facts and a mastery of detailed
analysis, and the time afforded scope for these gifts. The later eighties were full of politico-social
discussion, and he became a prominent name upon the contents list of the NINETEENTH CENTURY,
the FORTNIGHTLY and CONTEMPORARY chiefly as a half sympathetic but frequently very damaging
critic of the socialism of that period. He won the immense respect of every one specially interested
in social and political questions, he soon achieved the limited distinction that is awarded
such capacity, and at that I think he would have remained for the rest of his life if he had
not encountered Altiora.

But Altiora Macvitie was an altogether exceptional woman, an extraordinary mixture of qualities,
the one woman in the world who could make something more out of Bailey than that. She had much
of the vigour and handsomeness of a slender impudent young man, and an unscrupulousness altogether
feminine. She was one of those women who are waiting in--what is the word?--muliebrity. She
had courage and initiative and a philosophical way of handling questions, and she could be
bored by regular work like a man. She was entirely unfitted for her sex's sphere. She was neither
uncertain, coy nor hard to please, and altogether too stimulating and aggressive for any gentleman's
hours of ease. Her cookery would have been about as sketchy as her handwriting, which was generally
quite illegible, and she would have made, I feel sure, a shocking bad nurse. Yet you mustn't
imagine she was an inelegant or unbeautiful woman, and she is inconceivable to me in high collars
or any sort of masculine garment. But her soul was bony, and at the base of her was a vanity
gaunt and greedy! When she wasn't in a state of personal untidiness that was partly a protest
against the waste of hours exacted by the toilet and partly a natural disinclination, she had
a gypsy splendour of black and red and silver all her own. And somewhen in the early nineties
she met and married Bailey.

I know very little about her early years. She was the only daughter of Sir Deighton Macvitie,
who applied the iodoform process to cotton, and only his subsequent unfortunate attempts to
become a Cotton King prevented her being a very rich woman. As it was she had a tolerable independence.
She came into prominence as one of the more able of the little shoal of young women who were
led into politico-philanthropic activities by the influence of the earlier novels of Mrs. Humphry
Ward--the Marcella crop. She went "slumming" with distinguished vigour, which was quite usual
in those days--and returned from her experiences as an amateur flower girl with clear and original
views about the problem--which is and always had been unusual. She had not married, I suppose
because her standards were high, and men are cowards and with an instinctive appetite for muliebrity.
She had kept house for her father by speaking occasionally to the housekeeper, butler and cook
her mother had left her, and gathering the most interesting dinner parties she could, and had
married off four orphan nieces in a harsh and successful manner. After her father's smash and
death she came out as a writer upon social questions and a scathing critic of the Charity Organisation
Society, and she was three and thirty and a little at loose ends when she met Oscar Bailey,
so to speak, in the CONTEMPORARY REVIEW. The lurking woman in her nature was fascinated by
the ease and precision with which the little man rolled over all sorts of important and authoritative
people, she was the first to discover a sort of imaginative bigness in his still growing mind,
the forehead perhaps carried him off physically, and she took occasion to meet and subjugate
him, and, so soon as he had sufficiently recovered from his abject humility and a certain panic
at her attentions, marry him.

This had opened a new phase in the lives of Bailey and herself. The two supplemented each other
to an extraordinary extent. Their subsequent career was, I think, almost entirely her invention.
She was aggressive, imaginative, and had a great capacity for ideas, while he was almost destitute
of initiative, and could do nothing with ideas except remember and discuss them. She was, if
not exact, at least indolent, with a strong disposition to save energy by sketching--even her
handwriting showed that--while he was inexhaustibly industrious with a relentless invariable
calligraphy that grew larger and clearer as the years passed by. She had a considerable power
of charming; she could be just as nice to people--and incidentally just as nasty--as she wanted
to be. He was always just the same, a little confidential and SOTTO VOCE, artlessly rude and
egoistic in an undignified way. She had considerable social experience, good social connections,
and considerable social ambition, while he had none of these things. She saw in a flash her
opportunity to redeem his defects, use his powers, and do large, novel, rather startling things.
She ran him. Her marriage, which shocked her friends and relations beyond measure--for a time
they would only speak of Bailey as "that gnome"--was a stroke of genius, and forthwith they
proceeded to make themselves the most formidable and distinguished couple conceivable. P. B.
P., she boasted, was engraved inside their wedding rings, Pro Bono Publico, and she meant it
to be no idle threat. She had discovered very early that the last thing influential people
will do is to work. Everything in their lives tends to make them dependent upon a supply of
confidently administered detail. Their business is with the window and not the stock behind,
and in the end they are dependent upon the stock behind for what goes into the window. She
linked with that the fact that Bailey had a mind as orderly as a museum, and an invincible
power over detail. She saw that if two people took the necessary pains to know the facts of
government and administration with precision, to gather together knowledge that was dispersed
and confused, to be able to say precisely what had to be done and what avoided in this eventuality
or that, they would necessarily become a centre of reference for all sorts of legislative proposals
and political expedients, and she went unhesitatingly upon that.

Bailey, under her vigorous direction, threw up his post in the Civil Service and abandoned
sporadic controversies, and they devoted themselves to the elaboration and realisation of this
centre of public information she had conceived as their role. They set out to study the methods
and organisation and realities of government in the most elaborate manner. They did the work
as no one had ever hitherto dreamt of doing it. They planned the research on a thoroughly satisfying
scale, and arranged their lives almost entirely for it. They took that house in Chambers Street
and furnished it with severe economy, they discovered that Scotch domestic who is destined
to be the guardian and tyrant of their declining years, and they set to work. Their first book,
"The Permanent Official," fills three plump volumes, and took them and their two secretaries
upwards of four years to do. It is an amazingly good book, an enduring achievement. In a hundred
directions the history and the administrative treatment of the public service was clarified
for all time....

They worked regularly every morning from nine to twelve, they lunched lightly but severely,
in the afternoon they "took exercise" or Bailey attended meetings of the London School Board,
on which he served, he said, for the purposes of study--he also became a railway director for
the same end. In the late afternoon Altiora was at home to various callers, and in the evening
came dinner or a reception or both.

Her dinners and gatherings were a very important feature in their scheme. She got together
all sorts of interesting people in or about the public service, she mixed the obscurely efficient
with the ill-instructed famous and the rudderless rich, got together in one room more of the
factors in our strange jumble of a public life than had ever met easily before. She fed them
with a shameless austerity that kept the conversation brilliant, on a soup, a plain fish, and
mutton or boiled fowl and milk pudding, with nothing to drink but whisky and soda, and hot
and cold water, and milk and lemonade. Everybody was soon very glad indeed to come to that.
She boasted how little her housekeeping cost her, and sought constantly for fresh economies
that would enable her, she said, to sustain an additional private secretary. Secretaries were
the Baileys' one extravagance, they loved to think of searches going on in the British Museum,
and letters being cleared up and precis made overhead, while they sat in the little study and
worked together, Bailey with a clockwork industry, and Altiora in splendid flashes between
intervals of cigarettes and meditation. "All efficient public careers," said Altiora, "consist
in the proper direction of secretaries."

"If everything goes well I shall have another secretary next year," Altiora told me. "I wish
I could refuse people dinner napkins. Imagine what it means in washing! I dare most things....
But as it is, they stand a lot of hardship here."

"There's something of the miser in both these people," said Esmeer, and the thing was perfectly
true. For, after all, the miser is nothing more than a man who either through want of imagination
or want of suggestion misapplies to a base use a natural power of concentration upon one end.
The concentration itself is neither good nor evil, but a power that can be used in either way.
And the Baileys gathered and reinvested usuriously not money, but knowledge of the utmost value
in human affairs. They produced an effect of having found themselves--completely. One envied
them at times extraordinarily. I was attracted, I was dazzled--and at the same time there was
something about Bailey's big wrinkled forehead, his lisping broad mouth, the gestures of his
hands and an uncivil preoccupation I could not endure....

3

Their effect upon me was from the outset very considerable.

Both of them found occasion on that first visit of mine to talk to me about my published writings
and particularly about my then just published book THE NEW RULER, which had interested them
very much. It fell in indeed so closely with their own way of thinking that I doubt if they
ever understood how independently I had arrived at my conclusions. It was their weakness to
claim excessively. That irritation, however, came later. We discovered each other immensely;
for a time it produced a tremendous sense of kindred and co-operation.

Altiora, I remember, maintained that there existed a great army of such constructive-minded
people as ourselves--as yet undiscovered by one another.

"It's like boring a tunnel through a mountain," said Oscar, "and presently hearing the tapping
of the workers from the other end."

"If you didn't know of them beforehand," I said, "it might be a rather badly joined tunnel."

"Exactly," said Altiora with a high note, "and that's why we all want to find out each other...."

They didn't talk like that on our first encounter, but they urged me to lunch with them next
day, and then it was we went into things. A woman Factory Inspector and the Educational Minister
for New Banksland and his wife were also there, but I don't remember they made any contribution
to the conversation. The Baileys saw to that. They kept on at me in an urgent litigious way.

"We have read your book," each began--as though it had been a joint function. "And we consider--"

"Yes," I protested, "I think--"

 That was a secondary matter.

"They did not consider," said Altiora, raising her voice and going right over me, "that I had
allowed sufficiently for the inevitable development of an official administrative class in
the modern state."

"Nor of its importance," echoed Oscar.

That, they explained in a sort of chorus, was the cardinal idea of their lives, what they were
up to, what they stood for. "We want to suggest to you," they said--and I found this was a
stock opening of theirs--"that from the mere necessities of convenience elected bodies MUST
avail themselves more and more of the services of expert officials. We have that very much
in mind. The more complicated and technical affairs become, the less confidence will the elected
official have in himself. We want to suggest that these expert officials must necessarily develop
into a new class and a very powerful class in the community. We want to organise that. It may
be THE power of the future. They will necessarily have to have very much of a common training.
We consider ourselves as amateur unpaid precursors of such a class."...

The vision they displayed for my consideration as the aim of public-spirited endeavour, seemed
like a harder, narrower, more specialised version of the idea of a trained and disciplined
state that Willersley and I had worked out in the Alps. They wanted things more organised,
more correlated with government and a collective purpose, just as we did, but they saw it not
in terms of a growing collective understanding, but in terms of functionaries, legislative
change, and methods of administration....

It wasn't clear at first how we differed. The Baileys were very anxious to win me to co-operation,
and I was quite prepared at first to identify their distinctive expressions with phrases of
my own, and so we came very readily into an alliance that was to last some years, and break
at last very painfully. Altiora manifestly liked me, I was soon discussing with her the perplexity
I found in placing myself efficiently in the world, the problem of how to take hold of things
that occupied my thoughts, and she was sketching out careers for my consideration, very much
as an architect on his first visit sketches houses, considers requirements, and puts before
you this example and that of the more or less similar thing already done....

4

It is easy to see how much in common there was between the Baileys and me, and how natural
it was that I should become a constant visitor at their house and an ally of theirs in many
enterprises. It is not nearly so easy to define the profound antagonism of spirit that also
held between us. There was a difference in texture, a difference in quality. How can I express
it? The shapes of our thoughts were the same, but the substance quite different. It was as
if they had made in china or cast iron what I had made in transparent living matter. (The comparison
is manifestly from my point of view.) Certain things never seemed to show through their ideas
that were visible, refracted perhaps and distorted, but visible always through mine.

I thought for a time the essential difference lay in our relation to beauty. With me beauty
is quite primary in life; I like truth, order and goodness, wholly because they are beautiful
or lead straight to beautiful consequences. The Baileys either hadn't got that or they didn't
see it. They seemed at times to prefer things harsh and ugly. That puzzled me extremely. The
esthetic quality of many of their proposals, the "manners" of their work, so to speak, were
at times as dreadful as--well, War Office barrack architecture. A caricature by its exaggerated
statements will sometimes serve to point a truth by antagonising falsity and falsity. I remember
talking to a prominent museum official in need of more public funds for the work he had in
hand. I mentioned the possibility of enlisting Bailey's influence.

"Oh, we don't want Philistines like that infernal Bottle-Imp running us," he said hastily,
and would hear of no concerted action for the end he had in view. "I'd rather not have the
extension.

"You see," he went on to explain, "Bailey's wanting in the essentials."

"What essentials?" said I.

"Oh! he'd be like a nasty oily efficient little machine for some merely subordinate necessity
among all my delicate stuff. He'd do all we wanted no doubt in the way of money and powers--and
he'd do it wrong and mess the place for ever. Hands all black, you know. He's just a means.
Just a very aggressive and unmanageable means. This isn't a plumber's job...."

I stuck to my argument.

"I don't LIKE him," said the official conclusively, and it seemed to me at the time he was
just blind prejudice speaking....

I came nearer the truth of the matter as I came to realise that our philosophies differed profoundly.
That isn't a very curable difference,--once people have grown up. Theirs was a philosophy devoid
of FINESSE. Temperamentally the Baileys were specialised, concentrated, accurate, while I am
urged either by some Inner force or some entirely assimilated influence in my training, always
to round off and shadow my outlines. I hate them hard. I would sacrifice detail to modelling
always, and the Baileys, it seemed to me, loved a world as flat and metallic as Sidney Cooper's
cows. If they had the universe in hand I know they would take down all the trees and put up
stamped tin green shades and sunlight accumulators. Altiora thought trees hopelessly irregular
and sea cliffs a great mistake.... I got things clearer as time went on. Though it was an Hegelian
mess of which I had partaken at Codger's table by way of a philosophical training, my sympathies
have always been Pragmatist. I belong almost by nature to that school of Pragmatism that, following
the medieval Nominalists, bases itself upon a denial of the reality of classes, and of the
validity of general laws. The Baileys classified everything. They were, in the scholastic sense--which
so oddly contradicts the modern use of the word "Realists." They believed classes were REAL
and independent of their individuals. This is the common habit of all so-called educated people
who have no metaphysical aptitude and no metaphysical training. It leads them to a progressive
misunderstanding of the world. It was a favourite trick of Altiora's to speak of everybody
as a "type"; she saw men as samples moving; her dining-room became a chamber of representatives.
It gave a tremendously scientific air to many of their generalisations, using "scientific"
in its nineteenth-century uncritical Herbert Spencer sense, an air that only began to disappear
when you thought them over again in terms of actuality and the people one knew....

At the Baileys' one always seemed to be getting one's hands on the very strings that guided
the world. You heard legislation projected to affect this "type" and that; statistics marched
by you with sin and shame and injustice and misery reduced to quite manageable percentages,
you found men who were to frame or amend bills in grave and intimate exchange with Bailey's
omniscience, you heard Altiora canvassing approaching resignations and possible appointments
that might make or mar a revolution in administrative methods, and doing it with a vigorous
directness that manifestly swayed the decision; and you felt you were in a sort of signal box
with levers all about you, and the world outside there, albeit a little dark and mysterious
beyond the window, running on its lines in ready obedience to these unhesitating lights, true
and steady to trim termini.

And then with all this administrative fizzle, this pseudo-scientific administrative chatter,
dying away in your head, out you went into the limitless grimy chaos of London streets and
squares, roads and avenues lined with teeming houses, each larger than the Chambers Street
house and at least equally alive, you saw the chaotic clamour of hoardings, the jumble of traffic,
the coming and going of mysterious myriads, you heard the rumble of traffic like the noise
of a torrent; a vague incessant murmur of cries and voices, wanton crimes and accidents bawled
at you from the placards; imperative unaccountable fashions swaggered triumphant in dazzling
windows of the shops; and you found yourself swaying back to the opposite conviction that the
huge formless spirit of the world it was that held the strings and danced the puppets on the
Bailey stage....

Under the lamps you were jostled by people like my Staffordshire uncle out for a spree, you
saw shy youths conversing with prostitutes, you passed young lovers pairing with an entire
disregard of the social suitability of the "types" they might blend or create, you saw men
leaning drunken against lamp-posts whom you knew for the "type" that will charge with fixed
bayonets into the face of death, and you found yourself unable to imagine little Bailey achieving
either drunkenness or the careless defiance of annihilation. You realised that quite a lot
of types were underrepresented in Chambers Street, that feral and obscure and altogether monstrous
forces must be at work, as yet altogether unassimilated by those neat administrative reorganisations.

5

Altiora, I remember, preluded Margaret's reappearance by announcing her as a "new type."

I was accustomed to go early to the Baileys' dinners in those days, for a preliminary gossip
with Altiora in front of her drawing-room fire. One got her alone, and that early arrival was
a little sign of appreciation she valued. She had every woman's need of followers and servants.

"I'm going to send you down to-night," she said, "with a very interesting type indeed--one
of the new generation of serious gals. Middle-class origin--and quite well off. Rich in fact.
Her step-father was a solicitor and something of an ENTREPRENEUR towards the end, I fancy--in
the Black Country. There was a little brother died, and she's lost her mother quite recently.
Quite on her own, so to speak. She's never been out into society very much, and doesn't seem
really very anxious to go.... Not exactly an intellectual person, you know, but quiet, and
great force of character. Came up to London on her own and came to us--someone had told her
we were the sort of people to advise her--to ask what to do. I'm sure she'll interest you."

"What CAN people of that sort do?" I asked. "Is she capable of investigation?"

Altiora compressed her lips and shook her head. She always did shake her head when you asked
that of anyone.

"Of course what she ought to do," said Altiora, with her silk dress pulled back from her knee
before the fire, and with a lift of her voice towards a chuckle at her daring way of putting
things, "is to marry a member of Parliament and see he does his work.... Perhaps she will.
It's a very exceptional gal who can do anything by herself--quite exceptional. The more serious
they are--without being exceptional--the more we want them to marry."

Her exposition was truncated by the entry of the type in question.

"Well!" cried Altiora turning, and with a high note of welcome, "HERE you are!"

Margaret had gained in dignity and prettiness by the lapse of five years, and she was now very
beautifully and richly and simply dressed. Her fair hair had been done in some way that made
it seem softer and more abundant than it was in my memory, and a gleam of purple velvet-set
diamonds showed amidst its mist of little golden and brown lines. Her dress was of white and
violet, the last trace of mourning for her mother, and confessed the gracious droop of her
tall and slender body. She did not suggest Staffordshire at all, and I was puzzled for a moment
to think where I had met her. Her sweetly shaped mouth with the slight obliquity of the lip
and the little kink in her brow were extraordinarily familiar to me. But she had either been
prepared by Altiora or she remembered my name. "We met," she said, "while my step-father was
alive--at Misterton. You came to see us"; and instantly I recalled the sunshine between the
apple blossom and a slender pale blue girlish shape among the daffodils, like something that
had sprung from a bulb itself. I recalled at once that I had found her very interesting, though
I did not clearly remember how it was she had interested me.

Other guests arrived--it was one of Altiora's boldly blended mixtures of people with ideas
and people with influence or money who might perhaps be expected to resonate to them. Bailey
came down late with an air of hurry, and was introduced to Margaret and said absolutely nothing
to her--there being no information either to receive or impart and nothing to do--but stood
snatching his left cheek until I rescued him and her, and left him free to congratulate the
new Lady Snape on her husband's K. C. B.

I took Margaret down. We achieved no feats of mutual expression, except that it was abundantly
clear we were both very pleased and interested to meet again, and that we had both kept memories
of each other. We made that Misterton tea-party and the subsequent marriages of my cousins
and the world of Burslem generally, matter for quite an agreeable conversation until at last
Altiora, following her invariable custom, called me by name imperatively out of our duologue.
"Mr. Remington," she said, "we want your opinion--" in her entirely characteristic effort to
get all the threads of conversation into her own hands for the climax that always wound up
her dinners. How the other women used to hate those concluding raids of hers! I forget most
of the other people at that dinner, nor can I recall what the crowning rally was about. It
didn't in any way join on to my impression of Margaret.

In the drawing-room of the matting floor I rejoined her, with Altiora's manifest connivance,
and in the interval I had been thinking of our former meeting.

"Do you find London," I asked, "give you more opportunity for doing things and learning things
than Burslem?"

She showed at once she appreciated my allusion to her former confidences. "I was very discontented
then," she said and paused. "I've really only been in London for a few months. It's so different.
In Burslem, life seems all business and getting--without any reason. One went on and it didn't
seem to mean anything. At least anything that mattered.... London seems to be so full of meanings--all
mixed up together."

She knitted her brows over her words and smiled appealingly at the end as if for consideration
for her inadequate expression, appealingly and almost humorously.

I looked understandingly at her. "We have all," I agreed, "to come to London."

"One sees so much distress," she added, as if she felt she had completely omitted something,
and needed a codicil.

"What are you doing in London?"

"I'm thinking of studying. Some social question. I thought perhaps I might go and study social
conditions as Mrs. Bailey did, go perhaps as a work-girl or see the reality of living in, but
Mrs. Bailey thought perhaps it wasn't quite my work."

"Are you studying?"

"I'm going to a good many lectures, and perhaps I shall take up a regular course at the Westminster
School of Politics and Sociology. But Mrs. Bailey doesn't seem to believe very much in that
either."

Her faintly whimsical smile returned. "I seem rather indefinite," she apologised, "but one
does not want to get entangled in things one can't do. One--one has so many advantages, one's
life seems to be such a trust and such a responsibility--"

She stopped.

"A man gets driven into work," I said.

"It must be splendid to be Mrs. Bailey," she replied with a glance of envious admiration across
the room.

"SHE has no doubts, anyhow," I remarked.

"She HAD," said Margaret with the pride of one who has received great confidences.

6

"You've met before?" said Altiora, a day or so later.

I explained when.

"You find her interesting?"

I saw in a flash that Altiora meant to marry me to Margaret.

Her intention became much clearer as the year developed. Altiora was systematic even in matters
that evade system. I was to marry Margaret, and freed from the need of making an income I was
to come into politics--as an exponent of Baileyism. She put it down with the other excellent
and advantageous things that should occupy her summer holiday. It was her pride and glory to
put things down and plan them out in detail beforehand, and I'm not quite sure that she did
not even mark off the day upon which the engagement was to be declared. If she did, I disappointed
her. We didn't come to an engagement, in spite of the broadest hints and the glaring obviousness
of everything, that summer.

Every summer the Baileys went out of London to some house they hired or borrowed, leaving their
secretaries toiling behind, and they went on working hard in the mornings and evenings and
taking exercise in the open air in the afternoon. They cycled assiduously and went for long
walks at a trot, and raided and studied (and incidentally explained themselves to) any social
"types" that lived in the neighbourhood. One invaded type, resentful under research, described
them with a dreadful aptness as Donna Quixote and Sancho Panza--and himself as a harmless windmill,
hurting no one and signifying nothing. She did rather tilt at things. This particular summer
they were at a pleasant farmhouse in level country near Pangbourne, belonging to the Hon. Wilfrid
Winchester, and they asked me to come down to rooms in the neighbourhood--Altiora took them
for a month for me in August--and board with them upon extremely reasonable terms; and when
I got there I found Margaret sitting in a hammock at Altiora's feet. Lots of people, I gathered,
were coming and going in the neighbourhood, the Ponts were in a villa on the river, and the
Rickhams' houseboat was to moor for some days; but these irruptions did not impede a great
deal of duologue between Margaret and myself.

Altiora was efficient rather than artistic in her match-making. She sent us off for long walks
together--Margaret was a fairly good walker--she exhumed some defective croquet things and
incited us to croquet, not understanding that detestable game is the worst stimulant for lovers
in the world. And Margaret and I were always getting left about, and finding ourselves for
odd half-hours in the kitchen-garden with nothing to do except talk, or we were told with a
wave of the hand to run away and amuse each other.

Altiora even tried a picnic in canoes, knowing from fiction rather than imagination or experience
the conclusive nature of such excursions. But there she fumbled at the last moment, and elected
at the river's brink to share a canoe with me. Bailey showed so much zeal and so little skill--his
hat fell off and he became miraculously nothing but paddle-clutching hands and a vast wrinkled
brow--that at last he had to be paddled ignominiously by Margaret, while Altiora, after a phase
of rigid discretion, as nearly as possible drowned herself--and me no doubt into the bargain--with
a sudden lateral gesture of the arm to emphasise the high note with which she dismissed the
efficiency of the Charity Organisation Society. We shipped about an inch of water and sat in
it for the rest of the time, an inconvenience she disregarded heroically. We had difficulties
in landing Oscar from his frail craft upon the ait of our feasting,--he didn't balance sideways
and was much alarmed, and afterwards, as Margaret had a pain in her back, I took him in my
canoe, let him hide his shame with an ineffectual but not positively harmful paddle, and towed
the other by means of the joined painters. Still it was the fault of the inadequate information
supplied in the books and not of Altiora that that was not the date of my betrothal.

I find it not a little difficult to state what kept me back from proposing marriage to Margaret
that summer, and what urged me forward at last to marry her. It is so much easier to remember
one's resolutions than to remember the moods and suggestions that produced them.

Marrying and getting married was, I think, a pretty simple affair to Altiora; it was something
that happened to the adolescent and unmarried when you threw them together under the circumstances
of health, warmth and leisure. It happened with the kindly and approving smiles of the more
experienced elders who had organised these proximities. The young people married, settled down,
children ensued, and father and mother turned their minds, now decently and properly disillusioned,
to other things. That to Altiora was the normal sexual life, and she believed it to be the
quality of the great bulk of the life about her.

One of the great barriers to human understanding is the wide temperamental difference one finds
in the values of things relating to sex. It is the issue upon which people most need training
in charity and imaginative sympathy. Here are no universal standards at all, and indeed for
no single man nor woman does there seem to be any fixed standard, so much do the accidents
of circumstances and one's physical phases affect one's interpretations. There is nothing in
the whole range of sexual fact that may not seem supremely beautiful or humanly jolly or magnificently
wicked or disgusting or trivial or utterly insignificant, according to the eye that sees or
the mood that colours. Here is something that may fill the skies and every waking hour or be
almost completely banished from a life. It may be everything on Monday and less than nothing
on Saturday. And we make our laws and rules as though in these matters all men and women were
commensurable one with another, with an equal steadfast passion and an equal constant duty....

I don't know what dreams Altiora may have had in her schoolroom days, I always suspected her
of suppressed and forgotten phases, but certainly her general effect now was of an entirely
passionless worldliness in these matters. Indeed so far as I could get at her, she regarded
sexual passion as being hardly more legitimate in a civilised person than--let us say--homicidal
mania. She must have forgotten--and Bailey too. I suspect she forgot before she married him.
I don't suppose either of them had the slightest intimation of the dimensions sexual love can
take in the thoughts of the great majority of people with whom they come in contact. They loved
in their way--an intellectual way it was and a fond way--but it had no relation to beauty and
physical sensation--except that there seemed a decree of exile against these things. They got
their glow in high moments of altruistic ambition--and in moments of vivid worldly success.
They sat at opposite ends of their dinner table with so and so "captured," and so and so, flushed
with a mutual approval. They saw people in love forgetful and distraught about them, and just
put it down to forgetfulness and distraction. At any rate Altiora manifestly viewed my situation
and Margaret's with an abnormal and entirely misleading simplicity. There was the girl, rich,
with an acceptable claim to be beautiful, shiningly virtuous, quite capable of political interests,
and there was I, talented, ambitious and full of political and social passion, in need of just
the money, devotion and regularisation Margaret could provide. We were both unmarried--white
sheets of uninscribed paper. Was there ever a simpler situation? What more could we possibly want?

She was even a little offended at the inconclusiveness that did not settle things at Pangbourne.
I seemed to her, I suspect, to reflect upon her judgment and good intentions.

7

I didn't see things with Altiora's simplicity.

I admired Margaret very much, I was fully aware of all that she and I might give each other;
indeed so far as Altiora went we were quite in agreement. But what seemed solid ground to Altiora
and the ultimate footing of her emasculated world, was to me just the superficial covering
of a gulf--oh! abysses of vague and dim, and yet stupendously significant things.

I couldn't dismiss the interests and the passion of sex as Altiora did. Work, I agreed, was
important; career and success; but deep unanalysable instincts told me this preoccupation was
a thing quite as important; dangerous, interfering, destructive indeed, but none the less a
dominating interest in life. I have told how flittingly and uninvited it came like a moth from
the outer twilight into my life, how it grew in me with my manhood, how it found its way to
speech and grew daring, and led me at last to experience. After that adventure at Locarno sex
and the interests and desires of sex never left me for long at peace. I went on with my work
and my career, and all the time it was like--like someone talking ever and again in a room
while one tries to write.

There were times when I could have wished the world a world all of men, so greatly did this
unassimilated series of motives and curiosities hamper me; and times when I could have wished
the world all of women. I seemed always to be seeking something in women, in girls, and I was
never clear what it was I was seeking. But never--even at my coarsest--was I moved by physical
desire alone. Was I seeking help and fellowship? Was I seeking some intimacy with beauty? It
was a thing too formless to state, that I seemed always desiring to attain and never attaining.
Waves of gross sensuousness arose out of this preoccupation, carried me to a crisis of gratification
or disappointment that was clearly not the needed thing; they passed and left my mind free
again for a time to get on with the permanent pursuits of my life. And then presently this
solicitude would have me again, an irrelevance as it seemed, and yet a constantly recurring demand.

I don't want particularly to dwell upon things that are disagreeable for others to read, but
I cannot leave them out of my story and get the right proportions of the forces I am balancing.
I was no abnormal man, and that world of order we desire to make must be built of such stuff
as I was and am and can beget. You cannot have a world of Baileys; it would end in one orderly
generation. Humanity is begotten in Desire, lives by Desire.

     "Love which is lust, is the Lamp in the Tomb;
      Love which is lust, is the Call from the Gloom."

I echo Henley.

I suppose the life of celibacy which the active, well-fed, well-exercised and imaginatively
stirred young man of the educated classes is supposed to lead from the age of nineteen or twenty,
when Nature certainly meant him to marry, to thirty or more, when civilisation permits him
to do so, is the most impossible thing in the world. We deal here with facts that are kept
secret and obscure, but I doubt for my own part if more than one man out of five in our class
satisfies that ideal demand. The rest are even as I was, and Hatherleigh and Esmeer and all
the men I knew. I draw no lessons and offer no panacea; I have to tell the quality of life,
and this is how it is. This is how it will remain until men and women have the courage to face
the facts of life.

I was no systematic libertine, you must understand; things happened to me and desire drove
me. Any young man would have served for that Locarno adventure, and after that what had been
a mystic and wonderful thing passed rapidly into a gross, manifestly misdirected and complicating
one. I can count a meagre tale of five illicit loves in the days of my youth, to include that
first experience, and of them all only two were sustained relationships. Besides these five
"affairs," on one or two occasions I dipped so low as the inky dismal sensuality of the streets,
and made one of those pairs of correlated figures, the woman in her squalid finery sailing
homeward, the man modestly aloof and behind, that every night in the London year flit by the
score of thousands across the sight of the observant....

How ugly it is to recall; ugly and shameful now without qualification! Yet at the time there
was surely something not altogether ugly in it--something that has vanished, some fine thing
mortally ailing.

One such occasion I recall as if it were a vision deep down in a pit, as if it had happened
in another state of existence to someone else. And yet it is the sort of thing that has happened,
once or twice at least, to half the men in London who have been in a position to make it possible.
Let me try and give you its peculiar effect. Man or woman, you ought to know of it.

Figure to yourself a dingy room, somewhere in that network of streets that lies about Tottenham
Court Road, a dingy bedroom lit by a solitary candle and carpeted with scraps and patches,
with curtains of cretonne closing the window, and a tawdry ornament of paper in the grate.
I sit on a bed beside a weary-eyed, fair-haired, sturdy young woman, half undressed, who is
telling me in broken German something that my knowledge of German is at first inadequate to
understand....

I thought she was boasting about her family, and then slowly the meaning came to me. She was
a Lett from near Libau in Courland, and she was telling me--just as one tells something too
strange for comment or emotion--how her father had been shot and her sister outraged and murdered
before her eyes.

It was as if one had dipped into something primordial and stupendous beneath the smooth and
trivial surfaces of life. There was I, you know, the promising young don from Cambridge, who
wrote quite brilliantly about politics and might presently get into Parliament, with my collar
and tie in my hand, and a certain sense of shameful adventure fading out of my mind.

"Ach Gott!" she sighed by way of comment, and mused deeply for a moment before she turned her
face to me, as to something forgotten and remembered, and assumed the half-hearted meretricious
smile.

"Bin ich eine hubsche?" she asked like one who repeats a lesson.

I was moved to crave her pardon and come away.

"Bin ich eine hubsche?" she asked a little anxiously, laying a detaining hand upon me, and
evidently not understanding a word of what I was striving to say.

8

I find it extraordinarily difficult to recall the phases by which I passed from my first admiration
of Margaret's earnestness and unconscious daintiness to an intimate acquaintance. The earlier
encounters stand out clear and hard, but then the impressions become crowded and mingle not
only with each other but with all the subsequent developments of relationship, the enormous
evolutions of interpretation and comprehension between husband and wife. Dipping into my memories
is like dipping into a ragbag, one brings out this memory or that, with no intimation of how
they came in time or what led to them and joined them together. And they are all mixed up with
subsequent associations, with sympathies and discords, habits of intercourse, surprises and
disappointments and discovered misunderstandings. I know only that always my feelings for Margaret
were complicated feelings, woven of many and various strands.

It is one of the curious neglected aspects of life how at the same time and in relation to
the same reality we can have in our minds streams of thought at quite different levels. We
can be at the same time idealising a person and seeing and criticising that person quite coldly
and clearly, and we slip unconsciously from level to level and produce all sorts of inconsistent
acts. In a sense I had no illusions about Margaret; in a sense my conception of Margaret was
entirely poetic illusion. I don't think I was ever blind to certain defects of hers, and quite
as certainly they didn't seem to matter in the slightest degree. Her mind had a curious want
of vigour, "flatness" is the only word; she never seemed to escape from her phrase; her way
of thinking, her way of doing was indecisive; she remained in her attitude, it did not flow
out to easy, confirmatory action.

I saw this quite clearly, and when we walked and talked together I seemed always trying for
animation in her and never finding it. I would state my ideas. "I know," she would say, "I know."

I talked about myself and she listened wonderfully, but she made no answering revelations.
I talked politics, and she remarked with her blue eyes wide and earnest: "Every WORD you say
seems so just."

I admired her appearance tremendously but--I can only express it by saying I didn't want to
touch her. Her fair hair was always delectably done. It flowed beautifully over her pretty
small ears, and she would tie its fair coilings with fillets of black or blue velvet that carried
pretty buckles of silver and paste. The light, the faint down on her brow and cheek was delightful.
And it was clear to me that I made her happy.

My sense of her deficiencies didn't stand in the way of my falling at last very deeply in love
with her. Her very shortcomings seemed to offer me something....

She stood in my mind for goodness--and for things from which it seemed to me my hold was slipping.

She seemed to promise a way of escape from the deepening opposition in me between physical
passions and the constructive career, the career of wide aims and human service, upon which
I had embarked. All the time that I was seeing her as a beautiful, fragile, rather ineffective
girl, I was also seeing her just as consciously as a shining slender figure, a radiant reconciliation,
coming into my darkling disorders of lust and impulse. I could understand clearly that she
was incapable of the most necessary subtleties of political thought, and yet I could contemplate
praying to her and putting all the intricate troubles of my life at her feet.

Before the reappearance of Margaret in my world at all an unwonted disgust with the consequences
and quality of my passions had arisen in my mind. Among other things that moment with the Lettish
girl haunted me persistently. I would see myself again and again sitting amidst those sluttish
surroundings, collar and tie in hand, while her heavy German words grouped themselves to a
slowly apprehended meaning. I would feel again with a fresh stab of remorse, that this was
not a flash of adventure, this was not seeing life in any permissible sense, but a dip into
tragedy, dishonour, hideous degradation, and the pitiless cruelty of a world as yet uncontrolled
by any ordered will.

"Good God!" I put it to myself, "that I should finish the work those Cossacks had begun! I
who want order and justice before everything! There's no way out of it, no decent excuse! If
I didn't think, I ought to have thought!"...

"How did I get to it?"... I would ransack the phases of my development from the first shy unveiling
of a hidden wonder to the last extremity as a man will go through muddled account books to
find some disorganising error....

I was also involved at that time--I find it hard to place these things in the exact order of
their dates because they were so disconnected with the regular progress of my work and life--in
an intrigue, a clumsy, sensuous, pretentious, artificially stimulated intrigue, with a Mrs.
Larrimer, a woman living separated from her husband. I will not go into particulars of that
episode, nor how we quarrelled and chafed one another. She was at once unfaithful and jealous
and full of whims about our meetings; she was careless of our secret, and vulgarised our relationship
by intolerable interpretations; except for some glowing moments of gratification, except for
the recurrent and essentially vicious desire that drew us back to each other again, we both
fretted at a vexatious and unexpectedly binding intimacy. The interim was full of the quality
of work delayed, of time and energy wasted, of insecure precautions against scandal and exposure.
Disappointment is almost inherent in illicit love. I had, and perhaps it was part of her recurrent
irritation also, a feeling as though one had followed something fine and beautiful into a net--into
bird lime! These furtive scuffles, this sneaking into shabby houses of assignation, was what
we had made out of the suggestion of pagan beauty; this was the reality of our vision of nymphs
and satyrs dancing for the joy of life amidst incessant sunshine. We had laid hands upon the
wonder and glory of bodily love and wasted them....

It was the sense of waste, of finely beautiful possibilities getting entangled and marred for
ever that oppressed me. I had missed, I had lost. I did not turn from these things after the
fashion of the Baileys, as one turns from something low and embarrassing. I felt that these
great organic forces were still to be wrought into a harmony with my constructive passion.
I felt too that I was not doing it. I had not understood the forces in this struggle nor its
nature, and as I learnt I failed. I had been started wrong, I had gone on wrong, in a world
that was muddled and confused, full of false counsel and erratic shames and twisted temptations.
I learnt to see it so by failures that were perhaps destroying any chance of profit in my lessons.
Moods of clear keen industry alternated with moods of relapse and indulgence and moods of dubiety
and remorse. I was not going on as the Baileys thought I was going on. There were times when
the blindness of the Baileys irritated me intensely. Beneath the ostensible success of those
years, between twenty-three and twenty-eight, this rottenness, known to scarcely any one but
myself, grew and spread. My sense of the probability of a collapse intensified. I knew indeed
now, even as Willersley had prophesied five years before, that I was entangling myself in something
that might smother all my uses in the world. Down there among those incommunicable difficulties,
I was puzzled and blundering. I was losing my hold upon things; the chaotic and adventurous
element in life was spreading upward and getting the better of me, over-mastering me and all
my will to rule and make.... And the strength, the drugging urgency of the passion!

Margaret shone at times in my imagination like a radiant angel in a world of mire and disorder,
in a world of cravings, hot and dull red like scars inflamed....

I suppose it was because I had so great a need of such help as her whiteness proffered, that
I could ascribe impossible perfections to her, a power of intellect, a moral power and patience
to which she, poor fellow mortal, had indeed no claim. If only a few of us WERE angels and
freed from the tangle of effort, how easy life might be! I wanted her so badly, so very badly,
to be what I needed. I wanted a woman to save me. I forced myself to see her as I wished to
see her. Her tepidities became infinite delicacies, her mental vagueness an atmospheric realism.
The harsh precisions of the Baileys and Altiora's blunt directness threw up her fineness into
relief and made a grace of every weakness.

Mixed up with the memory of times when I talked with Margaret as one talks politely to those
who are hopelessly inferior in mental quality, explaining with a false lucidity, welcoming
and encouraging the feeblest response, when possible moulding and directing, are times when
I did indeed, as the old phrase goes, worship the ground she trod on. I was equally honest
and unconscious of inconsistency at each extreme. But in neither phase could I find it easy
to make love to Margaret. For in the first I did not want to, though I talked abundantly to
her of marriage and so forth, and was a little puzzled at myself for not going on to some personal
application, and in the second she seemed inaccessible, I felt I must make confessions and
put things before her that would be the grossest outrage upon the noble purity I attributed to her.

9

I went to Margaret at last to ask her to marry me, wrought up to the mood of one who stakes
his life on a cast. Separated from her, and with the resonance of an evening of angry recriminations
with Mrs. Larrimer echoing in my mind, I discovered myself to be quite passionately in love
with Margaret. Last shreds of doubt vanished. It has always been a feature of our relationship
that Margaret absent means more to me than Margaret present; her memory distils from its dross
and purifies in me. All my criticisms and qualifications of her vanished into some dark corner
of my mind. She was the lady of my salvation; I must win my way to her or perish.

I went to her at last, for all that I knew she loved me, in passionate self-abasement, white
and a-tremble. She was staying with the Rockleys at Woking, for Shena Rockley had been at Bennett
Hall with her and they had resumed a close intimacy; and I went down to her on an impulse,
unheralded. I was kept waiting for some minutes, I remember, in a little room upon which a
conservatory opened, a conservatory full of pots of large mauve-edged, white cyclamens in flower.
And there was a big lacquer cabinet, a Chinese thing, I suppose, of black and gold against
the red-toned wall. To this day the thought of Margaret is inseparably bound up with the sight
of a cyclamen's back-turned petals.

She came in, looking pale and drooping rather more than usual. I suddenly realised that Altiora's
hint of a disappointment leading to positive illness was something more than a vindictive comment.
She closed the door and came across to me and took and dropped my hand and stood still. "What
is it you want with me?" she asked.

The speech I had been turning over and over in my mind on the way vanished at the sight of her.

"I want to talk to you," I answered lamely.

For some seconds neither of us said a word.

"I want to tell you things about my life," I began.

She answered with a scarcely audible "yes."

"I almost asked you to marry me at Pangbourne," I plunged. "I didn't. I didn't because--because
you had too much to give me."

"Too much!" she echoed, "to give you!" She had lifted her eyes to my face and the colour was
coming into her cheeks.

"Don't misunderstand me," I said hastily. "I want to tell you things, things you don't know.
Don't answer me. I want to tell you."

She stood before the fireplace with her ultimate answer shining through the quiet of her face.
"Go on," she said, very softly. It was so pitilessly manifest she was resolved to idealise
the situation whatever I might say. I began walking up and down the room between those cyclamens
and the cabinet. There were little gold fishermen on the cabinet fishing from little islands
that each had a pagoda and a tree, and there were also men in boats or something, I couldn't
determine what, and some obscure sub-office in my mind concerned itself with that quite intently.
Yet I seem to have been striving with all my being to get words for the truth of things. "You
see," I emerged, "you make everything possible to me. You can give me help and sympathy, support,
understanding. You know my political ambitions. You know all that I might do in the world.
I do so intensely want to do constructive things, big things perhaps, in this wild jumble....
Only you don't know a bit what I am. I want to tell you what I am. I'm complex.... I'm streaked."

I glanced at her, and she was regarding me with an expression of blissful disregard for any
meaning I was seeking to convey.

"You see," I said, "I'm a bad man."

She sounded a note of valiant incredulity.

Everything seemed to be slipping away from me. I pushed on to the ugly facts that remained
over from the wreck of my interpretation. "What has held me back," I said, "is the thought
that you could not possibly understand certain things in my life. Men are not pure as women
are. I have had love affairs. I mean I have had affairs. Passion--desire. You see, I have had
a mistress, I have been entangled--"

She seemed about to speak, but I interrupted. "I'm not telling you," I said, "what I meant
to tell you. I want you to know clearly that there is another side to my life, a dirty side.
Deliberately I say, dirty. It didn't seem so at first--"

I stopped blankly. "Dirty," I thought, was the most idiotic choice of words to have made.

I had never in any tolerable sense of the word been dirty.

"I drifted into this--as men do," I said after a little pause and stopped again.

She was looking at me with her wide blue eyes.

"Did you imagine," she began, "that I thought you--that I expected--"

"But how can you know?"

"I know. I do know."

"But--" I began.

"I know," she persisted, dropping her eyelids. "Of course I know," and nothing could have convinced
me more completely that she did not know.

"All men--" she generalised. "A woman does not understand these temptations."

I was astonished beyond measure at her way of taking my confession. ...

"Of course," she said, hesitating a little over a transparent difficulty, "it is all over and
past."

"It's all over and past," I answered.

There was a little pause.

"I don't want to know," she said. "None of that seems to matter now in the slightest degree."

She looked up and smiled as though we had exchanged some acceptable commonplaces. "Poor dear!"
she said, dismissing everything, and put out her arms, and it seemed to me that I could hear
the Lettish girl in the background--doomed safety valve of purity in this intolerable world--telling
something in indistinguishable German--I know not what nor why....

I took Margaret in my arms and kissed her. Her eyes were wet with tears. She clung to me and
was near, I felt, to sobbing.

"I have loved you," she whispered presently, "Oh! ever since we met in Misterton--six years
and more ago."

CHAPTER THE THIRD ~~ MARGARET IN VENICE

1

There comes into my mind a confused memory of conversations with Margaret; we must have had
dozens altogether, and they mix in now for the most part inextricably not only with one another,
but with later talks and with things we discussed at Pangbourne. We had the immensest anticipations
of the years and opportunities that lay before us. I was now very deeply in love with her indeed.
I felt not that I had cleaned up my life but that she had. We called each other "confederate"
I remember, and made during our brief engagement a series of visits to the various legislative
bodies in London, the County Council, the House of Commons, where we dined with Villiers, and
the St. Pancras Vestry, where we heard Shaw speaking. I was full of plans and so was she of
the way in which we were to live and work. We were to pay back in public service whatever excess
of wealth beyond his merits old Seddon's economic advantage had won for him from the toiling
people in the potteries. The end of the Boer War was so recent that that blessed word "efficiency"
echoed still in people's minds and thoughts. Lord Roseberry in a memorable oration had put
it into the heads of the big outer public, but the Baileys with a certain show of justice claimed
to have set it going in the channels that took it to him--if as a matter of fact it was taken
to him. But then it was their habit to make claims of that sort. They certainly did their share
to keep "efficient" going. Altiora's highest praise was "thoroughly efficient." We were to
be a "thoroughly efficient" political couple of the "new type." She explained us to herself
and Oscar, she explained us to ourselves, she explained us to the people who came to her dinners
and afternoons until the world was highly charged with explanation and expectation, and the
proposal that I should be the Liberal candidate for the Kinghamstead Division seemed the most
natural development in the world.

I was full of the ideal of hard restrained living and relentless activity, and throughout a
beautiful November at Venice, where chiefly we spent our honeymoon, we turned over and over
again and discussed in every aspect our conception of a life tremendously focussed upon the
ideal of social service.

Most clearly there stands out a picture of ourselves talking in a gondola on our way to Torcella.
Far away behind us the smoke of Murano forms a black stain upon an immense shining prospect
of smooth water, water as unruffled and luminous as the sky above, a mirror on which rows of
posts and distant black high-stemmed, swan-necked boats with their minutely clear swinging
gondoliers, float aerially. Remote and low before us rises the little tower of our destination.
Our men swing together and their oars swirl leisurely through the water, hump back in the rowlocks,
splash sharply and go swishing back again. Margaret lies back on cushions, with her face shaded
by a holland parasol, and I sit up beside her.

"You see," I say, and in spite of Margaret's note of perfect acquiescence I feel myself reasoning
against an indefinable antagonism, "it is so easy to fall into a slack way with life. There
may seem to be something priggish in a meticulous discipline, but otherwise it is so easy to
slip into indolent habits--and to be distracted from one's purpose. The country, the world,
wants men to serve its constructive needs, to work out and carry out plans. For a man who has
to make a living the enemy is immediate necessity; for people like ourselves it's--it's the
constant small opportunity of agreeable things."

"Frittering away," she says, "time and strength."

"That is what I feel. It's so pleasant to pretend one is simply modest, it looks so foolish
at times to take one's self too seriously. We've GOT to take ourselves seriously."

She endorses my words with her eyes.

"I feel I can do great things with life."

"I KNOW you can."

"But that's only to be done by concentrating one's life upon one main end. We have to plan
our days, to make everything subserve our scheme."

"I feel," she answers softly, "we ought to give--every hour."

Her face becomes dreamy. "I WANT to give every hour," she adds.

2

That holiday in Venice is set in my memory like a little artificial lake in uneven confused
country, as something very bright and skylike, and discontinuous with all about it. The faded
quality of the very sunshine of that season, the mellow discoloured palaces and places, the
huge, time-ripened paintings of departed splendours, the whispering, nearly noiseless passage
of hearse-black gondolas, for the horrible steam launch had not yet ruined Venice, the stilled
magnificences of the depopulated lagoons, the universal autumn, made me feel altogether in
recess from the teeming uproars of reality. There was not a dozen people all told, no Americans
and scarcely any English, to dine in the big cavern of a dining-room, with its vistas of separate
tables, its distempered walls and its swathed chandeliers. We went about seeing beautiful things,
accepting beauty on every hand, and taking it for granted that all was well with ourselves
and the world. It was ten days or a fortnight before I became fretful and anxious for action;
a long tranquillity for such a temperament as mine.

Our pleasures were curiously impersonal, a succession of shared aesthetic appreciation threads
all that time. Our honeymoon was no exultant coming together, no mutual shout of "YOU!" We
were almost shy with one another, and felt the relief of even a picture to help us out. It
was entirely in my conception of things that I should be very watchful not to shock or distress
Margaret or press the sensuous note. Our love-making had much of the tepid smoothness of the
lagoons. We talked in delicate innuendo of what should be glorious freedoms. Margaret had missed
Verona and Venice in her previous Italian journey--fear of the mosquito had driven her mother
across Italy to the westward route--and now she could fill up her gaps and see the Titians
and Paul Veroneses she already knew in colourless photographs, the Carpaccios, (the St. George
series delighted her beyond measure,) the Basaitis and that great statue of Bartolomeo Colleoni
that Ruskin praised.

But since I am not a man to look at pictures and architectural effects day after day, I did
watch Margaret very closely and store a thousand memories of her. I can see her now, her long
body drooping a little forward, her sweet face upraised to some discovered familiar masterpiece
and shining with a delicate enthusiasm. I can hear again the soft cadences of her voice murmuring
commonplace comments, for she had no gift of expressing the shapeless satisfaction these things
gave her.

Margaret, I perceived, was a cultivated person, the first cultivated person with whom I had
ever come into close contact. She was cultivated and moral, and I, I now realise, was never
either of these things. She was passive, and I am active. She did not simply and naturally
look for beauty but she had been incited to look for it at school, and took perhaps a keener
interest in books and lectures and all the organisation of beautiful things than she did in
beauty itself; she found much of her delight in being guided to it. Now a thing ceases to be
beautiful to me when some finger points me out its merits. Beauty is the salt of life, but
I take my beauty as a wild beast gets its salt, as a constituent of the meal....

And besides, there was that between us that should have seemed more beautiful than any picture....

So we went about Venice tracking down pictures and spiral staircases and such-like things,
and my brains were busy all the time with such things as a comparison of Venice and its nearest
modern equivalent, New York, with the elaboration of schemes of action when we returned to
London, with the development of a theory of Margaret.

Our marriage had done this much at least, that it had fused and destroyed those two independent
ways of thinking about her that had gone on in my mind hitherto. Suddenly she had become very
near to me, and a very big thing, a sort of comprehensive generalisation behind a thousand
questions, like the sky or England. The judgments and understandings that had worked when she
was, so to speak, miles away from my life, had now to be altogether revised. Trifling things
began to matter enormously, that she had a weak and easily fatigued back, for example, or that
when she knitted her brows and stammered a little in talking, it didn't really mean that an
exquisite significance struggled for utterance.

We visited pictures in the mornings chiefly. In the afternoon, unless we were making a day-long
excursion in a gondola, Margaret would rest for an hour while I prowled about in search of
English newspapers, and then we would go to tea in the Piazza San Marco and watch the drift
of people feeding the pigeons and going into the little doors beneath the sunlit arches and
domes of Saint Mark's. Then perhaps we would stroll on the Piazzetta, or go out into the sunset
in a gondola. Margaret became very interested in the shops that abound under the colonnades
and decided at last to make an extensive purchase of table glass. "These things," she said,
"are quite beautiful, and far cheaper than anything but the most ordinary looking English ware."
I was interested in her idea, and a good deal charmed by the delightful qualities of tinted
shape, slender handle and twisted stem. I suggested we should get not simply tumblers and wineglasses
but bedroom waterbottles, fruit- and sweet-dishes, water-jugs, and in the end we made quite
a business-like afternoon of it.

I was beginning now to long quite definitely for events. Energy was accumulating in me, and
worrying me for an outlet. I found the TIMES and the DAILY TELEGRAPH and the other papers I
managed to get hold of, more and more stimulating. I nearly wrote to the former paper one day
in answer to a letter by Lord Grimthorpe--I forget now upon what point. I chafed secretly against
this life of tranquil appreciations more and more. I found my attitudes of restrained and delicate
affection for Margaret increasingly difficult to sustain. I surprised myself and her by little
gusts of irritability, gusts like the catspaws before a gale. I was alarmed at these symptoms.

One night when Margaret had gone up to her room, I put on a light overcoat, went out into the
night and prowled for a long time through the narrow streets, smoking and thinking. I returned
and went and sat on the edge of her bed to talk to her.

"Look here, Margaret," I said; "this is all very well, but I'm restless."

"Restless!" she said with a faint surprise in her voice.

"Yes. I think I want exercise. I've got a sort of feeling--I've never had it before--as though
I was getting fat."

"My dear!" she cried.

"I want to do things;--ride horses, climb mountains, take the devil out of myself."

She watched me thoughtfully.

"Couldn't we DO something?" she said.

Do what?

"I don't know. Couldn't we perhaps go away from here soon--and walk in the mountains--on our
way home."

I thought. "There seems to be no exercise at all in this place."

"Isn't there some walk?"

"I wonder," I answered. "We might walk to Chioggia perhaps, along the Lido." And we tried that,
but the long stretch of beach fatigued Margaret's back, and gave her blisters, and we never
got beyond Malamocco....

A day or so after we went out to those pleasant black-robed, bearded Armenians in their monastery
at Saint Lazzaro, and returned towards sundown. We fell into silence. "PIU LENTO," said Margaret
to the gondolier, and released my accumulated resolution.

"Let us go back to London," I said abruptly.

Margaret looked at me with surprised blue eyes.

"This is beautiful beyond measure, you know," I said, sticking to my point, "but I have work
to do."

She was silent for some seconds. "I had forgotten," she said.

"So had I," I sympathised, and took her hand. "Suddenly I have remembered."

She remained quite still. "There is so much to be done," I said, almost apologetically.

She looked long away from me across the lagoon and at last sighed, like one who has drunk deeply,
and turned to me.

"I suppose one ought not to be so happy," she said. "Everything has been so beautiful and so
simple and splendid. And clean. It has been just With You--the time of my life. It's a pity
such things must end. But the world is calling you, dear.... I ought not to have forgotten
it. I thought you were resting--and thinking. But if you are rested.--Would you like us to
start to-morrow?"

She looked at once so fragile and so devoted that on the spur of the moment I relented, and
we stayed in Venice four more days.

CHAPTER THE FOURTH ~~ THE HOUSE IN WESTMINSTER

1

Margaret had already taken a little house in Radnor Square, Westminster, before our marriage,
a house that seemed particularly adaptable to our needs as public-spirited efficients; it had
been very pleasantly painted and papered under Margaret's instructions, white paint and clean
open purples and green predominating, and now we set to work at once upon the interesting business
of arranging and--with our Venetian glass as a beginning--furnishing it. We had been fairly
fortunate with our wedding presents, and for the most part it was open to us to choose just
exactly what we would have and just precisely where we would put it.

Margaret had a sense of form and colour altogether superior to mine, and so quite apart from
the fact that it was her money equipped us, I stood aside from all these matters and obeyed
her summons to a consultation only to endorse her judgment very readily. Until everything was
settled I went every day to my old rooms in Vincent Square and worked at a series of papers
that were originally intended for the FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW, the papers that afterwards became
my fourth book, "New Aspects of Liberalism."

I still remember as delightful most of the circumstances of getting into 79, Radnor Square.
The thin flavour of indecision about Margaret disappeared altogether in a shop; she had the
precisest ideas of what she wanted, and the devices of the salesman did not sway her. It was
very pleasant to find her taking things out of my hands with a certain masterfulness, and showing
the distinctest determination to make a house in which I should be able to work in that great
project of "doing something for the world."

"And I do want to make things pretty about us," she said. "You don't think it wrong to have
things pretty?"

"I want them so."

"Altiora has things hard."

"Altiora," I answered, "takes a pride in standing ugly and uncomfortable things. But I don't
see that they help her. Anyhow they won't help me."

So Margaret went to the best shops and got everything very simple and very good. She bought
some pictures very well indeed; there was a little Sussex landscape, full of wind and sunshine,
by Nicholson, for my study, that hit my taste far better than if I had gone out to get some
such expression for myself.

"We will buy a picture just now and then," she said, "sometimes--when we see one."

I would come back through the January mire or fog from Vincent Square to the door of 79, and
reach it at last with a quite childish appreciation of the fact that its solid Georgian proportions
and its fine brass furnishings belonged to MY home; I would use my latchkey and discover Margaret
in the warm-lit, spacious hall with a partially opened packing-case, fatigued but happy, or
go up to have tea with her out of the right tea things, "come at last," or be told to notice
what was fresh there. It wasn't simply that I had never had a house before, but I had really
never been, except in the most transitory way, in any house that was nearly so delightful as
mine promised to be. Everything was fresh and bright, and softly and harmoniously toned. Downstairs
we had a green dining-room with gleaming silver, dark oak, and English colour-prints; above
was a large drawing-room that could be made still larger by throwing open folding doors, and
it was all carefully done in greys and blues, for the most part with real Sheraton supplemented
by Sheraton so skilfully imitated by an expert Margaret had discovered as to be indistinguishable
except to a minute scrutiny. And for me, above this and next to my bedroom, there was a roomy
study, with specially thick stair-carpet outside and thick carpets in the bedroom overhead
and a big old desk for me to sit at and work between fire and window, and another desk specially
made for me by that expert if I chose to stand and write, and open bookshelves and bookcases
and every sort of convenient fitting. There were electric heaters beside the open fire, and
everything was put for me to make tea at any time--electric kettle, infuser, biscuits and fresh
butter, so that I could get up and work at any hour of the day or night. I could do no work
in this apartment for a long time, I was so interested in the perfection of its arrangements.
And when I brought in my books and papers from Vincent Square, Margaret seized upon all the
really shabby volumes and had them re-bound in a fine official-looking leather.

I can remember sitting down at that desk and looking round me and feeling with a queer effect
of surprise that after all even a place in the Cabinet, though infinitely remote, was nevertheless
in the same large world with these fine and quietly expensive things.

On the same floor Margaret had a "den," a very neat and pretty den with good colour-prints
of Botticellis and Carpaccios, and there was a third apartment for sectarial purposes should
the necessity for them arise, with a severe-looking desk equipped with patent files. And Margaret
would come flitting into the room to me, or appear noiselessly standing, a tall gracefully
drooping form, in the wide open doorway. "Is everything right, dear?" she would ask.

"Come in," I would say, "I'm sorting out papers."

She would come to the hearthrug.

"I mustn't disturb you," she would remark.

"I'm not busy yet."

"Things are getting into order. Then we must make out a time-table as the Baileys do, and BEGIN!"

Altiora came in to see us once or twice, and a number of serious young wives known to Altiora
called and were shown over the house, and discussed its arrangements with Margaret. They were
all tremendously keen on efficient arrangements.

"A little pretty," said Altiora, with the faintest disapproval, "still--"

It was clear she thought we should grow out of that. From the day of our return we found other
people's houses open to us and eager for us. We went out of London for week-ends and dined
out, and began discussing our projects for reciprocating these hospitalities. As a single man
unattached, I had had a wide and miscellaneous social range, but now I found myself falling
into place in a set. For a time I acquiesced in this. I went very little to my clubs, the Climax
and the National Liberal, and participated in no bachelor dinners at all. For a time, too,
I dropped out of the garrulous literary and journalistic circles I had frequented. I put up
for the Reform, not so much for the use of the club as a sign of serious and substantial political
standing. I didn't go up to Cambridge, I remember, for nearly a year, so occupied was I with
my new adjustments.

The people we found ourselves among at this time were people, to put it roughly, of the Parliamentary
candidate class, or people already actually placed in the political world. They ranged between
very considerable wealth and such a hard, bare independence as old Willersley and the sister
who kept house for him possessed. There were quite a number of young couples like ourselves,
a little younger and more artless, or a little older and more established. Among the younger
men I had a sort of distinction because of my Cambridge reputation and my writing, and because,
unlike them, I was an adventurer and had won and married my way into their circles instead
of being naturally there. They couldn't quite reckon upon what I should do; they felt I had
reserves of experience and incalculable traditions. Close to us were the Cramptons, Willie
Crampton, who has since been Postmaster-General, rich and very important in Rockshire, and
his younger brother Edward, who has specialised in history and become one of those unimaginative
men of letters who are the glory of latter-day England. Then there was Lewis, further towards
Kensington, where his cousins the Solomons and the Hartsteins lived, a brilliant representative
of his race, able, industrious and invariably uninspired, with a wife a little in revolt against
the racial tradition of feminine servitude and inclined to the suffragette point of view, and
Bunting Harblow, an old blue, and with an erratic disposition well under the control of the
able little cousin he had married. I had known all these men, but now (with Altiora floating
angelically in benediction) they opened their hearts to me and took me into their order. They
were all like myself, prospective Liberal candidates, with a feeling that the period of wandering
in the wilderness of opposition was drawing near its close. They were all tremendously keen
upon social and political service, and all greatly under the sway of the ideal of a simple,
strenuous life, a life finding its satisfactions in political achievements and distinctions.
The young wives were as keen about it as the young husbands, Margaret most of all, and I--whatever
elements in me didn't march with the attitudes and habits of this set were very much in the
background during that time.

We would give little dinners and have evening gatherings at which everything was very simple
and very good, with a slight but perceptible austerity, and there was more good fruit and flowers
and less perhaps in the way of savouries, patties and entrees than was customary. Sherry we
banished, and Marsala and liqueurs, and there was always good home-made lemonade available.
No men waited, but very expert parlourmaids. Our meat was usually Welsh mutton--I don't know
why, unless that mountains have ever been the last refuge of the severer virtues. And we talked
politics and books and ideas and Bernard Shaw (who was a department by himself and supposed
in those days to be ethically sound at bottom), and mingled with the intellectuals--I myself
was, as it were, a promoted intellectual.

The Cramptons had a tendency to read good things aloud on their less frequented receptions,
but I have never been able to participate submissively in this hyper-digestion of written matter,
and generally managed to provoke a disruptive debate. We were all very earnest to make the
most of ourselves and to be and do, and I wonder still at times, with an unassuaged perplexity,
how it is that in that phase of utmost earnestness I have always seemed to myself to be most
remote from reality.

2

I look back now across the detaching intervention of sixteen crowded years, critically and
I fancy almost impartially, to those beginnings of my married life. I try to recall something
near to their proper order the developing phases of relationship. I am struck most of all by
the immense unpremeditated, generous-spirited insincerities upon which Margaret and I were
building.

It seems to me that here I have to tell perhaps the commonest experience of all among married
educated people, the deliberate, shy, complex effort to fill the yawning gaps in temperament
as they appear, the sustained, failing attempt to bridge abysses, level barriers, evade violent
pressures. I have come these latter years of my life to believe that it is possible for a man
and woman to be absolutely real with one another, to stand naked souled to each other, unashamed
and unafraid, because of the natural all-glorifying love between them. It is possible to love
and be loved untroubling, as a bird flies through the air. But it is a rare and intricate chance
that brings two people within sight of that essential union, and for the majority marriage
must adjust itself on other terms. Most coupled people never really look at one another. They
look a little away to preconceived ideas. And each from the first days of love-making HIDES
from the other, is afraid of disappointing, afraid of offending, afraid of discoveries in either
sense. They build not solidly upon the rock of truth, but upon arches and pillars and queer
provisional supports that are needed to make a common foundation, and below in the imprisoned
darknesses, below the fine fabric they sustain together begins for each of them a cavernous
hidden life. Down there things may be prowling that scarce ever peep out to consciousness except
in the grey half-light of sleepless nights, passions that flash out for an instant in an angry
glance and are seen no more, starved victims and beautiful dreams bricked up to die. For the
most of us there is no jail delivery of those inner depths, and the life above goes on to its
honourable end.

I have told how I loved Margaret and how I came to marry her. Perhaps already unintentionally
I have indicated the quality of the injustice our marriage did us both. There was no kindred
between us and no understanding. We were drawn to one another by the unlikeness of our quality,
by the things we misunderstood in each other. I know a score of couples who have married in
that fashion.

Modern conditions and modern ideas, and in particular the intenser and subtler perceptions
of modern life, press more and more heavily upon a marriage tie whose fashion comes from an
earlier and less discriminating time. When the wife was her husband's subordinate, meeting
him simply and uncritically for simple ends, when marriage was a purely domestic relationship,
leaving thought and the vivid things of life almost entirely to the unencumbered man, mental
and temperamental incompatibilities mattered comparatively little. But now the wife, and particularly
the loving childless wife, unpremeditatedly makes a relentless demand for a complete association,
and the husband exacts unthought of delicacies of understanding and co-operation. These are
stupendous demands. People not only think more fully and elaborately about life than they ever
did before, but marriage obliges us to make that ever more accidented progress a three-legged
race of carelessly assorted couples....

Our very mental texture was different. I was rough-minded, to use the phrase of William James,
primary and intuitive and illogical; she was tender-minded, logical, refined and secondary.
She was loyal to pledge and persons, sentimental and faithful; I am loyal to ideas and instincts,
emotional and scheming. My imagination moves in broad gestures; her's was delicate with a real
dread of extravagance. My quality is sensuous and ruled by warm impulses; hers was discriminating
and essentially inhibitory. I like the facts of the case and to mention everything; I like
naked bodies and the jolly smells of things. She abounded in reservations, in circumlocutions
and evasions, in keenly appreciated secondary points. Perhaps the reader knows that Tintoretto
in the National Gallery, the Origin of the Milky Way. It is an admirable test of temperamental
quality. In spite of my early training I have come to regard that picture as altogether delightful;
to Margaret it has always been "needlessly offensive." In that you have our fundamental breach.
She had a habit, by no means rare, of damning what she did not like or find sympathetic in
me on the score that it was not my "true self," and she did not so much accept the universe
as select from it and do her best to ignore the rest. And also I had far more initiative than
had she. This is no catalogue of rights and wrongs, or superiorities and inferiorities; it
is a catalogue of differences between two people linked in a relationship that constantly becomes
more intolerant of differences.

This is how we stood to each other, and none of it was clear to either of us at the outset.
To begin with, I found myself reserving myself from her, then slowly apprehending a jarring
between our minds and what seemed to me at first a queer little habit of misunderstanding in
her....

It did not hinder my being very fond of her....

Where our system of reservation became at once most usual and most astounding was in our personal
relations. It is not too much to say that in that regard we never for a moment achieved sincerity
with one another during the first six years of our life together. It goes even deeper than
that, for in my effort to realise the ideal of my marriage I ceased even to attempt to be sincere
with myself. I would not admit my own perceptions and interpretations. I tried to fit myself
to her thinner and finer determinations. There are people who will say with a note of approval
that I was learning to conquer myself. I record that much without any note of approval....

For some years I never deceived Margaret about any concrete fact nor, except for the silence
about my earlier life that she had almost forced upon me, did I hide any concrete fact that
seemed to affect her, but from the outset I was guilty of immense spiritual concealments, my
very marriage was based, I see now, on a spiritual subterfuge; I hid moods from her, pretended
feelings....

3

The interest and excitement of setting-up a house, of walking about it from room to room and
from floor to floor, or sitting at one's own dinner table and watching one's wife control conversation
with a pretty, timid resolution, of taking a place among the secure and free people of our
world, passed almost insensibly into the interest and excitement of my Parliamentary candidature
for the Kinghamstead Division, that shapeless chunk of agricultural midland between the Great
Western and the North Western railways. I was going to "take hold" at last, the Kinghamstead
Division was my appointed handle. I was to find my place in the rather indistinctly sketched
constructions that were implicit in the minds of all our circle. The precise place I had to
fill and the precise functions I had to discharge were not as yet very clear, but all that,
we felt sure, would become plain as things developed.

A few brief months of vague activities of "nursing" gave place to the excitements of the contest
that followed the return of Mr. Camphell-Bannerman to power in 1905. So far as the Kinghamstead
Division was concerned it was a depressed and tepid battle. I went about the constituency making
three speeches that were soon threadbare, and an odd little collection of people worked for
me; two solicitors, a cheap photographer, a democratic parson, a number of dissenting ministers,
the Mayor of Kinghamstead, a Mrs. Bulger, the widow of an old Chartist who had grown rich through
electric traction patents, Sir Roderick Newton, a Jew who had bought Calersham Castle, and
old Sir Graham Rivers, that sturdy old soldier, were among my chief supporters. We had headquarters
in each town and village, mostly there were empty shops we leased temporarily, and there at
least a sort of fuss and a coming and going were maintained. The rest of the population stared
in a state of suspended judgment as we went about the business. The country was supposed to
be in a state of intellectual conflict and deliberate decision, in history it will no doubt
figure as a momentous conflict. Yet except for an occasional flare of bill-sticking or a bill
in a window or a placard-plastered motor-car or an argumentative group of people outside a
public-house or a sluggish movement towards the schoolroom or village hall, there was scarcely
a sign that a great empire was revising its destinies. Now and then one saw a canvasser on
a doorstep. For the most part people went about their business with an entirely irresponsible
confidence in the stability of the universe. At times one felt a little absurd with one's flutter
of colours and one's air of saving the country.

My opponent was a quite undistinguished Major-General who relied upon his advocacy of Protection,
and was particularly anxious we should avoid "personalities" and fight the constituency in
a gentlemanly spirit. He was always writing me notes, apologising for excesses on the part
of his supporters, or pointing out the undesirability of some course taken by mine.

My speeches had been planned upon broad lines, but they lost touch with these as the polling
approached. To begin with I made a real attempt to put what was in my mind before the people
I was to supply with a political voice. I spoke of the greatness of our empire and its destinies,
of the splendid projects and possibilities of life and order that lay before the world, of
all that a resolute and constructive effort might do at the present time. "We are building
a state," I said, "secure and splendid, we are in the dawn of the great age of mankind." Sometimes
that would get a solitary "'Ear! 'ear!" Then having created, as I imagined, a fine atmosphere,
I turned upon the history of the last Conservative administration and brought it into contrast
with the wide occasions of the age; discussed its failure to control the grasping financiers
in South Africa, its failure to release public education from sectarian squabbles, its misconduct
of the Boer War, its waste of the world's resources....

It soon became manifest that my opening and my general spaciousness of method bored my audiences
a good deal. The richer and wider my phrases the thinner sounded my voice in these non-resonating
gatherings. Even the platform supporters grew restive unconsciously, and stirred and coughed.
They did not recognise themselves as mankind. Building an empire, preparing a fresh stage in
the history of humanity, had no appeal for them. They were mostly everyday, toiling people,
full of small personal solicitudes, and they came to my meetings, I think, very largely as
a relaxation. This stuff was not relaxing. They did not think politics was a great constructive
process, they thought it was a kind of dog-fight. They wanted fun, they wanted spice, they
wanted hits, they wanted also a chance to say "'Ear', 'ear!" in an intelligent and honourable
manner and clap their hands and drum with their feet. The great constructive process in history
gives so little scope for clapping and drumming and saying "'Ear, 'ear!" One might as well
think of hounding on the solar system.

So after one or two attempts to lift my audiences to the level of the issues involved, I began
to adapt myself to them. I cut down my review of our imperial outlook and destinies more and
more, and developed a series of hits and anecdotes and--what shall I call them?--"crudifications"
of the issue. My helper's congratulated me on the rapid improvement of my platform style. I
ceased to speak of the late Prime Minister with the respect I bore him, and began to fall in
with the popular caricature of him as an artful rabbit-witted person intent only on keeping
his leadership, in spite of the vigorous attempts of Mr. Joseph Chamberlain to oust him therefrom.
I ceased to qualify my statement that Protection would make food dearer for the agricultural
labourer. I began to speak of Mr. Alfred Lyttelton as an influence at once insane and diabolical,
as a man inspired by a passionate desire to substitute manacled but still criminal Chinese
for honest British labourers throughout the world. And when it came to the mention of our own
kindly leader, of Mr. John Burns or any one else of any prominence at all on our side I fell
more and more into the intonation of one who mentions the high gods. And I had my reward in
brighter meetings and readier and readier applause.

One goes on from phase to phase in these things.

"After all," I told myself, "if one wants to get to Westminster one must follow the road that
leads there," but I found the road nevertheless rather unexpectedly distasteful. "When one
gets there," I said, "then it is one begins."

But I would lie awake at nights with that sore throat and headache and fatigue which come from
speaking in ill-ventilated rooms, and wondering how far it was possible to educate a whole
people to great political ideals. Why should political work always rot down to personalities
and personal appeals in this way? Life is, I suppose, to begin with and end with a matter of
personalities, from personalities all our broader interests arise and to personalities they
return. All our social and political effort, all of it, is like trying to make a crowd of people
fall into formation. The broader lines appear, but then come a rush and excitement and irrelevancy,
and forthwith the incipient order has vanished and the marshals must begin the work over again!

My memory of all that time is essentially confusion. There was a frightful lot of tiresome
locomotion in it; for the Kinghamstead Division is extensive, abounding in ill-graded and badly
metalled cross-roads and vicious little hills, and singularly unpleasing to the eye in a muddy
winter. It is sufficiently near to London to have undergone the same process of ill-regulated
expansion that made Bromstead the place it is. Several of its overgrown villages have developed
strings of factories and sidings along the railway lines, and there is an abundance of petty
villas. There seemed to be no place at which one could take hold of more than this or that
element of the population. Now we met in a meeting-house, now in a Masonic Hall or Drill Hall;
I also did a certain amount of open-air speaking in the dinner hour outside gas-works and groups
of factories. Some special sort of people was, as it were, secreted in response to each special
appeal. One said things carefully adjusted to the distinctive limitations of each gathering.
Jokes of an incredible silliness and shallowness drifted about us. Our advisers made us declare
that if we were elected we would live in the district, and one hasty agent had bills printed,
"If Mr. Remington is elected he will live here." The enemy obtained a number of these bills
and stuck them on outhouses, pigstyes, dog-kennels; you cannot imagine how irksome the repetition
of that jest became. The vast drifting indifference in between my meetings impressed me more
and more. I realised the vagueness of my own plans as I had never done before I brought them
to the test of this experience. I was perplexed by the riddle of just how far I was, in any
sense of the word, taking hold at all, how far I wasn't myself flowing into an accepted groove.

Margaret was troubled by no such doubts. She was clear I had to go into Parliament on the side
of Liberalism and the light, as against the late Government and darkness. Essential to the
memory of my first contest, is the memory of her clear bright face, very resolute and grave,
helping me consciously, steadfastly, with all her strength. Her quiet confidence, while I was
so dissatisfied, worked curiously towards the alienation of my sympathies. I felt she had no
business to be so sure of me. I had moments of vivid resentment at being thus marched towards
Parliament.

I seemed now always to be discovering alien forces of character in her. Her way of taking life
diverged from me more and more. She sounded amazing, independent notes. She bought some particularly
costly furs for the campaign that roused enthusiasm whenever she appeared. She also made me
a birthday present in November of a heavily fur-trimmed coat and this she would make me remove
as I went on to the platform, and hold over her arm until I was ready to resume it. It was
fearfully heavy for her and she liked it to be heavy for her. That act of servitude was in
essence a towering self-assertion. I would glance sideways while some chairman floundered through
his introduction and see the clear blue eye with which she regarded the audience, which existed
so far as she was concerned merely to return me to Parliament. It was a friendly eye, provided
they were not silly or troublesome. But it kindled a little at the hint of a hostile question.
After we had come so far and taken so much trouble!

She constituted herself the dragoman of our political travels. In hotels she was serenely resolute
for the quietest and the best, she rejected all their proposals for meals and substituted a
severely nourishing dietary of her own, and even in private houses she astonished me by her
tranquil insistence upon special comforts and sustenance. I can see her face now as it would
confront a hostess, a little intent, but sweetly resolute and assured.

Since our marriage she had read a number of political memoirs, and she had been particularly
impressed by the career of Mrs. Gladstone. I don't think it occurred to her to compare and
contrast my quality with that of Mrs. Gladstone's husband. I suspect her of a deliberate intention
of achieving parallel results by parallel methods. I was to be Gladstonised. Gladstone it appeared
used to lubricate his speeches with a mixture--if my memory serves me right--of egg beaten
up in sherry, and Margaret was very anxious I should take a leaf from that celebrated book.
She wanted, I know, to hold the glass in her hand while I was speaking.

But here I was firm. "No," I said, very decisively, "simply I won't stand that. It's a matter
of conscience. I shouldn't feel--democratic. I'll take my chance of the common water in the
carafe on the chairman's table."

"I DO wish you wouldn't," she said, distressed.

It was absurd to feel irritated; it was so admirable of her, a little childish, infinitely
womanly and devoted and fine--and I see now how pathetic. But I could not afford to succumb
to her. I wanted to follow my own leading, to see things clearly, and this reassuring pose
of a high destiny, of an almost terribly efficient pursuit of a fixed end when as a matter
of fact I had a very doubtful end and an aim as yet by no means fixed, was all too seductive
for dalliance....

4

And into all these things with the manner of a trifling and casual incident comes the figure
of Isabel Rivers. My first impressions of her were of a rather ugly and ungainly, extraordinarily
interesting schoolgirl with a beautiful quick flush under her warm brown skin, who said and
did amusing and surprising things. When first I saw her she was riding a very old bicycle downhill
with her feet on the fork of the frame--it seemed to me to the public danger, but afterwards
I came to understand the quality of her nerve better--and on the third occasion she was for
her own private satisfaction climbing a tree. On the intervening occasion we had what seems
now to have been a long sustained conversation about the political situation and the books
and papers I had written.

I wonder if it was.

What a delightful mixture of child and grave woman she was at that time, and how little I reckoned
on the part she would play in my life! And since she has played that part, how impossible it
is to tell now of those early days! Since I wrote that opening paragraph to this section my
idle pen has been, as it were, playing by itself and sketching faces on the blotting pad--one
impish wizened visage is oddly like little Bailey--and I have been thinking cheek on fist amidst
a limitless wealth of memories. She sits below me on the low wall under the olive trees with
our little child in her arms. She is now the central fact in my life. It still seems a little
incredible that that should be so. She has destroyed me as a politician, brought me to this
belated rebeginning of life. When I sit down and try to make her a girl again, I feel like
the Arabian fisherman who tried to put the genius back into the pot from which it had spread
gigantic across the skies....

I have a very clear vision of her rush downhill past our labouring ascendant car--my colours
fluttered from handle-bar and shoulder-knot--and her waving hand and the sharp note of her
voice. She cried out something, I don't know what, some greeting.

"What a pretty girl!" said Margaret.

Parvill, the cheap photographer, that industrious organiser for whom by way of repayment I
got those magic letters, that knighthood of the underlings, "J. P." was in the car with us
and explained her to us. "One of the best workers you have," he said....

And then after a toilsome troubled morning we came, rather cross from the strain of sustained
amiability, to Sir Graham Rivers' house. It seemed all softness and quiet--I recall dead white
panelling and oval mirrors horizontally set and a marble fireplace between white marble-blind
Homer and marble-blind Virgil, very grave and fine--and how Isabel came in to lunch in a shapeless
thing like a blue smock that made her bright quick-changing face seem yellow under her cloud
of black hair. Her step-sister was there, Miss Gamer, to whom the house was to descend, a well-dressed
lady of thirty, amiably disavowing responsibility for Isabel in every phrase and gesture. And
there was a very pleasant doctor, an Oxford man, who seemed on excellent terms with every one.
It was manifest that he was in the habit of sparring with the girl, but on this occasion she
wasn't sparring and refused to be teased into a display in spite of the taunts of either him
or her father. She was, they discovered with rising eyebrows, shy. It seemed an opportunity
too rare for them to miss. They proclaimed her enthusiasm for me in a way that brought a flush
to her cheek and a look into her eye between appeal and defiance. They declared she had read
my books, which I thought at the time was exaggeration, their dry political quality was so
distinctly not what one was accustomed to regard as schoolgirl reading. Miss Gamer protested
to protect her, "When once in a blue moon Isabel is well-behaved....!"

Except for these attacks I do not remember much of the conversation at table; it was, I know,
discursive and concerned with the sort of topographical and social and electioneering fact
natural to such a visit. Old Rivers struck me as a delightful person, modestly unconscious
of his doubly-earned V. C. and the plucky defence of Kardin-Bergat that won his baronetcy.
He was that excellent type, the soldier radical, and we began that day a friendship that was
only ended by his death in the hunting-field three years later. He interested Margaret into
a disregard of my plate and the fact that I had secured the illegal indulgence of Moselle.
After lunch we went for coffee into another low room, this time brown panelled and looking
through French windows on a red-walled garden, graceful even in its winter desolation. And
there the conversation suddenly picked up and became good. It had fallen to a pause, and the
doctor, with an air of definitely throwing off a mask and wrecking an established tranquillity,
remarked: "Very probably you Liberals will come in, though I'm not sure you'll come in so mightily
as you think, but what you do when you do come in passes my comprehension."

"There's good work sometimes," said Sir Graham, "in undoing."

"You can't govern a great empire by amending and repealing the Acts of your predecessors,"
said the doctor.

There came that kind of pause that happens when a subject is broached too big and difficult
for the gathering. Margaret's blue eyes regarded the speaker with quiet disapproval for a moment,
and then came to me in the not too confident hope that I would snub him out of existence with
some prompt rhetorical stroke. A voice spoke out of the big armchair.

"We'll do things," said Isabel.

The doctor's eye lit with the joy of the fisherman who strikes his fish at last. "What will
you do?" he asked her.

"Every one knows we're a mixed lot," said Isabel.

"Poor old chaps like me!" interjected the general.

"But that's not a programme," said the doctor.

"But Mr. Remington has published a programme," said Isabel.

The doctor cocked half an eye at me.

"In some review," the girl went on. "After all, we're not going to elect the whole Liberal
party in the Kinghamstead Division. I'm a Remington-ite!"

"But the programme," said the doctor, "the programme--"

"In front of Mr. Remington!"

"Scandal always comes home at last," said the doctor. "Let him hear the worst."

"I'd like to hear," I said. "Electioneering shatters convictions and enfeebles the mind."

"Not mine," said Isabel stoutly. "I mean--Well, anyhow I take it Mr. Remington stands for constructing
a civilised state out of this muddle."

"THIS muddle," protested the doctor with an appeal of the eye to the beautiful long room and
the ordered garden outside the bright clean windows.

"Well, THAT muddle, if you like! There's a slum within a mile of us already. The dust and blacks
get worse and worse, Sissie?"

"They do," agreed Miss Gamer.

"Mr. Remington stands for construction, order, education, discipline."

"And you?" said the doctor.

"I'm a good Remington-ite."

"Discipline!" said the doctor.

"Oh!" said Isabel. "At times one has to be--Napoleonic. They want to libel me, Mr. Remington.
A political worker can't always be in time for meals, can she? At times one has to make--splendid
cuts."

Miss Gamer said something indistinctly.

"Order, education, discipline," said Sir Graham. "Excellent things! But I've a sort of memory--in
my young days--we talked about something called liberty."

"Liberty under the law," I said, with an unexpected approving murmur from Margaret, and took
up the defence. "The old Liberal definition of liberty was a trifle uncritical. Privilege and
legal restrictions are not the only enemies of liberty. An uneducated, underbred, and underfed
propertyless man is a man who has lost the possibility of liberty. There's no liberty worth
a rap for him. A man who is swimming hopelessly for life wants nothing but the liberty to get
out of the water; he'll give every other liberty for it--until he gets out."

Sir Graham took me up and we fell into a discussion of the changing qualities of Liberalism.
It was a good give-and-take talk, extraordinarily refreshing after the nonsense and crowding
secondary issues of the electioneering outside. We all contributed more or less except Miss
Gamer; Margaret followed with knitted brows and occasional interjections. "People won't SEE
that," for example, and "It all seems so plain to me." The doctor showed himself clever but
unsubstantial and inconsistent. Isabel sat back with her black mop of hair buried deep in the
chair looking quickly from face to face. Her colour came and went with her vivid intellectual
excitement; occasionally she would dart a word, usually a very apt word, like a lizard's tongue
into the discussion. I remember chiefly that a chance illustration betrayed that she had read
Bishop Burnet....

After that it was not surprising that Isabel should ask for a lift in our car as far as the
Lurky Committee Room, and that she should offer me quite sound advice EN ROUTE upon the intellectual
temperament of the Lurky gasworkers.

On the third occasion that I saw Isabel she was, as I have said, climbing a tree--and a very
creditable tree--for her own private satisfaction. It was a lapse from the high seriousness
of politics, and I perceived she felt that I might regard it as such and attach too much importance
to it. I had some difficulty in reassuring her. And it's odd to note now--it has never occurred
to me before--that from that day to this I do not think I have ever reminded Isabel of that
encounter.

And after that memory she seems to be flickering about always in the election, an inextinguishable
flame; now she flew by on her bicycle, now she dashed into committee rooms, now she appeared
on doorsteps in animated conversation with dubious voters; I took every chance I could to talk
to her--I had never met anything like her before in the world, and she interested me immensely--and
before the polling day she and I had become, in the frankest simplicity, fast friends....

That, I think, sets out very fairly the facts of our early relationship. But it is hard to
get it true, either in form or texture, because of the bright, translucent, coloured, and refracting
memories that come between. One forgets not only the tint and quality of thoughts and impressions
through that intervening haze, one forgets them altogether. I don't remember now that I ever
thought in those days of passionate love or the possibility of such love between us. I may
have done so again and again. But I doubt it very strongly. I don't think I ever thought of
such aspects. I had no more sense of any danger between us, seeing the years and things that
separated us, than I could have had if she had been an intelligent bright-eyed bird. Isabel
came into my life as a new sort of thing; she didn't join on at all to my previous experiences
of womanhood. They were not, as I have laboured to explain, either very wide or very penetrating
experiences, on the whole, "strangled dinginess" expresses them, but I do not believe they
were narrower or shallower than those of many other men of my class. I thought of women as
pretty things and beautiful things, pretty rather than beautiful, attractive and at times disconcertingly
attractive, often bright and witty, but, because of the vast reservations that hid them from
me, wanting, subtly and inevitably wanting, in understanding. My idealisation of Margaret had
evaporated insensibly after our marriage. The shrine I had made for her in my private thoughts
stood at last undisguisedly empty. But Isabel did not for a moment admit of either idealisation
or interested contempt. She opened a new sphere of womanhood to me. With her steady amber-brown
eyes, her unaffected interest in impersonal things, her upstanding waistless blue body, her
energy, decision and courage, she seemed rather some new and infinitely finer form of boyhood
than a feminine creature, as I had come to measure femininity. She was my perfect friend. Could
I have foreseen, had my world been more wisely planned, to this day we might have been such
friends.

She seemed at that time unconscious of sex, though she has told me since how full she was of
protesting curiosities and restrained emotions. She spoke, as indeed she has always spoken,
simply, clearly, and vividly; schoolgirl slang mingled with words that marked ample voracious
reading, and she moved quickly with the free directness of some graceful young animal. She
took many of the easy freedoms a man or a sister might have done with me. She would touch my
arm, lay a hand on my shoulder as I sat, adjust the lapel of a breast-pocket as she talked
to me. She says now she loved me always from the beginning. I doubt if there was a suspicion
of that in her mind those days. I used to find her regarding me with the clearest, steadiest
gaze in the world, exactly like the gaze of some nice healthy innocent animal in a forest,
interested, inquiring, speculative, but singularly untroubled....

5

Polling day came after a last hoarse and dingy crescendo. The excitement was not of the sort
that makes one forget one is tired out. The waiting for the end of the count has left a long
blank mark on my memory, and then everyone was shaking my hand and repeating: "Nine hundred
and seventy-six."

My success had been a foregone conclusion since the afternoon, but we all behaved as though
we had not been anticipating this result for hours, as though any other figures but nine hundred
and seventy-six would have meant something entirely different. "Nine hundred and seventy-six!"
said Margaret. "They didn't expect three hundred."

"Nine hundred and seventy-six," said a little short man with a paper. "It means a big turnover.
Two dozen short of a thousand, you know."

A tremendous hullaboo began outside, and a lot of fresh people came into the room.

Isabel, flushed but not out of breath, Heaven knows where she had sprung from at that time
of night! was running her hand down my sleeve almost caressingly, with the innocent bold affection
of a girl. "Got you in!" she said. "It's been no end of a lark."

"And now," said I, "I must go and be constructive."

"Now you must go and be constructive," she said.

"You've got to live here," she added.

"By Jove! yes," I said. "We'll have to house hunt."

"I shall read all your speeches."

She hesitated.

"I wish I was you," she said, and said it as though it was not exactly the thing she was meaning
to say.

"They want you to speak," said Margaret, with something unsaid in her face.

"You must come out with me," I answered, putting my arm through hers, and felt someone urging
me to the French windows that gave on the balcony.

"If you think--" she said, yielding gladly

"Oh, RATHER!" said I.

The Mayor of Kinghamstead, a managing little man with no great belief in my oratorical powers,
was sticking his face up to mine.

"It's all over," he said, "and you've won. Say all the nice things you can and say them plainly."

I turned and handed Margaret out through the window and stood looking over the Market-place,
which was more than half filled with swaying people. The crowd set up a roar of approval at
the sight of us, tempered by a little booing. Down in one corner of the square a fight was
going on for a flag, a fight that even the prospect of a speech could not instantly check.
"Speech!" cried voices, "Speech!" and then a brief "boo-oo-oo" that was drowned in a cascade
of shouts and cheers. The conflict round the flag culminated in the smashing of a pane of glass
in the chemist's window and instantly sank to peace.

"Gentlemen voters of the Kinghamstead Division," I began.

"Votes for Women!" yelled a voice, amidst laughter--the first time I remember hearing that
memorable war-cry.

"Three cheers for Mrs. Remington!"

"Mrs. Remington asks me to thank you," I said, amidst further uproar and reiterated cries of
"Speech!"

Then silence came with a startling swiftness.

Isabel was still in my mind, I suppose. "I shall go to Westminster," I began. I sought for
some compelling phrase and could not find one. "To do my share," I went on, "in building up
a great and splendid civilisation."

I paused, and there was a weak gust of cheering, and then a renewal of booing.

"This election," I said, "has been the end and the beginning of much. New ideas are abroad--"

"Chinese labour," yelled a voice, and across the square swept a wildfire of booting and bawling.

It is one of the few occasions when I quite lost my hold on a speech. I glanced sideways and
saw the Mayor of Kinghamstead speaking behind his hand to Parvill. By a happy chance Parvill
caught my eye.

"What do they want?" I asked.

"Eh?"

"What do they want?"

"Say something about general fairness--the other side," prompted Parvill, flattered but a little
surprised by my appeal. I pulled myself hastily into a more popular strain with a gross eulogy
of my opponent's good taste.

"Chinese labour!" cried the voice again.

"You've given that notice to quit," I answered.

The Market-place roared delight, but whether that delight expressed hostility to Chinamen or
hostility to their practical enslavement no student of the General Election of 1906 has ever
been able to determine. Certainly one of the most effective posters on our side displayed a
hideous yellow face, just that and nothing more. There was not even a legend to it. How it
impressed the electorate we did not know, but that it impressed the electorate profoundly there
can be no disputing.

6

Kinghamstead was one of the earliest constituencies fought, and we came back--it must have
been Saturday--triumphant but very tired, to our house in Radnor Square. In the train we read
the first intimations that the victory of our party was likely to be a sweeping one.

Then came a period when one was going about receiving and giving congratulations and watching
the other men arrive, very like a boy who has returned to school with the first batch after
the holidays. The London world reeked with the General Election; it had invaded the nurseries.
All the children of one's friends had got big maps of England cut up into squares to represent
constituencies and were busy sticking gummed blue labels over the conquered red of Unionism
that had hitherto submerged the country. And there were also orange labels, if I remember rightly,
to represent the new Labour party, and green for the Irish. I engaged myself to speak at one
or two London meetings, and lunched at the Reform, which was fairly tepid, and dined and spent
one or two tumultuous evenings at the National Liberal Club, which was in active eruption.
The National Liberal became feverishly congested towards midnight as the results of the counting
came dropping in. A big green-baize screen had been fixed up at one end of the large smoking-room
with the names of the constituencies that were voting that day, and directly the figures came
to hand, up they went, amidst cheers that at last lost their energy through sheer repetition,
whenever there was record of a Liberal gain. I don't remember what happened when there was
a Liberal loss; I don't think that any were announced while I was there.

How packed and noisy the place was, and what a reek of tobacco and whisky fumes we made! Everybody
was excited and talking, making waves of harsh confused sound that beat upon one's ears, and
every now and then hoarse voices would shout for someone to speak. Our little set was much
in evidence. Both the Cramptons were in, Lewis, Bunting Harblow. We gave brief addresses attuned
to this excitement and the late hour, amidst much enthusiasm.

"Now we can DO things!" I said amidst a rapture of applause. Men I did not know from Adam held
up glasses and nodded to me in solemn fuddled approval as I came down past them into the crowd
again.

Men were betting whether the Unionists would lose more or less than two hundred seats.

"I wonder just what we shall do with it all," I heard one sceptic speculating....

After these orgies I would get home very tired and excited, and find it difficult to get to
sleep. I would lie and speculate about what it was we WERE going to do. One hadn't anticipated
quite such a tremendous accession to power for one's party. Liberalism was swirling in like
a flood....

I found the next few weeks very unsatisfactory and distressing. I don't clearly remember what
it was I had expected; I suppose the fuss and strain of the General Election had built up a
feeling that my return would in some way put power into my hands, and instead I found myself
a mere undistinguished unit in a vast but rather vague majority. There were moments when I
felt very distinctly that a majority could be too big a crowd altogether. I had all my work
still before me, I had achieved nothing as yet but opportunity, and a very crowded opportunity
it was at that. Everyone about me was chatting Parliament and appointments; one breathed distracting
and irritating speculations as to what would be done and who would be asked to do it. I was
chiefly impressed by what was unlikely to be done and by the absence of any general plan of
legislation to hold us all together. I found the talk about Parliamentary procedure and etiquette
particularly trying. We dined with the elder Cramptons one evening, and old Sir Edward was
lengthily sage about what the House liked, what it didn't like, what made a good impression
and what a bad one. "A man shouldn't speak more than twice in his first session, and not at
first on too contentious a topic," said Sir Edward. "No."

"Very much depends on manner. The House hates a lecturer. There's a sort of airy earnestness--"

He waved his cigar to eke out his words.

"Little peculiarities of costume count for a great deal. I could name one man who spent three
years living down a pair of spatterdashers. On the other hand--a thing like that--if it catches
the eye of the PUNCH man, for example, may be your making."

He went off into a lengthy speculation of why the House had come to like an originally unpopular
Irishman named Biggar....

The opening of Parliament gave me some peculiar moods. I began to feel more and more like a
branded sheep. We were sworn in in batches, dozens and scores of fresh men, trying not to look
too fresh under the inspection of policemen and messengers, all of us carrying new silk hats
and wearing magisterial coats. It is one of my vivid memories from this period, the sudden
outbreak of silk hats in the smoking-room of the National Liberal Club. At first I thought
there must have been a funeral. Familiar faces that one had grown to know under soft felt hats,
under bowlers, under liberal-minded wide brims, and above artistic ties and tweed jackets,
suddenly met one, staring with the stern gaze of self-consciousness, from under silk hats of
incredible glossiness. There was a disposition to wear the hat much too forward, I thought,
for a good Parliamentary style.

There was much play with the hats all through; a tremendous competition to get in first and
put hats on coveted seats. A memory hangs about me of the House in the early afternoon, an
inhumane desolation inhabited almost entirely by silk hats. The current use of cards to secure
seats came later. There were yards and yards of empty green benches with hats and hats and
hats distributed along them, resolute-looking top hats, lax top hats with a kind of shadowy
grin under them, sensible top bats brim upward, and one scandalous incontinent that had rolled
from the front Opposition bench right to the middle of the floor. A headless hat is surely
the most soulless thing in the world, far worse even than a skull....

At last, in a leisurely muddled manner we got to the Address; and I found myself packed in
a dense elbowing crowd to the right of the Speaker's chair; while the attenuated Opposition,
nearly leaderless after the massacre, tilted its brim to its nose and sprawled at its ease
amidst its empty benches.

There was a tremendous hullaboo about something, and I craned to see over the shoulder of the
man in front. "Order, order, order!"

"What's it about?" I asked.

The man in front of me was clearly no better informed, and then I gathered from a slightly
contemptuous Scotchman beside me that it was Chris Robinson had walked between the honourable
member in possession of the house and the Speaker. I caught a glimpse of him blushingly whispering
about his misadventure to a colleague. He was just that same little figure I had once assisted
to entertain at Cambridge, but grey-haired now, and still it seemed with the same knitted muffler
he had discarded for a reckless half-hour while he talked to us in Hatherleigh's rooms.

It dawned upon me that I wasn't particularly wanted in the House, and that I should get all
I needed of the opening speeches next day from the TIMES.

I made my way out and was presently walking rather aimlessly through the outer lobby.

I caught myself regarding the shadow that spread itself out before me, multiplied itself in
blue tints of various intensity, shuffled itself like a pack of cards under the many lights,
the square shoulders, the silk hat, already worn with a parliamentary tilt backward; I found
I was surveying this statesmanlike outline with a weak approval. "A MEMBER!" I felt the little
cluster of people that were scattered about the lobby must be saying.

"Good God!" I said in hot reaction, "what am I doing here?"

It was one of those moments infinitely trivial in themselves, that yet are cardinal in a man's
life. It came to me with extreme vividness that it wasn't so much that I had got hold of something
as that something had got hold of me. I distinctly recall the rebound of my mind. Whatever
happened in this Parliament, I at least would attempt something. "By God!" I said, "I won't
be overwhelmed. I am here to do something, and do something I will!"

But I felt that for the moment I could not remain in the House.

I went out by myself with my thoughts into the night. It was a chilling night, and rare spots
of rain were falling. I glanced over my shoulder at the lit windows of the Lords. I walked,
I remember, westward, and presently came to the Grosvenar Embankment and followed it, watching
the glittering black rush of the river and the dark, dimly lit barges round which the water
swirled. Across the river was the hunched sky-line of Doulton's potteries, and a kiln flared
redly. Dimly luminous trams were gliding amidst a dotted line of lamps, and two little trains
crawled into Waterloo station. Mysterious black figures came by me and were suddenly changed
to the commonplace at the touch of the nearer lamps. It was a big confused world, I felt, for
a man to lay his hands upon.

I remember I crossed Vauxhall Bridge and stood for a time watching the huge black shapes in
the darkness under the gas-works. A shoal of coal barges lay indistinctly on the darkly shining
mud and water below, and a colossal crane was perpetually hauling up coal into mysterious blacknesses
above, and dropping the empty clutch back to the barges. Just one or two minute black featureless
figures of men toiled amidst these monster shapes. They did not seem to be controlling them
but only moving about among them. These gas-works have a big chimney that belches a lurid flame
into the night, a livid shivering bluish flame, shot with strange crimson streaks....

On the other side of Lambeth Bridge broad stairs go down to the lapping water of the river;
the lower steps are luminous under the lamps and one treads unwarned into thick soft Thames
mud. They seem to be purely architectural steps, they lead nowhere, they have an air of absolute
indifference to mortal ends.

Those shapes and large inhuman places--for all of mankind that one sees at night about Lambeth
is minute and pitiful beside the industrial monsters that snort and toil there--mix up inextricably
with my memories of my first days as a legislator. Black figures drift by me, heavy vans clatter,
a newspaper rough tears by on a motor bicycle, and presently, on the Albert Embankment, every
seat has its one or two outcasts huddled together and slumbering.

"These things come, these things go," a whispering voice urged upon me, "as once those vast
unmeaning Saurians whose bones encumber museums came and went rejoicing noisily in fruitless
lives."...

Fruitless lives!--was that the truth of it all?...

Later I stood within sight of the Houses of Parliament in front of the colonnades of St Thomas's
Hospital. I leant on the parapet close by a lamp-stand of twisted dolphins--and I prayed!

I remember the swirl of the tide upon the water, and how a string of barges presently came
swinging and bumping round as high-water turned to ebb. That sudden change of position and
my brief perplexity at it, sticks like a paper pin through the substance of my thoughts. It
was then I was moved to prayer. I prayed that night that life might not be in vain, that in
particular I might not live in vain. I prayed for strength and faith, that the monstrous blundering
forces in life might not overwhelm me, might not beat me back to futility and a meaningless
acquiescence in existent things. I knew myself for the weakling I was, I knew that nevertheless
it was set for me to make such order as I could out of these disorders, and my task cowed me,
gave me at the thought of it a sense of yielding feebleness.

"Break me, O God," I prayed at last, "disgrace me, torment me, destroy me as you will, but
save me from self-complacency and little interests and little successes and the life that passes
like the shadow of a dream."

BOOK THE THIRD: THE HEART OF POLITICS

CHAPTER THE FIRST ~~ THE RIDDLE FOR THE STATESMAN

1

I have been planning and replanning, writing and rewriting, this next portion of my book for
many days. I perceive I must leave it raw edged and ill joined. I have learnt something of
the impossibility of History. For all I have had to tell is the story of one man's convictions
and aims and how they reacted upon his life; and I find it too subtle and involved and intricate
for the doing. I find it taxes all my powers to convey even the main forms and forces in that
development. It is like looking through moving media of changing hue and variable refraction
at something vitally unstable. Broad theories and generalisations are mingled with personal
influences, with prevalent prejudices; and not only coloured but altered by phases of hopefulness
and moods of depression. The web is made up of the most diverse elements, beyond treatment
multitudinous.... For a week or so I desisted altogether, and walked over the mountains and
returned to sit through the warm soft mornings among the shaded rocks above this little perched-up
house of ours, discussing my difficulties with Isabel and I think on the whole complicating
them further in the effort to simplify them to manageable and stateable elements.

Let me, nevertheless, attempt a rough preliminary analysis of this confused process. A main
strand is quite easily traceable. This main strand is the story of my obvious life, my life
as it must have looked to most of my acquaintances. It presents you with a young couple, bright,
hopeful, and energetic, starting out under Altiora's auspices to make a career. You figure
us well dressed and active, running about in motor-cars, visiting in great people's houses,
dining amidst brilliant companies, going to the theatre, meeting in the lobby. Margaret wore
hundreds of beautiful dresses. We must have had an air of succeeding meritoriously during that
time.

We did very continually and faithfully serve our joint career. I thought about it a great deal,
and did and refrained from doing ten thousand things for the sake of it. I kept up a solicitude
for it, as it were by inertia, long after things had happened and changes occurred in me that
rendered its completion impossible. Under certain very artless pretences, we wanted steadfastly
to make a handsome position in the world, achieve respect, SUCCEED. Enormous unseen changes
had been in progress for years in my mind and the realities of my life, before our general
circle could have had any inkling of their existence, or suspected the appearances of our life.
Then suddenly our proceedings began to be deflected, our outward unanimity visibly strained
and marred by the insurgence of these so long-hidden developments.

That career had its own hidden side, of course; but when I write of these unseen factors I
do not mean that but something altogether broader. I do not mean the everyday pettinesses which
gave the cynical observer scope and told of a narrower, baser aspect of the fair but limited
ambitions of my ostensible self. This "sub-careerist" element noted little things that affected
the career, made me suspicious of the rivalry of so-and-so, propitiatory to so-and-so, whom,
as a matter of fact, I didn't respect or feel in the least sympathetic towards; guarded with
that man, who for all his charm and interest wasn't helpful, and a little touchy at the appearance
of neglect from that. No, I mean something greater and not something smaller when I write of
a hidden life. But I am tremendously impressed now in the retrospect by the realisation of
how little that frontage represented me, and just how little such frontages do represent the
complexities of the intelligent contemporary. Behind it, yet struggling to disorganise and
alter it, altogether, was a far more essential reality, a self less personal, less individualised,
and broader in its references. Its aims were never simply to get on; it had an altogether different
system of demands and satisfactions. It was critical, curious, more than a little unfeeling--and
relentlessly illuminating.

It is just the existence and development of this more generalised self-behind-the-frontage
that is making modern life so much more subtle and intricate to render, and so much more hopeful
in its relations to the perplexities of the universe. I see this mental and spiritual hinterland
vary enormously in the people about me, from a type which seems to keep, as people say, all
its goods in the window, to others who, like myself, come to regard the ostensible existence
more and more as a mere experimental feeder and agent for that greater personality behind.
And this back-self has its history of phases, its crises and happy accidents and irrevocable
conclusions, more or less distinct from the adventures and achievements of the ostensible self.
It meets persons and phrases, it assimilates the spirit of a book, it is startled into new
realisations by some accident that seems altogether irrelevant to the general tenor of one's
life. Its increasing independence of the ostensible career makes it the organ of corrective
criticism; it accumulates disturbing energy. Then it breaks our overt promises and repudiates
our pledges, coming down at last like an overbearing mentor upon the small engagements of the
pupil.

In the life of the individual it takes the role that the growth of philosophy, science, and
creative literature may play in the development of mankind.

2

It is curious to recall how Britten helped shatter that obvious, lucidly explicable presentation
of myself upon which I had embarked with Margaret. He returned to revive a memory of adolescent
dreams and a habit of adolescent frankness; he reached through my shallow frontage as no one
else seemed capable of doing, and dragged that back-self into relation with it.

I remember very distinctly a dinner and a subsequent walk with him which presents itself now
as altogether typical of the quality of his influence.

I had come upon him one day while lunching with Somers and Sutton at the Playwrights' Club,
and had asked him to dinner on the spur of the moment. He was oddly the same curly-headed,
red-faced ventriloquist, and oddly different, rather seedy as well as untidy, and at first
a little inclined to make comparisons with my sleek successfulness. But that disposition presently
evaporated, and his talk was good and fresh and provocative. And something that had long been
straining at its checks in my mind flapped over, and he and I found ourselves of one accord.

Altiora wasn't at this dinner. When she came matters were apt to become confusedly strenuous.
There was always a slight and ineffectual struggle at the end on the part of Margaret to anticipate
Altiora's overpowering tendency to a rally and the establishment of some entirely unjustifiable
conclusion by a COUP-DE-MAIN. When, however, Altiora was absent, the quieter influence of the
Cramptons prevailed; temperance and information for its own sake prevailed excessively over
dinner and the play of thought.... Good Lord! what bores the Cramptons were! I wonder I endured
them as I did. They had all of them the trick of lying in wait conversationally; they had no
sense of the self-exposures, the gallant experiments in statement that are necessary for good
conversation. They would watch one talking with an expression exactly like peeping through
bushes. Then they would, as it were, dash out, dissent succinctly, contradict some secondary
fact, and back to cover. They gave one twilight nerves. Their wives were easier but still difficult
at a stretch; they talked a good deal about children and servants, but with an air caught from
Altiora of making observations upon sociological types. Lewis gossiped about the House in an
entirely finite manner. He never raised a discussion; nobody ever raised a discussion. He would
ask what we thought of Evesham's question that afternoon, and Edward would say it was good,
and Mrs. Willie, who had been behind the grille, would think it was very good, and then Willie,
parting the branches, would say rather conclusively that he didn't think it was very much good,
and I would deny hearing the question in order to evade a profitless statement of views in
that vacuum, and then we would cast about in our minds for some other topic of equal interest....

On this occasion Altiora was absent, and to qualify our Young Liberal bleakness we had Mrs.
Millingham, with her white hair and her fresh mind and complexion, and Esmeer. Willie Crampton
was with us, but not his wife, who was having her third baby on principle; his brother Edward
was present, and the Lewises, and of course the Bunting Harblows. There was also some other
lady. I remember her as pale blue, but for the life of me I cannot remember her name.

Quite early there was a little breeze between Edward Crampton and Esmeer, who had ventured
an opinion about the partition of Poland. Edward was at work then upon the seventh volume of
his monumental Life of Kosciusko, and a little impatient with views perhaps not altogether
false but betraying a lamentable ignorance of accessible literature. At any rate, his correction
of Esmeer was magisterial. After that there was a distinct and not altogether delightful pause,
and then some one, it may have been the pale-blue lady, asked Mrs. Lewis whether her aunt Lady
Carmixter had returned from her rest-and-sun-cure in Italy. That led to a rather anxiously
sustained talk about regimen, and Willie told us how he had profited by the no-breakfast system.
It had increased his power of work enormously. He could get through ten hours a day now without
inconvenience.

"What do you do?" said Esmeer abruptly.

"Oh! no end of work. There's all the estate and looking after things."

"But publicly?"

"I asked three questions yesterday. And for one of them I had to consult nine books!"

We were drifting, I could see, towards Doctor Haig's system of dietary, and whether the exclusion
or inclusion of fish and chicken were most conducive to high efficiency, when Britten, who
had refused lemonade and claret and demanded Burgundy, broke out, and was discovered to be
demanding in his throat just what we Young Liberals thought we were up to?

"I want," said Britten, repeating his challenge a little louder, "to hear just exactly what
you think you are doing in Parliament?"

Lewis laughed nervously, and thought we were "Seeking the Good of the Community."

"HOW?"

"Beneficient Legislation," said Lewis.

"Beneficient in what direction?" insisted Britten. "I want to know where you think you are going."

"Amelioration of Social Conditions," said Lewis.

"That's only a phrase!"

"You wouldn't have me sketch bills at dinner?"

"I'd like you to indicate directions," said Britten, and waited.

"Upward and On," said Lewis with conscious neatness, and turned to ask Mrs. Bunting Harblow
about her little boy's French.

For a time talk frothed over Britten's head, but the natural mischief in Mrs. Millingham had
been stirred, and she was presently echoing his demand in lisping, quasi-confidential undertones.
"What ARE we Liberals doing?" Then Esmeer fell in with the revolutionaries.

To begin with, I was a little shocked by this clamour for fundamentals--and a little disconcerted.
I had the experience that I suppose comes to every one at times of discovering oneself together
with two different sets of people with whom one has maintained two different sets of attitudes.
It had always been, I perceived, an instinctive suppression in our circle that we shouldn't
be more than vague about our political ideals. It had almost become part of my morality to
respect this convention. It was understood we were all working hard, and keeping ourselves
fit, tremendously fit, under Altiora's inspiration, Pro Bono Publico. Bunting Harblow had his
under-secretaryship, and Lewis was on the verge of the Cabinet, and these things we considered
to be in the nature of confirmations.... It added to the discomfort of the situation that these
plunging enquiries were being made in the presence of our wives.

The rebel section of our party forced the talk.

Edward Crampton was presently declaring--I forget in what relation: "The country is with us."

My long-controlled hatred of the Cramptons' stereotyped phrases about the Country and the House
got the better of me. I showed my cloven hoof to my friends for the first time.

"We don't respect the Country as we used to do," I said. "We haven't the same belief we used
to have in the will of the people. It's no good, Crampton, trying to keep that up. We Liberals
know as a matter of fact--nowadays every one knows--that the monster that brought us into power
has, among other deficiencies, no head. We've got to give it one--if possible with brains and
a will. That lies in the future. For the present if the country is with us, it means merely
that we happen to have hold of its tether."

Lewis was shocked. A "mandate" from the Country was sacred to his system of pretences.

Britten wasn't subdued by his first rebuff; presently he was at us again. There were several
attempts to check his outbreak of interrogation; I remember the Cramptons asked questions about
the welfare of various cousins of Lewis who were unknown to the rest of us, and Margaret tried
to engage Britten in a sympathetic discussion of the Arts and Crafts exhibition. But Britten
and Esmeer were persistent, Mrs. Millingham was mischievous, and in the end our rising hopes
of Young Liberalism took to their thickets for good, while we talked all over them of the prevalent
vacuity of political intentions. Margaret was perplexed by me. It is only now I perceive just
how perplexing I must have been. "Of course, she said with that faint stress of apprehension
in her eyes, one must have aims." And, "it isn't always easy to put everything into phrases."
"Don't be long," said Mrs. Edward Crampton to her husband as the wives trooped out. And afterwards
when we went upstairs I had an indefinable persuasion that the ladies had been criticising
Britten's share in our talk in an altogether unfavourable spirit. Mrs. Edward evidently thought
him aggressive and impertinent, and Margaret with a quiet firmness that brooked no resistance,
took him at once into a corner and showed him Italian photographs by Coburn. We dispersed early.

I walked with Britten along the Chelsea back streets towards Battersea Bridge--he lodged on
the south side.

"Mrs. Millingham's a dear," he began.

"She's a dear."

"I liked her demand for a hansom because a four-wheeler was too safe."

"She was worked up," I said. "She's a woman of faultless character, but her instincts, as Altiora
would say, are anarchistic--when she gives them a chance."

"So she takes it out in hansom cabs."

"Hansom cabs."

"She's wise," said Britten....

"I hope, Remington," he went on after a pause, "I didn't rag your other guests too much. I've
a sort of feeling at moments--Remington, those chaps are so infernally not--not bloody. It's
part of a man's duty sometimes at least to eat red beef and get drunk. How is he to understand
government if he doesn't? It scares me to think of your lot--by a sort of misapprehension--being
in power. A kind of neuralgia in the head, by way of government. I don't understand where YOU
come in. Those others--they've no lusts. Their ideal is anaemia. You and I, we had at least
a lust to take hold of life and make something of it. They--they want to take hold of life
and make nothing of it. They want to cut out all the stimulants. Just as though life was anything
else but a reaction to stimulation!"...

He began to talk of his own life. He had had ill-fortune through most of it. He was poor and
unsuccessful, and a girl he had been very fond of had been attacked and killed by a horse in
a field in a very horrible manner. These things had wounded and tortured him, but they hadn't
broken him. They had, it seemed to me, made a kind of crippled and ugly demigod of him. He
was, I began to perceive, so much better than I had any right to expect. At first I had been
rather struck by his unkempt look, and it made my reaction all the stronger. There was about
him something, a kind of raw and bleeding faith in the deep things of life, that stirred me
profoundly as he showed it. My set of people had irritated him and disappointed him. I discovered
at his touch how they irritated him. He reproached me boldly. He made me feel ashamed of my
easy acquiescences as I walked in my sleek tall neatness beside his rather old coat, his rather
battered hat, his sturdier shorter shape, and listened to his denunciations of our self-satisfied
New Liberalism and Progressivism.

"It has the same relation to progress--the reality of progress--that the things they paint
on door panels in the suburbs have to art and beauty. There's a sort of filiation.... Your
Altiora's just the political equivalent of the ladies who sell traced cloth for embroidery;
she's a dealer in Refined Social Reform for the Parlour. The real progress, Remington, is a
graver thing and a painfuller thing and a slower thing altogether. Look! THAT"--and he pointed
to where under a boarding in the light of a gas lamp a dingy prostitute stood lurking--"was
in Babylon and Nineveh. Your little lot make believe there won't be anything of the sort after
this Parliament! They're going to vanish at a few top notes from Altiora Bailey! Remington!--it's
foolery. It's prigs at play. It's make-believe, make-believe! Your people there haven't got
hold of things, aren't beginning to get hold of things, don't know anything of life at all,
shirk life, avoid life, get in little bright clean rooms and talk big over your bumpers of
lemonade while the Night goes by outside--untouched. Those Crampton fools slink by all this,"--he
waved at the woman again--"pretend it doesn't exist, or is going to be banished root and branch
by an Act to keep children in the wet outside public-houses. Do you think they really care,
Remington? I don't. It's make-believe. What they want to do, what Lewis wants to do, what Mrs.
Bunting Harblow wants her husband to do, is to sit and feel very grave and necessary and respected
on the Government benches. They think of putting their feet out like statesmen, and tilting
shiny hats with becoming brims down over their successful noses. Presentation portrait to a
club at fifty. That's their Reality. That's their scope. They don't, it's manifest, WANT to
think beyond that. The things there ARE, Remington, they'll never face! the wonder and the
depth of life,--lust, and the night-sky,--pain."

"But the good intention," I pleaded, "the Good Will!"

"Sentimentality," said Britten. "No Good Will is anything but dishonesty unless it frets and
burns and hurts and destroys a man. That lot of yours have nothing but a good will to think
they have good will. Do you think they lie awake of nights searching their hearts as we do?
Lewis? Crampton? Or those neat, admiring, satisfied little wives? See how they shrank from
the probe!"

"We all," I said, "shrink from the probe."

"God help us!" said Britten....

"We are but vermin at the best, Remington," he broke out, "and the greatest saint only a worm
that has lifted its head for a moment from the dust. We are damned, we are meant to be damned,
coral animalculae building upward, upward in a sea of damnation. But of all the damned things
that ever were damned, your damned shirking, temperate, sham-efficient, self-satisfied, respectable,
make-believe, Fabian-spirited Young Liberal is the utterly damnedest." He paused for a moment,
and resumed in an entirely different note: "Which is why I was so surprised, Remington, to
find YOU in this set!"

"You're just the old plunger you used to be, Britten," I said. "You're going too far with all
your might for the sake of the damns. Like a donkey that drags its cart up a bank to get thistles.
There's depths in Liberalism--"

"We were talking about Liberals."

"Liberty!"

"Liberty! What do YOOR little lot know of liberty?"

"What does any little lot know of liberty?"

"It waits outside, too big for our understanding. Like the night and the stars. And lust, Remington!
lust and bitterness! Don't I know them? with all the sweetness and hope of life bitten and
trampled, the dear eyes and the brain that loved and understood--and my poor mumble of a life
going on! I'm within sight of being a drunkard, Remington! I'm a failure by most standards!
Life has cut me to the bone. But I'm not afraid of it any more. I've paid something of the
price, I've seen something of the meaning."

He flew off at a tangent. "I'd rather die in Delirium Tremens," he cried, "than be a Crampton
or a Lewis...."

"Make-believe. Make-believe." The phrase and Britten's squat gestures haunted me as I walked
homeward alone. I went to my room and stood before my desk and surveyed papers and files and
Margaret's admirable equipment of me.

I perceived in the lurid light of Britten's suggestions that so it was Mr. George Alexander
would have mounted a statesman's private room....

3

I was never at any stage a loyal party man. I doubt if party will ever again be the force it
was during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Men are becoming increasingly constructive
and selective, less patient under tradition and the bondage of initial circumstances. As education
becomes more universal and liberating, men will sort themselves more and more by their intellectual
temperaments and less and less by their accidental associations. The past will rule them less;
the future more. It is not simply party but school and college and county and country that
lose their glamour. One does not hear nearly as much as our forefathers did of the "old Harrovian,"
"old Arvonian," "old Etonian" claim to this or that unfair advantage or unearnt sympathy. Even
the Scotch and the Devonians weaken a little in their clannishness. A widening sense of fair
play destroys such things. They follow freemasonry down--freemasonry of which one is chiefly
reminded nowadays in England by propitiatory symbols outside shady public-houses....

There is, of course, a type of man which clings very obstinately to party ties. These are the
men with strong reproductive imaginations and no imaginative initiative, such men as Cladingbowl,
for example, or Dayton. They are the scholars-at-large in life. For them the fact that the
party system has been essential in the history of England for two hundred years gives it an
overwhelming glamour. They have read histories and memoirs, they see the great grey pile of
Westminster not so much for what it is as for what it was, rich with dramatic memories, populous
with glorious ghosts, phrasing itself inevitably in anecdotes and quotations. It seems almost
scandalous that new things should continue to happen, swamping with strange qualities the savour
of these old associations.

That Mr. Ramsay Macdonald should walk through Westminster Hall, thrust himself, it may be,
through the very piece of space that once held Charles the Martyr pleading for his life, seems
horrible profanation to Dayton, a last posthumous outrage; and he would, I think, like to have
the front benches left empty now for ever, or at most adorned with laureated ivory tablets:
"Here Dizzy sat," and "On this Spot William Ewart Gladstone made his First Budget Speech."
Failing this, he demands, if only as signs of modesty and respect on the part of the survivors,
meticulous imitation. "Mr. G.," he murmurs, "would not have done that," and laments a vanished
subtlety even while Mr. Evesham is speaking. He is always gloomily disposed to lapse into wonderings
about what things are coming to, wonderings that have no grain of curiosity. His conception
of perfect conduct is industrious persistence along the worn-down, well-marked grooves of the
great recorded days. So infinitely more important to him is the documented, respected thing
than the elusive present.

Cladingbowl and Dayton do not shine in the House, though Cladingbowl is a sound man on a committee,
and Dayton keeps the OLD COUNTRY GAZETTE, the most gentlemanly paper in London. They prevail,
however, in their clubs at lunch time. There, with the pleasant consciousness of a morning's
work free from either zeal or shirking, they mingle with permanent officials, prominent lawyers,
even a few of the soberer type of business men, and relax their minds in the discussion of
the morning paper, of the architecture of the West End, and of the latest public appointments,
of golf, of holiday resorts, of the last judicial witticisms and forensic "crushers." The New
Year and Birthday honours lists are always very sagely and exhaustively considered, and anecdotes
are popular and keenly judged. They do not talk of the things that are really active in their
minds, but in the formal and habitual manner they suppose to be proper to intelligent but still
honourable men. Socialism, individual money matters, and religion are forbidden topics, and
sex and women only in so far as they appear in the law courts. It is to me the strangest of
conventions, this assumption of unreal loyalties and traditional respects, this repudiation
and concealment of passionate interests. It is like wearing gloves in summer fields, or bathing
in a gown, or falling in love with the heroine of a novel, or writing under a pseudonym, or
becoming a masked Tuareg....

It is not, I think, that men of my species are insensitive to the great past that is embodied
in Westminster and its traditions; we are not so much wanting in the historical sense as alive
to the greatness of our present opportunities and the still vaster future that is possible
to us. London is the most interesting, beautiful, and wonderful city in the world to me, delicate
in her incidental and multitudinous littleness, and stupendous in her pregnant totality; I
cannot bring myself to use her as a museum or an old bookshop. When I think of Whitehall that
little affair on the scaffold outside the Banqueting Hall seems trivial and remote in comparison
with the possibilities that offer themselves to my imagination within the great grey Government
buildings close at hand.

It gives me a qualm of nostalgia even to name those places now. I think of St. Stephen's tower
streaming upwards into the misty London night and the great wet quadrangle of New Palace Yard,
from which the hansom cabs of my first experiences were ousted more and more by taxicabs as
the second Parliament of King Edward the Seventh aged; I think of the Admiralty and War office
with their tall Marconi masts sending out invisible threads of direction to the armies in the
camps, to great fleets about the world. The crowded, darkly shining river goes flooding through
my memory once again, on to those narrow seas that part us from our rival nations; I see quadrangles
and corridors of spacious grey-toned offices in which undistinguished little men and little
files of papers link us to islands in the tropics, to frozen wildernesses gashed for gold,
to vast temple-studded plains, to forest worlds and mountain worlds, to ports and fortresses
and lighthouses and watch-towers and grazing lands and corn lands all about the globe. Once
more I traverse Victoria Street, grimy and dark, where the Agents of the Empire jostle one
another, pass the big embassies in the West End with their flags and scutcheons, follow the
broad avenue that leads to Buckingham Palace, witness the coming and going of troops and officials
and guests along it from every land on earth.... Interwoven in the texture of it all, mocking,
perplexing, stimulating beyond measure, is the gleaming consciousness, the challenging knowledge:
"You and your kind might still, if you could but grasp it here, mould all the destiny of Man!"

4

My first three years in Parliament were years of active discontent. The little group of younger
Liberals to which I belonged was very ignorant of the traditions and qualities of our older
leaders, and quite out of touch with the mass of the party. For a time Parliament was enormously
taken up with moribund issues and old quarrels. The early Educational legislation was sectarian
and unenterprising, and the Licensing Bill went little further than the attempted rectification
of a Conservative mistake. I was altogether for the nationalisation of the public-houses, and
of this end the Bill gave no intimations. It was just beer-baiting. I was recalcitrant almost
from the beginning, and spoke against the Government so early as the second reading of the
first Education Bill, the one the Lords rejected in 1906. I went a little beyond my intention
in the heat of speaking,--it is a way with inexperienced man. I called the Bill timid, narrow,
a mere sop to the jealousies of sects and little-minded people. I contrasted its aim and methods
with the manifest needs of the time.

I am not a particularly good speaker; after the manner of a writer I worry to find my meaning
too much; but this was one of my successes. I spoke after dinner and to a fairly full House,
for people were already a little curious about me because of my writings. Several of the Conservative
leaders were present and stayed, and Mr. Evesham, I remember, came ostentatiously to hear me,
with that engaging friendliness of his, and gave me at the first chance an approving "Hear,
Hear!" I can still recall quite distinctly my two futile attempts to catch the Speaker's eye
before I was able to begin, the nervous quiver of my rather too prepared opening, the effect
of hearing my own voice and my subconscious wonder as to what I could possibly be talking about,
the realisation that I was getting on fairly well, the immense satisfaction afterwards of having
on the whole brought it off, and the absurd gratitude I felt for that encouraging cheer.

Addressing the House of Commons is like no other public speaking in the world. Its semi-colloquial
methods give it an air of being easy, but its shifting audience, the comings and goings and
hesitations of members behind the chair--not mere audience units, but men who matter--the desolating
emptiness that spreads itself round the man who fails to interest, the little compact, disciplined
crowd in the strangers' gallery, the light, elusive, flickering movements high up behind the
grill, the wigged, attentive, weary Speaker, the table and the mace and the chapel-like Gothic
background with its sombre shadows, conspire together, produce a confused, uncertain feeling
in me, as though I was walking upon a pavement full of trap-doors and patches of uncovered
morass. A misplaced, well-meant "Hear, Hear!" is apt to be extraordinarily disconcerting, and
under no other circumstances have I had to speak with quite the same sideways twist that the
arrangement of the House imposes. One does not recognise one's own voice threading out into
the stirring brown. Unless I was excited or speaking to the mind of some particular person
in the house, I was apt to lose my feeling of an auditor. I had no sense of whither my sentences
were going, such as one has with a public meeting well under one's eye. And to lose one's sense
of an auditor is for a man of my temperament to lose one's sense of the immediate, and to become
prolix and vague with qualifications.

5

My discontents with the Liberal party and my mental exploration of the quality of party generally
is curiously mixed up with certain impressions of things and people in the National Liberal
Club. The National Liberal Club is Liberalism made visible in the flesh--and Doultonware. The
pensive member sits and hears perplexing dialects and even fragments of foreign speech, and
among the clustering masses of less insistent whites his roving eye catches profiles and complexions
that send his mind afield to Calcutta or Rangoon or the West Indies or Sierra Leone or the Cape....

I was not infrequently that pensive member. I used to go to the Club to doubt about Liberalism.

About two o'clock in the day the great smoking-room is crowded with countless little groups.
They sit about small round tables, or in circles of chairs, and the haze of tobacco seems to
prolong the great narrow place, with its pillars and bays, to infinity. Some of the groups
are big, as many as a dozen men talk in loud tones; some are duologues, and there is always
a sprinkling of lonely, dissociated men. At first one gets an impression of men going from
group to group and as it were linking them, but as one watches closely one finds that these
men just visit three or four groups at the outside, and know nothing of the others. One begins
to perceive more and more distinctly that one is dealing with a sort of human mosaic; that
each patch in that great place is of a different quality and colour from the next and never
to be mixed with it. Most clubs have a common link, a lowest common denominator in the Club
Bore, who spares no one, but even the National Liberal bores are specialised and sectional.
As one looks round one sees here a clump of men from the North Country or the Potteries, here
an island of South London politicians, here a couple of young Jews ascendant from Whitechapel,
here a circle of journalists and writers, here a group of Irish politicians, here two East
Indians, here a priest or so, here a clump of old-fashioned Protestants, here a little knot
of eminent Rationalists indulging in a blasphemous story SOTTO VOCE. Next them are a group
of anglicised Germans and highly specialised chess-players, and then two of the oddest-looking
persons--bulging with documents and intent upon extraordinary business transactions over long
cigars....

I would listen to a stormy sea of babblement, and try to extract some constructive intimations.
Every now and then I got a whiff of politics. It was clear they were against the Lords--against
plutocrats--against Cossington's newspapers--against the brewers.... It was tremendously clear
what they were against. The trouble was to find out what on earth they were for!...

As I sat and thought, the streaked and mottled pillars and wall, the various views, aspects,
and portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Gladstone, the partitions of polished mahogany, the yellow-vested
waiters, would dissolve and vanish, and I would have a vision of this sample of miscellaneous
men of limited, diverse interests and a universal littleness of imagination enlarged, unlimited,
no longer a sample but a community, spreading, stretching out to infinity--all in little groups
and duologues and circles, all with their special and narrow concerns, all with their backs
to most of the others.

What but a common antagonism would ever keep these multitudes together? I understood why modern
electioneering is more than half of it denunciation. Let us condemn, if possible, let us obstruct
and deprive, but not let us do. There is no real appeal to the commonplace mind in "Let us
do." That calls for the creative imagination, and few have been accustomed to respond to that
call. The other merely needs jealousy and bate, of which there are great and easily accessible
reservoirs in every human heart....

I remember that vision of endless, narrow, jealous individuality very vividly. A seething limitlessness
it became at last, like a waste place covered by crawling locusts that men sweep up by the
sackload and drown by the million in ditches....

Grotesquely against it came the lean features, the sidelong shy movements of Edward Crampton,
seated in a circle of talkers close at hand. I had a whiff of his strained, unmusical voice,
and behold! he was saying something about the "Will of the People...."

The immense and wonderful disconnectednesses of human life! I forgot the smoke and jabber of
the club altogether; I became a lonely spirit flung aloft by some queer accident, a stone upon
a ledge in some high and rocky wilderness, and below as far as the eye could reach stretched
the swarming infinitesimals of humanity, like grass upon the field, like pebbles upon unbounded
beaches. Was there ever to be in human life more than that endless struggling individualism?
Was there indeed some giantry, some immense valiant synthesis, still to come--or present it
might be and still unseen by me, or was this the beginning and withal the last phase of mankind?...

I glimpsed for a while the stupendous impudence of our ambitions, the tremendous enterprise
to which the modern statesman is implicitly addressed. I was as it were one of a little swarm
of would-be reef builders looking back at the teeming slime upon the ocean floor. All the history
of mankind, all the history of life, has been and will be the story of something struggling
out of the indiscriminated abyss, struggling to exist and prevail over and comprehend individual
lives--an effort of insidious attraction, an idea of invincible appeal. That something greater
than ourselves, which does not so much exist as seek existence, palpitating between being and
not-being, how marvellous it is! It has worn the form and visage of ten thousand different
gods, sought a shape for itself in stone and ivory and music and wonderful words, spoken more
and more clearly of a mystery of love, a mystery of unity, dabbling meanwhile in blood and
cruelty beyond the common impulses of men. It is something that comes and goes, like a light
that shines and is withdrawn, withdrawn so completely that one doubts if it has ever been....

6

I would mark with a curious interest the stray country member of the club up in town for a
night or so. My mind would be busy with speculations about him, about his home, his family,
his reading, his horizons, his innumerable fellows who didn't belong and never came up. I would
fill in the outline of him with memories of my uncle and his Staffordshire neighbours. He was
perhaps Alderman This or Councillor That down there, a great man in his ward, J. P. within
seven miles of the boundary of the borough, and a God in his home. Here he was nobody, and
very shy, and either a little too arrogant or a little too meek towards our very democratic
mannered but still livened waiters. Was he perhaps the backbone of England? He over-ate himself
lest he should appear mean, went through our Special Dinner conscientiously, drank, unless
he was teetotal, of unfamiliar wines, and did his best, in spite of the rules, to tip. Afterwards,
in a state of flushed repletion, he would have old brandy, black coffee, and a banded cigar,
or in the name of temperance omit the brandy and have rather more coffee, in the smoking-room.
I would sit and watch that stiff dignity of self-indulgence, and wonder, wonder....

An infernal clairvoyance would come to me. I would have visions of him in relation to his wife,
checking always, sometimes bullying, sometimes being ostentatiously "kind"; I would see him
glance furtively at his domestic servants upon his staircase, or stiffen his upper lip against
the reluctant, protesting business employee. We imaginative people are base enough, heaven
knows, but it is only in rare moods of bitter penetration that we pierce down to the baser
lusts, the viler shames, the everlasting lying and muddle-headed self-justification of the dull.

I would turn my eyes down the crowded room and see others of him and others. What did he think
he was up to? Did he for a moment realise that his presence under that ceramic glory of a ceiling
with me meant, if it had any rational meaning at all, that we were jointly doing something
with the nation and the empire and mankind?... How on earth could any one get hold of him,
make any noble use of him? He didn't read beyond his newspaper. He never thought, but only
followed imaginings in his heart. He never discussed. At the first hint of discussion his temper
gave way. He was, I knew, a deep, thinly-covered tank of resentments and quite irrational moral
rages. Yet withal I would have to resist an impulse to go over to him and nudge him and say
to him, "Look here! What indeed do you think we are doing with the nation and the empire and
mankind? You know--MANKIND!"

I wonder what reply I should have got.

So far as any average could be struck and so far as any backbone could be located, it seemed
to me that this silent, shy, replete, sub-angry, middle-class sentimentalist was in his endless
species and varieties and dialects the backbone of our party. So far as I could be considered
as representing anything in the House, I pretended to sit for the elements of HIM....

7

For a time I turned towards the Socialists. They at least had an air of coherent intentions.
At that time Socialism had come into politics again after a period of depression and obscurity,
with a tremendous ECLAT. There was visibly a following of Socialist members to Chris Robinson;
mysteriously uncommunicative gentlemen in soft felt hats and short coats and square-toed boots
who replied to casual advances a little surprisingly in rich North Country dialects. Members
became aware of a "seagreen incorruptible," as Colonel Marlow put it to me, speaking on the
Address, a slender twisted figure supporting itself on a stick and speaking with a fire that
was altogether revolutionary. This was Philip Snowden, the member for Blackburn. They had come
in nearly forty strong altogether, and with an air of presently meaning to come in much stronger.
They were only one aspect of what seemed at that time a big national movement. Socialist societies,
we gathered, were springing up all over the country, and every one was inquiring about Socialism
and discussing Socialism. It had taken the Universities with particular force, and any youngster
with the slightest intellectual pretension was either actively for or brilliantly against.
For a time our Young Liberal group was ostentatiously sympathetic....

When I think of the Socialists there comes a vivid memory of certain evening gatherings at
our house....

These gatherings had been organised by Margaret as the outcome of a discussion at the Baileys'.
Altiora had been very emphatic and uncharitable upon the futility of the Socialist movement.
It seemed that even the leaders fought shy of dinner-parties.

"They never meet each other," said Altiora, "much less people on the other side. How can they
begin to understand politics until they do that?"

"Most of them have totally unpresentable wives," said Altiora, "totally!" and quoted instances,
"and they WILL bring them. Or they won't come! Some of the poor creatures have scarcely learnt
their table manners. They just make holes in the talk...."

I thought there was a great deal of truth beneath Altiora's outburst. The presentation of the
Socialist case seemed very greatly crippled by the want of a common intimacy in its leaders;
the want of intimacy didn't at first appear to be more than an accident, and our talk led to
Margaret's attempt to get acquaintance and easy intercourse afoot among them and between them
and the Young Liberals of our group. She gave a series of weekly dinners, planned, I think,
a little too accurately upon Altiora's model, and after each we had as catholic a reception
as we could contrive.

Our receptions were indeed, I should think, about as catholic as receptions could be. Margaret
found herself with a weekly houseful of insoluble problems in intercourse. One did one's best,
but one got a nightmare feeling as the evening wore on.

It was one of the few unanimities of these parties that every one should be a little odd in
appearance, funny about the hair or the tie or the shoes or more generally, and that bursts
of violent aggression should alternate with an attitude entirely defensive. A number of our
guests had an air of waiting for a clue that never came, and stood and sat about silently,
mildly amused but not a bit surprised that we did not discover their distinctive Open-Sesames.
There was a sprinkling of manifest seers and prophetesses in shapeless garments, far too many,
I thought, for really easy social intercourse, and any conversation at any moment was liable
to become oracular. One was in a state of tension from first to last; the most innocent remark
seemed capable of exploding resentment, and replies came out at the most unexpected angles.
We Young Liberals went about puzzled but polite to the gathering we had evoked. The Young Liberals'
tradition is on the whole wonderfully discreet, superfluous steam is let out far away from
home in the Balkans or Africa, and the neat, stiff figures of the Cramptons, Bunting Harblow,
and Lewis, either in extremely well-cut morning coats indicative of the House, or in what is
sometimes written of as "faultless evening dress," stood about on those evenings, they and
their very quietly and simply and expensively dressed little wives, like a datum line amidst
lakes and mountains.

I didn't at first see the connection between systematic social reorganisation and arbitrary
novelties in dietary and costume, just as I didn't realise why the most comprehensive constructive
projects should appear to be supported solely by odd and exceptional personalities. On one
of these evenings a little group of rather jolly-looking pretty young people seated themselves
for no particular reason in a large circle on the floor of my study, and engaged, so far as
I could judge, in the game of Hunt the Meaning, the intellectual equivalent of Hunt the Slipper.
It must have been that same evening I came upon an unbleached young gentleman before the oval
mirror on the landing engaged in removing the remains of an anchovy sandwich from his protruded
tongue--visible ends of cress having misled him into the belief that he was dealing with doctrinally
permissible food. It was not unusual to be given hand-bills and printed matter by our guests,
but there I had the advantage over Lewis, who was too tactful to refuse the stuff, too neatly
dressed to pocket it, and had no writing-desk available upon which he could relieve himself
in a manner flattering to the giver. So that his hands got fuller and fuller. A relentless,
compact little woman in what Margaret declared to be an extremely expensive black dress has
also printed herself on my memory; she had set her heart upon my contributing to a weekly periodical
in the lentil interest with which she was associated, and I spent much time and care in evading
her.

Mingling with the more hygienic types were a number of Anti-Puritan Socialists, bulging with
bias against temperance, and breaking out against austere methods of living all over their
faces. Their manner was packed with heartiness. They were apt to choke the approaches to the
little buffet Margaret had set up downstairs, and there engage in discussions of Determinism--it
always seemed to be Determinism--which became heartier and noisier, but never acrimonious even
in the small hours. It seemed impossible to settle about this Determinism of theirs--ever.
And there were worldly Socialists also. I particularly recall a large, active, buoyant, lady-killing
individual with an eyeglass borne upon a broad black ribbon, who swam about us one evening.
He might have been a slightly frayed actor, in his large frock-coat, his white waistcoat, and
the sort of black and white check trousers that twinkle. He had a high-pitched voice with aristocratic
intonations, and he seemed to be in a perpetual state of interrogation. "What are we all he-a
for?" he would ask only too audibly. "What are we doing he-a? What's the connection?"

What WAS the connection?

We made a special effort with our last assembly in June, 1907. We tried to get something like
a representative collection of the parliamentary leaders of Socialism, the various exponents
of Socialist thought and a number of Young Liberal thinkers into one room. Dorvil came, and
Horatio Bulch; Featherstonehaugh appeared for ten minutes and talked charmingly to Margaret
and then vanished again; there was Wilkins the novelist and Toomer and Dr. Tumpany. Chris Robinson
stood about for a time in a new comforter, and Magdeberg and Will Pipes and five or six Labour
members. And on our side we had our particular little group, Bunting Harblow, Crampton, Lewis,
all looking as broad-minded and open to conviction as they possibly could, and even occasionally
talking out from their bushes almost boldly. But the gathering as a whole refused either to
mingle or dispute, and as an experiment in intercourse the evening was a failure. Unexpected
dissociations appeared between Socialists one had supposed friendly. I could not have imagined
it was possible for half so many people to turn their backs on everybody else in such small
rooms as ours. But the unsaid things those backs expressed broke out, I remarked, with refreshed
virulence in the various organs of the various sections of the party next week.

I talked, I remember, with Dr. Tumpany, a large young man in a still larger professional frock-coat,
and with a great shock of very fair hair, who was candidate for some North Country constituency.
We discussed the political outlook, and, like so many Socialists at that time, he was full
of vague threatenings against the Liberal party. I was struck by a thing in him that I had
already observed less vividly in many others of these Socialist leaders, and which gave me
at last a clue to the whole business. He behaved exactly like a man in possession of valuable
patent rights, who wants to be dealt with. He had an air of having a corner in ideas. Then
it flashed into my head that the whole Socialist movement was an attempted corner in ideas....

8

Late that night I found myself alone with Margaret amid the debris of the gathering.

I sat before the fire, hands in pockets, and Margaret, looking white and weary, came and leant
upon the mantel.

"Oh, Lord!" said Margaret.

I agreed. Then I resumed my meditation.

"Ideas," I said, "count for more than I thought in the world."

Margaret regarded me with that neutral expression behind which she was accustomed to wait for
clues.

"When you think of the height and depth and importance and wisdom of the Socialist ideas, and
see the men who are running them," I explained.... "A big system of ideas like Socialism grows
up out of the obvious common sense of our present conditions. It's as impersonal as science.
All these men--They've given nothing to it. They're just people who have pegged out claims
upon a big intellectual No-Man's-Land--and don't feel quite sure of the law. There's a sort
of quarrelsome uneasiness.... If we professed Socialism do you think they'd welcome us? Not
a man of them! They'd feel it was burglary...."

"Yes," said Margaret, looking into the fire. "That is just what I felt about them all the evening....
Particularly Dr. Tumpany."

"We mustn't confuse Socialism with the Socialists," I said; "that's the moral of it. I suppose
if God were to find He had made a mistake in dates or something, and went back and annihilated
everybody from Owen onwards who was in any way known as a Socialist leader or teacher, Socialism
would be exactly where it is and what it is to-day--a growing realisation of constructive needs
in every man's mind, and a little corner in party politics. So, I suppose, it will always be....
But they WERE a damned lot, Margaret!"

I looked up at the little noise she made. "TWICE!" she said, smiling indulgently, "to-day!"
(Even the smile was Altiora's.)

I returned to my thoughts. They WERE a damned human lot. It was an excellent word in that connection....

But the ideas marched on, the ideas marched on, just as though men's brains were no more than
stepping-stones, just as though some great brain in which we are all little cells and corpuscles
was thinking them!...

"I don't think there is a man among them who makes me feel he is trustworthy," said Margaret;
"unless it is Featherstonehaugh."

I sat taking in this proposition.

"They'll never help us, I feel," said Margaret.

"Us?"

"The Liberals."

"Oh, damn the Liberals!" I said. "They'll never even help themselves."

"I don't think I could possibly get on with any of those people," said Margaret, after a pause.

She remained for a time looking down at me and, I could feel, perplexed by me, but I wanted
to go on with my thinking, and so I did not look up, and presently she stooped to my forehead
and kissed me and went rustling softly to her room.

I remained in my study for a long time with my thoughts crystallising out....

It was then, I think, that I first apprehended clearly how that opposition to which I have
already alluded of the immediate life and the mental hinterland of a man, can be applied to
public and social affairs. The ideas go on--and no person or party succeeds in embodying them.
The reality of human progress never comes to the surface, it is a power in the deeps, an undertow.
It goes on in silence while men think, in studies where they write self-forgetfully, in laboratories
under the urgency of an impersonal curiosity, in the rare illumination of honest talk, in moments
of emotional insight, in thoughtful reading, but not in everyday affairs. Everyday affairs
and whatever is made an everyday affair, are transactions of the ostensible self, the being
of habits, interests, usage. Temper, vanity, hasty reaction to imitation, personal feeling,
are their substance. No man can abolish his immediate self and specialise in the depths; if
he attempt that, he simply turns himself into something a little less than the common man.
He may have an immense hinterland, but that does not absolve him from a frontage. That is the
essential error of the specialist philosopher, the specialist teacher, the specialist publicist.
They repudiate frontage; claim to be pure hinterland. That is what bothered me about Codger,
about those various schoolmasters who had prepared me for life, about the Baileys and their
dream of an official ruling class. These are attempts to live deep-side shallow, inside out.
They produce merely a new pettiness. To understand Socialism, again, is to gain a new breadth
of outlook; to join a Socialist organisation is to join a narrow cult which is not even tolerably
serviceable in presenting or spreading the ideas for which it stands....

I perceived I had got something quite fundamental here. It had taken me some years to realise
the true relation of the great constructive ideas that swayed me not only to political parties,
but to myself. I had been disposed to identify the formulae of some one party with social construction,
and to regard the other as necessarily anti-constructive, just as I had been inclined to follow
the Baileys in the self-righteousness of supposing myself to be wholly constructive. But I
saw now that every man of intellectual freedom and vigour is necessarily constructive-minded
nowadays, and that no man is disinterestedly so. Each one of us repeats in himself the conflict
of the race between the splendour of its possibilities and its immediate associations. We may
be shaping immortal things, but we must sleep and answer the dinner gong, and have our salt
of flattery and self-approval. In politics a man counts not for what he is in moments of imaginative
expansion, but for his common workaday, selfish self; and political parties are held together
not by a community of ultimate aims, but by the stabler bond of an accustomed life. Everybody
almost is for progress in general, and nearly everybody is opposed to any change, except in
so far as gross increments are change, in his particular method of living and behaviour. The
instincts, the persons, the parties, and vanities sway and struggle. The ideas and understandings
march on and achieve themselves for all--in spite of every one....

The methods and traditions of British politics maintain the form of two great parties, with
rider groups seeking to gain specific ends in the event of a small Government majority. These
two main parties are more or less heterogeneous in composition. Each, however, has certain
necessary characteristics. The Conservative Party has always stood quite definitely for the
established propertied interests. The land-owner, the big lawyer, the Established Church, and
latterly the huge private monopoly of the liquor trade which has been created by temperance
legislation, are the essential Conservatives. Interwoven now with the native wealthy are the
families of the great international usurers, and a vast miscellaneous mass of financial enterprise.
Outside the range of resistance implied by these interests, the Conservative Party has always
shown itself just as constructive and collectivist as any other party. The great landowners
have been as well-disposed towards the endowment of higher education, and as willing to co-operate
with the Church in protective and mildly educational legislation for children and the working
class, as any political section. The financiers, too, are adventurous-spirited and eager for
mechanical progress and technical efficiency. They are prepared to spend public money upon
research, upon ports and harbours and public communications, upon sanitation and hygienic organisation.
A certain rude benevolence of public intention is equally characteristic of the liquor trade.
Provided his comfort leads to no excesses of temperance, the liquor trade is quite eager to
see the common man prosperous, happy, and with money to spend in a bar. All sections of the
party are aggressively patriotic and favourably inclined to the idea of an upstanding, well-fed,
and well-exercised population in uniform. Of course there are reactionary landowners and old-fashioned
country clergy, full of localised self-importance, jealous even of the cottager who can read,
but they have neither the power nor the ability to retard the constructive forces in the party
as a whole. On the other hand, when matters point to any definitely confiscatory proposal,
to the public ownership and collective control of land, for example, or state mining and manufactures,
or the nationalisation of the so-called public-house or extended municipal enterprise, or even
to an increase of the taxation of property, then the Conservative Party presents a nearly adamantine
bar. It does not stand for, it IS, the existing arrangement in these affairs.

Even more definitely a class party is the Labour Party, whose immediate interest is to raise
wages, shorten hours of labor, increase employment, and make better terms for the working-man
tenant and working-man purchaser. Its leaders are no doubt constructive minded, but the mass
of the following is naturally suspicious of education and discipline, hostile to the higher
education, and--except for an obvious antagonism to employers and property owners--almost destitute
of ideas. What else can it be? It stands for the expropriated multitude, whose whole situation
and difficulty arise from its individual lack of initiative and organising power. It favours
the nationalisation of land and capital with no sense of the difficulties involved in the process;
but, on the other hand, the equally reasonable socialisation of individuals which is implied
by military service is steadily and quite naturally and quite illogically opposed by it. It
is only in recent years that Labour has emerged as a separate party from the huge hospitable
caravanserai of Liberalism, and there is still a very marked tendency to step back again into
that multitudinous assemblage.

For multitudinousness has always been the Liberal characteristic. Liberalism never has been
nor ever can be anything but a diversified crowd. Liberalism has to voice everything that is
left out by these other parties. It is the party against the predominating interests. It is
at once the party of the failing and of the untried; it is the party of decadence and hope.
From its nature it must be a vague and planless association in comparison with its antagonist,
neither so constructive on the one hand, nor on the other so competent to hinder the inevitable
constructions of the civilised state. Essentially it is the party of criticism, the "Anti"
party. It is a system of hostilities and objections that somehow achieves at times an elusive
common soul. It is a gathering together of all the smaller interests which find themselves
at a disadvantage against the big established classes, the leasehold tenant as against the
landowner, the retail tradesman as against the merchant and the moneylender, the Nonconformist
as against the Churchman, the small employer as against the demoralising hospitable publican,
the man without introductions and broad connections against the man who has these things. It
is the party of the many small men against the fewer prevailing men. It has no more essential
reason for loving the Collectivist state than the Conservatives; the small dealer is doomed
to absorption in that just as much as the large owner; but it resorts to the state against
its antagonists as in the middle ages common men pitted themselves against the barons by siding
with the king. The Liberal Party is the party against "class privilege" because it represents
no class advantages, but it is also the party that is on the whole most set against Collective
control because it represents no established responsibility. It is constructive only so far
as its antagonism to the great owner is more powerful than its jealousy of the state. It organises
only because organisation is forced upon it by the organisation of its adversaries. It lapses
in and out of alliance with Labour as it sways between hostility to wealth and hostility to
public expenditure....

Every modern European state will have in some form or other these three parties: the resistent,
militant, authoritative, dull, and unsympathetic party of establishment and success, the rich
party; the confused, sentimental, spasmodic, numerous party of the small, struggling, various,
undisciplined men, the poor man's party; and a third party sometimes detaching itself from
the second and sometimes reuniting with it, the party of the altogether expropriated masses,
the proletarians, Labour. Change Conservative and Liberal to Republican and Democrat, for example,
and you have the conditions in the United States. The Crown or a dethroned dynasty, the Established
Church or a dispossessed church, nationalist secessions, the personalities of party leaders,
may break up, complicate, and confuse the self-expression of these three necessary divisions
in the modern social drama, the analyst will make them out none the less for that....

And then I came back as if I came back to a refrain;--the ideas go on--as though we are all
no more than little cells and corpuscles in some great brain beyond our understanding....

So it was I sat and thought my problem out.... I still remember my satisfaction at seeing things
plainly at last. It was like clouds dispersing to show the sky. Constructive ideas, of course,
couldn't hold a party together alone, "interests and habits, not ideas," I had that now, and
so the great constructive scheme of Socialism, invading and inspiring all parties, was necessarily
claimed only by this collection of odds and ends, this residuum of disconnected and exceptional
people. This was true not only of the Socialist idea, but of the scientific idea, the idea
of veracity--of human confidence in humanity--of all that mattered in human life outside the
life of individuals.... The only real party that would ever profess Socialism was the Labour
Party, and that in the entirely one-sided form of an irresponsible and non-constructive attack
on property. Socialism in that mutilated form, the teeth and claws without the eyes and brain,
I wanted as little as I wanted anything in the world.

Perfectly clear it was, perfectly clear, and why hadn't I seen it before?... I looked at my
watch, and it was half-past two.

I yawned, stretched, got up and went to bed.

9

My ideas about statecraft have passed through three main phases to the final convictions that
remain. There was the first immediacy of my dream of ports and harbours and cities, railways,
roads, and administered territories--the vision I had seen in the haze from that little church
above Locarno. Slowly that had passed into a more elaborate legislative constructiveness, which
had led to my uneasy association with the Baileys and the professedly constructive Young Liberals.
To get that ordered life I had realised the need of organisation, knowledge, expertness, a
wide movement of co-ordinated methods. On the individual side I thought that a life of urgent
industry, temperance, and close attention was indicated by my perception of these ends. I married
Margaret and set to work. But something in my mind refused from the outset to accept these
determinations as final. There was always a doubt lurking below, always a faint resentment,
a protesting criticism, a feeling of vitally important omissions.

I arrived at last at the clear realisation that my political associates, and I in my association
with them, were oddly narrow, priggish, and unreal, that the Socialists with whom we were attempting
co-operation were preposterously irrelevant to their own theories, that my political life didn't
in some way comprehend more than itself, that rather perplexingly I was missing the thing I
was seeking. Britten's footnotes to Altiora's self-assertions, her fits of energetic planning,
her quarrels and rallies and vanities, his illuminating attacks on Cramptonism and the heavy-spirited
triviality of such Liberalism as the Children's Charter, served to point my way to my present
conclusions. I had been trying to deal all along with human progress as something immediate
in life, something to be immediately attacked by political parties and groups pointing primarily
to that end. I now began to see that just as in my own being there was the rather shallow,
rather vulgar, self-seeking careerist, who wore an admirable silk hat and bustled self-consciously
through the lobby, and a much greater and indefinitely growing unpublished personality behind
him--my hinterland, I have called it--so in human affairs generally the permanent reality is
also a hinterland, which is never really immediate, which draws continually upon human experience
and influences human action more and more, but which is itself never the actual player upon
the stage. It is the unseen dramatist who never takes a call. Now it was just through the fact
that our group about the Baileys didn't understand this, that with a sort of frantic energy
they were trying to develop that sham expert officialdom of theirs to plan, regulate, and direct
the affairs of humanity, that the perplexing note of silliness and shallowness that I had always
felt and felt now most acutely under Britten's gibes, came in. They were neglecting human life
altogether in social organisation.

In the development of intellectual modesty lies the growth of statesmanship. He ceases to build
on the sands, and sets himself to gather foundations. I wanted freedom of speech and suggestion,
vigour of thought, and the cultivation of that impulse of veracity that lurks more or less
discouraged in every man. With that I felt there must go an emotion. I hit upon a phrase that
became at last something of a refrain in my speech and writings, to convey the spirit that
I felt was at the very heart of real human progress--love and fine thinking.

(I suppose that nowadays no newspaper in England gets through a week without the repetition
of that phrase.)

My convictions crystallised more and more definitely upon this. The more of love and fine thinking
the better for men, I said; the less, the worse. And upon this fresh basis I set myself to
examine what I as a politician might do. I perceived I was at last finding an adequate expression
for all that was in me, for those forces that had rebelled at the crude presentations of Bromstead,
at the secrecies and suppressions of my youth, at the dull unrealities of City Merchants, at
the conventions and timidities of the Pinky Dinkys, at the philosophical recluse of Trinity
and the phrases and tradition-worship of my political associates. None of these things were
half alive, and I wanted life to be intensely alive and awake. I wanted thought like an edge
of steel and desire like a flame. The real work before mankind now, I realised once and for
all, is the enlargement of human expression, the release and intensification of human thought,
the vivider utilisation of experience and the invigoration of research--and whatever one does
in human affairs has or lacks value as it helps or hinders that.

With that I had got my problem clear, and the solution, so far as I was concerned, lay in finding
out the point in the ostensible life of politics at which I could most subserve these ends.
I was still against the muddles of Bromstead, but I had hunted them down now to their essential
form. The jerry-built slums, the roads that went nowhere, the tarred fences, litigious notice-boards
and barbed wire fencing, the litter and the heaps of dump, were only the outward appearances
whose ultimate realities were jerry-built conclusions, hasty purposes, aimless habits of thought,
and imbecile bars and prohibitions in the thoughts and souls of men. How are we through politics
to get at that confusion?

We want to invigorate and reinvigorate education. We want to create a sustained counter effort
to the perpetual tendency of all educational organisations towards classicalism, secondary
issues, and the evasion of life.

We want to stimulate the expression of life through art and literature, and its exploration
through research.

We want to make the best and finest thought accessible to every one, and more particularly
to create and sustain an enormous free criticism, without which art, literature, and research
alike degenerate into tradition or imposture.

Then all the other problems which are now so insoluble, destitution, disease, the difficulty
of maintaining international peace, the scarcely faced possibility of making life generally
and continually beautiful, become--EASY....

It was clear to me that the most vital activities in which I could engage would be those which
most directly affected the Church, public habits of thought, education, organised research,
literature, and the channels of general discussion. I had to ask myself how my position as
Liberal member for Kinghamstead squared with and conduced to this essential work.

CHAPTER THE SECOND ~~ SEEKING ASSOCIATES

1

I have told of my gradual abandonment of the pretensions and habits of party Liberalism. In
a sense I was moving towards aristocracy. Regarding the development of the social and individual
mental hinterland as the essential thing in human progress, I passed on very naturally to the
practical assumption that we wanted what I may call "hinterlanders." Of course I do not mean
by aristocracy the changing unorganised medley of rich people and privileged people who dominate
the civilised world of to-day, but as opposed to this, a possibility of co-ordinating the will
of the finer individuals, by habit and literature, into a broad common aim. We must have an
aristocracy--not of privilege, but of understanding and purpose--or mankind will fail. I find
this dawning more and more clearly when I look through my various writings of the years between
1903 and 1910. I was already emerging to plain statements in 1908.

I reasoned after this fashion. The line of human improvement and the expansion of human life
lies in the direction of education and finer initiatives. If humanity cannot develop an education
far beyond anything that is now provided, if it cannot collectively invent devices and solve
problems on a much richer, broader scale than it does at the present time, it cannot hope to
achieve any very much finer order or any more general happiness than it now enjoys. We must
believe, therefore, that it CAN develop such a training and education, or we must abandon secular
constructive hope. And here my peculiar difficulty as against crude democracy comes in. If
humanity at large is capable of that high education and those creative freedoms our hope demands,
much more must its better and more vigorous types be so capable. And if those who have power
and leisure now, and freedom to respond to imaginative appeals, cannot be won to the idea of
collective self-development, then the whole of humanity cannot be won to that. From that one
passes to what has become my general conception in politics, the conception of the constructive
imagination working upon the vast complex of powerful people, clever people, enterprising people,
influential people, amidst whom power is diffused to-day, to produce that self-conscious, highly
selective, open-minded, devoted aristocratic culture, which seems to me to be the necessary
next phase in the development of human affairs. I see human progress, not as the spontaneous
product of crowds of raw minds swayed by elementary needs, but as a natural but elaborate result
of intricate human interdependencies, of human energy and curiosity liberated and acting at
leisure, of human passions and motives, modified and redirected by literature and art....

But now the reader will understand how it came about that, disappointed by the essential littleness
of Liberalism, and disillusioned about the representative quality of the professed Socialists,
I turned my mind more and more to a scrutiny of the big people, the wealthy and influential
people, against whom Liberalism pits its forces. I was asking myself definitely whether, after
all, it was not my particular job to work through them and not against them. Was I not altogether
out of my element as an Anti-? Weren't there big bold qualities about these people that common
men lack, and the possibility of far more splendid dreams? Were they really the obstacles,
might they not be rather the vehicles of the possible new braveries of life?

2

The faults of the Imperialist movement were obvious enough. The conception of the Boer War
had been clumsy and puerile, the costly errors of that struggle appalling, and the subsequent
campaign of Mr. Chamberlain for Tariff Reform seemed calculated to combine the financial adventurers
of the Empire in one vast conspiracy against the consumer. The cant of Imperialism was easy
to learn and use; it was speedily adopted by all sorts of base enterprises and turned to all
sorts of base ends. But a big child is permitted big mischief, and my mind was now continually
returning to the persuasion that after all in some development of the idea of Imperial patriotism
might be found that wide, rough, politically acceptable expression of a constructive dream
capable of sustaining a great educational and philosophical movement such as no formula of
Liberalism supplied. The fact that it readily took vulgar forms only witnessed to its strong
popular appeal. Mixed in with the noisiness and humbug of the movement there appeared a real
regard for social efficiency, a real spirit of animation and enterprise. There suddenly appeared
in my world--I saw them first, I think, in 1908--a new sort of little boy, a most agreeable
development of the slouching, cunning, cigarette-smoking, town-bred youngster, a small boy
in a khaki hat, and with bare knees and athletic bearing, earnestly engaged in wholesome and
invigorating games up to and occasionally a little beyond his strength--the Boy Scout. I liked
the Boy Scout, and I find it difficult to express how much it mattered to me, with my growing
bias in favour of deliberate national training, that Liberalism hadn't been able to produce,
and had indeed never attempted to produce, anything of this kind.

3

In those days there existed a dining club called--there was some lost allusion to the exorcism
of party feeling in its title--the Pentagram Circle. It included Bailey and Dayton and myself,
Sir Herbert Thorns, Lord Charles Kindling, Minns the poet, Gerbault the big railway man, Lord
Gane, fresh from the settlement of Framboya, and Rumbold, who later became Home Secretary and
left us. We were men of all parties and very various experiences, and our object was to discuss
the welfare of the Empire in a disinterested spirit. We dined monthly at the Mermaid in Westminster,
and for a couple of years we kept up an average attendance of ten out of fourteen. The dinner-time
was given up to desultory conversation, and it is odd how warm and good the social atmosphere
of that little gathering became as time went on; then over the dessert, so soon as the waiters
had swept away the crumbs and ceased to fret us, one of us would open with perhaps fifteen
or twenty minutes' exposition of some specially prepared question, and after him we would deliver
ourselves in turn, each for three or four minutes. When every one present had spoken once talk
became general again, and it was rare we emerged upon Hendon Street before midnight. Sometimes,
as my house was conveniently near, a knot of men would come home with me and go on talking
and smoking in my dining-room until two or three. We had Fred Neal, that wild Irish journalist,
among us towards the end, and his stupendous flow of words materially prolonged our closing
discussions and made our continuance impossible.

I learned very much and very many things at those dinners, but more particularly did I become
familiarised with the habits of mind of such men as Neal, Crupp, Gane, and the one or two other
New Imperialists who belonged to us. They were nearly all like Bailey Oxford men, though mostly
of a younger generation, and they were all mysteriously and inexplicably advocates of Tariff
Reform, as if it were the principal instead of at best a secondary aspect of constructive policy.
They seemed obsessed by the idea that streams of trade could be diverted violently so as to
link the parts of the Empire by common interests, and they were persuaded, I still think mistakenly,
that Tariff Reform would have an immense popular appeal. They were also very keen on military
organisation, and with a curious little martinet twist in their minds that boded ill for that
side of public liberty. So much against them. But they were disposed to spend money much more
generously on education and research of all sorts than our formless host of Liberals seemed
likely to do; and they were altogether more accessible than the Young Liberals to bold, constructive
ideas affecting the universities and upper classes. The Liberals are abjectly afraid of the
universities. I found myself constantly falling into line with these men in our discussions,
and more and more hostile to Dayton's sentimentalising evasions of definite schemes and Minns'
trust in such things as the "Spirit of our People" and the "General Trend of Progress." It
wasn't that I thought them very much righter than their opponents; I believe all definite party
"sides" at any time are bound to be about equally right and equally lop-sided; but that I thought
I could get more out of them and what was more important to me, more out of myself if I co-operated
with them. By 1908 I had already arrived at a point where I could be definitely considering
a transfer of my political allegiance.

These abstract questions are inseparably interwoven with my memory of a shining long white
table, and our hock bottles and burgundy bottles, and bottles of Perrier and St. Galmier and
the disturbed central trophy of dessert, and scattered glasses and nut-shells and cigarette-ends
and menu-cards used for memoranda. I see old Dayton sitting back and cocking his eye to the
ceiling in a way he had while he threw warmth into the ancient platitudes of Liberalism, and
Minns leaning forward, and a little like a cockatoo with a taste for confidences, telling us
in a hushed voice of his faith in the Destiny of Mankind. Thorns lounges, rolling his round
face and round eyes from speaker to speaker and sounding the visible depths of misery whenever
Neal begins. Gerbault and Gane were given to conversation in undertones, and Bailey pursued
mysterious purposes in lisping whispers. It was Crupp attracted me most. He had, as people
say, his eye on me from the beginning. He used to speak at me, and drifted into a custom of
coming home with me very regularly for an after-talk.

He opened his heart to me.

"Neither of us," he said, "are dukes, and neither of us are horny-handed sons of toil. We want
to get hold of the handles, and to do that, one must go where the power is, and give it just
as constructive a twist as we can. That's MY Toryism."

"Is it Kindling's--or Gerbault's?"

"No. But theirs is soft, and mine's hard. Mine will wear theirs out. You and I and Bailey are
all after the same thing, and why aren't we working together?"

"Are you a Confederate?" I asked suddenly.

"That's a secret nobody tells," he said.

"What are the Confederates after?"

"Making aristocracy work, I suppose. Just as, I gather, you want to do."...

The Confederates were being heard of at that time. They were at once attractive and repellent
to me, an odd secret society whose membership nobody knew, pledged, it was said, to impose
Tariff Reform and an ample constructive policy upon the Conservatives. In the press, at any
rate, they had an air of deliberately organised power. I have no doubt the rumour of them greatly
influenced my ideas....

In the end I made some very rapid decisions, but for nearly two years I was hesitating. Hesitations
were inevitable in such a matter. I was not dealing with any simple question of principle,
but with elusive and fluctuating estimates of the trend of diverse forces and of the nature
of my own powers. All through that period I was asking over and over again: how far are these
Confederates mere dreamers? How far--and this was more vital--are they rendering lip-service
to social organisations? Is it true they desire war because it confirms the ascendency of their
class? How far can Conservatism be induced to plan and construct before it resists the thrust
towards change. Is it really in bulk anything more than a mass of prejudice and conceit, cynical
indulgence, and a hard suspicion of and hostility to the expropriated classes in the community?

That is a research which yields no statistics, an enquiry like asking what is the ruling colour
of a chameleon. The shadowy answer varied with my health, varied with my mood and the conduct
of the people I was watching. How fine can people be? How generous?--not incidentally, but
all round? How far can you educate sons beyond the outlook of their fathers, and how far lift
a rich, proud, self-indulgent class above the protests of its business agents and solicitors
and its own habits and vanity? Is chivalry in a class possible?--was it ever, indeed, or will
it ever indeed be possible? Is the progress that seems attainable in certain directions worth
the retrogression that may be its price?

4

It was to the Pentagram Circle that I first broached the new conceptions that were developing
in my mind. I count the evening of my paper the beginning of the movement that created the
BLUE WEEKLY and our wing of the present New Tory party. I do that without any excessive egotism,
because my essay was no solitary man's production; it was my reaction to forces that had come
to me very large through my fellow-members; its quick reception by them showed that I was,
so to speak, merely the first of the chestnuts to pop. The atmospheric quality of the evening
stands out very vividly in my memory. The night, I remember, was warmly foggy when after midnight
we went to finish our talk at my house.

We had recently changed the rules of the club to admit visitors, and so it happened that I
had brought Britten, and Crupp introduced Arnold Shoesmith, my former schoolfellow at City
Merchants, and now the wealthy successor of his father and elder brother. I remember his heavy,
inexpressively handsome face lighting to his rare smile at the sight of me, and how little
I dreamt of the tragic entanglement that was destined to involve us both. Gane was present,
and Esmeer, a newly-added member, but I think Bailey was absent. Either he was absent, or he
said something so entirely characteristic and undistinguished that it has left no impression
on my mind.

I had broken a little from the traditions of the club even in my title, which was deliberately
a challenge to the liberal idea: it was, "The World Exists for Exceptional People." It is not
the title I should choose now--for since that time I have got my phrase of "mental hinterlander"
into journalistic use. I should say now, "The World Exists for Mental Hinterland."

The notes I made of that opening have long since vanished with a thousand other papers, but
some odd chance has preserved and brought with me to Italy the menu for the evening; its back
black with the scrawled notes I made of the discussion for my reply. I found it the other day
among some letters from Margaret and a copy of the 1909 Report of the Poor Law Commission,
also rich with pencilled marginalia.

My opening was a criticism of the democratic idea and method, upon lines such as I have already
sufficiently indicated in the preceding sections. I remember how old Dayton fretted in his
chair, and tushed and pished at that, even as I gave it, and afterwards we were treated to
one of his platitudinous harangues, he sitting back in his chair with that small obstinate
eye of his fixed on the ceiling, and a sort of cadaverous glow upon his face, repeating--quite
regardless of all my reasoning and all that had been said by others in the debate--the sacred
empty phrases that were his soul's refuge from reality. "You may think it very clever," he
said with a nod of his head to mark his sense of his point, "not to Trust in the People. I
do." And so on. Nothing in his life or work had ever shown that he did trust in the people,
but that was beside the mark. He was the party Liberal, and these were the party incantations.

After my preliminary attack on vague democracy I went on to show that all human life was virtually
aristocratic; people must either recognise aristocracy in general or else follow leaders, which
is aristocracy in particular, and so I came to my point that the reality of human progress
lay necessarily through the establishment of freedoms for the human best and a collective receptivity
and understanding. There was a disgusted grunt from Dayton, "Superman rubbish--Nietzsche. Shaw!
Ugh!" I sailed on over him to my next propositions. The prime essential in a progressive civilisation
was the establishment of a more effective selective process for the privilege of higher education,
and the very highest educational opportunity for the educable. We were too apt to patronise
scholarship winners, as though a scholarship was toffee given as a reward for virtue. It wasn't
any reward at all; it was an invitation to capacity. We had no more right to drag in virtue,
or any merit but quality, than we had to involve it in a search for the tallest man. We didn't
want a mere process for the selection of good as distinguished from gifted and able boys--"No,
you DON'T," from Dayton--we wanted all the brilliant stuff in the world concentrated upon the
development of the world. Just to exasperate Dayton further I put in a plea for gifts as against
character in educational, artistic, and legislative work. "Good teaching," I said, "is better
than good conduct. We are becoming idiotic about character."

Dayton was too moved to speak. He slewed round upon me an eye of agonised aversion.

I expatiated on the small proportion of the available ability that is really serving humanity
to-day. "I suppose to-day all the thought, all the art, all the increments of knowledge that
matter, are supplied so far as the English-speaking community is concerned by--how many?--by
three or four thousand individuals. ('Less,' said Thorns.) To be more precise, by the mental
hinterlands of three or four thousand individuals. We who know some of the band entertain no
illusions as to their innate rarity. We know that they are just the few out of many, the few
who got in our world of chance and confusion, the timely stimulus, the apt suggestion at the
fortunate moment, the needed training, the leisure. The rest are lost in the crowd, fail through
the defects of their qualities, become commonplace workmen and second-rate professional men,
marry commonplace wives, are as much waste as the driftage of superfluous pollen in a pine
forest is waste."

"Decent honest lives!" said Dayton to his bread-crumbs, with his chin in his necktie. "WASTE!"

"And the people who do get what we call opportunity get it usually in extremely limited and
cramping forms. No man lives a life of intellectual productivity alone; he needs not only material
and opportunity, but helpers, resonators. Round and about what I might call the REAL men, you
want the sympathetic cooperators, who help by understanding. It isn't that our--SALT of three
or four thousand is needlessly rare; it is sustained by far too small and undifferentiated
a public. Most of the good men we know are not really doing the very best work of their gifts;
nearly all are a little adapted, most are shockingly adapted to some second-best use. Now,
I take it, this is the very centre and origin of the muddle, futility, and unhappiness that
distresses us; it's the cardinal problem of the state--to discover, develop, and use the exceptional
gifts of men. And I see that best done--I drift more and more away from the common stuff of
legislative and administrative activity--by a quite revolutionary development of the educational
machinery, but by a still more unprecedented attempt to keep science going, to keep literature
going, and to keep what is the necessary spur of all science and literature, an intelligent
and appreciative criticism going. You know none of these things have ever been kept going hitherto;
they've come unexpectedly and inexplicably."

"Hear, hear!" from Dayton, cough, nodding of the head, and an expression of mystical profundity.

"They've lit up a civilisation and vanished, to give place to darkness again. Now the modern
state doesn't mean to go back to darkness again--and so it's got to keep its light burning."
I went on to attack the present organisation of our schools and universities, which seemed
elaborately designed to turn the well-behaved, uncritical, and uncreative men of each generation
into the authoritative leaders of the next, and I suggested remedies upon lines that I have
already indicated in the earlier chapters of this story....

So far I had the substance of the club with me, but I opened new ground and set Crupp agog
by confessing my doubt from which party or combination of groups these developments of science
and literature and educational organisation could most reasonably be expected. I looked up
to find Crupp's dark little eye intent upon me.

There I left it to them.

We had an astonishingly good discussion; Neal burst once, but we emerged from his flood after
a time, and Dayton had his interlude. The rest was all close, keen examination of my problem.

I see Crupp now with his arm bent before him on the table in a way we had, as though it was
jointed throughout its length like a lobster's antenna, his plump, short-fingered hand crushing
up a walnut shell into smaller and smaller fragments. "Remington," he said, "has given us the
data for a movement, a really possible movement. It's not only possible, but necessary--urgently
necessary, I think, if the Empire is to go on."

"We're working altogether too much at the social basement in education and training," said
Gane. "Remington is right about our neglect of the higher levels."

Britten made a good contribution with an analysis of what he called the spirit of a country
and what made it. "The modern community needs its serious men to be artistic and its artists
to be taken seriously," I remember his saying. "The day has gone by for either dull responsibility
or merely witty art."

I remember very vividly how Shoesmith harped on an idea I had thrown out of using some sort
of review or weekly to express and elaborate these conceptions of a new, severer, aristocratic
culture.

"It would have to be done amazingly well," said Britten, and my mind went back to my school
days and that ancient enterprise of ours, and how Cossington had rushed it. Well, Cossington
had too many papers nowadays to interfere with us, and we perhaps had learnt some defensive
devices.

"But this thing has to be linked to some political party," said Crupp, with his eye on me.
"You can't get away from that. The Liberals," he added, "have never done anything for research
or literature."

"They had a Royal Commission on the Dramatic Censorship," said Thorns, with a note of minute
fairness. "It shows what they were made of," he added.

"It's what I've told Remington again and again," said Crupp, "we've got to pick up the tradition
of aristocracy, reorganise it, and make it work. But he's certainly suggested a method."

"There won't be much aristocracy to pick up," said Dayton, darkly to the ceiling, "if the House
of Lords throws out the Budget."

"All the more reason for picking it up," said Neal. "For we can't do without it."

"Will they go to the bad, or will they rise from the ashes, aristocrats indeed--if the Liberals
come in overwhelmingly?" said Britten.

"It's we who might decide that," said Crupp, insidiously.

"I agree," said Gane.

"No one can tell," said Thorns. "I doubt if they will get beaten."

It was an odd, fragmentary discussion that night. We were all with ideas in our minds at once
fine and imperfect. We threw out suggestions that showed themselves at once far inadequate,
and we tried to qualify them by minor self-contradictions. Britten, I think, got more said
than any one. "You all seem to think you want to organise people, particular groups and classes
of individuals," he insisted. "It isn't that. That's the standing error of politicians. You
want to organise a culture. Civilisation isn't a matter of concrete groupings; it's a matter
of prevailing ideas. The problem is how to make bold, clear ideas prevail. The question for
Remington and us is just what groups of people will most help this culture forward."

"Yes, but how are the Lords going to behave?" said Crupp. "You yourself were asking that a
little while ago."

"If they win or if they lose," Gane maintained, "there will be a movement to reorganise aristocracy--Reform
of the House of Lords, they'll call the political form of it."

"Bailey thinks that," said some one.

"The labour people want abolition," said some one. "Let 'em," said Thorns.

He became audible, sketching a possibility of action.

"Suppose all of us were able to work together. It's just one of those indeterminate, confused,
eventful times ahead when a steady jet of ideas might produce enormous results."

"Leave me out of it," said Dayton, "IF you please."

"We should," said Thorns under his breath.

I took up Crupp's initiative, I remember, and expanded it.

"I believe we could do--extensive things," I insisted.

"Revivals and revisions of Toryism have been tried so often," said Thorns, "from the Young
England movement onward."

"Not one but has produced its enduring effects," I said. "It's the peculiarity of English conservatism
that it's persistently progressive and rejuvenescent."

I think it must have been about that point that Dayton fled our presence, after some clumsy
sentence that I decided upon reflection was intended to remind me of my duty to my party.

Then I remember Thorns firing doubts at me obliquely across the table. "You can't run a country
through its spoilt children," he said. "What you call aristocrats are really spoilt children.
They've had too much of everything, except bracing experience."

"Children can always be educated," said Crupp.

"I said SPOILT children," said Thorns.

"Look here, Thorns!" said I. "If this Budget row leads to a storm, and these big people get
their power clipped, what's going to happen? Have you thought of that? When they go out lock,
stock, and barrel, who comes in?"

"Nature abhors a Vacuum," said Crupp, supporting me.

"Bailey's trained officials," suggested Gane.

"Quacks with a certificate of approval from Altiora," said Thorns. "I admit the horrors of
the alternative. There'd be a massacre in three years."

"One may go on trying possibilities for ever," I said. "One thing emerges. Whatever accidents
happen, our civilisation needs, and almost consciously needs, a culture of fine creative minds,
and all the necessary tolerances, opennesses, considerations, that march with that. For my
own part, I think that is the Most Vital Thing. Build your ship of state as you will; get your
men as you will; I concentrate on what is clearly the affair of my sort of man,--I want to
ensure the quality of the quarter deck."

"Hear, hear!" said Shoesmith, suddenly--his first remark for a long time. "A first-rate figure,"
said Shoesmith, gripping it.

"Our danger is in missing that," I went on. "Muddle isn't ended by transferring power from
the muddle-headed few to the muddle-headed many, and then cheating the many out of it again
in the interests of a bureaucracy of sham experts. But that seems the limit of the liberal
imagination. There is no real progress in a country, except a rise in the level of its free
intellectual activity. All other progress is secondary and dependant. If you take on Bailey's
dreams of efficient machinery and a sort of fanatical discipline with no free-moving brains
behind it, confused ugliness becomes rigid ugliness,--that's all. No doubt things are moving
from looseness to discipline, and from irresponsible controls to organised controls--and also
and rather contrariwise everything is becoming as people say, democratised; but all the more
need in that, for an ark in which the living element may be saved."

"Hear, hear!" said Shoesmith, faint but pursuing.

It must have been in my house afterwards that Shoesmith became noticeable. He seemed trying
to say something vague and difficult that he didn't get said at all on that occasion. "We could
do immense things with a weekly," he repeated, echoing Neal, I think. And there he left off
and became a mute expressiveness, and it was only afterwards, when I was in bed, that I saw
we had our capitalist in our hands....

We parted that night on my doorstep in a tremendous glow--but in that sort of glow one doesn't
act upon without much reconsideration, and it was some months before I made my decision to
follow up the indications of that opening talk.

5

I find my thoughts lingering about the Pentagram Circle. In my developments it played a large
part, not so much by starting new trains of thought as by confirming the practicability of
things I had already hesitatingly entertained. Discussion with these other men so prominently
involved in current affairs endorsed views that otherwise would have seemed only a little less
remote from actuality than the guardians of Plato or the labour laws of More. Among other questions
that were never very distant from our discussions, that came apt to every topic, was the true
significance of democracy, Tariff Reform as a method of international hostility, and the imminence
of war. On the first issue I can still recall little Bailey, glib and winking, explaining that
democracy was really just a dodge for getting assent to the ordinances of the expert official
by means of the polling booth. "If they don't like things," said he, "they can vote for the
opposition candidate and see what happens then--and that, you see, is why we don't want proportional
representation to let in the wild men." I opened my eyes--the lids had dropped for a moment
under the caress of those smooth sounds--to see if Bailey's artful forefinger wasn't at the
side of his predominant nose.

The international situation exercised us greatly. Our meetings were pervaded by the feeling
that all things moved towards a day of reckoning with Germany, and I was largely instrumental
in keeping up the suggestion that India was in a state of unstable equilibrium, that sooner
or later something must happen there--something very serious to our Empire. Dayton frankly
detested these topics. He was full of that old Middle Victorian persuasion that whatever is
inconvenient or disagreeable to the English mind could be annihilated by not thinking about
it. He used to sit low in his chair and look mulish. "Militarism," he would declare in a tone
of the utmost moral fervour, "is a curse. It's an unmitigated curse." Then he would cough shortly
and twitch his head back and frown, and seem astonished beyond measure that after this conclusive
statement we could still go on talking of war.

All our Imperialists were obsessed by the thought of international conflict, and their influence
revived for a time those uneasinesses that had been aroused in me for the first time by my
continental journey with Willersley and by Meredith's "One of Our Conquerors." That quite justifiable
dread of a punishment for all the slackness, mental dishonesty, presumption, mercenary respectability
and sentimentalised commercialism of the Victorian period, at the hands of the better organised,
more vigorous, and now far more highly civilised peoples of Central Europe, seemed to me to
have both a good and bad series of consequences. It seemed the only thing capable of bracing
English minds to education, sustained constructive effort and research; but on the other hand
it produced the quality of a panic, hasty preparation, impatience of thought, a wasteful and
sometimes quite futile immediacy. In 1909, for example, there was a vast clamour for eight
additional Dreadnoughts--

     "We want eight
      And we won't wait,"

but no clamour at all about our national waste of inventive talent, our mean standard of intellectual
attainment, our disingenuous criticism, and the consequent failure to distinguish men of the
quality needed to carry on the modern type of war. Almost universally we have the wrong men
in our places of responsibility and the right men in no place at all, almost universally we
have poorly qualified, hesitating, and resentful subordinates, because our criticism is worthless
and, so habitually as to be now almost unconsciously, dishonest. Germany is beating England
in every matter upon which competition is possible, because she attended sedulously to her
collective mind for sixty pregnant years, because in spite of tremendous defects she is still
far more anxious for quality in achievement than we are. I remember saying that in my paper.
From that, I remember, I went on to an image that had flashed into my mind. "The British Empire,"
I said, "is like some of those early vertebrated monsters, the Brontosaurus and the Atlantosaurus
and such-like; it sacrifices intellect to character; its backbone, that is to say,--especially
in the visceral region--is bigger than its cranium. It's no accident that things are so. We've
worked for backbone. We brag about backbone, and if the joints are anchylosed so much the better.
We're still but only half awake to our error. You can't change that suddenly."

"Turn it round and make it go backwards," interjected Thorns.

"It's trying to do that," I said, "in places."

And afterwards Crupp declared I had begotten a nightmare which haunted him of nights; he was
trying desperately and belatedly to blow a brain as one blows soap-bubbles on such a mezoroic
saurian as I had conjured up, while the clumsy monster's fate, all teeth and brains, crept
nearer and nearer....

I've grown, I think, since those days out of the urgency of that apprehension. I still think
a European war, and conceivably a very humiliating war for England, may occur at no very distant
date, but I do not think there is any such heroic quality in our governing class as will make
that war catastrophic. The prevailing spirit in English life--it is one of the essential secrets
of our imperial endurance--is one of underbred aggression in prosperity and diplomatic compromise
in moments of danger; we bully haughtily where we can and assimilate where we must. It is not
for nothing that our upper and middle-class youth is educated by teachers of the highest character,
scholars and gentlemen, men who can pretend quite honestly that Darwinism hasn't upset the
historical fall of man, that cricket is moral training, and that Socialism is an outrage upon
the teachings of Christ. A sort of dignified dexterity of evasion is the national reward. Germany,
with a larger population, a vigorous and irreconcilable proletariat, a bolder intellectual
training, a harsher spirit, can scarcely fail to drive us at last to a realisation of intolerable
strain. So we may never fight at all. The war of preparations that has been going on for thirty
years may end like a sham-fight at last in an umpire's decision. We shall proudly but very
firmly take the second place. For my own part, since I love England as much as I detest her
present lethargy of soul, I pray for a chastening war--I wouldn't mind her flag in the dirt
if only her spirit would come out of it. So I was able to shake off that earlier fear of some
final and irrevocable destruction truncating all my schemes. At the most, a European war would
be a dramatic episode in the reconstruction I had in view.

In India, too, I no longer foresee, as once I was inclined to see, disaster. The English rule
in India is surely one of the most extraordinary accidents that has ever happened in history.
We are there like a man who has fallen off a ladder on to the neck of an elephant, and doesn't
know what to do or how to get down. Until something happens he remains. Our functions in India
are absurd. We English do not own that country, do not even rule it. We make nothing happen;
at the most we prevent things happening. We suppress our own literature there. Most English
people cannot even go to this land they possess; the authorities would prevent it. If Messrs.
Perowne or Cook organised a cheap tour of Manchester operatives, it would be stopped. No one
dare bring the average English voter face to face with the reality of India, or let the Indian
native have a glimpse of the English voter. In my time I have talked to English statesmen,
Indian officials and ex-officials, viceroys, soldiers, every one who might be supposed to know
what India signifies, and I have prayed them to tell me what they thought we were up to there.
I am not writing without my book in these matters. And beyond a phrase or so about "even-handed
justice"--and look at our sedition trials!--they told me nothing. Time after time I have heard
of that apocryphal native ruler in the north-west, who, when asked what would happen if we
left India, replied that in a week his men would be in the saddle, and in six months not a
rupee nor a virgin would be left in Lower Bengal. That is always given as our conclusive justification.
But is it our business to preserve the rupees and virgins of Lower Bengal in a sort of magic
inconclusiveness? Better plunder than paralysis, better fire and sword than futility. Our flag
is spread over the peninsula, without plans, without intentions--a vast preventive. The sum
total of our policy is to arrest any discussion, any conferences that would enable the Indians
to work out a tolerable scheme of the future for themselves. But that does not arrest the resentment
of men held back from life. Consider what it must be for the educated Indian sitting at the
feast of contemporary possibilities with his mouth gagged and his hands bound behind him! The
spirit of insurrection breaks out in spite of espionage and seizures. Our conflict for inaction
develops stupendous absurdities. The other day the British Empire was taking off and examining
printed cotton stomach wraps for seditious emblems and inscriptions....

In some manner we shall have to come out of India. We have had our chance, and we have demonstrated
nothing but the appalling dulness of our national imagination. We are not good enough to do
anything with India. Codger and Flack, and Gates and Dayton, Cladingbowl in the club, and the
HOME CHURCHMAN in the home, cant about "character," worship of strenuous force and contempt
of truth; for the sake of such men and things as these, we must abandon in fact, if not in
appearance, that empty domination. Had we great schools and a powerful teaching, could we boast
great men, had we the spirit of truth and creation in our lives, then indeed it might be different.
But a race that bears a sceptre must carry gifts to justify it.

It does not follow that we shall be driven catastrophically from India. That was my earlier
mistake. We are not proud enough in our bones to be ruined by India as Spain was by her empire.
We may be able to abandon India with an air of still remaining there. It is our new method.
We train our future rulers in the public schools to have a very wholesome respect for strength,
and as soon as a power arises in India in spite of us, be it a man or a culture, or a native
state, we shall be willing to deal with it. We may or may not have a war, but our governing
class will be quick to learn when we are beaten. Then they will repeat our South African diplomacy,
and arrange for some settlement that will abandon the reality, such as it is, and preserve
the semblance of power. The conqueror DE FACTO will become the new "loyal Briton," and the
democracy at home will be invited to celebrate our recession--triumphantly. I am no believer
in the imminent dissolution of our Empire; I am less and less inclined to see in either India
or Germany the probability of an abrupt truncation of those slow intellectual and moral constructions
which are the essentials of statecraft.

6

I sit writing in this little loggia to the sound of dripping water--this morning we had rain,
and the roof of our little casa is still not dry, there are pools in the rocks under the sweet
chestnuts, and the torrent that crosses the salita is full and boastful,--and I try to recall
the order of my impressions during that watching, dubious time, before I went over to the Conservative
Party. I was trying--chaotic task--to gauge the possibilities inherent in the quality of the
British aristocracy. There comes a broad spectacular effect of wide parks, diversified by woods
and bracken valleys, and dappled with deer; of great smooth lawns shaded by ancient trees;
of big facades of sunlit buildings dominating the country side; of large fine rooms full of
handsome, easy-mannered people. As a sort of representative picture to set off against those
other pictures of Liberals and of Socialists I have given, I recall one of those huge assemblies
the Duchess of Clynes inaugurated at Stamford House. The place itself is one of the vastest
private houses in London, a huge clustering mass of white and gold saloons with polished floors
and wonderful pictures, and staircases and galleries on a Gargantuan scale. And there she sought
to gather all that was most representative of English activities, and did, in fact, in those
brilliant nocturnal crowds, get samples of nearly every section of our social and intellectual
life, with a marked predominance upon the political and social side.

I remember sitting in one of the recesses at the end of the big saloon with Mrs. Redmondson,
one of those sharp-minded, beautiful rich women one meets so often in London, who seem to have
done nothing and to be capable of everything, and we watched the crowd--uniforms and splendours
were streaming in from a State ball--and exchanged information. I told her about the politicians
and intellectuals, and she told me about the aristocrats, and we sharpened our wit on them
and counted the percentage of beautiful people among the latter, and wondered if the general
effect of tallness was or was not an illusion.

They were, we agreed, for the most part bigger than the average of people in London, and a
handsome lot, even when they were not subtly individualised. "They look so well nurtured,"
I said, "well cared for. I like their quiet, well-trained movements, their pleasant consideration
for each other."

"Kindly, good tempered, and at bottom utterly selfish," she said, "like big, rather carefully
trained, rather pampered children. What else can you expect from them?"

"They are good tempered, anyhow," I witnessed, "and that's an achievement. I don't think I
could ever be content under a bad-tempered, sentimentalism, strenuous Government. That's why
I couldn't stand the Roosevelt REGIME in America. One's chief surprise when one comes across
these big people for the first time is their admirable easiness and a real personal modesty.
I confess I admire them. Oh! I like them. I wouldn't at all mind, I believe, giving over the
country to this aristocracy--given SOMETHING--"

"Which they haven't got."

"Which they haven't got--or they'd be the finest sort of people in the world."

"That something?" she inquired.

"I don't know. I've been puzzling my wits to know. They've done all sorts of things--"

"That's Lord Wrassleton," she interrupted, "whose leg was broken--you remember?--at Spion Kop."

"It's healed very well. I like the gold lace and the white glove resting, with quite a nice
awkwardness, on the sword. When I was a little boy I wanted to wear clothes like that. And
the stars! He's got the V. C. Most of these people here have at any rate shown pluck, you know--brought
something off."

"Not quite enough," she suggested.

"I think that's it," I said. "Not quite enough--not quite hard enough," I added.

She laughed and looked at me. "You'd like to make us," she said.

"What?"

"Hard."

"I don't think you'll go on if you don't get hard."

"We shan't be so pleasant if we do."

"Well, there my puzzled wits come in again. I don't see why an aristocracy shouldn't be rather
hard trained, and yet kindly. I'm not convinced that the resources of education are exhausted.
I want to better this, because it already looks so good."

"How are we to do it?" asked Mrs. Redmondson.

"Oh, there you have me! I've been spending my time lately in trying to answer that! It makes
me quarrel with"--I held up my fingers and ticked the items off--"the public schools, the private
tutors, the army exams, the Universities, the Church, the general attitude of the country towards
science and literature--"

"We all do," said Mrs. Redmondson. "We can't begin again at the beginning," she added.

"Couldn't one," I nodded at the assembly in general, start a movement?

"There's the Confederates," she said, with a faint smile that masked a gleam of curiosity....
"You want," she said, "to say to the aristocracy, 'Be aristocrats. NOBLESSE OBLIGE.' Do you
remember what happened to the monarch who was told to 'Be a King'?"

"Well," I said, "I want an aristocracy."

"This," she said, smiling, "is the pick of them. The backwoodsmen are off the stage. These
are the brilliant ones--the smart and the blues.... They cost a lot of money, you know."

So far Mrs. Redmondson, but the picture remained full of things not stated in our speech. They
were on the whole handsome people, charitable minded, happy, and easy. They led spacious lives,
and there was something free and fearless about their bearing that I liked extremely. The women
particularly were wide-reading, fine-thinking. Mrs. Redmondson talked as fully and widely and
boldly as a man, and with those flashes of intuition, those startling, sudden delicacies of
perception few men display. I liked, too, the relations that held between women and men, their
general tolerance, their antagonism to the harsh jealousies that are the essence of the middle-class
order....

After all, if one's aim resolved itself into the development of a type and culture of men,
why shouldn't one begin at this end?

It is very easy indeed to generalise about a class or human beings, but much harder to produce
a sample. Was old Lady Forthundred, for instance, fairly a sample? I remember her as a smiling,
magnificent presence, a towering accumulation of figure and wonderful shimmering blue silk
and black lace and black hair, and small fine features and chins and chins and chins, disposed
in a big cane chair with wraps and cushions upon the great terrace of Champneys. Her eye was
blue and hard, and her accent and intonation were exactly what you would expect from a rather
commonplace dressmaker pretending to be aristocratic. I was, I am afraid, posing a little as
the intelligent but respectful inquirer from below investigating the great world, and she was
certainly posing as my informant. She affected a cynical coarseness. She developed a theory
on the governance of England, beautifully frank and simple. "Give 'um all a peerage when they
get twenty thousand a year," she maintained. "That's my remedy."

In my new role of theoretical aristocrat I felt a little abashed.

"Twenty thousand," she repeated with conviction.

It occurred to me that I was in the presence of the aristocratic theory currently working as
distinguished from my as yet unformulated intentions.

"You'll get a lot of loafers and scamps among 'um," said Lady Forthundred. "You get loafers
and scamps everywhere, but you'll get a lot of men who'll work hard to keep things together,
and that's what we're all after, isn't ut?

"It's not an ideal arrangement."

"Tell me anything better," said Lady Forthundred.

On the whole, and because she refused emphatically to believe in education, Lady Forthundred
scored.

We had been discussing Cossington's recent peerage, for Cossington, my old schoolfellow at
City Merchants', and my victor in the affair of the magazine, had clambered to an amazing wealth
up a piled heap of energetically pushed penny and halfpenny magazines, and a group of daily
newspapers. I had expected to find the great lady hostile to the new-comer, but she accepted
him, she gloried in him.

"We're a peerage," she said, "but none of us have ever had any nonsense about nobility."

She turned and smiled down on me. "We English," she said, "are a practical people. We assimilate
'um."

"Then, I suppose, they don't give trouble?"

"Then they don't give trouble."

"They learn to shoot?"

"And all that," said Lady Forthundred. "Yes. And things go on. Sometimes better than others,
but they go on--somehow. It depends very much on the sort of butler who pokes 'um about."

I suggested that it might be possible to get a secure twenty thousand a year by at least detrimental
methods--socially speaking.

"We must take the bad and the good of 'um," said Lady Forthundred, courageously....

Now, was she a sample? It happened she talked. What was there in the brains of the multitude
of her first, second, third, fourth, and fifth cousins, who didn't talk, who shone tall, and
bearing themselves finely, against a background of deft, attentive maids and valets, on every
spacious social scene? How did things look to them?

7

Side by side with Lady Forthundred, it is curious to put Evesham with his tall, bent body,
his little-featured almost elvish face, his unequal mild brown eyes, his gentle manner, his
sweet, amazing oratory. He led all these people wonderfully. He was always curious and interested
about life, wary beneath a pleasing frankness--and I tormented my brain to get to the bottom
of him. For a long time he was the most powerful man in England under the throne; he had the
Lords in his hand, and a great majority in the Commons, and the discontents and intrigues that
are the concomitants of an overwhelming party advantage broke against him as waves break against
a cliff. He foresaw so far in these matters that it seemed he scarcely troubled to foresee.
He brought political art to the last triumph of naturalness. Always for me he has been the
typical aristocrat, so typical and above the mere forms of aristocracy, that he remained a
commoner to the end of his days.

I had met him at the beginning of my career; he read some early papers of mine, and asked to
see me, and I conceived a flattered liking for him that strengthened to a very strong feeling
indeed. He seemed to me to stand alone without an equal, the greatest man in British political
life. Some men one sees through and understands, some one cannot see into or round because
they are of opaque clay, but about Evesham I had a sense of things hidden as it were by depth
and mists, because he was so big and atmospheric a personality. No other contemporary has had
that effect upon me. I've sat beside him at dinners, stayed in houses with him--he was in the
big house party at Champneys--talked to him, sounded him, watching him as I sat beside him.
I could talk to him with extraordinary freedom and a rare sense of being understood. Other
men have to be treated in a special manner; approached through their own mental dialect, flattered
by a minute regard for what they have said and done. Evesham was as widely and charitably receptive
as any man I have ever met. The common politicians beside him seemed like rows of stuffy little
rooms looking out upon the sea.

And what was he up to? What did HE think we were doing with Mankind? That I thought worth knowing.

I remember his talking on one occasion at the Hartsteins', at a dinner so tremendously floriferous
and equipped that we were almost forced into duologues, about the possible common constructive
purpose in politics.

"I feel so much," he said, "that the best people in every party converge. We don't differ at
Westminster as they do in the country towns. There's a sort of extending common policy that
goes on under every government, because on the whole it's the right thing to do, and people
know it. Things that used to be matters of opinion become matters of science--and cease to
be party questions."

He instanced education.

"Apart," said I, "from the religious question."

"Apart from the religious question."

He dropped that aspect with an easy grace, and went on with his general theme that political
conflict was the outcome of uncertainty. "Directly you get a thing established, so that people
can say, 'Now this is Right,' with the same conviction that people can say water is a combination
of oxygen and hydrogen, there's no more to be said. The thing has to be done...."

And to put against this effect of Evesham, broad and humanely tolerant, posing as the minister
of a steadily developing constructive conviction, there are other memories.

Have I not seen him in the House, persistent, persuasive, indefatigable, and by all my standards
wickedly perverse, leaning over the table with those insistent movements of his hand upon it,
or swaying forward with a grip upon his coat lapel, fighting with a diabolical skill to preserve
what are in effect religious tests, tests he must have known would outrage and humiliate and
injure the consciences of a quarter--and that perhaps the best quarter--of the youngsters who
come to the work of elementary education?

In playing for points in the game of party advantage Evesham displayed at times a quite wicked
unscrupulousness in the use of his subtle mind. I would sit on the Liberal benches and watch
him, and listen to his urbane voice, fascinated by him. Did he really care? Did anything matter
to him? And if it really mattered nothing, why did he trouble to serve the narrowness and passion
of his side? Or did he see far beyond my scope, so that this petty iniquity was justified by
greater, remoter ends of which I had no intimation?

They accused him of nepotism. His friends and family were certainly well cared for. In private
life he was full of an affectionate intimacy; he pleased by being charmed and pleased. One
might think at times there was no more of him than a clever man happily circumstanced, and
finding an interest and occupation in politics. And then came a glimpse of thought, of imagination,
like the sight of a soaring eagle through a staircase skylight. Oh, beyond question he was
great! No other contemporary politician had his quality. In no man have I perceived so sympathetically
the great contrast between warm, personal things and the white dream of statecraft. Except
that he had it seemed no hot passions, but only interests and fine affections and indolences,
he paralleled the conflict of my life. He saw and thought widely and deeply; but at times it
seemed to me his greatness stood over and behind the reality of his life, like some splendid
servant, thinking his own thoughts, who waits behind a lesser master's chair....

8

Of course, when Evesham talked of this ideal of the organised state becoming so finely true
to practicability and so clearly stated as to have the compelling conviction of physical science,
he spoke quite after my heart. Had he really embodied the attempt to realise that, I could
have done no more than follow him blindly. But neither he nor I embodied that, and there lies
the gist of my story. And when it came to a study of others among the leading Tories and Imperialists
the doubt increased, until with some at last it was possible to question whether they had any
imaginative conception of constructive statecraft at all; whether they didn't opaquely accept
the world for what it was, and set themselves single-mindedly to make a place for themselves
and cut a figure in it.

There were some very fine personalities among them: there were the great peers who had administered
Egypt, India, South Africa, Framboya--Cromer, Kitchener, Curzon, Milner, Gane, for example.
So far as that easier task of holding sword and scales had gone, they had shown the finest
qualities, but they had returned to the perplexing and exacting problem of the home country,
a little glorious, a little too simply bold. They wanted to arm and they wanted to educate,
but the habit of immediate necessity made them far more eager to arm than to educate, and their
experience of heterogeneous controls made them overrate the need for obedience in a homogeneous
country. They didn't understand raw men, ill-trained men, uncertain minds, and intelligent
women; and these are the things that matter in England.... There were also the great business
adventurers, from Cranber to Cossington (who was now Lord Paddockhurst). My mind remained unsettled,
and went up and down the scale between a belief in their far-sighted purpose and the perception
of crude vanities, coarse ambitions, vulgar competitiveness, and a mere habitual persistence
in the pursuit of gain. For a time I saw a good deal of Cossington--I wish I had kept a diary
of his talk and gestures, to mark how he could vary from day to day between a POSEUR, a smart
tradesman, and a very bold and wide-thinking political schemer. He had a vanity of sweeping
actions, motor car pounces, Napoleonic rushes, that led to violent ineffectual changes in the
policy of his papers, and a haunting pursuit by parallel columns in the liberal press that
never abashed him in the slightest degree. By an accident I plumbed the folly in him--but I
feel I never plumbed his wisdom. I remember him one day after a lunch at the Barhams' saying
suddenly, out of profound meditation over the end of a cigar, one of those sentences that seem
to light the whole interior being of a man. "Some day," he said softly, rather to himself than
to me, and A PROPOS of nothing--"some day I will raise the country."

"Why not?" I said, after a pause, and leant across him for the little silver spirit-lamp, to
light my cigarette....

Then the Tories had for another section the ancient creations, and again there were the financial
peers, men accustomed to reserve, and their big lawyers, accustomed to--well, qualified statement.
And below the giant personalities of the party were the young bloods, young, adventurous men
of the type of Lord Tarvrille, who had seen service in South Africa, who had travelled and
hunted; explorers, keen motorists, interested in aviation, active in army organisation. Good,
brown-faced stuff they were, but impervious to ideas outside the range of their activities,
more ignorant of science than their chauffeurs, and of the quality of English people than welt-politicians;
contemptuous of school and university by reason of the Gateses and Flacks and Codgers who had
come their way, witty, light-hearted, patriotic at the Kipling level, with a certain aptitude
for bullying. They varied in insensible gradations between the noble sportsmen on the one hand,
and men like Gane and the Tories of our Pentagram club on the other. You perceive how a man
might exercise his mind in the attempt to strike an average of public serviceability in this
miscellany! And mixed up with these, mixed up sometimes in the same man, was the pure reactionary,
whose predominant idea was that the village schools should confine themselves to teaching the
catechism, hat-touching and courtesying, and be given a holiday whenever beaters were in request....

I find now in my mind as a sort of counterpoise to Evesham the figure of old Lord Wardingham,
asleep in the largest armchair in the library of Stamford Court after lunch. One foot rested
on one of those things--I think they are called gout stools. He had been playing golf all the
morning and wearied a weak instep; at lunch he had sat at my table and talked in the overbearing
manner permitted to irascible important men whose insteps are painful. Among other things he
had flouted the idea that women would ever understand statecraft or be more than a nuisance
in politics, denied flatly that Hindoos were capable of anything whatever except excesses in
population, regretted he could not censor picture galleries and circulating libraries, and
declared that dissenters were people who pretended to take theology seriously with the express
purpose of upsetting the entirely satisfactory compromise of the Established Church. "No sensible
people, with anything to gain or lose, argue about religion," he said. "They mean mischief."
Having delivered his soul upon these points, and silenced the little conversation to the left
of him from which they had arisen, he became, after an appreciative encounter with a sanguinary
woodcock, more amiable, responded to some respectful initiatives of Crupp's, and related a
number of classical anecdotes of those blighting snubs, vindictive retorts and scandalous miscarriages
of justice that are so dear to the forensic mind. Now he reposed. He was breathing heavily
with his mouth a little open and his head on one side. One whisker was turned back against
the comfortable padding. His plump strong hands gripped the arms of his chair, and his frown
was a little assuaged. How tremendously fed up he looked! Honours, wealth, influence, respect,
he had them all. How scornful and hard it had made his unguarded expression!

I note without comment that it didn't even occur to me then to wake him up and ask him what
HE was up to with mankind.

9

One countervailing influence to my drift to Toryism in those days was Margaret's quite religious
faith in the Liberals. I realised that slowly and with a mild astonishment. It set me, indeed,
even then questioning my own change of opinion. We came at last incidentally, as our way was,
to an exchange of views. It was as nearly a quarrel as we had before I came over to the Conservative
side. It was at Champneys, and I think during the same visit that witnessed my exploration
of Lady Forthundred. It arose indirectly, I think, out of some comments of mine upon our fellow-guests,
but it is one of those memories of which the scene and quality remain more vivid than the things
said, a memory without any very definite beginning or end. It was afternoon, in the pause between
tea and the dressing bell, and we were in Margaret's big silver-adorned, chintz-bright room,
looking out on the trim Italian garden.... Yes, the beginning of it has escaped me altogether,
but I remember it as an odd exceptional little wrangle.

At first we seem to have split upon the moral quality of the aristocracy, and I had an odd
sense that in some way too feminine for me to understand our hostess had aggrieved her. She
said, I know, that Champneys distressed her; made her "eager for work and reality again."

"But aren't these people real?"

"They're so superficial, so extravagant!"

I said I was not shocked by their unreality. They seemed the least affected people I had ever
met. "And are they really so extravagant?" I asked, and put it to her that her dresses cost
quite as much as any other woman's in the house.

"It's not only their dresses," Margaret parried. "It's the scale and spirit of things."

I questioned that. "They're cynical," said Margaret, staring before her out of the window.

I challenged her, and she quoted the Brabants, about whom there had been an ancient scandal.
She'd heard of it from Altiora, and it was also Altiora who'd given her a horror of Lord Carnaby,
who was also with us. "You know his reputation," said Margaret. "That Normandy girl. Every
one knows about it. I shiver when I look at him. He seems--oh! like something not of OUR civilisation.
He WILL come and say little things to me."

"Offensive things?"

"No, politenesses and things. Of course his manners are--quite right. That only makes it worse,
I think. It shows he might have helped--all that happened. I do all I can to make him see I
don't like him. But none of the others make the slightest objection to him."

"Perhaps these people imagine something might be said for him."

"That's just it," said Margaret.

"Charity," I suggested.

"I don't like that sort of toleration."

I was oddly annoyed. "Like eating with publicans and sinners," I said. "No!..."

But scandals, and the contempt for rigid standards their condonation displayed, weren't more
than the sharp edge of the trouble. "It's their whole position, their selfish predominance,
their class conspiracy against the mass of people," said Margaret. "When I sit at dinner in
that splendid room, with its glitter and white reflections and candlelight, and its flowers
and its wonderful service and its candelabra of solid gold, I seem to feel the slums and the
mines and the over-crowded cottages stuffed away under the table."

I reminded Margaret that she was not altogether innocent of unearned increment.

"But aren't we doing our best to give it back?" she said.

I was moved to question her. "Do you really think," I asked, "that the Tories and peers and
rich people are to blame for social injustice as we have it to-day? Do you really see politics
as a struggle of light on the Liberal side against darkness on the Tory?"

"They MUST know," said Margaret.

I found myself questioning that. I see now that to Margaret it must have seemed the perversest
carping against manifest things, but at the time I was concentrated simply upon the elucidation
of her view and my own; I wanted to get at her conception in the sharpest, hardest lines that
were possible. It was perfectly clear that she saw Toryism as the diabolical element in affairs.
The thing showed in its hopeless untruth all the clearer for the fine, clean emotion with which
she gave it out to me. My sleeping peer in the library at Stamford Court and Evesham talking
luminously behind the Hartstein flowers embodied the devil, and my replete citizen sucking
at his cigar in the National Liberal Club, Willie Crampton discussing the care and management
of the stomach over a specially hygienic lemonade, and Dr. Tumpany in his aggressive frock-coat
pegging out a sort of copyright in Socialism, were the centre and wings of the angelic side.
It was nonsense. But how was I to put the truth to her?

"I don't see things at all as you do," I said. "I don't see things in the same way."

"Think of the poor," said Margaret, going off at a tangent.

"Think of every one," I said. "We Liberals have done more mischief through well-intentioned
benevolence than all the selfishness in the world could have done. We built up the liquor interest."

"WE!" cried Margaret. "How can you say that? It's against us."

"Naturally. But we made it a monopoly in our clumsy efforts to prevent people drinking what
they liked, because it interfered with industrial regularity--"

"Oh!" cried Margaret, stung; and I could see she thought I was talking mere wickedness.

"That's it," I said.

"But would you have people drink whatever they pleased?"

"Certainly. What right have I to dictate to other men and women?"

"But think of the children!"

"Ah! there you have the folly of modern Liberalism, its half-cunning, half-silly way of getting
at everything in a roundabout fashion. If neglecting children is an offence, and it IS an offence,
then deal with it as such, but don't go badgering and restricting people who sell something
that may possibly in some cases lead to a neglect of children. If drunkenness is an offence,
punish it, but don't punish a man for selling honest drink that perhaps after all won't make
any one drunk at all. Don't intensify the viciousness of the public-house by assuming the place
isn't fit for women and children. That's either spite or folly. Make the public-house FIT for
women and children. Make it a real public-house. If we Liberals go on as we are going, we shall
presently want to stop the sale of ink and paper because those things tempt men to forgery.
We do already threaten the privacy of the post because of betting tout's letters. The drift
of all that kind of thing is narrow, unimaginative, mischievous, stupid...."

I stopped short and walked to the window and surveyed a pretty fountain, facsimile of one in
Verona, amidst trim-cut borderings of yew. Beyond, and seen between the stems of ilex trees,
was a great blaze of yellow flowers....

"But prevention," I heard Margaret behind me, "is the essence of our work."

I turned. "There's no prevention but education. There's no antiseptics in life but love and
fine thinking. Make people fine, make fine people. Don't be afraid. These Tory leaders are
better people individually than the average; why cast them for the villains of the piece? The
real villain in the piece--in the whole human drama--is the muddle-headedness, and it matters
very little if it's virtuous-minded or wicked. I want to get at muddle-headedness. If I could
do that I could let all that you call wickedness in the world run about and do what it jolly
well pleased. It would matter about as much as a slightly neglected dog--in an otherwise well-managed
home."

My thoughts had run away with me.

"I can't understand you," said Margaret, in the profoundest distress. "I can't understand how
it is you are coming to see things like this."

10

The moods of a thinking man in politics are curiously evasive and difficult to describe. Neither
the public nor the historian will permit the statesman moods. He has from the first to assume
he has an Aim, a definite Aim, and to pretend to an absolute consistency with that. Those subtle
questionings about the very fundamentals of life which plague us all so relentlessly nowadays
are supposed to be silenced. He lifts his chin and pursues his Aim explicitly in the sight
of all men. Those who have no real political experience can scarcely imagine the immense mental
and moral strain there is between one's everyday acts and utterances on the one hand and the
"thinking-out" process on the other. It is perplexingly difficult to keep in your mind, fixed
and firm, a scheme essentially complex, to keep balancing a swaying possibility while at the
same time under jealous, hostile, and stupid observation you tread your part in the platitudinous,
quarrelsome, ill-presented march of affairs....

The most impossible of all autobiographies is an intellectual autobiography. I have thrown
together in the crudest way the elements of the problem I struggled with, but I can give no
record of the subtle details; I can tell nothing of the long vacillations between Protean values,
the talks and re-talks, the meditations, the bleak lucidities of sleepless nights....

And yet these things I have struggled with must be thought out, and, to begin with, they must
be thought out in this muddled, experimenting way. To go into a study to think about statecraft
is to turn your back on the realities you are constantly needing to feel and test and sound
if your thinking is to remain vital; to choose an aim and pursue it in despite of all subsequent
questionings is to bury the talent of your mind. It is no use dealing with the intricate as
though it were simple, to leap haphazard at the first course of action that presents itself;
the whole world of politicians is far too like a man who snatches a poker to a failing watch.
It is easy to say he wants to "get something done," but the only sane thing to do for the moment
is to put aside that poker and take thought and get a better implement....

One of the results of these fundamental preoccupations of mine was a curious irritability towards
Margaret that I found difficult to conceal. It was one of the incidental cruelties of our position
that this should happen. I was in such doubt myself, that I had no power to phrase things for
her in a form she could use. Hitherto I had stage-managed our "serious" conversations. Now
I was too much in earnest and too uncertain to go on doing this. I avoided talk with her. Her
serene, sustained confidence in vague formulae and sentimental aspirations exasperated me;
her want of sympathetic apprehension made my few efforts to indicate my changing attitudes
distressing and futile. It wasn't that I was always thinking right, and that she was always
saying wrong. It was that I was struggling to get hold of a difficult thing that was, at any
rate, half true, I could not gauge how true, and that Margaret's habitual phrasing ignored
these elusive elements of truth, and without premeditation fitted into the weaknesses of my
new intimations, as though they had nothing but weaknesses. It was, for example, obvious that
these big people, who were the backbone of Imperialism and Conservatism, were temperamentally
lax, much more indolent, much more sensuous, than our deliberately virtuous Young Liberals.
I didn't want to be reminded of that, just when I was in full effort to realise the finer elements
in their composition. Margaret classed them and disposed of them. It was our incurable differences
in habits and gestures of thought coming between us again.

The desert of misunderstanding widened. I was forced back upon myself and my own secret councils.
For a time I went my way alone; an unmixed evil for both of us. Except for that Pentagram evening,
a series of talks with Isabel Rivers, who was now becoming more and more important in my intellectual
life, and the arguments I maintained with Crupp, I never really opened my mind at all during
that period of indecisions, slow abandonments, and slow acquisitions.

CHAPTER THE THIRD ~~ SECESSION

1

At last, out of a vast accumulation of impressions, decision distilled quite suddenly. I succumbed
to Evesham and that dream of the right thing triumphant through expression. I determined I
would go over to the Conservatives, and use my every gift and power on the side of such forces
on that side as made for educational reorganisation, scientific research, literature, criticism,
and intellectual development. That was in 1909. I judged the Tories were driving straight at
a conflict with the country, and I thought them bound to incur an electoral defeat. I under-estimated
their strength in the counties. There would follow, I calculated, a period of profound reconstruction
in method and policy alike. I was entirely at one with Crupp in perceiving in this an immense
opportunity for the things we desired. An aristocracy quickened by conflict and on the defensive,
and full of the idea of justification by reconstruction, might prove altogether more apt for
thought and high professions than Mrs. Redmondson's spoilt children. Behind the now inevitable
struggle for a reform of the House of Lords, there would be great heart searchings and educational
endeavour. On that we reckoned....

At last we talked it out to the practical pitch, and Crupp and Shoesmith, and I and Gane, made
our definite agreement together....

I emerged from enormous silences upon Margaret one evening.

She was just back from the display of some new musicians at the Hartsteins. I remember she
wore a dress of golden satin, very rich-looking and splendid. About her slender neck there
was a rope of gold-set amber beads. Her hair caught up and echoed and returned these golden
notes. I, too, was in evening dress, but where I had been escapes me,--some forgotten dinner,
I suppose. I went into her room. I remember I didn't speak for some moments. I went across
to the window and pulled the blind aside, and looked out upon the railed garden of the square,
with its shrubs and shadowed turf gleaming pallidly and irregularly in the light of the big
electric standard in the corner.

"Margaret," I said, "I think I shall break with the party."

She made no answer. I turned presently, a movement of enquiry.

"I was afraid you meant to do that," she said.

"I'm out of touch," I explained. "Altogether."

"Oh! I know."

"It places me in a difficult position," I said.

Margaret stood at her dressing-table, looking steadfastly at herself in the glass, and with
her fingers playing with a litter of stoppered bottles of tinted glass. "I was afraid it was
coming to this," she said.

"In a way," I said, "we've been allies. I owe my seat to you. I couldn't have gone into Parliament...."

"I don't want considerations like that to affect us," she interrupted.

There was a pause. She sat down in a chair by her dressing-table, lifted an ivory hand-glass,
and put it down again.

"I wish," she said, with something like a sob in her voice, "it were possible that you shouldn't
do this." She stopped abruptly, and I did not look at her, because I could feel the effort
she was making to control herself.

"I thought," she began again, "when you came into Parliament--"

There came another silence. "It's all gone so differently," she said. "Everything has gone
so differently."

I had a sudden memory of her, shining triumphant after the Kinghampstead election, and for
the first time I realised just how perplexing and disappointing my subsequent career must have
been to her.

"I'm not doing this without consideration," I said.

"I know," she said, in a voice of despair, "I've seen it coming. But--I still don't understand
it. I don't understand how you can go over."

"My ideas have changed and developed," I said.

I walked across to her bearskin hearthrug, and stood by the mantel.

"To think that you," she said; "you who might have been leader--" She could not finish it.
"All the forces of reaction," she threw out.

"I don't think they are the forces of reaction," I said. "I think I can find work to do--better
work on that side."

"Against us!" she said. "As if progress wasn't hard enough! As if it didn't call upon every
able man!"

"I don't think Liberalism has a monopoly of progress."

She did not answer that. She sat quite still looking in front of her. "WHY have you gone over?"
she asked abruptly as though I had said nothing.

There came a silence that I was impelled to end. I began a stiff dissertation from the hearthrug.
"I am going over, because I think I may join in an intellectual renascence on the Conservative
side. I think that in the coming struggle there will be a partial and altogether confused and
demoralising victory for democracy, that will stir the classes which now dominate the Conservative
party into an energetic revival. They will set out to win back, and win back. Even if my estimate
of contemporary forces is wrong and they win, they will still be forced to reconstruct their
outlook. A war abroad will supply the chastening if home politics fail. The effort at renascence
is bound to come by either alternative. I believe I can do more in relation to that effort
than in any other connexion in the world of politics at the present time. That's my case, Margaret."

She certainly did not grasp what I said. "And so you will throw aside all the beginnings, all
the beliefs and pledges--" Again her sentence remained incomplete. "I doubt if even, once you
have gone over, they will welcome you."

"That hardly matters."

I made an effort to resume my speech.

"I came into Parliament, Margaret," I said, "a little prematurely. Still--I suppose it was
only by coming into Parliament that I could see things as I do now in terms of personality
and imaginative range...." I stopped. Her stiff, unhappy, unlistening silence broke up my disquisition.

"After all," I remarked, "most of this has been implicit in my writings."

She made no sign of admission.

"What are you going to do?" she asked.

"Keep my seat for a time and make the reasons of my breach clear. Then either I must resign
or--probably this new Budget will lead to a General Election. It's evidently meant to strain
the Lords and provoke a quarrel."

"You might, I think, have stayed to fight for the Budget."

"I'm not," I said, "so keen against the Lords."

On that we halted.

"But what are you going to do?" she asked.

"I shall make my quarrel over some points in the Budget. I can't quite tell you yet where my
chance will come. Then I shall either resign my seat--or if things drift to dissolution I shall
stand again."

"It's political suicide."

"Not altogether."

"I can't imagine you out of Parliament again. It's just like--like undoing all we have done.
What will you do?"

"Write. Make a new, more definite place for myself. You know, of course, there's already a
sort of group about Crupp and Gane."

Margaret seemed lost for a time in painful thought.

"For me," she said at last, "our political work has been a religion--it has been more than
a religion."

I heard in silence. I had no form of protest available against the implications of that.

"And then I find you turning against all we aimed to do--talking of going over, almost lightly--to
those others."...

She was white-lipped as she spoke. In the most curious way she had captured the moral values
of the situation. I found myself protesting ineffectually against her fixed conviction. "It's
because I think my duty lies in this change that I make it," I said.

"I don't see how you can say that," she replied quietly.

There was another pause between us.

"Oh!" she said and clenched her hand upon the table. "That it should have come to this!"

She was extraordinarily dignified and extraordinarily absurd. She was hurt and thwarted beyond
measure. She had no place in her ideas, I thought, for me. I could see how it appeared to her,
but I could not make her see anything of the intricate process that had brought me to this
divergence. The opposition of our intellectual temperaments was like a gag in my mouth. What
was there for me to say? A flash of intuition told me that behind her white dignity was a passionate
disappointment, a shattering of dreams that needed before everything else the relief of weeping.

"I've told you," I said awkwardly, "as soon as I could."

There was another long silence. "So that is how we stand," I said with an air of having things
defined. I walked slowly to the door.

She had risen and stood now staring in front of her.

"Good-night," I said, making no movement towards our habitual kiss.

"Good-night," she answered in a tragic note....

I closed the door softly. I remained for a moment or so on the big landing, hesitating between
my bedroom and my study. As I did so I heard the soft rustle of her movement and the click
of the key in her bedroom door. Then everything was still....

She hid her tears from me. Something gripped my heart at the thought.

"Damnation!" I said wincing. "Why the devil can't people at least THINK in the same manner?"

2

And that insufficient colloquy was the beginning of a prolonged estrangement between us. It
was characteristic of our relations that we never reopened the discussion. The thing had been
in the air for some time; we had recognised it now; the widening breach between us was confessed.
My own feelings were curiously divided. It is remarkable that my very real affection for Margaret
only became evident to me with this quarrel. The changes of the heart are very subtle changes.
I am quite unaware how or when my early romantic love for her purity and beauty and high-principled
devotion evaporated from my life; but I do know that quite early in my parliamentary days there
had come a vague, unconfessed resentment at the tie that seemed to hold me in servitude to
her standards of private living and public act. I felt I was caught, and none the less so because
it had been my own act to rivet on my shackles. So long as I still held myself bound to her
that resentment grew. Now, since I had broken my bonds and taken my line it withered again,
and I could think of Margaret with a returning kindliness.

But I still felt embarrassment with her. I felt myself dependent upon her for house room and
food and social support, as it were under false pretences. I would have liked to have separated
our financial affairs altogether. But I knew that to raise the issue would have seemed a last
brutal indelicacy. So I tried almost furtively to keep my personal expenditure within the scope
of the private income I made by writing, and we went out together in her motor brougham, dined
and made appearances, met politely at breakfast--parted at night with a kiss upon her cheek.
The locking of her door upon me, which at that time I quite understood, which I understand
now, became for a time in my mind, through some obscure process of the soul, an offence. I
never crossed the landing to her room again.

In all this matter, and, indeed, in all my relations with Margaret, I perceive now I behaved
badly and foolishly. My manifest blunder is that I, who was several years older than she, much
subtler and in many ways wiser, never in any measure sought to guide and control her. After
our marriage I treated her always as an equal, and let her go her way; held her responsible
for all the weak and ineffective and unfortunate things she said and did to me. She wasn't
clever enough to justify that. It wasn't fair to expect her to sympathise, anticipate, and
understand. I ought to have taken care of her, roped her to me when it came to crossing the
difficult places. If I had loved her more, and wiselier and more tenderly, if there had not
been the consciousness of my financial dependence on her always stiffening my pride, I think
she would have moved with me from the outset, and left the Liberals with me. But she did not
get any inkling of the ends I sought in my change of sides. It must have seemed to her inexplicable
perversity. She had, I knew--for surely I knew it then--an immense capacity for loyalty and
devotion. There she was with these treasures untouched, neglected and perplexed. A woman who
loves wants to give. It is the duty and business of the man she has married for love to help
her to help and give. But I was stupid. My eyes had never been opened. I was stiff with her
and difficult to her, because even on my wedding morning there had been, deep down in my soul,
voiceless though present, something weakly protesting, a faint perception of wrong-doing, the
infinitesimally small, slow-multiplying germs of shame.

3

I made my breach with the party on the Budget.

In many ways I was disposed to regard the 1909 Budget as a fine piece of statecraft. Its production
was certainly a very unexpected display of vigour on the Liberal side. But, on the whole, this
movement towards collectivist organisation on the part of the Liberals rather strengthened
than weakened my resolve to cross the floor of the house. It made it more necessary, I thought,
to leaven the purely obstructive and reactionary elements that were at once manifest in the
opposition. I assailed the land taxation proposals in one main speech, and a series of minor
speeches in committee. The line of attack I chose was that the land was a great public service
that needed to be controlled on broad and far-sighted lines. I had no objection to its nationalisation,
but I did object most strenuously to the idea of leaving it in private hands, and attempting
to produce beneficial social results through the pressure of taxation upon the land-owning
class. That might break it up in an utterly disastrous way. The drift of the government proposals
was all in the direction of sweating the landowner to get immediate values from his property,
and such a course of action was bound to give us an irritated and vindictive land-owning class,
the class upon which we had hitherto relied--not unjustifiably--for certain broad, patriotic
services and an influence upon our collective judgments that no other class seemed prepared
to exercise. Abolish landlordism if you will, I said, buy it out, but do not drive it to a
defensive fight, and leave it still sufficiently strong and wealthy to become a malcontent
element in your state. You have taxed and controlled the brewer and the publican until the
outraged Liquor Interest has become a national danger. You now propose to do the same thing
on a larger scale. You turn a class which has many fine and truly aristocratic traditions towards
revolt, and there is nothing in these or any other of your proposals that shows any sense of
the need for leadership to replace these traditional leaders you are ousting. This was the
substance of my case, and I hammered at it not only in the House, but in the press....

The Kinghampstead division remained for some time insensitive to my defection.

