The difficulties of communication in Shikoku are so considerable that I was compelled to leave
the two prefectures of Tokushima and Kochi unvisited. Kochi is without a yard of railway line.
In the prefecture of Ehime most of my journey had to be made by kuruma. Communication between
the four prefectures of Shikoku--the one in which I landed was Kagawa--is largely conducted
by coasting steamers and sailing craft. An interesting thing in Kochi is the area by the sea
in which two crops of rice are grown in the year. Tokushima holds a leading place in the production
of indigo. At one place in the hills the adventurous have the satisfaction of crossing a river
by means of suspension bridges made of vine branches.

The streets of Takamatsu, the capital of Kagawa, are many of them so narrow that the shopkeepers
on either side have joint sun screens which they draw right across the thoroughfares. Here
I found the carts hauled by a smallish breed of cow. The placid animals are handier in a narrow
place and less expensive than horses. They are shod, like their drivers, in waraji. In Shikoku
the cow or ox is generally used in the paddies instead of the horse. "It is slower but strong
and can plough deep," one agricultural expert said. "It eats cheaper food than the horse, which
moves too fast in a small paddy. Cows and oxen are probably not working for more than seventy-five
or eighty days in the year."

At Takamatsu I had the opportunity of visiting a daimyo's castle. I was impressed by its strength
not only because of the wide moats but because of the series of earthen fortifications faced
with cyclopean stonework through which an invading force must wind its way. There was within
the walls a surprisingly large drilling ground for troops and also an extensive drug garden.
The present owner of the castle proposed to build here a library and a museum for the town.
I was glad of the opportunity to ascend one of the high pagoda-like towers so familiar in Japanese
paintings. I was disillusioned. Instead of finding myself in beautiful rooms for the enjoyment
of marvellous views and sea breezes I had to clamber over the roughest cob-webbed timbers.
One storey was connected with another by a stair of rude planking. Such pagodas were built
only for their military value as lookouts and for their delightful appearance from the outside.

The town now enjoyed as a park of more than ten acres the grounds of a subsidiary residence
of the daimyo. The magnificent trees, with lakes, rivulets and hills fashioned with infinite
art,[175] and the background of natural hill and woodland, made in all a possession which exhibited
the delectable possibilities of Japanese gardening. An occasional electric light amid the trees
gave an effect in the evening in which Japanese delight. Some of the old carp which dashed
up to the bridges when they heard our footsteps seemed to be not far short of 3 ft. long.

Except for a small patch of sugar cane in Shidzuoka--it is grown practically on the sea beach
where it is visible from the express--the visitor to Japan may never see sugar cane until Shikoku
is reached. The value of the crop in the whole island is about 800,000 yen. The tall cane is
conspicuous alongside the more diminutive rice. In this prefecture an experiment is being made
in growing olives.

Kagawa is remarkable in having had until lately 30,000 pond reservoirs for the irrigation of
rice fields. Under the new system of rice-field adjustment many of the ponds are joined together.
Because in Shikoku flat tracts of land or tracts that can be made flat are limited in number
the farmers have to be content with small pieces of land. The average area of farm in Kagawa
outside the mountainous region is less than two acres. When the farms are near the sea, as
they commonly are, the agriculturists may also be fishermen.

The number of place names ending in ji (temple) proclaims the former flourishing condition
of Buddhism. Shikoku is a great resort of white-clothed pilgrims. Sometimes it is a solitary
man whom one sees on the road, sometimes a company of men, occasionally a family. Not seldom
the pilgrim or his companion is manifestly suffering from some affection which the pilgrimage
is to cure. In the old days it was not unusual to send the victim of "the shameful disease"
or of an incurable ailment on a pilgrimage from shrine to shrine or temple to temple. He was
not expected to return. In Shikoku there are eighty-eight temples to Buddha and the founder
of the Shingon sect, and it is estimated that it would mean a 760 miles' journey to visit them all.

We went off our route at one point where my companion wished to visit a gorgeous shrine. A
guidebook said that people flocked there "by the million," but what I was told was that last
year's attendance was 80,000. The street leading to the approach to the shrine was in a series
of steps. On either side were the usual shops with piled-up mementoes in great variety and
of no little ingenuity, and also, on spikes, little stacks of rin--the old copper coin with
a square hole through the middle--into which the economical devotee takes care to exchange
a few sen. We climbed to the shrine when twilight was coming on. At the point where the series
of street steps ended there began a new series of about a thousand steps belonging to the shrine.
A thousand granite steps may be tiring after a hot day's travel in a kuruma. All the way up
to the shrine there were granite pillars almost brand new, first short ones, then taller, then
taller still, and after these a few which topped the tallest. They were conspicuously inscribed
with the names of donors to the shrine. A small pillar was priced at 10 yen. What the big,
bigger and biggest cost I do not know. I turned from the pillars to the stone lanterns. "They
burn cedar wood, I believe," said my companion. But soon afterwards I saw a man working at
them with a length of electric-light wire.

The great shrine was impressive in the twilight. There was a platform near, and from it we
looked down from the tree-covered heights through the growing darkness. Where the lights of
the town twinkled there was a subsidiary shrine. A bare-headed, kimono-clad sailor stepped
forward near us and bowed his head to some semblance of deity down there. Various fishermen
had brought the anchors of their ships and the oars of their boats to show forth their thankfulness
for safety at sea. In the murkiness I was just able to pick out the outlines of a bronze horse
which stands at the shrine, "as a sort of scape-goat," my companion explained. "It is probably
Buddhist," he said; "but you can never be sure; these priests embellish the history of their
temples so."

It was at the inn in the evening that someone told me that in the town which is dependent on
the shrine there were "a hundred prostitutes, thirty geisha and some waitresses." Late at night
I had a visit from a man in a position of great responsibility in the prefecture. He was at
a loss to know what could be done for morality. "Religion is not powerful," he said, "the schools
do not reach grown-up people, the young men's societies are weak, many sects and new moralities
are attacking our people, and there are many cheap books of a low class."

Next day I laid this view before a group of landlords. They did not reply for a little and
my skilful interpreter said, "they are thinking deeply." At length one of them delivered himself
to this effect: "Landowners hereabouts are mostly of a base sort. They always consider things
from a material and personal point of view. But if they are attacked and made to act more for
the public good it may have an effect on rural conditions which are now low."

I enquired about the new sects of Buddhism and Shintoism, for there had been pointed out to
me in some villages "houses of new religions." "New religions in many varieties are coming
into the villages," I was told, "and extravagant though they may be are influencing people.
The adherents seem to be moral and modest, and they pay their taxes promptly. There is a so-called
Shinto sect which was started twenty years ago by an ignorant woman. It has believers in every
part of Japan. It is rather communistic."[176] None of the landlords who talked with me believed
in the possibility of a "revival of Buddhism." One of them noted that "people educated in the
early part of Meiji are most materialistic. It is a sorrowful circumstance that the officials
ask only materialistic questions of the villagers."

I asked one of the landlords about his tenants. He said that his "largest tenant" had no more
than 1.3 tan of paddy. It was explained that "tenants are obedient to the landowner in this
prefecture." Under the system of official rewards which exists in Japan, 1,086 persons in the
prefecture had been "rewarded" by a kind of certificate of merit and nine with money--to the
total value of 26 yen.

When I drew attention to the fact that the manufacture of saké and soy seemed to be frequently
in the hands of landowners it was explained to me that formerly this was their industry exclusively.
Even now "whereas an ordinary shop-keeper is required by etiquette to say 'Thank you' to his
customer, a purchaser of saké or soy says 'Thank you' to the shop-keeper."

The flower arrangement in my room in the inn consisted of an effective combination of hagi
(Lespedeza bicolor, a leguminous plant which is grown for cattle and has been a favourite subject
of Japanese poetry), a cabbage, a rose, a begonia and leaf and a fir branch.

A landowner I chatted with in the train showed me that it was a serious matter to receive the
distinction of growing the millet for use at the Coronation. One of his friends who was growing
5 sh=o, the actual value of which might be 50 or 60 sen, was spending on it first and last
about 3,000 yen.

I enquired about the diversions of landowners. It is easy, of course, to have an inaccurate
impression of the extent of their leisure. Only about 1 per cent, have more than 25 acres.[177]
Therefore most of these men are either farmers themselves or must spend a great deal of time
looking after their tenants. Still, some landowners are able to take things rather easily.
The landowners I interrogated marvelled at the open-air habits of English landed proprietors.
They were greatly surprised when I told them of a countess who is a grandmother but thinks
nothing of a canter before breakfast. The mark of being well off was often to stay indoors
or at any rate within garden walls, which necessarily enclose a very small area. (Hence the
fact that one object of Japanese gardening is to suggest a much larger space than exists.)
A good deal of time is spent "in appreciating fine arts." Ceremonial tea drinking still claims
no small amount of attention. (In many gardens and in the grounds of hotels of any pretensions
one comes on the ostentatiously humble chamber for Cha-no-yu.) No doubt there is among many
landowners a considerable amount of drinking of something stronger than tea, and not a few
men sacrifice freely to Venus. Perhaps the greatest claimant of all on the time of those who
have time to spare is the game of go, which is said to be more difficult than chess. One cannot
but remark the comparatively pale faces of many landowners.

As we went along by the coast it was pointed out to me that it was from this neighbourhood
that some of the most indomitable of the old-time pirates set sail on their expeditions to
ravage the Chinese coast. They visited that coast all the way from Vladivostock, now Russian
(and like to be Japanese), to Saigon, now French. There are many Chinese books discussing effectual
methods of repelling the pirates. In an official Japanese work I once noticed, in the enumeration
of Japanese rights in Taiwan (Formosa), the naïve claim that long ago it was visited by Japanese
pirates! The Japanese fisherman is still an intrepid person, and in villages which have an
admixture of fishing folk the seafarers, from their habit of following old customs and taking
their own way generally, are the constant subject of rural reformers' laments.

I spent some time in a typical inland village. The very last available yard of land was utilised.
The cottages stood on plots buttressed by stone, and only the well-to-do had a yard or garden;
paddy came right up to the foundations. Now that the rice was high no division showed between
the different paddy holdings. I noticed here that the round, carefully concreted manure tank
which each farmer possessed had a reinforced concrete hood. I asked a landowner who was in
a comfortable position what societies there were in his village. He mentioned a society "to
console old people and reward virtue." Then there was the society of householders, such as
is mentioned in Confucius, which met in the spring and autumn, and ate and drank and discussed
local topics "with open heart." There were sometimes quarrels due to saké. Indeed, some villagers
seemed to save up their differences until the householders' meeting at its saké stage. At householders'
meetings where there was no saké peace appeared to prevail. The householders' meeting was a
kind of informal village assembly. That assembly itself ordinarily met twice a year. There
were in the village, in addition to the householders' organisation, the usual reservists' association,
the young men's society and agricultural association. As to kō, from philanthropic motives
my informant was a member of no fewer than ten.

My host told me that he spent a good deal of time in playing go, but in the shooting season
(October 15 to April 15) he made trips to the hills and shot pheasants, hares, pigeons and
deer. In the garden of his house two gardeners were stretched along the branches of a pine
tree, nimbly and industriously picking out the shoots in order to get that bare appearance
which has no doubt puzzled many a Western student of Japanese tree pictures. Each man's ladder--two
lengths of bamboo with rungs tied on with string--was carefully leant against a pole laid from
the ground through the branches. Many of the well-cared-for trees in the gardens and public
places of Japan pass the winter in neat wrappings of straw.

I visited a farm-house and found the farmer making baskets. When I was examining the winnowing
machine my companion reminded me smilingly that when he was a boy he was warned never to turn
the wheel of the winnowing machine when the contrivance had no grain in it or a demon might
come out. There was a properly protected tank of liquid manure and a well-roofed manure house.
The family bath in an open shed was of a sort I had not seen before, a kind of copper with
a step up to it. Straw rope about three-quarters of an inch in diameter was being made by the
farmer's son, a day's work being 40 yds. At another farm a woman showed me the working of a
rough loom with which she could in a day make a score of mats worth in all 60 sen. From the
farmer's house I went to the room of the young men's association and looked over its library.
I was impressed by the high level of civilisation which this village seemed to exhibit in essentials.

When we continued our journey we saw two portable water wheels by means of which water was
being lifted into a paddy. Each wheel was worked by a man who continually ascended the floats.
The two men were able to leave their wheels in turn for a rest, for a third man was stretched
on the ground in readiness for his spell. It seems that a man can keep on the water tread-mill
for an hour. The two wheels together were lifting an amazing amount of water at a great rate.
When the pumping is finished one of these light water wheels is easily carried home on a man's
shoulders.

Farther on I saw in a dry river bed a man sieving gravel in an ingenious way. The trouble in
sieving gravel is that if the sieve be filled to its capacity the shaking soon becomes tiring.
This man had a square sieve which when lying on the ground was attached at one side by two
ropes to a firmly fixed tripod of poles. When the sieve was filled the labourer lifted it far
enough away from the tripod for it to be swinging on one side. Therefore when he shook the
sieve he sustained a portion only of its weight.

As we rode along I was told that the largest taxpayer in the county "does not live in idleness
but does many good works." The next largest taxpayer "labours every day in the field." When
I enquired as to the recreations of moneyed men I was told "travelling, go and poem writing."

As we rode by the sea a trustworthy informant pointed out to me an islet where he said the
young men have the young women in common and "give permission for them to marry." There is
a house in which the girls live together at a particular time and are then free from the attentions
of the youths. Children born are brought up in the families of the mothers but there is some
infanticide. In another little island off the coast there are only two classes of people, the
seniors and the juniors. Any person senior to any other "may give him orders and call him by
his second name." (The surname comes first in Japanese names.)

Our route led us along the track of the new railway line which was penetrating from Kagawa
into Ehime. Not for the first time on my journeys was I told of the corrupting influence exerted
on the countryside by the imported "navvies," if our Western name may be applied to men who
in figure and dress look so little like the big fellows who do the same kind of work in England.
Although these navvies were a rough lot and our ancient basha (a kind of four-wheeled covered
carriage) was a thing for mirth, we met with no incivility as we picked our way among them
for a mile or two. I was a witness indeed of a creditable incident. A handcart full of earth
was being taken along the edge of the roadway, with one man in the shafts and another pushing
behind. Suddenly a wheel slipped over the side of the roadway, the cart was canted on its axle,
the man in the shafts received a jolt and the cargo was shot out. Had our sort of navvies been
concerned there would have been words of heat and colour. The Japanese laughed.

The reference to our venerable basha reminds me of a well-known story which was once told me
by a Japanese as a specimen of Japanese humour. A basha, I may explain, has rather the appearance
of a vehicle which was evolved by a Japanese of an economical turn after hearing a description
of an omnibus from a foreigner who spoke very little Japanese and had not been home for forty
years. The body of the vehicle is just high enough and the seats just wide enough for Japanese.
So the foreigner continually bumps the roof, and when he is not bumping the roof he has much
too narrow a seat to sit on. Sometimes the basha has springs of a sort and sometimes it has
none. But springs would avail little on the rural roads by which many basha travel. The only
tolerable place for Mr. Foreigner in a basha is one of the top corner seats behind the driver,
for the traveller may there throw an arm round one of the uprights which support the roof.
If at an unusually hard bump he should lose his hold he is saved from being cast on the floor
by the responsive bodies of his polite and sympathetic fellow-travellers who are embedded between
him and the door. The tale goes that a tourist who was serving his term in a basha was perplexed
to find that the passengers were charged, some first-, some second-and some third-class fare.
While he clung to his upright and shook with every lurch of the conveyance this problem of
unequal fares obsessed him. It was like the persistent "punch-in-the-presence-of-the-passengare."
What possible advantage, he pondered, could he as first class be getting over the second and
the second class over the third? At length at a steep part of the road the vehicle stopped.
The driver came round, opened the door, and bowing politely said: "Honourable first-class passengers
will graciously condescend to keep their seats. Second-class passengers will be good enough
to favour us by walking. Third-class passengers will kindly come out and push." And push they
did, no doubt, kimonos rolled up thighwards, with good humour, sprightliness and cheerful grunts,
as is the way with willing workers in Japan.

FOOTNOTES:

[173] At Anjo agricultural experiment station I saw eighteen kinds of small threshing machines
at from 13 to 18 yen. There were husking machines of three sorts. A rice thresher was equal
to dealing with the crop of one tan, estimated at 2 koku 4 to, in three hours.

[174] See Appendix XLVI.

[175] It is quite possible that the trees had also come into their positions artificially.
There are no more skilful tree movers than the Japanese.

[176] It has recently come into collision with the authorities. Another sect with Shinto ideas
was also started by a woman.

[177] See Appendix XLVII.

CHAPTER XXV

"SPECIAL TRIBES"

(EHIME)

A frank basis of reality.--Meredith

In the prefecture of Ehime our journey was still by basha or kuruma and near the sea. The first
man we talked with was a gunchō who said that "more than half the villages contained a strong
character who can lead." He told us of one of the new religions which taught its adherents
to do some good deed secretly. The people who accepted this religion mended roads, cleaned
out ponds and made offerings at the graves of persons whose names were forgotten. I think it
was this man who used the phrase, "There is a shortage of religions."

I had not before noticed wax trees. They are slighter than apple trees, but often occupy about
the same space as the old-fashioned standard apple. The clusters of berries have some resemblance
to elderberries and would turn black if they were not picked green.[178] Occasionally we saw
fine camphor trees. Alas, owing to the high price of camphor, some beautiful specimens near
shrines, where they were as imposing as cryptomeria, had been sacrificed.

I began to observe the dreadful destruction wrought in the early ear stage of rice not by cold
but by wind. The wind knocks the plants against one another and the friction generates enough
heat to arrest further development. The crops affected in this way were grey in patches and
looked as if hot water had been sprayed over them. In one county the loss was put as high as
90 per cent. Happily farmers generally sow several sorts of rice. Therefore paddies come into
ear at different times.

The heads of millet and the threshed grain of other upland crops were drying on mats by the
roadside, for in the areas where land is so much in demand there is no other space available.
Sesame, not unlike snapdragon gone to seed, only stronger in build, was set against the houses.
On the growing crops on the uplands dead stalks and chopped straw were being used as mulch.

I noticed that implements seemed always to be well housed and to be put away clean. Handcarts,
boats and the stacks of poles used in making frameworks for drying rice were protected from
the weather by being thatched over.

We continued to see many white-clad pilgrims and everywhere touring students, as often afoot
as on bicycles. I noted from the registers at many village offices that the number of young
men who married before performing their military service seemed to be decreasing. In one community,
where there were two priests, one Tendai and the other Shingon, neither seemed to count for
much. One was very poor, and cultivated a small patch near his temple; the other had a little
more than a chō. The custom was for the farmers to present to their temple from 5 to 10 shō
of rice from the harvest.

In connection with the question of improved implements I noticed that a reasonably efficient
winnowing machine in use by a comfortably-off tenant was forty-nine years old--that is, that
it dated back to the time of the Shogun. The secondary industry of this farmer was dwarf-plant
growing. He had also a loom for cotton-cloth making. There were in his house, in addition to
a Buddhist shrine, two Shinto shrines. After leaving this man I visited an ex-teacher who had
lost his post at fifty, no doubt through being unable to keep step with modern educational
requirements. He had on his wall the lithograph of Pestalozzi and the children which I saw
in many school-houses.

On taking the road again I was told that the local landlords had held a meeting in view of
the losses of tenants through wind. Most had agreed to forgo rents and to help with artificial
manure for next year. I found taro being grown in paddies or under irrigation. Not only the
tubers of the taro but its finer stalks are eaten. I saw gourds cut into long lengths narrower
than apple rings and put out to dry. I also noticed orange trees a century old which were still
producing fruit. Boys were driving iron hoops--the native hoop was of bamboo--and one of the
hoop drivers wore a piece of red cloth stitched on his shoulder, which indicated that he was
head of his class. One missed a dog bounding and barking after the hoop drivers. Sometimes
at the doors of houses I noticed dogs of the lap-dog type which one sees in paintings or of
the wolf type to which the native outdoor dog belongs. The cats were as ugly as the dogs and
no plumper or happier looking. When I patted a dog or stroked a cat the act attracted attention.

We saw a good deal of hinoki (ground cypress), the wood of which is still used at Shinto festivals
for making fire by friction.

We were able to visit an Eta village or rather oaza. Whether the Eta are largely the descendants
of captives of an early era or of a low class of people who on the introduction of Buddhism
in the seventh or eighth century were ostracised because of their association with animal eating,
animal slaughter, working in leather and grave digging is in dispute. No doubt they have absorbed
a certain number of fugitives from higher grades of the population, broken samurai, ne'er-do-weels
and criminals. The situation as the foreigner discovers it is that all over Japan there are
hamlets of what are called "special tribes." In 1876, when distinctions between them and Japanese
generally were officially abolished, the total number was given as about a million. Most of
these peculiar people, perhaps three-quarters of them, are known as Eta. But whether they are
known as Eta or Shuku, or by some other name, ordinary Japanese do not care to eat with them,
marry with them or even talk with them. In the past Eta have often been prosperous, and many
are prosperous to-day, but a large number are still restricted to earning a living as butchers
and skin and leather workers, and grave diggers. The members of these "special tribes," believing
themselves to be despised without cause, usually make some effort to hide the fact that they
are Eta.

Shuku seem to be living principally in hamlets of a score or so of houses in the vicinity of
Osaka, Kyoto and Nara, and are often travelling players, or, like some Eta, skilled in making
tools and musical instruments. There seems to be a half Shuku or intermarried class. Many prostitutes
are said to be Shuku or Eta. I was told that most of the girls in the prostitutes' houses of
Shimane prefecture are from "special tribes," and that they are "preferred by the proprietors"
because, as I was gravely informed, "they do not weary of their profession and are therefore
more acceptable to customers." As prostitutes are frequently married by their patrons, it is
believed that not a few women from "special villages" are taken to wife without their origin
being known. Unwitting marriage with an Eta woman has long been a common motif in fiction and
folk story. Many members of the "special tribes" go to Hokkaido and there pass into the general
body of the population. The folk of this class are "despised," I was told by a responsible
Japanese, "not so much for themselves as for what their fathers and grandfathers did." The
country people undoubtedly treat them more harshly than the townspeople, but a man of the "special
tribes" is often employed as a watchman of fields or forests. I was warned that it was judicious
to avoid using the word Eta or Shuku in the presence of common people lest one might be addressing
by chance a member of the "special tribes."

Except that the houses of the village we were visiting looked possibly a trifle more primitive
than those of the non-Eta population outside the oaza, I did not discern anything different
from what I saw elsewhere. The people were of the Shinshu sect; there was no Shinto shrine.
At the public room I noticed the gymnastic apparatus of the "fire defenders." The hamlet was
traditionally 300 years old and one family was still recognised as chief. According to the
constable, who eagerly imparted the information, the crops were larger than those of neighbouring
villages "because the people, male and female, are always diligent."

The man who was brought forward as the representative of the village was an ex-soldier and
seemed a quiet, able and self-respecting but sad human being. His house and holding were in
excellent order. None of his neighbours smiled on us. Some I thought went indoors needlessly;
a few came as near to glowering as can be expected in Japan. I got the impression that the
people were cared for but were conscious of being "hauden doon" or kept at arm's length.[179]

Our next stop was for a rest in a fine garden, the effect of which was spoilt in one place
by a distressing life-size statue of the owner's father. When we took to our kuruma again we
passed through a village at the approaches to which thick straw ropes such as are seen at shrines
had been stretched across the road. Charms were attached. The object was to keep off an epidemic.

The indigo leaves drying on mats in front of some of the cottages were a delight to the eye.
There were also mats covered with cotton which looked like fluffy cocoons. On the telegraph
wires, the poles of which all over Japan take short cuts through the paddies, swallows clustered
as in England, but it is to the South Seas, not to Africa, that the Japanese swallow migrates.
When the telegraph was a newer feature of the Japanese landscape than it is now swallows on
the wires were a favourite subject for young painters.

We crossed a dry river bed of considerable width at a place where the current had made an excavation
in the gravel, rocks and earth several yards deep. It was an impressive illustration of the
power of a heavy flood.

I found in one mountainous county that only about a sixth of the area was under cultivation.
A responsible man said: "This is a county of the biggest landlords and the smallest tenants.
Too many landowners are thinking of themselves, so there arise sometimes severe conflicts.
Some 4,000 tenants have gone to Hokkaido." The conversation got round to the young men's societies
and I was told a story of how an Eta village threatened by floods had been saved by the young
men of the neighbouring non-Eta village working all night at a weakened embankment. Some days
later an Eta deputation came to the village and "with tears in their eyes gave thanks for what
had been done." The comment of a Japanese friend was: "In the present state of Japan hypocrisy
may be valuable. The boys and the Eta were at least exercising themselves in virtue."

Four villages in this county have among them eight fish nurseries, the area of salt water enclosed
being roughly 120 acres. I looked into several cottages where paper making was going on.[180]

I also went into two cotton mills. In both there were girls who were not more than eleven or
twelve. "They are exempted from school by national regulation because of the poverty of their
parents,"[181] I was told.

As we passed the open shop fronts of the village barbers I saw that as often as not a woman
was shaving the customer or using the patent clippers on him.

We looked at a big dam which an enterprising landowner was constructing. Three hundred women
were consolidating the earthwork by means of round, flat blocks of granite about twice the
size of a curling stone. Round each block was a groove in which was a leather belt with a number
of rings threaded on it. To each ring a rope was attached. When these ropes were extended the
granite block became the hub of a wheel of which the ropes were the spokes. A number of women
and girls took ropes apiece and jerked them simultaneously, whereupon the granite block rose
in the air to the level of the rope pullers' heads. It was then allowed to fall with a thud.
After each thud the pullers moved along a foot so that the block should drop on a fresh spot.
The gangs hauling at the rammers worked to the tune of a plaintive ditty which went slowly
so as to give them plenty of breathing time. It was something like this:

        Weep not,
        Do not lament,
        This world is as the wheel of a car.
        If we live long,
        We may meet again on the road.

None of the sturdy earth thumpers seemed to be overworked in the bracing air of the dam top,
and they certainly looked picturesque with their white and blue towels round their heads. Indeed,
with all the singing and movement, not to speak of the refreshment stalls, the scene was not
unlike a fair. When we got back to the road again we passed through a well-watered rice district
which was equal to the production of heavy crops. Only three years before it had been covered
by a thick forest in which it was not uncommon for robbers to lurk. The transformation had
been brought about by the construction of a dam in the hills somewhat similar to the one we
had just visited.

I could not but notice in this district the considerable areas given up to grave-plots. No
crematoria seemed to be in use. There had been a newspaper proposal that in areas where the
population was very large in proportion to the land available for cultivation the dead should
be taken out to sea. Where land is scarce one sees various expedients practised so that every
square foot shall be cropped. I repeatedly found stacks of straw or sticks standing not on
the land but on a rough bridge thrown for the purpose over a drainage ditch. In this district
land had been recovered from the sea.

FOOTNOTES:

[178] For an account of a vegetable wax factory, see Appendix XLVIII.

[179] For further particulars of Eta in Japan and America, see Appendix XLIX.

[180] See Appendix L.

[181] In 1918 net profits of 33 million yen were made by cotton factories. The factories are
anticipating sharp competition from China.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE STORY OF THE BLIND HEADMAN

(EHIME)

The thing to do is to rise humorously above one's body which is the veritable rebel, not one's
mind.--MEREDITH

It is delightful to find so many things made of copper. Copper, not iron, is in Japan the most
valuable mineral product after coal.[182] But there are drawbacks to a successful copper industry.
Several times as I came along by the coast I heard how the farmers' crops had been damaged
by the fumes of a copper refinery. "There are four copper refineries in Japan, who fighted
very much with the farmers," it was explained. The Department of Agriculture is also the Department
of Commerce and "it was embarrassed by those battles." The upshot was that one refinery moved
to an island, another rebuilt its chimney and the two others agreed to pay compensation because
it was cheaper than to install a new system. The refinery which had removed to an island seven
miles off the coast I had been traversing had had to pay compensation as well as remove. I
saw an apparatus that it had put up among rice fields to aid it in determining how often the
wind was carrying its fumes there. The compensation which this refinery was paying yearly amounted
to as much as 75,000 yen. It had also been compelled to buy up 500 chō of the complaining farmers'
land. When we ascended by basha into the mountains we looked down on a copper mine in a ravine
through which the river tumbled. The man who had opened the original road over the pass had
had the beautiful idea of planting cherry trees along it so that the traveller might enjoy
the beauty of their blossoms in spring and their foliage and outlines the rest of the year.
The trees had attained noble proportions when the refinery started work and very soon killed
most of them. They looked as if they had been struck by lightning.

Some miles farther on, wherever on the mountain-side a little tract could be held up by walling,
the chance of getting land for cultivation had been eagerly seized. It would be difficult to
give an impression of the patient endeavour and skilful culture represented by the farming
on these isolated terraces held up by Galloway dykes. Elsewhere the heights were tree-clad.
In places, where the trees had been destroyed by forest fires or had been cleared, amazingly
large areas had been closely cut over for forage. One great eminence was a wonderful sight
with its whole side smoothed by the sickles of indomitable forage collectors. In some spots
"fire farming" had been or was still being practised. Here and there the cultivation of the
shrubs grown for the production of paper-making bark had displaced "fire farming." I saw patches
of millet and sweet potato which from the road seemed almost inaccessible.

On the admirable main road we passed many pack ponies carrying immense pieces of timber. Speaking
of timber, the economical method of preserving wood by charring is widely practised in Japan.
The palisades around houses and gardens and even the boards of which the walls or the lower
part of the walls of dwellings are constructed are often charred. The effect is not cheerful.
What does have a cheerful and trim effect is a thing constantly under one's notice, the habit
of keeping carefully swept the unpaved earth enclosed by a house and buildings as well as the
path or roadway to them. This careful sweeping is usually regarded as the special work of old
people. Even old ladies in families of rank in Tokyo take pleasure in their daily task of sweeping.

When we had crossed the pass and descended on the other side and taken kuruma we soon came
to a wide but absolutely dry river bed. The high embankments on either side and the width of
the river bed, which, walking behind our kuruma, it took us exactly four minutes to cross,
afforded yet another object lesson in the severity of the floods that afflict the country.
The rock-and rubble-choked condition of the rivers inclines the traveller to severe judgments
on the State and the prefectures for not getting on faster with the work of afforestation;
but it is only fair to note that in many places hillsides were pointed out to me which, bare
a generation ago, are now covered with trees. Within a distance of twenty-five miles hill plantations
were producing fruit to a yearly value of half a million yen. As for the cultivation on either
side of the roadway, along which our kurumaya were trotting us, I could not see a weed anywhere.

A favourite rural recreation in Ehime, as in Shimane on the mainland, is bull fighting. It
is not, however, fighting with bulls but between bulls: the sport has the redeeming feature
that the animals are not turned loose on one another but are held all the time by their owners
by means of the rope attached to the nose ring. The rope is gripped quite close to the bull's
head. The result of this measure of control is, it was averred, that a contest resolves itself
into a struggle to decide not which bull can fight better but which animal can push harder
with his head. That the bulls are occasionally injured there can be no doubt. The contests
are said to last from fifteen to twenty minutes and are decided by one of the combatants turning
tail. There is a good deal of gambling on the issue. In another prefecture of Shikoku the rustics
enjoy struggles between muzzled dogs. A taste for this sport is also cultivated in Akita. A
certain amount of dog and cock fighting goes on in Tokyo.

At an inn there was an evident desire to do us honour by providing a special dinner. One bowl
contained transparent fish soup. Lying at the bottom was a glassy eye staring up balefully
at me. (The head, especially the eye, of a fish is reckoned the daintiest morsel.) There was
a relish consisting of grapes in mustard. A third dish presented an entire squid. I passed
honourable dishes numbers two and three and drank the fish soup through clenched teeth and
with averted gaze.

I interrogated several chief constables on the absence of assaults on women from the lists
of crimes in the rural statistics I had collected. Various explanations were offered to me:
if there were cases of assault they were kept secret for the credit of the woman's family;
no prosecution could be instituted except at the instance of the woman, or, if married, the
woman's husband; women did not go out much alone; the number of cases was not in fact as large
as might be imagined, because the people were well behaved. An official who had had police
experience in the north of Japan declared that the south was more "moral and more civilised
and had higher tastes." In Ehime, for example, there was very little illegitimacy and fewer
children still-born than in any other prefecture. Nevertheless four offences against women
had occurred in villages in Ehime within the preceding twelve months.

One of the most interesting stories of rural regeneration I heard was told me by a blind man
who had become headman of his village at the time of the war with Russia. His life had been
indecorous and he had gradually lost his sight, and he took the headmanship with the wish to
make some atonement for his careless years. This is his story:

"Although I thought it important to advance the economic condition of the village it was still
more important to promote friendship. As the interests of landowners and tenants was the same
it was necessary to bring about an understanding. I began by asking landowners to contribute
a proportion of the crops to make a fund. I was blamed by only fourteen out of two hundred.
But the landowners who did blame me blamed me severely, so much so that my family[183] were
uneasy. I went from door to door with a bag collecting rice as the priests do. My eccentric
behaviour was reported in the papers. The anxiety of my household and relatives grew. My children
were told at the school that their father was a beggar. During the first harvest in which I
collected I gathered about 40 koku (about 200 bushels). In the fourth year a hundred tenants
came in a deputation to me. They said: 'This gathering of rice is for our benefit. But you
gather from the landowners only. So please let us contribute every year. Some of us will collect
among ourselves and bring the rice to you, so giving you no trouble.' I was very pleased with
that. But I did not express my pleasure. I scolded them. I said: 'Your plan is good but you
think only of yourselves. You do not give the landowners their due. When you bring your rent
to them you choose inferior rice. It is a bad custom.' I advised them to treat their landowners
with justice and achieve independence in the relation of tenant and landowner. They were moved
by my earnestness.

"In the next year the tenants exerted themselves and the landowners were pleased with them.
Thus the relation of landlord and tenant became better. The landowners in their turn became
desirous of showing a friendly feeling toward the tenants. Some landlords came to me and said,
'If you wish for any money in order to be of service to the tenants we will lend it to you
without interest.' I received some money. I lent money to tenants to buy manure and cattle,
to attack insect pests, to provide protection against wind and flood and to help to build new
dwellings nearer their work. By these means the tenants were encouraged and their welfare was
promoted. The landlords were also happier, for the rice was better and the land improved. The
landlords found that their happiness came from the tenants. There was good feeling between
them. The landlords began to help the tenants directly and indirectly. Roads and bridges and
many aids to cultivation were furnished by the landlords. A body of landlords was constituted
for these purposes and it collected money. My idea was realised that the way of teaching the
villages is to let landlords and tenants realise that their interests agree and they will become
more friendly."

The co-operative credit society which the blind headman established not only buys and sells
for its members in the ordinary way but hires land for division among the humbler cultivators.
One of the departments of the society's work is the collection of villagers' savings. They
are gathered every Sunday by school-children. One lad, I found from his book, had collected
on a particular Sunday 5 sen each--5 sen is a penny--from two houses and 10 sen each from another
two dwellings. The next Sunday he had received 5 sen from one house, 10 sen from two houses,
30 sen and 50 sen from others and a whole yen from the last house on his list. The subscriber
gets no receipt but sees the lad enter in his book the amount handed over to him, and the next
Sunday he sees the stamp of the bank against the sum. Some 390 householders out of the 497
in the village hand over savings to the boy and girl collectors, whose energy is stimulated
with 1 per cent. on the sums they gather. In five years the Sunday collections have amassed
60,000 yen. The previous year had been marked by a bad harvest and large sums had been drawn
out of the bank, but there was still a sum of 14,000 yen in hand.

In this village there had been issued one of the economic and moral diaries mentioned in an
earlier chapter. The diary of this village has two spaces for every day--that is, the economic
space and the moral space. The owner of this book had to do two good deeds daily, one economic
and the other moral, and he had to enter them up. Further, he had to hand in the book at the
end of the year to the earnest village agricultural and moral expert who devised the diary
and carefully tabulates the results of twelve months' economic and moral endeavour. One might
think that the scheme would break down at the handing in of the diary stage, but I was assured
that there were good reasons for believing that a considerable proportion of the 440 persons
who had taken out diaries would return them.

There is an old custom by which Buddhist believers, in companies of a dozen or so, meet to
eat and drink together. As a good deal is eaten and drunk the gatherings are costly. Our blind
headman met the difficulty of expense in his village by getting the companies of believers
to cultivate together in their spare time about three acres of land. His object was to associate
religion and agriculture and so to dignify farming in the eyes of young men. He also wished
to provide an object lesson in the results of good cultivation. The profits proved to be, as
he anticipated, so considerable as to leave a balance after defraying the cost of the social
gathering. The headman prevailed on the cultivators to keep accurate accounts and they made
plain some unexpected truths: as for example, that a tan of paddy did not need the labour of
a man for more than twenty-three days of ten hours, and that the net income from such an area
was a little more than 16 yen, and that thus the return for a day's labour was 73 sen. It was
demonstrated, therefore, that labour was recompensed very well, and that instead of farming
being "the most unprofitable of industries"--for in Japan as in the West there are sinners
against the light who say this--it was reasonably profitable.

But if rice called for only twenty-three days' labour per tan--nearly all the farmers' land
was paddy--and the whole holding numbered only a few tan, it was also plain that there were
many days in the year when the farmer was not fully employed. From this it was easy to proceed
to the conviction that the available time should be utilised either in secondary employments,
or in, say, draining, which would reduce the quantity of manure needed on the land. So the
farmers began to think about drainage and the means of economising labour. They began to realise
how time was wasted owing to most farmers working not only scattered, but irregularly shaped
pieces of land. So the rice lands were adjusted, and everybody was found to have a trifle more
land than he held before, and the fields were better watered and more easily cultivated. Only
from sixteen to seventeen days' labour instead of twenty-three were now needed per tan[184]
and the crops were increased. There is now no exodus from this progressive village.

Concerning his blindness the headman said that it was more profitable for him to hear than
to see, for by sight "energy might be diverted." He had recited in every prefecture his personal
experience of rural reform. He asserted that while conditions varied in every prefecture, there
was, generally speaking, labour on the land for no more than 200 days in the year. He deplored
the disappearance of some home employments. He did not approve of the condition of things in
the north where women worked as much in the fields as their husbands and brothers. Women were
"so backward and conservative." The biggest obstacles to agricultural progress were old women.
To introduce a secondary industry was to take women from the fields.

I spoke with an agricultural expert, one of whose dicta was that "students at normal schools
who come from town families are not so clever as students from farmers' families." He told
me that 10,000 young men in his county had sworn "to act in the way most fitting to youths
of a military state [sic], to buy and use national products as far as possible and so to promote
national industry."

What was wrong with some farming, according to an official of a county agricultural association
whom I met later, was that the farmers cultivated too intensively. They used too much "artificial."
A prefectural official, speaking of the possibility of extending the cultivated area in Japan,
said that in Ehime there were 6,000 chō which might be made into paddies if money were available.
As to afforestation, 100,000 yen a year, exclusive of salaries, was spent in the prefecture.
As a final piece of statistics he mentioned that whereas ten years before pears were grown
only in a certain island of the prefecture, the production of a single county was now valued
at half a million yen yearly.

I spent a night at a hot spring. It is said that the volume of water is decreasing. What a
situation for a town which lives on a hot spring if the hot-water supply should suddenly stop!
I heard of another hot-spring resort at which the water is gradually cooling: it is warmed
up by secret piping.

I have not troubled my readers with many stories of the jostling of past and present, but I
noticed in an electric street car at Matsuyama a peasant trying to light his pipe with flint
and tinder. As he did not succeed a fellow-passenger offered him a match. He was so inexpert
with it that he still failed to get a light and he had to be handed a cigarette stump.

In riding down to the port in the street car I borrowed for a few moments a schoolboy's English
reader. It seemed rather mawkish. A book of Japanese history which I was also allowed to look
at was full of reproductions of autographs of distinguished men. "They make the impression
very strong," I was told.

FOOTNOTES:

[182] See Appendix XXXVIII.

[183] That is, not only his household but his relatives.

[184] Adding to the 17 days' labour for the rice crop, 13 days' labour for the succeeding barley
crop, the total was 30 days' labour per tan against the general Japan average of 39 days per tan.

THE SOUTH-WEST OF JAPAN

CHAPTER XXVII

UP-COUNTRY ORATORY

(YAMAGUCHI)

I have confidence, which began with hope and strengthens with experience, that humanity is
gaining in the stores of mind.--MEREDITH

The main street of an Inland Sea island we visited was 4 ft. wide. Because it was the eve of
a festival the old folk were at home "observing their taboo." The islander who had been the
first among the inhabitants to visit a foreign country was only fifty. The local policeman
made us a gift of pears when we left.

At another primitive island querns were in use and "ordinary families" were "only beginning
to indulge in tombstones." In contrast with this, the constable told us that a small condensed-milk
factory had been started. (This constable was a fine, dignified-looking fellow, but so poor
that his toes were showing through his blue cloth tabi.) The condensed-milk factory must have
been responsible for some surprises to the cows when they were first milked in its interests.
I heard a tale of the first milking of an elderly cow. She had ploughed paddies, carried hay
and other things and had drawn a cart. But it took five men and a woman to persuade her that
to be milked into a clay pot was a reasonable thing.

The third island we explored lies in such a situation in the Inland Sea that sailing ships
used to be glad to shelter under it while waiting for a favourable wind. Someone had the evil
thought of providing it with prostitutes, and, until steam began to take the place of sails,
the number of these women established in the island was large. Even now, although the whole
population numbers only a hundred families, there are thirty women of bad character. These
poor creatures were conspicuous because of their bright clothing and dewomanised look. A scrutiny
of the islanders old and young yielded the impression that the whole place was suffering from
its peculiar traffic. There were two houses, one for registering the women and the other for
investigating their state of health, and the purpose of the buildings was bluntly proclaimed
on the nameboards at their doors.

When we got out to sea again the newest Japanese battleship doing her trials was pointed out
to me, but I was more interested in a large fishing boat running before the wind. A sturdy
woman was at the helm and her naked young family was sprawling about the craft.

Someone spoke of villagers of the mainland "failing to realise that they now possessed the
privilege of self-government." I was reminded of the pleasant way of the headman of a village
assembly in the Loochoos, Japan's oldest outlying possession. He assembles or used to assemble
his colleagues in his courtyard and appear there with a draft of proposed legislation. They
bowed and departed and the Bill had become an Act.

Although we were already within the territorial waters of Hiroshima prefecture, we determined
not to make the mainland at once but to stay the night at the famous island which is called
both Miyajima (shrine island) and Itsukushima (taboo island), and is considered to be one of
the three most noteworthy sights in Japan. Photographs and drawings of the shrine with its
red colonnades on piles by the shore and its big red torii standing in the sea are as familiar
as representations of Fuji. It used to be the custom to prevent as far as possible births and
deaths occurring on the island. Even now, funerals, dogs and kuruma are prohibited. The iron
lanterns of the shrine and galleries and a hundred more in the pine tree-studded approaches
are undoubtedly "a most magnificent spectacle at full tide on a moonless night"; but what of
the subservience to the profitable foreign tourist seen in this shrine notice?--

Zori (straw sandals), geta (wooden pattens) and all footgear except shoes and boots are forbidden.

One is attracted by the idea of listening to music and watching dances which came from afar
in the seventh or eighth centuries, but the business-like tariff,

  Ordinary music, 12 sen to 5 yen,
  Special music and dance, 10 yen and upwards,
  Lighting all lanterns, 9 yen,

is calculated to take one out of the atmosphere of Hearn's dreams. The deities of the shrine
get along as best they can with the raucous sirens of the tourist steamers, the din of the
motor boats and the boom of the big guns which are hidden at the back of the island and make
of Miyajima and its vicinity "a strategic zone" in which photography, sketching or the too
assiduous use of a notebook is forbidden. Alas, I had myself arrived in a steamer which blew
its siren loudly, and in the morning I crossed from the holy isle to the mainland in a motor
launch.

The name of Yamaguchi prefecture, which is at the extreme end of the mainland and has the sea
to the south, the east and the north, is not so familiar as the name of its port, Shimoneseki.
It was mentioned to me that the farmers of Yamaguchi worked a smaller number of days than in
Ehime, possibly only a hundred in the year. The comment of my companion, who had visited a
great deal of rural Japan, was that 150 full days' work was the average for the whole country.[185]

I was told that here as elsewhere there was an unsound tendency to turn sericulture from a
secondary into a primary industry. "Experts are not always expert," confessed an official.
"Our farmers have had bitter experience. Experts come who have learnt only from books or in
other districts, so they give unsuitable counsel. Then they leave the prefecture for other
posts before the results of their unwisdom are apparent."

The same official told me of a "little famine" in one county which had imprudently concentrated
its attention on the production of grape fruit to the annual value of about a million yen.
When a storm came one spring there was almost a total loss. "The river and the sea were covered
with fruit, fishing was interfered with, and the county town complained of the smell of the
rotting fruit." It seems that many of the suffering orange growers were samurai who found fruit
farming a more gentlemanly pursuit than the management of paddies. Like rural amateurs everywhere,
"some of them would do better if they knew more about the working of the land."

Rice was being assailed by a pest which survived in the straw stack and had done damage in
the prefecture to the amount of 30,000 yen.

In this prefecture and two others during our tour my companion delivered addresses to farmers
under the auspices of the National Agricultural Association. The burden of his talk was their
duty as agriculturists in the new conditions which were opening for the nation. His three audiences
numbered about 700, 1,000 and 1,500. They were composed largely of picked men. At the first
gathering the audience squatted; at the next chairs were provided; at the third there were
school forms with backs. What I particularly noticed was the easy-going way in which the meetings
were conducted. No gathering began exactly at the time announced, although one of the audiences
had been encouraged to be in time by the promise of a gift of mottoes to the first hundred
arrivals. At each meeting the Governor of the prefecture was the first speaker. At one meeting
the Governor arrived about 8.30 a.m., made his speech and departed. When my friend had been
introduced to various people in the anteroom, had drunk tea and had smoked and chatted a little,
he was taken to the platform half an hour or three quarters after the conclusion of the Governor's
speech. Nothing had happened at the meeting in the interval. The idea was that the wait would
help the audience's digestion of the speech it had had and the speech it was going to have.
There was no formal introduction of the orator. He just mounted the platform and spoke for
two hours.

At the second meeting the Governor awaited our arrival but "went on" alone. The star speaker
meanwhile refreshed himself in the anteroom with tea, tobacco and conversation as before. In
a few minutes the Governor, having done his turn, rejoined us, and my friend proceeded to the
meeting to deliver his speech, the Governor taking his departure.

At the third meeting the Governor and the speaker of the day did enter the hall together, but
before the Governor had finished his introductory harangue my companion took himself off to
the anteroom to refresh himself with a cigar and a chat. When the Governor concluded and returned
to the anteroom there was conversation for a few minutes, and then my friend and his Excellency
went into the meeting together. This time the Governor stayed to the end.

In his three speeches my friend said many moving things and his audiences were appreciative.
But no one presumed to interrupt with applause. At the end, however, there was a hearty round
of hand-clapping, now a general custom at public gatherings. On the conclusion of each of his
addresses the orator stepped down from the platform and made off to the hall, for no one dreamt
of asking questions. When he was gone an official expressed the thanks of the audience and
there was another round of applause. Then everybody connected with the arrangement of the meeting
gathered in the anteroom and one after the other made appreciative speeches and bows. I marvelled
at the orator's toughness. Before he went on the platform he had been pestered with unending
introductions and beset by conversation. But I do not know that my friend felt any strain.
Nor did the fashion in which the speakers wandered on and off the platform, and thus, according
to our notions, did their utmost to damp the enthusiasm of the meetings, seem to have any such
effect. Once in an oculist's consulting clinic in Tokyo I was struck by the fact that when
water was squirted into the eyes of a succession of patients of both sexes and various ages,
they did not wince as Western people would have done.

I was told that school fees go up a little when the price of rice is high; also of the "negatively
good" effects of young men's associations. During the period of our tour efforts were being
made to systematise these organisations. The Department of Agriculture wanted a farmer at the
head of each society, the War Office an ex-soldier. There can be no doubt that the militarists
have been doing their best to give the societies the mental attitude of the army.

In the country we were entering, the horse had taken the place of the ox as the beast of burden.
Two men of some authority in the prefecture agreed that it was difficult to think of tracts
in the south-west that would be suitable for cattle grazing. There was certainly no "square
ri where the price of land was low enough to keep sheep." As to cattle breeding and forestry,
one of them must give way. It was necessary to keep immense areas under evergreen wood for
the defence of the country against floods. With regard to the areas available for afforestation,
for cattle keeping and for cultivation respectively, it was necessary to be on one's guard
against "experts" who were disposed to claim all available land for their specialties.

When we took to an automobile for the first stage of our long journey through Yamaguchi and
Shimane--the railway came no farther than the city of Yamaguchi--I noticed that just as the
bridges are often without parapets, the roads winding round the cliffs were, as in Fukushima,
unprotected by wall or rail. This was due, no doubt, to considerations of economy, to a widely
diffused sense of responsibility which makes people look after their own safety, and also,
in some degree, to stout Japanese nerves. That our driver's nerves were sound enough was shown
by the speed at which he drove the heavy car round sharp corners and down slippery descents
where we should have dropped a few hundred feet had we gone over.

At our first stopping-place I saw a photograph showing a Shinshu priest engaged with the girl
pupils of a Buddhist school in tree planting. Our talk here was about the low incomes on which
people contrive to live. A little more than a quarter of a century ago the family of a friend
of mine, now of high rank, was living in a county town on 5 yen a month! There were two adults
and three children. Rent was 1.20 yen and rice came to 1.80 yen. Even to-day an ex-Minister
may have only 1,500 yen a year. Many ex-Governors are living quietly in villages. We went to
call upon one of them who was getting great satisfaction out of his few tan. Among other things
he told us was that there were five doctors and one midwife in the community. These doctors
do not possess a Tokyo qualification. They have qualified by being taught by their fathers
or by some other practitioner, and they are entitled to practise in their own village and in,
perhaps, a neighbouring one.

It was thoughtless of me, after inquiring about the doctors, to ask about the gravedigger.
I was told that when there was no member of a "special tribe" available it was the duty of
neighbours to dig graves. A community's displeasure was marked by neighbours refraining from
helping to dig an unpopular person's grave. (One might have expected to hear that such a grave
would be dug with alacrity.) Families which had run counter to public opinion had had to "apologise"
before they could get neighbourly help at the burial of their dead.

Only one family in the village, I learnt from the headman, was being helped from public funds.
This family consisted of an old man and his daughter, who, owing to the attendance her father
required, could not go out to work. The village provided a small house and three pints of rice
daily. The headman in his private capacity gave the girl, with the assistance of some friends,
straw rope-making to do and paid a somewhat higher price than is usual.

Of last year's births in the village 10 per cent. had been legally and 5 per cent. actually
illegitimate. Four or five births had occurred a few months after marriage.

We ate our lunch in the headman's room in the village office. Hanging from the ceiling was
a sealed envelope to be opened on receipt of a telegram. Some member of the village staff always
slept in that room. The envelope contained instructions to be acted upon if mobilisation took
place.

When we had gone on some distance I stopped to watch a farmer's wife and daughter threshing
in a barn by pulling the rice through a row of steel teeth, the simple form of threshing implement
which is seen in slightly different patterns all over Japan. (It is the successor of a contrivance
of bamboo stakes.) The women told me that one person could thresh fourteen bushels a day. The
implement cost 2-1/2 yen from travelling vendors but only 1-1/2 yen from the co-operative society.
While we talked the farmer appeared. I apologised to him for unwittingly stepping on the threshold
of the barn--that is, the grooved timber in which the sliding doors run. It is considered to
be an insult to the head of the house to tread on the threshold as in some way "standing on
the householder's head."

This man had a bamboo plantation, and he told me, in reply to a question, that the bamboo would
shoot up at the rate of more than a foot in twenty-four hours. (During the month in which this
is dictated I have measured the growth of a shoot of a Dorothy Perkins climber and find that
it averages about quarter of an inch in twenty-four hours.)

FOOTNOTES:

[185] See Appendix XII.

CHAPTER XXVIII

MEN, DOGS AND SWEET POTATOES

(SHIMANE)

Nothing but omniscience could suffice to answer all the questions implicitly raised.--J.G. FRAZER

When we descended from the hills we were in Shimane, a long, narrow, coastwise prefecture through
which one travels over a succession of heights to the capital, Matsue, situated at the far
end. Two-thirds of the journey must be made on foot and by kuruma.[186] Some talk by the way
was about the farmers going five or six miles daily to the hills to cut grass for their "cattle,"
the average number of cattle per farmer being 1.3 hereabouts. It seemed strange to see buckwheat
at the flowering stage reached by the crops seen in Fukushima several months before. The explanation
was that buckwheat is sown both in spring and autumn.

In the old days notable samurai, fugitives from Tokyo, had kept themselves secluded in the
rooms we occupied at Yamaguchi. In Shimane we had small plain low-ceiled rooms in which daimyos
had been accommodated. Not here alone had I evidences of the simplicity of the life of Old Japan.

I was wakened in the morning by the voice of a woman earnestly praying. She stood in the yard
of the house opposite and faced first in one direction and then in another. A friend of mine
once stayed overnight at an inn on the river at Kyoto. In the morning he saw several men and
a considerable number of women praying by the waterside. They were the keepers and inmates
of houses of ill-fame. The old Shinto idea was that prayers might be made anywhere at other
times than festivals, for the god was at the shrine at festivals only. Nowadays some old men
go to the shrine every morning, just as many old women are seen at the Buddhist temples daily.
Half the visitors to a Shinto shrine, an educated man assured me, may pray, but in the case
of the other half the "worship" is "no more than a motion of respect." My friend told me that
when he prayed at a shrine his prayer was for his children's or his parents' health.

At a county town I found a library of 4,000 volumes, largely an inheritance from the feudal
regime. Wherever I went I could not but note the cluster of readers at the open fronts of bookshops.[187]

On our second day's journey in Shimane I had a kuruma with wooden wheels, and in the hills
the day after we passed a man kneeling in a kago, the old-fashioned litter. When we took to
a basha we discovered that, owing to the roughness of the road, we had a driver for each of
our two horses. We had also an agile lad who hung on first to one part and then another of
the vehicle and seemed to be essential in some way to its successful management. The head of
the hatless chief driver was shaved absolutely smooth.

It was a rare thing for a foreigner to pass this way. My companion frequently told me that
he had difficulty in understanding what people said.

We saw an extinct volcano called "Green Field Mountain." There was not a tree on it and it
was said never to have possessed any. The whole surface was closely cut, the patches cut at
different periods showing up in rectangular strips of varying shades. Wherever the hills were
treeless and too steep for cultivation they were carefully cut for fodder. In cultivable places
houses were standing on the minimum of ground. More than once we had a view of a characteristic
piece of scenery, a dashing stream seen through a clump of bamboo.

When our basha stopped for the feeding of the horses, they had a tub of mixture composed of
boiled naked barley, rice chaff, chopped straw and chopped green stuff. I noticed near the
inn a doll in a tree. It had been put there by children who believe that they can secure by
so doing a fine day for an outing. When we started again we met with a company of strolling
players: a man, his wife and two girls, all with clever faces. We also saw several peasant
anglers fishing or going home with their catch. A licence available from July to December cost
50 sen.

At a shop I made a note of its signs, the usual strips of white wood about 8 ins. by 3, nailed
up perpendicularly, with the inscriptions written in black. One sign was the announcement of
the name and address of the householder, which must be shown on every Japanese house. A second
stated that the place was licensed as a shop, a third that the householder's wife was licensed
to keep an inn, a fourth that the householder was a cocoon merchant, a fifth that he was a
member of the co-operative credit society, a sixth that he belonged to the Red Cross Society,
a seventh that his wife was a member of the Patriotic Women's Society,[188] the eighth, ninth
and tenth that the shopkeeper was an adherent of a certain Shinto shrine, a member of a Shinto
organisation and had visited three shrines and made donations to them. An eleventh board proclaimed
that he was of the Zen sect of Buddhism. Finally, there was a box in which was stored the charms
from various shrines.

We passed a company of villagers working on the road for the local authority. The labourers
were chiefly old people and they were taking their task very easily. Farther along the road
men and women were working singly. It seemed that the labourers belonged to families which,
instead of paying rates, did a bit of roadmending. The work was done when they had time to spare.

For some time we had been in a part of the country in which the ridges of the houses were of
tiles. At an earlier stage of our journey they had been either of straw or of earth with flowers
or shrubs growing in it. The shiny, red-brown tiles give place elsewhere to a slate-coloured
variety. The surface of all of these tiles is so smooth that they are unlikely to change their
hard tint for years. Meanwhile they give the villages a look of newness. Their use is spreading
rapidly. Shiny though the tiles may be, one cannot but admire the neat way in which they interlock.
One day when I wondered about the cost involved in recovering roofs with these tiles, a woman
worker who overheard me promptly said that, reckoning tiles and labour, the cost was 60 or
70 sen per 22 tiles. In the old days tiled porticoes were forbidden to the commonalty. They
were allowed only to daimyos who also used exclusively the arm rests which every visitor to
an inn may now command. Besides arm rests I have frequently had kneeling cushions of the white
brocade formerly used only for the zabuton of Buddhist priests.

In the county through which we were passing the fine water grass, called i, used for mat making,
is grown on an area of about 78 chō. It is sown in seed beds like rice and is transplanted
into inferior paddies in September. (The grass is better grown in Hiroshima and Okayama.)

I saw a beautiful tree in red blossom. The name given to it is "monkey slip," because of the
smoothness of its skin, which recalled the name of that very different ornament of suburban
gardens, "monkey puzzle."

During this journey we recovered something of the conditions of old-time travel. There were
chats by the way and conferences at the inn in the evening and in the morning concerning distances,
the kind of vehicles available, the character of their drivers, the charges, the condition
of the road, the probable weather and the places at which satisfactory accommodation might
be had. What was different from the old days was that at every stopping-place but one we had
electric light. Part of our journey was done in a small motor bus lighted by electricity. Like
the automobile we had hired a day or two before, it was driven--by two young men in blue cotton
tights--at too high a speed considering the narrowness and curliness of the roads by which
we crossed the passes. The roads are kept in reasonably good condition, but they were made
for hand cart and kuruma traffic.

We passed an island on which I was told there were a dozen houses. When a death occurs a beacon
fire is made and a priest on the mainland conducts a funeral ceremony. By the custom of the
island it is forbidden to increase the number of the houses, so presumably several families
live together. In the mountain communities of the mainland, where the number of houses is also
restricted, it is usual for only the eldest brother to be allowed to marry. The children of
younger brothers are brought up in the families of their mothers.

We passed at one of the fishing hamlets the wreck of a Russian cruiser which came ashore after
the battle of Tsushima. Two boat derricks from the cruiser served as gate posts at the entrance
of the school playground.

A familiar sight on a country road is the itinerant medicine vendor. He or his employer believes
in pushing business by means of an impressive outfit. One typical cure-all seller, who had
his medicines in a shiny bag slung over his shoulders, wore yellow shoes, cotton drawers, a
frock coat, a peaked cap with three gold stripes, and a mysterious badge. On his hands he had
white cotton gloves and as he walked he played a concertina. A common practice is to leave
with housewives a bag of medicines without charge. Next year another call is made, when the
pills and what not which have been used are paid for and a new bag is exchanged for the old one.

The use of dogs to help to draw kuruma is forbidden in some prefectures, but in three stages
of our journey in Shimane we had the aid of robust dogs. During this period, however, I saw,
attached to kuruma we passed, three dogs which did not seem up to their work. Dogs suffer when
used for draught purposes because their chests are not adapted for pulling and because the
pads of their feet get tender. The animals we had were treated well. Each kuruma had a cord,
with a hook at the end, attached to it; and this hook was slipped into a ring on the dog's
harness. The dogs were released when we went downhill and usually on the level. Several times
during each run, when we came to a stream or a pond or even a ditch, the dogs were released
for a bathe. They invariably leapt into the water, drank moderately, and then, if the water
was too shallow for swimming, sat down in it and then lay down. Sometimes a dog temporarily
at liberty would find on his own account a small water hole, and it was comical to see him
taking a sitz bath in it. When the sun was hot a dog would sometimes be retained on his cord
when not pulling in order that he might trot along in the shade below the kuruma. The dog of
the kuruma following mine usually managed when pulling to take advantage of the shade thrown
by my vehicle. A kurumaya told me that he had given 8 yen for his dog. Dogs were sometimes
sold for from 10 to 15 yen. The difficulty was to get a dog that had good feet and would pull.
The dogs I saw were all mongrels with sometimes a retriever, bloodhound or Great Dane strain.

I made enquiries about another county town library. There were 18,000 volumes of which 300
consisted of European books and 600 of bound magazines. The annual expenditure on books, and
I presume magazines, was 600 yen.

We passed a "special tribe" hamlet. Here the Eta were devoting themselves to tanning and bamboo
work. I was told of other "peculiar people" called Hachia, also of a hawker-beggar class which
sells small things of brass or bamboo or travels with performing monkeys.

Water from hot springs is piped long distances in water pipes made of bamboo trunks, the ends
of which are pushed into one another. A turn is secured by running two pipes at the angle required
into a block of wood which has been bored to fit.

When we got down to the sand dunes there were windbreaks, 10 or 15 ft. high, made of closely
planted pines cut flat at the top. Elsewhere I saw such windbreaks 30 ft. high. On the telegraph
wires there were big spiders' webs about 4 ft. in diameter.

As we sped through a village my attention was attracted by a funeral feast. The pushed-back
shoji showed about a dozen men sitting in a circle eating and drinking. Women were waiting
on them. At the back of the room, making part of the circle, was the square coffin covered
by a white canopy.

While passing a Buddhist temple I heard the sound of preaching. It might have been a voice
from a church or chapel at home.

Shortly afterwards I came on a memorial to the man who introduced the sweet potato into the
locality 150 years before. This was the first of many sweet-potato memorials which I encountered
in the prefecture and elsewhere. Sometimes there were offerings before the monuments. Occasionally
the memorial took the form of a stone cut in the shape of a potato. There is a great exportation
of sweet potatoes--sliced and dried until they are brittle--to the north of Japan where the
tuber cannot be cultivated.[189]

While we rested at the house of a friend of my companion we spoke of emigration. There are
four or five emigration companies, and it is an interesting question just how much emigration
is due to the initiative of the emigrants themselves and how much to the activity of the companies.
The chief reason which induces emigrants to go to South America is that, under the contract
system, they get twice as much money as they would obtain, say, in Formosa.[190]

Our host did not remember any foreigner visiting his village since his boyhood, though it is
on the main road. It took nearly four days for a Tokyo newspaper to arrive. This region is
so little known that when a resident mentioned it in Tokyo he was sometimes asked if it was
in Hokkaido.

I was interested to see how many villages had erected monuments to young men who had won distinction
away from home as wrestlers.

I had often noticed bulls drawing carts and behaving as sedately as donkeys, but it was new
to see a bull tethered at the roadside with children playing round it. Why are the Japanese
bulls so friendly?

In the mountainous regions we passed through I saw several paddies no bigger than a hearthrug.
At one spot a land crab scurried across the road. It was red in colour and about 2-1/2 ins. long.

At a village office the headman's gossip was that priests had been forbidden by the prefecture
to interfere in elections. We looked through the expenses of the village agricultural association.
For a lecture series 5 yen a month was being paid. Then there had been an expenditure by way
of subsidising a children's campaign against insects preying on rice. For ten of the little
clusters of eggs one may see on the backs of leaves 4 rin was paid, while for 10 moths the
reward was 2 rin. The association spent a further 10 yen on helping young people to attend
lectures at a distance. The commune in which those things had been done numbered 3,100 people.
There had been two police offences during the year, but both offenders were strangers to the
locality.

In a cutting which was being made for the new railway, girl labourers were steering their trucks
of soil down a half-mile descent and singing as they made the exhilarating run. The building
of a railway through a closely cultivated and closely populated country involves the destruction
of a large amount of fertile land and the rebuilding of many houses. The area of agricultural
land taken during the preceding and present reigns, not only for railways and railway stations
but for roads, barracks, schools and other public buildings, has been enormous. "The owner
of land removed from cultivation may seem to do well by turning his property into cash," a
man said to me. "He may also profit to some extent while the railway is building by the jobs
he is able to do for the contractor, with the assistance of his family and his horse or bull;
but afterwards he has often to seek another way of earning his living than farming."

We neared railhead on a market day and many folk in their best were walking along the roads.
Of fourteen umbrellas used as parasols to keep off the sun that I counted one only was of the
Japanese paper sort; all the others were black silk on steel ribs in "foreign style" except
for a crude embroidery on the silk.

When we got into the town it was as much as our kurumaya could do to move through the dense
crowd of rustics in front of booths and shops. Once more I was impressed by the imperturbability
and natural courtesy of the people. At the station quite a number of farmers and their families
had assembled, not to travel by the train but to see it start.

During the short journey by train I noticed lagoons in which fish were artificially fed. At
an agricultural experiment station in the place at which we alighted there were two specimen
windmills set up to show farmers who were fortunate enough to have ammonia water on their land
the cheapest means of raising it for their paddies. The tendency here as elsewhere was to apply
too much of the ammonia water. All rubbish on this extensive experiment station was carefully
burnt under cover in order to demonstrate the importance not only of getting all the potash
possible but of preserving it when obtained.

Farmers who are without secondary industries are short of cash except at the times when barley,
rice and cocoons are sold, and in certain places they seem to have taken to saving money on
salt. An old man told us with tears in his eyes how he had protested to his neighbours against
the tendency to do without salt. An excuse for attempting to save on salt, besides the economical
one, was the size of the salt cubes. Neighbours clubbed together to buy a cube, and thus a
family, when it had finished its share, had to wait until the neighbours had disposed of theirs
and market day came round.[191]

I saw a monument erected to the memory of "a good farmer" who had planted a wood and developed
irrigation.

We made a stay at the spot where, on a forest-clad hill overlooking the sea, there stands in
utter simplicity the great shrine of Izumo. The customary collection of shops and hotels clustering
at the town end of the avenue of torii cannot impair the impression which is made on the alien
beholder by this shrine in the purest style of Shinto architecture. In the month in which we
arrived at Izumo the deities are believed to gather there. Before the shrine the Japanese visitor
makes his obeisance and his offering at the precise spot--four places are marked--to which
his rank permits him to advance. (This inscription may be read: "Common people at the doorway.")
The estimate which an official gave me of the number of visitors last year, 40,000, bore no
relation to the "quarter of a million" of the guide book. But it had been a bad year for farmers.
Forty-seven geisha, who had reported the previous year that they had received 35,000 yen--there
is no limit to what is tabulated in Japan--now reported that they had gained only half that
sum in twelve months, "the price of cocoons being so low that even well-to-do farmers could
not come." I noticed that there was a clock let into one of the granite votive pillars of the
avenue along which one walks from the town to the shrine. As I glanced at the clock it happened
that the sound of children's voices reached me from a primary school. I wondered what time
and modern education, which have brought such changes in Japan, might make of it all.

FOOTNOTES:

[186] The railway has now been extended in the direction of Yamaguchi.

[187] See Appendix LI.

[188] Protests have been made against the way in which the country people are dunned for subscriptions
to these semi-official organisations. A high agricultural authority has stated that in Nagano
the farmers' taxes and subscriptions to the Red Cross and Patriotic Women Societies are from
65 to 70 per cent. of their expenditure as against 30 to 35 per cent. spent on outlay other
than food and clothing.

[189] Satsuma-imo is sweet potato. Our potato is called jaga-imo or bareisho. Imo is the general
name.

[190] See Appendix LII.

[191] The Salt Monopoly profits are estimated at 314,204 yen for 1920-21.

CHAPTER XXIX

FRIENDS OF LAFCADIO HEARN

(SHIMANE, TOTTORI AND HYOGO)

Those who suffer learn, those who love know.--MRS. HAVELOCK ELLIS

At Matsue, with which the name of Lafcadio Hearn will always be associated, I chanced to arrive
on the anniversary of his death. His local admirers were holding a memorial meeting. As a foreigner
I was honoured with a request to attend. First, however, I had the chance of visiting Hearn's
house. Matsue was the first place at which Hearn lived. He always remembered it and at last
came back there to marry. Except that a pond has been filled up--no doubt to reduce the number
of mosquitoes--the garden of his house is little changed.

The most interesting feature of the meeting was old pupils' grateful recollections of Hearn,
the middle-school teacher. The gathering was held in a room belonging to the town library in
the prefectural grounds, but neither the Governor nor the mayor was present. A sympathetic
speech was made by a chance visitor to the town, the secretary-general to the House of Peers.
He recalled the antagonism which the young men at Tokyo University, himself among them, felt
towards the odd figure of Hearn--he had a terribly strained eye and wore a monocle--when he
became a professor, and how very soon he gained the confidence and regard of the class.

I had often wondered that there was no Japanese memorial to Hearn, and when I rose to speak
I said so. I added that it was rare to meet a Japanese who had any understanding of how much
Hearn had done in forming the conception of Japan possessed by thousands of Europeans and Americans.
The fault in so many books about Japan, I went on, was not that their "facts" were wrong. What
was wrong was their authors' attitude of mind. I had heard Japanese say that Hearn was "too
poetical" and that some of his inferences were "inaccurate." That was as might be. What mattered
was that the mental attitude of Hearn was so largely right. He did not approach Japan as a
mere "fact" collector or as a superior person. What he brought to the country was the humble,
studious, imaginative, sympathetic attitude; and it was only by men and women of his rare type
that peoples were interpreted one to the other.

In that free-and-easy way in which meetings are conducted in Japan it was permissible for us
to leave after another speech had been made. The proceedings were interrupted while the promoters
of the gathering showed us a collection of books and memorials of Hearn, arranged under a large
portrait, and accompanied us to the door of the hall. I do not recall during the time I was
in Japan any other public gathering in honour of Hearn, and I met several prominent men who
had either never heard his name or knew nothing of the far-reaching influence of his books.
But some months after this Matsue meeting there was included among the Coronation honours a
posthumous distinction for Hearn--"fourth rank of the junior grade."[192]

During this journey I attended a dinner of officials and leading agriculturists and had the
odd sensation of making a short after-dinner speech on my knees. At such a dinner the guests
kneel on cushions ranged round the four walls of the room, and each man has a low lacquer table
to himself, and a geisha to wait on him. When the geisha is not bringing in new dishes or replenishing
the saké bottle, she kneels before the table and chatters entertainingly. The governors of
the feast visit the guests of honour and drink with them. In the same way a guest drinks with
his neighbour and with his attendant geisha. I have a vivid memory of a grave and elderly dignitary
who at the merry stage of such a function capered the whole length of the room with his kneeling-cushion
balanced on the top of his head. There is a growing temperance movement in Japan but a teetotaller
is still something of an oddity. My abstinence from saké was frequently supposed to be the
result of a vow.

Although the average geisha may be inane in her patter and have little more than conventional
grace and charm, I have been waited on by girls who added real mental celerity, wit and a power
of skilful mimicry to that elusive and seductive quality that accounts for the impregnable
position of their class. At one dinner impersonations in both the comic and the tragic vein
were given by a girl of unmistakable genius. Frequently a plain, elderly geisha will display
unsuspected mimetic ability. Alas, behind the merry laugh and sprightliness of the girls who
adorn a feast lurks a skeleton. One is haunted by thoughts of the future of a large proportion
of these butterflies. No doubt most foreigners generalise too freely in identifying the professions
of geisha and joro. In the present organisation of society some geisha play a legitimate rôle.
They gain in the career for which they have laboriously trained an outlet for the expression
of artistic and social gifts which would have been denied them in domestic life. At the same
time the degrading character of the life led by many geisha cannot be doubted. Apart from every
other consideration the temptation to drink is great. The opening of new avenues to feminine
ability, the enlarged opportunities of education and self-respect and the increasing opening
for women on the stage--from which women have been excluded hitherto--must have their effect
in turning the minds of girls of wit and originality to other means of earning a living than
the morally and physically hazardous profession of the geisha.

When we left Matsue by steamer on our way to Tottori prefecture I saw middle-school eights
at practice. An agriculturist told me of the custom of giving holidays to oxen and horses.
The villagers carefully brush their animals, decorate them and lead them to pastures where,
tethered to rings attached to a long rope, "they may graze together pleasantly." One of the
islands we visited bore the name of the giant radish, Daikon, which is itself a corruption
of the word for octopus. The island devoted itself mainly to the growing of peonies and ginseng.
The ginseng is largely exported to China and Korea, but there is a certain consumption in Japan.
Ginseng is sometimes chewed, but is generally soaked, the liquid being drunk. Ginseng is popularly
supposed to be an invigorant, and Japanese doctors in Korea have lately declared that it has
some value. The root is costly, hence the proverb about eating ginseng and hanging oneself,
i.e. getting into debt.

In walking across the island I passed a forlorn little shrine. It was merely a rough shed with
a wide shelf at the back, on which stood a row of worn and dusty figures, decked with the clothes
of children whose recovery was supposed to have been due to their influence. It was raining
and the shelter was full of children playing in the company of an old crone with a baby on
her back. Further on in the village I came across a new public bath. The price of admission
was one sen, children half price.

A small port was pointed out to me as being open to foreign trade. Everybody is not aware that
in Japan there is a restriction upon foreign shipping except at sixty specified places.[193]
The reason given for the restriction is the unprofitableness of custom houses at small places.
One day, perhaps, the world will wake up to the inconvenience and financial burden imposed
by the custom-house system of raising revenue.

We stayed the night at a little place at the eastern extremity of the Shimane promontory where
there is a shrine and no cultivation of any sort is allowed "for fear of defilement." Waste
products are taken away by boat. I marked a contrast between theoretical and practical holiness.
Our inn overlooked a special landing-place where, because a "sacred boat" from the shrine is
launched there, a notice had been put up forbidding the throwing of rubbish into the sea. A
few minutes after the board had been pointed out to me I saw an old man cast a considerable
mass of rubbish into the water not six feet away from it. When we visited the shrine three
pilgrims were at their devotions. The next morning when our steamer left and the chief priest
of the shrine was bidding us adieu my attention was attracted by loud conversation in the second
storey of an inn, the shoji of which were open. Our pilgrims, two of whom were bald, had spent
the night at an inn of bad character and were now in the company of prostitutes in the sight
of all men. One pilgrim had a girl on his knee, another was himself on a girl's knee and a
third had his arm round a girl's neck. In this "sacred" place of 2,000 inhabitants there were
forty "double license" girls, five being natives. A few years ago all the girls were natives.
A "double license" girl means one who is licensed both as a geisha and a prostitute. The plan
of issuing "double licenses" is adopted at Kyoto and elsewhere. As to the pilgrims to whom
I have referred, someone quoted to me the saying, "It is only half a pilgrimage going to the
shrine without seeing the girls."

Returning to the custom of launching a sacred boat it is not without significance that many
Japanese deities have some connection with the sea. Even in the case of the deities of shrines
a long way from the sea the ceremony of "going down to the sea" is sometimes observed. Sand
and sea water are sent for in order to be mixed with the water used to cleanse the car in which
the figure of the deity is drawn through the streets.

The social and financial position of tenants was illustrated by an incident at an inn. As the
maid came from the country I asked her if her father were a tenant or an owner. My companion
interrupted to tell me that the question was not judiciously framed because the girl would
"think it a disgrace to own that her father was a tenant." The name of a tenant used long ago
to be "water drinker." This waiting-maid was a good-looking and rather clever girl. I was dismayed
when my friend told me that she had said to him quite simply that she had thoughts of becoming
a joro. She thought it would be a "more interesting life."

When we reached Tottori prefecture we found ourselves in a country which grows more cotton
than any other. Japanese cotton (grown on about 400 chō) is unsuitable for manufacture into
thread, but because of its elasticity is considered to be valuable for the padding of winter
clothing and for futon and zabuton. Their softness is maintained by daily sunning.

At a county office I noted that the persons who were receiving relief were classified as follows:
Illness, 26; cripples, 17; old age, 16; schoolboys, 12; infancy, 1.

In the course of our journey a Shinto priest was pointed out to me as observing the priestly
taboo by refusing tea and cake. I noticed, however, that he smoked. I was told that when he
was in Tokyo he purified himself in the sea even in midwinter. I did not like his appearance.
Nor for the matter of that was I impressed by the countenances of some Buddhist priests I encountered
in the train from time to time. "Thinking always of money," someone said. But every now and
again I saw fine priestly faces.

I have noted down very little in regard to the crops and the countryside in Tottori. Things
seemed very much the same as I had seen in Shimane. At an agricultural show in the city of
Tottori the varieties of yam and taro were so numerous as to deceive the average Westerner
into believing that he was seeing the roots of different kinds of plants. A feature of the
show was a large realistic model of a rice field with two life-size figures.

In the evening I talked with two distinguished men until a late hour. "We are not a metaphysical
people," one of them said. "Nor were our forefathers as religious as some students may suppose.
Those who went before us gave to the Buddhist shrine and even worshipped there, but their daily
life and their religion had no close connection. We did not define religion closely. Religion
has phases according to the degree of public instruction. Our religion has had more to do with
propitiation and good fortune than with morality. If you had come here a century ago you would
have been unable to find even then religion after another pattern. If it be said that a man
must be religious in order to be good the person who says so does not look about him. I am
not afraid to say that our people are good as a result of long training in good behaviour.
Their good character is due to the same causes as the freedom from rowdiness which may be marked
in our crowds."

"What is wanted in the villages," said the other personage, "is one good personality in each."
I said that the young men's association seemed to me to be often a dull thing, chiefly indeed
a mechanism by means of which serious persons in a village got the young men to work overtime.
"Yes," was the response, "the old men make the young fellows work."

The first speaker said that there had been three watchwords for the rural districts. "There
was Industrialisation and Increase of Production. There was Public Spirit and Public Welfare.
There was The Shinto Shrine the Centre of the Village. We have a certain conception of a model
village, but perhaps some hypocrisy may mingle with it. They say that the village with well-kept
Buddhist and Shinto shrines is generally a good village."

"In other words," I ventured, "the village where there is some non-material feeling."

The rejoinder was: "Western religion is too high, and, I fear, inapplicable to our life. It
may be that we are too easily contented. But there are nearly 60 millions of us. I do not know
that we feel a need or have a vacant place for religion. There is certainly not much hope for
an increase of the influence of Buddhism."

As we went along in the train I was told that on a sixth of the rice area in Tottori there
had been a loss of 70 per cent. by wind. When a man's harvest loss exceeds this percentage
he is not liable for rates and taxes. A passenger told me about "nursery pasture." This is
a patch of grass in the hills to which a farmer sends his ox to be pastured in common with
the oxen of other farmers under the care of a single herdsman. It is from cattle keeping on
this modest scale that the present beef requirements of the country are largely met.[194]

Although the opinions expressed to me by Governors of prefectures have been frequently recorded
in these pages, I have not felt at liberty to identify more than one of the Excellencies who
were good enough to express their views to me. A friend who knew many Governors offered me
the following criticism, which I thought just: "They are too practical and too much absorbed
in administration to be able to think. Often they read very little after leaving the university.
They have seldom anything to tell you about other than ordinary things, and they seldom show
their hearts. You cannot learn much from Governors who have nothing original to say or are
fearful or live in their frock coats or do not mean to show half their minds or are practising
the old official trick of talking round and round and always evading the point. One fault of
Governors is that they are being continually transferred from prefecture to prefecture. You
have no doubt yourself noticed how often Governors were new to their prefectures. But with
all the faults that our Governors have, there are not a few able, good and kind men among them
and they are not recruited from Parliament but must be members of the Civil Service. One of
the most common words in our political life is genshitsu, 'responsibility for one's own words.'
If Governors fear to assume the responsibility of their own views they are only of a part with
a great deal of the official world."

We turned away from the northern sea coast and struck south in order to cross Japan to the
Inland Sea en route for Kobe and Tokyo.

As we came through Hyogo prefecture my companion pointed to hill after hill which had been
afforested since his youth. One of the things which interested me was the number and the tameness
of the kites which were catching frogs in the paddies.

Before I left Hyogo I had the advantage of a chat with one who for many years past had thought
about the rural situation in Japan generally. He spoke of "the late Professor King's idealising
of the Japanese farmer's condition." He went on: "While King laid stress on the ability to
be self-supporting on a small area he ignored the extent to which many rural people are underfed.
The change in the Meiji era has been a gradual transference from ownership to tenancy. Many
so-called representative farmers have been able to add field to field until they have secured
a substantial property and have ceased to be farmers. An extension of tenancy is to be deplored,
not only because it takes away from the farmer a feeling of independence and of incentive,
but because it creates a parasitic class which in Japan is perhaps even more parasitic than
in the West. A landowner in the West almost invariably realises that he has certain duties.
In Japan a landowner's duties to his neighbourhood and to the State are often imperfectly understood.

"On the other hand the position of the farmer has been very much improved socially. A great
deal of pity bestowed by the casual foreign visitor is wasted. The farmer is accustomed to
extremes of heat and cold and to a bare living and poor shelter. And after all there is a great
deal of happiness in the villages. It is hardly possible to take a day's kuruma ride without
coming on a festival somewhere, and drunkenness has undoubtedly diminished."

I spoke with an old resident about the agricultural advance in the prefecture. "In fifteen
years," he said, "our agricultural production has doubled. As to the non-material condition
of the people, generally speaking the villagers are very shallow in their religion. Not so
long ago officials used to laugh at religion, but I don't know that some of them are not now
changing their point of view. Some of us have thought that, just as we made a Japanese Buddhism,
we might make a Japanese Christianity which would not conflict with our ideas."

FOOTNOTES:

[192] This is, I am officially informed, the highest rank ever bestowed on a foreigner; but
then Hearn was naturalised. In 1921 an appreciation of "Koizumi Yakumo" was included by the
Department of Education in a middle-school textbook. Curiously enough, the fact that Hearn
married a Japanese is overlooked. Owing to the fact that Hearn bought land in Tokyo which has
appreciated in value his family is in comfortable circumstances.

[193] Coastwise traffic is also forbidden to foreign vessels, as is traffic between France
and Algeria to other than French vessels.

[194] See Appendix LIII.

TWO MONTHS IN TEMPLE

CHAPTER XXX

THE LIFE OF THE PEASANTS AND THEIR PRIESTS

(NAGANO)

The condition of the lower orders is the true mark.--JOHNSON

The Buddhist temple in which I lived for about two months stands on high ground in a village
lying about 2,500 ft. above sea-level in the prefecture of Nagano and does not seem to have
been visited by foreigners. It is reached by a road which is little better than a track. No
kuruma are to be found in the district, but there are a few light two-wheeled lorries. Practically
all the traffic is on horseback or on foot. There is a view of the Japanese Alps and of Fuji.

Running through the village[195] is a river. Most of the summer it may be crossed by stepping
stones, but the width of the rocky bed gives some notion of the volume of water which pours
down after rains and on the melting of the snow. Two or three miles up from the village a considerable
amount of water is drawn off into two channels which have been dug, one on either side of the
river, at a gentler slope than that at which the stream flows. The rapid fall of the river
is indicated by the fact that these channels reach the village more than 100 ft. above the
level at which the river itself enters it. The channels, cut as they have been through sharply
sloping banks packed with boulders and big stones, and strengthened throughout by banking,
in order to cope as far as possible with the torrents which rage down the hillside in winter,
represent a vast amount of communal labour. By the side of each channel the excavated earth
and stones have been used to make a path for pack horses. The water which comes down these
channels serves not only for the ordinary uses of the village but for irrigating the rice fields
and for driving the many water wheels, the plashing and groaning of which are heard night and day.

The whole area of the oaza is officially recorded as 800 chō, but the real area may be double,
or even more than that. About 40 per cent. is cultivated either as paddy or as dry land. The
remaining 60 per cent., from which 18 chō may be deducted for house land, is under grass and
wood. Half of this grass and woodland belongs to the oaza and half to private persons. The
grass is mostly couch grass and weeds. In places there is a certain amount of clover and vetch.
Of the 200 families, numbering about 1,700 people, less than a dozen are tenants. Of the others,
a third cultivate their own land and hire some more. The remaining two-thirds cultivate their
own land and hire none. The outstanding crop beyond rice is mulberry. A considerable amount
of millet and buckwheat is also grown.

The village is obviously well off. The signs are: successful sericulture, the large quantity
of rice eaten, the number of well-looking horses (the millet seems to be grown largely for
them, but they also receive beans and wheat boiled), the fact that no attempt is made to collect
the considerable amount of horse manure on the roads, the cared-for appearance of the temple
and shrines, the almost complete absence of tea-houses, the ease with which new land may be
obtained and the contented look of the people.

One does not expect to find in a remote and wholly Buddhist village many other animals than
horses, and in this community the additional live stock consists of ten goats (kept for giving
milk for invalids), two pigs and a number of poultry. A working horse over four years was worth
150 yen. The value of land[196] is to be considered in relation to local standards of value.
It is doubtful if the priest, who seemed to be comfortably off, is in receipt of more than
250 yen a year. The midwife, who belongs to the oldest family and has been trained in Tokyo,
gets from 2 to 2-1/2 yen per case. As new land is always available on the hillsides there is
very little emigration to the towns, but twenty girls are working in the factories in the big
silk-reeling centre twelve miles off. The hillside land which is owned by the village is not
sold but rented to those who want it. To make new paddies is primarily a question of having
enough capital with which to buy the artificial manure required for the crops.

I was given to understand that no one in the village was poor enough to need public help, but
that the school fees of twelve children were paid by the community. This is a system peculiar
to Nagano, which is a progressive prefecture vying with other prefectures to increase the percentage
of school attendance. One of the signs of the well-off character of the village which appears
when one is able to investigate a little is that the place is a favourite haunt of beggars,
who, I am told--every calling is organised--have made it over to the less fortunate members
of their fraternity. The village has enough money to spend to make it worth while for tradesmen
from a distance to open temporary shops every Bon season and at the New Year festival. A man
in an average position may lay out 200 yen on his daughter's wedding. A farmer who knew his
fellow-villagers' position pretty closely said he thought that the position of tenant farmers
was "rather well." In the whole village there might be seventy or eighty householders who had
some debt, but it was justifiable. In an ordinary year about 150 farmers would have something
to lay by after their twelve months' work. Perhaps fifty farmers, if the price of rice or of
cocoons were low, might be unable to save; but ordinarily they would have something in their
pockets. About half the farmers are engaged in sericulture--I noticed cocoons offered at the
shrine. The other half sell their mulberry leaf crop to their neighbours. The village, which
is perhaps 400 years old, is increasing in population by about forty every year. The family
which is said to have founded the village is still largely represented in it.

The village has as many as six fire engines, which can be moved about either on wheels or on
runners according to the weather, and as many look-out ladders and fire-alarm bells. The young
men's association has no fewer than half a dozen buildings, the property of the village. Five
of them are little more than sheds and seem to be used on wet days as nurseries and playrooms
for children. The sixth is the village theatre, playing at which appears to have been abandoned
for some years. Travelling players give their shows where they will. The theatre stands in
a space encircled by large trees opposite the chief shrine of the village. There is also here
a smaller shrine (fox god) and some tombstones.

Before the chief shrine are two large leaden lanterns. At the base of these a considerable
strip of metal has been torn away. This unusual destruction by village lads caused me to make
enquiry. I found that the boys had merely enlarged a hole made by adults. The destruction had
been wrought in order to remove the inscription on the lanterns. It was said that the local
donor had meanly omitted to make the customary gift to the shrine to cover the small expense
of lighting the lanterns on the occasion of festivals. It was the feeling of the villagers,
therefore, that he should not be allowed to blazon his name in connection with a shabby gift.

There is a ceremony about half a dozen times a year at the chief shrine, which is about a century
old. The Shinto priest, who seemed to be a genuine antiquary, was of opinion that the structure
inside the shrine might have been built two hundred years ago. In addition to this chief shrine
and the small shrine near it, there are two other shrines in the village, one in the temple
yard (god of happiness) and the other (horse god) in an open space of its own.

But perhaps the most remarkable thing about the non-material life of this village is the fact
that it contains no fewer than 400 carved stones of a more or less religious character. A few
are Buddhist; some are memorials to priests or teachers; several bear that representation of
a man and a woman facing one another (p. 265) which is one of the oldest mystic emblems; the
majority are devoted apparently to the horse god. Every man who loses a horse erects a stone.
There are two persons in the village who can carve these stones at a cost of about 2 yen. Some
stones which are painted red are dedicated to the fire god. The 400 stones of which I am speaking
do not include grave stones. These are seen everywhere, many of them just by the wayside. Nearly
every family buries in its own ground. Some burial places with stones of many forms dating
back for a long period of years are extremely impressive. At the Bon season the grass on every
burying ground is carefully cut.

All the shop-keepers seem to own their own houses and all but three have some land. There are
three saké shops, two of which sell other things than saké, two general shops, two cake and
sweet shops, two tobacco shops, a lantern shop and a barber. There are eight carpenters, four
stonecutters, five plasterers and wall builders, five woodcutters, two roof makers, two horse
shoers, and in the winter a blacksmith. (The cost of putting on four shoes is 60 sen.) All
these artisans own their own houses and all have land.

As to the health of the village there are two doctors who come every other day. One was qualified
at Chiba and the other at Sendai. They make no charge for advice and the price of medicine
is only 10 sen unless the materials are expensive. I suppose they may receive presents. They
also probably have a piece of land. There is no veterinary surgeon, but one is to be found
in the village which composes the other half of the commune.

A physician who had been born in the village and was staying for a few days with the Buddhist
priest who was my host, thought that 90 per cent. of the villagers ate no meat whatever and
that only 50 or 60 per cent. ate fish, and then only ceremonially, that is at particular times
in the year when it is the custom in Japan to eat fish. The villagers who did eat meat or fish
did not take it oftener than twice or thrice a month. The canned meat and canned fish in the
shops--Japanese brands--were used almost entirely for guests. The doctor expressed the opinion
of most Japanese that "people who do not eat meat are better tempered and can endure more."
I have heard Japanese say that "foreigners are short-tempered because they eat so much meat."

We spoke of the considerable consumption of pickles, highly salted or fermented. For example,
in the ordinary 25-sen bento (lunch) box there are three or four different kinds of pickles.
The doctor said that pickles were not only a means of taking salt and so appetisers to help
the rice down, but digestives; fermented pickles supplied diastase which enabled the stomach
to deal promptly with the large quantities of rice swallowed.

I asked for the doctor's opinion as to the prevalence of tumours, displacements and cancer
among women who labour in the fields and have to bring up children and do all the housework
of a peasant's dwelling. The doctor replied that he was disposed to think that cases of the
ailments I spoke of were not numerous. Cancer was certainly rare. He knew that in Japan rickets,
goitre and gout were all less common than in the West. He expressed the opinion that childbirth
was easier than in the West. It was a delight to see the fine carriage of the women and girls
astride on the high saddles of the horses.[197] Both sexes in the district wear over their
kimonos blue cotton trousers, something like a plumber's overall only tighter in the legs.
The women are certainly strong. One day I saw a woman carrying uphill on her back two wooden
doors about 6 ft. by 5 ft. 6 ins. An old woman I met on the road volunteered her view that
women were "stronger" than men. She was very much concerned to know how foreigners could live
without eating rice. She said--and this is characteristically Japanese--that she envied me
being able to travel all over the world.

The Buddhist temple is built wholly of wood and the roof is thatched. Whenever there was an
earthquake the timbers seemed to crackle rather than creak. The temple is relatively new and
seems to have been built with materials given by the villagers and by means of a gift of 1,000
yen. The workmanship was local and a good deal of it was faulty. This may have been due to
lack of experience, but it is more likely that the cause was limited funds. The plan and proportions
of the building are excellent and the carving is first-rate. The right of "presentation to
the living" is in the hands of the village. The priest and his family live in a large house
on one side of the temple. On the other side is a small Shinto shrine to which the priest seems
to give such attention as is necessary. The temple is Shingon. There is a sermon once a year
only, or "when some famous man comes." The actual temple in which the priest, who showed me
a fine collection of robes, conducts his services is between forty and fifty mats in area.
Behind it is the room in which the ihai or tablets of the dead are arranged. This part of the
building is covered on the outside with plaster in the manner of a kura (godown) so as to be
fire-proof. On either side of the actual temple are rooms very much as in a spacious private
house. There are two of eighteen and fifteen mats, two of twelve and ten mats and two small
ones. There is also a wide covered engawa (verandah) in front and at the sides. A small kitchen
and what the auctioneers call the usual offices complete the building.

Right round the temple there is a nice garden which keeps the priest's man, a picturesque,
sweet-tempered, guileless old fellow, occupied much of his time. The priest conducted a service
twice a day, at 5:30 in the morning and at 7:30 in the evening. When he fell ill and had to
be carried in a litter to the nearest town for an operation, we missed his beautiful chanting
and expert sounding of the deep-toned gong of the sanctuary. The great bell in the court-yard
was struck by the priest's boy at sundown. The priest kept the old rule against meat. He and
his wife would not eat even cake or biscuits because they feared that there might be milk and
butter in them. The couple were very kind to us and we enjoyed a delightfully quiet life in
the lofty sunny temple rooms. I should judge that Otera San (Mr. Temple) was respected in the
village. His wife was a bustling woman of such sweetness and simplicity of nature as can only
be found in a far valley.

I have mentioned that the total incomings of the priest are probably about 250 yen. He receives
no salary but has his house free. He must "discuss about anything wanted in the temple." I
do not suppose he had to ask anybody whether he might lodge us or not. He receives considerable
gifts of rice, perhaps to the value of 120 yen, at any rate enough for the whole year. He has
also the rent of the "glebe," which consists of 12 tan of paddy, 2 tan of dry field and 10
tan of woodland. Then there are the gifts which are made to him at funerals and for the services
he conducts at the villagers' houses on the days of the dead. One day during the Bon season
every household sent a little girl or boy with a present to the priest. In return these small
visitors were given sweets. During the Bon season some very old men of the village came and
worshipped at the Shinto shrine and were entertained with saké by the priest on the engawa
of his temple. The amount in the collecting box in front of the little Shinto shrine in the
temple yard, largely in rin, would not be more than 10 or 15 sen in the year. Most of the contributions
are in the form of pinches of rice. The priest may give 10 yen a year to his man who works
about the temple and his house and accompanies him to funerals and to the memorial services
at the villagers' dwellings; but this servitor, like his master, no doubt receives presents.

The Shinto priest is probably not so well off as the Buddhist priest. The village makes a small
payment to him twice a year. At New Year 3 yen in all may be flung in the collecting box at
the shrine, but the priest has presents made to him when he goes to see ailing folk and when
he officiates at the building of a new house. Most people when they are ill seem to send for
the Shinto priest. But he explained to me that he does not expect a sick man to "worship only."
He is accustomed to say to the people, "Doctor first, god second," from which I was to conclude,
one who heard told me, that the priest was "rather a civilised man." The Shinto priest had
succeeded a relative in his position. The village had found its Buddhist priest in a neighbouring
district.

The Buddhist priest told me that every year 150 or 160 men and women made a pilgrimage to a
famous shrine some few miles off. The custom was for every house to be represented in the pilgrimage.
Half a dozen people in the year might go on personal pilgrimages and fifty or so might visit
a little shrine on a neighbouring mountain.

FOOTNOTES:

[195] The village consists of about 270 houses. It is joined administratively to another village,
about two miles off, in order to form a mura (commune). The village I am about to describe
is an oaza (large hamlet), which is made up in its turn of two aza (small hamlets). These aza
are themselves divided into six kumi (companies), which are again sub-divided, in the case
of the largest, into four.

[196] See Appendix LIV.

[197] The horses wear basket-work muzzles to prevent them nibbling the crops. By way of compensation
for these encumbrances they have head tassels and belly cloths to keep off the flies.

CHAPTER XXXI

"BON" SEASON SCENES

(NAGANO)

As moderns we have no direct affinity; as individuals we have a capacity for personal sympathy.--MATTHEW
ARNOLD

I had the good fortune to be in the village during the Bon season. The idea is that the spirits
which are visiting their old homes remain between the 11th and 14th of August. The 11th is
called mukae bon and the 14th okuri bon. (Mukae means going to meet; okuri to see off.) On
the 11th the villagers burned a piece of flax plant in front of their houses. That night the
priest said a special prayer in the temple and used the cymbals in addition to the ordinary
gong and drum. The prayer seemed peculiarly sad. Before the shrines in their houses the villagers
placed offerings. One was a horse made out of a cucumber, the legs being bits of flax twig
and the tail and mane the hair-like substance from maize cobs. There were also offerings of
real and artificial flowers and of grapes. In one house I visited I saw geta, waraji, kimonos,
pumpkins, caramels and pencils. Strings of buck-wheat macaroni were laid over twigs of flax
set in a vase. The ihai (name-plates of the dead) seemed to be displayed more prominently than
usual. (They are kept in a kind of small oratory called ihaido, and after a time several names
are collected on a single plate.) Mochi (rice-flour dumpling) is eaten at this time. On the
12th and 14th the priest called at each house for two or three minutes.

I asked if the villagers really believed that their dead returned at the Bon season. The answer
was, "Only the old men and young children believe that the dead actually come, but the young
men and young women, when they see the burning of the flax-plant and the other things that
are done, think of the dead; they remember them solemnly at this time." And I think it was
so. The stranger to a Japanese house, in which there is not only a Shinto shelf but a Buddhist
shrine--where the name plates of the dead for several generations are treasured--cannot but
feel that, when all allowances are made for the dulling influences of use and wont, the plan
is a means of taking the minds of the household beyond the daily round. The fact that there
is a certain familiarity with the things of the shrine and of the Shinto shelf, just as there
is a certain freedom at the public shrines and in the temple, does not destroy the impression.
When a man has taken me to his little graveyard I have been struck by the lack of that lugubriousness
which Western people commonly associate with what is sacred. The Japanese conception of reverence
is somewhat different from our own. As to sorrow, the idea is, as is well known, that it is
the height of bad manners to trouble strangers with a display of what in many cases is largely
a selfish grief. A manservant smiled when he told me of his only son's death. On my offering
sympathy the tears ran down his face.

When the Bon season ended on the fourteenth all the flowers and decorations of the domestic
shrines were taken early in the morning to the bridge over the diminished river and flung down.
The idea is perhaps that they are carried away to the sea. (As a matter of fact there was so
little water that almost everything flung in from the bridge remained in sight for weeks until
there was a storm.) When the flowers and decorations had been cast from the bridge the people
went off to worship at the graves. Many coloured streamers of paper, written on by the priest,
were flying there.

The Bon dances took place five nights running in the open space between the Shinto shrine and
the old barn theatre. Nothing could have been duller. The line from Ruddigore came to mind,
"This is one of our blameless dances." The first night the performers were evidently shy and
the girls would hardly come forward. Things warmed up a little more each night and on the last
night of all there was a certain animation; but even then the movement, the song and the whole
scheme of the dance seemed to be lacking in vigour. What happened was that a number of lads
gradually formed themselves into a ring, which got larger or smaller as the girls joined it
or waited outside. The girls bunched together all the time. None of the dancers ever took hands.
The so-called dancing consisted of a raising of both arms--the girls had fans in their hands--and
a simple attitudinising. The lads all clapped their hands together in time, but in a half-hearted
kind of way; the girls struck the palms of their left hands with their fans. The boys were
in clean working dress. Some had towels wound round their heads, some wore caps and others
hats. The girls were got up in all their best clothes with fine obi and white aprons. The music
was dirge-like. It was not at all what Western people understand to be singing. The performers
emitted notes in a kind of falsetto, and these five or six notes were repeated over and over
and over again. The only word I can think of which approximately describes what I heard, but
it seems harsh, is the Northern word, yowling. First the lads yowled and then the girls responded
with a slightly more musical repetition of the same sounds. For all the notice the boys appeared
to take of the girls they might not have been present. The lads and lasses were no doubt fully
conscious, however, of each other's presence. The dancing took place on the nights of the full
moon. But it was cloudy, and, owing to the big surrounding trees, the performance was often
dimly lit.

To me the dancing was depressing, but that is not to say that the dancers found it so. Dancing
began at eight o'clock and went on till midnight. "They would not be fit for their work next
day if they danced later," a sober-minded adult explained. This was only one suggestion among
many that the dance has been devitalised under the respectabilising influence of the policeman
and village elders who had forgotten their youth. To the onlooker it did not seem to matter
very much whether the dance, as it is now, continues or not. Occasionally one had an impression
that it had once been a folk dance of vigour and significance. But the present-day performance
might have been conceived and presented by a P.S.A. All this is true when the dance is contrasted
with an English West-country dance or a dance in Scotland at Hallowe'en. But it must be remembered
that the Bon dance during the first nights is in the nature of a lament for the dead. There
is something haunting in the strange little refrain, though it is difficult to hum or whistle
it. Perhaps the whole festival is too intimately racial to be fully understood by a stranger.
By the end of the festival, on the night of merrymaking in honour of the village guardian spirit,
things were livelier. Some of the lads had evidently had saké and even the girls had lost their
demureness.

After the Buddhist Bon season was over it was the turn of Shinto, and the village children
were paraded before the shrine. A number of Shinto priests in the neighbourhood took a leading
part in making the customary offerings and the local priest read a longish address to the guardian
spirit of the village. Respectful correctness rather than devoutness is the phrase which one
would ordinarily be disposed to apply to the ceremonies at a Shinto shrine, but the local priest
was reverential. The ceremonies of the day evidently meant a great deal to him. The children
paid a well-drilled attention. They also sang the national anthem and a special song for the
day under the leadership of the school teacher, who played on a portable harmonium which sounded
as portable harmoniums usually sound. The whole proceedings wore a semi-official look.

Happily there was nothing semi-official about the wrestling to which we were invited later
in the day. A special little platform had been put up for us. The ring was made on rice chaff
and earth. The wrestlers squatted in two parties at opposite sides of the ring. They did not
wear the straw girdles of the professionals. Each man had a wisp of cotton cloth tied round
his waist and between his legs. One of the best things about the wrestling was the formal introduction
of the competitors. A weazened little man with a tucked-up cotton kimono and bare legs, but
with the address and dignity of a "Nō" player, proclaimed the names and styles--it seems that
the wrestlers have a fancy to be known by the names of mountains and rivers--in a fashion which
recalled the tournament. There was also another personage, with a Dan Leno-like face and an
extraordinary gift of contorting his legs, who played the buffoon, and gyrated round the dignified
M.C., who remained unmoved while the audience laughed. It was evidently the right thing for
the prizes--they were awarded at the end of each bout--to be presented as comically as possible;
and some of the Shakespearean humours which appealed so powerfully to the groundlings at the
Globe were enacted as if neither space nor time intervened between us and the Elizabethans.

The bouts were not so fast as professional wrestlers are accustomed to, but they were none
the less exciting. The result was invariably in some doubt and often entirely unexpected. The
usual rule was that he who threw his man twice was the winner. In some events, immediately
a wrestler had been thrown, a succession of other contestants rushed at the victor, one after
the other, without allowing him time even to straighten his back. Some of the competitors were
poorly developed but the lankiest and skinniest were often excellent wrestlers. At an interval
in the wrestling the committee flung hard peaches to wrestlers and spectators. I wanted to
make some little acknowledgment of the kindness of the young men's association in providing
us with our little platform, and it was suggested that autographed fans at about a penny three-farthings
apiece for about forty wrestlers would be acceptable. This gift was announced on a long streamer.
The funny man of the ring also made a speech of welcome. I may add that the young men's association
had fitted up on the way to the scene of the wrestling a number of special lanterns which bore
efforts in English by a student home for the holidays.

I was told that the people of the village were "honest, independent and earnest," and I am
disposed to think that this may be true of most of them. As to honesty, we had the satisfaction
of living without any thought of dorobo (robbers). It is a great comfort to be able at night
to leave open most of the shoji and not to have to pull out the amado (wooden shutters) from
their case. The nature of our possessions was well known not only in the village but throughout
the district, for there was seldom a day on which a knot of grown-ups or children did not come
to peer into our rooms. The inspection was accompanied by many polite bows and friendly smiles.
On a festival day the crowd occasionally reached about fifty.

There were formerly several teahouses in the village, but under the influence of the young
men's association all houses of entertainment but two had been closed. These two had become
"inns." In one of these the girl attendant was the proprietor's daughter; in the other there
was a solitary waitress. One of the abolished teahouses had taken itself two miles away, where
possibly it still had visitors. There seemed to be two public baths in the village, both belonging
to private persons. The charge was 1 sen for adults and 5 rin for children. At one of the baths
I noticed separate doors for men and women; in the bath itself the division between the sexes
was about two feet high.

The smallest subdivision of the village is called kumi or company. Each of these has a kind
of manager who is elected on a limited suffrage. The managers of the kumi, it was explained,
are "like diplomatists if something is wanted against another village." The kumi also seems
to have some corporate life. There is once a month a semi-social, semi-religious meeting at
each member's house in turn. The persons who attend lay before the house shrine 3 or 5 sen
each or a small quantity of rice for the feast. The master of the house provides the sauce
or pickles. I heard also of a kind of kō called mujin, a word which has also the meaning of
"inexhaustible." By such agencies as these money is collected for people who are poor or for
men who want help in their business or who need to go on a journey.

We have seen that the village is by every token well off. What are its troubles? Undoubtedly
the people work hard. I imagine, however, that there are very many districts where the people
work much harder. The foreigner is too apt to confuse working hard with working continuously.
Whether outdoors or indoors, whether at a handicraft or at business, an Oriental gives the
impression of having no notion of getting his work done and being finished with it. The working
day lasts all day and part of the night. Whether much more is done in the time than in the
shorter Western day may be doubted. During the brief silk-worm season many of the women of
the village in which I stayed are afoot for a long day and for part of the night, but the winter
brings relief from the strain of all sorts of work. Owing to the snow it is practically impossible
to do any work out of doors in January, February and March. The snow may stop work even in
December. Here, then, is a natural holiday. Whether with their men indoors the women have much
of a holiday is uncertain. But indoors should not be taken too exactly. There is some hunting
in the winter. Deer come within two miles and hares are easily got.

Well-off though the village is, there is a strong desire to increase incomes. The people are
working harder than they have done in the past because the cost of living has risen. An attempt
is to be made to increase secondary employments. Corporately, the village is said to possess
10,000 yen in cash in addition to its land. It is said that this money is lent out to some
of the more influential people. What the security is and how safe the monetary resources of
a village loaned out in this way may be I do not know, but there is obviously some risk and
I gathered that some anxiety existed.

The people of the village, like a large proportion of the population of the prefecture, are
distinctly progressive. Nagano is full of what someone called "a new rural type" of men who
read and delight in going to lectures. Lectures are a great institution in Nagano. For these
lectures country people tramp into a county town in their waraji carrying their bento. To these
rustics a lecture is a lecture. A friend of mine who is given to lecturing spoke on one occasion
for seven hours. It is true that he divided the lecture between two days and allowed himself
a half hour's rest in the middle of each three and a half hours' section. He started with an
audience of 500. On the first day at the end of the second part of the lecture it was noticed
that the audience had decreased by about 70. On the second day about 100 people in all wearied
in well-doing. But it was the townsfolk, not the country people, who left.

I found upon enquiry that in the village in which I had been living there had been one arrest
only during the previous year. The charge was one of theft. Half a dozen other people had got
into trouble but their arrests had been "postponed." Two of these six delinquents had "caused
fire accidentally," two had been guilty of petty theft, and the remaining two had sold things
of small value which did not belong to them. During the twelve months there had been no charges
of immorality and no gambling. Perhaps, however, there may have been police admonitions. It
seemed to have been a long time since there had been a case of what we should call illegitimacy
or of a child being born in the first months of a young couple's marriage. Someone mentioned,
however, that the girls who went to the silk factories were, as a consequence of their life
there, "debased morally and physically."

A notable thing in the village was four fires, two the month before we arrived and two while
we were there. They were suspected to have been the work of a person of weak intellect. (As
in our own villages half a century ago, there is in every community at least one "natural.")
On the night of the first fire we were awakened about 3 a.m. by shouting, by the clanging of
the fire bell and by the booming of the great bell in the temple yard. The fire was about four
houses away. It was a still night and the flames and sparks went straight up. As the possibility
of the wind shifting and the fire spreading could not be entirely excluded we quickly got our
more important possessions on the engawa--at least a young maidservant did so. The continual
experience which the Japanese have of fires makes them self-possessed on these occasions, and
this girl had futon, bags, etc., neatly tied in big furoshiki (wrapping cloths) in the shortest
possible time. It was only when she was satisfied that our belongings were in readiness for
easy removal that she went to look after her own. The matter-of-fact, fore-sighted, neat way
in which she got to work was admirable. With great kindness one of the elders of the village
came hurriedly to the temple, evidently thinking we should feel alarmed, and cried out, "Yoroshii,
Yoroshii" ("All right").

As I stood before the blaze what struck me most was the orderliness and quiet of the crowd
and the way in which whatever help was needed was at once forthcoming without fuss. The fire
brigades were working in an orderly way and everything was so well managed that the scene seemed
almost as if it were being rehearsed for a cinema. One difference between what I saw and what
would be seen at home at a fire was that the scene was well lighted from the front, for the
members of the fire brigades carried huge lanterns on high poles. From the mass of old wet
reed in the roadway I judged that the first act of the firemen had been to use their long hooks
to denude the roof of the burning house of its thatch, which in the lightest wind is so dangerous
to surrounding dwellings. Nobody in the village is insured, but the neighbours seem to meet
about a third of the loss caused by a fire. It is an illustration of local values that a larger
subscription than 2 yen would not be accepted from me. In connection with this fire someone
mentioned to me that incendiarism is specially prevalent in some prefectures, while in others
the use of the knife is the usual means of wiping out scores. The phrase used by a person who
threatens arson is, "I will make the red worm creep into your roof."

During the winter there is too much drinking--"generally by poor men"--but there is said to
be less of this than formerly. Some people stop their newspaper in the summer and resume taking
it during the greater leisure of the winter. It has been noted, among other small matters,
that the local vocabulary has expanded during the past fifteen years. During our stay the young
midwife, who was going to America to join her husband, was eager to give her service in the
kitchen for the chance of improving her English. We also gave help in the evenings thrice a
week to one of the school teachers who had managed to obtain a fair reading knowledge of English.
The earnestness with which these two people studied was touching. While I was in the village
the young men's association began the issue of a magazine. Lithographic ink was brought to
me so that I might contribute in autograph as well as in translation. The association, which
receives 10 yen a year from the village, cultivates several plots of paddy and dry land. The
bigger schoolboys drilled with imitation rifles, imitation bayonets and imitation cartridges.
I felt that I should know more about the villagers if I could learn, like Synge, their topics
of conversation when no stranger was present. One day while strolling with a friend I asked
him what was being said by two girls who were working among the mulberries and were hidden
from us by a hedge (hedges only occur round mulberry plots). He told me that one was enhancing
to her companion the tremendous dignity of the Crown Prince by exaggerating grotesquely the
size of the house he lived in, which reminded me of the servant who told her friend that "Queen
Victoria was so rich that she had a piano in her kitchen." Generally the conversational topics
of the villagers seemed to be people and prices. Undoubtedly, I was told, the subjects which
were most popular, "because they provoked hilarity," were family discords and sexual questions.
One man with whom I spoke about the morality of the village said cautiously, "They say there
are some moneylenders here."

IN AND OUT OF THE TEA PREFECTURE

CHAPTER XXXII

PROGRESS OF SORTS

(SHIDZUOKA AND KANAGAWA)

I am not of those who look for perfection amongst the rural population.--BORROW

The torrents that foam down the slopes of Fuji are a cheap source of electricity, and, though
the guide book may not stress the fact, it is possible that the first glimpse of the unutterable
splendours of the sacred mountain may be gained in the neighbourhood of a cotton, paper or
silk factory. The farmers welcomed the factories when they found that factory contributions
to local rates eased the burden of the agricultural population. The farmers also realised that
to the factories were due electric light, the telephone, better roads and more railway stations.
The farmers are undoubtedly better off. They are so well off indeed that the district can afford
an agricultural expert of its own, children may be seen wearing shoes instead of geta, and
the agriculturists themselves occasionally sport coats cut after a supposedly Western fashion.
But the people, it was insisted, have become a little "sly," and girls return from the factories
less desirable members of the community.

Mention of these matters led an agricultural authority whom I met during my trip in Shidzuoka
to deliver himself on the general question of the condition of the farmer in Japan. He expressed
the opinion that 10 per cent. of the farmers were in a "wretched condition." Big holdings--if
any holdings in Japan can be called big--were getting bigger; it was an urgent question how
to secure the position of the owners of the small and the medium-sized classes of holding.
The fact that many rural families were in debt, not for seed or manure but for food spoke for
itself. The amounts might seem trivial in Western eyes, but when the average income was only
350 yen a year a debt of 80 yen was a serious matter; and 80 yen was the average debt of farming
families in the prefecture of Shidzuoka. No one could say that the farmers were lazy: they
were working hard according to their lights. They were working too hard, perhaps, on the limited
food they got. There could be no doubt that the physical condition of the countryman was being
lowered.

Again, there was the fact of the rural exodus--the phrase sounded strangely in the middle of
a Japanese sentence. As to the causes, the first unquestionably was that the farmer had not
enough land on which to make a living. If the farmer could have 5 acres or thereabouts he would
be well off. But the average area per farmer in the prefecture in which we were travelling
was a little less than 2-1/2 acres. High taxes were another cause of the farmer's present condition.
Then a year's living would be mortgaged for the expenses of a marriage ceremony. At a funeral,
too, the neighbours came to eat and drink. They took charge of the kitchen and even ordered
in food. (After a Japanese feast the guests are given at their departure the food that is left
over.) Further, some farmers wasted their substance on the ambitions of local politics. Again,
conscripts who had gone off to the army hatless and wearing straw shoes came home hatted and
sometimes booted. Military service deprived farmers of labour, and their boys while away asked
their parents for money. Conscription pressed more heavily on the poor because the sons of
well-to-do people continued their education to the middle school, and attendance at a middle
school entitled a young man to reduction of military service to one year only.[198]

The countryside was suffering from the way in which importance was increasingly attached to
industry and commerce. Many M.P.s were of the agricultural class, but they were chiefly landlords,
and they were often shareholders and directors of industrial companies. There was very little
real Parliamentary representation of the farming class and it had not yet found literary expression.
There were signs, however, that some landlords were realising that industry and agriculture
were not of equal importance. But the farmers were slow to move. The traditions of the Tokugawa
epoch survived, making action difficult. Finally, there was the drawback to rural development
which exists in the family system. But that, as Mr. Pickwick said, comprises by itself a difficult
study of no inconsiderable magnitude, and we must return to it on another occasion.

In one of my excursions I went over a large agricultural school, the boast of which was that
of all the youths who had passed through it, twenty only had deserted the land. I met the present
scholars marching with military tread, mattocks on shoulders, to the school paddies.

I noticed schoolgirls wearing a wooden tablet. It was a good-conduct badge. If a girl was not
wearing it on reaching home her parents knew that her teacher had retained it because of some
fault; if she was not wearing it at school her teacher knew that her parents had kept it back
for a similar reason. The girls when they come to school have often baby brothers or sisters
tied on their backs. Otherwise the girls would have to stay at home in order to look after
them. I asked a schoolmaster what happened when children were kept at home. He said that when
a child had been absent a week he called twice on the parents in order to remonstrate. If there
was no result he reported the matter to the village authorities, who administered two warnings.
Failing the return of the truant a report was made by the village authorities to the county
authorities. They summoned the father to appear before them. This meant loss of time and the
cost of the journey. Should the parent choose to continue defiant he was fined 5 to 10 yen
for disobedience to authority and up to 30 yen for not sending his child to school.

I found that a local philanthropic association had provided the speaker's school with a supply
of large oil-paper-covered umbrellas so that children who had come unprovided could go home
on a rainy day without a parent, elder brother or sister having to leave work to bring an umbrella
to school.

In the playground of this school there was a low platform before which the children assembled
every morning. The headmaster, standing on the platform, gravely saluted the children and the
children as gravely responded. The scholars also bowed in the direction of Tokyo, in the centre
of which is the Emperor's palace. An inscription hanging in the school was, "Exert yourself
to kill harmful insects." In another school there was a portrait of a former teacher who had
covered the walls of the school with water-colours of local scenery. I noticed in the playground
of a third school a flower-covered cairn and an inscribed slab to the memory of a deceased
master. Every school possesses equipment taken from the enemy during the Russo-Japanese war,
usually a shell, a rifle and bayonet and an entrenching spade.

In this prefecture I heard of young men's associations' efforts to discourage "cheek binding,"
which is the wearing of the head towel in such a way as to disguise the face and so enable
the cheek binder to do, if he be so minded, things he might not do if he were recognisable.

One day I made my headquarters in a town that had just been rebuilt after a fire. Within four
hours the blaze aided by a strong wind had consumed 1,700 houses and caused the deaths of nine
persons. The destruction of so many dwellings is wrought by bits of paper or thatch, or the
light pieces of wood from the shoji, which are carried aflame by the wind, setting fire to
several houses simultaneously.

Beside street gutters I came across little stone jizō, the cheerful-looking guardian deities
of the children playing near; but they looked as incongruous in the position they occupied
as did a small shrine which was standing in the shadow of a gasometer.

I heard of contracts under which girls served as nurse girls in private families. A poor farmer
may enter into a contract when his girl is five for her to go into service at eight. He receives
cash in anticipation of the fulfilment of the contract.

I was assured by a man competent to speak on the matter that a certain small town was notorious
for receiving boys who had been stolen as small children from their homes in the hills. Up
to 30 yen might be given for a boy. There might be a dozen of such unfortunates in the place.
Happily many of the children obtained by this "slave system," as my informant called it, ran
away as soon as they were old enough to realise how they had been treated.

I visited a well-known rural reformer in the village which he and his father had improved under
the precepts of Ninomiya. The hillside had been covered with tea, orange trees and mulberry;
the community had not only got out of debt but had come to own land beyond its boundaries;
gambling, drunkenness and immorality, it was averred, had "disappeared"; there were larger
and better crops; and "the habit of enjoying nature" had increased. The amusements of the village
were wrestling, fencing, jūjitstu, and the festivals.

I heard here a story of how a bridge which was often injured by stores was as often mysteriously
repaired. On a watch being kept it was found that the good work was done by a villager who
had been scrupulous to keep secret his labours for the public welfare. Another tale was of
a poor man who bought an elaborate shrine and brought it to his humble dwelling. On his neighbours
suggesting that a finer house were a fitter resting-place for such a shrine, the man replied:
"I do not think so. My shrine is the place of my parents and ancestors, and may be fine. But
the place in which the shrine stands is my place; it need not be fine."

In travelling the roads notices are often seen on official-looking boards with pent roofs.
But all of these notices are not official; one I copied was the advertisement of a shrine which
declared itself to be unrivalled for toothache. The horses on the roads are sometimes protected
from the sun by a kind of oblong sail, which works on a swivel attached to the harness. Black
velvety butterflies as big as wrens flit about. (There are twice as many butterflies and moths
in Japan as at home.) Snakes, ordinarily of harmless varieties, are frequently seen, dead or alive.

Many of the people one passes are smoking, usually the little brass pipe used both by men and
women, which, like some of the earliest English pipes, does not hold more tobacco than will
provide a few draws. The pipe is usually charged twice or thrice in succession. One notices
an immense amount of cigarette smoking, which cannot be without ill effect. There is a law
forbidding smoking below the age of twenty. It is not always enforced, but when enforced there
is a confiscation of smoking materials and a fining of the parents. The voices of many middle-aged
women and some young ones are raucous owing to excessive smoking of pipes or cigarettes.

I looked into a school and saw the wall inscription, "Penmanship is like pulling a cart uphill.
There must be no haste and no stopping." Here, as in so many places, I saw the well-worn cover
and much-thumbed pages of Self Help. I may add a fact which would be in its place in a new
edition of Smiles's Character. As a simple opening to conversation I often asked if a man had
been in Europe or America. His answer, if he had not travelled, was never "No." It was always
"Not yet."

In these country schools most of the songs are set to Western tunes. Such airs as "Ye Banks
and Braes," "Auld Lang Syne," "Annie Laurie," "Home, Sweet Home" and "The Last Rose of Summer"
are utilised for the songs not only of school children but of university students. Few of the
singers have any notion that the music was not written in their own land. A Japanese friend
told me that all the airs I mentioned "seem tender and touching to us," and I remember a Japanese
agricultural expert saying, "Reading those poems of Burns, I believe firmly that our hearts
can vibrate with yours."

As I have denied myself the pleasure of dwelling on Japanese scenic beauties, I may not pause
to bear witness to the faery delights of cherry blossom which I enjoyed everywhere during this
journey. But I may record two cherry-blossom poems I gathered by the way. The first is, "Why
do you wear such a long sword, you who have come only to see the cherry blossoms?" The second
is, "Why fasten your horse to the cherry tree which is in full bloom, when the petals would
fall off if the horse reared?" A Japanese once told me that a foreigner had greatly surprised
him by asking if the cherry trees bore much fruit.

Orange as well as tea culture is a feature of the agricultural life of the prefecture. As in
California and South Africa, ladybirds have been reared in large numbers in order to destroy
scale. I saw at the experiment station miserable orange trees encaged for producing scale for
the breeding ladybirds. The insects are distributed from the station chiefly as larvae. They
are sent through the post about a hundred at a time in boxes. The ladybird, which has, I believe,
eight generations a year, and as an adult lives some twenty days, lays from 200 to 250 eggs,
150 of the larvae from which may survive. Alas for the released ladybirds of Shidzuoka! Scale
is said to be disappearing so quickly that they are having but a hard life of it.

In the neighbouring prefecture of Kanagawa I paid a visit to a gentleman who, with his brother,
had devoted himself extensively to fruit and flower growing. Their produce was sent the twenty-six
hours' journey by road to Tokyo, where four shops were maintained. A considerable quantity
of foreign pears had been produced on the palmette verrier system. The branches of the extensively
grown native pear are everywhere tied to an overhead framework which completely covers in the
land on which the trees stand. This method was adopted in order to cope with high winds and
at the same time to arrest growth, for in the damp soil in which Japanese pears are rooted,
the branches would be too sappy. Foreign pears are not more generally cultivated because they
come to the market in competition with oranges, and the Japanese have not yet learnt to buy
ripe pears. The native pear looks rather like an enormous russet apple but it is as hard as
a turnip, and, though it is refreshing because of its wateriness, has little flavour. Progress
is being made with peaches and apricots. Figs are common but inferior. A fine native fruit,
when well grown, is the biwa or loquat. And homage must be paid to the best persimmons, which
yield place only to oranges and tangerines.[199] In the north the apples are good, but most
orchards are badly in need of spraying. Experiments have been made with dates. Flowers have
a weaker scent than in Europe. A rose called the "thousand ri"--a ri is two and a half miles--has
only a slight perfume two and a half inches away, and then only when pulled. I met with no
heather--it is to be seen in Saghalien, which has several things in common with Scotland--but
found masses of sweet-scented thyme.

One of the horticulturists to whom I have referred was something of an Alpinist and was married
to a Swiss lady. They had several children. I also met an American lady who had had great experience
of fruit growing in California, had married a Japanese farmer there, and had come to live with
him in a remote part of his native country. From such alliances as these there may come some
day a woman's impressions of the life and work of women and girls on the farms and in the factories
of rural Japan. Many a visitor to the country districts must have marked the dumbness of the
women folk. Women were often present at the conversations I had in country places, but they
seldom put in a word. I was received one day at the house of a man who is well known as a rural
philanthropist--he has indeed written two or three brochures on the problems of the country
districts--but when he, my friend and I sat at table his wife was on her knees facing us two
rooms off. Every instructed person knows that there is a beautiful side to the self-suppression
of the Japanese woman--many moving stories might be told--and that the "subservience" is more
apparent than real. But there is certainly unmerited suffering. The men and women of the Far
East seem to be gentler and simpler, however, than the vehement and demonstrative folk of the
West, and conditions which appear to the foreign observer to be unjust and unbearable cannot
be easily and accurately interpreted in Western terms. At present many women who are conscious
of the situation of their sex see no means of improvement by their own efforts. But the development
of the women's movement is proceeding in some directions at a surprising pace. Many young men
are sincerely desirous to do their part in bringing about greater freedom. They realise what
is undoubtedly true that not a few things which urgently need changing in Japan must be changed
by men and women working together.

Money has always been forthcoming, officially, semi-officially and privately, for sending to
America and Europe numbers of intelligent young men and women. So disciplined and studious
are most of these young people that their country has had back with interest every yen of the
funds so wisely provided. We have much to learn from Japanese methods in this matter of well-considered
post-graduate foreign travel.[200]

FOOTNOTES:

[198] See Appendix LXIII.

[199] See Appendix LV.

[200] See Appendix LVI.

CHAPTER XXXIII

GREEN TEA AND BLACK

(SHIDZUOKA)

Things I would know but am forbid By time and briefness.

LAURENCE BINYON

More than half of the tea grown in Japan comes from the hilly coast-wise prefecture of Shidzuoka
through which every traveller passes on his journey from Kobe or Kyoto to Tokyo. He sees a
terraced cultivation of tea and fruit carried up to the skyline. But there is more tea on the
hills than the passenger in the train imagines. When viewed from below much of the tea looks
like scrub. In various parts of southern Japan patches of tea may be noticed growing on little
islands in the paddies, but tea is a hill plant and it is on the sides of hills and on the
plateaus at the top of them that the plantations are to be found.

Tea looks not unlike privet and grows or is made to grow like box to a height which can be
conveniently picked over. The rows of neat-looking plants are half a dozen feet apart. The
first picking may take place when the bush is three or four years old. Bushes may last forty,
fifty or even a hundred years, but the ordinary life of tea is between twenty and thirty. A
bush is usually cut back every ten years or so. A good deal depends on the pruning. After each
picking the bushes are cut over with the shears just as we trim box. These trimmings may be
used to make an inferior tea for farmhouse consumption, or they may be utilised in the manufacture
of caffeine or theine--the two products are indistinguishable. Usually the bushes are cut round-topped,
but occasionally they are roof-shaped and sometimes they are like giant green toadstools.

The characteristic feature of a tea district beyond the rows of tea bushes is the chimney piping
of the farmhouses which manufacture their own tea. (The word manufacture is used in the original
sense, for farmhouse tea is hand-made.) In a country where the houses are chimneyless these
galvanised iron chimneys are conspicuous.

The picking of the tea seems to be done almost entirely by women and children. The pickers
are supposed to take only the three leaves at the tips. But the pickers mostly take bigger
pieces, for the somewhat higher price given for good picking is not enough to secure three-leaf
stuff only. It is not absolutely necessary, however, that the leaves gathered should be all
of such a choice sort.

Women and girls come from a distance to pick tea. Picking is regarded as "polite labour by
the daughters of the higher middle class of farmers." It has also the attraction that farmers'
sons have a way of visiting tea gardens in order to "pick up wives." The girls certainly give
would-be husbands every chance of seeing what they can do, for they are at work for a long
day, often of from twelve to fourteen hours. In such a day it is possible, I was told, to pick
50, 80 or even 100 lbs. of leaves. One man put the rate as from 50 to 120 pieces a minute.
Four pounds of leaves make a pound of tea.

In one district the first picking may take place during the first three weeks of May. In colder
districts it is proceeding until the end of the month. The second season is from the end of
June until the beginning of July. The third is in August. The bushes, after producing their
three crops of leaves, bear in November their seeds, which are about three-quarters of an inch
in diameter and are worth about a sen a pound. Oil is pressed from them.

Good tea depends on climate and soil, careful cutting over and good manuring. In some places
I saw soya bean being grown between the rows as green manuring. Like so many other crops, tea
is or ought to be sprayed. The northern limit of tea is Niigata, where the bushes must be protected
from the snow, which may fall in that prefecture to a great depth. The region in which tea
cannot be grown is that in which the temperature falls below zero for two months. Tea is not
grown, as in India and Ceylon, by tea planters, but in small areas and as a side-line at that.
I never saw a plantation of more than five acres. Most areas are much smaller. The chief reason
for this is that tea is largely manufactured on the day on which it is picked and the capacity
of a farmer's tea manufacturing equipment is limited. In Shidzuoka nearly a quarter of the
tea is hand rolled and three-quarters made by machinery. Elsewhere in Japan half the crop may
be hand rolled.

When leaves are sold to factors the transactions take place in booths opened by them in the
tea districts. It is a busy scene in the region of the cottage factories. One is on a wide
plateau covered almost entirely with rows of tea plants. Here and there are parties of chattering
pickers, their heads protected by the national towel. Against the blue hilltops on the horizon
stand out the cottages of the farmers with chimney-pipes smoking, the booths of the dealers,
and, in every patch of tea, the thatched roof over the precious sunken pot of liquid manure
by which the tea bushes have so often benefited. On the road one passes women with baskets
on their backs, like Scotch fish-wives with their creels, men carrying two baskets suspended
from a pole across one shoulder, or a man and his wife hauling a barrow, all heavy-laden with
newly picked leaves. Small horse-drawn wagons carry the manufactured tea in big, well-tied,
pink paper bales. On the whole, although the labour is hard it seemed a better life having
to do with the fragrant tea than with the rice of the sludge ponds in the valley below.

The tea produced in Japan is principally green tea. Most of this is of the kind called sencha--cha
means tea. An inferior article made out of older and tougher leaves is called bancha. The custom
is for the maid who serves bancha to heat the leaves over the charcoal fire just before infusing.
This gives it an agreeable roasted flavour. It is often served in a darker shade of porcelain
than is used for ordinary tea. There are also the finer teas, kikicha (powdered tea) and gyokuro
(jewelled dewdrops), which is the best kind of sencha. Black tea was being made experimentally
when I first arrived in Japan. Brick tea (pressed to the consistency and weight of wood) may
be green or black. Most of the exported tea, other than brick tea, goes to America.

It is unnecessary to state that the Japanese tea-tray does not include a sugar basin, cream
jug or spoons. It does include, however, a squat oval jug into which the hot water from the
kettle is poured in order to lower the temperature below boiling point. Boiling water would
bring out a bitter flavour from the tea. Made with water just below boiling point the tea is
deliciously soft, even oily, and has a flavour and aroma which cream and sugar would ruin.
It is certainly refreshing, and, when drunk newly infused, relatively harmless. Bancha is made
with hotter water than other tea. The handleless cups hold about half of what our teacups contain.[201]
Tea is not the only plant used for making "tea." One drinks in some parts infusions of cherry,
plum or peach blossom.

The processes of tea manufacture in farmers' outhouses and in factories are described in school-books,
and I need not transcribe my impressions.[202] But I may note that some of the money the tea
farmer earns for the country is spent in his interests. There is in Shidzuoka a well-directed
prefectural experiment station which exercises itself over problems of tea production. Every
tea grower and tea dealer in the prefecture must belong to the prefectural tea guild. He must
also belong to his county tea guild. The rules of the guilds--there is a central guild in Tokyo--have
the force of law. Evil doers in the tea industry have their product confiscated. Tea dealers
who do not carry their guild membership card are fined. It is not difficult to discover colouring
in tea if it is rubbed on white paper. The Government's part in subduing tea colouring was
to seize all the dye stuff it could lay hold of which could be used for colouring tea.

The future of green tea depends almost entirely on the demand from the growing population of
Japan, but a taste for the "foreign style" black tea--with condensed milk--is spreading. The
cheap labour of India and China and the big plantations and factories of India have diminished
the Japanese green tea trade and the effort to produce black tea is also met by foreign competition.
I was told that China tea receives much sunshine while growing, and that there was most hope
for Japanese black tea when made from leaves grown in the extreme south. There is a difference
between the Chinese and the Japanese tea plant and it cannot be got over by importing Chinese
plants, for the climate of Japan simply Japanises the imported sort.

I found in the United States that green tea is bought, as it is no doubt sold in Shidzuoka,
on appearance. American housewives were paying for an appearance that matters little in an
article that is not to be looked at but soaked. Not only is much extra labour required for
sifting the leaf several times in order to obtain a good appearance, but the bulk is reduced
from 5 to 10 per cent. The drinking quality of the tea also suffers, for the largest leaf has
usually the best cup quality. If teas were bought for cup quality only they might be at least
from 5 to 10 per cent. cheaper.

FOOTNOTES:

[201] At many stations one used to have handed into the carriage for less than a penny a pot
of tea and a cup--you are entitled to keep both pot and cup if you like. The tea-seller's kettle
of water is kept hot with charcoal. Tea is freshly infused in each customer's pot.

[202] For statistics and theine percentages, see Appendix LVII.

EXCURSIONS FROM TOKYO

CHAPTER XXXIV

A COUNTRY DOCTOR AND HIS NEIGHBOURS

(CHIBA)

What was yet wanting must be sought by fortuitous and unguided excursions and gleaned as industry
should find or chance should offer.--JOHNSON

When I first went to Chiba, the peninsular prefecture lying across the bay from Tokyo, many
carriages in the trains were heated by iron hibachi[203]with pieces of old carpet thrown over
them. It is on the Chiba trains that the recruits of that section of the army which has to
do with the operation of the railways learn their business. It is in part of Chiba--and also
in a district in Tokyo prefecture--that the earliest rice is grown. Chiba also contains more
poultry than any other prefecture.[204] It has the further distinction of having tried to issue
truthful crop statistics.[205]

Wherever one goes in Japan one is impressed by the large consumption of fish--fresh, dried,
and salted. Thin slices of raw fish make one of the tasty dishes at a Japanese meal. The foreigner,
forgetting the Western relish for oysters and clams, is repelled by this raw fish, but a liking
for it seems to be quickly acquired. In Tokyo the slices of raw fish are cut from the meaty
bonito (tunny), but tai (bream) is also used. Bonito also provides the long narrow steaks,
dried to a mahogany-like hardness, which are known as katsubushi. This katsubushi keeps indefinitely
and is grated or shaved with a kind of plane and used much as the Western cook employs Parmesan
cheese.

I heard a man in Chiba combating very strongly the idea of there being a connection between
leprosy and fish eating. As to leprosy, it is doubtful if the belief expressed by the Chinese
name for the disease, "heavenly punishment," has disappeared. There are at least 24,000 lepers
in Japan, and as a well-known Japanese work of reference casually remarks, "the hospitals can
at present accommodate only 5 per cent. of them."

I could not but compare the undulating countryside, on which so vast an amount of labour had
been expended, with what it would have been under European treatment and the influence of an
European climate--possibly picturesque pasture with high hedges. The congeries of rice fields
was fringed, where the water supply had given out, with upland cultivation. On the low mud
walls which separated the paddies beans grew except at a boundary corner, where a tea or mulberry
bush served as a landmark. In looking down or up the little valleys one saw how completely
the houses had been brushed aside to the foot of the low hills so that no land cultivable as
paddies should be wasted. This intensely developed countryside was not however ideal land.
It was often much too sandy. Not a few paddies had to depend to some extent on the water they
could catch for themselves. A naturally draughty and hungry land was yielding crops by a laborious
manurial improvement of its physical and chemical condition, by wonders being wrought in rural
hydraulics and by unending industry in cultivation and petty engineering.

It might be supposed that beauty had gone from the countryside. Some of what the land agents
call the amenities of the district had certainly disappeared. There seemed to be nowhere for
the pedestrian to sit down in order to refresh himself with those rural sights and sounds which
exhilarate the spirit. But this marvellously delved, methodised and trimmed countryside had
a character and a stimulus of its own. It reflected the energy and persistence that had subdued
it. I saw nothing ugly. The tidied rice plots, shaped at every possible curve and angle, and
eloquent of centuries of unremitting toil; the upland beyond them, worked to a skilled perfection
of finish; the nesting houses which nowhere offended the eye; the big still ponds contrived
by the rude forefathers of the hamlet for water storage or the succour of the rice in the hottest
weather; the low hilltops green with pine because cultivation could not ascend so far, and
hiding here and there a Shinto sanctuary: such a countryside was satisfying in its own way.

In Chiba, as in other prefectures, one is impressed by the way in which the exertions of many
generations have resulted in the levelling of wide areas and even the complete removal of small
hills. In many places one can still see low hills in process of demolition. In Tokyo itself
several small hills have been carried off in recent years.

I was in Chiba several times and I remember to have noticed one winter day with what considered
roughness the paddies had been dug in order to receive from frost and sun the benefits which
are as good as a manuring. Some notion of the strength of the weather forces at work may be
gathered from the fact that, though I was walking without an overcoat and was glad to shade
my eyes by pulling down the brim of my hat, the frost of the two previous nights had produced
ice on the paddies an inch thick.

Sometimes at the irrigation reservoirs one may see notice boards announcing that these water
areas are stocked with koi (carp). This fish is also kept in the paddies. The carp are put
in as yearlings or two-year-olds, when the paddies are flooded, and a score out of every hundred
come out in the autumn--assuming the happiest conditions--ten inches or so long. Carp culture
flourishes in the sericulture districts, where the pupæ which remain when the cocoons are unwound
are thrown to the fish; but pupæ fed carp have a flavour which diminishes their value. Indeed
paddy-field fish, which on the whole must have a rather troubled existence, do not bring the
price of river carp. Other fish than carp, eels for instance, are also kept in paddies.[206]

I visited a vigorous personality who was at once a landowner and rural oculist, as his father
and grandfather had been before him. He had graduated at Tokyo and had kept himself abreast
of German specialist literature. There was accommodation for about a hundred patients in the
buildings attached to his house. He believed in the efficacy in eye cases of "the air of the
rice fields," not to speak of the shrine which overlooks the patients' quarters. As the number
of blind people in Japan is appalling,[207] it was interesting to hear the opinion that the
chief causes were gonorrhœa, inadequate attention at birth, insufficient nourishment in childhood
and nervous disease--all more or less preventible. Nearly a quarter of my host's patients had
had their eyes wounded by rice-stem points while stooping in the paddies. As the people are
hurt in the busy season they often put off coming for help until it is too late.

The landowner-oculist's premises were lighted by natural gas from a depth of 900 ft. According
to a fellow-guest, who happened to be an expert in this matter, natural gas is to be had all
over Japan.[208]

The room in which I slept belonged to a part of the house which was of great age, but by my
futon there was laid an electric torch.

A pleasant thing during my visit was the presence of a dozen intelligent, kindly students who
early in the evening came and knelt in a semicircle round us, "in order to profit by our talk."
One of them, a son of the house, an athlete (and now, after travelling in Europe, his father's
successor), did all sorts of services for me during my stay, in the simple-hearted fashion
that shows such an attractive side of the Japanese character. One question asked by the students
was, "For what reasons does Sensei believe that the influence of women in public life would
be good?" Another enquiry was, "Which are the best London and Paris papers?" These lads could
hardly hope to get through the university before they were twenty-five or twenty-six. Yet,
compared with our undergraduates, they had very little time for general reading, discussions
and outdoor sports. I remember a man of some experience in the educational world saying to
me, "Our students do not read enough apart from their studies; it is their misfortune." They
have not only the burden of having to learn nearly several thousand ideographs,[209] three
scripts and Japanese and Chinese pronunciation. They have to acquire Western languages, which,
owing to their absolute dissimilarity from Oriental tongues--for example, the word for "I"
is watakushi--must be learnt entirely from memory. It is not that the Japanese student does
not begin early as well as leave off late. A professor once said to me, "For some little time
after I first went to school I was still fed from the bosom of my mother." In some ways it
is no doubt a source of strength for Japan that her men can spend from their earliest years
to the age of twenty-six on the acquirement of knowledge and self-discipline--the privileges
of the student class and the generosity of their families and friends and the public at large
are remarkable--but the disadvantages are plain. No sight seems stranger to a new arrival in
Japan than that of so many men in their middle or late twenties still wearing the conspicuous
kimono and German bandsman cap of the student.

To return to our host, he told us that tenants were "getting clever." They were paying their
rent in "worse and worse qualities of rice." The landlords "encouraged" their tenants with
gifts of tools, clothes or saké in order that they might bring them the best rice, but the
tenants evidently thought it paid better to forgo these benefits and market their best rice.
This raises the question whether rent ought nowadays to be paid in kind. Rural opinion as a
whole is in favour of continuing in the old way, but there is a clear-headed if small section
of rural reformers which is for rent being paid in cash.

One thing I found in my notes of my talk with the landowner-oculist I hesitated to transcribe
without confirmation. Speaking of the physique of the people, he had said that few farmers
could carry the weights their fathers and grandfathers could move about. But later on a high
agricultural authority mentioned to me that it had been found necessary to reduce the weight
of a bale of rice from 19 to 18 kwamme and then to 15--1 kwamme is 8.26 lbs.

In the oaza in which I was staying there were eighty families. Seventy were tenants. Under
a savings arrangement initiated by my host, the hamlet, including its five peasant proprietors,
was saving 120 yen a month. On the other hand, more than half the tenants were in debt "in
connection with family excesses," such as weddings, births and burials. But there might be
unknown savings. I should state that the villagers seemed contented enough.

For some reason or other I was particularly struck by the sturdiness of the small girls. This
was interesting because Chiba had for long an evil reputation for infanticide, and under a
system of infanticide in the Far East it would be supposed--I have heard this view stoutly
questioned--that more girls die than boys. The landowner-oculist was of opinion that in stating
the causes of the low economic condition of his tenants the abating of infanticide must be
put first. People no longer restricted themselves to three of a family. The average area available
locally was only 6 tan of paddy and 1.2 tan of dry land. In a one-crop district in which there
was work for only a part of the year this area was obviously insufficient and there was not
enough dry land for mulberries. Then taxation was now 2-1/2 yen per bale of rice (hyō). A third
of the rice went in rent.

I tried to find out what the oaza might be spending on religion. The Shinto priest seemed to
get 5 sen a month per family, which as there are eighty families would be 48 yen yearly. The
Buddhist priest had land attached to his temple and money was given him at burials and at the
Bon season. The oaza might spend 100 yen a year to send five pilgrims as far away as Yamagata,
on the other side of Japan. The priests did not seem to count for much. "Their only concern
with the public," I was informed, "is to be succoured by it. They are living very painfully.
The Buddhist priests have to send money to their sect at Kyoto." In one of my strolls I passed
the Shinto priest carrying a rice basket and looking, as my companion said, "just like any
other man." At a shrine I saw a number of bowls hung up. A hole cut in the bottom of each seemed
a pathetic symbol of need, material or spiritual.

The keeper of the teahouse in the oaza had been given a small sum by our host to take himself
off, but in the village of which the oaza formed a part there were two teahouses, where ten
times as much was spent as was laid out on religion. No one had ever heard of a case of illegitimacy
in the oaza but there had been in the twelve months three cases which pointed to abortion.
It was five years since there had been an arrest. The young men's association helped twice
a year families whose boys had been conscripted.

According to what I was told in various quarters, some landowners in Chiba did a certain amount
of public work but most devoted themselves to indoor trivialities. The fact that two banks
had recently broken at the next town, one for a quarter of a million yen, and that a landowner
had lost a total of 30,000 yen in these smashes, seemed to show that there was a certain amount
of money somewhere in the district. No one appeared to "waste time on politics." In ten years
"there had been one or two politicians," but "one member of Parliament set a wholesome example
by losing a great deal of money in politics." As to local politics, election to the prefectural
assembly seemed to cost about 500 yen. Membership of the village assembly might mean "a cup
of saké apiece to the electors."

I was assured that this hamlet was above the economic level of the county. The belief was expressed
that it could maintain that position for three or four years. "I do not feel so much anxiety
about the present condition of the people," my host said; "they are passive enough: but as
to the future it is a difficult and almost insoluble question."

"The condition of our rural life is the most difficult question in Japan," said a fellow guest.

In one of the farmers' houses a girl, with the assistance of a younger brother, was weaving
rough matting for baling up artificial manure. Near them two Minorcas were laying in open boxes.
In this family there were seven children, "three or four of whom can work." The hired land
was 8 tan of paddy and 2-1/2 of dry. There was nothing to the good at the end of the year.
Indeed rice had had to be borrowed from the landlord. The family was therefore working merely
to keep itself alive. But it looked cheerful enough. Looking cheerful is, however, a Japanese
habit. The conditions of life here were what many Westerners would consider intolerable. But
it was not Westerners but Orientals who were concerned, and what one had to try to guess was
how far the conditions were satisfactory to Eastern imaginations and requirements. The people
at every house I visited--as it happened to be a holiday the mending of clothing and implements
seemed to be in order--were plainly getting enjoyment from the warm sunshine. Undoubtedly the
long spells of sunshine in the comparatively idle period of the year make hard conditions of
life more endurable.

In a very small house which was little more than a shelter, the father and mother of a tenant
were living. It is not uncommon for old peasants to build a dwelling for themselves when they
get nearly past work, or sometimes after the eldest son marries.

I found a 1-chō peasant proprietor playing go and rather the worse for saké, though it was
early in the morning. A 3-chō proprietor was living in a good-sized house which had a courtyard
and an imposing gateway.

On the thatch of one house I noticed a small straw horse perhaps two feet long. On July 7 such
a horse is taken by young people to the hills, where a bale of grass is tied on its back. On
the reappearance of the figure at the house, dishes of the ceremonial red rice and of the ordinary
food of the family are set before it. "The offering of other than horse food indicates," it
was explained, "that the desire is to keep the straw animal as a little deity." Finally the
horse is flung on the roof.

I went some distance to visit an oaza of twenty families. It was described to me as "well off
and peaceful." Alas, one peasant proprietor had gone to Tokyo, where he had made money, and
on his return had built his second son a house with Tokyo labour instead of with the labour
of his neighbours. So the oaza was "excited with bitter inward animosity." Like our own hamlets,
these oaza in the sunshine, seemingly so peaceful, whisper nothing to townsfolk of their bickerings
and feuds.

One of the thatched mud houses I came to was at once a primitive co-operative sale-and-purchase
society and the clubhouse of the old people of the oaza. The rent the old folk received from
the society was enough to maintain the building. The oldsters gather from time to time in order
to eat, drink and make merry with gossip and dancing. Dancing is a possibility for old people
because it is swaying, sliding and attitudinising, with an occasional stamp of the foot, rather
than hopping and whirling. One of the best amateur dances I have seen was performed by a grandsire.
Such clubhouses, places for the comfort of the ageing and aged, are found in many villages.
Young people are not admitted. The subscription to this particular clubhouse was 2 yen and
3 sho of saké on joining and 2 yen a year.

As we went on our way there was pointed out to me a house the owner of which had sold half
a tan of land for 120 yen and was drinking steadily. He had tried to make money by opening
an open-air village theatre which owing to rain had been a failure.

I visited an oaza where all the land belonged to the man I called upon. He assured me that
most of his tenants "made ends meet." The remainder had a deficiency at the end of the year
due to "lack of will to save" and to their "lack of capital which caused them to pay interest
to manure dealers." A co-operative society had just been started.

In looking at a map of the village to which some of these oaza belonged I noticed many holdings
tinted a special colour. These were called "jump land." They consisted of land subdued from
the wild by strangers. The properties were regarded as belonging to the oaza in which their
cultivators lived.

I walked through a bit of woodland which had formerly been held in common and had been divided
up, amid felicitations no doubt, at the rate of half a tan each to every family. But the well-to-do
people soon got hold of their poorer neighbours' portions.

In a roughish tract I came on burial grounds. One portion was set apart for the eight families
which recognised the chief landlord as their head. The graves of lowlier folk seemed to occur
anywhere. Each grave was covered by a pyramidal mound of sandy earth with a piece of twig stuck
in it. Sometimes a tree had been planted and had grown. A child's grave had some tiny bowls
of food and a clay doll before a little headstone. By way of shelter for these offerings there
was hung on the headstone a peasant's wide straw hat. A large beehive-shaped bamboo basket
over another grave was a reminder of the time when a grave needed such protection in order
to save the body from wild animals.

I saw at a distance in the midst of paddies two tree-covered mounds, a large one and a small
one. They looked like the grave mounds I had seen in China, but it was suggested that they
were probably on an old frontier line and marked spots at which ceremonies for scaring off
disease were performed.

In one place I found the people planting plum trees in order to meet their communal taxation.
It was reckoned that the yield of one tree when it came into full bearing would defray the
taxes of a moderate-sized family.

An open space in a wood was pointed out to me as the spot on which dead horses were formerly
thrown to the dogs and birds. Nowadays notice was given to the Eta that a dead horse was to
be cast away, and they came and, after skinning the animal, buried the body. Farther off, on
the high road, I saw an 8 ft. high monument to a local steed that had died in Manchuria.

One of my further visits to Chiba was in the spring. The paddies, which had been fallow since
November, were under water; but much of the stubble had been turned over with the long-bladed
mattock. The seed beds from which the rice is transplanted to the paddies were a vivid green.
On the high ground I saw good clean crops of barley and wheat, beans and peas, on soil of very
moderate quality.

The name of Funabashi at a station reminded me of a Japanese friend having told me that it
was "famous for a shrine and a very immoral place." But I afterwards heard that the keeper
of that shrine, "acting from conscientious motives, gave up his lucrative post and died a poor
man." It is said of one of the most sacred places in Japan that it is also the "most immoral."
Kyoto which contains nine hundred shrines is also supposed to harbour several thousand women
of bad character.

I passed a place where 25,000 Russian prisoners had been detained. There was an old peasant
there who told his son that he could not understand why so many Japanese went abroad at such
great cost to see the different peoples of the world. If they would only stay at home, he said,
they would see them all in turn, for first there had been the Chinese prisoners, then the Russians
and now there were the Germans.

In the uplands it was peaceful and restful to walk through the shady lanes between the tree-studded
homesteads or along the road passing between plots of mulberry, tea, vegetables or grain, cultivated
with the care given to plants in a garden. In the herbage by the roadside, but not among the
crops I need hardly say, I noticed dandelions, sow thistles, Scots thistles, plantains and
some other familiar weeds.

In the paddies some men wore only a narrow band of red cotton between their legs joined to
a waist string, which, though convenient wear in paddies, was comically conspicuous. I recall
a friend's story of a little foreign girl of seven who stayed with her mother in a Japanese
hamlet and struck up a friendship with a kindly old peasant. One hot summer day the child came
home carrying all her scanty garments over her arm, and covered with mud to the waist. In answer
to her mother's enquiries the child said, "Well, mother, Ito San has all his clothes off, and
I could not go into the paddy to help him with mine on."

I visited an elementary school which was little more than a shed. The roofing was of bark and
the paper-covered window shutters were of the roughest. It said much for the stamina of the
children that they could sit there in bleak weather. An attempt had been made to shut off the
classes from one another by pieces of thin cotton sheeting fastened to a string. But such essential
furniture, from a hygienic point of view, as benches with backs had been provided, for it is
considered by the national educational authorities that kneeling in the Japanese manner is
inimical to physical development. I noticed, also, that when the children sang they had been
taught to place their hands on their hips in order that their chests might benefit from the
vocal exercise. The earnestness and kindliness of the men and women teachers were evident.
All the teachers came to school bare-foot on geta.[210]

The sea was not far off and we went to the beach where there was nothing between us and America.
My companion and I were carried over shallows on the backs of fishermen, wonderful bronze-coloured
figures. Above high-water mark heaps of small fish were drying. They were to be turned into
oil and fish-waste manure. I saw an earthenware vase with a hole in the bottom like a flowerpot
and found that it was used, with a rope attached to the rim, for catching octopus. When the
octopus comes across such a vase on the sea bottom he regards it as a shelter constructed on
exactly the right principles and takes up his abode therein. He is easily captured, for he
refuses to let go his vase when it is brought to the surface. Indeed the only way to dislodge
him is to pour hot water through the hole in the bottom of his upturned tenement.

FOOTNOTES:

[203] The Japanese firepot, which is made of wood or porcelain as well as metal, contains pieces
of charcoal smouldering in wood ash.

[204] I saw poultry of the table breeds which we call Indian Game or Malay; the Japanese call
them Siamese.

[205] See Appendix LVIII.

[206] In 1918 carp was produced to the value of a million and a half yen and eels to the value
of nearly a million.

[207] See Appendix LIX.

[208] See Appendix LX.

[209] To cite a word already used in these pages, there are half a dozen words spelt ko and
as many as fourteen spelt kō, but all have a different ideograph. When the prolongation of
the educational course by the ideographs is dwelt on, it is wholesome for us to remember Professor
Gilbert Murray's declaration that "English spelling entails a loss of one year in the child's
school time." Other authorities have considered the loss to be much more.

[210] For statistics of stamina, heights and weights of children, see Appendix LXI.

CHAPTER XXXV

THE HUSBANDMAN, THE WRESTLER AND THE CARPENTER

(SAITAMA, GUMMA AND TOKYO)

We are here to search the wounds of the realm, not to skim them over.--BACON

One day in the third week of October when the roads were sprinkled with fallen leaves I made
an excursion into the Kwanto plain and passed from the prefecture of Tokyo into that of Saitama.[211]
The weather now made it necessary for Japanese to wear double kimonos. During the middle of
the day, however, I was glad to walk with my jacket over my arm, and many little boys and girls
were running about naked. The region visited had a naturally well-drained dark soil, composed
of river silt, of volcanic dust and of humus from buried vegetation, and it went down to a
depth beyond the need of the longest daikon (giant radish). Sweet potatoes and taro were still
on the ground, and large areas, worked to a perfect tilth, had been sown or were in course
of preparation for winter wheat and barley; but the most conspicuous crop was daikon. There
were miles and miles of it at all sorts of stages from newly transplanted rows to roots ready
for pulling. There is daikon production up to the value of about a million yen. In addition
to the roots sent into Tokyo, there is a large export trade in daikon salted in casks.

I came into a district where there was a system of alternate grain and wood crops. The rotation
was barley and wheat for three or four years, then fuel wood for about fifteen. The tendency
was to lengthen the corn period in the rotation.

The women even as near Tokyo as this wore blue cotton trousers like the men. One farm-house
I entered was a century old but it had not been more than forty years on its present site.
It had been transported three miles. I was once more impressed by the low standard of living.
If by this time I had not been getting to know something of the ways of the farmers I should
have found it difficult to credit the fact that a household I visited was worth ten thousand yen.

Sweet potatoes are here much the most important crop. They were bringing the farmer in Tokyo
a little over a yen the 82 lbs. bale. The consumer was paying double that. Not a few of the
farmers were cultivating as much as 5 chō or even 8 chō, for there was little paddy. Even then,
I was told, "it's a very hard life for a third of the farmers." The reason was that there was
no remunerative winter employment.

Before the Buddhist temple, where there was preaching twice a year, were rows of little stone
figures, many of which had lost their heads. The heads were in much demand among gamblers who
value them as mascots. Among some mulberry plots belonging to different owners I saw a little
wooden shrine, evidently for the general good. It was there, it was explained, "not because
of belief but of custom." The evening was drawing in and Fuji showed itself blue and mystical
above the dark greenery of the country. As I gazed a sweet-sounding gong was struck thrice
in the temple. Three times a day there is heard this summons to other thoughts than those of
the common task.

My companion entered into conversation with a decent middle-aged pedestrian, neatly but poorly
dressed, and found that he was a man who had formerly pulled his kuruma in Tokyo. The man had
found the work of a kurumaya too much for him and had withdrawn to his village to open a tiny
shop. But he had been taken ill and had been removed to hospital. When he came out he found
that his wife was in poverty and that his eldest son had been summoned to serve in the army.
Now his wife had become ill and he was on his way to a distant relative to ask him to take
charge of a small child and to help him with a little money to start some petty business. My
companion gave him a yen and deplored the fact that poor people should fail to take advantage
of the law releasing from service a son required for the support of a parent. They failed occasionally
to find friends to represent their case to the authorities.

While waiting at the station we talked with another old man. He had come to see his daughter
whose husband had been called up for two years' service. She was living of course with her
parents-in-law. He said that his daughter would have no difficulty in keeping the farm going
during the young man's absence, but his being away was "a great loss."

The old man, who squatted at our feet as he spoke, went on to tell us about a young man of
his village who had served his term in the navy but thought of remaining for another term.
"Gran'fer" thought it a good opening for him; he would not only get his living and clothes
but--and this is characteristic--"see the world and send back interesting letters." The ancient
was specially interested in the sailor, he said, because his wife had "given milk" to the adventurer
when an infant.

It is difficult to enter a village which has not its pillar or its slab to the memory of a
youth or youths who perished in the Russian or Chinese wars.[212] But in the severe struggle
with Russia the villages did more than give their sons and build memorials to them when they
were killed. They tried, in the words of an official circular of that time, "to preserve the
spirit of independence in the hearts of the relieved and to avoid the abuses of giving out
ready money." There was the secret ploughing society of the young men of a village in Gumma
prefecture. "Either at night or when nobody knew these young men went out and ploughed for
those who were at the front." In one prefecture the school children helped in working soldiers'
farms. In villages in Osaka and Hyogo prefectures there was given to soldiers' families the
monopoly of selling tofu, matches and other articles. Some of the societies which laboured
in war time were the Women's One Heart Society, the Women's Chivalrous Society, the National
Backing Society and the Nursing Place of Young Children of those Serving at the Front.

In the train we talked of the hardiness induced by not being the slave of clothing. When it
rains kuruma men and workmen habitually roll up their kimonos round their loins, or if they
are wearing trousers, take them off.[213] Of course no Japanese believes in catching cold through
getting his feet wet. This is a condition which is continually experienced, for the cotton
tabi are wet through at every shower. Some years back it was not uncommon in walking along
the sea-beach at night to find fishermen sleeping out on the sand. An old man told me that
it used to be the custom in his sea-shore hamlet for all members of a family to sleep on the
beach except fathers, mothers and infants.

On my return from the country I found myself in a company of earnest rural reformers who were
discussing a plan of State colonisation for the inhabitants of some villages where everything
had been lost in a volcanic eruption. Families had been given a tract of forest land, 15 yen
for a cottage, 45 yen for tools and implements and the cost of food for ten months (reckoned
at 8 sen per adult and 7 sen per child per day). During the evening I was shown the figure
of a goddess of farming venerated by the afflicted folk. The deity was represented standing
on bales of rice, with a bowl of rice in her left hand and a big serving spoon in her right.

The gathering discussed the question of rural morality. As to the relations of the young men
and women of the villages, to which there has necessarily been frequent references in these
pages, the reader must always bear in mind the way in which the sexes are normally kept apart
under the influence of tradition. In nothing does this Japanese countryside differ more noticeably
from our own than in the fact that joyous young couples are never seen arming each other along
the road of an evening. Thousands of allusions in our rural songs and poetry, innumerable scenes
in our genre pictures, speak of blissful hours of which Japan gives no sign. There is no courting;
there are in the public view no "random fits of dallin'." An unmarried young man and young
woman do not walk and talk together. A young man and woman who were together of an evening
would be suspected of immorality. Even when married they would not think of linking arms on
the road. I was a beholder of a family reunion at a railway station in which a young wife met
her young husband returned from abroad. There were merely repeated bows and many smiles. The
view taken of kissing in Japan is shown by the fact that an issue of a Tokyo periodical was
prohibited by the police because it contained an allusion to it. We are helped to understand
the Japanese standpoint a little if we remember how repugnant to English and American ideas
is the Continental custom of men kissing one another. Kissing is understood by the Japanese
to be a sexual act, as is shown by their word for it.

Early in November in the neighbourhood of Tokyo, where three crops are taken in the year and
sometimes four or five, I found between the rows of growing winter barley two lines of green
stuff which would be cleared off as the barley rose. The barley was sown in clumps of two dozen
or even thirty plants, each clump being about a foot apart, and liberally treated with liquid
manure. In Saitama 100 bushels per acre has been produced by a good farmer. The clump method
of sowing is believed to afford greater protection against the weather. (Outside the volcanic-soil
area ordinary sowing in rows is common.) The volcanic soil, as one sees in spots where excavations
have been made, is originally light yellow. The humus introduced by the liberal applications
of manure has made it black.

I came upon a hollow in some low hills, studded with trees and overlooking Tokyo Bay, which
had been secured for the building of an elaborate series of temples at a cost of three million
yen. Acres of grounds were being laid out with genius. The buildings were of that beautiful
simplicity which marks the edifices of the Zen sect. The construction was in the hands of some
of the cleverest master craftsmen in Japan. The work was to be spread over four years. A great
hoarding displayed thousands of wooden tablets bearing the names and the amounts of the subscriptions
of the faithful. In one of the completed temples a kindly priest was preaching. He added to
the force of his gestures by the use of a fan. He was being attentively listened to by an intelligent-looking
congregation. I caught the injunction that in the attainment of goodness aspiration was little
worth without will.

The method of announcing subscriptions on hoardings was also adopted outside the new primary
school near by. The subscriptions were from a hundred yen to one yen. The charge to scholars
at this school, I found, was 10 sen per month during the first compulsory six years and 30
sen during the next two years.

Just after Christmas I walked again into the country. There were miles of dreary brown paddies
with the stubble in puddles. On the non-paddy land there was the refreshing green of young
corn which seemed greatly to enjoy being treated as a garden plant in a deep exquisitely worked
soil with never a weed in an acre. But children were kept from school because their parents
could not get along without their help. Many of the school teachers seemed as poor as the farmers.
As I passed the farm-houses in the evening they seemed bleak and uninviting. In the fire hole[214]
of every house, however, there was a generous blaze and the bath tub out-of-doors was steaming
for the customary evening hot dip in the opening.

In my host's house I noticed an old painting of a forked daikon. Such malformed roots used
to be presented to shrines by women desirous of having children.

In the office of one village I visited I was permitted to examine the dossiers of some of the
inhabitants. Among a host of other particulars about a certain person's origin and condition
I read that he was a minor when his father died, that such and such a person acted as his guardian,
that the guardianship ended on such and such a date, and that his widowed mother had a child
nine years after her husband's death.

In not a few places I found that the tiny shrines of hamlets (aza) had been taken away and
grouped together at a communal shrine with the notion of promoting local solidarity. At one
such combination of shrines I saw notice boards intimating that "tramps, pedlars, wandering
priests and other carriers of subscription lists and proselytisers" were not received in the
village. It was explained that a community was sometimes all of one faith: "therefore it does
not want to be disturbed by tactless preachers of other beliefs."

At an inn there was a middle-aged widow who served there as waitress in the summer but in the
winter returned to Tokyo, where she employed a number of girls in making haori tassels. (She
gave them board and lodging and clothes for two years, and, after that period, wages.[215])
Remembering what I had written down about courting, I asked for her mature judgment on our
rural custom of "walking out." She was amused, but, in that way the Japanese have of trying
to look at a Western custom on its merits, she said, after consideration, that there was much
to be said for the plan. "In Japan," she declared, "you cannot know a husband's character until
you are married. On the whole, I wish I had been a man." In order to catch our train we had
to leave this inn the moment our meal was finished, although the widow quoted to us the adage,
"Rest after a meal even if your parents are dead."

On a morning in May I went into the country to visit a friend who was taking a holiday in a
ramshackle inn 4,000 ft. up Mount Akagi. I continually heard the note of the kakkō (cuckoo).
On the higher parts of the mountain there were azaleas at every yard, some quite small but
others 12 or even 15 ft. high. Many had been grazed by cattle. Big cryptomeria were plentiful
part of the way up, but at the top there were no trees but diminutive oaks, birches and pines,
stunted and lichen covered, the topmost branches broken off by the terrific blasts which from
time to time sweep along the top of the extinct volcano.

One of the products of rural Japan is the wrestler. Sumo, which is going on in every school
and college of the country, exhibits its perfect flower twice a year in the January and May
ten-days-long tournaments in the capital. The immense rotunda of the wrestlers' association
suggests a rather rickety Albert Hall and holds 13,000 people.[216] On the day I went in I
paid 2 yen and had only standing room. Everybody knows the more than Herculean proportions
of the wrestlers in comparison with the rest of their countrymen. The rigorous training, Gargantuan
feeding and somewhat severe discipline of the wrestlers enable them to grow beyond the average
stature and to a girth, protected by enormously developed abdominal muscles, which reinforces
strength with great weight.[217]

I had often the opportunity at a railway station or in a train to witness the easy carriage
and magnificent pride of these massive, good-tempered men. There is not in the world, probably,
a more remarkable illustration than they afford of what superior physical training and superior
feeding can do. At first sight, indeed, these gigantic creatures seem to belong to a different
race. It is no wonder that they should be so commonly proteges of the rich and distinguished.
When an eminent wrestler retired in the year in which I first saw a good wrestling bout the
ceremony of cutting his hair--for, like Samson, the wrestler wears his hair long--was performed
by a personage who combined the dignities of an admiral and a peer. There is nothing of the
bruiser in the looks of the smooth-faced wrestlers. Many, however, are the bruises to their
bodies and to their self-esteem which they receive in their disciplinary progress from the
contests of their native villages through all the grades of their profession to the highest
rank. Their sexual morality is commonly of the lowest.

In my own hamlet at home in England I have seen the shoemaker, tailor and carpenter successively
pass away; the only craftsman left is the smith. In Japan the hereditary craftsman survives
for a while. I watched in my house one day the labours of such a worker. He was not arrayed
in a Sunday suit fallen to the greasy bagginess of everyday wear, topped by a soiled collar.
He appeared in a blue cotton jacket-length kimono and tight-fitting trousers of the same stuff,
and both garments, which were washed at least once a week, were admirably fitted to their wearer's
work. Almost the same rig was worn by our own medieval and pre-medieval workmen. The carpenter
had on the back of his coat the name of his master or guild in decorative Chinese characters
in white. There are nowadays in the cities many inferior workers, but all the men who came
to my house worked with rapidity and concentration, hardly ever lifting their eyes from their
jobs. The dexterity of the Japanese workman is seldom exaggerated. To his dexterity he adds
the considerable advantage of having more than two hands, for he uses his feet together or
singly. His supple big toes are a great possession. We have lost the use of ours, but the Japanese
artisan, accustomed from his youth to tabi with a special division for the big toe, and to
geta, which can be well managed only when the big toe is lissom, uses his toes as naturally
as a monkey, with his paws and mouth full of nuts, gives a few to his feet to hold. The first
sight of a foot holding a tool is uncanny.

The pitiful thing is that a modest, polite, cheerful, industrious, skilful, and in the best
sense of the word artistic hereditary craftsmanship is proving only too easy a prey to the
new industrial system. It is a sad reflection that the country which, owing to her long period
of seclusion, had the opportunity of applying to all the things of common life so remarkable
a skill and artistry, should be so little conscious of the pace at which her industrial rake's
progress is proceeding, so insensible to the degree to which she is prodigally sacrificing
that which, when it is lost to her, can never be recovered. It is no doubt true that when our
own handicrafts were dying we also were insensitive. But because the Middle Ages in England
encountered the industrial system gradually we suffered our loss more slowly than Japan is
doing. Because, too, we never had in our bustling history the long periods of immunity from
home and foreign strife by which Japanese craftsmanship profited so wonderfully, we may not
have had such large stores of precious skill and taste to squander as New Japan, the spendthrift
of Old Japan's riches, is unthinkingly casting away.

It is at Christmas at home that we have in the Christmas tree our reminder of the country.
It is on New Year's Day that in Japan a pine tree is set up on either side of the front gate,
but there are three bamboos with it, and the four trunks are all beautifully bound together
with rope. If the ground be too hard for the trees to be stuck in the ground, they are kept
upright by having a dozen heavy pieces of wood, not unlike fire logs, neatly bound round them.
The pines may be about 10 ft. high, the bamboo about 15 ft. To the trees are affixed the white
paper gohei. Over the doorway itself is an arrangement of straw, an orange, a lobster, dried
cuttlefish and more gohei. A less expensive display consists of a sprig of pine and bamboo.
Poor people have to be content with a yard-high pine branch with a French nail through it at
either side of their doorway. I have been ruralist enough to harbour thoughts of the extent
to which the woods are raided for all this New Year forestry. Some prefectures, in the sincerity
of their devotion to afforestation, forbid the New Year destruction of pine trees.

I remember the gay and elaborate dressing of the horses during the New Year holidays. I saw
one driver of a wagon who was not content with tying streamers on every part of his horse where
streamers could be tied: he had also decorated himself, even to the extent of having had his
head cropped to a special pattern, tracts of hair and bare scalp alternating.

It was pleasant to learn that a fine chrysanthemum show arranged in an open space in Tokyo
was free to the public. Some plants, by means of grafting, bore flowers of half a dozen different
varieties. Several plants had been wondrously trained into the form of kuruma, etc. Not a few
of the varieties exhibited were, according to our ideas, atrocious in colouring, but many were
beautiful and all were marvels of cultivation. Even greater manipulative and horticultural
skill was represented in the chrysanthemums I saw at the Imperial garden party. A chief of
a department of the Ministry of Agriculture told me that from a chrysanthemum growing in the
ground it was possible to have a thousand blooms.

In a Japanese room the timber upright alongside the tokonoma is always a tree trunk in the
rough. If it be cherry it has its bark on. The contrast with the finely finished wood of the
rest of the room is arresting. It is said that the use of the unplaned upright is not more
than three or four hundred years old and that it had its origin in Cha-no-yu affectations of
simplicity.

I was visited one evening by an agricultural official who had returned from a visit to Great
Britain. He spoke of the "lonelyism" of our best hotels. In a Japanese hotel of the same class
one's room is so simple and the view of the garden is so refreshing that, with the beautiful
flower arrangement indoors, the frequent change of kakemono, the serving of one's meals in
a different set of lacquer and porcelain each day and the willing and smiling service always
within the call of a hand clap, there comes a sense of restfulness and peace. The drawback
which the Western man experiences is the lack of any means of resting his back but by lying
down and the inability to read for long while resting an elbow on an arm rest which is too
low for him.[218] A Japanese often reads kneeling before a table.

Here I am reminded to say that the development of the desire for books and newspapers in the
rural districts is a noticeable thing, if only because it is new. It is not so long ago that
reading was considered to be an occupation for old men and women and for children. The samurai
had few books and the farmers fewer still. But the idea of combining cultivation and culture
was not unknown. I have heard a rural student humbly quote the old saying, Sei-kō U-doku (literally,
"Fine weather--farming--Rainy weather--reading").

I have a rural note of one of my visits to the Nō.[219] One farce brought on an inferior priest
of a sect which is now extinct but surely deserves to be remembered for its encouragement of
mountain climbing. This "mountain climber," as he was called, was hungry and climbed a farmer's
tree in order to steal persimmons. (The actor got on a stool, obligingly steadied by a supposedly
invisible attendant, and pretended to clamber up a corner post of the stage.) While he was
eating the persimmons he was discovered by their owner. The farmer was a man of humour and
said that he thought that "that must be a crow in the tree." So the poor priest tried to caw.
"No," said the farmer, "it is surely a monkey." So the priest began to scratch after the manner
of monkeys. "But perhaps," the farmer went on, "it is really a kite." The priest flapped his
arms--and fell. The farmer thought that he had the priest at his mercy. But the priest, rubbing
his beads together, put a spell on him and escaped. The word Nō is written with an ideograph
which means ability, but Nō also stands for agriculture.[220]

FOOTNOTES:

[211] The Kwanto plain (73 by 96 miles) includes most of Tokyo and Saitama prefecture, and
also the larger part of Kanagawa and Chiba and parts of Ibaraki, Gumma and Tochigi.

[212] The characters on these slabs are beautifully written. They have usually been penned
by distinguished men.

[213] The Japanese man wears below his kimono or trousers a pair of bathing shorts. Peasants
frequently wear in the fields nothing but a little cotton bag and string.

[214] Poor households ordinarily use, instead of movable hibachi, a big square box in an opening
in the floor and resting on the earth.

[215] When I was in Tokyo, tradesmen's messenger boys received only their food, lodging and
clothing and an occasional present, with help no doubt in starting a linked business when they
were out of their time. Now such youths, as a development of the labour movement, are on a
wage basis and receive 20 yen a month.

[216] The place has since been burnt down. A bigger building has been erected.

[217] See Appendix LXII.

[218] There is also the occasional whiff of the benjo; but, as an agricultural expert said,
"It is not a bad thing that a people which is increasingly under the influence of industrialism
should be compelled to give a thought to agriculture." There are European countries famous
for their farming whose sanitary experts are evidently similarly minded.

[219] The fact that Dr. Waley's scholarly book is the third work on the Nō to be published
in England in recent years is evidence that a knowledge of a form of lyrical drama of rare
artistry is gradually extending in the West.

[220] Hence the names of the two national agricultural organisations, Teikoku Nōkai, that is
the Imperial Agricultural Society, and Dai Nippon Nōkai, that is the Great Japan Agricultural
Society.

CHAPTER XXXVI

"THEY FEEL THE MERCY OF THE SUN"

(GUMMA, KANAGAWA AND CHIBA)

I find the consolation of life in things with which Governments cannot interfere, in the light
and beauty the earth puts forth for her children. If the universe has any meaning, it exists
for the purposes of soul.--Æ

One December night there walked into my house a professor of agricultural politics, clad in
tweeds and an overcoat, and with him a man who wore only a cotton kimono and a single under-garment.
The sunburnt forehead of this man showed that he was not in the habit of wearing a hat. There
is a smiling Japanese face which to many foreigners is merely irritating. It is not less irritating
when, as often happens, it displays bad teeth ostentatiously gold-stopped. This man's smile
was sincere and he had beautiful teeth. His hands were nervous and thin, his bearing was natural
and his voice gentle. Here, evidently, was an altruist, perhaps a zealot, probably a celibate.
He was introduced as a rural religionist from Gumma prefecture set on reforming his countrymen.
It is important to know the strength of the reforming power which Japan is itself generating:
here was a man who for eight years had lived a life of poverty in remote regions and had shaped
his life by three heroes, "St. Francis, Tolstoy and Kropotkin." He believed that the way to
influence people was "to work with them." He lived on his dole as a junior teacher in an elementary
school. His food, which he cooked himself, was chiefly rice and miso. He had been a vegetarian
for ten years. He was twenty-nine.

He said that as far as the people of his village--largely peasant proprietors who hired additional
land--were concerned, "It is happy for them if they end the year without debt." I asked how
the men in the village who owned land but did not work it spent their time. The reply was:
"They are chattering of many things, very trivial things, and they disturb the village. They
drink too much and they have concubines or women elsewhere."

"If an ordinary peasant went to the next town to see women there," the speaker continued, "young
men of the village would go and give him a good knock. In former times 'waitresses' were highly
spoken of in the village, but not now. There are some young men who may go at night to a house
where there are young girls in the family and open the door. Sometimes they bring cucumbers.
Cucumbers are symbols. Some do this out of fun and some sincerely to express their feelings.
If the young men who do such a thing do it out of fun they are given a good knock by members
of that house when discovered. If they are sincere the members of the family will smile. There
are in our village of 6,000 inhabitants only four illegitimate children."

As to the influences exerted for the betterment of the people the follower of St. Francis was
convinced that "when Buddhist influence, Shintoism, Confucianism and the good customs of our
race are all mixed together so that you cannot discern one from the other we have some living
power." His own religion was "that of St. Francis combined with Buddhism."

Speaking generally of rural people my visitor said: "They are falling into miserable conditions,
are in effect spending what was accumulated by their ancestors. Their houses are not so practical
and cost more. They think they live better but their physical condition is not better. The
number who cannot earn much is increasing." I was told of a growing habit among village boys
of running off to Tokyo without their parents' permission. And bands of girls came to the district
to help in the silk-worm season "often without their parents' approval."

Many villagers consulted my visitor on all sorts of subjects until he had almost no leisure.
Some wanted counsel about the future of their children, some desired advice about the family
debt, some wanted to know how to put an end to quarrels and some asked "how a man will be able
to be easy-minded." The ordinary result of the primary school system was "a mass of many informations
in young brains and they cannot tell wisdom from knowledge. The result is that they are discontented
with their hard lot. They grow up wishing to rob each other within the bounds of the law. They
want to live comfortably without hard work. Good customs which were the crystallisation of
the experience of our race are dying away."

My visitor had met an old woman on the road clad miserably. She earned as a labourer on a farm,
beside her board and lodging, 25 sen daily. Of this sum she handed to a fellow-villager whom
she trusted 20 sen. He gave away many clothes to the poor and her contribution was used with
the money he expended. "If," said she, "one shall give to God a small thing in darkness then
it is accepted to its full value, but, if it be known, it is accepted only at a small value."
She was "content and quite happy."

This woman and many others in the district had a primitive kind of religion. They observed
the days called "waiting for the sun" and "waiting for the moon." "The same-minded people gather.
The one most deeply experienced tells something to those assembled and they begin to be imbued
with the same spirit. It is some kind of transformed worship of the sun god. They feel the
mercy of the sun. They do not worship the heavenly bodies but as the symbol of the merciful
universe. These people take meals together several times in a year. They talk not only on spiritual
but on common things and about the news in the papers. It may seem to a stranger that what
they talk is foolish, but they have a wonderful power to attract the essential out of those
trifles."

"The fundamental power which made Japan what it is," the speaker went on with animation, "is
not institutions and statesmen, but those primitive religious acts. The people strongly resembling
the old woman I spoke of may be only 1 per cent., but almost all villagers are imbued with
such religious notions and feel thankfulness, and on rare occasions a latent sentiment springs
from their hearts. Their religion may be connected with Buddhism or Shintoism; it is not Buddhism
or Shintoism, however, but a primitive belief which in its manifestation varies much in different
villages. For example, in one village the good deeds of an ancient sage are told. The time
when that priest lived and particulars about him are getting dimmer and dimmer, but his influence
is still considerable. Though many people are worshipped in national and prefectural shrines
the influence of those enshrined is small compared with the influence of a man or woman of
the past who was not much celebrated but was thought to be good by the rustic people.

"Think of the way in which the memory of the maid-servant Otake is worshipped by the peasants
through one-half of Japan. That was a pious and illuminated person who worked very hard. As
her uta (poem) says, 'Though hands and feet are very busy at work, still I can praise and follow
God always because my mind and heart are not occupied by worldly things.' She ate poor food
and gave her own food to beggars. So when a countryman wastes the bounty of nature he is still
reprimanded by the example of that maid-servant. She is more respected than many great men."

My visitor thought a religious revival might happen under the leadership of a Christian or
of a Buddhist, or of a man who "united Buddhism and Christianity" or "developed the primitive
form of faith among the lower people." He thought there were "already men in the country who
might be these leaders." He said that much might happen in ten years. "Materialism is prevalent
everywhere, but people will begin to feel difficulties in following their materialism. When
they cannot go any further with it they will begin to be awakened."

And then this young man who sincerely desires to do something with his life and has at any
rate made a beginning went his way. Up and down Japan I met several single-hearted men not
unlike him.

One day I made an excursion from Tokyo and came on an extraordinary avenue of small wooden
red painted torii, gimcracky things made out of what a carpenter would call "two by two stuff."
By the time I got to the shrine to which the torii led I must have passed a thousand of these
erections. In one spot there was a stack of torii lying on their sides. The shrine was in honour
of the fox god and there was a curious story behind it. Twenty years before a man interested
in the "development" of the district had caused it to be given out that foxes, the messengers
of the god Inari, had been seen on this spot in the vicinity of a humble shrine to that divinity.
The farmers were continually questioned about the matter. It was suggested that the god was
manifesting his presence. In the end more and more worshippers came, and, with the liberal
assistance of the speculator, a fine new shrine was erected in place of the shabby one. His
hand was also seen in the building of a big burrow--of concrete--for the comfort of the god's
messenger. The top of the burrow also furnished an excellent view of the surrounding district,
and teahouses were built in the vicinity. Indeed in a year or two quite a village of teahouses
came into existence. The place, which was on the sea-coast, had become a kind of Southend or
Coney Island, and attracted thousands of visitors.

A large proportion of these teahouses would have great difficulty in establishing a claim to
respectability. Numbers of lamps which crowded the space before the shrine were the gifts of
women of bad character and the inscriptions on these gifts bore the addresses and profession
of the donors. The final irony was the provision of a tram service for the convenience of those
who wished to worship at another altar than that of the fox god. Although most of the visitors
found the chief attraction of the place in the teahouses,[221] they were none the less devout.
Every visitor to the teahouses worshipped at the shrine.

What do those who bow their heads and throw their Coppers in the treasury pray for? "Well-being
to my family and prosperity to my business" was, I was told, a common form of invocation. Even
among not a few reasonably well educated people there is a conviction that prayers made at
the altar of the fox god are peculiarly efficacious. Kanzō Uchimura, who accompanied me on
this trip, improved the occasion by saying in his vigorous English: "You in the West have some
difficulty, no doubt, in understanding the fierceness of the indignation with which Old Testament
prophets denounce heathen gods. When you behold such an exhibition as this you may be helped
to understand. Here is impurity under divine protection, and this place may fairly be called
a fashionable shrine. The visitor to Japan often vaunts himself on being broadminded. He regards
heathendom as only another sect and he desires to be respectful to it. But I want to show you
that it is not a case of only another sect but often a case of gross and demoralising superstition
and priestly countenancing of immorality. Heaven forbid that I should deny the beauty of the
idea of the foxes being the messengers of divinity or that I should suggest that some religious
feelings may not inspire and some religious feeling may not reward the sincere devotion of
the countryman to his fox god, but how much does it amount to in sum?"

I thought of what Uchimura had said when one day, in the course of a walk with his critic,
Yanagi (Chapter XI), I was shown a shrine pitifully bedizened by the waraji (straw sandals)
and ema[222] of a thousand or more pilgrims who were suffering or had recovered from syphilis.[223]

During our conversation Yanagi said: "Shintoism is not of course a religion at all. It draws
great strength from the national instinct for cleanliness manifested by people living in a
hot climate. The religion of poor people is largely custom; I complain of educated people not
that they are sceptical but that they are not sceptical enough. They simply don't care. According
to Mr. Uchimura, there is only one way to God and that is through Christianity. But there are
many ways. A personal religion like Christianity is more effective than Buddhism, but it does
not follow that Christianity is better than Buddhism. I find I get to like Mr. Uchimura more
and more and his views less and less. It is not his theoretical Christianity but his courageous
spirit which attracts. He is a courageous man and we have very great need of morally courageous
men. Although Christianity is impossible without Christ, Buddhism is possible without Buddha.
A variety of religions is not harmful, and we have to take note of the Christian temperament
and the Buddhistic temperament. Orientals can only be appealed to by an Oriental religion.
Christianity is an Oriental religion no doubt, but it has been Westernised. It must always
be borne in mind that Buddhistic literature is in a special language and that it is difficult
for most people to get a general view of Buddhism."

In further talk the speaker said that in Japan the individual had not been separated from the
mass. But it was difficult to exaggerate the swiftness of the national development. The newer
Russian writers were "certainly as well known in England, possibly better known." As to Tolstoy
alone, there were at least fifty books about him. But it had to be admitted that, generally
speaking, the Japanese development though rapid had not gone deep. In painting there was dexterity
and technique but few men knew where they were going. Their work was "surface beautiful." They
had not passed the stage of Zorn.

We spoke of conscription and I said that it had not escaped my attention that many young men
showed an increasing desire to avoid military service. From a single person I had heard of
youths who had escaped by looking ill--through a week's fasting--by impairing their eyesight
by wearing strong glasses for a few weeks, by contriving to be examined in a fishing village
where the standard of physique was high, or by shamming Socialist.[224] Many Japanese bear
uncomplainingly the heavy burden of the military system. But the others are to be reckoned with.

Said one of these to me: "We Japanese are not inherently a warlike people and have no desire
to be militarists; but we are suffering from German influence not only in the army but through
the middle-aged legal, scientific and administrative classes who were largely educated in Germany
or influenced by German teaching. This German influence may have been held in check to some
extent, perhaps, by the artistic world, which has certainly not been German, except in relation
to music, and after all that is the best part of Germany. Many young people have taken their
ideas largely from Russia; more from the United States and Great Britain. But Germany will
always make her appeal on account of her reputation with us for system, order, industry, depth
of knowledge, persistence and nationalism."

On the family system, the study of which was more than once urged upon me in connection with
the rural problem, this statement was made to me by an agricultural expert: "I will tell you
the story of an official whose salary was that of a Governor. His father was a farmer. The
farmer borrowed money to educate his son. When the son became an official he paid the money
back, but on the small salaries he received this repayment was a strain. Then two brothers
came to his house frequently for money, and when they received it spent it in ridiculous ways.
This begging has gone on for nine years. My friend has to live not like an Excellency but like
a gunchō. He cannot treat his wife and children fairly. But of the money he gives to his brothers
he says, 'It is my family expense.'"

I also heard this story: "A married B. B died without having any children. A next married B's
sister, C. Then, because of the necessity of having a male heir for the maintenance of his
family, and because he thought it was unlikely that his wife C would have children as her dead
sister B had had none, he adopted his wife's younger brother, D. But the wife C did have children.
Consequently, not only is A's wife his sister-in-law and his eldest 'son' his wife's brother,
but his children are his eldest 'son's' nephews. The eldest of these children, E, is legally
the younger son. He says, 'I am glad that instead of an uncle I have an elder brother. I am
much attached to him and he is attached to me. I am not sorry to be younger instead of elder
brother, for when my father dies my adopted brother will become head of the family and he must
then bring up his younger brothers and sisters, manage the family fortunes, bear the family
troubles and keep all the cousins and uncles in good humour by inviting them occasionally and
at other times by visiting them and giving them presents.'[225]

"It is obvious that our family system, for speaking in criticism of which officials have been
dismissed from their posts, puts too much stress on the family and too little on the individual.
The family is the unit of society. Any member of it is only a fraction of that unit. For the
sake of the family every member of it must sacrifice almost everything.[226] Sometimes the
development of the individual character and individual initiative is checked by the family
system. An eldest son is often required to follow his father's calling irrespective of his
tastes. Nowadays some eldest sons go abroad, but their departure attracts attention and you
seldom find such a thing happening among farmers. The family system, by which all is subordinated
to family, is convenient to farmers for it means increased labour and economy of living. Sometimes
there may be two married sons living at home and then there is often strife. Generally speaking,
the family system at one and the same time keeps young men from striking out in the world and
compels their early marriage so that the helping hands to the family may be more numerous.
The family system concentrates the attention on the family and not on society. There is no
energy left for society.

"Again, the family system gives too much power to relatives and leads to disagreeable interference.
In the case of a marriage being proposed between family A and family B, the families related
to A or B who will be brought into closer connection by the marriage may object. On the other
hand, the family system has the advantage that the relatives who interfere may also be looked
upon for help. Not a few people are all for maintaining the family system. But the spirit of
individualism is entering into some families and here and there children are beginning to claim
their rights and to act against relatives' wishes. One hears of farmers sending boys, even
elder sons, to the towns, and for their equipment borrowing from the prefectural agricultural
bank instead of spending on the development of their business."

At a Christmas-day luncheon I met four students of rural problems, two of whom were peers,
one a governor of an important prefecture, and a fourth a high official in the agricultural
world. One man, speaking of the family system, said "the success of agriculture depends on
it." "In my opinion," someone remarked, "the foundation of the family system is common production
and common consumption, so when these things go there must be a gradual disappearance of the
family system." "No," came the rejoinder, "the only enemy of the family system is Western influence."
"Yes," the fourth speaker added, "an enemy whose blows have told."

Someone suggested that the Japanese rural emigrant always hoped to return home, that is if
he could return with dignity--does not the proverb speak of the desirability of returning home
in good clothes? One of the company said that he had seen in Kyushu rows of white-washed slated
houses which had been erected by returned emigrants. "But they were successful prostitutes.
Often, however, these girls invest their money unwisely and have to go abroad again."

Everybody at table agreed that there was in the villages a slow if steady slackening of "the
power of the landlord, of the authorities and of religion," and a development of a desire and
a demand for better conditions of life. One who proclaimed himself a conservative urged that
changes of form were too readily confounded with changes of spirit. The change in thought in
Japan, he said, was slow, and some occurrences might be easily misjudged. I said that that
very day I had heard from my house the drone of an aeroplane prevail over the sound of a temple
bell, happening to speak of The Golden Bough, I asked my neighbour, who had read it, if to
a Japanese who got its penetrating view some things could ever be the same again. He answered
frankly, "There are things in our life which are too near to criticise. Do you know that there
are parts of Japan where folklore is still being made?"

I was invited one evening to dinner to meet a dozen men conspicuous in the agricultural world.
Priests were apologised for because most of them were "very poor men and also poorly educated."
Very few had been even to a middle school. Many priests read Chinese scriptures aloud but they
did not understand what they were reading.

One man reported that an old farmer had said to him that paddy-field labour was harder than
dry-land labour, but young men did not go off to Tokyo because of the severity of the work;
they went away because of "the bondage of rural life."

How much has the economic stress affected old convictions? How general and how eager is the
Japanese resolution to Westernise farther? None of the rural sociologists had given any thought
apparently to a new factor in the rural problem: the way in which compulsory military service,
in taking farmers' sons to the cities as soldiers and bluejackets, is giving them an acquaintance
with neo-Malthusianism. In Tokyo and other large cities certain articles are prominently advertised
on the hoardings. It is of some importance to consider what will be the effect of this knowledge
in competition with the national appreciation of large families.[227] Is it likely that an
intensely "practical" people, which has bolted so much of European and American "civilisation,"
will be wholly uninfluenced by the Western practice of limitation of offspring? What is to-day
the actual strength of the social needs which have produced the large Japanese family?[228]
Whatever middle-aged Japanese may think, the matter is not in their hands, but in the hands
of the younger generation. Most Western economists would no doubt argue that if fewer babies
arrived in Japan there would not be so many farmers' boys and university graduates bent on
emigrating.

Without the voluntary limitation of families, however, the number of children born is likely
to be diminished by the increased cost of living and by the postponement of marriage. I know
Japanese men who were married before they were twenty; the younger generation of my friends
is marrying nearer thirty.[229]

There is reason to believe that the population has not increased of recent years at the old
rate.[230] A responsible authority expressed the opinion to me that the necessities of the
population are unlikely to overtake the means of production in the near future.[231]

The Japanese are intensely practical, but they have, as we have seen, another side. If that
other side is not "spiritual," in the sense in which the word is largely used in the West,
it is at least regardful of other considerations than the "practical." It is with thoughts
of that vital side of the national character that I recall a story told me by Dr. Nitobe of
the last days of the Forty-seven Ronin. It is well authenticated. When the Ronin had slain
their dead lord's persecutor and had given themselves up to the authorities, they were found
worthy of death. But the Shogun was in some anxiety as to what might justly be done. He sent
privily to a famous abbot saying that it was at all times the duty of the Shogun to condemn
to death men who had committed murder. Yet it was the privilege of a priest to ask for mercy,
and in the matter of the lives of the Ronin the Shogun would not be unwilling to listen to
a plea for mercy. The abbot answered that he sympathised deeply with the Ronin, but because
he so sympathised with them he was unwilling to take any steps which might hinder the carrying
out of the sentence. It was true, he said, that there were old men among the Ronin, but many,
of them were young men--one was only fifteen--and it had to be borne in mind that if they escaped
death at the hands of the law it was hardly likely that during the whole course of their after-lives
they could hope to escape committing sin of some sort or another. At the moment they had reached
a pinnacle of nobility which they could never pass and it was a thing to be desired for them
that they should die now, when they would live to all posterity as heroes. The happiest fate
for the Ronin was a righteous death, and as their admiring sympathiser the abbot expressed
his unwillingness to do anything which might have the effect of saving them from so glorious
an end.

FOOTNOTES:

[221] Someone said to me, "I have in mind one village where there is a poorly cared-for school
and a score of teahouses giving employment to nearly two hundred people."

[222] "Small boards with crude designs painted on them. They may be prayers, thank-offerings
or protective charms. A shrine where many thanks ema have been left is clearly that of a god
ready to hear and answer prayer. Worshippers flock to the place and the accumulation of painted
boards--whether prayers or thanks--increases."--FREDERICK STARR, Transactions of the Asiatic
Society of Japan, vol. xlviii.

[223] The percentage in conscripts in 1918 was 2.2 per cent, against 2.5 per cent, in 1917
and 2.7 per cent, in 1916. ("Not less than 10 per cent. of the population of our large towns
are infected with syphilis and a much larger proportion with gonorrhœa."--SIR JAMES CRICHTON-BROWNE.)
The figures for the general population of Japan must be higher.

[224] See Appendix LXIII.

[225] It sometimes happens that an adopted son is dismissed with "a sufficient monetary compensation"
when a real son is born.

[226] I met a fine ex-daimyo, who after the Restoration had served as a prefectural governor.
He was so generous in giving money to public objects in his prefecture that his family compelled
him to resign office.

[227] See Appendix XXX.

[228] It is only within the last quarter of a century that the authorities have taken a stand
against infanticide. There is no traditional dislike of an artificial diminution of progeny,
for many of the fathers and grandfathers of the present generation practised it. Methods of
procuring abortion were also common. A certain plant has a well-known reputation as an abortifacient.
A young peer and his wife are now conducting a campaign on behalf of smaller families, and
the discussion has advanced far enough for a magazine to invite Dr. Havelock Ellis to express
his views.

[229] According to the 1918 figures the ages at which men and women married were as follows
per 1,000: before 20, m. 37.6, w. 259.0; 20-25, m. 304.9, w. 434.8; 26-30, m. 347.9, w. 159.4;
31-35, m. 145.1, w. 67.3; 36-40, m. 70.0, w. 37.1; 41-45, m. 41.8, w. 21.4; 46-50, m. 22.8,
w. 10.5; 51-55, m. 14.7, w. 6.0; 56-60, m. 7.3, w. 2.5; 61 and upwards, m. 7.9, w. 2.

[230] See Appendix XXX.

[231] See Appendices XXV and LXXX; also page 363 for the reasons operating against emigration.
Mr. J. Russell Kennedy, of Kokusai-Reuter, declared (1921) that it was "a myth that Japan must
find an outlet for surplus population; Japan has plenty of room within her own border," that
is, including Korea and Formosa as well as Hokkaido in Japan. Mr. S. Yoshida, Secretary of
the Japanese Embassy in London, in an address also delivered in 1921, stressed the value of
the fishing-grounds and the mercantile marine as openings for an increased population. "The
resources of the sea," he said, "give Japan more room for her population than appears."

REFLECTIONS IN HOKKAIDO

CHAPTER XXXVII

COLONIAL JAPAN AND ITS UN-JAPANESE WAYS

Above all, this is not concerned with poetry.--WILFRED OWEN

When the traveller stands at the northern end of the mainland[232] of Japan he is five hundred
miles from Tokyo. In the north of Hokkaido he is a thousand miles away. Hokkaido, the most
northerly and the second biggest of the four islands into which Japan is divided, is curiously
American. The wide straight streets of the capital, Sapporo,[233] laid out at right angles,
the rough buggies with the farmer and his wife riding together, the wooden houses with stove
stacks, and, instead of paper-covered shoji, window panes: these things are seen nowhere else
in Japan and came straight from America. It was certainly from America that the farmers had
their cries of "Whoa." One of the best authorities on Hokkaido has declared that the administrative
and agricultural instructors whom America sent there from about the time of the Franco-Prussian
war "gave Japan a fairer, kindlier conception of America than all her study of American history."

In Old Japan there is always something which speaks of the centuries that are gone; in Sapporo
there is nothing that matters which is fifty years old. One of the most remarkable facts in
the agricultural history of Japan is that a country with a teeming population and an intensive
farming should have left entirely undeveloped to so late a period as the early seventies a
great island of 35,000 square miles which lies within sight of its shores. The wonder is that
an attempt on Yezo[234] was not made by the Russians, who, but for the vigorous action of a
British naval commander, would undoubtedly have taken possession of the island of Tsushima,
700 miles farther south and midway between Japan and Korea. Up to the time of the fall of the
Shogun the revenue of the lords of Yezo was got by taxing the harvest of the sea and the precarious
gains of hunters. The Imperial Rescript carried by the army which was sent against certain
adherents of the Shogun who had fled there said: "We intend to take steps to reclaim and people
the island."[235] It is doubtful if at that period the population was more than 60,000[236]
(including Ainu).[237]

When Count Kuroda was put at the head of the Colonial Government he went over to America and
secured as his adviser-in-chief the chief of the Agricultural Department at Washington. Stock,
seeds, fruit trees, implements and machinery, railway engines, buildings, practically everything
was American in the early days of Hokkaido. During a ten-year period, in which forty-five American
instructors were sent for, five Russians, four Britons, four Germans, three Dutchmen and a
Frenchman were also imported.[238]

Governor Kuroda had a million yen placed at his disposal for ten years in succession, and a
million yen was a big sum in those days. Before long there were flour mills, breweries, beet-sugar
factories, canning plants, lead and coal mining and silk manufacturing and an experiment in
soldier colonisation which owed something to Russian experiments in Cossack farming. An agricultural
school grew into a large agricultural college; and this agricultural college has lately become
the University of Hokkaido, with nearly a thousand students.[239] How much of a pioneer Sapporo
College was may be gathered from the fact that when I was in Hokkaido 67 out of the 140 men
who were members of the faculty had been themselves taught there. Dean Sato (Japan's first
exchange lecturer to American universities), Dr. Nitobe (Japanese Secretary of the League of
Nations) and Kanzō Uchimura were among the first students. There have always been American
professors at Sapporo--its first president came from Massachusetts--and the professorship of
English has always been held by an American.

The 50 acres of elm-studded land in which the University buildings stand are a surprise, for
the elm grows nowhere else in Japan but Hokkaido.[240] The extent of the University's landed
possessions is also unexpected. There are two training farms of 185 and 260 acres respectively,
beautifully kept botanic gardens, a tract of 15,000 acres on which there are already more than
a thousand tenants, and 300,000 acres of forests in Hokkaido, Saghalien and Korea. Four or
five times as many students as can be admitted offer themselves at Sapporo.

There is in Hokkaido an agricultural and rural life conceived for a country where stock may
be kept and a farmer does not need to practise the superintensive farming of Old Japan. At
the first University farm I looked over it was clear that not only American but Swedish, German
and Swiss farming practice had had its influence. No longer was the farmer content with mattocks,
hoes and flails. A silo dominated the scene, and maize, eaten from the cob in Old Japan, was
a crop for stock.[241] I also noticed crops of oats and rye.

I arrived in Hokkaido in the last week of August in a linen suit and was glad to put on a woollen
one. By September 29 it was snowing. Snow-shoes were shown among the products of the island
at the prefectural exhibition. Canadians have likened the climate of Hokkaido to that of Manitoba.
Hokkaido is on the line of the Great Lakes, but the cold current from the North makes comparisons
of this sort ineffective. It is only in southern Hokkaido that apples will grow. Thirty years
ago wolves and bear were shot two miles from Sapporo and bear may still be found within ten miles.

The sea fisheries of Hokkaido are valuable but agriculture and forestry are greater money makers.
Even without forestry agriculture is well ahead of factory industry, which is also eclipsed
by mining. Industry is aided by the presence of coal. Among manufactures, brewing stands out
even more conspicuously than wood-pulp making or canning. One of the three best-known beers
in Japan comes from Hokkaido.[242] In contrast with the situation in Old Japan, where the land
is half paddy and half upland, there is in Hokkaido only a ninth of the cultivated land under
rice.[243] When I was in Hokkaido there were 600,000 chō under cultivation, a hundred and fifty
times more than there were in 1873. The line marking the northern or rather the north-eastern
limit of rice shows roughly a third of the island on the northern and eastern coasts to be
at present beyond the skill of rice growers. There is always uncertainty with the rice crop
in Hokkaido. As the growing period is short, half the rice is not transplanted but sown direct
in the paddies. A bad crop is expected once in seven years. In such a season there is no yield
and even the straw is not good.

Immigrants get 5 chō, but if they are without capital they first go to work as tenants. There
are contractors in the towns who supply labourers to farmers and factories at busy times. When
newcomers have capital and are keen on rice growing and are families working without hired
labour, they are strongly recommended not to devote more than 2-1\2 chō to rice--from 3 to
5 chō are the absolute limit--against 1-1\2 or 2 chō to other crops. When the holder of a 5-chō
holding prospers he buys a second farm and more horses and implements, and hires labour for
the busy period. But 10 or 15 chō is considered as much as can be worked in this way. If the
area is more than 10 or 15 chō it is difficult to get labour in the busy season, for it is
the busy season for everybody. Labourers from a distance can be got only at an unprofitable
rate. It is first the lack of capital and then the lack of labour which prevents the farmer
extending his holding.[244] The limit of practical mixed farming is 30 chō. (Stock farming
is for milk rather than for meat, and more than one condensed-milk factory is in operation.)
Even in Hokkaido large farming, as it is understood in Great Britain and America, is not easy
to find.[245]

On my journey north from Sapporo the first thing which brought home to me the colonial character
of the agriculture was the tree stumps sticking up in the paddies. The second was the extent
to which the rivers were still uncontrolled. The longest river in Japan, 260 miles long, is
in Hokkaido. There was obviously a vast moorland area in need of draining. Peat--there are
300,000 chō of it--may be a standby when the waste of timber that is going on brings about
a shortage of fuel other than coal. From poor peat soil, which was growing oats, buckwheat
and millet, we passed to land capable of producing rice, and saw ploughing with horses. One
region had been opened for only twenty years, but already the farmers had cultivated the hillsides
in the assiduous fashion of Old Japan.

From Ashigawa we made some excursions in a prim basha to places which were always several miles
farther on than they were supposed to be and were usually reached by tracks covered with stones
from 6 to 9 ins. long and having ruts a foot deep.

We visited a large estate with 350 tenants who were mostly working 2-1/2 chō, though some had
twice as much. Nearly all of these tenants appeared to have one or two horses, although the
estate manager had advised them to use oxen or cows as more economical draught animals. When
I remembered the distance the farmers were from the town and the state of the roads, and noticed
the satisfaction which the men we passed displayed in being able to ride, it was easy to believe
that the possession of a horse might have its value as a means of social progress. During the
last ten years half the tenants had made enough to enable them to buy farms. The tenants on
this estate had two temples and one shrine.[246]

I visited a fifteen-years-old co-operative alcohol factory with a capital of 300,000 yen. Of
its materials 80 per cent. seemed to be potato starch waste and 20 per cent. maize. The product
was 6,000 or 7,000 koku of alcohol. The dividend was 8 per cent. On the waste a large number
of pigs was fed. The animals were kept in pens with boarded floors within a small area, and
I was not surprised to learn that three or four died every month. Starch making, which produces
the waste used by the alcohol factory, is managed on quite a small scale. An outfit may cost
no more than 30 or 50 yen. I went over a small peppermint-making plant. Most of the peppermint
raised in Japan--it reaches a value of 2 million yen--is grown in Hokkaido.

One day in the eastern part of the island I met in a small hotel, which was run by a man and
his wife who had been in America, several old farmers who had obviously made money. They declared
that formerly only 20 per cent. of the colonists succeeded, but now the proportion was more
than 65 per cent. I imagine that they meant by success that the colonists did really well,
for it was added that it was rare in that district for people to return to Old Japan. One of
the company said that not more than 5 per cent. returned. "Land is too expensive at home,"
he continued; "when a Japanese comes here and gets some, he works hard." A good man, they said,
should make, after four or five years, 70 to 100 yen clear profit in a year.

I rather suspect that the men I talked with had made some of their money by advancing funds
to their neighbours on mortgage. They all seemed to own several farms. When I asked how religion
prospered in Hokkaido they said with a smile, "There are many things to do here, so there is
no spare time for religion as in our native places." There is a larger proportion of Christians
in Hokkaido than on the mainland. One village of a thousand inhabitants contained two churches
and a Salvation Army barracks. It was reputed, also, to have eight or ten "waitresses" and
five saké shops. It is said that a good deal of shochu, which is stronger than saké, is drunk.

The roughest basha ride I made was to a place seven miles from railhead in the extreme north-east.
Such roads as we adventured by are little more than tracks with ditches on either side. The
journey back, because there were no horses to ride, we made in a narrow but extraordinarily
heavy farm wagon with wheels a foot wide and drawn by a stallion. Shortly after starting there
was a terrific thunderstorm which soaked us and hastened uncomfortably the pace of the animal
in the shafts. When the worst of the downpour was over, and we had faced the prospect of slithering
about the wagon for the rest of the journey, for the stallion had decided to hurry, a farmer's
wife asked us for a lift and clambered in with agility. My companion and I were then sitting
in a soggy state with our backs against the wagon front and our legs outstretched resignedly.
The cheery farmer's wife, who was wet too, plopped down between us and, as the bumps came,
gripped one of my legs with much good fellowship. She was a godsend by reason of her plumpness,
for we were now wedged so tight that we no longer rocked and pitched about the wagon at each
jolt. And no doubt we dried more quickly. Providence had indeed been good to us, for shortly
afterwards we passed, lying on its side in a spruit, the basha that had carried us on our outward
journey.

We were three hours in all in the wagon. Our passenger told us that her husband had several
farms and that they were very comfortably off and very glad that they had come to Hokkaido.
When the farmer's wife had to alight a mile from our destination we chose to walk. Bad roads
are a serious problem for the Hokkaido farmer. In one district, only fifteen miles from the
capital, they are so bad that rice is at half the price it makes in Sapporo. It is unfortunate
that the roads are at their worst in autumn and spring when the farmer wants to transport his
produce.

I visited the 700-acre settlement which Mr. Tomeoka has opened in connection with his Tokyo
institution for the reclamation of young wastrels. His formula is, "Feed them well, work them
hard and give them enough sleep." Among the volumes on his shelves there were three books about
Tolstoy and another three, one English, one American and one German, all bearing the same title,
The Social Question. Needless to say that Self-Help had its place.

I liked Mr. Tomeoka's idea of an open-air chapel on a tree-shaded height from which there was
a fine view. It reminded me of the view from an open space on rising ground near the famous
Danish rural high school of Askov, from which, on Sundays, parties of excursionists used to
look down enviously on Slesvig and irritate the Germans by singing Danish national songs. Mr.
Tomeoka believed in better houses and better food for farmers and in money raised by means
of the kō--"the rules and regulations of co-operative societies are too complicated for farmers
to understand."

I saw the huts of some settlers who had weathered their first Hokkaido winter. Buckwheat, scratched
in in open spaces among the trees, was the chief crop. The huts consisted of one room. Most
of the floor was raised above the ground and covered with rough straw matting. In the centre
of the platform was the usual fire-hole. The walls were matting and brushwood. I was assured
that "the snow and good fires, for which there is unlimited fuel, keep the huts warm."

The railway winds through high hills and makes sharp curves and steep ascents and descents.
There are tracts of rolling country under rough grass. Sometimes these areas have been cleared
by forest fires started by lightning. Wide spaces are a great change from the scenery of closely
farmed Japan. The thing that makes the hillsides different from our wilder English and Scottish
hillsides is that there are neither sheep nor cattle on them.

When the culpable destruction of timber in Hokkaido is added to what has been lost by forest
fires, due to lightning or to accident--one conflagration was more than 200 acres in extent--it
is easy to realise that the rivers are bringing far more water and detritus from the hills
than they ought to do and are preparing flood problems with which it will cost millions to
cope when the country gets more closely settled. It is deplorable that, apart from needless
burning on the hillsides, the farmers have not been dissuaded from completely clearing their
arable land of trees. On many holdings there is not even a clump left to shelter the farmhouse
and buildings. In not a few districts the colonists have created treeless plains. In place
after place the once beautiful countryside is now ugly and depressing.

FOOTNOTES:

[232] The word used by people in Hokkaido for the main island, Hondo or Honshu (Hon, main;
do or shu, land), is Naichi (interior).

[233] From Aomori on the mainland to Hakodate in Hokkaido is a 50-miles sea trip. Then comes
a long night journey to Sapporo, during which one passes between two active volcanoes. The
sea trip is 50 miles because a large part of the route taken by the steamer is through Aomori
Bay. The nearest part of Hokkaido to the mainland is a little less than the distance between
Dover and Calais.

[234] Foreigners sometimes confound Yezo (Hokkaido) with Yedo, the old name for Tokyo.

[235] A sixth of Hokkaido still belongs to the Imperial Household. In 1918 it decided to sell
forest and other land (parts of Japan not stated) to the value of 100 million yen. In 1917
the Imperial estates were estimated at 18-3/4 million chō of forest and 22-1/4 million chō
of "plains," that is tracts which are not timbered nor cultivated nor built on.

[236] In 1919 it was 2,137,700.

[237] Considerations of space compel the holding over of a chapter on the Ainu for another volume.

[238] Of the 96 foreign instructors in institutions "under the direct control" of the Tokyo
Department of Education in 1917-18, there were 27 British, 22 German, 19 American and 12 French.

[239] Hokkaido is one of five Imperial universities. There are in addition several well-known
private universities.

[240] Grouse are also to be found in Hokkaido, but no pheasants and no monkeys. The deep Tsugaru
Strait marks an ancient geological division between Hokkaido and the mainland.

[241] It is sometimes eaten, ground to a rough meal, with rice. The argument is that maize
is two thirds the price of rice and more easily digested.

[242] See Appendix XXXVII.

[243] The latest figures for Hokkaido show only a tenth.

[244] For farmers' incomes, see Appendix XIII.

[245] For sizes of farms, see Appendix LXIV.

[246] For a tenant's contract, see Appendix LXV.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

SHALL THE JAPANESE EAT BREAD AND MEAT?

Bon yori shoko (Proof, not argument)

One day in Tokyo I heard a Japanese who was looking at a photograph of a British woman War-worker
feeding pigs ask if the animals were sheep. Sheep are so rare in Japan that an old ram has
been exhibited at a country fair as a lion. In contrast with Western agriculture based on live
stock we have in Japan an agriculture based on rice.[247] But a section of the Japanese agricultural
world turns its eyes longingly to mixed farming, and so, when I returned to Sapporo from my
trip to the north of Hokkaido, I was taken to see a Government stock farm--with a smoking volcano
in the background. Hokkaido has four other official farms, one belonging to the Government
and one for raising horses for the army. I was shown, in addition to horses, Ayrshire, Holstein
and Brown Swiss cattle, Berkshire and Yorkshire pigs and Southdown and Shropshire sheep in
good buildings. I noticed two self-binders and a hay loader and I beheld for the first time
in Japan a dairymaid and collies--one was of a useless show type.

The extent to which the knack of looking after animals and a liking for them can be developed
is an interesting question. Experts in stock-keeping with generations of experience behind
them will agree that it is on the answer to this question that the success or non-success of
the Japanese in animal industry in no small measure depends.

I have a note of a discussion on the general treatment of domestic animals in Japan in the
course of which it was admitted that they were "certainly not treated as well as in most parts
of Europe, or as in China." One reason given was that "most sects believe in the reincarnation
of the wicked in the form of animals." The freedom which dogs enjoyed in English houses seemed
strange; my friends no doubt forgot that Western houses have no tatami to be preserved. It
was contended, however, that cavalry soldiers "often weep on parting from their horses" and
that "people with knowledge of animals are fond of them." I have myself seen farmers' wives
in tears at a horse fair when the foals they had reared were to be sold and the animals in
their timidity nuzzled them. Westerners who are familiar with the exquisite and humoursome
studies of animal, bird and insect life by Japanese artists of the past and present day,[248]
are in no doubt that such work was prompted by real knowledge and love of the "lower creation."
The Japanese have a keen appreciation of the "song" of an amazing variety of "musical" insects--there
are 20,000 kinds of insects. It is an appreciation not vouchsafed to the foreigner whose nerves
are racked by the insistent bizz of the semi or cicada--there are 38 kinds of cicada. Everyone
will recall Hearn's chapter on the trade in "singing insects."

One of my hosts in Aichi had two tiny cages which each contained one of these creatures. The
cages were hung from the eaves. In the evening when the stone lantern in the garden was lit,
and it was desired to give an illusion of greater coolness after a hot day a servant was sent
up to the roof to pour down a tubful of water in order to produce the dripping sound of rain;
and this at once set the caged insects chirping.

The sensitive foreigner is distressed by the way in which newly born puppies and kittens are
thrown out to die because their Buddhist owners are too scrupulous to kill them. The stranger's
feelings are also worked on by the unhappy demeanour and uncared-for look of dogs and cats.
On chancing to enter in a Japanese city an English home where there were three dogs I could
not but mark how they contrasted in bearing and appearance with the generality of the animals
I had seen. Yet these dogs were all mongrel foundlings which had been abandoned near my friend's
house or dropped into her garden. No doubt most Japanese dogs suffer from having too much rice--and
polished at that--and practically no bones. An excuse for the neglect of cats is that they
scratch woodwork and tatami and insist on carrying their food into the best room.

Horses are often overloaded and mercilessly driven on hilly roads.[249] On the other hand,
carters lead their horses. It might be added that the coolies who haul and push handcarts bearing
enormous loads never spare themselves. I was told more than once of people who had been too
tenderhearted to make an end of old horses. I also heard of hens which had been allowed to
live on until they died of old age. In some mountain communities it is the custom, when a chicken
must be killed for a visitor's meal, for an exchange of birds to be made with a neighbour in
order that the killing may not be too painful for the owner.[250]

Except in hotels and stores in Tokyo and the cities which cater for foreigners, one seldom
sees such an animal product as cheese. On the Government farm I found excellent cheese and
butter being made. Untravelled Japanese have the dislike of the smell of cheese that Western
people have of the stench of boiling daikon. Nor is cheese the only alien food with which the
ordinary Japanese has a difficulty. The smell of mutton is repugnant to him and he has yet
to acquire a taste for milk. The demand for milk is increasing, however. The guide books are
quite out of date. Nearly all the milk ordinarily sold for foreigners and invalids is supplied
sterilised in bottles. On the platforms of the larger railway stations bottles of milk are
vended from a copper container holding hot water. In places where I have been able to obtain
bread I have usually had no difficulty in getting milk. (The word for bread, pan, has been
in the language since the coming of the Portuguese, and all over Japan one finds sponge cake,
kasutera, a word from the Spanish.) Butter in country hotels is usually rancid, for the reason,
I imagine, that it is carelessly handled and kept too long and that few Japanese know the taste
of good butter. The development of a liking for bread and butter is obviously one of the conditions
of the establishment of a successful animal industry. Condensed milk is sold in large quantities,
but chiefly to supplement infants' supplies and to make sweetstuff. The 1919 production was
estimated at 57 million tins.

One argument for an animal industry is that with an increasing population the fish supply will
not go so far as it has done. It is said that fish are not to be found in as large quantities
as formerly. Another argument is that the national imports include many products of animal
industry which might be advantageously produced at home. Not only is more milk, condensed and
fresh, being consumed: with the adoption of foreign clothes in professional and business life
and in the army and navy, more and more wool is being worn[251] and more and more leather is
needed for the boots which are being substituted for geta and also for service requirements.
It is contended that for the emancipation of Japanese agriculture from the petite culture stage
it is essential that a larger number of draught oxen and horses shall be used. It is equally
important, it is suggested, that more manure shall be made on the farms, so that a limit shall
be placed on the outlay on imported fertilisers. Finally there are those who urge that the
Japanese should be better fed and that better feeding can only be brought about by an increased
consumption of animal products.[252]

The possibilities of outdoor stock keeping in Hokkaido are limited by the fact that snow lies
from November to the middle of February and in the north of the island to the end of March.
A high agricultural authority did not think that the number of cattle in all Japan could be
raised to more than two million within twenty years.[253]

In the management of sheep--there were about 5,000 in the whole country when I was in Hokkaido--there
has been failure after failure, but it is held that the prospects for sheep in Hokkaido are
promising. (The question is discussed in the next Chapter.) At present, owing to the lack of
a market for mutton, pigs, which used to be kept in the days before Buddhism exerted its influence,
seem more attractive to experimenting farmers than sheep. No one has proposed that sheep should
be kept in ones and twos for milking as in Holland.[254] When milk is needed it is said that
goats, of which there are more than 90,000 in Japan, are desirable stock, but I doubt whether
more than 500 of these goats are milked.[255] They are kept to produce meat. Some people hope
that those who eat goat's flesh will come to realise the superiority of mutton.

The case for pigs is that sweet potatoes and squash can be fed to them, that they produce frequent
litters, that pork is more and more appreciated, and that there are 300,000 of them in the
country already. Some confident experts who have possibly been influenced by the large consumption
of pork in China argue that pork may become equally popular in Japan. There are two bacon factories
not far from Tokyo.

As in other countries, the argument for doing away with foreign imports is pushed in Japan
to ridiculous lengths. Japan, which aims above all at being an exporting country, cannot attain
her desire without receiving imports to pay for her exports.[256] The physiological argument
for an animal industry is unconvincing. The Japanese have a long dietetic history as vegetarians
who eat a little fish and a few eggs. There exists in Japan an exceptionally ingenious variety
of nitrogenous foods derived from the vegetable kingdom, and the Japanese have become accustomed
to digest vegetable protein.[257] It might be suggested, with some show of reason, that in
this matter of the adoption of a meat dietary the Japanese are once more under the influence
of foreign ideas which are a little out of date.[258] In Europe and America there is evidence
of a decreasing meat consumption among educated people, and medical papers are full of counsels
to diminish the amount of meat consumed. There is also in the West an increasing sensitiveness
to the horrors inflicted on animals in transportation by rail and steamer, and if an animal
industry were established in Japan there would certainly be a great deal of transportation
by rail and steamer from the breeding to the rearing districts, and from these districts to
the slaughtering centres. If the present advocacy of an animal industry for Japan should triumph
over the reluctance to take animal life inculcated by Buddhism it is hardly likely to be regarded
in the West as a forward step in the ethical evolution of the Japanese.[259]

I had the good fortune to meet in Sapporo a man who has made a special study of the food of
the Japanese people, Professor Morimoto of the University. He said that he had no doubt that
when the Japanese began to eat bread instead of rice they would develop a taste for meat as
well as butter. With great kindness he placed at my disposal statistics which he afterwards
expanded in a thesis for Johns Hopkins University. He had investigated the dietary of the families
of 200 tenants of the University farms. Reduced to terms of men per day the result was:

                            Sen.                 Sen.
Rice (1.95 go)            4.2     Vegetables   2.2
(Naked) barley (3.45 go)  3.3     Pickles[260]  .6
Fish                        1.0     Saké          .08
Miso                       .7     Sugar         .02
Shoyu (soy)                .03               ------
                                                12.13

Or at Tokyo prices, 14.3 sen. On averaging, in terms of per man per day, the food and drink
consumption of all Japan, Professor Morimoto found the result to be:

                        Sen.                        Sen.
Grain                   6.60          Fruits         .40
Legumes                  .39          Sugar          .53
Vegetables              2.00          Salt           .20
Fish and seaweeds        .54          Tea            .10
Beef and veal            .10 }        Alcoholic
Other animal food        .03 }          liquor      1.50
Chicken                  .03 } .33    Tobacco        .45
Eggs                     .13 }
Milk                     .04 }
                                                   -----
                                                   13.04[261]

The Professor compares with these totals the 34.4 sen and 39.3 sen per day which seem to represent
the cost of the food of the rank and file in the navy and army, and three standards of diet
issued by the official Bureau of Hygiene providing for expenditures of 32.1 sen, 33 sen and
44.4 sen respectively. (All the prices I have cited are dated 1915.) Beef and pork as well
as fish are used in the army and navy. The navy also uses bread.

Professor Morimoto estimates that a Japanese may be fairly expected to consume only 80 per
cent. of what a foreigner needs, for the average weight of Japanese is only 13 kwan 830 momme
to the European's 17 kwan 20 momme.

My personal impression, which I give merely for what it is worth, for I have made no investigation
of the subject, is that, though Japanese may thrive on meagre fare, they eat large quantities
of food when their resources permit of indulgence. The common ailment seems to be "stomach
ache." This may be due to eating at irregular hours, to an unbalanced dietary, to the eating
of undercooked viands or to occasional over-eating, or to all of these causes.[262] Undoubtedly
there is much room for dietetic reform.

Professor Morimoto had come to the conclusion "that there is under-feeding, largely due to
a bad choice of foods, that the relation of the nutritive value of foods to their cost is insufficiently
studied and that cooking can be improved." It is of course an old criticism of the Japanese
table that food is either imperfectly cooked or prepared too much with a view to appearance.
The Professor's finding was that the Japanese need the addition of meat and bread to their
dietary. As far as meat is concerned he did not convince me. Let me quote him on the soy bean:
"It is a remarkably good substitute for meat. It is very low in price but its nutritive value
is very high. The essential element of miso, tofu and shoyu is soy bean." Bread is another
matter. The Japanese Navy, presumably because it may find itself far from Japan, has accustomed
its sailors to eat bread, and a case can certainly be made out for the general population not
relying on rice as a grain food. But, as the large quantities of barley eaten show, there is
no such reliance now. Morimoto urged that while there might be no difference in the nutritive
value of wheat and rice, rice as usually eaten induced "abnormal distension of the stomach
and poor nutrition." Again, wheat was a world crop,[263] whereas rice, owing to the Japanese
objection to foreign rice, was a local crop. If the Japanese were users of wheat as well as
of rice they would not have to pay so much for food, when, on the failure of the rice crop
in considerable parts of Japan, the price of rice was high. "The consumption is about 10 million
bushels more than the production." Further, rice was more costly in cultivation than wheat,
and its production could not be increased so as to keep pace with the increase in population.
The yield, which was 46 million koku in 1904, was only 50 millions in 1912; and 65 millions
in 1927 seemed an excessive estimate. In 1912 the importation of rice was 2 million koku. But
on all these points the reader should take note of the data on page 84 and in Appendices XXIV
and XXV.

The Professor's concluding point against rice was that it was expensive to prepare. The washing
of the rice in a succession of waters and the cleaning of the sticky pot in which it was cooked
and of the equally sticky tub in which it was served took a great deal of time. Then in order
to cook rice properly--and the Japanese have become connoisseurs--the exact proportion of water
must be gauged. The supplies of rice to be cooked were so considerable that the name of the
servant lass was "girl to boil the rice." But when bread was used instead of rice, said the
Professor jubilantly, a baking twice a week would do. Why, an hour a day might be saved, which
in twenty years would be 73,000 hours, or a whole year, and, reckoning women's labour as worth
5 sen an hour, that would be a saving of 565 yen!

FOOTNOTES:

[247] For statistics of cultivated area and live stock, see Appendix LXVI.

[248] One thinks of Takeuchi Seiho who lives in Kyoto, of Toba Sojo (11th century) for monkeys,
frogs and bullocks, and in the Tokugawa period of Okio for dogs and carp, of Jakchū for fowls
and birds, of Hasegawa Tohaku and Sosen for monkeys, of Kawanabe Kyosai for crows, and of Kesai
and Hokusai for birds, fish and insects.

[249] Nevertheless it is well not to be hasty in judgment. On the day on which this footnote
was written, April 7, 1921, I find the following items in the Daily Mail. On page 4 the Attorney-General
regrets that the law tolerates the "cruel practice" by which 30 pigeons were killed or injured
at a certain pigeon-shooting competition and expresses inability to bring in legislation. On
page 5, col. 2, an M.P. is reported as mentioning a case in which a puppy had been kicked to
death and as asking the Home Secretary whether the law imposing imprisonment for a short term
could not be strengthened. On the same page, col. 5, a railway porter is reported as having
been fined for flinging three small calves into a farm cart by the tails.

[250] For poultry statistics, see Appendix LXVII.

[251] Before the extensive use of yofuku (foreign clothes) the dress of Japanese men and women
was entirely of cotton and silk or of cotton only. Much of the material from which yofuku are
made is no doubt cotton.

[252] See Appendix LXVIII

[253] The number of cattle, which was 1,342,587 in 1916, was only 1,307,120 in 1918. See also
Appendix LXVI.

[254] For photographs and particulars of the milk sheep, see my Free Farmer in a Free State.

[255] The value of the well-bred and well-cared-for goat as a milk and manure producer is underestimated.
The problem of keeping goats in such a way that they shall not be destructive and shall yield
the maximum of manure is discussed in my Case for the Goat.

[256] This question as it affects an agricultural country is discussed in A Free Farmer in
a Free State.

[257] There is a consensus of scientific opinion that "non-meat eating" races such as the Japanese
have longer alimentary tracts than flesh-eating Europeans. It is difficult to be precise on
the subject, an eminent Western surgeon tells me, for bowels are as contractile as worms, which
at one minute measure 100 units in length and the next minute have shortened to 30. So much
depends on the state at death.

[258] On the other hand, the Japanese have taken up many new things at the point which we in
the West have only recently reached. They begin to produce milk and supply it, not in the milkman's
pail, but in sterilised bottles. They abandon candles and lamps and, practically skipping gas,
adopt electric light or power. The capital invested in electric enterprises in 1919 was about
700 million yen or seven times that invested in gas.

[259] There is one blameless form of stock keeping which is developing in Hokkaido. Bees, which
have still to make their way in Old Japan, are now 6,000 hives strong in the northern island,
though a start was made only six or seven years ago.

[260] It is illustrative of the extent to which pickle is consumed in Japan that a family in
Sapporo was found to have eaten no fewer than 283 daikon in a year.

[261] The reader must put away the impression which this table gives of a varied dietary. Few
Japanese have such a range of food. The average man habitually lives on rice, bean products
(tofu, bean jelly and miso, soft bean cheese), pickles, vegetables, tea, a little fish and
sometimes eggs. People of narrow means see little of eggs and not much fish, unless it be katsubushi.

[262] The watering of vegetables with liquid manure, the usual practice of the Japanese farmer,
and the pollution of the paddies make salads and insufficiently cooked green stuff dangerous
and many water supplies of questionable purity. Great efforts have been made to provide safe
tap water from the hills. Intestinal parasites are common. The build of the Japanese makes
for strength, but in the urban areas there is much absence from work on the plea of ill-health.
Both in Japan and in England I have been struck by the fact that when I made an excursion with
an urban Japanese he often tired before I did, and on none of these trips was I in anything
like first-class condition.

[263] Many Japanese look forward to a great production of wheat on the north-eastern Asiatic
mainland under Japanese auspices. In considering imports of wheat it should be remembered that
some of it is used in soy and macaroni.

CHAPTER XXXIX

MUST THE JAPANESE MAKE THEIR OWN "YOFUKU"?[264]

"God damn all foreigners!"--Interrupter at one of Mr. Gladstone's early meetings at Oxford

When I was in Hokkaido sheep were being experimented with at different places on the mainland,
investigators and sheep buyers had gone off to Australia, New Zealand and South America, and
a Tokyo Sheep Bureau of two dozen officials had been established. Great hopes were built on
a few hundred sheep in Hokkaido.[265] But I noticed that Government farm sheep were under cover
on a warm September day. Also I heard of trouble with two well-known sheep ailments. There
was talk nevertheless of the day when there would be a million sheep in Hokkaido, perhaps three
millions. On the mainland I also met high officials and enthusiastic prefectural governors
who dreamed dreams of sheep farming in Old Japan, where land is costly, farms small, agriculture
intensive, grazing ground to seek, and farmland necessarily damp. This sheep keeping is conceived
as one animal or perhaps two on a holding as rather unhappy by-products. The notion is that
the wool and manure of a sheep would meet the expense of its keep and that the mutton would
be profit. Hopes of an extension of sheep breeding resting on such a basis seem to be extravagant.
One high authority told me that it would take twenty or thirty years to develop sheep keeping.

The sheep at present in Japan are not living in natural conditions. They feed on cultivated
crops. Sheep could hardly live a week on natural Japanese pasture. The wild herbage is full
of the sharp bamboo grass. In the summer much of the eatable herbage dries up. Not only must
sheep endure the summer heat and insects; they must survive the trying rainy season. But they
must do more than merely endure and survive. In order to produce good wool it is necessary
that they shall be in good condition. The hair of one's head immediately shows the effect of
imperfect nutrition or unhealthy conditions, and it is the same with the wool on the back of
the sheep.

It is said that the quality of the wool on the sheep kept in Japan depreciates. However this
may be, it is plain that sheep breeding must be conducted on a large scale in order to produce
wool in commercial quantities and of even quality. Some notion of the land normally required
for sheep may be estimated from the fact that Australian pasture carries no more than four
sheep per acre.[266]

An improvement of Japanese herbage sufficient to fit it for sheep would be a heavy task even
in small areas. It is not only the herbage but the rocks below it which are all wrong for sheep,
if we are to judge by the geological formations on which sheep flourish in the West. If the
sheep were put on cultivated land[267] or placed on straw as I saw them in Hokkaido there would
be serious risks of foot rot. No doubt there would also be insect pests to control. If Japan
set up sheep keeping she would no doubt have to devise her own special breed of sheep, for
the well-known Western breeds are artificial products. Probably the experiments which are being
made in China with sheep at an earlier stage of development are proceeding on the right lines.
I have already spoken of the fact that a Japanese taste for mutton has yet to be cultivated.

This is a formidable list of difficulties confronting the new Governmental Sheep Bureau. No
doubt much may be done by a large expenditure of money and much patience. The Japanese have
wrought marvels before by spending money and having a large stock of patience. Account must
also be taken of the spirit reflected in the speech made to me by a Japanese friend when I
read the foregoing paragraph to him:

"But we are keen to try. If there were no necessity to prepare for war, when we must have wool
for soldiers, sailors and officials, we might rely on Australia and elsewhere and hope to improve
the inferior and dirty Chinese wool. But thinking of the disease prevailing in Northern Manchuria
and of service needs, we want to try sheep keeping with some subsidy in Hokkaido and on the
mainland in Northern Aomori where there is much dry wild land and the farmers are often miserable--there
are villages where the people do not wash. We might provide some of the wool needed by Japan.
We have practically met our needs in sugar, though of course our needs are small compared with
England and America."

Let us turn from the sheep problem to the factory problem. What are the difficulties of the
woollen industry? In the first place, as we have seen, there is no home supply of wool worth
mentioning. Further, there is the intricacy of woollen manufacture. Cotton machinery has been
brought to such a pitch of perfection for every operation and there are in existence so many
technical manuals for every department of cotton manufacture that a certain standardisation
of output is not difficult. The problem of woollen manufacture is much more complicated. The
output cannot be similarly standardised, and there are many directions in which originality,
self-reliance and experience come into play decisively.

In the woollen districts of Great Britain the operatives are people who have been in the trade
all their lives, whose parents and grandparents have been in the trade before them. There is
not only an hereditary aptitude but an hereditary interest. There is not only an individual
interest but an interest of the whole community. The welfare of a town or city is wrapped up
in the woollen industry. This is not so in Japan. The mill workers in the Tokyo prefecture,
for example, come from remote parts of Japan, and the girls--and three-quarters of the employees
of the woollen industry are girls--are merely on a three-years contract. The girls arrive absolutely
inexperienced. Even in England it is considered that it takes two or three years to make a
worker skilful. Within the three-years period for which the Japanese mill girls or their parents
contract, as many as 30 per cent. leave the mills and, appalling fact, from 20 to 25 per cent.
die.[268] Not more than 10 per cent. renew their three-years contract. Therefore there is,
at present at any rate, little real skilled labour in the factories. Another difficulty is
the absence of skilful wool sorters. Even before the War a good wool sorter commanded in England
from £3 to £4 a week. One of the things which hampers the Japanese woollen industry is the
prevalence of illness at the factories. They must have, in consequence, about 25 per cent.
more labour than is needed.

Generally one would say that the industry at its present stage is not only weak on the labour
side,[269] but, where it is efficient, is skilful rather in imitation than in original design.
Everything produced is an imitation of foreign designs. That is not an unnatural state of things,
however, at the commencement of a new industry.

With regard to the old complaint of Japanese goods failing to come up to sample, the shortcoming
is often due not to intentional dishonesty but simply to inability to produce a uniform product.
In one factory an order had to be filled by bringing together work from 300 different places.
The first delivery of the cloth produced for the Russian army was like the sample, but the
later deliveries, though of excellent material, were not, for the simple reason that the precise
raw materials for the required blending did not exist in Japan.

One of the marvels of the industry is the high prices obtained in Japan. The best winter serge
was selling in England before the War at 8s. a yard. The Japanese price for winter serge was
from 5 to 6 yen. Before the War it was possible to import cloth at 50 per cent. less than the
local rates. Nevertheless there seemed to be a market for everything. Japanese cloth lacks
finish but it is made out of good materials and will wear. The factories are compelled to use
a better quality of material in order to get anywhere near the appearance of imported goods.
A foreign manufacturer, "owing to his skill in manufacture," as it was once explained to me,
may produce a cloth of a certain quality containing only 10 per cent. new wool: the Japanese
manufacturer, in order to produce a comparable article must use 30 per cent. new wool. Obviously
this means that the Japanese factory must charge higher prices.

In considering the position of the industry it is natural to ask how it would be affected if
the Japanese factories were able to draw more largely upon Manchuria for wool. The answer is
that the sheep in Manchuria at present yield what is called "China" wool, which is suitable
only for blankets and coarse cloth.

To some who feel a sympathy for Japan in her present stage of industrial development and are
inclined to take long views it may seem a pity that she should contemplate making such a radical
change in her national habits as is represented by the demand for woollen materials and for
meat. Japanese dress, easy, hygienic and artistic though it is, and admirably suited for wearing
in Japanese dwellings, is ill adapted for modern business life, not to speak of factory conditions.
But it has not yet been demonstrated that Japan is under the necessity of substituting, to
so large an extent as she evidently contemplates doing, woollen for cotton and silk clothing,
and Western clothing for her own characteristic raiment.[270] The cotton padded garment and
bed cover are both warm and clean. It is odd that this new demand on the part of Japan for
woollen material should coincide with movements in Europe and America to utilise more cotton,
for underclothing at any rate. There is undoubtedly a hygienic case of a certain force against
wool. The same is true of meat. It may well be that the dietary of many Japanese has not been
sufficiently nutritious, but much of the meat-eating which is now being indulged in seems to
be due more to an aping of foreign ways than to physical requirements. The more meat Japan
eats and the more she dresses herself in wool the more she places herself under the control
of the foreigner.[271] Whatever degree of success may attend sheep breeding within the limits
imposed upon it by physical conditions in Japan, the raw material of the woollen industry must
be mostly a foreign product. As far as meat is concerned, it is difficult to believe that while
the agriculture of Japan is based upon rice production there is room for the production of
meat on a large scale. If the meat and wool are to be produced in Manchuria and Mongolia we
shall see what we shall see. The significance of the experiment of the Manchuria Railway Company
since 1913 in crossing merino and Mongolian sheep and the work which is being done on the sheep
runs of Baron Okura in Mongolia cannot be overlooked. Ten years hence it will be interesting
to examine industrially and socially the position of the woollen industry[272] and the animal
industry in Japan and on the mainland, and the net gain that the country has made.

FOOTNOTES:

[264] Yofuku means foreign clothes.

[265] In 1920 there were 8,219 sheep in Japan, including 945 in Hokkaido.

[266] A sheep produces about 7 lbs. of wool in the year. But this is the unscoured weight.
In Japan, an expert assured me, it would not reach more than 56 to 60 per cent. when scoured.

[267] "To-day sheep cannot, be kept on arable to leave any reward to the farmer."--Country
Life, August 20, 1921.

[268] See Appendix LXIX.

[269] See Appendix LXX.

[270] An immense amount of silk is used in Japanese men's clothing. The kimono, except the
cheaper summer kind and the bath kimono (yukata), which are cotton, is silk. So are the hakama
(divided skirt) and the haori (overcoat). Japanese women's clothes are largely silk. The dress
of working people is cotton, but even they have some silk clothing.

[271] "By degrees they proceeded to all the stimulations of banqueting which was indeed part
of their bondage."--Tacitus on the Britons under Roman influence.

[272] The industry has already made on the London market an impression of competence in some
directions. For production and exports, see Appendix LXX.

CHAPTER XL

THE PROBLEMS OF JAPAN

Concerning these things, they are not to be delivered but from much intercourse and discussion.--PLATO

Emigrants do not willingly seek a climate worse than their own. This is one of the reasons
why the development of Hokkaido has not been swifter. The island is not much farther from the
mainland than Shikoku, but it is near, not the richest and warmest part of the mainland, but
the poorest and the coldest. If we imagine another Scotland lying off Cape Wrath, at the distance
of Ireland from Scotland, and with a climate corresponding to the northerly situation of such
a supposititious island, we may realise how remoteness and climatic limitations have hindered
the progress of Hokkaido.

"Our mode of living is not suited to the colder climate," an agricultural professor said to
me. "Poor emigrants do not have money enough to build houses with stoves and properly fitting
windows."

To what extent the modified farming methods rendered necessary by the Hokkaido climate have
had a deterring effect on would-be settlers I do not know. It has never been demonstrated that
the Japanese farmer prefers arduous amphibious labour to the dry-land farming in which most
of the world's land workers are engaged; but the cultivation of paddy or a large proportion
of paddy is his traditional way of farming. Rice culture also means to him the production of
the crop which, when weather conditions favour, is more profitable than any other. In Hokkaido,
as we have seen, the remunerative kind of agriculture is mixed farming, and, in a large part
of the country, rice cannot be grown at all. Against objections to Hokkaido on the ground of
the strangeness of its farming may probably be set, however, the cheapness of land there.

An undoubted hindrance to the colonisation of Hokkaido has been land scandals and land grabbing.
Many of what the late Lord Salisbury called the "best bits" are in the hands of big proprietors
or proprietaries. Some large landowners no doubt show public spirit. But their class has contrived
to keep farmers from getting access to a great deal of land which, because of its quality and
nearness to practicable roads and the railway, might have been worked to the best advantage.
In various parts of Japan I heard complaints. "The land system in Hokkaido," one man in Aichi
said to me, "is so queer that land cannot be got by the families needing it, I mean good land."
Again in Shikoku I was assured that "the most desirable parts of the Hokkaido are in the hands
of capitalists who welcome tenants only." In more than one part of northern Japan I was told
of emigrants to Hokkaido who had "returned dissatisfied." A charge made against the large holder
of Hokkaido land is that he is an absentee and a city man who lacks the knowledge and the inclination
to devote the necessary capital to the development of his estate. Of late the rise in the value
of timber has induced not a few proprietors to interest themselves much more in stripping their
land of trees than in developing its agricultural possibilities.

The development of Hokkaido may also have been slowed down to some extent by a lower level
of education among the people than is customary on most of the mainland, by a rougher and less
skilful farming than is common in Old Japan and by the existence of a residuum which would
rather "deal" or "let George do it" or cheat the Ainu than follow the laborious colonial life.
But no cause has been more potent than a lack of money in the public treasury. I was told that
for five years in succession Tokyo had cut down the Hokkaido budget. Necessary public work
and schemes for development have been repeatedly stopped. At a time when the interests of Hokkaido
demand more farmers and there is a general complaint of lack of labour, at a time when there
are persistent pleas for oversea expansion, there are in Japan twice or thrice as many people
applying for land in the island as are granted entry. The blunt truth is that the State has
felt itself compelled to spend so much on military and naval expansion that the claims of Hokkaido
for the wherewithal for better roads, more railway line and better credit have often been put
aside.[273]

One thing is certain, that slow progress in the development of Hokkaido gives an opening to
the critics of Japan who doubt whether her need for expansion beyond her own territory is as
pressing as is represented by some writers. However this may be, Hokkaido is stated to take
only a tenth of the overplus of the population of Old Japan. The number of emigrants in 1913
was no larger than the number in 1906. A usual view in Hokkaido is that the island can hold
twice as many people as it now contains. "When 3,625,000 acres are brought into cultivation,"
says an official publication, "Hokkaido will be able easily to maintain 5,000,000 inhabitants
on her own products."

Very much of what has been achieved in Hokkaido has been done under the stimulating influence
of the Agricultural College, now the University. The northern climate seems to be conducive
to mental vigour in both professors and students. If in moving about Hokkaido one is conscious
of a somewhat materialistic view of progress it may be remembered that an absorption in "getting
on" is characteristic of colonists and their advisers everywhere. It is not high ideals of
life but bitter experience of inability to make a living on the mainland which has brought
immigrants to Hokkaido. As time goes on, the rural and industrial development may have a less
sordid look.[274] At present the visitor who lacks time to penetrate into the fastnesses of
Hokkaido and enjoy its natural beauties brings away the unhappy impression which is presented
by a view of man's first assault on the wild.

But he must still be glad to have seen this distant part of Japan. He finds there something
stimulating and free which seems to be absent from the older mainland. It is possible that
when Hokkaido shall have worked out her destiny she may not be without her influence on the
development of Old Japan. Those of the settlers who are reasonably well equipped in character,
wits and health are not only making the living which they failed to obtain at home; they are
testing some national canons of agriculture. Face to face with strangers and with new conditions,
these immigrants are also examining some ideals of social life and conduct which, old though
they are, may not be perfectly adapted to the new age into which Japan has forced herself.
One evening in Hokkaido I saw a lone cottage in the hills. At its door was the tall pole on
which at the Bon season the lantern is hung to guide the hovering soul of that member of the
family who has died during the year. The settler's lantern, steadily burning high above his
hut, was an emblem of faith that man does not live by gain alone which the hardest toil cannot
quench. In whatever guise it may express itself, it is the best hope for Hokkaido and Japan.

During my stay in the island I had an opportunity of meeting some of the most influential men
from the Governor downwards; also several interesting visitors from the mainland. We often
found ourselves getting away from Hokkaido's problems to the general problems of rural life.

Of the good influences at work in the village, the first I was once more assured, was "popular
education and school ethics, a real influence and blessing." The second was "the disciplinary
training of the army for regularity of conduct." ("The influence of officers on their young
soldiers is good, and they give them or provide them with lectures on agricultural subjects
and allow them time to go in companies to experimental farms.")

Someone spoke of "the influence of the religion of the past." "The religion of the past!" exclaimed
an elderly man; "in half a dozen prefectures it may be that religion is a rural force, but
elsewhere in the Empire there is a lack of any moral code that takes deep root in the head.
After all Christians are more trustworthy than people drinking and playing with geisha."

On the other hand a prominent Christian said: "There is a weakness in our Christians, generally
speaking. There is an absence of a sound faith. The native churches have no strong influence
on rural life. There is often a certain priggishness and pride in things foreign in saying,
'I am a Christian.'"

Another man spoke in this wise: "I have been impressed by some of the following of Uchimura.
They seem ardent and real. But I have also been attracted by strength of character in members
of various sects of Christians. The theology and phraseology of these men may be curious, may
be in many respects behind the times, but their religion had a beautiful aspect.[275] Many
of our people have got something of Christian ethics, but are no church-goers. Some Japanese
try to combine Christian principles with old Japanese virtues; others with some soul supporting
Buddhistic ideas. We must have Christianity if only to supply a great lack in our conception
of personality. People who have accepted Christianity show so much more personality and so
much more interest in social reform."

When we returned to agricultural conditions, one who spoke with authority said: "In Old Japan
the agricultural system has become dwarfed. The individual cannot raise the standard of living
nor can crops be substantially increased. The whole economy is too small.[276] The people are
too close on the ground. They must spread out to north-eastern Japan, to Hokkaido, Korea and
Manchuria. The population of Korea could be greatly increased. There is an immense opening
in Manchuria, which is four or five times the area of the Japanese Empire and sparsely populated.
There is also Mongolia."[277]

"But in Korea," one who had been there said, "there are the Koreans, an able if backward people,
to be considered--they will increase with the spread of our sanitary methods among a population
which was reduced by a primitive hygiene and by maladministration. And as to our people going
to the mainland of Asia, we do not really like to go where rice is not the agricultural staple,
and we prefer a warm country. In Formosa, where it is warm, we are faced by the competition
of the Chinese at a lower standard of life.[278] The perfect places for Japanese are California,
New Zealand and Australia, but the Americans and Australasians won't have us. I do not complain;
we do not allow Chinese labour in Japan. But we think that we might have had Australasia or
New Zealand if we had not been secluded from the world by the Tokugawa régime, and so allowed
you British to get there first. It is not strange that some of our dreamers should grudge you
your place there, should cherish ideas of expansion by walking in your footsteps. But it is
wisdom to realise that we cannot do to-day what might have been done centuries ago or make
history repeat itself for our benefit. It is wiser to seek to reduce the amount of misapprehension,
prejudice and--shall I say?--national feeling in Japan and America and Australasia, and try
to procure ultimate accommodation for us all in that way. But not too much reduce, perhaps,
for, in the present posture of the world, nationalist feeling and--we do not want premature
inter-marriage--racial feeling are still valuable to mankind."

A speaker who followed said: "Remember to our credit how our area under cultivation in Old
Japan continually increases.[279] Bear in mind, too, what good use we have made of the land
we have been able to get under cultivation--so many thousand more chō of crops than there are
chō of land, due, of course, to the two or three crops a year system in many areas."[280]

"As for the situation the emigrants[281] leave behind them in Old Japan," resumed the first
speaker, "the experiment should be tried of putting ten or so of tiny holdings[282] under one
control, and an attempt should be made to see what improved implements and further co-operation[283]
can effect. I suppose the thing most needed on the mainland is working capital at a moderate
rate. Think of 900 million yen of farmers' debt, much of it at 12 per cent. and some of it
at 20 per cent.! I do not reckon the millions of prefectural, county and village debt. Of what
value is it to raise the rice crop to 3 or 4 koku per tan (60 or 80 bushels per acre)[284]
if the moneylender profits most? The farmers of Old Japan are undoubtedly losing land to the
moneyed people.[285] Every year the number of farmers owning their own land decreases[286]
and the number of tenants increases and more country people go to the towns.[287] And, as an
official statement says, 'the physical condition of the army conscripts from the rural districts
is always superior to that of the conscripts of the urban districts.'"

Some Western criticism of Japanese agriculture cannot be overlooked.[288] Criticism is naturally
invited by (1) Japanese devotion to what is in Western eyes an exotic crop--but owing to exceptional
water supplies, favourable climatic conditions and acquired skill in cultivation, the best
crop for all but the extreme north-east of Japan;[289] (2) the small portions in which much
of that crop is grown--of necessity; (3) the primitive implements--not ill-adapted, however,
to a primitive cultural system; (4) the non-utilisation of animal or mechanical power in a
large part of the country--due as much to physical conditions as to lack of cheap capital;
(5) what is spoken of as "the never-ending toil"--against which must be set the figures I have
quoted showing the number of farmers who do not work on an average more than 4 or 5 days a
week; and (6) the moderate total production compared with the number of producers--which must
be considered in reference to the object of Japanese agriculture and in relation to a lower
standard of living. Japanese agriculture, as we have seen, has shortcomings, many of which
are being steadily met; but with all its shortcomings it does succeed in providing, for a vast
population per square ri, subsistence in conditions which are in the main endurable and might
be easily made better.

Paddy adjustment has clearly shown that paddies above the average size are more economically
worked than small ones, but these adjusted paddies are on the plains and a large proportion
of Japanese paddies have had to be made on uneven or hilly ground where physical conditions
make it impossible for these rice fields to be anything else than small and irregular. Japanese
agriculture is what it is and must largely remain what it is because Japan is geologically
and climatically what it is, and because the social development of a large part of Japan is
what it is. Comparisons with rice culture in Texas, California and Italy are usually made in
forgetfulness of the fact that the rice fields there are generally on level fertile areas,
in America sometimes on virgin soil. In Japan rice culture extends to poor unfavourable land
because the people want to have rice everywhere.[290] The Japanese have cultivated the same
paddies for centuries, Some American rice land is thrown out of cultivation after a few years.
In fertile localities the Japanese get twice the average crop. It must also be remembered that
Japanese paddies often produce two crops, a crop of rice and an after-crop. Japanese technicians
are well acquainted with Texan, Californian and Italian rice culture, and Japanese have tried
rice production both in California and Texas.

"They talk of Texan and Italian rice culture," said one man who had been abroad on a mission
of agricultural investigation, "but I found the comparative cost of rice production greater
in Texas than in Japan. Some Japanese farmers who went to Texas were overcome by weeds because
of dear labour. In Italian paddies, also, I saw many more weeds than in ours. It is rational,
of course, for Americans and Italians to use improved machinery, for they have expensive labour
conditions, but we have cheap labour. The Texans have large paddies because their land is cheap,
but ours is dear. In these big paddies the water cannot be kept at two or three inches, as
with us. It is necessarily five inches or so, too deep, and the soil temperature falls and
they lose on the crops what they gain by the use of machinery. Further, it must be remembered
that we are not producing our rice for export. It is a special kind for ourselves, which we
like;[291] but foreigners would just as soon have any other sort. We have no call, therefore,
to develop our rice culture in the same degree as our sericulture, which rests mainly on a
valuable oversea trade."

"On this general question of improvement of implements and methods," said another member of
our company, "we must use machinery and combine farming management when industrial progress
drives us to it; but why try to do it before we are compelled? Concerning horses, the difficulty
which some farmers have in using them is the difficulty of feeding them economically. Concerning
cereals, our consumption is not less than that of Germany, but Germany imports more than twice
the cereals we do, so there would seem to be something to be said for our system."

"Some revolutionising of Japanese farming is necessary, in combined threshing, for instance,"
the expert who had opened our discussion said. "This combined threshing is now seen in several
districts, and combined threshing will be extended. But there is the objection to the threshing
machine that it breaks the straw and thus spoils it for farmers' secondary industries. It should
not be impossible to invent some way of avoiding this, but the threshing machine is also too
heavy for narrow roads between paddies. It is difficult to deliver the crops to the machine
in sufficient bulk. Necessity may show us ways, but small threshing machines are not so economical.
Of course we must have much more co-operative buying of rural requirements, and certainly there
is room in some places for the Western scythe made smaller, but our people, as you have seen,
are dexterous with their extremely sharp, short sickle, and fodder is often cut on rather difficult
slopes, from which it is not easy to descend loaded, with a scythe. Some foreigners who speak
so positively about machinery for paddies, and for, I suppose, the sloping uplands to which
our arable farming is relegated, do not really grasp the physical conditions of our agriculture.
And they are always forgetting the warm dankness of our climate. They forget, too, that implements
for hand use are more efficient than machinery, and, if labour be cheap, more economical. They
forget above all that we are of necessity a small-holdings country."

Is it such a bad thing to be a small-holdings country? Does the rural life of countries which
are pre-eminently small-holding, like Denmark and Holland, compare so unfavourably with that
of England? I wonder how much money has been sunk--most of it lost--during the past quarter
of a century in attempts to increase small holdings in England.

"Because we have much remote, wild, uncultivated land," the speaker I have interrupted continued,
"that is not to say that most of it, often at a high elevation, or sloping, or poor in quality,
as well as remote, can be profitably broken up for paddies. Much of this land can be and ought
to be utilised in one fashion or another, but we have found some experiments in this direction
unprofitable, even when rice was dear. But it may be said, Why break up this wild land into
paddies? Why not have nice grassy slopes for cattle as in Switzerland? But our experts have
tried in vain to get grass established. The heavy rains and the heat enable the bamboo grass
to overcome the new fodder grass we have sown. The first year the fodder grass grows nicely,
but the second year the bamboo grass conquers. In Hokkaido and Saghalien we are conquering
bamboo grass with fodder grass. The advice to go in largely for fruit ignores the fact of our
steamy damp climate, which encourages sappy growth, disease and those insects which are so
numerous in Japan. We cannot do much more than grow for home consumption."

"The advice to draw the cultivation of our small farms under group control has not always been
profitable when followed by landlords," one who had not yet spoken remarked. "They have not
always made more when they farmed themselves than when they let their land. All the world over,
land workers do better for themselves than for others. Proposals further to capitalise farming
which, with a rural exodus already going on, would have the effect of driving people off the
land who are employed on it healthily and with benefit to the social organism, do not seem
to offer a more satisfactory situation for Japan. No country has shown itself less afraid of
business combination than Japan, and the world owes as much to industry as to agriculture,
and I am not in the least afraid of machinery and capital; but production is not our final
aim. Production is to serve us; we are not to serve production. If people can live in self-respect
on the land they are better off in many ways than if they are engaged in industry in some of
its modern developments."

"The world is also better off," my interpreter in his notes records me as saying when I was
pressed to state my opinion. "The day will come when the uselessness and waste of a certain
proportion of industry and commerce will be realised, when the saving power of an export and
import trade in unnecessary things will be questioned and when the cultivator of the ground
will be restored to the place in social precedence he held in Old Japan. With him will rank
the other real producers in art, literature and science, industry and commerce. The industrialisation
of the West and its capitalistic system have not been so perfectly successful in their social
results for it to be certain that Japan should be hurried more quickly in the industrial and
capitalistic direction than she is travelling already.[292] If she takes time over her development,
the final results may be better for her and for the world. I have not noticed that Japanese
rural people who have departed from a simple way of life through the acquirement of many farms
or the receipt of factory dividends have become worthier. On the question of the alleged over-population
of rural Japan, one Japanese investigator has suggested to me that as many as 20 per cent.
could be advantageously spared from agricultural labour. But he was not himself an agriculturist
or an ex-agriculturist. He was not even a rural resident. Further, he conceived his 20 per
cent. as entering rural rather than urban industry.

"A great deal of afforestation and better use of a large proportion of forest land, much more
co-operation for borrowing and buying, improved implements where improved implements can be
profitably used, animal and mechanical power where they can be employed to advantage, paddy
adjustment to the limit of the practical, more intelligent manuring, a wider use of better
seeds,[293] the bringing in of new land which is capable of yielding a profit when an adequate
expenditure is made upon it, a mental and physical education which is ever improving--all these,
joined to better ways of life generally, are obvious avenues of improvement, in Northern Japan
particularly, not to speak of Hokkaido.[294] But it is not so much the details of improvement
that seem urgently to need attention. It is the general principles. I have been assured again
and again by prefectural governors and agricultural experts--and in talking to a foreigner
they would hardly be likely to exaggerate--that considered plans for the prevention of disastrous
floods, for the breaking up of new land, for the provision of loans and for the development
of public intelligence and well-being were hindered in their areas by lack of money alone.
The degree to which rural improvements, with which the best interests of Japan now and in the
future are bound up, may have been arrested and may still be arrested by erroneous conceptions
of national progress and of the ends to which public energy and public funds[295] may be wisely
devoted is a matter for patriotic reflection.[296] No impression I have gained in Japan is
sharper than an impression of ardent patriotism. For good or ill, patriotism is the outstanding
Japanese virtue. What some patriots here and elsewhere do not seem to realise, however, is
what a quiet, homely, everyday thing true patriotism is. The Japanese, with so many talents,
so many natural and fortuitous advantages, and with opportunities, such as no other nation
has enjoyed, of being able to profit by the social, economic and international experience of
States that have bought their experience dearly and have much to rue, cannot fairly expect
to be lightly judged by contemporaries or by history. If the course taken by Japan towards
national greatness is at times uncertain, it is due no doubt to the fascinations of many will-o'-the-wisps.
There can be one basis only for the enlightened judgment of the world on the Japanese people:
the degree to which they are able to distinguish the true from the mediocre and the resolution
and common-sense with which they take their own way."

"Our rural problems," a sober-minded young professor added, after one of those pauses which
are usual in conversations in Japan, "is not a technical problem, not even an economic problem.
It is, as you have realised, a sociological problem. It is bound up with the mental attitude
of our people--and with the mental attitude of the whole world."

FOOTNOTES:

[273] A high authority assured me that 100 million yen (pre-War figures) could be laid out
to advantage. A Japanese economist's comment was: "Why not touch on the extraordinary proportion
of land owned by the Imperial Household and also by the State for military purposes?"

[274] In driving through what seemed to be one of the best streets in Sapporo, I noticed that
some exceptionally large houses were the dwellings of the registered prostitutes. Each house
had a large ground-floor window. Before it was a barrier about a yard high which cleared the
ground, leaving a space of about another yard. Such of the public as were interested were able,
therefore, to peer in without being identified from the street, for only their legs and feet
were visible. In Tokyo and elsewhere this exhibition of girls to the public has ceased. The
place of the girls is taken by enlarged framed photographs. I found on enquiry that the Sapporo
houses are so well organised as to have their proprietors' association. At a little town like
Obihiro an edifice was pointed out to me containing fifty or more women.

[275] The classification is 101,671 Protestants, 75,983 Roman Catholics and 36,265 Greek Church.

[276] "'Spade farming' is an apt designation of the system of farming or rather of cultivation,
for little is done in the way of raising stock."--PROFESSOR YOKOI.

[277] See Appendix XXX.

[278] But surely the basic reason against a large emigration of farmers and artisans to Formosa,
or to Manchuria, Mongolia or Korea, with the intention of working at their callings, is that
the standard of living is lower there? The chief attraction of America and Australasia is that
the standard of living is higher. The question of over-population must be considered in relation
to the facts in Appendices XXV, XXX and LXXX, and on page 331. It is not established that the
Japanese have now, or are likely to have in the near future, a pressing need to emigrate.

[279] See Appendix LXXII.

[280] See Appendix LXXIII.

[281] See Appendix LXXIV.

[282] Between 1909 and 1918 the average area of holdings rose from 1.03 to 1.09 chō or from
2.52 to 2.67 acres or 1.02 to 1.08 hectares.

[283] There were in 1919 some 13,000 co-operative societies of all sorts. The number increases
about 500 a year.

[284] For rise in production per tan, see Appendix LXXV.

[285] See Appendix LXXVI.

[286] See Appendix LXXVII.

[287] See Appendix LXXVIII.

[288] See, for example, C.V. Sale in the Transactions of the Society of Arts, 1907, and J.M.
McCaleb in the Transactions of the Asiatic Society of Japan, 1916.

[289] For the question, is rice the right crop for Japan? See Appendix LXXIX.

[290] Dr. Yahagi in an address delivered in Italy pointed out to his audience that Japan had
15 times as large an area under rice as Italy and that, while the Italian harvest ranged between
42 and 83 hectolitres per hectare, the Japanese ranged between 55 and 130. The area under rice
in the United States in 1920 was 1,337,000 acres and the yield 53,710,000 bushels. The area
under rice has steadily increased since 1913, when it was only 25,744,000 bushels.

[291] A well-informed Japanese who read this Chapter doubted the ability of his countrymen
to distinguish between native and Korean, Californian or Texan rice. Saigon is another matter.
See Appendix XXIV.

[292] "Some of our statesmen," notes a Japanese reader of this Chapter, "are carried away by
ideas of an industrial El Dorado." Such men have no understanding of the relation of rural
Japan to the national welfare. They are as blind guides as the Japanese who, caught by the
glamour of the West, threw away the artistic treasures of their forefathers and pulled down
beautiful temples and yashiki. Japan has much to gain from a wise and just industrial system,
but not a little of the present industrialisation is an exploitation of cheap labour, a destruction
of craftsmanship and social obligation, and an attempt to cut out the foreigner by the production
of rubbish.

[293] The chairman of Rothamsted declares as I write that the standard of English farming could
be raised 50 per cent. Hall and Voelcker have estimated that 20 million tons of farmyard manure
made in the United Kingdom is wasted through avoidable causes.

[294] For a discussion of the question of inner colonisation versus foreign expansion, see
Appendix LXXX.

[295] For figures bearing on the relative importance of agriculture, commerce and industry,
see Appendix LXXXI. For armaments, see Appendix XXXIII.

[296] There are many Britons who now reflect that millions which have gone into Mesopotamia
might have been better spent by the Ministries of Health and Education.

        The blessing of her sun-warmed days;
          Her sea-spun cloak of wet;
        Her pointing valleys, veiled in haze,
          Where field and wood have met;
        When we have gone our differing ways
          These we shall not forget.
                          L.T., in The New East.

APPENDICES

The sermon was bad enough, but the appendix was abominable.--MR. BOWDLER.

THE INCOME OF A MINISTER OF STATE FROM THE LAND[I]. The speaker began by inheriting 3 chō (7-1/2
acres). He farmed a chō of rice field and about a third of a chō of dry land. With rent from
the part he let, with gains from the part he farmed and with interest on 2,000 yen spare capital,
he had at end of the year a balance of 370 yen. With the money gained from year to year more
and more land was bought. At the time of his talk with me he owned 8 chō. His net income, after
deducting cost of living, was 1,200 yen (including 500 yen from the land that was let). In
the future, when he farmed 7 chō (15-1/2 acres), he believed that his balance would be 4,500
yen, which is the salary of a Governor! Or was, until the rise in prices when Governors' salaries
were raised about another 1,000 yen, with an additional allowance of from 600 to 400 yen in
the case of some prefectures. See also Appendix III.

"GETA" [II]. The geta is a flat piece of hard wood, about the length of the foot but a little
wider, with two stumpy pieces fastened transversely below it. The foot maintains an uncertain
and, in the case of a novice whose big toe has not been accustomed to separation from its fellows,
a painful hold by means of a toe strap of thick rope or cotton. To persons unused from childhood
to the special toe grip and scuffle of the geta, it seems odd to associate with this difficult
clattering footgear the idea of "luxury." But no pains are spared by the geta makers in choosing
fine woods and pretty cords.

BUDGETS OF LARGE PROPERTY OWNERS [III]. Two landlords, A and B, kindly allowed me to look into
their budgets:

A
                                yen
80 chō of rural land        320,000
20 chō of rural land         60,000
20,000 tsubo of city land   130,000
Negotiable instruments        150,000
Dwelling and furniture        150,000

             Total property   810,000
                              =======

EXPENDITURE OF PAST YEAR

                                yen
House                           2,100
Food and drink                  1,350
Clothing                        1,000
Social intercourse              1,500
Public benefit                    800
Miscellaneous                   1,000
Taxes                           5,000

                               12,750
                               ======

B

owns 62 chō 4 tan and receives in rent 623 koku 7 to. Members of family, 11; servants, 8.

EXPENDITURE OF PAST YEAR

                                                           yen
House                                                      519
Food and drink (18 sen each per day for members of
  family; 13 sen each for servants)                      1,102
Fuel                                                       156
Light                                                       36
Clothing                                                   770
Education (3 middle-school boys at 20 yen per month;
  3 primary-school boys and girls at 2 yen)                312
Social intercourse                                         120
Amusements (journey, 100 yen; summer trip, 231;
  others, 50)                                              381
Miscellaneous (servants, 480 yen; medicine, 150; other
  things, 150)                                             780
Donations                                                  300
Taxes                                                    3,976

                                                         8,451
                                                        ======

THE "BENJO" [IV]. I never noticed a case in which earth was thrown into the domestic closet
tub according to Dr. Poore's system. I have come across attempts to use deodorisers, but the
application of a germicide is inhibited because of the injury which would be caused to the
crops. Farmers are chary about removing night soil which has been treated even with a deodoriser.
I ventured to suggest more than once that Japanese science should be equal to evolving a deodoriser
to which the farmer, who in Japan seems to be so easily directed, could have no objection.
The drawback to using Dr. Poore's system is that the added earth would greatly increase the
weight of the substance to be removed. There would be the same objection to the use of hibachi
ash (charcoal ash), but there is not enough produced to have any sensible effect. The truth
is that there is no lively interest in the question of getting rid of the stink for everyone
has become accustomed to it. The odour from the benjo--the politer word is habakari--which
is always indoors, though at the end of the engawa (verandah), often penetrates the house.
(Engawa [edge or border] is the passage which faces to the open; roka is a passage inside a
house between two rooms or sometimes a bridgelike passage in the open, connecting two separate
buildings or parts of a house.) Emptying day is particularly trying. This much must be said,
however, that the farmers' tubs are washed, scrubbed and sunned after every journey and have
close-fitting lids. And primitive though the benjo is, it is scrupulously clean. Also, if it
is always more or less smelly, it is contrived on sound hygienic principles. There is no seat
requiring an unnatural position. The user squats over an opening in the floor about 2 ft. long
by 6 ins. wide. This opening is encased by a simple porcelain fitting with a hood at the end
facing the user. The top of the tub is some distance below the floor. In peasants' houses there
is no porcelain fitting. Manure is so valuable in Japan that farmers whose land adjoins the
road often build a benjo for the use of passers-by. Although the traveller in Japan has much
to endure from the unpleasant odour due to the thrifty utilisation of excreta, the Japanese
deserve credit for the fact that their countryside is never fouled in the disgusting fashion
which proves many of our rural folk to be behind the primitive standard of civilisation set
up in Deuteronomy (chap, xxiii. 13). The Western rural sociologist is not inclined to criticise
the sanitary methods of Japan. He is too conscious of the neglect in the West to study thoroughly
the grave question of sewage disposal in relation to the needs of our crops and the cost of
nitrogenous fertilisers. See also Appendix XX.

AGRICULTURAL SCHOOLS [V]. In Mr. Yamasaki's school there was dormitory accommodation for 200
youths, some 40 lived in teachers' houses, another 15 were in lodgings, and 45 came daily from
their parents' homes. Lads were admitted from 14 to 16 and the course was for 3 years. The
students worked 30 hours weekly indoors and the rest of their time outside. Upper and lower
grade agricultural schools number 280 with 23,000 students. In addition there are 7,908 agricultural
continuation schools with more than 430,000 pupils. The ratio of illiteracy in Japan for men
of conscription age (that is, excluding old people and young people), which had been over 5
per cent. up to 1911, was reported to be only 2 per cent. in 1917.

CRIME [VI]. In 1916 the chief offences in Japan were:

Dealt with at police station  445,502 Gambling and lotteries         81,649 Larceny       
81,063 Fraud and usurpation           49,772 Assaults                       19,022 Robbery
10,383 Arson                           9,533 Accidental assaults             3,277 Obscenity
2,796 Wilful injury                   2,032 Murder                          1,886 Abortion
1,252 Abduction                         907 Rioting                           813 Official
disgrace                 481 Military and naval                387 Desertion              
315 Forgery                           307 Coining                           206

PROSTITUTES [VII]. The chief of police was good enough to let me have a copy of the form to
be filled up by girls desiring to enter the houses in the prefecture. It is under nine heads:
1. The reason for adopting the profession. 2. Age. 3. Permission of head of household. If permission
is not forthcoming, reason why. 4. If a minor, proof of permission. 5. House at which the girl
is going to "work." 6. Home address. 7. Former means of getting a living. 8. Whether prostitute
before. If so, particulars. 9. Other details.

When I was in Japan there were reputed to be about 50,000 joro (prostitutes), about half that
number of geisha and about 35,000 "waitresses."

PHILANTHROPIC AGENCIES [VIII]. In 1917 the number of paupers, tramps and foundlings relieved
by the State did not exceed 10,000. The number of institutions was 730 (of which 40 were run
by foreigners), with the expenditure of about 5-1/2 million yen.

CHANGES IN RURAL STATUS [IX]. It seemed that during 47 years 18 tenants had become peasant
proprietors, 14 peasant proprietors had become landowners (that is men who make their living
by letting land rather than by working it), 8 tenants had stepped straightway into the position
of landowners, 7 landowners had fallen to the grade of peasant proprietors and 7 more to that
of tenants, while 114 householders had changed their callings or had gone to Hokkaido.

HOURS OF WORK PER DAY [X]. One of these villages showed that during January and February it
worked 6 hours, during March and April 8 hours, from May to August 12-1/2 hours, during September
and October 9-1/2 hours, and during November and December 9 hours. There was a further record
of labour at night. In January and February it worked from 6:30 p.m. to 10 p.m., during March
and April and September and October from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. and in November and December from
7 p.m. to 10 p.m. As in the period from May to August inclusive the day working hours were
from 5 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., there then was no night labour.

DILIGENT PEOPLE AND OTHERS [XI]. The adults of the village were classified as follows: Diligent
people, men 294, women 260; average workers, men 270, women 236; other people, men 242, women
191. One supposes that, in considering the women's activities, all that was estimated was the
number of hours spent in agricultural work or in remunerative employment in the evening.

FARM AREAS AND DAYS WORKED IN THE YEAR [XII]. The information concerned three typical peasant
proprietors, A, B and C, living in the same county. The areas of their land are given in tan:

---------------------------------------------------------------------
  |Where farming |Paddy |Dry |Homestead |Rented  |Children |Parents |
---------------------------------------------------------------------
A |In hills      |6     |3   |1         |  --    |3        |2       |
B |On plain      |6.6   |2.6 |.5        |2 paddy |3        |2       |
C |Near town     |6     |4   |1         |  --    |3        |-       |
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Next we are told the number of days that not only A, B and C but their wives and their parents
worked and did not work during the year:

--------------------------------------------------------------------
             |            |Domestic |National   |        |Remaining
             |Agriculture |Work     |Holidays & |Illness |Days
             |            |         |Festivals  |        |
--------------------------------------------------------------------
         {A  |254         | 28      |25         | 6      |52
Husbands {B  |239         | 37      |25         | -      |64
         {C  |231         | 49      |19         | 2      |64
             |            |         |           |        |
         {A  |239         | 54      | 7         | -      |64
Wives    {B  |150         |128      |26         | -      |64
         {C  |141         |174      | 9         | -      |41
             |            |         |           |        |
         {A  |144         | 47      |85         |18      |72
Fathers  {B  |205         | 69      |40         | -      |51
         {C  | -          | -       | -         | -      | -
             |            |         |           |        |
         {A  | 15         |324      | 6         | -      |20
Mothers  {B  | 82         |220      |23         | -      |41
         {C  | -          | -       | -         | -      | -
--------------------------------------------------------------------

It will be seen that men only were ill! [See next page.]

For average of hours worked elsewhere, see page 232 and page 237.

FARMERS' EARNINGS AND SPENDINGS [XIII]. If the reader should feel that the following details
are lacking in comprehensiveness or definiteness, he should understand that reports of a national
and authoritative character on the economic condition of the farmer were not available. There
existed certain reports of the Ministry of Agriculture, but they were subjected to criticism.
The National Agricultural Association had set on foot an elaborate enquiry as to the condition
of the "middle farmer," but it was suggested that too much reliance was placed on arithmetical
calculations and too little on known facts. I have had to rely, therefore, on official and
private investigations made in various prefectures and villages, and I give a selection for
what they are worth. Of the general condition of the agricultural population the reader is
offered the impressions recorded in my different Chapters.

INCOMES AND EXPENDITURES OF PEASANT PROPRIETORS.--

The incomes and expenditures of the three households referred to in Appendix XII were:

-----------------------------------------
    |Income |Expenditure |Balance in hand
-----------------------------------------
    |yen    |yen         |yen
  A |477    |449         |28
  B |915    |838         |77
  C |971    |703         |68
-----------------------------------------

HOUSEHOLD EXPENDITURES.--The household expenditures of the three families were, in yen:

-------------------------------------------
                    |A      |B      |C
-------------------------------------------
                    |yen    |yen    |yen
Food                |192.76 |216.64 |189.57
House               |  2.32 |  2.24 |  1.20
Clothes             | 18.72 | 15.16 | 10.08
Fuel                | 12.72 | 13.53 | 21.00
Tools and furniture | 10.97 |160.18 |  1.66
Social intercourse  |  9.58 |  --   |  6.05
Education           |  1.56 |  --   |  4.15
Amusement           |  3.30 |  2.03 | 18.00
Unforeseen          |  7.85 | 13.72 | 22.33
Miscellaneous       |  6.43 |  7.71 | 11.15
                    |-------|-------|------
                    |266.21 |431.21 |285.19
-------------------------------------------

It will be observed that the expenditure of B under the heading of furniture, 160 yen, is out
of all proportion with the expenditures of A and C, 10 yen and 1 yen respectively. This is
due to the fact that B had to provide a bride's chest for a daughter.

A balance sheet given me by a peasant proprietor in Aichi (5tan of two-crop paddy and 5 tan
of upland) showed a balance in hand of 27 yen.

An agricultural expert said to me, "The peasant proprietors are the backbone of the country,
but the condition of the backbone is not good. The peasant proprietors can make ends meet only
by secondary employments." The expert showed me average figures for 18 farmers for 1891, 1900
and 1909. The average land of these men was a little over a chō of paddy and 5 tan of upland
and some woodland. They had spent 39, 63 and 86 yen on artificial manures as against 100, 153
and 204 yen on food. The balance at the end of the year for the three years respectively was
27, 40 and 29 yen. "The figures reflect the general condition," I was told.

INCOMES AND EXPENDITURES OF TENANTS.--I may also note the circumstances of the largest and
of the smallest tenant in an Aichi village I visited. The largest tenant family showed a balance
in hand, 93 yen; the smallest tenant, 23 yen.

The accounts of 16 tenants for 1891 showed an average sum of 3 yen in hand at the end of the
year, for 1900 a loss of 5 yen and for 1909 a gain of 1 yen. These men had an average of 9
tan of paddy and 2 tan of upland. The man who gave me the data said that in the north-east
of Japan "the condition of the tenants is miserable--eating almost cattle food." The only bright
spot for tenants was that, as compared with peasant proprietors, they were free to change their
holdings and even their business.

INCOMES OF TENANTS AND PEASANT PROPRIETORS (SHIDZUOKA).--One tenant, who pays 159 yen in rent
and taxes, shows a total income of 374 yen and an expenditure of 538 yen, with a net loss of
164 yen. "Farmers of this class," notes the local expert on the memorandum he gave me, "are
becoming poorer every year." This tenant spent 2 yen on medicine and 5 yen on tobacco. ("Nothing
else for enjoyment," pencils the expert.) In addition to parents, a man, a woman and a girl
of the family worked. Food cost 321 yen (cost of fish and meat, 4-1/2 yen) and clothing 34 yen.

In a "model village," where "the farmers are always diligent," a small tenant's income was
508 yen and expenditure 527 yen; loss, 19 yen. Clothes cost 95 yen and food 190 yen. (Cost
of fish and meat, 4-3/4 yen.) There was an expenditure on medicine of 1-1/2 yen and on tobacco
and saké ("only enjoyment") 10 yen.

Twenty per cent, of the farmers, I was told, "lead a middle-class life and occupy a somewhat
rational area of land." The budgets often of these men, who own their own land, show a balance
of 85 yen. "If they were tenants they would not be in such a good condition." "We think the
farmer ought to have 2 chō."

BUDGETS OF FARMERS ON THE LAND OF THE HOMMA CLAN, YAMAGATA (page 186).--A tenant had 3 chō
of paddy and a small piece of vegetable land. There lived with him his wife, two sons and the
widow and child of the eldest son. After paying his rent he had 30 koku of rice left. The cost
of production and taxes, 100 yen or a little more, had to come out of that. This tenant had
a debt of 250 yen.

A sturdy wagoner with a sturdy horse lived with his wife and three children and his old mother.
He hired 1 chō for 28 koku of rice and his crop was 40 koku. He spent 30 yen on manure and
4 yen went in taxes.

A middle-grade farmer owned a house and a little more than 1 chō and rented 3 chō of paddy
and a patch for vegetables. His rent was about 38 koku. He spent 100 yen on manure and 128
yen for taxes, temple dues and regulation of the paddy. He employed at 2-1/2 koku a man who
lived with the family, also temporary labour for 48 days. His crop might be 100 koku or more.
He had no debt.

A third man was above the middle grade of farmer. His taxes were 240 yen and his manure bill
130 yen. His payment for paddy-field regulation, to continue for ten years, was 60 yen. He
had three labourers and he also hired extra labour for 100 days. He had three unmarried sons
of 40, 29 and 25. There were 260 yen of pensions in respect of the war service of one son and
the death of another.

INCOME OF PEASANT PROPRIETORS (HOKKAIDO).--The following statistics for the whole of Hokkaido
are based on the experience of peasant proprietors. The 2-1/2 chō men are rice farmers--rice
farming means farming with rice as the principal crop. The 5-chō men are engaged in mixed farming:

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Farmer's|Income |  Income  | Total |  Cost of  |Cost of |Total |Balance.
  Area  | from  |from Other|       |Cultivation|Living  |Outlay|
        |Farming|   Work   |       |           |        |      |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
        |  yen  |    yen   |  yen  |    yen    |  yen   | yen  | yen
2-1/2   |       |          |       |           |        |      |
chō     |  366  |     43   |  409  |    107    |  276   | 382  |  27
        |       |          |       |           |        |      |
5 chō   |  441  |     33   |  474  |    119    |  301   | 423  |  52
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

It will be seen that mixed farming is the more profitable.

Income of Tenants (Hokkaido).--Professor Takaoka was kind enough to give me the following summaries
of balance sheets of tenants of college lands in different parts of Hokkaido in 1915. (In all
cases the accounts have been debited with wages for the farmer's family.)

Five chō. Income, 447 yen; net return, 37 yen. (Rye, wheat, oats, corn, soy, potatoes, grass,
flax, buckwheat and rape. One horse and a few hens.)

Five chō. Income, 763 yen; net return, 58 yen. (Rye, wheat, oats, rape, soy, potatoes, corn,
grass, flax and onions. Three cows, one horse.)

Ten chō. Income, 1,015 yen; net return, 122 yen. (Same crops with two cows and one horse and
some hired labour.)

Five chō (peppermint on 3 chō). Income, 882 yen; net return, 93 yen.

Three chō. Income, 1,195 yen; net return, 332 yen. (Vegetable farming. 206 yen paid for labour.)

Thirty chō. Income, 1,979 yen; net return, 61 yen. (Mixed farming; 632 yen paid for labour.)

Model 5-chō farm without rice. Made 604 yen, and 107 yen net return, farm capital being 1,487
yen. (208 yen allowed for labour, interest 128 yen, amortisation 27 yen, and taxes 13 yen.)

Milk farmer, 12 chō and 90 cattle. Income, 12,280 yen; net return of 3,641 yen.

2,120 chō (1,235 forest, 402 pasture, 110 artificial grass and 42 crops; 111 cattle). Income,
66,205 yen; net return, 1,011 yen. (Milk and meat farming.)

Average income and expenditure of 200 tenants of University land whose budgets Professor Morimoto
(see Chapter XXXIV) investigated:

                                                         yen
Crops                                                   451.66
Wages earned                                             61.33
Horses                                                   20.09
Poultry and eggs                                           .96
Pigs                                                       .85
Manure (animal, 35 kwan; human, 14 koku)             24.50
Other income                                             29.64
                                                        ------
                                                        589.03
                                                 yen
Cultivation, etc.                               206.32
Cost of living                                  303.33
                                                ------
                                                509.65
                                                        ------
Profit                                                   79.38
                                                        ======

The returns of capital yielded the following averages:

                                                           yen
Tenant right in respect of 5-16 chō                    750.82
Buildings (32.2 tsubo)                                 195.95
Clothing                                                 162.82
Horse (average 1.23)                                     108.48
Furniture                                                 58.47
Implements                                                51.23
Poultry (average 2.58)                                     1.15
Pigs (average .12)                                          .87
                                                       --------
                                              Total    1,329.79
                                                       ========

VALUE OF NEW PADDY [XIV]. More delicious rice could be got, I was told, from well-fertilised
barren land than from naturally fertile land. The first year the new paddy yielded per tan
an average of 1.2 koku, the second 1.6, the third 2, and this fourth year the yield would have
been 2.3 had it not been for damage by storm.

AREAS AND CROPS OF DIFFERENT KINDS OF RICE [XV]. In 1919 there was grown of paddy rice 2,984,750
chō (2,729,639 ordinary, 255,111 glutinous) and of upland rice 141,365 chō. Total, 3,126,115
chō. The yield (husked, uncleaned) was of paddy 61,343,403 koku (ordinary, 56,438,005; glutinous,
4,905,398); of upland, 1,839,312. Total, 63,182,715 koku; value, 2,352,145,519 yen.

In 1877 the area is reputed to have been 1,940,000 chō with a yield of 24,450,000 koku and
in 1882 2,580,000 chō with a yield of 30,692,000 koku. The average of the five years 1910-14
was 3,033,000 chō with a yield of 57,006,000 koku; of the five years 1915-19, 3,081,867 chō
with a yield of 94,817,431 koku.

In a prefecture in south-western Japan I found that 2 koku 5 to (or 2-1/2 koku, there being
10 to in a koku) per tan was common and that from 3 koku to 3 koku 5 to was reached. "A good
yield for 1 tan," says an eminent authority, "is 3 koku, or on the best fields even 4 koku."
The average yield in koku per tan for the whole country has been (paddy-field rice only): 1882,
1.19; 1894-8, 1.38; 1899-1903, 1.44; 1904-8, 1.57; 1909-13, 1.63; 1914-18, 1.86; 1919, 1.99;
1920, 2.05 (ordinary, 2.06; glutinous, 1.92). Upland rice in 1920, 1.30 as against 1.02 in
1909. All these figures are for husked, uncleaned rice.

BARLEY AND WHEAT CROPS [XVI]. The following table (average of five years, 1913-17) shows the
yields per tan of the two sorts of barley and of wheat and the average yield all three together
in comparison with the rice yield (all quantities husked):

                 go                          go
Barley           1,672 | All three together    1,307
Naked barley     1,172 | Rice                  1,808
Wheat            1,073 |

Naked barley is grown as an upland crop, as are ordinary barley and wheat; but it is more largely
grown as a second crop in paddies than either barley or wheat. The barleys are chiefly used
for human food with or without rice. Wheat is eaten in macaroni, sweetstuffs and bread. It
is also used in considerable quantities in the manufacture of soy, the chief ingredient of
which is beans. There was imported in the year 1920 wheat to the value of 28-1/2 million yen,
and flour to the value of 3-1/4 million yen. Macaroni is largely made of buckwheat as well
as of wheat. The other grain crop is millet, which is eaten by the poorest farmers. In 1918,
as against 60 million koku of rice, there were grown 5 million koku of beans and peas. The
crops of barley were 17 million, of wheat 6 million, of millet 3-1/4 million, and of buckwheat
3/4 million. More than a million kwan of sweet potatoes were produced and nearly half a million
of "Irish" potatoes. (The figures for barley and wheat are for 1919.)

COST AND PRICE OF RICE [XVII]. The annual figures (from Aichi) for the years 1894 to 1915 (page
384) show the cost of producing a tan of rice, that is the summer crop. The amounts per tan
are calculated on the basis of the expenses of a tenant who is cropping 8 tan. The totals for
the winter crop are also given. The figures which appear on the opposite page were described
to me by the farmer concerned as "compiled on the basis of investigations by the chairman of
the village agricultural association and by its managers and still further proved and quite
trustworthy." It will be seen that the value of the winter crop is low; a secondary employment
is usually a better thing for the farmer. In one or two places there is a sen or so difference
in the additions which may have been made by the transcriber from the Japanese original. The
difference in amounts of rent is due to difference in fields rented and also to reduction allowed
owing to bad crops. The difference in the income from crops is usually due to destruction by
hail or wind.

COST AND PRICE OF RICE (see page 383)

|Year |      |Yield in |      |koku |      |      |Reserved for Rent |      |      |and Seeds
(koku) |      |      |      |Market Price per |      |      |      |koku (yen) |      |   
|      |       |Gross Income including |      |      |      |       |Straw and Chaff, |   
|      |      |       |not usually sold (yen) |      |      |      |       |       |Manures
(yen) |      |      |      |       |       |     |Taxes and Amortisation |      |      |  
|       |       |     |of Implements (sen) |      |      |      |       |       |     |   
|Total Outlay (yen) |      |      |      |       |       |     |    |      |Net Income from
Summer |      |      |      |       |       |     |    |      |Crop of Rice (yen) |      |
|      |       |       |     |    |      |       |Days of Labour on |      |      |      |
|       |     |    |      |       |Summer Crop of Rice |      |      |      |       |     
|     |    |      |       |      |Net Income from |      |      |      |       |       |  
|    |      |       |      |Winter Crop (?Barley) |      |      |      |       |       |  
|    |      |       |      |       |Total Net |      |      |      |       |       |     |
|      |       |      |       |Income from |      |      |      |       |       |     |   
|      |       |      |       |both Crops. |------|------|------|-------|-------|-----|----|------|-------|------|-------|-------|
| 1894 | 2.23 | 1.05 |  7.66 |  9.81 | 2   | 21 | 2.21 |  7.60 |  2.5 |  2.51 | 10.11 | | 1895
| 2.13 | 1.05 |  8.09 |  8.71 | 2   | 21 | 2.26 |  6.45 | 21.5 |  2.48 |  8.92 | | 1896 | 1.53
|  .80 |  8.67 |  6.89 | 2.4 | 22 | 2.58 |  4.31 | 21.5 |  3.38 |  7.69 | | 1897 | 1.88 | 1.05
| 11.53 | 10.63 | 2.9 | 23 | 3.13 |  7.50 | 21.5 |  5.22 | 12.72 | | 1898 | 2.39 | 1.05 | 14.62
| 21.13 | 3.2 | 25 | 3.40 | 17.73 | 21.5 |  5.50 | 23.23 | | 1899 | 1.75 |  .88 | 12.05 | 11.48
| 3.8 | 30 | 4.11 |  7.37 | 21   |  2.22 |  9.99 | | 1900 | 2.14 | 1.05 | 11.11 | 13.24 | 4.1
| 31 | 4.40 |  8.84 | 21   |  4.22 | 13.06 | | 1901 | 2.10 | 1.05 | 10.53 | 12.06 | 4   | 32
| 4.35 |  7.71 | 21   |  3.87 | 11.58 | | 1902 | 1.86 |  .99 | 12.99 | 12.40 | 3.1 | 38 | 3.51
|  8.89 | 21   |  4.11 | 13    | | 1903 | 2.06 | 1.04 | 12.50 | 13.85 | 3.4 | 49 | 3.79 | 10.05
| 21   |  6    | 16.85 | | 1904 | 2.24 | 1.03 | 12.20 | 16    | 2.6 | 53 | 3.11 |  9.89 | 21
|  6.06 | 15.95 | | 1905 | 1.77 |  .99 | 13.42 | 11.60 | 2.1 | 46 | 2.55 |  9.05 | 21   | 
6.67 | 15.71 | | 1906 | 1.96 | 1.05 | 15.15 | 15 09 | 4   | 56 | 4.61 | 10.49 | 21   |  5.79
| 16.27 | | 1907 | 1.98 | 1.14 | 16.39 | 16.69 | 4.4 | 42 | 4.83 | 11.84 | 21   |  8.60 | 20.43
| | 1908 | 2.21 | 1.14 | 14.29 | 16.80 | 5.1 | 42 | 5.54 | 11.26 | 21   | 10.79 | 22.05 | |
1909 | 2.27 | 1.14 | 11.63 | 14.39 | 3.7 | 99 | 4.64 |  9.75 | 21   | 11.49 | 21.24 | | 1910
| 2.02 | 1.14 | 14.09 | 13.37 | 4.5 | 80 | 5.27 |  8.51 | 21   | 12.41 | 20.91 | | 1911 | 2.22
| 1.14 | 16.67 | 19.72 | 4.4 | 78 | 5.13 | 14.59 | 21   | 13.49 | 28.08 | | 1912 | 2.02 | 
.90 | 21.74 | 26.48 | 5.9 | 75 | 6.60 | 19.88 | 21.5 |  3.73 | 23.6  | | 1913 | 2.31 | 1.14
| 20.83 | 24.67 | 6.5 | 79 | 7.30 | 17.37 | 21.5 | 12.62 | 30    | | 1914 | 2.48 | 1.14 | 12.50
| 18.29 | 5.8 | 78 | 6.53 | 11.75 | 21.5 | 11.54 | 23.30 | | 1915 | 2.36 | 1.20 | 11.77 | 14.91
| 5.8 | 82 | 6.67 |  8.24 | 21.5 |  9.67 | 18.91 |

This table may be supplemented by the following prices for (unpolished) rice in Tokyo: 1916,
13 yen 76 sen; 1917, 19 yen 84 sen; 1918, 32 yen 75 sen; 1919, 45 yen 99 sen.

In the spring of 1921 the League for the Prevention of Sales of Rice at a Sacrifice proposed
that rice should not be sold under 35 yen per koku. The price passed the figure of 35 yen in
July 1918. At the time the League's proposals were made the Ministry of Agriculture was quoted
as stating that the cost of producing rice "is now 40 yen per koku." The accuracy of the figures
on which the Ministry's estimates are made is frequently called in question.

CULTIVATED AREA IN JAPAN AND GREAT BRITAIN [XVIII]. In 1919 there were in Great Britain (England,
Scotland, Wales, the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands) 15,808,000 acres of arable, 15,910,000
of pasture and 13,647,000 of grazing, or a total of 45,365,000 acres out of a total area of
56,990,000 acres. In Japan there were 15,044,202 acres of paddy and of cultivated upland, 46,958,000
acres of forest and 8,773,000 acres of waste; total 70,775,000, out of 90,880,000 acres. The
area of the United Kingdom without Ireland is 56,990,080 acres; that of Japan Proper, 75,988,378
acres. The population of the United Kingdom without Ireland (in 1911) was 41,126,000, and of
Japan Proper (in 1911) 51,435,000. (See also Appendix XXX.)

HUMAN LABOUR v. CATTLE POWER [XIX]. The Department of Agriculture stated in 1921 that "from
200 to 300, sometimes more than 500 days' labour [of one man] are required to grow a chō of
rice." The area of paddy which is ploughed by horse or cattle power was 61.89 per cent. The
area of upland so cultivated was only 38.97 per cent. The "average year's work of the ordinary
adult farmer" was put at 200 days. The Department estimated an average man's day's work (10
hours) as follows:

---------------------------------------------------------------------
Nature of Work          | Tools used                   |Output by one
                        |                              | Man per Day
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                        |                              |hectare
Tillage of paddy        |Kuwa (mattock)              | 0.06
  "     "   "           |Fumi-guwa (heavy spade)     | 0.1-0.15
Transplanting rice      |Hand work                     | 0.07-0.1
Weeding                 |Sickle and weeding tools      | 0.1
Cutting the rice crop   |Sickle                        | 0.1-0.15
Mowing grass            |Sickle (long handle)          | 0.5
  "      "              |Scythe                        | 0.5
---------------------------------------------------------------------

But I have never seen a scythe in use in Japan!

MANURE [XX]. The value of the manure used in Japan in a year has been estimated at about 220
million yen, but for the three years ending 1916 it averaged 241 millions, as follows:

Produced or obtained by the Farmer  | Purchased
                        yen         |                         yen
Compost              63,500,000     | Bean cake            32,000,000
Human waste          54,000,000     | Mixed                17,000,000
Green manure          9,600,000     | Miscellaneous        16,000,000
Rice chaff            5,000,000     | Sulphate of ammonia  15,000,000
                                    | Superphosphate       12,000,000
                                    | Fish waste           12,000,000

Dr. Sato puts the artificial manure used per tan at a sixth of that of Belgium and a quarter
of that of Great Britain and Germany. See also Appendix IV. An agricultural expert once said
to me, "Japanese farmer he keep five head of stock, his own family."

SOWING OF RICE [XXI]. A common seeding time is the eighty-eighth day of the year according
to the old calendar, say May 1 or 2. Transplanting is very usual at the end of May or early
in June. In Kagawa, Shikoku, I found that rice was sown at the beginning of May or even at
the end of April, the transplanting being done in mid-June. The harvest was obtained 10 per
cent. about September 10th, 30 per cent. in October and 60 per cent. about the beginning of
November. The winter crop of naked barley was sown in the first quarter of December and was
harvested late in May or early in June, so there was just time for the rice planting in mid-June.

In Kochi the first crop is sown about March 15, the seedlings are put out in mid-May and the
harvest is ready about August 10. The second crop, which has been sown in June, is ready with
its seedlings from August 13 to August 15, and the harvest arrives about November 1 and 2.
The first crop may yield about 3 koku, the second 1-1/2 koku.

A good deal depends in raising a big crop on a good seed bed. This is got by reducing the quantity
of seed used and by applying manure wisely. Whereas formerly as much as from 5 to 7 go of seed
was sown per tsubo, the biggest crops are now got from 1 go.

The Japanese names of the most widely grown varieties are Shinriki, Aikoku, Omachi, Chikusei
and Sekitori. At an experiment station I copied the names of the varieties on exhibition there:
Banzai, Patriotism, Japanese Embroidery, Good-looking, Early Power of God, Bamboo, Small Embroidery,
Power of God, Mutual Virtue, Yellow Bamboo, Late White, Power of God (glutinous), Silver Rice
Cake and Eternal Rice Field.

There are several thousand chō in the vicinity of Tokyo where, owing to the low temperature
of the marshy soil, the seed is sown direct in the paddies, not broadcast but at regular intervals
and in thrice or four times the normal quantities.

RATE OF PLANTING [XXII]. I have been told that an adult who has the seedlings brought to his
or her hand can stick in a thousand an hour. The early varieties may be set in clumps of seven
or eight plants; middle-growth sorts may contain from five to six; the latest kind may include
only three or four. The number of clumps planted may be 42 per tsubo, which, as a tsubo is
nearly four square yards, is about ten per square yard. The clumps are put in their places
by being pushed into the mud. A straight line is kept by means of a rope. The success of the
crop depends in no small degree on skilful planting.

HOW MUCH RICE DOES A JAPANESE EAT? [XXIII]. The daily consumption of rice per head, counting
young and old, is nearly 3 go. (A go is roughly a third of a pint.) A sturdy labourer will
consume at least 5 go in a day, and sometimes 7 or even 10 go. The allowance for soldiers is
6 go. These quantities represent the rice uncooked. In recent years more and more rice has
been eaten by those who formerly ate barley or mainly barley. And some who once ate a good
deal of millet and hiye are now eating a certain amount of rice. The average annual consumption
per head of the Japanese population (Korea and Formosa excluded from the calculation) was:
1888-93, 948 go; 1908-13, 1,037 go; 1913-18, 1,050 go. The averages of 25 years (1888-1912)
were: production, 42,756,584 koku; consumption, 44,410,725 koku; deficit, 1,984,970 koku; population,
45,140,094; per head, 0.980 koku. In 1921 the Department of Agriculture, estimating a population
of 55,960,000 (see Appendix XXX) and an annual consumption per head of 1.1 koku per year, put
the national consumption for a year at about 61,550,000 koku. See also Appendix XXVI.

IMPORTED AND EXPORTED RICE [XXIV]. "Good rice" is imported from Korea and Formosa. The objection
is to "Rangoon" rice. But most of the imported rice does not come from Rangoon but from Saigon.
The figures for 1919 were in yen: China, 283,011; British India, 1,012,979; Kwantung, 15,053,977;
Siam, 29,367,430; French Indo-China, 116,313,525; other countries, 39,918; total, 162,070,840.
The exports in 1919 were in yen: China, 1,354; Australia, 6,570; Asiatic Russia, 165,463; Kwantung,
213,633; British America, 356,600; United States, 476,756; Hawaii, 3,046,598; other countries,
60,707--all obviously in the main for Japanese consumption. The total imports and exports were
in koku and yen over a period of years:

--------------------------------------------------------
       |       Imports         |       Exports         |
  Year |-----------------------|-----------|-----------|
       |  Koku   |Value (yen)|  Koku   |Value (yen)|
--------------------------------------------------------
  1909 | 1,325,243 | 13,585,817|  422,513  | 5,867,290 |
  1910 |   918,627 |  8,644,439|  429,251  | 5,900,477 |
  1911 | 1,719,566 | 11,721,085|  216,198  | 3,940,541 |
  1912 | 2,234,437 | 30,193,481|  208,423  | 4,367,824 |
  1913 | 3,637,269 | 48,472,304|  204,002  | 4,372,979 |
  1914 | 2,022,644 | 24,823,933|  260,738  | 4,974,108 |
  1915 |   457,606 |  4,886,125|  662,629  | 9,676,969 |
  1916 |   309,158 |  3,087,616|  686,479  |11,197,356 |
  1917 |   564,376 |  6,513,373|  769,129  |14,662,546 |
  1918 | 4,647,168 | 89,755,678|  264,565  | 8,321,965 |
  1919 | 4,642,382 |162,070,840|   95,219  | 4,327,690 |
  1920 |   471,083 | 18,059,194|  116,249  | 5,897,675 |
--------------------------------------------------------

The twenty-five years' average (1888-1912) of excess of import over export was 1,339,493 koku.
See also Appendix XXVIII.

INCREASE OF RICE YIELD AND OF POPULATION [XXV].

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
           |           |           |Percentage |           | Percentage
           |    1882   |   1913    |   of      |   1918    |    of
           |           |           |Increase   |           |Increase[*]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Population |36,700,000 |53,362,000 |   45      |66,851,000 |    55
Rice crop  |30,692,000 |50,222,000 |   63      |53,893,000 |    75
  (koku) |           |           |           |           |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

* 1882-1918. The degree to which the increase in production will be maintained is of course
a matter for discussion. As far as rice is concerned, it must be borne in mind that there is
an increasing consumption per head.

FARMERS' DIET [XXVI]. It is officially stated in 1921 that "the common farm diet consists of
a mixture of cooked rice and barley as the principal food with vegetables and occasionally
fish." The barley is what is known as naked barley. Ordinary barley is eaten in northern Japan,
but two-thirds of the barley eaten elsewhere is the wheat-like naked barley, which cannot be
grown in Fukushima and the north. The husking of ordinary barley is hard work. The young men
do it during the night when it is cool. They keep on until cock-crow. Their songs and the sound
of their mallets make a memorable impression as one passes through a village on a moonlight
night. Another substitute for rice beyond millet is hiye (panic grass). In the south it is
regarded as a weed of the paddies, but in the north many tan are planted with this heavy-yielding
small grain.

TAXATION [XXVII]. Before 1906 national taxation was 2.5 per cent. of the legal price of land.
In 1900 it was 3.3 per cent., in 1904 5.5 per cent., in 1911 4.7 per cent, and in 1915 4.5
per cent. But local taxation increased in greater proportion.

FLAVOUR OF RICE AND PRICE FLUCTUATIONS [XXVIII]. Japanese rice has a fatty flavour which the
people of Japan like. Therefore the native rice commands a higher price in Japan than Chinese
or Indian rice. With the exception of a small quantity exported to Japanese abroad, Japanese
rice is consumed in Japan. The supply of it and the demand for it are exclusively a Japanese
affair. Naturally, when the crop fails the price soars, and when there is a superabundant harvest
the price comes down to the level of foreign rice. Here is the secret of the enormous fluctuations
in the price of Japanese rice with which the authorities have so often endeavoured to cope.

The Government granary plan is the third big effort of authority to manage rice prices. The
Okuma Government, under the administration of which rice went down to 14 yen per koku, had
a Commission to raise prices. The Terauchi Ministry, at a time when prices rose, touching 55
yen, had a Commission to bring prices down.

AREA AND CLIMATE [XXIX]. Japan Proper comprises a main island, three other large islands in
sight of the main island, and archipelagos--4,000 islets have been counted. The main island,
Honshu, with Shikoku behind it, lies off the coast of Korea; the next largest and northernmost
island, Hokkaido, off the coast of Siberia, and the remaining sizeable island and the southernmost,
Kyushu, off the coast of China over against the mouth of the Yangtse. The area of this territory,
that is of Japan before the acquirement of Formosa, Korea, southern Saghalien and part of Manchuria,
is about 142,000 square miles in area, which is that of Great Britain in possession not of
one Wales but of four, or nearly 1 per cent. of the area of Asia. But there are several million
more people in Japan than there are inhabitants of Great Britain and thrice as many as there
are Britons in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and India. (See also Appendix XXX.)
Japan, which lies between the latitudes of Cairo and the Crimea, may be said to consist of
mountains, of which fifty are active volcanoes, with some land, either hilly or boggy, at the
foot of them. It is nowhere more than 200 miles across and in one place is only 50. A note
on the ocean currents which exercise an influence on agriculture will be found on page 195.
The protection afforded to the eastern prefectures by mountain ranges is obvious. Generally
the summer temperature of Japan is higher and the winter temperature is lower than is recorded
in Europe and America within the same latitudes.

"The mild climate and abundant rainfall," says the Department of Agriculture, "stimulate a
luxuriant forest development throughout the country which in turn provides ample fountain heads
for rivers. The rivers and streams run in all directions, affording opportunity for irrigation
all over the country. The insular position of the country renders its humidity high and its
rainfall abundant when compared with Continental countries. The rainy season prevails during
the months of June and July, making this season risky for the harvest of wheat and barley;
on the other hand it affords a beneficent irrigation supply to paddy-grown rice, which is the
most important crop. The characteristic feature of the climate in the greater part of the islands
is the frequency of storms in the months of August and September. As the flowers of the rice
plant commence to bloom during the same period, these late summer storms cause much damage."

The weather in Tokyo in 1918 was as follows:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
            |Jan.|Feb.|Mar.|Apl.| May|June|July|Aug.|Sept.|Oct.|Nov.|Dec.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rain and    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |     |    |    |
  snow (mm.)|  10|  65| 163| 108| 123| 149|  82|  78|  202| 135| 142| 80
Temp. (C.)  | 1.6| 3.6| 6.7|11.7|16.7|20.2|26.0|26.0| 22.6|16.0|10.4|3.9
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The varied climate of Japan is indicated by the following statistics for centres as far distant
as Nagasaki in the extreme south-west and Sapporo in Hokkaido:

---------------------------------------------------------------------
                |Nagasaki| Kyoto |Tokyo | Niigata | Aomori | Sapporo
----------------|--------|-------|------|---------|--------|---------
 Days of rain or|        |       |      |         |        |
  snow          |   179  |   176 |  144 |    218  |  229   |    216
 Average        |        |       |      |         |        |
  temp. (C.)    |  14.9  |  13.6 | 13.8 |   12.5  |  9.4   |    7.3
 Maximum        |  36.7  |  37.2 | 36.6 |   39.1  | 36.0   |   33.4
 Minimum        |  5.6 | 11.9| 8.1|   9.7 | 19.0 |  25.6
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The italicised temperatures are below zero. Average dates of last frost: Tokyo, April 6; Nagoya,
April 13; Matsumoto, May 17.

POPULATION OF JAPAN, MANCHURIA AND MONGOLIA [XXX]. The population of the Empire according to
the 1920 census was 77,005,510, which included Korea, 17,284,207; Formosa, 3,654,398; Saghalien,
105,765; and South Manchuria (that is, the Kwantung Peninsula), 80,000. In Old Japan (Honshu,
Shikoku and Kyushu with the near islands, and Loo-choos and Bonins) there were 53,602,043,
and in Hokkaido (including Kuriles) 2,359,097.

