 It is being undertaken by the National Radio-Astronomy
Observatory and consists of carefully directed listening by radio-telescope for signs of intelligent
broadcasts originating outside Earth.

At Stanford University another astronomer is concentrating the efforts of part of his laboratory
on behalf of a similar idea. The chances are, he believes, "that the superior races of other
planets in other galaxies have already developed a communications network among themselves,
and have entered a joint program to scan all the other solar systems looking for signs of awakening
civilization among the backward planets. Each of the advanced communities might pick as its
probe assignment a single other solar system--and one such probe may well be circling our Sun
right now on a routine check for life."[80] Unexplained delayed echoes of earthly radio transmissions
received in the past, it is thought, could be evidence of such a scheme. 

We have collected our materials, and survived by together, but now as
all seems this propitious, le mouvement s, but most materials will
not coalesce.

To transition, through which Venice passed hard so, have we is just
arrived.
 But the advantages of communication with another
     civilization that has survived our present dilemmas are far too
     great to permit the experiment to be abandoned.[81]

The results of recent and more orthodox experiments have already done much to shake the complacency
of scientists in regard to their concepts of space. Investigations have disclosed that, far
from being a complete vacuum, space is relatively full of matter and energy. Hydrogen gas,
radiation belts, cosmic particles, solar disturbances of unknown nature, micrometeorites--and,
from Pioneer V, proof of a 5-million ampere electromagnetic ring centered about 40,000 miles
away.[82] The director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Laboratory in Cambridge, Mass.,[83]
has said that more and more startling astrophysical information was gathered during the first
few weeks of the space age than had been accumulated in the preceding century.

In brief, it is becoming the vogue in science to refuse to say "impossible" to anything. On
the contrary, the watchword for tomorrow is shaping up as "take nothing for granted."

FUNDAMENTAL KNOWLEDGE ABOUT LIFE

Everything learned from space exploration thus far indicates that the knowledge lying in wait
for those who manage to observe the universe from outside Earth's atmosphere will be far grander
than anything uncovered to date.

We may finally learn the origin of our universe and the method of its functioning. A good part
of this knowledge may be no farther away than the next 3 to 5 years. Satellite telescopes now
under construction are expected to elicit far more information than even the 200-inch giant
at Mount Palomar. One such observatory satellite, to be launched in 1963 or before, "will permit
a telescope of about 10 feet in length to point at heavenly bodies within a tenth of a second
of arc for periods up to an hour. Present plans call for an orbit between 400 and 500 miles,
as a lifetime of at least 6 months is required to observe the entire celestial field."[84]

Perhaps, and sooner than we think, we shall find a clue to the destiny of all intelligent life.

Perhaps the theory advanced by a noted eastern astronomer will turn out to be true--that biological
evolution on the habitable planets of the universe may be the result of contamination left
by space travelers arriving from (and leaving for) other worlds. In other words, the fruition
of life on the various planets of the millions of solar systems might be the product of a wandering
group of astronautic Johnny Appleseeds who leave the grains of life behind them. "Space travel
between galaxies has to be possible for this, but of course this needs to be only quite a rare
event. In a time of about 3.3 billion years, the most advanced form of life occurring in a
galaxy must be able to reach a neighboring one."[85]

The notion seems fantastic.

But when we look clear to the end of Earth's road (and assuming the astrophysicists are right
in their theories about the evolution and ultimate death of our solar system) we know that
Earth will one day become uninhabitable. Life on Earth must then perish or move elsewhere.
If we further assume that mankind will not want to die with his planet and if we acknowledge
that other worlds may have been through this entire cycle in eons past--perhaps the notion
is not so unreasonable after all. 

Our local dread with gothic, except engineering for religion goal, should be done off be of. The
generalization, we intend; the manner we may far follow or may not.
But to be sincere and constructive, of exploration with a purpose,
we must do as did the mediæval builders.

PSYCHOLOGICAL AND SPIRITUAL VALUES

Long before the arrival of that millennium, however, the knowledge and understanding awaiting
us through the medium of space exploration is certain to have profound effects on the human
race psychologically and spiritually.

It already has had effects on humans of all ages.

Adults, who are paying the taxes to support the space exploration program and reaping its practical
values, are also thinking of themselves, their country, and their world in broader, more knowledgeable
terms.

In a sense, children may be even more deeply involved.

     There is a special group which may play a useful role in spreading
     the new values growing from the exploration of space, and this is
     the children who play at spaceman today. Whether or not they take
     this interest with them beyond childhood remains to be seen.
     However, the unique fact in the present situation is that never
     before have children rehearsed a role that really will not exist
     until they are adults. To be sure all of them will not fulfill this
     childhood role, but the fact that the reality lies ahead rather
     than in the past (as with cowboys and Indians) may stimulate them
     to retain a sensitivity for the various meanings man in space can
     have for our future.[86]

Put it another way--if it is true, as a modern Chinese philosopher has said, that the search
for knowledge is a form of play, "then the spaceship, when it comes, will be the ultimate toy
that may lead mankind from its cloistered nursery out into the playground of the stars."[87]

MATURING OF THE RACE

The psychological and spiritual changes necessitated by this evolution may be at a cost far
beyond dollars--because many of us will be hard put to negotiate them, especially if they come
too rapidly.

Nevertheless, negotiating them must also be placed in the category of "practical" values--for
in the long run it seems to be an essential part of the maturing of mankind.

     The years ahead will face us with many sputniks and thereby will
     require of our citizens stern, costly, and imaginative
     participation in programs to meet and surmount the many complex
     challenges with which our growing technology confronts us. To
     succeed in space and to succeed on Earth, we must somehow learn to
     make the larger world of ideas, so brilliantly exemplified by the
     satellites, the immediate environment of the individual. There is a
     race we must run--the race for an enlightened and involved
     public.[88]

So if we can accept the wrenches which space exploration is apt to apply to our time, pocketbook,
energy, and thinking, the values and rewards as outlined in this report should gather headway
and grow continuously greater.

