TRANSCRIBER'S NOTES

1. Quotes, parentheses and other punctuation are sometimes missing or
   missplaced in the original. These have been made consistent with
   modern convention.

2. Apostrophes, where missing in the original, have been added.

3. Footnotes have been numbered sequentially and moved to the end
   the book.

4. Misspelled words have been corrected and such changes noted at the
   end of the book.

THE PENNYLES PILGRIMAGE,

OR

The Money-lesse perambulation,

of JOHN TAYLOR, Alias the Kings Majesties Water-Poet.

HOW HE TRAVAILED ON FOOT from London to Edenborough in Scotland, not carrying any Money to
or fro, neither Begging, Borrowing, or Asking Meate, drinke or Lodging.

With his Description of his Entertainment in all places of his Journey, and a true Report of
the unmatchable Hunting in the Brea of Marre and Badenoch in Scotland.

With other Observations, some serious and worthy of Memory, and some merry and not hurtfull
to be Remembred.

Lastly that (which is Rare in a Travailer) all is true.

LONDON

Printed by Edw: Allde, at the charges of the Author. 1618

TO THE TRULY NOBLE AND RIGHT HONORABLE LORD GEORGE MARQUIS of Buckingham, Viscount Villiers,
Baron of Whaddon, Justice in Eyre of all his Majesty's Forests, Parks, and Chases beyond Trent,
Master of the Horse to his Majesty, and one of the Gentlemen of his Highness Royal Bed-Chamber,
Knight of the most Noble Order of the Garter, and one of his Majesty's most Honorable Privy
Council of both the Kingdoms of England and Scotland.

Right Honorable, and worthy honoured Lord, as in my Travels, I was entertained, welcomed, and
relieved by many Honourable Lords, Worshipful Knights, Esquires, Gentlemen, and others both
in England and Scotland. So now your Lordship's inclination hath incited, or invited my poor
muse to shelter herself under the shadow of your honorable patronage, not that there is any
worth at all in my sterile invention, but in all humility I acknowledge that it is only your
Lordship's acceptance, that is able to make this nothing, something, and withal engage me ever.

          Your Honors,

              In all observance,

                    JOHN TAYLOR.

[Decorative thought break]

TO ALL MY LOVING ADVENTURERS, BY WHAT NAME OR TITLE SOEVER, MY GENERAL SALUTATION.

Reader, these Travels of mine into Scotland, were not undertaken, neither in imitation, or
emulation of any man, but only devised by myself, on purpose to make trial of my friends both
in this Kingdom of England, and that of Scotland, and because I would be an eye-witness of
divers things which I had heard of that Country; and whereas many shallow-brained Critics,
do lay an aspersion on me, that I was set on by others, or that I did undergo this project,
either in malice, or mockage of Master Benjamin Jonson, I vow by the faith of a Christian,
that their imaginations are all wide, for he is a gentleman, to whom I am so much obliged for
many undeserved courtesies that I have received from him, and from others by his favour, that
I durst never to be so impudent or ungrateful, as either to suffer any man's persuasions, or
mine own instigation, to incite me, to make so bad a requital, for so much goodness formerly
received; so much for that, and now Reader, if you expect

That I should write of cities' situations, Or that of countries I should make relations: Of
brooks, crooks, nooks; of rivers, bournes and rills, Of mountains, fountains, castles, towers
and hills, Of shires, and piers, and memorable things, Of lives and deaths of great commanding
kings, I touch not those, they not belong to me; But if such things as these you long to see,
Lay down my book, and but vouchsafe to read The learned Camden, or laborious Speed.

     And so God speed you and me, whilst I rest

          Yours in all thankfulness:

                JOHN TAYLOR.

[Decorative thought break]

TAYLOR'S PENNILESS PILGRIMAGE.

   List Lordlings, list (if you have lust to list)
   I write not here a tale of had I wist:
   But you shall hear of travels, and relations,
   Descriptions of strange (yet English) fashions.
   And he that not believes what here is writ,
   Let him (as I have done) make proof of it.
   The year of grace, accounted (as I ween)
   One thousand twice three hundred and eighteen,
   And to relate all things in order duly,
   'Twas Tuesday last, the fourteenth day of July,
   Saint Revels day, the almanack will tell ye
   The sign in Virgo was, or near the belly:
   The moon full three days old, the wind full south;
   At these times I began this trick of youth.
   I speak not of the tide, for understand,
   My legs I made my oars, and rowed by land,
   Though in the morning I began to go
   Good fellows trooping, flocked me so,
   That make what haste I could, the sun was set,
   E're from the gates of London I could get.
   At last I took my latest leave thus late,
   At the Bell Inn, that's extra Aldersgate.
   There stood a horse that my provant[1] should carry,
   From that place to the end of my fegary,[2]
   My horse no horse, or mare, but gelded nag,
   That with good understanding bore my bag:
   And of good carriage he himself did show,
   These things are excellent in a beast you know.
   There in my knapsack, (to pay hunger's fees)
   I had good bacon, biscuit, neat's-tongue, cheese
   With roses, barberries, of each conserves,
   And mithridate, that vigorous health perserves:
   And I entreat you take these words for no-lies,
   I had good Aqua vitæ, Rosa so-lies:
   With sweet Ambrosia, (the gods' own drink)
   Most excellent gear for mortals, as I think,
   Besides, I had both vinegar and oil,
   That could a daring saucy stomach foil.
   This foresaid Tuesday night 'twixt eight and nine,
   Well rigged and ballasted, both with beer and wine,
   I stumbling forward, thus my jaunt begun,
   And went that night as far as Islington.
   There did I find (I dare affirm it bold)
   A Maidenhead of twenty-five years old,
   But surely it was painted, like a whore,
   And for a sign, or wonder, hanged at door,
   Which shows a Maidenhead, that's kept so long,
   May be hanged up, and yet sustain no wrong.
   There did my loving friendly host begin
   To entertain me freely to his inn:
   And there my friends, and good associates,
   Each one to mirth himself accommodates.
   At Well-head both for welcome, and for cheer,
   Having a good New ton, of good stale beer:
   There did we Trundle[3] down health, after health,
   (Which oftentimes impairs both health and wealth.)
   Till everyone had filled his mortal trunk,
   And only No-body[3] was three parts drunk.
   The morrow next, Wednesday Saint Swithin's day,
   From ancient Islington I took my way.
   At Holywell I was enforced carouse,
   Ale high, and mighty, at the Blindman's House.
   But there's a help to make amends for all,
   That though the ale be great, the pots be small.
   At Highgate Hill to a strange house I went,
   And saw the people were to eating bent,
   In either borrowed, craved, asked, begged, or bought,
   But most laborious with my teeth I wrought.
   I did not this, 'cause meat or drink was scant,
   But I did practise thus before my want;
   Like to a Tilter that would win the prize,
   Before the day he'll often exercise.
   So I began to put in use, at first
   These principles 'gainst hunger, 'gainst thirst.
   Close to the Gate,[4] there dwelt a worthy man,
   That well could take his whiff, and quaff his can,
   Right Robin Good-fellow, but humours evil,
   Do call him Robin Pluto, or the devil.
   But finding him a devil, freely hearted,
   With friendly farewells I took leave and parted,
   And as alongst I did my journey take,
   I drank at Broom's well, for pure fashion's sake,
   Two miles I travelled then without a bait,
   The Saracen's Head at Whetstone entering straight,
   I found an host, that might lead an host of men,
   Exceeding fat, yet named Lean, and Fen.[5]
   And though we make small reckoning of him here,
   He's known to be a very great man there.
   There I took leave of all my company,
   Bade all farewell, yet spake to No-body.
   Good reader think not strange, what I compile,
   For No-body was with me all this while.
   And No-body did drink, and, wink, and scink,
   And on occasion freely spent his chink.
   If anyone desire to know the man,
   Walk, stumble, Trundle, but in Barbican.
   There's as good beer and ale as ever twang'd,
   And in that street kind No-body[6] is hanged.
   But leaving him unto his matchless fame,
   I to St. Albans in the evening came,
   Where Master Taylor, at the Saracen's Head,
   Unasked (unpaid for) me both lodged and fed.
   The tapsters, hostlers, chamberlains, and all,
   Saved me a labour, that I need not call,
   The jugs were filled and filled, the cups went round,
   And in a word great kindness there I found,
   For which both to my cousin, and his men,
   I'll still be thankful in word, deed, and pen.
   Till Thursday morning there I made my stay,
   And then I went plain Dunstable highway.
   My very heart with drought methought did shrink,
   I went twelve miles, and no one bade me drink.
   Which made me call to mind, that instant time,
   That drunkenness was a most sinful crime.
   When Puddle-hill I footed down, and past
   A mile from thence, I found a hedge at last.
   There stroke we sail, our bacon, cheese, and bread,
   We drew like fiddlers, and like farmers fed.
   And whilst two hours we there did take our ease,
   My nag made shift to mump green pulse[7] and peas.
   Thus we our hungry stomachs did supply,
   And drank the water of a brook hard by.
   Away toward Hockley in the Hole, we make,
   When straight a horseman did me overtake,
   Who knew me, and would fain have given me coin,
   I said, my bonds did me from coin enjoin,
   I thanked and prayed him to put up his chink,
   And willingly I wished it drowned in drink.
   Away rode he, but like an honest man,
   I found at Hockley standing at the Swan,
   A formal tapster, with a jug and glass,
   Who did arrest me: I most willing was
   To try the action, and straight put in bail,
   My fees were paid before, with sixpence ale,
   To quit this kindness, I most willing am,
   The man that paid for all, his name is Dam,
   At the Green Dragon, against Grays-Inn gate,
   He lives in good repute, and honest state.
   I forward went in this my roving race,
   To Stony Stratford I toward night did pace,
   My mind was fixed through the town to pass,
   To find some lodging in the hay or grass,
   But at the Queen's Arms, from the window there,
   A comfortable voice I chanced to hear,
   Call Taylor, Taylor, and be hanged come hither,
   I looked for small entreaty and went thither,
   There were some friends, which I was glad to see,
   Who knew my journey; lodged, and boarded me.
   On Friday morn, as I would take my way,
   My friendly host entreated me to stay,
   Because it rained, he told me I should have
   Meat, drink, and horse-meat and not pay or crave.
   I thanked him, and for his love remain his debtor,
   But if I live, I will requite him better.
   (From Stony Stratford) the way hard with stones,
   Did founder me, and vex me to the bones.
   In blustering weather, both for wind and rain,
   Through Towcester I trotted with much pain,
   Two miles from thence, we sat us down and dined,
   Well bulwarked by a hedge, from rain and wind.
   We having fed, away incontinent,
   With weary pace toward Daventry we went.
   Four miles short of it, one o'ertook me there,
   And told me he would leave a jug of beer,
   At Daventry at the Horse-shoe for my use.
   I thought it no good manners to refuse,
   But thanked him, for his kind unasked gift,
   Whilst I was lame as scarce a leg could lift,
   Came limping after to that stony town,
   Whose hard streets made me almost halt right down.
   There had my friend performed the words he said,
   And at the door a jug of liquor staid,
   The folks were all informed, before I came,
   How, and wherefore my journey I did frame,
   Which caused mine hostess from her door come out,
   (Having a great wart rampant on her snout.)
   The tapsters, hostlers, one another call,
   The chamberlains with admiration all,
   Were filled with wonder, more than wonderful,
   As if some monster sent from the Mogul,
   Some elephant from Africa, I had been,
   Or some strange beast from the Amazonian Queen.
   As buzzards, widgeons, woodcocks, and such fowl,
   Do gaze and wonder at the broad-faced owl,
   So did these brainless asses, all amazed,
   With admirable Nonsense talked and gazed,
   They knew my state (although not told by me)
   That I could scarcely go, they all could see,
   They drank of my beer, that to me was given,
   But gave me not a drop to make all even,
   And that which in my mind was most amiss,
   My hostess she stood by and saw all this,
   Had she but said, come near the house my friend,
   For this day here shall be your journey's end.
   Then had she done the thing which [she] did not,
   And I in kinder words had paid the shot.
   I do entreat my friends, (as I have some)
   If they to Daventry do chance to come,
   That they will baulk that inn; or if by chance,
   Or accident into that house they glance,
   Kind gentlemen, as they by you reap profit,
   My hostess care of me, pray tell her of it,[8]
   Yet do not neither; lodge there when you will,
   You for your money shall be welcome still.
   From thence that night, although my bones were sore,
   I made a shift to hobble seven miles more:
   The way to Dunchurch, foul with dirt and mire,
   Able, I think, both man and horse to tire.
   On Dunsmoor Heath, a hedge doth there enclose
   Grounds, on the right hand, there I did repose.
   Wit's whetstone, Want, there made us quickly learn,
   With knives to cut down rushes, and green fern,
   Of which we made a field-bed in the field,
   Which sleep, and rest, and much content did yield.
   There with my mother earth, I thought it fit
   To lodge, and yet no incest did commit:
   My bed was curtained with good wholesome airs,
   And being weary, I went up no stairs:
   The sky my canopy, bright Phoebe shined
   Sweet bawling Zephyrus breathed gentle wind,
   In heaven's star-chamber I did lodge that night,
   Ten thousand stars, me to my bed did light;
   There barricadoed with a bank lay we
   Below the lofty branches of a tree,
   There my bed-fellows and companions were,
   My man, my horse, a bull, four cows, two steer:
   But yet for all this most confused rout,
   We had no bed-staves, yet we fell not out.
   Thus nature, like an ancient free upholster,
   Did furnish us with bedstead, bed, and bolster;
   And the kind skies, (for which high heaven be thanked,)
   Allowed us a large covering and a blanket;
   Auroras face 'gan light our lodging dark,
   We arose and mounted, with the mounting lark,
   Through plashes, puddles, thick, thin, wet and dry,
   I travelled to the city Coventry.
   There Master Doctor Holland[9] caused me stay
   The day of Saturn and the Sabbath day.