Many influences thus conspired to make Mr. Yeats find his inspiration in Ireland, overcoming,
for the time, the denationalizing influences that the art of the centre must always exert.
Not only were the national legends and folk-lore constantly with him in these years, but the
interest in magic and all things that are hidden. He was one of the Hermetic Society, of which
Mr. George W. Russell was the high priest, as early as 1886, but this interest, which has dominated
so often in his later poetry, is not to the forefront in "The Wanderings of Oisin" of 1889.
The material of the title poem of this volume Mr. Yeats found in the libraries. It recounts
the Fenian poet's three hundred years of "dalliance with a demon thing" oversea in three wondrous
lands, where were severally pleasure and fighting and forgetfulness, and in each of which Oisin
spent a century. It has a half-dramatic framework of question and answer between St. Patrick,
who appears as upbraider, and the poet, who laments joys gone and the Christian present of
Ireland and his own feeble age. Although it is a story Mr. Yeats is telling, the beauties of
the poems are lyrical beauties. In exuberance and richness of color it is Mr. Yeats's most
typically Irish poem based on legend, and nowhere do his lines go with more lilt, or fall oftener
into inevitability of phrase, or more fully diffuse a glamour of otherworldliness. "The Wanderings
of Oisin" revealed poetry as unmistakably new to his day as was Poe's to the earliest Victorian
days. Beside the title poem another from legend had this new quality, "The Madness of King
Goll," with its refrain that will not out of memory, "They will not hush, the leaves a-flutter
round me, the beech leaves old." "Down by the Salley Gardens" and "The Meditation of the Old
Fisherman" bear witness to talks before turf fires, or in herring boats off Knocknarea, and
other developments of folk-song or tale have the place-names of his home county of Sligo; but
this distinctive quality is theirs in less measure, and few others in the little volume have
it at all.

In the years just before "The Wanderings of Oisin," Mr. Yeats had been eager to unite the young
writers of Ireland in a movement to give the country a national literature in English. This
project developed side by side with Dr. Hyde's to give Ireland its own language again and a
modern literature in it. Neither leader was the first to advance either idea, but each was
the first to establish the movement in which he was most interested; Mr. Yeats's "Wanderings
of Oisin" (1889) is the starting-point of the Celtic Renaissance, and Dr. Hyde's "Leabhar Sgeuluigheachta"
(1889), the starting-point of the Gaelic League, though this was not organized until 1893.
From that day to this these two men and Mr. George W. Russell ("A.E.") have been the great
forces in the literature of the Renaissance. Mr. Yeats was busy in those early days with editing
fairy and folk-tales and short stories from the Irish novelists, and in reading these it was
but natural that he should be led to write stories. First came "John Sherman" and "Dhoya" in
1891, the one a condensed novel with the slightest of plots about a slow-pulsed young man's
troubles with love and laziness in Sligo and London, and the other a sketch of Irish faery
in old time. Some of the sketches of "The Celtic Twilight" (1893) approach the tale, but such
narrations are not told for their own sake, but as illustrations of fairy-lore, or they have
too little body to win for themselves the title of tale. In "The Secret Rose" (1897) there
are true tales, some out of Ireland's legendary past, some out of her fairy present, and, akin
to both, the Hanrahan series. These last Mr. Yeats so rewrote in 1904 as to be "nearer to the
mind of the country places where Hanrahan and his like wandered and are remembered." As they
stand now they are his best prose, rid almost entirely of preciousness, and simple and full
of mystery as the countryside they reflect. In "The Secret Rose" are two "alchemical" tales
and in "The Tables of the Law" (1904), two others of like subject. To me, for all the qualities
they share with poetry of his of similar inspiration, they do not seem to be mastered by him.
Alone among his writings they are incomplete.

Mr. Yeats was unable until the last few years to give himself up to the writing nearest his
heart, drama. He continued to edit Irish literature, to write on literature and fairy-lore
for the magazines. The articles about fairies he has published, and a great mass of belief
collected but as yet unprinted, he will gather some day into a great book. Known now in the
Irish countryside as a man with a power to exorcise spirits, he will then no doubt attain a
reputation that will put him well above that of the Irish-American archbishop who was his only
rival in that practice in the belief of many Irish peasants. Other of his magazine writing
Mr. Yeats has gathered into "The Celtic Twilight" and more of it into the later edition (1900)
of this book. Still other of these articles are to be found in "Ideas of Good and Evil" (1903),
some of them stating his philosophy, never too definitely formulated. These two collections
are very interesting in themselves, but both, like his "Discoveries" (1907), are more interesting
as commentary on his powers. Mr. Yeats has used many notes to explain obscure allusions in
his poems, though the most obscure he, perhaps with premeditation, fails to explain. Yet the
reader unacquainted with his use of symbols will find much interpretation in these essays,
especially those in "Ideas of Good and Evil."

Up to 1899, when Mr. Yeats's serious efforts to build up an Irish national drama began with
"The Irish Literary Theatre," he devoted his happiest moments to lyric poetry, though the play
of "The Countess Cathleen" made half of his second volume of verse, and the third was wholly
given to the little play, "The Land of Heart's Desire." Since 1899, in which year "The Wind
among the Reeds" appeared, Mr. Yeats has published, of other than dramatic verse, only the
little volume of "In the Seven Woods," the little series on Flamel, and a few snatches, in
all about a thousand lines. Some of this verse Mr. Yeats wrote for the psaltery, and in 1902
he was determined to write all his shorter poems for recitation to this instrument and "all
his longer poems for the stage."

Mr. Yeats was thirty-four when he practically gave up lyrical poetry for dramatic poetry. From
the beginning he had written plays, but they were lyrical plays, dramatic only in form, and
they were, as soon as he had mastered the technique of verse, great lyrical poems. In the plays
he has written since he has striven at that hardest of literary tasks, to make true dramatic
speech high poetry, he has written nothing more beautiful than "The Countess Cathleen" and
"The Land of Heart's Desire." He has rewritten and rewritten these later plays, and in almost
every rewriting made them more dramatic, but sometimes the later versions have lost as poetry,
not in the mere decorative features and "lyrical interbreathings," but in the accent of the
play and in the sheer poetical qualities. To me it seems a pity, inevitable though it be, that
the poet who has struck the most distinctly new note of all the English poets since Swinburne
should, at thirty-four, have changed from an art he knew to an art he did not know. That is
a ripe age for a poet to begin to learn to write in a form barely essayed before. Unlike so
many of the English poets, who as public school boys were bred up to write verse, Mr. Yeats
had to teach himself to write verse. Overcoming triumphantly this handicap, though losing by
it years usually fullest of impulse to write, Mr. Yeats greatly attained, and for the ten years
from 1889 to 1899 devoted himself to the writing of lyrics. For the past thirteen years he
has been busiest with dramas, in none of which has he more than approximated to a dramatic
quality that is as great as the quality of his lyrics. He has owned himself one reason of such
shortcoming, in the notes to "Deirdre."[2] "The principal difficulty with the form of dramatic
literature I have adopted is that, unlike the loose Elizabethan form, it continually forces
one by its rigour of logic away from one's capacities, experiences, and desires, until, if
one have not patience to wait for the mood, or to rewrite again and again till it comes, there
is rhetoric and logic and dry circumstance where there should be life."

It may be that Mr. Yeats will one day overcome the difficulties that he alludes to here, but
he is now forty-seven, and I, for one, doubt if, at his age, he can overcome them. As they
are, his plays are beautiful in ideas and words, and striking in a lyric and decorative way,
if not all of them in a dramatic way, though in some he has in vain sacrificed poetry to attain
true dramatic speech attaining instead only "rhetoric and logic and dry circumstance." One
values the plays of Mr. Yeats highest when one thinks of them as a new kind of drama, as a
redevelopment of epic and lyric poetry into drama, an epic and lyric poetry illustrated by
tableaux against backgrounds out of faery. Let us not forget that there is one effect which
is of "The Tempest," and another effect which is of "Lear," and that it is after all something
of a convention to call the latter a success of drama and the former a success of something
other than drama. Yet it is just as necessary to remember that drama does mean a definite sort
of literature, and the success of a new sort of drama, whether it be a "static" drama, as M.
Maeterlinck has called his early drama, or whether it be the kind of drama that Mr. Yeats has
created, is the success of something other than what we conventionally term drama. It is curious
that no matter how great may be the success of an author in a form he has invented, he will
almost invariably attempt also the accepted form from which he has diverged. Impelled by a
desire to see his wife in a drama of his own but of the old dramatic sort, M. Maeterlinck made
"Monna Vanna" in accord with the usual rules of the theatre, but to find it fall far short
of the strange new beauty of his earlier plays. As yet Mr. Yeats has not compromised with the
current taste in drama, but it may be that a desire to see some such actress as Mrs. Patrick
Campbell in a part of his may lead to such compromise, as the thought of her acting his Deirdre
inspired him to rewrite that part for Mrs. Campbell.

Mr. Yeats has not yet passed beyond the danger of falling between two stools. If it prove that
he has really attained in a drama in which the verse is true dramatic speech and not lyric
ecstasy or decoration, the success of such drama will be worth the sacrifice of the lyric poetry
that he has not written because of the absorption of all of his energy in his dramatic writing.
If it prove he has not so attained, we shall have no adequate compensation for the lost lyrics
that he is now too old to write. I say no "adequate compensation," for compensation there is
in the lyrical passages that no play of his is without, lyrical passages that arrest us as
do his poems of the nineties; but, after all, these are but passages, not poems with unity
and finality of form.

Another question altogether, a question outside of the question of the value as art of the
writing of Mr. Yeats which is what I am considering, is the question as to whether there would
have been a dramatic movement at all comparable to what has been, if Mr. Yeats had not devoted
so large a portion of his time to drama. I believe there would have been a dramatic movement,
but I am sure, from what I know of the other dramatic organizations in Dublin, that they would
not have amounted to much unless some other great writer as loyal to art as Mr. Yeats had played
for them the beneficent tyrant. And other such great writers, as loyal to art, and as devoted
to drama, are far to seek in Ireland as in other countries. It is not in Mr. Russell's nature
so to act; it is not in Dr. Hyde's plan of life to foster in others other than propagandist
literature; it is more than likely that had Mr. Martyn attempted it it had come to the end
to which he has come as playwright. Without Mr. Yeats as moving power, Synge had not been,
without Mr. Yeats to interest her in the movement, Lady Gregory had not written her farces
and folk-histories; and without the Abbey Theatre's plays as standard, the younger playwrights
of Cork and Belfast would have written plays very other than those they have written.

No wonder Mr. Yeats wants to see his dreams take on bodily reality upon the stage, and to hear
beautifully spoken the words in which he has caught them. There can be no greater pleasures
than these to a writer when he is past the imaginative intensity of youth. In youth his imaginings
are so real to him he needs no objective embodiment to see them, and the roll and sing of their
lines are always sounding to his inner ear, but as he passes "out of a red flare of dreams,"
such as is youth's, "into a common light of common hours" in middle age, his imaginative life
grows less intense and needs the satisfaction of seeing itself concretely represented.

Mr. Yeats leaves out of his collected poems the plays of his boyhood, "The Island of Statues"
(1885) and "Mosada" (1886). They were not of Ireland, but the Arcady of the one and the mediæval
Spain of the other he could easily have paralleled in Irish legend, where anything wonderful
and tragic is possible. Nor is "The Countess Cathleen" (1892-99), in its presentation of the
drama of a woman that sells her soul that the souls of her tenantry may be saved, essentially
Irish. It is curious that among English poets of Mr. Yeats's generation it should be Mr. Kipling
that has happened upon the same legend, which he adapts to his ends in "The Sacrifice of Er-Heb."
The background of "The Countess Cathleen" in the earlier versions was not more essentially
Irish than the story. "The great castle in malevolent woods" and the country about it is very
like the part of fairyland that M. Maeterlinck refound by following the charts of early discoverers
in Arthurian legend. In its later versions "The Countess Cathleen" is more Irish and perhaps
more dramatic, though its greatnesses, after that of atmosphere, the great lines we may no
more forget than those about "the angel Israfel" There were those lines of Maire's denouncement
of the two demons and her prophecy to them:--

  "You shall at last dry like dry leaves, and hang
  Nailed like dead vermin to the doors of God";

and those wonderful lines of Cathleen dying:--

  "Bend down your faces, Oona and Aleel:
  I gaze upon them as the swallow gazes
  Upon the nest under the eave, before
  He wander the loud waters";

and those last lines of all, great as only the greatest lines are great,--

  "The years like great black oxen tread the world,
  And God the herdsman goads them on behind,
  And I am broken by their passing feet."

It was about this time, too, that Mr. Yeats wrote that most startling of all his lines,--

  "And God stands winding his lonely horn",

and "The Lake Isle of Innisfree," that so charmed Stevenson that he had to write its author,
and say it cast over him a spell like that of his first reading of the "Poems and Ballads"
of Swinburne and the "Love in the Valley" of Meredith.

There is no greater lyric poetry anywhere in the writing of Mr. Yeats than in "The Land of
Heart's Desire" (1894), that little folk-play whose constant boding and final tragedy cannot
overcome, either while it is playing or as you remember it, the sing and lilt that are in the
lines. It tells of the luring away by a fairy child of the soul of a newly married bride on
May-Eve, and of her death when her soul has passed to the "Land of Heart's Desire"--

  "Where nobody gets old and crafty and wise,
  Where nobody gets old and godly and grave,
  Where nobody gets old and bitter of tongue,
  And where kind tongues bring no captivity."

It is a story out of folk-lore, and so far back in time, and so far away from the life that
we know is it, that all that happens seems not only possible but inevitable.

"The Land of Heart's Desire" was the first play of Mr. Yeats to be put on the stage, being
presented at the Avenue Theatre in London in 1894; and it was also the first play of Mr. Yeats
to be put on in America, being presented with Miss Mabel Taliaferro in the fairy's rôle as
the curtain-raiser to Mrs. Le Moyne's production of "In a Balcony," in the spring of 1901.
Fragile as is its charm, it crossed the footlights and made itself felt as a new beauty of
the theatre. It was the lyrical interbreathings that appealed most to me, but the strife of
priest and fairy for Maire Bruin's soul was very real drama. It was the fairy's song, however,
that haunted me after I left the theatre, as it could not but be. It haunts me still, coming
into my mind whenever I think of Mr. Yeats, as inevitably as the last lines of "The Countess
Cathleen," or as "The Lake Isle of Innisfree," or "The Valley of the Black Pig," or "The Rose
of the World," or the ecstasies of Forgael and Dectora, or the song in "Deirdre." "The lonely
of heart is withered away" is its burden, a burden that will not out of mind.

"The Land of Heart's Desire" has probably been most often played, counting American performances
as well as performances in Ireland and England, being played as frequently by amateurs as by
professionals in this country, but the prose play "Cathleen ni Houlihan," because of its national
theme, has had more playings in Ireland. Its effect upon the stage is very different from its
effect in the study. Read, it seems allegory too obvious to impress. The old woman, Cathleen
ni Houlihan, with "too many strangers in the house" and with her "four beautiful green fields"
taken from her, is so patently Ireland possessed by England, all four provinces, that one fails
to feel the deep humanity of the sacrifices of Michael Gillane for her, his country, even though
that sacrifice be on his wedding eve. Seen and listened to, "Cathleen ni Houlihan" brings tears
to the eyes and chokes the throat with sobs, so intimately physical is the appeal of its pathos.
He is, indeed, dull of understanding or hard of heart who can witness a performance of this
play and not feel that something noble has come his way. It seizes hold of the Irishmen of
the patriotic societies as does "The Wearing of the Green," and even the outlander, little
sympathetic to the cause of Ireland and holding patriotism a provincial thing, is moved in
some strange way he does not understand. Performance brings out its homeliness, its touches
of humor, its wistfulness, its nobility. It is with this thought of its nobility that every
thought of "Cathleen ni Houlihan" ends, that is every thought of it on the stage. Off the stage
it is, except to him to whom the cause is all, something that falls short of nobility, to many
little more than eloquent allegory. In the autumn of 1904 Miss Margaret Wycherly played "The
Land of Heart's Desire" and "Cathleen ni Houlihan" a few times in America, and "The Countess
Cathleen"; and "The Hour-Glass" (1903) and "A Pot of Broth" (1902), both plays in prose. "The
Hour-Glass," a morality, was written after "Everyman" had won Mr. Yeats, and "A Pot of Broth"
was written, perhaps, to prove that its author could do farce.

"The Hour-Glass" is based on a story that Mr. Yeats found in Lady Wilde's "Ancient Legends
of Ireland" (1887), the story of a wise man who is saved from eternal damnation by the faith
of a child. Mr. Yeats leaves the wise man the great scholar that he was in the old tale, a
scholar whose teaching had taken away the faith of a countryside, but he changes the child
who saved the scholar into Teig the Fool, and infuses into the record of the frantic hour,
in which the wise man knows his life ebbing away as the sand falls, a spirit that is as reverent
as the spirit of the old religious drama.

"A Pot of Broth" is a variant of a widely spread folk-tale in which a beggarman tricks a provident
housewife out of a meal. He pretends a stone that he has, and which he gives her after his
meal, makes good broth, but it is her chicken that has made the broth. It is a trifle, amusing
enough, but remarkable chiefly for its difference from other work of Mr. Yeats. There is little
doubt, I take it, in the mind of any one that it is not chiefly Lady Gregory's, as it surely
is in its wording, and in its intimacy with the details of cottage life.

Prose also is "Diarmid and Grania," written in collaboration with Mr. George Moore and played
at the last year's performance (1901) of "The Irish Literary Theatre." As this play as performed
was in tone more like the writings of Mr. Moore than of Mr. Yeats, I have considered it among
his plays rather than among the plays of Mr. Yeats.

His other prose play, "Where there is Nothing" (1903), is a statement of revolt against "the
despotism of fact" that is perhaps as characteristic of the artist as of the Celt. The world
would say that its hero, Paul Ruttledge, was mad, but no one that reads can deny him a large
share of sympathy. This play was produced by the Stage Society in London in 1904. Lady Gregory
having had a share in its creation, Mr. Yeats has since relinquished the theme to her; and
now rewritten by her alone as "The Unicorn from the Stars," it would hardly be recognized as
the same play.

His Paul Ruttledge, gentleman, becomes her Martin Hearne, coach-builder. Both are alike at
the outset of their frenzy, in that they would be destroyers of Church and Law, both use tinkers
as their agents of destruction, and both die despised of men. Both are "plunged in trance,"
but their trances differ. That of Lady Gregory's hero is cataleptic and directly productive
of his revolt, from a revelation, as he thinks it is, that comes to him while he is "away."
Paul Ruttledge, on the other hand, deliberately gives up his conventional life, and that as
largely because of boredom as because of belief in its wrongness. One cannot, as one reads
"Where there is Nothing," fail to see in its hero much of Mr. Yeats himself. He is not the
professional agitator, literary or social, as was Oscar Wilde and as is Mr. Shaw, but he here
delights in turning things topsy-turvy, just as they do, in a fashion that has been distinctive
of the Irishman for many generations. Mr. Yeats is himself, often, like his hero, "plunged
in trance," if one may call trance his "possessed dream," such as that in which "Cap and Bells"
or "Cathleen ni Houlihan" came to him. The lyric came to him, he says, as a "vision," and so,
too, the play. It is in the dedication to volumes I and II of "Plays for an Irish Theatre,"
volumes containing "Where there is Nothing," "The Hour-Glass," "Cathleen ni Houlihan," and
"A Pot of Broth," that he tells us of the latter vision, and of the beginnings of that collaboration
with Lady Gregory that taught her her art, and so profoundly influenced his. So informing is
it that I quote it in full.

     MY DEAR LADY GREGORY:--

     I dedicate to you two volumes of plays that are in part your own.

     When I was a boy I used to wander about at Rosses Point and
     Ballisodare listening to old songs and stories. I wrote down what I
     heard and made poems out of the stories or put them into the little
     chapters of the first edition of the "Celtic Twilight," and that is
     how I began to write in the Irish way.

     Then I went to London to make my living, and though I spent a part
     of every year in Ireland and tried to keep the old life in my
     memory by reading every country tale I could find in books or old
     newspapers, I began to forget the true countenance of country life.
     The old tales were still alive for me, indeed, but with a new,
     strange, half-unreal life, as if in a wizard's glass until at last,
     when I had finished "The Secret Rose," and was halfway through "The
     Wind among the Reeds," a wise woman in her trance told me that my
     inspiration was from the moon and that I should always live close
     to water, for my work was getting too full of those little jewelled
     thoughts that come from the sun and have no nation. I have no need
     to turn to my books of astrology to know that the common people are
     under the moon, or to Porphyry to remember the image-making power
     of the waters. Nor did I doubt the entire truth of what she said to
     me, for my head was full of fables that I had no longer the
     knowledge and emotion to write. Then you brought me with you to see
     your friends in the cottages, and to talk to old wise men on Slieve
     Echtge, and we gathered together, or you gathered for me, a great
     number of stories and traditional beliefs. You taught me to
     understand again, and much more perfectly than before, the true
     countenance of country life.

     One night I had a dream, almost as distinct as a vision, of a
     cottage where there was well-being and firelight and talk of a
     marriage, and into the midst of that cottage there came an old
     woman in a cloak. She was Ireland herself, that Cathleen ni
     Houlihan for whom so many songs have been sung and about whom so
     many stories have been told and for whose sake so many have gone to
     their death. I thought if I could write this out as a little play I
     could make others see my dream as I had seen it but I could not get
     down out of that high window of dramatic verse, and in spite of all
     you had done for me I had not the country speech. One has to live
     among the people, like you, of whom an old man said in my hearing,
     "She has been a serving-maid among us," before one can think the
     thoughts of the people and speak with their tongue. We turned my
     dream into the little play, "Cathleen ni Houlihan," and when we
     gave it to the little theatre in Dublin and found that the
     working-people liked it, you helped me to put my other dramatic
     fables into speech. Some of these have already been acted, but some
     may not be acted for a long time; but all seem to me, though they
     were but part of a summer's work, to have more of that countenance
     of country life than anything I have done since I was a boy.

I should like also to quote in full Mr. Yeats's account of how "Where there is Nothing" passed
into "The Unicorn from the Stars," as that account throws much light on the methods of collaboration
that have added so greatly to the success of the dramatic movement, and that are especially
valuable to beginners, whose plays, without reshaping in collaboration, might never win their
way to the boards. But I have not the space for it all, and I must content myself with that
portion of it in which Mr. Yeats confesses that belief of his in the rapprochement of scholar
and tinker that one notes so often in Irish life. Speaking of Lady Gregory's rewriting of "Where
there is Nothing" into "The Unicorn from the Stars," he says:--

     Her greatest difficulty was that I had given her for chief
     character a man so plunged in trance that he could not be otherwise
     than all but still and silent, though perhaps with the stillness
     and the silence of a lamp; and the movement of the play as a whole,
     if we were to listen to hear him, had to be without hurry or
     violence. The strange characters, her handiwork, on whom he sheds
     his light, delight me. She has enabled me to carry out an old
     thought for which my own knowledge is insufficient and to commingle
     the ancient phantasies of poetry with the rough, vivid,
     ever-contemporaneous tumult of the roadside; to create for a moment
     a form that otherwise I could but dream of, though I do that
     always, an art that prophesies though with worn and failing voice
     of the day when Quixote and Sancho Panza long estranged may once
     again go out gaily into the bleak air. Ever since I began to write
     I have awaited with impatience a linking, all Europe over, of the
     hereditary knowledge of the countryside, now becoming known to us
     through the work of wanderers and men of learning, with our old
     lyricism so full of ancient frenzies and hereditary wisdom, a
     yoking of antiquities, a marriage of Heaven and Hell.

Interesting, however, as these plays in prose are, and significant of their author's desire
to do work in a medium that was perhaps more immediately acceptable to the audience of the
National Dramatic Society in its then culture, there is no doubt at all that the plays in verse
are nearer his heart. They are himself, and in all of the prose plays there is a good deal
of Lady Gregory. All this time that he was collaborating in these prose plays he was still
dreaming over "The Shadowy Waters," retouching it, rearranging it, until it became in detail
a very different play from the play that was published under that name in 1900. Its hero and
heroine, Forgael and Dectora, are much as they were then, their fateful meeting in misty northern
seas remains the central incident, and the climax is still their choice to be left alone in
the Viking ship at the world's end; but more than half the lines are changed. "The Shadowy
Waters" was staged in 1904, and with telling weirdness, but like many another author's best-loved
and most elaborated work, it has not made the appeal of plays less favorite to him. Mr. Yeats
has written that he has been brooding over "The Shadowy Waters" ever since he was a boy, and
he told me, when I asked him once which writing of his he cared most for, "That I was last
working at, and then 'The Shadowy Waters.'" It is too much to say that it expresses the dream
of his life, but it is not too much to say that a dream that has haunted all his life is told
here, or half told, for dream such as this eludes complete expression. "The Shadowy Waters"
is a poem so long considered, so often returned to, so loved and elaborated and worked over,
so often dreamed and redreamed, that one would expect to find in it its author's credo, if
its author is one who could hold to one confession of faith. Few authors can, few authors should,
and Mr. Yeats is not one of them that can or should. He wrote once that he would be accounted

  "True brother of that company
  That sang to lighten Ireland's wrong,
  Ballad and story, rann and song,"--

and Nationalist though he still is he has grown more and more preoccupied with art. There was
a time when a love of the occult threatened his art, but from that the theatre has saved him,
if it has taken him from the writing lyrics, in which his powers are at their highest. To old
Irish legend, Mr. Yeats has, however, been true from the start, and from the start, too, there
has never been a time the two he has not been preoccupied with dream. And if the two loves
to which he has been constant cannot be said with exactitude to be in the story of Forgael
and Dectora, because that story is not a reshaping of any one legend out of old Irish legend,
it is of the very spirit of the journeys oversea in which that legend abounds, and it is steeped
in dream. It would be here, then, that one would look for an expression as like a credo as
is possible to Mr. Yeats, and here we do find it on the lips of Forgael, his hero, who, can
we doubt? speaks also for the poet himself:--

                        "All would be well
  Could we but give us wholly to the dreams,
  And get into their world that to the sense
  Is shadow, and not linger wretchedly
  Among substantial things; for it is dreams
  That lift us to the flowing changing world
  That the heart longs for. What is love itself,
  Even though it be the lightest of light love,
  But dreams that hurry from beyond the world,
  To make low laughter more than meat and drink,
  Though it but set us sighing?"

"On Baile's Strand" (1903) follows very closely the story of Cuchulain's slaying of his own
son as retold Lady Gregory in her "Cuchulain of Muirthemne" (1902). Like Rustum he does not
know who is the youth he is fighting until he has given him his death wound. Its high tragedy
rends the more by the ironic setting of Blind Man and Fool, two wastrels, one of whom might
have prevented the tragedy, but would not because the fight would give him and his fellow a
chance to rob the larders in houses whose owners were watching it. No one can doubt the high
intention of "On Baile's Strand," no one can deny that its story is essentially dramatic, no
one can pass by certain passages without realization that here is great verse, blank verse
that is true dramatic speech. Men remember Cuchulain's description of Aoife as men remember
Maud Gonne.

                     "Ah! Conchubar, had you seen her
  With that high, laughing, turbulent head of hers
  Thrown backward, and the bowstring at her ear,
  Or sitting at the fire with those grave eyes
  Full of good counsel as it were with wine,
  Or when love ran through all the lineaments
  Of her wild body."

One remembers these things, but if one has not seen the play on the stage, he does not bear
with him memories of beauty such as one bears always with him from even the reading of "The
Countess Cathleen" or of "The Land of Heart's Desire." Nor is one moved by "On Baile's Strand"
as one is moved by other tellings of the same world story, as one is moved by the epic telling
of it by Matthew Arnold in "Sohrab and Rustum," or even by such a casual telling of it as is
Mr. Neil Munro's in "Black Murdo." If it were not for "Deirdre," in fact, one would have to
say that the verse plays of Mr. Yeats after "The Shadowy Waters" grow, play by play, less in
poetic beauty, and that their gain in dramatic effectiveness does not compensate for such a loss.

"The King's Threshold" (1904) is as near a play with a purpose as Mr. Yeats has written. It
vindicates the right of the poet in Ireland's Heroic Age to sit at the highest table of the
King, and as it was written and played in 1903, when its author was being accused of caring
more for his art than for his country, it looks very like a defense. Seanchan, the poet, removed
from his high seat at the request of "Bishops, Soldiers, and Makers of the Law," takes his
stand on the King's threshold, with the intention of starving himself to death there, as there
is, as the King says,--

                          "a custom,
  An old and foolish custom, that if a man
  Be wronged, or think that he is wronged and starve
  Upon another's threshold till he die,
  The common people, for all time to come,
  Will raise a heavy cry against that threshold,
  Even though it be the King's."

It was at this time that the clamor against "In the Shadow of the Glen" had stirred up a great
deal of feeling against Mr. Yeats and the other managers of the Irish National Theatre Society.
And Mr. Yeats, it may be, wrote the play not only to symbolize his contention that the poet
is as important to society as is the man of action, but also to assert that poetry cultivated
for its own sake, the sake of art, is as necessary to a nation, to Ireland, as what Ireland
calls patriotism. By the way, he illustrated the fact that that kind of patriotism that assumes
the King can do no wrong,--that is, that the Irish people can do no wrong,--and that whoever
exposes their wrongdoing is no patriot, is a mistaken sort of patriotism.

Late in 1906 his "Deirdre" was successfully produced at the Abbey Theatre, Dublin. It presents
only the last chapter of this, the saddest tale of the three heart-burdening tales that are
known as "The Three Sorrows of Story-Telling," but it presents it so poignantly and with so
keen an emphasis on the quick-passing of all things sweet, that it takes place, for all its
slightness, with the world's greatest tragedies that are tragedies because of the overthrow
therein of "queens ... young and fair." There are few Irish writers whose concern is with things
Irish who have not retold this, the greatest love story of Ireland, but none of them, from
Sir Samuel Ferguson down to our own day, have retold it so nobly as Mr. Yeats, save only Synge,
and his restatement of it, of the whole story from Deirdre's girlhood to her death, has about
it a grandeur and triumphing beauty that make further retellings not to be tolerated.

It is not lines, "purple patches," one remembers from "Deirdre," but the whole play, its every
situation, its setting. That setting so quintessentializes, in the words Mr. Yeats used to
describe it, the romance of the old haunted woods where any adventure is possible, that I must
quote it in full:--

     A Guest-house in a wood. It is a rough house of timber; through the
     doors and some of the windows one can see the great spaces of the
     wood, the sky dimming, night closing in. But a window to the left
     shows the thick leaves of a coppice; the landscape suggests
     silence and loneliness. There is a door to right and left, and
     through the side windows one can see anybody who approaches either
     door, a moment before he enters. In the centre, a part of the house
     is curtained off; the curtains are drawn. There are unlighted
     torches in brackets on the walls There is, at one side, a small
     table with a chessboard and chessmen upon it, and a wine flagon and
     loaf of bread. At the other side of the room there is a brazier
     with a fire; two women, with musical instruments beside them,
     crouch about the brazier: they are comely women of about forty.
     Another woman, who carries a stringed instrument, enters hurriedly;
     she speaks, at first standing in the doorway.

But if one does not carry in memory so many lines of "Deirdre" as one does of the earlier less
dramatic plays, there are passages in plenty that arrest and exalt. One such is those lines
of Fergus that so well describe one phase of the imagination of Mr. Yeats--

                     "wild thought
  Fed on extravagant poetry, and lit
  By such a dazzle of old fabulous tales
  That common things are lost, and all that's strange
  Is true because 't were pity if it were not."

Another such is the song of the musicians, of Queen Edain's tower, "When the Winds are Calling
There"; and another such, the crying of a woman's heart in Deirdre's offer to go with Conchubar
that Naisi may be saved:--

                     "It's better to go with him.
  Why should you die when one can bear it all?
  My life is over; it's better to obey.
  Why should you die? I will not live long, Naisi.
  I'd not have you believe I'd long stay living;
  Oh, no, no, no! You will go far away.

  "You will forget me. Speak, speak, Naisi, speak,
  And say that it is better that I go.
  I will not ask it. Do not speak a word,
  For I will take it all upon myself.
  Conchubar, I will go."

This is true dramatic speech, this has the accent of high tragedy, and weakly human as it is
it does not take away at all from the queenliness of Deirdre. There are other passages that
have such a tendency, however, true though they may be to the life they depict and to human
nature of all time when in such a frenzy of fear and sorrow. Longer even than this heart's
cry, however, I think I shall remember that line so near the opening of the play--

  "She put on womanhood and he lost peace."

Lines greater than that are far to seek in English drama.

"The Green Helmet" (1910), a rewriting in a form of verse alien to the stage of the earlier
prose "Golden Helmet" (1908), is hardly done out of any high intention, and although it is
not wanting in a kind of strange and grotesque fascination, it is in result no higher than
it was in intention. In fact the past five years, years much of whose time has been spent in
forwarding the work of the Abbey Theatre, have not inspired Mr. Yeats to much work of importance.
Mr. Yeats promises us more plays, but one cannot help wishing, if he must do verses other than
lyric, he would put his hand now to a great epic. His "Wanderings of Oisin" is nearest this,
near enough, for all the preponderance of lyric in it, to show that he could do it, were we
without such lines of "large accent" as I have quoted from "The Countess Cathleen" to prove
that beyond doubt. There is no better material for epic as yet unused than Irish legends, but
there is none the old bard developed into epic proportions. There would be here the largest
scope for the shaping power of the poet. Mr. Yeats must, of course, have thought of epic, but
preferred drama as more in harmony with our time. Lionel Johnson said that Mr. Yeats took to
drama because he liked to hear his lines finely spoken, but, surely, if that were his greatest
delight, he could invent some way in which to bring story in verse to listeners. It were surely
a lesser task than that of stimulating Mr. Dolmetsch to make a psaltery to which his lyrics
may be musically spoken.

From the beginning, the verse of Mr. Yeats has had vocal quality, a quality that is unfortunately
often rarer in good poetry than in verse that is good rhetoric. I cannot see that his interest
in the psaltery, that developed after 1900, has brought about any change in the quality of
his verse. There have been constant to it since "The Wanderings of Oisin" all the qualities
that distinguish it to-day,--its eloquence, its symbols that open up unending vistas through
mysteries, its eeriness as of the bewildering light of late sunset over gray-green Irish bog
and lake and mountain, its lonely figures as great in their simplicity as those of Homer, its
plain statement of high passion that breaks free of all that is occult and surprises with its
clarity where so much is dim with dream. First one and then another of these qualities has
most interested him. He has written in explanation of patriotic verse, of folk-verse, of verse
based on the old court romances, of symbolism, of Rosicrucianism, of essences, of speaking
to the psaltery, of dramatic art; and all the time he has practiced poetry, the interest of
the time resulting in now the greater emphasis on one quality in the poetry, and now on another
quality. It would be superfluous to do more than point out most of these qualities, but a word
on his use of symbols may help to a fuller understanding of his poetry. I am very sure that
I read wrong meanings from many of these symbols, as one who has not the password must. They
require definite knowledge of magical tradition, and of the poet's interpretation of Celtic
tradition, for a full understanding. As the years go by, I think their exact meaning will escape
more and more readers until they will have no more significance than Spenser's allegories have
to us. Only to the student deeply read in Elizabethan politics do these mean to-day what must
have been patent to the inner circle at Elizabeth's court. Those symbols of Mr. Yeats that
we may understand intuitively, as we may "The white owl in the belfry sits," other generations
also may understand, but hardly those that have meanings known only to a coterie. But we may
read Spenser with enjoyment even if all the inner allegories are missed, and so, too, many
read Mr. Yeats to-day, neglectful of the images of a formal symbolism.

I do not know that I get more enjoyment from the poetry of the verses entitled "The Valley
of the Black Pig" because Mr. Yeats's note tells us that it is the scene of Ireland's Götterdämmerung,
though it is an unquestionable gratification to the puzzle interest I have with my kind, and
I would at times be more comfortable were I sure that the "Master of the Still Stars and of
the Flaming Door" was he who keeps the gates of the Other World, the real world we shall enter
when death sets us free of that dream men call life. Mr. Yeats is not so kind to the men "in
the highway" as the old Irish bards. When they wrote enigmas they were apt to explain them
fully, as does the poet of "The Wooing of Emer" when he tell what was meant by the cryptic
questions and answers exchanged between that princess and Cuchulain. When the symbolism is
of the kind found in "Death's Summons" of Thomas Nash, which of all poems Mr. Yeats quotes
oftenest, all cultivated men may understand--

  "Brightness falls from the air;
  Queens have died young and fair;
  Dust hath closed Helen's eye."

The difference between the symbol Helen and each one of the several symbols Mr. Yeats employs
in "The Valley of the Black Pig" is the difference between a symbol universally recognized
throughout the world and a symbol recognized by one people; but there is the further difference
that one is intimately associated with the thing symbolized, is the name of a woman the context
tells us is a queen and beautiful, and the other is only the scene of a battle that symbolizes
the ending of the world. It is more natural to use a beautiful woman as a symbol of all beauty
than to use a black boar that shall root up all the light and life of the world as a symbol
of the ending of the world. But neither of these is a symbol that would be understood intuitively,
as the rose used as a symbol of beauty or the wind as a symbol of instability. Sometimes Mr.
Yeats's symbols are very remote, but perhaps they were remote in the old stories in which he
found them. The details in

                 "the phantom hound
  All pearly white, save one red ear,"

and "the hornless deer" which it chases, seem arbitrary. The hound, it is true, is known of
all men as the pursuer, and the deer as the pursued; but does this knowledge suggest immediately
"the desire of the man which is for the woman, and the desire of the woman which is for the
desire of the man"? Mr. Yeats does not, as I take it, expect all his symbols to be understood
so definitely as this hound and deer, which, of course, are not only symbols, but figures from
the tapestry of fairyland. It is often enough, perhaps, that we understand emotionally, as
in "Kubla Khan" or "The Owl." From some of his writing it would appear he believed many symbols
to be of very definite meaning and to be understood by generation upon generation. In the note
to "The Valley of the Black Pig" he writes, "Once a symbol has possessed the imagination of
large numbers of men, it becomes, as I believe, an embodiment of disembodied powers, and repeats
itself in dreams and visions, age after age."

This is but another phase of Mr. Yeats's belief that when a poem stirs us as by magic, it is
a real magic has been at work. The words have loosened the seals that the flesh has fastened
upon the universal memory which is subconscious in all of us, until that memory possesses us
and we are one with all that has been since the beginning of time, and may in such moments
live over all that has been lived. He thinks that in such moments the poet's magic brings before
us the past and the unseen as the past and the unseen were brought before our pagan ancestors
by the magical rites of their priests.

In his younger years Mr. Yeats held that poetry is "the words that have gathered up the heart's
desire of the world." His heart's desire was simpler in those days than his heart's desire
of after years. Then he had a child's wistfulness for little things and put lines in his poems
of Blake-like innocence and freshness. "The brown mice" that

                               "bob
  Round and round the oatmeal chest"

are out of memories of childhood, and many other of the similes of these early poems are out
of the ways of wild little things that appeal so to children, perhaps because they are wild
little things themselves. A later mood of Mr. Yeats is to hold of less account the things of
out-of-doors, but still he uses as similes the ways of birds, as did the old Irish bards whose
stories have so informed his. He never did describe nature for its own sake, but natural things
gave him more figures than they do now, although always there have been in his lines many out
of mythology. Summer days between Slieve Echtge and the western sea are, however, bringing
the plovers and curlews and peewits back to his poetry. In the country of the Countess Cathleen,
as everywhere in Ireland, you may hear "wind cry and water cry and curlew cry," and there,
as all the world over,--

  "Ill bodings are as native unto our hearts
  As are their spots unto the woodpeckers."

It is from such knowledge of country things come the fine lines about

  "The dark folk, who live in souls
  Of passionate men like bats in the dead trees";--

and such lines are coming again into his verse, even into the blank verse of his plays. The
poems in which "the strong human call" is heard are more than the many who read Mr. Yeats hurriedly
will think, and to those who know his story they reveal again and again a great and common
sorrow. Whole poems and plays are often symbols of the poet's life. So may "The Countess Cathleen"
be taken as well as "The King's Threshold." "Ephemera," "The Dedication to a Book of Stories,"
"In the Seven Woods," "The Old Age of Queen Maeve," "The Folly of Being Comforted," "Old Memory,"
"Adam's Curse," as well as the folk-poems of the first volumes, are but little "dream-burdened,"
and passages elsewhere have the human call.

It is true, though, that the dream-drenched poems are those most characteristic of the author,
those that give a note entirely new to English poetry. It is impossible to pick out one as
more representative than another where so many are representative and where all are of highest
achievement. Nowhere is his own individual note better sustained, however, than in the Michael
Robartes poems or in "The Rose of Battle" or "Into the Twilight"; and the hold that dream has
of him and the hold that human things have, chief among them love of country, are told with
utmost distinction and inevitability of phrase in "To Ireland in the Coming Times" and in "To
the Rose upon the Rood of Time."

I sometimes wonder, is the reason for the poet's holding so devotedly to spiritual things of
his kind not the very same holding of his peasant countryman to the folk-tales that take him
to a world as rich and gorgeous-hued as the Ireland about him is bare and gray, and to a church
that prepares him for a better world after death? A large part of all poetry is the realization
of the brevity of all beautiful things,--of bloom, of youth, of life; but no poet has more
often lamented "Fate and Time and Change" than Mr. Yeats. It is, he says, "our narrow rooms,
our short lives, our soon ended passions and emotions put us out of conceit with sooty and
feeble reality." So the poet seeks refuge in his own dream and in contemplation of the life
from which he came and to which he will return, and--one almost dare say--in communication
with which he now knows such joy. The poet's life is little because he has found out the littleness
of earthly things; the peasant holds life little because his share of it has been so poor.
If the peasant acquires riches by chance or by emigration, he sees as the poet that all he
can have is as nothing, so short is the time he may hold it. Irish writers of the past have
made this peasant only the jarvey wit; but if you read the old romances, or listen to the folk-tales
still alive, you will learn that Mr. Yeats is at one with his countryman in this basic likeness.

There is a side of Irish life, the side the world knows best, that Mr. Yeats does not present,
but that which he does present is true, though the poet's personality is so dominant that we
get more of this than of Ireland in his poetry. So it should be, so it is with every artist.
All the world can ask of him is his interpretation of what he knows. Yet so native is Mr. Yeats
that the atmosphere of his poetry is the very atmosphere of Ireland. The artist and the setting
of his art are in an unwonted harmony. No reader of Mr. Yeats who knows the brooding landscape
of West Ireland can escape that realization, but only he who has met the poet amid the scenes
that inspired his verse may know how complete is their accord. Such a meeting was mine one
lowering August day, in whose late afternoon we walked in the Woods of Coole. Then I knew at
last what Mr. Yeats meant by "druid charm" and "druid light." I felt the "druid charm" that
was potent in gray skies over gray water and gray rock and gray-green woods; the bewildering
"druid light" flashed out as the sun followed westward the trail to Hy Brasil, leaving in the
Atlantic skies wild after-glow of winter yellow.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Collected Works. Stratford-on-Avon, 1908, vol. II, p. 251.

CHAPTER IV

MR. EDWARD MARTYN AND MR. GEORGE MOORE

The announcement of Mr. Edward Martyn as playwright of "The Irish Literary Theatre" was, outside
of the narrow circle of his friends, a great surprise to all interested in letters in Ireland.
But the almost simultaneous announcement that Mr. George Moore was lending his aid to the adventure
was an even greater surprise. Mr. Moore had, of course, written more than once of Ireland,
and there were many who had not forgotten the unpleasantnesses of "A Drama in Muslin" (1886),
and Mr. Martyn, though the author of "Morgante the Lesser" (1890), was not known as its author,
as he had published it anonymously, and as it had not made enough of a stir for its anonymity
to be disclosed. Yet for the landlord-author, who had turned his back on Ireland, to return
to his country with a greater interest in its life and its writers than he had ever betrayed,
was more remarkable than for another landlord of the same family connection, comparatively
a stay-at-home landlord, to turn from sport and religion to the stage. Mr. Martyn had lived
in London and his love of music had taken him to the Continent, but he had been something of
a Nationalist, whereas Mr. Moore had lost few opportunities to scoff at the country his father
had striven so unselfishly to aid. What of Mr. Moore that was not French in 1899 was confessedly
English.

Now that those interested have read "Ave," the first volume of the three of "Hail and Farewell,"
in which Mr. Moore is confessing the reasons of his return to Ireland and of his second departure
from Ireland, they know that he had been mildly interested in Ireland as material for art as
far back as 1894, and that it was Mr. Martyn who had interested him in the things of home.
Mr. Moore tells us all about it more than explicitly in the "Overture" to his trilogy. In the
first chapter he tells us that the interest faded away gradually, to be reawakened in 1899
by a visit paid him in London by Mr. Martyn and Mr. Yeats, who came to ask his help in founding
a "Literary Theatre in Dublin." Then Mr. Moore learned the story of that theatre's inception,
a story to him "disappointingly short and simple. When Yeats had said that he had spent the
summer at Coole with Lady Gregory, I saw it all. Coole is but three miles from Tillyra [Mr.
Martyn's estate in Galway]; Edward is often at Coole; Lady Gregory and Yeats are often at Tillyra;
Yeats and Edward had written plays--the drama brings strange fowls to roost."

It takes Mr. Moore many pages to tell why it was he joined the three in their project, and
many more pages to tell of their collaboration during the first two years of the three years
that were the life of "The Irish Literary Theatre." The four are, indeed, the principal characters
of Mr. Moore's "Ave"--I had almost said his novel "Ave"--himself, Mr. Martyn, Mr. Yeats, and
Lady Gregory, to mention them in the order of prominence that Mr. Moore gives them.

Lady Gregory and Mr. Yeats have learned their art, the highest and most difficult of all forms
of literary art, so that each is sure in the shaping of fable and emotion to the stage, though
neither is to drama native-born as was Synge. Mr. Martyn and Mr. Moore have neither of them,
however, learned the art of the playwright. Mr. Martyn has the root of the matter in him, but
he remains the amateur. Mr. Moore was once the amateur, even in the novel, in "A Modern Lover"
(1883), for instance, true as that story is to the London art life and aristocratic life it
is intended to reflect, but he has since then won his way, book by book, to the position, now
that Mr. Hardy has given up the novel, of first novelist of the English-speaking peoples. Had
he studied the play as painfully and as long as he has studied the novel, it may be that Mr.
Moore had conquered it, too, though I doubt it, for the concentration necessary to drama is
alien to his method as a novelist. As it is, his best plays are but the good journeyman work
of one who is a skilled literary craftsman. Mr. Martyn has more originality of theme, more
intimacy with Irish character, a surer instinct for effective situation, and more nobility
of intention, though Mr. Moore's greater power over words gives his plays a dignity as art
that the plays of Mr. Martyn do not attain.

Alone of the quartette that founded "The Irish Literary Theatre," Mr. Martyn is possessed of
none of the instincts of the publicist. Lady Gregory has edited articles about ideals in Ireland
at home, and on the lecture platform she has stoutly fought the battles of "The Playboy of
the Western World" in America; Mr. Yeats has ever delighted in writing letters to the newspapers
and he has preached the evangel of the Renaissance from Edinburgh to San Francisco; and Mr.
George Moore is a controversialist pamphleteer even before he is a novelist. In the few articles
about the movement that Mr. Martyn has written, brief articles all of them, there is, however,
clear indication of the spirit in which he wrote his plays, if comparatively little discussion
of his art. In the second number of "Beltaine" (February, 1900), in an article entitled "A
Comparison between Irish and English Theatrical Audiences," Mr. Martyn declares that he sees
in Ireland, instead of the "vast cosmopolitanism and vulgarity" of England, "an idealism founded
upon the ancient genius of the land." It is wholly in accord with the spirit of this declaration
that Mr. Martyn has written his more important plays, all of them, in fact, but the satires
on weaklings and officials he calls "A Tale of a Town" (1902) and "The Place Hunters" (1905).
He writes little of the peasants, being less interested in them than are Mr. Yeats and Lady
Gregory, and therefore less acquainted with them. If one may judge from his writings the intimates
of Mr. Martyn have been among his own landlord class, the priests, and the politicians. It
is the landlords and middle-class people that occupy the foreground of his plays, Peg Inerny
in "Maeve" (1899) being the only important character a peasant, unless Mrs. Font in "The Enchanted
Sea" (1902) can be called a member of a class that she was born to, but from which her marriage
removed her.

This question of the class the plays should present was one of those that led to the withdrawal
of Mr. Martyn from the dramatic movement. A more definite cause, perhaps, was the unanimous
determination of Lady Gregory, Mr. Yeats, and Mr. Moore that his "A Tale of a Town" could not
be presented by "The Irish Literary Theatre" as he wrote it if the standards of that theatre
were to be preserved. Its author's magnanimity in turning it over to Mr. Moore to be rewritten,--as
it was, being presented as "The Bending of the Bough" (1900),--was revealed by Mr. Moore in
"Samhain" (October, 1901), and very much more fully, if less kindly, in "Ave" (1911).

In its way their refusal to play Mr. Martyn's "A Tale of a Town" was as creditable to the other
powers in the theatre as was his magnanimity in giving them the play to do with as they would.
They knew their refusal to play it might lead him to withdraw his support of the theatre and,
in the end, it was a factor in bringing about that result. After their rejection of "A Tale
of a Town," however, he still gave "The Irish Literary Theatre" his support, allowing it to
put on his "Maeve," and in 1901 contributing to "Samhain" (October), "A Plea for a National
Theatre in Ireland." Such a theatre Mr. Martyn had the power to give Ireland, but he did not
give it, when it was thought he might, and in 1902 all hope of his giving his money for such
a purpose was destroyed by his transference of a fund of fifty thousand dollars to the Catholic
Pro-Cathedral in Dublin "for the purpose of founding and supporting a Palestrina choir."

That Mr. Martyn was still a force to be reckoned with is revealed by the trouble Mr. Yeats
went to, in "Samhain" of October, 1902, to explain why it was that the plays of the Irish National
Dramatic Company were either folk-drama or drama whose life was the "life of poetry" Mr. Martyn
had argued in "The United Irishmen," which up to the time of the presentation of "In the Shadow
of the Glen" was a stanch supporter of the dramatic policies of Mr. Yeats, that the actors
of the company should be trained to the drama of modern society. "The acting of plays like
'Deirdre,' and of 'Cathleen ni Houlihan,'" writes Mr. Yeats, "with its speech of the country
people, did not seem to him a preparation. It is not, but that is as it should be. Our movement
is a return to the people, like the Russian movement of the early seventies, and the drama
of society could but magnify a condition of life which the countryman and the artisan could
but copy to their hurt. The play that is to give them a quite natural pleasure should either
tell them of their own life or of that life of poetry where every man can see his own image,
because there alone does human nature escape from arbitrary conditions. Plays about drawing-rooms
are written for the middle classes of great cities, for the classes who live in drawing-rooms,
but if you would uplift the man of the roads you must write about the roads, or about the people
of romance, or about great historical people."

Neither "Maeve" nor "The Enchanted Sea" can be called a drawing-room play, though both introduce
us to "drawing-room people," but "The Heather Field" (1899), Mr. Martyn's first play, and his
greatest success is a drawing-room play, as in a minor way are "A Tale of a Town" and "The
Place Hunters." These last two plays are failures; but they are not failures, I think because
they are drawing-room plays, but because Mr. Martyn is less effective with a full stage than
with two couples or so and, principally, because he is less successful with social and political
questions than with those that concern the individual.

Whatever value one puts upon "The Heather Field" it cannot be denied that it was a popular
success and that it was praised by critics whose judgment is discerning. It is perhaps because
it is a variant of the old theme of the war between man the idealist and woman the materialist
that it so appealed to young men, troubled themselves as to whether to follow their star or
to accept the chains that; wife and children impose. It was enough for the audience that witnessed
its first performances in the Antient Concert Rooms, Dublin, May 9, 10, 13, 1899, that it showed
a man at war with the despotism of fact, as Ireland, preeminently the Celtic Land, has so long
been. It was not remarkably acted, by an insufficiently rehearsed and not very understanding
scratch company, and yet it impressed its audiences more favorably than "The Countess Cathleen"
(1892), an unequivocally great poetic drama; and these audiences were the most cultivated Dublin
can boast.

"The Heather Field" is the story of the going-mad of Carden Tyrrell, a landlord of the west
of Ireland. From the first he is represented to us as a man to whom as to so many of his countrymen
dream is reality and reality dream. His wife, to whom the realities are very instant, urges
him to do as others do, to entertain, to hunt, at least to do something practical. For her
he has abandoned the ideal world he had built up for himself from his books and his dreams
and is trying farming. Yet his temperament is such that he must idealize even this. When the
curtain rises he is still busy with the project, long since undertaken, of reclaiming a wind-swept
heather field fronting the Atlantic and of making it into the best of pasture land. That reclamation
and transformation has become a passion with him, and soon we feel that it is the symbol of
that quality in him that is untamed, incurably "ideal." To free that field of rocks and to
drain its bogs he has mortgaged his estate, and, in the play, before the success or failure
of his undertaking is proved, he mortgages almost all that remains to him to improve the land
below, which the draining of the heather field has turned into a swamp. His wife, to prevent
this last folly, strives to have control of his property taken away from him, but his friend,
Barry Ussher, believing that restraint would make Tyrrell mad indeed, so intimidates a hesitating
physician that Mrs. Tyrrell fails in her most natural plan to save herself and her child from
ruin by having her husband declared incompetent, and, if necessary, restrained. With his friend's
assistance Tyrrell has won his fight against his wife. Obstinacy in the treatment of some tenants
that his debts have driven him to evict rouses such hatred against Tyrrell, until then a loved
landlord, that the police hold it necessary to follow him with an escort that he may not be
shot by his people. To avoid being so followed, Tyrrell keeps within doors and so intensifies
his malady. The catastrophe comes when, on his boy's first spring search for wild flowers,
the child brings him a handful of heather buds from the heather field. Their message is that
the mountain will revert to waste again. Even in his "ideal domain" reality has asserted itself.
His ideal world crumbles for the instant, and his reason with it, and forever. But after a
moment's agony ideality triumphantly reasserts itself, and in mad ecstasy Tyrrell, his years
fallen from him, passes from sight crying out at the beauty of a world that is to him now forever
a world of mornings in which, as he says, "the rain across a saffron sun trembles like gold
harpstrings through the purple Irish spring.... The voices--I hear them now triumphant in a
silver glory of song!" Such is the play, "aching and lofty in its loveliness."

Is this ending, or is it not, sadder than the catastrophe of "Ghosts"? Certainly to "Ghosts"
it owes something, and to "The Wild Duck" more than something. A quality as of Ibsen pervades
the play, and it has, too, back of it a background of nature and of thought that is beautiful
in the way the background of nature and of thought is beautiful and compensating in the plays
of Ibsen.

In his introduction to "The Heather Field," which was published before its presentation, Mr.
Moore writes, "Although all right and good sense are on the wife's side, the sympathy is always
with Carden." So it was on the presentation of the play in Dublin, Mr. Yeats writing in "The
Dome," "Our Irish playgoers sympathized with this man so perfectly that they hissed the doctors
who found that he was mad." Such an attitude is characteristically Irish; and equally characteristically
English was the reception of this play when Mr. Thomas Kingston presented it at a matinee at
the Strand Theatre in London. Mr. Yeats is again the authority: "The London playgoers ... sympathized
with the doctors, and held the divine vision a dream." Mr. Moore praises "The Heather Field"
more forthrightly in "Samhain" of October, 1901, holding that "'The Heather Field' has been
admitted to be the most thoughtful of modern prose plays written in English, the best constructed,
the most endurable to a thoughtful audience." Patriotism or kinship, love of paradox or desire
to assuage feelings hurt by the rough treatment of "A Tale of a Town," may any or all of them
be called upon to explain so sweeping a statement. But none of such motives could account for
its praise by Mr. Beerbohm in the London "Saturday Review." "Max" is often paradoxical, but
he is not paradoxical here: "Not long ago this play was published as a book, with a preface
by Mr. George Moore, and it was more or less vehemently disparaged by the critics. Knowing
that it was to be produced later in Dublin, and knowing how hard it is to dogmatize about a
play until one has seen it acted, I confined myself to a very mild disparagement of it. Now
that I have seen it acted, I am sorry that I disparaged it at all. It turns out to be a very
powerful play indeed." I have quoted Mr. Yeats and Mr. Moore and Mr. Beerbohm, not only because
I have not seen the play on the stage but because, on reading it, its effect is one that puts
my judgment at sea. Years ago as I read it it gripped me hard, but when I read it now and think
it over now, I am at a loss to see why, done as it is done, I should have been so moved by
it. Now I am moved greatly by but two situations. Both of these are in the last act. One of
them is Tyrrell's revulsion against the bad news that his brother Miles brings from Dublin
of the mortgagee's refusal to extend. His wife tells their friends that she is ruined, that
"pretty nearly all" their property is mortgaged, but Tyrrell cries out, "All, do you say? No--not
all. This vulture cannot touch the heather field! My hope,--it is my only hope, and it will
save me in the end. Ha, ha! These wise ones! They did not think the barren mountain of those
days worth naming in their deed. But now that mountain is a great green field worth more than
all they can seize, (with a strange intensity) and it is mine--all mine!"

The other situation that moves me greatly is that at the very close of the play, that from
which I quoted a while back, in which Tyrrell's madness becomes evident in his belief that
he is a youth again, with all the world before him to do with as he will.

The characters in "The Heather Field" are less rigid than those in the later plays, but even
in this play you feel about them, as you feel so often about the characters of Hawthorne, that
they are characters chosen to interpret an idea rather than children of the imagination or
portraits done from observation of life.

As one recalls the motive and situations and background and symbolism of "The Heather Field,"
not having read the play for some time, it seems far finer than when one returns to it. Fine,
too, it must seem to any one reading a scenario of it and not offended, as one reading it constantly
is by the inability of its dialogue to represent more of the person speaking than his point
of view. The dialogue of Mr. Martyn is almost never true dramatic speech, and not only not
true dramatic speech, but despite the very clear differentiation of the characters, with little
of their personality or temperament in it.

"Maeve" has always seemed to me a lesser play than "The Heather Field," and it now leaves me
even colder than of old. Nor, though I can see how fine in conception was the character of
Mrs. Font in "The Enchanted Sea," does that one character seem to me, now, to redeem the undeveloped
possibilities of the situations of the play, the incomplete characters of Guy and Mask and
the failure of the dialogue assigned to the characters to approach true dramatic speech. "Maeve"
is the better play of the two. With all its shortcomings it has about it an unearthliness of
atmosphere, a quiet coldness of beauty that has come of the thought Mr. Martyn had, as he wrote
it, of the moonlight on the Burren Hills in his home country. In this one respect Mr. Martyn
has done what he would, for he holds that "the greatest beauty like the old Greek sculptures
is always cold."

Mr. Martyn calls "Maeve" "a psychological drama in two acts." It relates the story of the last
day and night in the life of a visionary girl, the hereditary princess of Burren in Clare,
in the west of Ireland. On the eve of her marriage to Hugh Fitz Walter, a rich young Englishman,
whom she will wed only for her father's sake to reestablish him in his position as "The O'Heynes"
among the neighboring gentry, she wanders off into the Burren Hills with her old nurse Peg
Inerny. Peg has fascinated Maeve O'Heynes with tales of "the other people," convincing Maeve,
as she is convinced herself, that she changes from the old vagrant peasant whom the countryside
half fears into Queen Maeve, the great Amazon of the Cuchulain legends. Maeve O'Heynes in her
own dreams has seen great heroes and heroines of Ireland's legendary past, and she believes
that they still live among the fairies as many a peasant to-day beside Peg Inerny believes.
So Maeve follows Peg to the mountains, though it is her wedding-eve, to see these great people
of old time and to meet a lover she has seen in vision, the ideal man of her dreams. She finds
her way home several hours later through the white moonlight of the bitter March night. Then,
in a sort of trance, looking out of her window in the half-ruined castle to the ruined abbey,
the mysterious round tower, the stony mountains, she beholds the vision of Queen Maeve, with
an attendant troupe of harpers and pages, rise from the cairn and approach the castle. As the
troupe returns from castle to cairn Maeve's spirit passes with it under the Northern lights
into the land of the ever-young of Tir-nan-Ogue. When her sister goes to call her to make ready
for her wedding, she finds Maeve sitting still and cold at the open casement. Maeve has found
the supernatural lover, once human, of "boyish face closehooded with short gold hair," and
again only "a symbol of ideal beauty," to be truly a "Prince of the hoar dew," for he is death.
Maeve has renounced life and sought "perfection in what unfolds as death."

Mr. Yeats explains the play ("Beltaine," February, 1900) to "symbolize Ireland's choice between
English materialism and her own natural idealism, as well as the choice of every individual
soul." Does it follow that the lesson of "Maeve" is that it were better for Ireland to be depopulated
in her pursuit of national individuality, of ideal beauty, than to drift along to complete
Anglicanization, even though that bring riches, peace, and content? An austere policy, surely,
if I read rightly the meaning of Mr. Yeats.

"Maeve" was not so well played at its production during the second season's performances of
"The Irish Literary Theatre" in February, 1900, as "The Heather Field" had been performed in
1899, but it was almost as enthusiastically received. It has not won for itself, however, reproduction
outside of Dublin, as did Mr. Martyn's first play, which was played in New York, at the Carnegie
Lyceum, in April, 1900, and which was revived in London in 1903.

If objection be made to "The Enchanted Sea" as a reflection of "The Lady from the Sea," it
can be replied that the call of the sea that may not be resisted is as old as the heart of
man. Sea fairies, mermaids and mermen, and the voice of the waters tugging as irresistibly
on the tired spirit as the undertow on the body tired with long swimming, are in Gaelic literature
from the beginning, and before Mr. Martyn had written of the sea enchantment it had lent its
charm to many of the stories of "Fiona Macleod." It was two years after its publication in
1902 that, on April 18 and 19, 1904, "The Enchanted Sea" was put on at the Antient Concert
Rooms, Dublin by "The Players' Club." It was not well played, but according to Mr. Standish
James O'Grady it was much better, seen and listened to, than read. Writing, in his "All Ireland
Review," of its production, he puts it on record "I never saw an audience so attentive and
at the same time so undemonstrative. It was like being in church." The audience probably felt
the dignity of conception back of the insufficiency of execution in the play and its ineffectiveness
of presentation. The story that Mr. Martyn dreamed to carry over the footlights is of Mrs.
Font, a peasant woman who has sent her husband, a gentleman, to his grave a broken-spirited
man because of her sacrifice of his honor to advance their material position. When the curtain
rises, Mrs. Font has been thwarted, by the death of her son, in her lifelong dream of obtaining
possession of the Font estates. The estates have reverted to her nephew, Guy Font, a strange
boy, who has been brought up by the peasantry of the west coast and so has come to share many
of their beliefs. He is fascinated by the sea by which he lives, and his family's friend, Lord
Mask, has been drawn to him, although there is such disparity in their years, by this love
of the sea which he and the boy have in common. Mrs. Font wishes her daughter to marry Mask,
but the young people are but half in love with each other. Agnes Font cannot share his visionariness,
as her other lover, Commander Lyle, plainly sees. So the North of Ireland man never gives up
hope of winning her. Mrs. Font vulgarly throws Mask and Agnes together, in her determination
that they shall make a match of it, and as vulgarly tells Lyle the girl is not for him. Mask
cannot but marry Agnes, Mrs. Font thinks, if Agnes has a large fortune. To secure the fortune
and the lord for her daughter, Mrs. Font determines to get Guy Font out of the way. Her purpose
coincides with her peasant belief that he is a "changeling," and is really of the sea people.
So she goes with him to a sea cave he is fond of visiting, and only she comes from the cave.
She is suspected, but before the officers come for her, she learns that her crime has defeated
its own end. Mask is driven mad by the loss of his friend and, seeking to join him by the sea,
is overwhelmed and drawn out by the undertow. As the officers come to arrest her, Mrs. Font
hangs herself from the landing of the great staircase of Font Hill with the rope Guy used there
as a swing.

"The Enchanted Sea" is cruder, colder, more amateurish than the two other plays of its class,
full of the sort of talk that falls from the lips of a boy of seventeen just awakened to ideals.
Its characters act as openly and as petulantly as children. Mrs. Font, really fine in conception,
is in realization only a typical villain of the cheap melodrama; and Commander Lyle, of the
Royal Navy, a man of thirty, is as childish in love as a schoolboy whose beloved takes an ice
from his rival at a church festival.

What Mr. Martyn could have done with "A Tale of a Town," had he been willing to learn when
opportunity was his with Mr. Yeats and Mr. Moore and Lady Gregory, is partially shown in the
rewriting of the play by Mr. Moore into "The Bending of the Bough." The motives remain as they
were, and, in essentials, the action is the same, the first act being little different in the
two plays The four other acts, however, Mr. Moore has almost entirely rewritten, and though
everywhere the fundamental brainwork is Mr. Martyn's, the last acts are finer in the revised
version. Mr. Moore makes far more plausible the girl, Millicent Fell, for love of whom, and
a life of ease, the political leader Jasper Dean gives up a leadership through which he could
largely right his country's wrongs. Not only does Mr. Moore make believable the action of the
play, but he puts words on it, which, if not true dramatic speech, reveal, after the manner
of the novelist, just what are the thought and emotion of the characters, and the words are
in themselves beautiful.

In "A Tale of a Town" the political situation from which evolves the action of the play is
the unification by Jasper Dean of the corporation of a town, unnamed, on the west coast of
Ireland, to prosecute a lawsuit against an English town, Anglebury, which owes the Irish town
a large indemnity, promised the Irish town when it gave up a line of steamers in the interest
of the Anglebury line of steamers. After uniting all the various elements save the place hunter
Alderman Lawrence against Anglebury, Dean gives up the leadership because his fiancée, whose
uncle is the mayor of the English town, turns against him because he is opposed to the interests
of her set. To hold her he betrays his town.

"A Tale of a Town" is so crude, so naked, so obvious, so uninspired, one wonders why it can
be taken seriously at all. But the reason is not far to seek. The play is true, in the main,
to the life it depicts, and there is vehement feeling back of its satire; and truth and intensity
of feeling cannot be denied effect on the stage any more than on the rostrum. Where it falls
short of reality is in the dialogue of the aldermen. No politicians, even when egged by their
envious womankind, would ever give themselves away as do these of "A Tale of a Town." They
are as frankly self-revelatory as if they were characters in a morality play.

It would, perhaps, be inexact to call Mr. Martyn a misogynist, but he has that attitude toward
women of some priests his countrymen, as of many priests of all creeds, that there is something
belittling if not degrading in absorbing association with women. His feeling is not at all
the commoner feeling of men that leads them all to cry, "The woman tempted me." Women tempt
Mr. Martyn no more than they did Ruskin, but he seems to feel that the majority of them are
nuisances if not baggages. So strong is this feeling in "A Tale of a Town" that it leads him
to make Millicent behave in a way no Jasper Dean in real life would ever stand, for Jasper
Dean is not a man pronouncedly uxorious until his abject surrender at the end of Act IV.

There are almost as many indictments of women as there are of England in the plays of Mr. Martyn:
Mrs. Tyrrell in "The Heather Field" and Mrs. Font in "The Enchanted Sea," as well as all of
the women in "A Tale of a Town" save Miss Arabella Dean. In "Maeve," the heroine and Finola
are sympathetically presented, and there is a kind of attraction as well as decided repulsion
in Peg Inerny. But such sympathy as Mr. Martyn does express here seems to be expressed not
because the women are fellow human beings, but because Maeve and Peg Inerny symbolize Ireland's
resistance to English ways and because Finola is filled with loving-kindness for Maeve. Agnes
Font in "The Enchanted Sea" escapes the pillory rather inexplicably, for she is poor, weak
girlhood unable to understand the other-worldly idealism of her cousin and Lord Mask. But since
Mrs. Font was altogether repulsive and the men either too dreamy for "common nature's daily
food" or too hard in the way of the Black North, Mr. Martyn felt, I suppose, that his hearers
would be utterly alienated were there not some one in the play sympathetic in the ordinary
way of human nature.

"A Tale of a Town" was put on for the first time at Molesworth Hall, Dublin, late in October
of 1905, by Cumann nan Gaedheal, not very notably, but it was hailed by the Irish Ireland newspapers
as admirable propagandist material, "The United Irishmen" declaring that "an Irish play which
brings home to us, as this does, the secret of the endurance of foreign government in this
country, is a national asset."

Mr. Martyn has not cared enough for "The Place Hunters" (1905) to publish it in book form,
contenting himself with its printing in a little periodical. It is, as its title indicates,
a fellow of "A Tale of a Town," but it has not back of it intensity of feeling enough to lift
itself out of farce.

Between "The Place Hunters" and "Grangecolman" is an interval of seven years, but it is the
Mr. Martyn of earlier plays, still faithful to Ibsen and still of a dialogue more formal than
that of life, that we find in this play of his middle age. As you read "Grangecolman" you think
of "Rosmersholm," as you thought of "The Wild Duck" when you read "The Heather Field." "Grangecolman"
is the story of a daughter's frustration of her elderly father's intention to marry his young
amanuensis, by playing the rôle of the family ghost, long fabled but never seen, and being
shot by the girl she feels is driving her out of her home. Katherine Devlin is another creature
of her maker's misogyny. She is a bitter, barren woman of suffragette type, whose marriage
and career as a doctor have been alike failures, and who has alienated herself from all, even
her mild father, by her selfishness and discontent. It is she who has brought Miss Clare Farquhar
into her father's home to render him those services in his pursuit of heraldry and genealogy
that were irksome to her, and so she herself is responsible for his dependence on his secretary,
which, when once the daughter recognizes it, threatens annihilation of what little pleasure
she has in her life. Her husband is a dreamy sort of man, slack-fibred and pottering, who goes
about waving the banner of the ideal and refusing to work. The fifth character of the play
is the butler, Horan. All are clearly characterized, but if the dialogue is less stiff than
that of the earlier plays, it is little more distinctive of the people who speak it, and in
the latter part of the play labored and stodgy. "Grangecolman" is a picture of life as we all
know it, and there is in it a fidelity of purpose that gives it a kind of effectiveness. There
is not in it, however, any keenness of vision, any deep reading of life, any great underlying
emotion, to relieve its abject sordidness. There is no gusto, no beauty, no intensity of bitterness
even, to make its sordidness interesting in any other than a pathological way.

As one reads "Hail and Farewell," one might readily come to believe that Mr. Martyn is only
an eccentric character, "gotten up" by Mr. Moore for a novel. Mr. Martyn is, in reality, a
very vital force working for the nationalization of Irish art, if not an artist himself. The
pity is that he is not wholly an artist, for he might have been. He knows and is interested
in classes of Irish society that the dramatists of the Abbey Theatre have not tried to depict,
and had he realized twelve years ago what a chance was his to learn the art of the stage, with
the help and collaboration of Mr. Moore, Mr. Yeats, and Lady Gregory, he might now be what
he seemed to be after the triumphant production of "The Heather Field," the Irish playwright
who had adapted the modes of Ibsen to the presentation of the life of Irish landlords and bourgeois
politicians.

But Mr. Martyn would not realize that ideas--and he is rich in ideas--constitute the larger
part of originality; he thought technique in drama must come from the man himself, too. Such
technique, of course, comes most often from the study of other drama. Certainly it was an original
possession of none of the dramatists of the Celtic Renaissance, and Mr. Martyn might have been
content to be a fellow learner, along with the rest of them, from one another, and from all
the great dramatists of the world. It may be that Mr. Martyn never would have attained style,
but he could, I think, have learned to make his characters express themselves in a way nearer
to true dramatic speech than the lifeless dialogue of his that only just manages to give you
their thought, with none of their mood of the moment or of their personality.

In every one of Mr. Martyn's plays the plot is interesting, save in "The Place Hunters"; in
every other play it is significant; and in all it is come largely of his individual experience
of life. Back of all the plays but these two political satires there is brooding that is deep
if not passionate. In all the characters are natural, though some of them are unusual in the
way of the unusual characters of Ibsen. And all the plays are marred, "The Heather Field" less
than any other, by the fumbling touch of the amateur. Ironically, Mr. Martyn is strong where
most Irishmen are weak--in his plot construction: even Mr. Yeats, who never praises with his
tongue in his cheek, owning to "the triumphant construction of the 'The Heather Field'"; and
weak, where most Irishmen are strong, in the dialogue. It would not have aided Mr. Martyn,
for the kind of play he prefers, to have listened to the speech of the peasant as Lady Gregory
has listened to it, but he might have learned, with such compeers, how to select and to condense
from actual upper-class speech a speech that would represent the thoughts and emotions and
personalities of his characters. It is far more difficult, of course, to write dialogue for
upper-class people, save humorous dialogue, since, as many from Wordsworth's day on have pointed
out, upper-class people do not express their thoughts and emotions as frankly as do the folk.
As Mr. Yeats puts it, they look into the fire instead.

Amateur as he is, however, Mr. Martyn has one play to his credit that he who has read will
remember, "The Heather Field." It is often thus with the amateur. We need go no further than
Mr. Martyn's countryman who gave us "The Burial of Sir John Moore" for witness. Mr. Martyn
has, too, like other amateurs, given suggestions to others that they have realized as fine
art. It is more than likely, for instance, that Mr. Yeats had in his mind some memory of Peg
Inerny when he created Cathleen ni Houlihan. There is, too, about the best plays of Mr. Martyn,
a quality of a certain kind. They have the distinctness of objects seen under the bright hard
light of late winter, when the sun grows strong, but when the winds are still keen from the
northwest and there are no leaves as yet on the trees.

There are many characterizations of Mr. Martyn in his kinsman's "Ave." He is now "a fellow
... with an original streak of genius in him, and very little literary tact"; but he is more
generally characterized in some such fashion as this, which Mr. Moore makes a deliverance of
his own: "A good fellow--an excellent one, and a man who would have written well if his mother
hadn't put it into his head that he had a soul. The soul is a veritable pitfall." However that
may be, it was the discovery, or at least suppositious discovery, that he had a soul, a soul
in harmony with the melancholy soul of Ireland, that drove Mr. Moore back to Dublin, and, for
moments, even farther west to the home country of his family about Lough Gara in Mayo. This
discovery was foreshadowed in "Evelyn Innes" (1898), in which Mr. Moore grows curious about
the belief in ancestral memory and other esoteric beliefs of Mr. Yeats; it is latent in the
introductions to "The Heather Field" and "The Bending of the Bough"; and it is made manifest
in the parts of the latter play that are Mr. Moore's. Who most helped him to the discovery
it is not easy to say, but an interest in his country entered into and possessed him as Kirwan's
ideas entered into and possessed Dean. No doubt Mr. Yeats helped him to find his soul, and
Mr. Russell, but it must be it was Mr. Martyn through whose agency the first glimmerings of
such a recognition began to break upon his mind. Is it only dramatically that Mr. Moore wrote
when he put upon Kirwan's lips in 1900 the words, "Life is the enemy--we should fly from life"?
But whether this is only a dramatic repetition of what he might have heard any time from "A.E."
had he chosen to listen, there is no doubt that Mr. Moore did discover a new quality in himself
in the late nineties after he became intimately associated with the new Irish movement. There
is a wistfulness of feeling and a beauty of thought in his writing, from "Evelyn Innes" on,
that there was not in it before "Evelyn Innes."

There are those who think the greatest excellence of Mr. Moore is as an art critic, and that
"Modern Painting" (1893) is his great book. Mr. Moore himself says that "Esther Waters" (1894)
is his only book that he can read with admiration and content; and those particularly interested
in the Renaissance will hold out for "Evelyn Innes" or "The Lake" (1905). To me "A Drama in
Muslin" (1886) is the best story of Mr. Moore in his earlier realistic manner and "The Lake"
in his later manner, a manner that is now wistful and now mellow, as in "A Drama in Muslin"
his manner is uniformly as hard as winter sunshine.

Mr. Moore is, as I said at the outset, a hard-working amateur in "A Modern Lover"; three years
later, in "A Drama in Muslin," he writes with authority and insight; as he does, too, in "Parnell
and his Island" (1887), though here with scant sympathy; but it is not until "Evelyn Innes"
that he becomes deeply concerned with beauty of subject or beauty of background, or, except
at haphazard, possessed of any mastery of style. "Evelyn Innes" is very well written,--in spots,--but
"The Lake" is of a wholeness of good tissue that is attainable only through an art that has
labored long and earnestly to achieve beauty. Had Mr. Moore never recaptured his ancestral
tradition, had he remained the writer that Paris and London had made him, he had never written
so finely as he writes in "The Lake." An infancy and boyhood in Ireland; a youth in London;
the ten years from twenty-one to thirty-one in Paris; eleven years of hard writing in London,
years comparatively lean after those of luxury that anteceded them, brought Mr. Moore at forty-two
to a knowledge of what was beautiful and significant in his home country. He and Mr. Martyn
were not many years apart when they began to write about Ireland, but Mr. Moore had back of
him not only ten years of writing, but back of that ten years of living life as an art in Paris
and his attempts in the art of painting and his years of discussion of art in the studios.
Mr. Martyn, at home, had been more concerned with religion and nationality and politics, and
a shift to art as the principal career of life after forty--"Morgante the Lesser" was no more
than an incursion into art, about as much of his life as a trip to Bayreuth--is only in rare
instances productive of results interesting to others than the "artist." The difference in
the achievements of the two men is not so much the result of the difference of the powers with
which both were gifted as the result of the difference of time at which the will began to work
to realize those powers. Had Mr. Martyn begun soon enough and had he been enough interested
in his writing he might have made drama as full of insight and beauty and as true to human
nature as are the novels of his kinsman. It is another irony of Mr. Martyn's life that it was
he who should have led Mr. Moore to the subject on which Mr. Moore was to do his most harmonious
and beautiful work, though it is possible, judging from "Parnell and his Island," that Mr.
Moore might in the end have found his own way back.

After his wont Mr. Moore puts his intimates into books made out of Irish life. In "Evelyn Innes"
Ulick Dean, fashioned in the first version of the novel after Mr. Yeats, is the only wholly
Irish character. Evelyn is not Irish at all, and her Scotch father is given the musical interests
of Mr. Dolmetsch, a Bohemian, I believe. But Sir Owen Asher has in him much of Mr. Moore himself,
though most of Mr. Moore that is there is the English Mr. Moore. There is something of Mr.
Martyn in Monsignor Mostyn, though an actual and not a potential ecclesiastic is drawn upon
for the basic characteristics of the character In the second version of "Evelyn Innes" there
is more of Mr. Russell than of Mr. Yeats in Ulick Dean, at least in his appearance and sayings,
though Mr. Moore could not divest his composer of the personality of Mr. Yeats. There is less
of Ireland in "Sister Theresa" (1901) than in "Evelyn Innes," but "The Untilled Field," short
stories written after the removal of Mr. Moore to Dublin and gathered together in 1903, are
wholly concerned with Ireland. As Mr. Moore makes Jasper say to Millicent in "The Bending of
the Bough": "It is the land underfoot that makes the Celt. Soon you will feel the fascination
of this dim, remote land steal over you." It was when this æsthetic homesickness overtook Mr.
Moore that he grew to feel lonely in England, at least momentarily, and to believe that "we
are lonely in a foreign land because we are deprived of our past life; but the past is about
us here [he is speaking through the mouth of Dean and in Ireland]; we see it at evening glimmering
among the hollows of the hills."

In "Memoirs of my Dead Self" (1906) there are chapters which tell of the return of his thought
to his boyhood in the west and that record his wish to be buried with his father by Lough Gara;
and all three volumes of "Hail and Farewell," the first of which was published in 1911 as "Ave,"
and the second in 1912 as "Salve," are the fruit of his ten years' partial residence in Ireland,
1901-11.

Our concern with Mr. Moore here, however, is with Mr. Moore the dramatist, so I shall not dwell
on the short stories and the novels save to say that they, more than any writing of his, reveal
his inherent dramatic power. By dramatic power I mean not his power of situation and evolution
of dramatic technique, but his power to change his point of view with the character he is creating
A sensual exquisite himself whose predominant thought is of woman, and of woman from a standpoint
closely akin to an epicure's toward an ideal meal, Mr. Moore can identify himself with people
in whom there is none of himself but the essential humanity common to mankind. Most wonderful
of many wonderful realizations of viewpoint so different from what is his personally is his
realization of the attitude of Father MacTurnan, an old priest, celibate by nature, who put
aside his books, as ministering to the pride of the intellect, and sat, night after night,
with them by his side in the study, but always unopened, while he was knitting socks for the
poor of his parish. Better known, of course, than this character of Father MacTurnan is that
of Father Gogarty in "The Lake," but for all his sympathetic elaboration of this bemused and
distraught cleric the character is never wholly opposed to that of Mr. Moore himself as is
the character of Father MacTurnan.

It is this power of Mr. Moore that makes him the great novelist that he is, this power of identifying
himself with the personality and this looking out on life from the viewpoint of Esther Waters
or Lewis Seymour, or Edward Dempsey or Rose Leicester, of Kate Lennox or Mr. Innes. Such a
power is akin to one of the greatest powers of the Gael, his quick sympathy with what appeals
to him in others, his momentary absorption in their interests and his passing possession by
their purpose. It is this habit of his nature that makes the Gael tell people what they wish
to hear, it is this that makes him so courteous, it is this that makes him so good an actor.
And the power that makes one man a good actor, a real actor,--not one who happens to fit a
part, but one who can change his personality from part to part,--is but another manifestation
of the power that enables a man to identify himself wholly, now with this character, now with
that, in a story which he is writing. If a man can express such identification in dialogue,
he can, if he master dramatic construction, make himself into a dramatist; if he express it
in subtle analytic writing about the character, it gives him one of the great powers of the
novelist, a power which, if it is united with the power of story-telling, makes him a great
novelist, and, oftentimes, even if he be but a fair story-teller, a great novelist. The English
novel has been famously deficient in story-telling ability since Scott's day, and Mr. Moore
is no exception to the rule. As, however, the emphasis of all his stories is on character,
his deficiency in narrative power matters hardly at all.

Mr. Moore is, then, Ireland's greatest novelist because he has in greatest measure--in full
measure--this greatest gift of the Gael, the gift of dramatic impersonation of all manner of
men in all their changing moods. A personality as intense as was that of Meredith, as is that
of Mr. Hardy, Mr. Moore has not always one attitude, as have both Welshman and Saxon of the
Saxons, however completely they write from the standpoint of each character they create. By
the side of the characters of Meredith is always Meredith, high-hearted and confident, and
by the side of the characters of Mr. Hardy is always Mr. Hardy, lamenting what woe fate has
brought them, but by the side of Ned Carmady or Oliver Gogarty, the Mummer or Montgomery, Sir
Owen Asher or Ulick, there is seldom Mr. Moore. He almost never plays chorus to his characters,
either through a commenting character or by direct interposition in the manner of Thackeray,
though, of course, the characters again and again express his views. So in "The Wild Goose,"
in which Ned Carmady represents one year's outlook of Mr. Moore, there is only one choric observation.

When one considers how alien to Ireland were all the interests of Mr. Moore for years, his
rendering of the Irish characters of "The Untilled Field" and "The Lake" is realized to be
all the more remarkable. It is not easy to pick up threads that one has dropped in a period
of one's life that is dead and done, but Mr. Moore has picked them up more than once. From
time to time he had, of course, made visits home, writing "A Mummer's Wife" in Galway in 1884
and finding there then, no doubt, the material for "A Drama in Muslin" and the sketches of
"Parnell and his Island"; but these visits were none of them of long duration until his "return"
in 1901.

It is far easier to paint in the background of landscape remembered from childhood than it
is again to get into touch with people parted from in childhood. The landscape changes little
in far-off, lonely places, but people nowhere are what they were when the past years sufficient
to bring up beside the old folks a new generation with ideals changed. Ireland, for all the
agitation of the Land League, was landlord Ireland when Mr. Moore got "A Drama in Muslin" from
Ireland; Ireland was passing to the peasant proprietor when Mr. Moore returned to it to write
"The Untilled Field" and "The Lake." Social and economic questions, however, interest Mr. Moore
only as they concern the individual, but the changing conditions in Ireland cannot be prevented
from finding their way here and there into his writing through the changes they have brought
about in the people of whom he writes, though many of those he writes of are survivals from
an older generation.

There are glimpses in his writing of many phases of Irish life, his characters varying all
the way from such old-timers as his Cousin Dan, who, as he himself intimates, might have come
out of the pages of Lever or Lover, to the very modern Father Gogarty, whose outlook is on
an Ireland that "perhaps, more than any other country, had understood the supremacy of spirit
over matter, and had striven to escape through mortifications from the prison of the flesh."
One wonders, at times, if Mr. Moore, who joined the cause of Mr. Martyn and Mr. Yeats, self-confessedly,
to have his finger in a new literary pie, really felt the landscape as he says he does in his
books, or whether he just momentarily caught the power of seeing it through their eyes. Can
one who was once so resolute a realist really appreciate "faint Celtic haze; a vision of silver
mist and distant mountain and moor"? Perhaps he can, as a good actor appreciates a part alien
to his sympathy, that he is playing. But whether or not Mr. Moore learned to love the lonely
landscape for a while, he eventually tired of it, as his Father Gogarty tired of it. Surely
Mr. Moore is speaking personally as well as dramatically when he writes, "This lake was beautiful,
but he was tired of its low gray shores; he was tired of those mountains, melancholy as Irish
melodies, and as beautiful."

Almost any novelist, sooner or later in his career, dabbles in drama, and Mr. Moore no doubt
would have attempted drama in the natural course of things, even if he had not been interested
in "The Independent Theatre" and thus led to a situation in which consistency demanded that
he write a play. It was his articles on the drama, gathered into "Impressions and Opinions"
(1891), that provoked Mr. G.R. Sims to taunt him into "The Strike at Arlingford" (1893). In
"Our Dramatists and their Literature," one of these papers, Mr. Moore, in hitting all the heads
of all the contemporaneous dramatists, so stung Mr. Sims that he said he would give a hundred
pounds for a stall from which to witness a performance of "an unconventional play" written
by Mr. Moore. Mr. Moore accepted the challenge, and "The Strike at Arlingford," as I have said,
was the result, Mr. Sims having agreed to withdraw the word "unconventional" on Mr. Moore's
objection that he would be at the mercy of Mr. Sims' judgment if the word was retained. "The
Independent Theatre" played the play and Mr. Sims paid the money. It was perhaps just as well
for Mr. Moore that the adjective was withdrawn, for the play was little less conventional than
"The Second Mrs. Tanqueray" or "Sowing the Wind," to mention two successes of that year by
play-makers that took their art a little more seriously than Mr. Sims. In a way, too, "The
Strike at Arlingford" is unoriginal. Lady Ann Travers is only a more fortunate Hedda Gabler
who in the end accepts the protection of her Chancellor Brack, the capitalist Baron Steinbach,
after her Lövberg turned labor agitator, John Reid has, like his prototype, made a wreck of
his life. "The Strike at Arlingford" has its excellences: its plot is logically unfolded; it
is believable; it is true to human nature; it has moments of intensity. Had Mr. Moore power
of dialogue it might have been a fine play, for the characterization is what one would expect
from so conscientious a depicter of life as Mr. Moore, and the problem, a man's choice between
his love and his duty, one that has never failed to appeal to men. Mr. Moore is careful to
tell us that, in his own conception of the play, "the labor dispute is an externality to which
I attach little importance."

Its performance and publication, though neither event was of very much more than journalistic
importance, served to give Mr. Moore something of a position as an authority on the drama,
coming as they did after his association, since 1891, with "The Independent Theatre." So it
is that we find him collaborating with Mrs. Craigie in "Journeys End in Lovers Meeting" (1894),
which served for a year or so as one of the little plays that characterized the repertoire
of the Irving-Terry Company. Just what was Mr. Moore's share in this play I do not know, but
that, slight as it is, it served as apprentice work in the art of collaboration there can be
no doubt, or that it added to his familiarity with the stage.

It is certain that Mr. Martyn and Mr. Yeats were glad of the assistance of Mr. Moore in founding
"The Irish Literary Theatre," not only for the prominence of his name as novelist and as Moore
of Moore Hall, and for his known provocativeness in pamphleteering and his capacity for drawing
the fire of opponents, but for what knowledge he had of playwriting and for what experience
he had in getting together and training actors for special performances such as those of "The
Independent Theatre."

I have already spoken of what Mr. Moore did to "A Tale of a Town" to make it "The Bending of
the Bough." From the beginning of Act II on to the end, he rewrote almost all of it, retaining
only now and then an eloquent or a biting line from Mr. Martyn's play. Mr. Moore changes the
scene of the play from Ireland to Scotland, that its allegory may not be so obvious; he develops
Kirwan's character until he becomes not only a sort of composite spiritual portrait of the
leaders of the Renaissance but a believable leader of men; and he makes Millicent's moulding
of Dean to her will human, as I have said, and--Dean being the weakling that he was--inevitable.
Mr. Moore cuts the play down where it is stodgy, he expands it where expansion realizes for
you more of character and motives of his people, he infuses into it more of the spirit of the
movement, and he makes its patriotism wider in its appeal, a bigger and a better thing at once
more concrete and more concerned with the things of the spirit.

"Diarmid and Grania" (1901), the prose play written in collaboration by Mr. Yeats and Mr. Moore,
I write of here rather than in the chapter devoted to Mr. Yeats because, as the legend is shaped
in the play, it has more of Mr. Moore than of Mr. Yeats in it. As neither of the collaborators
was satisfied with the play as produced, and as neither has been willing to give it up to the
other to rewrite, "Diarmid and Grania" has never been published. The notices of its production,
on October 21, 1901, at the Gaiety Theatre, Dublin, are so full, however, and the legend on
which it is based so familiar, that it is possible to say as I have said, when one knows well
the work of both authors, whose influence is dominant in it. It seems, from the notices, to
have been finely played by the Benson Company, which was brought over from England especially
to produce it. The results of "the scratch company" of the second year's performances, even
though these were transferred from the Antient Concert Rooms to the better stage of the Gaiety
Theatre, were not very satisfactory artistically, but the third year's experiment was in every
way more successful. "The Daily Express" of Dublin, in those days very much interested in Irish
Ireland, thus records, on October 22, 1901, the impressions of the first night. "The 'house'
was not merely crowded but representative. We counted among the audience the heads of all the
great professions in Dublin, a considerable number of literary critics, and an extremely large
representation of 'le monde où l'on s'amuse.' The Gaelic League, which flooded the gallery,
was very friendly to Mr. Moore and Mr. Yeats, and became enthusiastic over Dr. Douglas Hyde
['The Twisting of the Rope,' by Dr. Hyde, was played by him and company of amateurs, in Irish].
Between the acts of 'Diarmid and Grania' several members of the 'gods' sang number of Gaelic
songs with great gusto and a good deal of musical ability."

There are several versions of the old legend, some of them cynical, leaving Grania in the end
lighter even than Helen of Troy; others closing with Diarmid slain by the boar as Adonis is
slain, and Grania weeping his death. In all it is Grania who tempts Diarmid to take her away
from Finn on the eve of her wedding to the old king. In some he goes willingly, in love with
her, in others unwillingly, ashamed of his disloyalty to Finn, but under giesa not to refuse
a woman's request. In the play of Mr. Moore and Mr. Yeats Diarmid and Grania "do not live,"
says the "Daily Express," "the exciting life of flight from cromlech to cromlech. They settle
down very comfortably in the monotony of a prosperous farm. Diarmid busies himself with his
sheep. Grania ... begins to pine for the society from which she has wilfully cut herself off,
and to think more and more of the grim old warrior Finn. Then Finn comes upon the scene, patches
up a sort of truce with Diarmid, and becomes more friendly with Grania, his lost sweetheart,
than Diarmid is able to tolerate. Mutual recriminations ensue between Diarmid and Grania, and
finally Diarmid goes forth to his portended death, with the taunts of Grania and the rude jeers
of the Fianna ringing in his ears. As the play closes, the Fianna bear away the body of Diarmid,
Finn comforts the weeping Grania, and we remember the words of the legend that 'some say she
was married to Finn.' The curtain falls--a happy touch of purely modern cynicism--upon the
solitary figure of Conan, the Thersites of the play, the prophet of evil chances, the scorner
of high things, the prompter of foul suggestions."

As the play was being written a good deal of discussion about it found its way into the newspapers.
It was rumored that it would be translated into Irish, and then back again, by Lady Gregory,
into English, but no such fantastic scheme as that Mr. Moore tells us of in "Ave" was suggested
in any of the paragraphs that came my way. Because they could not agree on the kind of diction
they were to use in the play, Mr. Yeats, who wanted a peasant Grania, agreed, writes Mr. Moore,
to his suggestion that he write the play in French. Mr. Moore gives these as the words of Mr.
Yeats: "Lady Gregory will translate your text into English. Taidgh O'Donoghue will translate
the English text into Irish, and Lady Gregory will translate the Irish text back into English."
"And then," Mr. Moore makes himself reply to Mr. Yeats, "you'll put style upon it."

More remarkable than the scheme was the actual attempt of Mr. Moore to realize it. On leaving
Galway, where he and Mr. Yeats had been collaborating at Coole, Mr. Moore began the second
act in French. He gives us enough of the dialogue (pages 370 to 376 of "Ave") to show us his
high pride in his French, the tolerance of his humor, and his idea of the kind of style the
play should have.

If Mr. Moore had given the subject to Mr. Yeats and to Lady Gregory, as he had some thought
of doing, it would only have been a return of a subject already theirs by right of their long
discussion of it together. Lady Gregory was not yet working upon it for "Gods and Fighting
Men" (1904); but it was she who had reduced it to the proportions of a scenario for them to
work upon. This scenario was published in "Samhain" of October, 1901, that all of the audiences
of the play might be in possession of the story as a Grecian audience was in possession of
the story of Elektra. And did not Mr. Moore say in his speech at the dinner given to the supporters
of "The Irish Literary Theatre" in February, 1900, in speaking of his collaboration with Mr.
Yeats in "Diarmid and Grania": "It would be difficult to name any poet that Ireland has yet
produced more truly elected by his individual and racial genius to interpret the old legend
than the distinguished poet whose contemporary and collaborateur I have the honor to be"?

The story, of course, had been retold only less often than the story of Deirdre by Irish writers,
in one form or another, but there had been no memorable play made out of it. Mr. Yeats had
met it in "The Death of Dermid," which Sir Samuel Ferguson included in "The Lays of the Western
Gael" (1864), as well as in the direct translations of such scholars as Mr. Standish Hayes
O'Grady and in the versions of such popularizers as Dr. Joyce. One cannot, not having read
the play, declare it is not what Mr. Moore would have it, "that dramatic telling of the story
which Ireland has been waiting for these many years," but it does not seem so to have impressed
those who saw it and heard it at the performances in the Gaiety Theatre.

Now that Lady Gregory has done her "Grania" (1912), it is hardly likely that Mr. Yeats will
return to the story, and with the waning of Mr. Moore's interest in old Irish legend it is
very unlikely that he will wish to rewrite the play. It would seem we have lost it, whatever
its value, until the "literary remains" of Mr. Moore are given to the public.

The quarrel with Mr. Yeats over "Diarmid and Grania," coming as it did at the end of the three
years' venture of "The Irish Literary Theatre," explains why Mr. Moore wrote no plays for the
Irish National Dramatic Company and its successors on through the Abbey Theatre Players. He
was still interested, however, in the "cause" as far as it was possible for one of his temperament
and taste, and he was conspicuous on first nights at the Abbey Theatre down to the time of
his departure from Dublin in 1911.

Since "Diarmid and Grania" (1901) Mr. Moore has published the two books of his that since "A
Drama in Muslin" (1886) reveal his deepest knowledge of Irish life, the volume of stories of
varying length to which he gives that title, so symbolic, "The Untilled Field" (1903), and
"The Lake" (1905), but there are few incidents in either that he is likely to develop into
plays. "The Lake" could not be dramatized, but if it could be dramatized, it would be as little
likely to be presented in Ireland as "The Tinker's Wedding." Mr. Moore, for all that he was
born a Catholic, would not hesitate any more than did the son of the Protestant minister to
put a priest into a realistic modern play, and that, of course, would be a mild audacity for
Mr. Moore now that he has published the scenario of "The Apostle" (1911). His Paul, in "The
Apostle," a "thick-set man, of rugged appearance, hairy in the face and with a belly," is wonderfully
alive, and his Jesus is a distinct and realizable personality, if not the Jesus of Christian
dream. It is a curious illustration of Mr. Moore's almost disciple-like attitude toward Mr.
G.W. Russell that he should make his Christ talk like "A.E." It seemed to me, as I read the
words that Mr. Moore puts first on the lips of Jesus, that they were phrases that I had heard
on the lips of Mr. Russell. They are of the very quality of his speech and writing: "How beautiful
is the evening light as it dies, revealing every crest; the outline of the hills is evident
now, evident as the will of God." And now each time, as I re-read them, they sound in my ears
to the remembered rhythm of Mr. Russell's voice. Should Mr. Moore ever evolve a play from this
scenario, and the play be played--and why should it not, now that the way is so plainly blazed
by the score and more of miracle plays of the past decade?--it will have to be chanted as "A.E."
chants his verse, as one would wish mass to be chanted.

Only a year ago Mr. Moore made his last adventure of the theatre. With the help of Mr. Lennox
Robinson he dramatized "Esther Waters," but later he threw out the latter's work, feeling,
no doubt, about it as Mr. Martyn felt about Mr. Moore's rewriting of his "A Tale of a Town";
and when it was put on, in the early winter of 1911-12 by the Stage Society, "Esther Waters"
the play was like "Esther Waters" the novel, solely the work of Mr. Moore. The critics seem
agreed that it was long drawn out and undramatic, but that it was well written and well acted.
I suppose that the preoccupation with "Esther Waters" that this dramatization reveals is because
"Esther Waters" was written in that period of his life when Mr. Moore was most himself. After
ten years in London he had escaped considerably from the French influence of his young manhood,
and his genius had not been warped out of its true plane, as he would doubtless now say, by
Irish mists. Mr. Moore must have felt that there was something not wholly himself in much of
"The Untilled Field" and in much of "The Lake," that the minds of Mr. Yeats and Mr. Russell
had in a way dominated his mind, and that not even the hardly tolerated Mr. Martyn had been
without influence upon him.

Such a realization is not the professed motive for the return of Mr. Moore to England, but
I have no doubt at all that it is somewhere in the back of his mind, where he would like it
to be hidden and forgot. At any rate, by the time of his return to England, Mr. Moore had come
to see clearly that the Celtic episode of his maturity was closed.

It is not, I think, particularly difficult for one who understands the old-fashioned camp-meeting
"getting of religion" to understand this "Celtic episode." Mr. Moore got Celtomania; a sort
of "spiritual consumption," he calls his possession in one place, as a certain other type of
sinner "got religion" in the old shouting days. That is, Mr. Moore wrought himself up partly
in the spirit of the Playboy, and was wrought up to some degree willy-nilly until he could
write his speech of February, 1900, on "Literature and the Irish Language," and, finally, a
little later, could return happily to the country that until then he could endure only now
and again.

But as a matter of fact the motive that led Mr. Moore back to Ireland matters not at all to
literature. What beauty of writing that return led to matters a great deal. Had he not returned
to Ireland, we should not have had a good deal that adds to the joy we win from satiric laughter,
we should not have had "Hail and Farewell"; had he not returned we should not have had a book
that adds to the treasure of beautiful feeling and beautiful writing there is in English literature,
a treasure that there is no chance of ever having too large; we should not have had "The Lake,"
which is Ireland, West Ireland, Catholic Ireland, a land under gray skies that the priests
its masters would, too many of them, make a land of gray lives.

CHAPTER V

MR. GEORGE W. RUSSELL ("A.E.")

Synge is the one instinctive dramatist of the earlier group of writers of the Celtic Renaissance,
the one to whom drama was the inevitable medium for the expression of the best that was in
him. Yet even Synge came to write plays only through an external stimulus, the urging of Mr.
Yeats on their meeting in Paris. It was fortunate for the Irish drama, this meeting, and fortunate
for Synge. If he had not been brought to the theatre of his own country, he would probably
never have written anything of first importance. Mr. Yeats himself, of course, had been interested
in verse plays from boyhood, but he, for all the energy he has expended in learning his own
particular art of the stage, speaks more beautifully through his lyrics and the lyrical passages
of his plays than through their passages that are dramatic speech, and not only more beautifully
but with more of dignity and power. Nor is Lady Gregory, any more than Mr. Yeats, essentially
a dramatist. Her great power is the power of dialogue, and dialogue, of course, is as often
employed in the service of the story as in the service of the play. Yet it is not difficult
to understand how in Lady Gregory the dialogue and in Mr. Yeats the love of the spoken word
led, when opportunity was made, to writing for the stage, and for success on the stage. But
in the case of "A.E." it is as difficult to find a foreshadowing of the playwright in the mystical
poet as it would be to see in all but all of the essays of "The Treasure of the Humble," any
proof that their author was a playwright. To those who knew Mr. Russell only through his verses,
and were unaware of the versatility of the man, his turning dramatist was as surprising as
Emerson turned dramatist would have been to the America of anti-slavery days.

It was not, of course, because of an impulse from within that Mr. Russell attempted drama in
"Deirdre" (1902), but because the young enthusiasts of Ireland's national literary movement
wanted plays that should be at once native in quality and the work of writers of standing.
It did not seem a strange request to Cumann nan Gaedheal to ask Mr. Russell for a play. What
if he had never written a play? He was hardly in their estimation more of an amateur than Mr.
Yeats or Mr. Moore or Mr. Martyn, who had written plays for "The Irish Literary Theatre" that
had achieved success of a kind, and he was surely as ardent a Nationalist as any of these.
So he was asked for a play to be played at the Spring Festival of 1902 by the Irish National
Dramatic Company that was forming, and he did what he was asked to do, blocking it all out
in six hours, and finishing it sufficiently in three days for it to be put in rehearsal. It
was in the summer following its first presentation that I saw it again in rehearsal in a little
hall back of a produce shop in Dublin, and got to know Mr. Russell as playwright before I read
his play. One of the actors, himself maker of verses and plays, gave me his copy of "Deirdre,"
with cues marked. I had seen notices of its first performance in the Irish papers and I had
written Mr. Russell to see if I could get a copy, but he had not yet published it. Then he
wrote me of young poets I met this night in Dublin, and the names on the lips of the enthusiasts
we talked to, and their names were names Mr. Russell had written me of four months before.
Here were they introducing me to his work as he had thus introduced me to theirs: "There are
many poets here who write beautiful lyrics who are quite unknown out of Ireland because they
never collected them from the pages of obscure magazines.... I have seen many verses signed
'I.O,' 'Alice Milligan,' 'Ethna Carberry,' 'Oghma,' 'Paul Gregan,' which I enviously wish I
could claim as my own.... I think myself many of these unknown poets and poetesses write verses
which no living English writer could surpass." The best of the verses of some of these and
of others among his following Mr. Russell collected in "New Songs" (1904), which bore out much
that he claimed for them.

It was to six of these young poets he dedicated his last volume of verse, "The Divine Vision"
(1904), as he had dedicated his two earlier volumes to poet-mystics, "Homeward" (1894) to Mr.
Charles Weekes and "The Earth Breath" (1898) to Mr. Yeats. The young writers (for they were
almost all writers as well as actors) we met this Saturday night in Dublin, one and all, looked
to "A.E." as leader, and some of them looked to him as high priest of their cult, as seer of
that ancient type that combined as its functions the deliverance of religious dicta, prophecy,
and song. My thoughts went back to our Concord of half a century ago, yet I wondered was Emerson's
fascination as compelling as this.

It was in a commonplace-looking editorial sanctum that I found "A.E." on the following morning,
at 22, Lincoln Place, to which he had descended from his office in the Irish Agricultural Organization
Society, to edit "The Homestead" in its editor's absence. I was to see him, in the hour I was
to spend with him there, in many rôles. First was that of one of the beginners of the Irish
Literary Revival. He has himself given the credit to Mr. Standish James O'Grady for furnishing
the initial stimulus to the movement, in his "Heroic Period" and "Cuchulain and his Contemporaries"
of 1878 and 1880; but to "A.E." and Mr. Yeats and Dr. Hyde also is due much of the credit.
Mr. Russell said that when he came up to Dublin, a boy from Lurgan, there was no independent
thought in Dublin, but now he thought there was a good deal, and he and his fellows of the
Hermetic Society, he took mild pride in believing, had had something to do with the change.
Even then, as a boy, he could not read most English literature, and so he took to reading the
literature of the East, the Bhagavad-Gîta and the Sufis. From his reading of these, with other
young men that somehow found each other out, came the Hermetic Society, at whose meetings everything
mystic from the Upanishads to Thomas Taylor was discussed. From the study of the universal,
he said, they came at last to the national, to the study of the ancient folk-lore and stories
of their people, which, had it not been for the Danes and Normans, would have been shaped into
literary form long before now, when, he said, they were only being so shaped.

His disciples had told me the night before that "A.E." had helped them much in the National
Dramatic Company, painting scenery for them, designing costumes, and aiding in a hundred other
ways. He was silent about these matters and not very proud of the play. "Of course," he said,
"I was very familiar with the story of Deirdre, and I had thought of its dramatic effectiveness,
but I knew nothing of the stage and I was very much surprised it went so well." That it went
well, I, who had seen it but the night before, could testify, though that rehearsal could give
but a suggestion of the beautiful stage pictures it presents when played in the costume of
the Heroic Age. Despite its intensely dramatic situations, it is, however, essentially a decorative
rather than a dramatic play, and its exalted prose is seldom true dramatic speech. But you
carry from it the memory of beautiful pictures, and a feeling that something noble has passed
your way, to enter into and become a part of you.

As we were talking of the "movement," in came a young Roscommon landlord, and with him another
of its phases and my discovery of Mr. Russell, man of business, organizer of the Irish Agricultural
Organization Society. The talk was now of the erection of a hall, and Mr. Russell seemed as
familiar with stone and lime and sand as with mysticism and poetry, which we had discussed,
and with painting, which we were considering in a few minutes, when Mr. J.B. Yeats, Jr., arrived,
to talk over an exhibition of his pictures to be held in Dublin the following week. A few days
later I was reading Mr. Russell's review of Mr. Yeats's pictures, but before I left 22, Lincoln
Place, I had a mental picture of "art critic" added to the already long list of titles after
"A.E.'s" name, and I had still another evidence of his impressiveness. Mr. J.B. Yeats, Sr.,
his son said, would be around to have Mr. Russell sit for him next morning, in order to get
on with the two orders he had of portraits of the mystic, one of them from an admirer in America.
It was pleasant on leaving him to go away with his laugh ringing in my ears as a surety that
the high seriousness of his purpose, and the higher seriousness with which some of his admirers
take him, had not dulled his sense of humor.

Eight o'clock the next evening saw us in the eminently Philistine suburban street where was
the little house of conventional exterior that sheltered the high dreams of "the Irish Emerson."
Once entered, his embodied visions attract you from all four walls of the study. Piles of them
in corners make you wonder is Mrs. Russell a saint. The pictures are of Irish landscape; of
"the Other People"; of heroes and heroines of Ireland's prehistoric days; of souls that have
yet to be born; of souls that have passed through incarnation after incarnation, never to rise
above an animal existence; of souls whose every rebirth has taken them to higher spirituality,
and that now wait to pass along the "path of liberation" into that immortality from which they
shall never be born again. These visions have come to him, as the visions whose presence he
records in his poetry, in all places--as he left the office and looked down the sun-gilded
streets at close of day; as he wandered in the mountains under the stars with peasants who
had "second sight"; as he talked with fellow Hermetists in meeting-rooms in back streets whose
shabby interiors grew rosy gloom as the talk turned on mysteries.

To us Mr. Russell talked much, talked kindly of all men, talked well of many things, said startling
things of society and art and poetry so gently that you did not think until afterwards that
in another you would hold them gages of combat. I can hear him yet, as I sat and tried at the
same time to listen to him and to look at his flaming-hearted spirits with luminous angel wings
and flashing halos enveloped in an atmosphere in which "the peacock twilight rays aloft its
plumes and blooms of shadowy fire"--I can hear him saying, "You can't read Shakespeare, can
you?" As I thought over this question later, I understood. Then I was too far rapt by the pictures
to wonder at it greatly. Later came to mind Emerson's declaration that Homer, Milton, and Shakespeare
"do not fully content us," that the "heavenly bread" is to be found in Zoroaster, Plato, St.
John, and Menu. Both Emerson and Mr. Russell fail to use art as the standard. To the mystic,
to whom this world is not reality, what appeal may have its seeming truths and shows as compared
to the certain truth of the idealists and the beauties of the eternal life? The deep human
knowledge, the great pageants of Shakespeare's kings and queens, are but "glories of our blood
and state ... shadows, not substantial things."

Mr. Russell talked very simply of his pictures, of how their subjects came to him, and of his
enjoyment in thus recording them. He does not consider himself a painter, but he thinks there
was the making of a painter in him had he had instruction in his earlier years. This attitude
towards his various powers, as well as the attitude towards him of ardent young countrymen
of his, came out in a story he told us of a boy that he found waiting for him one night at
a street corner near his home. The boy timidly asked him was he not Mr. Russell, and then walked
silently by his side until the house was reached. They entered and the boy mustered up courage
to say he had waited for him two hours at the head of the street. "A.E." had been waiting for
the boy to say what brought him, but he was obliged to encourage the boy before he would out
with it. Said "A.E.," "You came here to talk with me. You must be interested in one of the
three interests I have given much time to. Is it economics?" "No," replied the boy, indignantly.
"Is it mysticism?" continued "A.E." "No," cried the boy, almost angry at such an interest being
attributed to him. "It must be literary art, then?" "Yes," said the boy, with a sigh, his haven
reached at last. "A.E." soon found the boy an exquisite who thought the literary movement was
becoming vulgarized through so many people becoming interested in it. Finally the boy turned
questioner and found that "A.E." was seeking the Absolute. Having found this out, he again
sighed, this time regretfully, and said decidedly that "A.E." could not be his Messiah, as
he abhorred the Absolute above everything else. He was infected with Pater's Relative, said
Mr. Russell, "which has fallen like a blight on all English literature." So the boy--he was
not yet twenty-one--went out into the night with, I suppose, another of his idols fallen.

As this boy came to "A.E.," so come scores of others, and most of those that have real troubles
go away comforted, to return for advice and counsel and friendship, as their need is. This
I knew before I met "A.E.," and his kindness I felt and certain magnetism, but the qualities
that make him the leader of men, and hierophant to his personal following, do not lie on the
surface to be quickly distinguished by every comer. Neither, we are told, did Emerson's, who
was leader of men and hierophant. I thought often of "A.E.'s" pictures as I looked at the pictures
of Watts in the Tate Gallery in London, and I have thought more often of them since I have
come to know haloed Rosicrucian drawings and strange symbols in such books as our own Wissahickon
mystics, Kelpius and his brethren, brought with them to "The Woman in the Wilderness" from
Germany late in the seventeenth century. How notable the impression of Mr. Russell's paintings
and visions upon two Irish writers the English-speaking world reads to-day may be learned from
their exploitation in Mr. Stephen Gwynn's "The Old Knowledge" (1901), whose Owen Conroy owes
being to "A.E." and his pictures, and from Mr. George Moore's "Evelyn Innes" (revised edition,
1901), whose Ulick Dean has his appearance and his power of seeing visions.

As the evening wore on, Mr. Russell picked up a manuscript collection of poems--that we were
to have two years later as "The Divine Vision"--and read us several. Most distinctly of these
I remember "Reconciliation" which he chanted most lovingly of all he read. It is a poem I do
not pretend to understand in detail, but I do feel its drift, and I can never read out its
stately music, or even read it silently, without hearing his sonorous chanting. Many of his
poems are like this poem in that you must content yourself with their general drift and not
insist on understanding their every phrase. I suppose to the initiate mystic they are more
definite, but I doubt whether some of them are more than presentations of emotions that need
not be translated into terms of thought for their desired effect.

To Mr. Russell poetry is a high and holy thing; like his friend Mr. Yeats he is at one with
Spenser in believing it the fruit of a "certain enthousiasmos and celestial inspiration"; it
is his religion that Mr. Russell is celebrating in his verses, many of which are in a sense
hymns to the Universal Spirit, and all of which are informed by such sincerity that you do
not wonder that his followers make them their gospel. In his own words:--

     The spirit in man is not a product of nature, but antecedes nature,
     and is above it as sovereign, being of the very essence of that
     spirit which breathed on the face of the waters, and whose song,
     flowing from the silence as an incantation, summoned the stars into
     being out of chaos. To regain that spiritual consciousness, with
     its untrammelled ecstasy, is the hope of every mystic. That ecstasy
     is the poetic passion.... The act which is inspired by the Holy
     Breath must needs speak of things which have no sensuous existence,
     of hopes all unearthly, and fires of which the colors of day are
     only shadows.

About a score of the less than tenscore poems of "A.E." are definitely declarations of belief,
but declarations so personal, so undogmatic, that you would hardly write him down a didactic
poet at first reading "A New Theme" tells of his desertion of subjects "that win the easy praise,"
of his venturing

           "in the untrodden woods
  To carve the future ways."

Here he acknowledges that the things he has to tell are "shadowy," that his breath in "the
magic horn" can make but feeble murmurs. In the prologue to "The Divine Vision" he states the
conditions of his inspiration:--

  "When twilight over the mountains fluttered
  And night with its starry millions came,
  I too had dreams: the songs I have uttered
  Came from this heart that was touched by the flame";--

that is, the flame of his being that, "mad for the night and the deep unknown," leaps back
to the "unphenomenal" world whence his spirit came and blends his spirit into one with the
Universal Spirit. This same union through the soul's flame "A.E." presents in his pictures,
and in his prologue to "The Divine Vision" he writes that he wishes to give his reader

  "To see one elemental pain,
  One light of everlasting joy."

This elemental pain, as I take it, is the pain of the soul shut up in its robe of clay in this
physical, phenomenal world, and so shut off from the spiritual world, the world of the unphenomenal
or unknowable. The "everlasting joy" I take to be the certainty of eventual union with the
Universal Spirit in the unphenomenal world, a union and a joy anticipated in the occasional
temporary absorptions of the soul into the Universal Spirit in moments Emerson experienced
as "revelation" and Plotinus as ecstasy.

"A.E.'s" friend, Mr. Charles Johnston, records the two young Irishmen's joint attempts to attain
ecstasy, when he writes of those days when "we lay on our backs in the grass, and, looking
up into the blue, tried to think ourselves into that new world which we had suddenly discovered
ourselves to inhabit." Do not think this ecstasy too rare and wonderful a thing. To Plotinus
it meant an utter blotting-out of self, a rapture of peace, and to Mr. Russell it frequently
means that he is entirely "heart-hidden from the outer things," but I suspect it means sometimes
mere lift of the heart through lungs full of fresh air, or through green fields for tired eyes,
or through mountain air for worn nerves, or through skies thick-sown with stars for the vexed
spirit.

The typical poem of "A.E." is that in which the sight of beautiful things of this phenomenal
world in which we live lifts his soul to participation in the Universal Spirit. Some reasons
are not far to seek. From sunset to sunrise the poet is free as he may be from the treadmill
of the "common daily ways," and the high moods he tries to express are most easily symbolized
by skyey images--massed clouds and sweeping lights of diamond, sapphire, amethyst; the still
blue black of heaven thrilling with far stars; the purples of twilight horizons.

How important the symbol is to "A.E."--as important as it is to Emerson--may be gathered from
"Symbolism," which, read in the light of what I have quoted, needs, I hope, no further interpretation.

  "Now when the giant in us wakes and broods,
  Filled with home-yearnings, drowsily he flings
  From his deep heart high dreams and mystic moods.
  Mixed with the memory of the loved earth things:
  Clothing the vast with a familiar face;
  Reaching his right hand forth to greet the starry race.

  Wondrously near and clear the great warm fires
  Stare from the blue; so shows the cottage light
  To the field laborer whose heart desires
  The old folk by the nook, the welcome bright
  From the housewife long parted from at dawn--
  So the star villages in God's great depths withdrawn.

  "Nearer to Thee, not by delusion led,
  Though there no house-fires burn nor bright eyes gaze:
  We rise, but by the symbol charioted,
  Through loved things rising up to Love's own ways:
  By these the soul unto the vast has wings
  And sets the seal celestial on all mortal things."

In this poem is the proof of how intimately "A.E." could write of the sweet things of earth
did he so choose. But he does not so choose, except rarely, and sometimes he leaves out the
statement of beautiful material things by which he customarily bids farewell to earth in his
aspiration to spiritual things, and writes only of unearthly things--as of some girl that he,
an Irishman living in the Dublin of to-day, loves in the Babylon of three thousand years ago,
to the annihilation of space and time. This is written in the very spirit of Emerson's declaration
that "before the revelations of the soul, Time, Space, and Nature shrink away." Need I quote
further to show that "A.E.," like Emerson, holds that the true poet is he who "gives men glimpses
of the law of the Universe; shows them the circumstance as illusion; shows that Nature is only
a language to express the laws, which are grand and beautiful; and lets them, by his songs,
into some of the realities"? Emerson yearns that "the old forgotten splendors of the Universe
should glow again for us," and "A.E." believes that we at times attain "the high ancestral
Self"; his restless ploughman, "walking through the woodland's purple" under "the diamond night"

  "Deep beneath his rustic habit finds himself a King"

"A.E.'s" poems on death are little different from those in which he celebrates the soul's absorption
into the Universal Spirit, since death means to him only a longer absorption into the Universal
Spirit or sometimes such absorption forever. In the event of this last, he in some moods sees

  "Life and joy forever vanish as a tale is told.
  Lost within the 'Mother's Being,'"

or no sense of individuality in souls in heaven; in other moods he sees individuality preserved
after death among those "High souls," that,--

  "Absolved from grief and sin,
  Leaning from out ancestral spheres,
  Beckon the wounded spirit in."

So sustained is the habitual altitude of Mr. Russell's thought, so preoccupied his mood with
spiritual things, that the human reader must feel lonely at times, must feel the regions of
the poet's thought alien to him. At such times it is a positive relief to find the poet yearning
for the concrete sweet things of earth. It is perhaps only in "Weariness" that Mr. Russell's
high mood does fail, but I rejoice when that failure makes him acknowledge--

  "Fade the heaven-assailing moods:
  Slave to petty tasks I pine
  For the quiet of the woods,
  And the sunlight seems divine.

  "And I yearn to lay my head
  Where the grass is green and sweet;
  Mother, all the dreams are fled
  From the tired child at thy feet."

It is love, love of country, love of countryside, and love of woman that he writes of when
he does write of "loved earth things." "A Woman's Voice" and "Forgiveness" are poems so simple
that none may misunderstand; they have the human call so rare in "A.E.," but it is not a strong
human call. Of such love songs he has written but few--poems out of the peace and not out of
the passion of love; of passion other than spiritual ecstasy and rapt delight in nature there
is none in his verse. Although he has been given "a ruby-flaming heart," he has been given
also "a pure cold spirit." Only about a fourth of his poems have the human note dominant, and
even when it is so dominant, as when he writes of his country, he is very seldom content to
rest with a description of the beauty of place or legend; the beautiful place must be threshold
to the Other World, as "The Gates of Dreamland," which he finds at the end of "the lonely road
through bogland to the lake at Carrowmore," Carrowmore, the great cemetery of the great dead
of prehistoric Ireland under Knocknarea near Sligo; or the legend must be symbol of some mystic
belief--"Connla's well is a Celtic equivalent of the First Fountain of mysticism."

In "In Connemara" and "An Irish Face," poems with earthly titles, you expect only things earthly,
but in these too, he uses the picture of the concrete only as the symbol of the universal.
The reason Mr. Russell must take you to the supernatural in these poems is because he sees
spirits everywhere he goes in Ireland. Start "The Memory of Earth" and you think you are to
read one of the many fine poems of twilight in our literature, but the fourth line undeceives
you:--

  "In the wet dusk silver sweet,
  Down the violet-scented ways,
  As I moved with quiet feet
  I was met by mighty days.

  "On the hedge the hanging dew
  Glassed the eve and stars and skies;
  While I gazed a madness grew
  Into thundered battle-cries.

  "Where the hawthorn glimmered white,
  Flashed the spear and fell the stroke--
  Ah, what faces pale and bright
  Where the dazzling battle broke!

  "There a hero-hearted queen
  With young beauty lit the van.
  Gone! the darkness flowed between
  All the ancient wars of man.

  "While I paced the valley's gloom
  Where the rabbits pattered near,
  Shone a temple and a tomb
  With the legend carven clear.

  "Time put by a myriad fates
  That her day might dawn in glory;
  Death made wide a million gates
  So to close her tragic story."

And so it is in "A.E.'s" score and more poems that are suggested by Irish places and Irish
legends and Irish loves.

A man that believes that his spirit is one with the Universal Spirit cannot but be an optimist
if he believe that Spirit is the Spirit of Good, and that a Platonist must believe. Yet "A.E."
so longs to be rapt into everlasting union with the Universal Spirit that he tires of the earth,
where that union is interrupted by the necessities of daily life. The fairies call to him and
he would away--

  "'Come away,' the red lips whisper, 'all the world is weary now;
  'Tis the twilight of the ages and it's time to quit the plough.
  Oh, the very sunlight's weary ere it lightens up the dew,
  And its gold is changed and faded before it falls to you.'"

But it is not always twilight to him, and there are many blither moods. Over against these
lines you may put,

  "I always dwell with morning in my heart,"

and

  "Oh, but life is sweet, is sweet."

Earth is not an unhappy place, but he sighs sometimes for the happiness unalloyed of heaven.

When we come to consider the technique of Mr. Russell's art, we find him anything but Emersonian.
Mr. Russell has, in general, command of form, melody, harmony, distinction. Who reads carefully
will remember many fine lines; who reads only once will be as one lost in sun-filled fog like
that of "A E.'s" own Irish mountains, but he should be patient, he should wait and look again
and again, and finally he will see, even if earth be still dimmed with fogbanks, much of the
heavens, free of fog, and radiant with cold white light.

           "Forest glooms
  Rumorous of old romance"

and

  "But joy as an Arctic sun went down"

the kind of lines rarest in his verse; more characteristic are,

  "Hearts like cloisters dim and grey,"

                  "the great star swings
  Along the sapphire zone,"

  "The Angel childhood of the earth,"

  "Glint the bubble planets tossing in the dead black sea of night,"

  "The old enchantment lingers in the honey heart of earth."

There are comparatively few "purple patches" in Mr. Russell's poetry, for the reasons that
each poem depends for its chief appeal on one mood or thought or dream immanent in it, rather
than on any fine phrasing. The effort to catch the meaning of the verse--seldom apparent at
first glance--prevents the noting of as many purple lines as there are. Nor when noted are
such lines readily memorable, since they are apt to lack association with known and loved things
to bring them home to the reader. And again the poems are very short,--intimations, suggestions
rather than expressions,--and their intangible themes are often much alike, and poem becomes
confused with poem in the memory.

It may be that to those to whom the Other World is very instant, as it is to many Irishmen,
or to those that go about daily preparing for the world beyond the grave, as did our Puritan
ancestors of the seventeenth century, these poems of Mr. Russell's speak familiar language,
as they of a certainty do to the mystic, but to the many modern art lovers who hold to Pater's
"New Cyrenaicism,"--as Mr. Russell would say, "those under the blight of the Relative,"--as
well as to the man in the street their language is new and difficult to understand. But the
poems have found their audience--there is no doubt about that--and they are regarded as oracular
by hundreds. This is the more curious in that there is so little personality in them, surprisingly
little when one knows how strong is the personality of the man that made them But this lack
of personality follows naturally on the mystic's creed--he must put into his writings chiefly
his relation with God,--for all other relations are as nothing to that,--and if he attain his
desire he is rapt away from himself and his fellows into oneness with God.

Quality, a very definite quality, these verses of Mr. Russell's have, but it is an almost unchanging
sameness of quality; almost all his verses, as I have said, have the same theme. So there is
a monotony about them, and their reader is apt to cry out that mysticism is inimical to art.
It may well be that this unswerving following of one theme is of definite purpose; that Mr.
Russell feels that he as Irishman and mystic has a mission, as indeed Mr. Charles Johnston
owns. Speaking of Irishmen, in "Ireland" (1902), he says,--

     We live in the invisible world. If I rightly understand our mission
     and our destiny, it is this: To restore to other men the sense of
     that invisible; that world of our immortality; as of old our race
     went forth carrying the Galilean Evangel. We shall first learn and
     then teach, that not with wealth can the soul of man be satisfied;
     that our enduring interest is not here but there, in the unseen,
     the hidden, the immortal, for whose purposes exist all the visible
     beauties of the world. If this be our mission and our purpose,
     well may our fair mysterious land deserve her name: Inis Fail, the
     Isle of Destiny.

Very like Emerson this, too, but very Irish. Let us not forget that Berkeley and Scotus Erigena
were Irishmen.

I do not wish to overemphasize the influence of Emerson on "A.E.," and indeed it is no greater
than Emerson's influence over M. Maeterlinck. I believe Emerson was as much guide as master,
that he pointed "A.E." the way to the mystics. I might dwell on the resemblance between thoughts
common to the two much more than I have--there are even lines of the younger man's that show
the influence of lines of the elder. But that is not my object. I wish to point out that Puritanism
in Ireland has flowered up into the mystic poetry of "A.E.," into poetry of that strange quality,
cold ecstasy, as Puritanism in America has flowered up into the mystic poetry of Emerson, poetry
of cold ecstasy. In England, so far as I know, Puritanism, that has given us so great a poet
as Milton, has never so flowered. Crashaw was born of a Puritan father, but it was through
the Old Faith his greatest inspiration came, and his ecstasy, as that of his latter-day disciple,
Francis Thompson, is warm ecstasy, not cold like that of the two Puritan poets. Henry More,
Platonist and seer of visions, never attained ecstasy in his poetry. It may be that it required
transplantation of Englishmen into Ireland and into America to bring about this phenomenon.
Nor is it the only quality these two earliest bodies of English colonists alike developed.
But it is more than dangerous to dogmatize where so many races went to the making of a people
as went to the making of Anglo-Irishmen and Americans.

How different are the types of Anglo-Irish I could not but ponder as we left "A E.'s" home
and went out into the chill rain of that August night. To the right hand, as we walked with
"A.E.'s" disciples, they pointed to Maud Gonne's house. "Irish Joan of Arc" they call her,
leader of men whom men worship at first sight; most exciting of Ireland's mob orators, all
proclaim her, a very Pytho whose prophecies stir unrest and tumult! And here next door the
Quietist, the man of dreams and visions, to whom all the war of the world is of as little moment
as all other unrealities, since here in this world he has begun already the real, the spiritual
life. Both are types that have been as long as Ireland has been; both Pytho and priest were
among the high order of druid and druidess of old time; agitator and reconciler, by Mr. Russell's
belief, might well be reincarnations of the wise women and wise men of prehistoric days. To
the world Maud Gonne is more representative of Ireland than Mr. Russell, but he is just as
truly a symbol of Ireland as she: to those who know Irish history the thought of her quiet
monasteries of the seventh century, whence she sent out teachers to all of Europe, is as recurrent
as her political agitation of the nineteenth, and to those who know her countryside the memories
of soft sunny rains and moonlit evenings are as lingering as those of black angry days and
wild blind nights. Her very colors, her grays and greens and purples, proclaim her peace. It
is of this peace and of the greater peace of that unphenomenal or spiritual world, that lies
nearer to Ireland than to any Western land, that Mr. Russell is interpreter.

You may think of Mr. Russell as you will, as organizer of the Irish Agricultural Organization
Society, as stimulator of the Irish Literary Revival, as economist, playwright, poet, painter,
preacher, but always as you put by his books you will think of him as mystic, as stargazer,
wandering, as he so often tells us in his poems, on the mountains by night, with his eyes keener
with wonder at the skies than ever shepherd's under the Star of Bethlehem; you will see him,
the human atom, on the bare Dublin mountains, thrilling as he watches the sweep of world beyond
world; and yet, atom that he is, the possessor of it all;--you will think of him as stargazer
whose "spirit rolls into the vast of God."

CHAPTER VI

LADY GREGORY

When one stops to think how much of the blood of the Gael, Irish and Scotch, there is in us
in America, one realizes that we owe a debt of gratitude to Lady Gregory second only to that
owed her by "The Men of Ireland and Alban" themselves. For it is Lady Gregory, in her "Cuchulain
of Muirthemne" (1902) and in her "Gods and Fighting Men" (1904) and in her "Book of Saints
and Wonders" (1908), who has done more than any other writer of the Gaelic countries to bring
home to us the wonders of Gaelic romance. That they should have to be brought home to us is
a shame to us. With so much of Irish and Scotch blood in us the names of the heroes of the
Red Branch and Fenian Cycles should not be so foreign in aspect and sound as they undoubtedly
are, and their deeds should be as familiar as those of Robin Hood. A hundred years ago our
grandfathers had, indeed, "Ossian" on their shelves, as we had in boyhood Dean Church's stories
of Greece and Rome, or, in some cases, the stories of his doings in their memories, learned
from their parents were they old-country born, or of their nurses were it their privilege,
as it was that of many more Americans of the second half of the nineteenth century, to have
as foster mothers "kindly Irish of the Irish."

To her own countrymen the work of Lady Gregory, valuable as it is, is not the revelation it
is to us. Those of them that have not been brought up on the stories that she translates could
read at least many of them in the "Old Celtic Romances" (1879) of Dr. P.W. Joyce, or in the
versions of the Cuchulain and the Finn legends by Mr. Standish James O'Grady (1878 and 1880),
books that somehow or other never came to be widely read in America. Mr. Yeats admits it was
Mr. O'Grady that "started us all," that is, the writers who began the Renaissance in the late
eighties. It may be, of course, that the added beauty and dignity the stories take on in the
versions of Lady Gregory will inspire to nobler writing poets and dramatists and novelists
that already owe much to Mr. O'Grady or Dr. Joyce or to the scholars they were sent back to
by these popularizers. It is certain that the writers of the younger group, the group of those
that are only now nearing distinction, owe much to Lady Gregory. After all is said, however,
her work is to be judged not for its value to others, but as in itself an art product, of a
class kindred to "The Wanderings of Oisin" of Mr. Yeats, although differing in form. I am not
forgetting, of course, that she is following faithfully, or rather as faithfully as an artist
may follow, the old legends. She has, she owns, clarified them, condensed them, left out contradictory
episodes, woven now and then a Scotch version of an incident into a cycle arranged in one complete
whole from many Irish versions. When Lady Gregory has owned this she has owned that she has
added something more of her own than a "connecting sentence." Although she has labored carefully
to keep herself out of the stories, and although, if you have read only her versions of them,
you may feel that she has succeeded in keeping herself out of them, you will recognize, if
you turn to her originals in O'Curry or in Whitley Stokes or in Standish Hayes O'Grady, that
she has added that all-important thing, a personality. Some scholars object to this as "too
literary." And some literary men would rather have the old stories, they say, "just as they
are" There is the crux. How can we get them, even in an exact translation, "just as they are"?
We cannot. This is not the place to discuss this most vexed question of translation, but I
must go into it so far as to point again to the fact that we are more likely to have made upon
us, by an interpretative translation, an effect more nearly like that made upon the listener
contemporary to the time of the making of the story than if the translation were literal. We
are always forgetting the so obvious fact that the kind of metaphor or descriptive epithet
of this sort or that, which would make a certain effect on the listener of the tenth century,
will make a very different effect on the reader of to-day. As Lady Gregory points out, the
description of the contortion of Cuchulain in his fight with Ferdiad seems very unheroic to
us, and is therefore best left out of the translation, or, if retained, conveyed in terms that
will make an effect on us similar to the effect the detailed description had on the audience
of the old bards. Here again, however, is trouble. How can we get that effect? We cannot surely,
but an imaginative translation by one who is scholar and littérateur both will take us nearest
to it. We want, as a matter of fact, both kinds of translations, the interpretative and artistic
translation of Lady Gregory and the literal translation of Mr. Standish Hayes O'Grady. The
one is needed to check the other. We would have a gauge by which to measure how much such such
a translator as Lady Gregory has taken from and added to the old story. We would know how great
is the freedom in which we willingly acquiesce, remembering that the translations which we
treasure as great in literature are in greater or less measure "free." So checking Lady Gregory's
translations we find that they represent a fair measure of freedom, as so checking the verses
of FitzGerald's "Omar Khayyám" we find in them the utmost measure of freedom, a freedom indeed
that, in certain verses, is virtually a re-creation.

Many, both scholars and literary men, object to the kind of English into which Lady Gregory
translates the stories of Ireland's heroic age, her "Kiltartan English," the English of the
people of her home country on the borders of Clare and Galway, the English made by a people
who think in Irish. This familiar language, they say, has lessened the dignity of the old tales,
bringing them all to one level by a diction and style that is one, whether they are romance
or folk-tale. This objection can be taken, however, only to the Cuchulain stories, which were
court romance, and not to the Finn stories, which come out of the thatched houses. This "Kiltartan
English" seems to me in its more familiar moments, less imposing than that in which I first
heard stories of Finn McCool told by our old gardener, Lawrence Kelly of County Wexford, but
it may be I remember less clearly the homeliness of his "discourse" than its "grand speaking."
It is, however, as peasant English, a fitting medium for the telling of the stories of Brigit
and St. Patrick in her "Book of Saints and Wonders," for Brigit and Patrick are still household
words among all the children of the Gael. But by its very difference from the English of all
other artists in words save of a few of her own country and generation, and from such conversational
English as I know well, this "Kiltartan English" brings me a foreign quality. I feel that the
art of these tale-tellers is an art of another race than the English, just as I feel that the
art of the teller of Beowulf is an art of another race than the English. The literature in
our ancestral tongue is not to me English until it sloughs off the Germanic sentence-structure
of Anglo-Saxon. Here lies, I think, the greatest difficulty in translating Old English literature.
And it will not be successfully translated, I think, without the use of the syntax of some
dialect that preserves an archaic sentence-structure.

To me, then, it seems singularly fortunate for Lady Gregory to have her "Kiltartan English"
to fall back upon to give that foreign flavor that we intuitively feel the need of in a translation.
There may be a slight loss of dignity through its use, but there is a great gain in folk atmosphere.

In quoting to show the style of Lady Gregory I should quote description rather than narrative,
as the description seems to me better as well as briefer. The three famous tales of Old Irish
literature, "The Three Sorrows of Story-Telling," are "The Fate of the Children of Usnach,"
comparable, in the great wars it led to, to the rape of Helen; "The Fate of the Children of
Lir," a story that has as its base the folk-tale that underlies "Lohengrin," but which takes
us back farther into the past in its kinship to "Medea"; and "The Sons of Tuireann," which
has been called the Irish Odyssey. Of these the first is incomparably the finest story, and
Lady Gregory has told it nobly in "Cuchulain of Muirthemne," but it alone of all the stories
in her three books of translations has enough of humanity in it to put it side by side with
the story of Sigurd and Brunhilde or the story of Paris and Helen. When one remembers that
Greek and Scandinavian literature may boast five stories each, at least, but little short of
these their greatest stories, and that Irish literature has but "Diarmuid and Grania" to boast
as in any way comparable to the story of Deirdre, it must be admitted that early Irish literature
representing Ireland's heroic age is not so beautiful as the literature that represents the
heroic ages of Scandinavia and Greece. "The Fate of the Children of Usnach" is rich in beautiful
detail of incident and of description of nature; it preserves for us much of the inner life
of old time; and it has dignity of proportion. It has not the fundamental weakness, as great
art, of most of these old Irish stories, their characters' lack of interest because of their
lack of body, their lack of personality, their running to type rather than moulding into individuals;
yet the feats performed by Cuchulain are so wholly superhuman, most of them, that they often
put their doer beyond our sympathy, and at their worst make him absurd.

If these stories were simply extravagant folk-fancy, such as the Jack the Giant Killer story,
to delight children, we should not quarrel with this quality in them, but there is so much
in them of dignity that we must take them seriously, as we take Homer. When their heroes are
definitely gods we can accept almost any of their deeds, so we can delight in the earlier stories
of "Gods and Fighting Men," the stories of the Tuatha de Danaan, Lugh and Angus, Midhir and
Etain, Bran and Connla, as we cannot in those of Finn and Goll and Cuchulain and Conchubar,
who, because of their historical setting and more definite characterization, have more of the
appeal of humanity. We know Cuchulain, in Lady Gregory's pages, as a small dark man, constant
in love in comparison with his fellows, faithful to his friends, loyal to his king; and we
know Finn as a fair old man of ruddy countenance, a lover of women, somewhat pompous and somewhat
quarrelsome; but neither hero is a clear-cut personality like Sigurd or Ajax. If either Cuchulain
or Finn were surely a god we should accept his deeds as now we cannot accept them, and were
either brought home to us as wholly human and divested of his supernatural powers, and given
a personality, we should be far more moved by his fortunes.

It is in enchantments, visits to worlds oversea and under wave, and in praises of the beauties
of this world, its woods, its waters, its real wonders, and in the celebration of sorrow and
delight that "Gods and Fighting Men" is at its best, not in the celebration of happy loves,
or of wild loves, or of great victories. So it is that Gabhra, where the Fianna were broken,
is finer than "The Battle of the White Strand," where they won against great odds.

Finer, however, than any narrative power possessed by the old Irish bards is their power in
the lyrical passages so freely interspersed throughout the stories, and in the lyrics that
come into them on the lips of the poets and warriors and on the lips of the women who have
lost their lovers in fight. The farewell of Deirdre to Alban and her lament over Naoise, the
song of the woman from oversea to Bran, the poem Finn made to prove his power of poetry, the
sleepy song of Grania over Diarmuid, the lament of Neargach's wife, the song of Tir-nan-Og
that Niave made to Oisin, and Oisin's own praise of the good times of the Fianna--these are
the passages in which the old tales reach their highest poetry. Once read, these remain in
memory, but certain episodes and certain sayings remain also. Mr. Yeats has picked out one
of the sayings in his introduction to "Gods and Fighting Men" that will do for sample. It is
the answer of Osgar dying, to the man who asks him how he is: "I am as you would have me be."
Starker even, perhaps, is the absolute simplicity of the description of that last fight in
"The Battle of the White Strand," in which Cael and Finnachta go, locked in each other's arms,
to their death under the waves without a word.

Wild nature is always about these warriors. The storm in the trees, the sorrow of the sea,
the clatter of wild geese and the singing of swans find echo in the poems that praise them.
We see, too, at times, fields heavy with harvest, and often the apple trees in bloom and the
cuckoo calling among them,--indeed, the sweet scent of apple gardens, like the keenness of
the winds of spring, beautiful as are the phrases that present them, become almost stock phrases.
Always, too, there are wonders of the other world about the heroes; women from undersea and
underground come into their halls as naturally as the members of their own clans, and the twilight
mists unfolding from familiar hills will reveal their marvelous duns, whitewalled with silver
or marble, and thatched with the wings of white birds.

There has been frequent quarreling in certain quarters with Mr. Russell and Mr. Johnston and
Mr. Yeats for introducing mysticism and a definite symbolism and the ways of Eastern thought
into their versions of Irish mythic tales and their records of Irish mood. There will be found
some justification for such practices in Lady Gregory's translations. Manannan, the sea-god,
is here presented doing tricks like those of the East Indian fakirs; Finn is reincarnated in
later great leaders of the Gael; and in "The Hospitality of Cuanna's House" there is out-and-out
allegory, to say nothing of a possible symbolistic interpretation of episodes in almost every
other story. Even the willful obscurity of the modern poetry can be paralleled by the riddling
of Cuchulain and Emer.

It is, perhaps, because Lady Gregory has found the old stories not only in the dignity of their
bardic presentation, but also in the happy familiarity of their telling by the people of the
thatched houses in her own district, that she has been able to bring them so near to us. From
these same people, too, she has got some of her stories of St. Bride and Columba and poems
and stories of recent and contemporary inspiration, poems and stories that have to do with
humble life as well as with the highly colored heroic life that those who live bare lives themselves
are so fond of imagining. In her "Poets and Dreamers" (1903) are records of this collecting
and of her study of local ways about Coole and on the Connemara coast and in the Aran Isles.
One of the most interesting of her chapters is that on the poet Raftery, whose poems Dr. Hyde
has published. Blind and bitter, Raftery wandered about Connacht until about 1840, when death
took him, an old man, but still vigorous in mind and spirit. Another chapter of "Poets and
Dreamers" is "On the Edge of the World." Each reading of this is to me like a return to West
Ireland, the very quality of whose life it gives. It should be the first chapter of the book
turned to by the reader, for it gives one the note on which to read all. As Lady Gregory drives
by the sea, people about her on the roadside and in the cabins are singing in Irish. The little
experiences of the day are, for them, experiences to brood over; and for her, too.

There is creative writing in these essays of Lady Gregory's, for all that she is playing middleman
between her people and the reading public of the English-speaking world in many of them; and,
as I would emphasize again, in her three books of translations. But, after all translation
will not content, and the essay that is not self-revelation will not content, the writer who
would have his writing a "reading of life." So it is not surprising that Lady Gregory turned
toward drama. And yet I do not ever feel, after many readings of her plays, that Lady Gregory
took to drama because of any overmastering impulse toward this most difficult of all literary
forms. She has learned to handle some orders of drama pleasantly, the farce more than pleasantly,
and, very recently, the folk-tragedy nobly; but had it not been that plays of other than romantic
tone were needed for the Abbey Theatre as a foil to those of Mr. Yeats and of Synge, I doubt
whether it is drama that Lady Gregory would have chosen as the medium through which to express
her reading of life. I can just as well imagine her shrewd kindliness of judgment upon the
foibles and virtues of her countrymen in stories whose form is very like that employed by Miss
Barlow in her "Irish Idylls" (1892) as in these so original little plays that she has wrought
out without precedent, under the tutelage of Mr. Yeats.

It is more than likely, as I say, that had it not been that drama was needed for the Abbey
Theatre she would not have attempted drama. But more than likely it is, too, that had she written
plays not made to order they had reached wider through Irish society and plumbed deeper into
Irish life. Lady Gregory knows Irish life, from bottom to top, as few Irishwomen and few Irishmen
of her day know it; she has large heart, wide tolerance, and abounding charity; and yet she
was long content to limit her plays of modern Ireland to farce, at times of a serious enough
purpose, but because it is farce, not of the first seriousness. It may be, of course, that
Lady Gregory knows best of any one her own powers, and it is true that in the plays she has
written she is at her best when they are at their merriest. I cannot, however, but feel that
this is a success of intention rather than a success of instinct. She would have them the most
successful in a quality as far removed as might be from that quality of troubled dreaminess
which is the best of the dramas of Mr. Yeats. Synge, it must be remembered, did not begin as
a writer of comedy, and there is little of that ripe irony that has no precedent in English
literature in that first play that he wrote for the Abbey Theatre, "Riders to the Sea" (1903).
Is it a coincidence that later, as he found his bent for that sort of writing that culminated
in "The Playboy," Lady Gregory turned at times to historical drama and a farce that grew as
serious as comedy? There is, of course, in all her plays serious indictment of national weaknesses,
sometimes obvious indictment, as in "The Deliverer" (1911), which records, in terms of folk-biblical
allegory, his countrymen's desertion of Parnell; sometimes indictment not so obvious, as in
"The Canavans" (1906), which rebukes that shoneenism in high places which has for generations
been one of the curses of Ireland. To him who knows only a little of Irish life it is easy
to see the meaning but superficially concealed by the farcical bustle, the laughter, and the
lamentations. But to him who looks but on the surface there is merriness enough and wittiness
enough and wisdom enough to make his loss of the deeper meaning, for him, but a little loss.

There are enough characters presented, too, peasants generally and townsfolk of the lower class,
to make the farces a "reading of life." What is wanting to him who looks for more than what
farce may do is the largeness of utterance that will make a "reading of life" memorable. Take
"the image" (1910), for instance, in which Lady Gregory is attempting more than in "Spreading
the News" (1904) or "Hyacinth Halvey" (1906). This play, the longest that Lady Gregory has
written, is what the stage would call the character farce. She owns it a presentation of dreams
of old men and old women which crumble at the touch of reality, but it is not only this, but
a symbolizing of the proneness of all Ireland to accept as certainties on the eve of realization
what are really only signs that point to possibilities in a far to-morrow. In the play four
old men of a little village on the west coast are debating what they will do with their share
of a windfall that has come to the village in the shape of two whales that have drifted up
on the beach. When the priest determines that all the proceeds from the sale of the oil from
the whales be spent on something that will benefit the whole community they plan a statue (one
of them is a stone-cutter) to some great celebrity. The motives that lead them to choose Hugh
O'Lorrha are telling satire not only of Irishmen, but of all men. It would hardly be, however,
in any other country than Ireland that the name of the one come at by way of accident would,
unidentified for some time by any, be finally revealed as that of the hero of a folk-tale.
Four days after the whales had come ashore, days wasted in planning what the village will do
with the prize money, and unutilized in securing the blubber and rendering out the oil, the
quartette learned that "the Connemara lads have the oil drawn from the one of them, and the
other one was swept away with the spring tide."

Though "The Image" be farce, its characters are the characters of comedy, and its purpose whole-heartedly
serious. And even "Spreading the News" has its lesson, of rumor's wild riot in Irish crowds.
On the slightest grounds the reciting of an errand of helpfulness is turned by quick imagination
into a story of a murder. Lightly sketched as are the people here, from a caricature of a magistrate
to the more serious presentment of Mrs. Fallon's "nice quiet little man," they are very true
to Ireland. Slighter even are the butcher and the postmistress and the model sub-sanitary inspector
in "Hyacinth Halvey," though all are fully understood and fully blocked out in their author's
mind, if impossible of complete realization within limits so narrow; but the farce itself is
not lifted into dignity by any noble underlying attitude. "The Jack Daw" (1907) has rumor again
as its motive, as had "Spreading the News," but it is not the motive of the play or any of
its incidents that is the best thing about it, but the character of Michael Cooney, of the
"seventh generation of Cooneys who trusted nobody living or dead." He is, of course, caricatured,
but he has possibilities of personality, and he could have been worked into the fullness of
a universal character had "The Jack Daw" been comedy, we will say, instead of farce. Of all
her characters, that of Hyacinth Halvey is most nearly rounded out, but then Lady Gregory has
taken two little plays in which to present his portrait, "The Full Moon" (1911) recording some
of his later experiences in Cloon and his final departure from the town, his introduction to
which was recorded in the play bearing his name.

"The Workhouse Ward" (1908), reaching from wild farce to sentimental comedy, is hardly more
than a dialogue, but it is given body by the truth to Irish life out of which it is written,
that quarreling is better than loneliness. Lady Gregory has disowned "Twenty-five" (1902),
which is frankly melodrama, her only other experiment in which, in her plays of modern Ireland,
is "The Rising of the Moon" (1903). This play relates the allowed escape from a police officer
of a political prisoner through that prisoner's persuading the officer that "patriotism" is
above his sworn duty to England.

Of the plays that may be called historical, "The Canavans" (1906) is the best, because it is
of the peasantry, I suppose, who change so little with the years, and whom Lady Gregory presents
so amusingly and so truly in her modern farce comedy. "Kincora" (1903) takes us all the way
back to the eleventh century, deriving its name from Brian's Seat on the Shannon and ending
with his death at Clontarf. It is undistinguished melodrama. "The White Cockade" (1905) is
better only in so far as it involves farce, farce in the kitchen of an inn on the Wexford coast
just after the Battle of the Boyne. "Devorgilla" (1908) is of a time between the times of the
two other historical plays, of the time a generation later than the coming of the Normans to
Ireland. It is pitched to a higher key than any other of her historic plays, and it is held
better to its key, but its tragedy is far less impressive than the tragedy of "The Gaol Gate"
(1906) which pictures the effects upon his wife and his mother of the imprisonment of an Irish
lad of to-day, and their learning that "Denis Cahel died for his neighbor." This little play
is out of the life that Lady Gregory knows and can deal with; it is finely conceived and finely
executed, lingering in the mind as does the keen heard rising from some bare graveyard fronting
the Atlantic.

Just why Lady Gregory, who has rendered in prose so well old legends, should render old Irish
historic life so much less well I cannot explain. Sometimes I think it is because she has found
less of that history than of that legend among the people. Yet in "A Travelling Man" (1907),
her little miracle, somewhat in the manner of Dr. Hyde's, that brings Christ into a modern
peasant home, she has made a play of a tender and reconciling beauty. With the success of "A
Travelling Man" and "The Gaol Gate" before me I cannot say it is because her genius is for
farce; and to say that it is because her genius is for the plays of modern peasant life does
not help to account for the fact.

The idiom of all these plays is racy of the soil, and when it need be, eloquent with the eloquence
that is almost always in the English of the Irish. It is full of wise saws and proverbs, quips
and quirks of expression, the picturesquenesses and homelinesses of speech that are characteristic
of a peasant to whom talk is the half of life. These range from sayings like those of the clowns
of Elizabethan drama, such as "He had great wisdom I tell you, being silly-like, and blind,"
and such country wisdom as "What would the cat's son do but kill mice," up through the elaborate
maledictions of the two old paupers in "The Workhouse Ward" and such delightful asperities
as that of Maelmora anent his bitter sister Gormleith, "You were surely born on a Friday, and
the briars breaking through the green sod," to aphorisms that have an accent of eternity, as,
"It is the poor know all the troubles of the world," and "The swift, unflinching, terrible
judgment of the young."

The characters, even when they are purposely almost caricatures, have in them the possibility
of complete portrayals. There is no flagging of the invention in any of them, no slipshod or
careless composition. Her technique, too, at least in farce, is masterful, and in her plays
of modern life of other form adequate. That she could master historical drama, as I have said,
I must doubt, but that she need restrict herself so largely to farce and farce comedy in her
plays of modern life, I do not for a moment believe. "The Gaol Gate," in fact, proved that
she need not so restrict herself, and "MacDaragh's Wife" (1911), written by Lady Gregory at
sea on her way to America, but perhaps for that all the fuller of the wild old life of her
native Connacht. It would almost seem that with "Grania" (1912), a tragedy too, following "MacDaragh's
Wife," Lady Gregory is widening the scope of her work, as she well can, now that there are
other dramatists to provide comedies and farces for the Abbey Theatre. It is a haunting story
that "MacDaragh's Wife" tells, and largely a true story, the story of a piper who, though a
pauper, draws all the countryside to the funeral of his wife, draws them, through the wild
lamenting of his pipes, from the fair where they are sporting to follow, with a full fellowship,
to the grave, her who died all but alone. Lady Gregory tells us in a note just what of it she
gathered from old people about her girlhood's home at Roxborough, and what about her home of
to-day at Coole, how she has shaped it, and what emotion is back of it, the "lasting pride
of the artist of all ages."

As Lady Gregory had restricted herself, until recently, in the forms of modern life which she
wrote of and in the kinds of people she selected to write of, so, too, she had restricted herself,
until recently, in the motives she considered. It is true that the motive most recurrent in
her plays, that of fear of the opinion of the neighbor, an attitude probably sprung of the
clan system, is dominant in Irish life; and it is equally true that the motive most notably
absent, love, was until yesterday far from a dominant motive in the Irish life that Lady Gregory
presents: yet there are many other motives that, in true comedy, and even in farcical comedy,
might well have place. That these motives are not there is, I think, not only that Lady Gregory,
self-effacingly, put into her plays what was wanted to make them foils to the plays of Mr.
Yeats and Synge, but also because of the practice of one type of gentlewoman in literature,
of which Jane Austen is characteristic. And yet the mere mention of Jane Austen increases the
wonderment that Lady Gregory has not written of people of every condition in her neighborhood,
whether that be London or Dublin or Gort, as Miss Austen did of people of every condition in
her neighborhood, whether that be Steventon or Bath or Chawton. It can hardly be said, even,
that "Grania" her last play, is a play about love. In her note to the play, Lady Gregory declares,
"Love itself, with its shadow Jealousy, is the true protagonist!" And yet, I think it is Jealousy
only that is the true protagonist. There is much talk about love, but it is not from love,
but from jealousy that the action of the play arises. Among all this talk about love, among
many eloquent sayings about love, true readings of love, there stands out most clearly in my
memory this part of a speech of Finn, a speech uttered before Grania had turned from him to
Diarmuid--

     And as for youngsters, they do not know how to love because there
     is always some to-morrow's love possible in the shadow of the love
     of to-day. It is only the old it goes through and through entirely
     because they know all the last honey of the summer-time has come to
     its ferment in their cup, and there is no new summer coming to meet
     them forever.

This I remember not only for its thought but for its style, the rhythm of its prose. It is
Lady Gregory at her best, as "Grania" as a whole is Lady Gregory at her best in tragedy. If
"Grania" in every detail were as inspired as its explanation of the queen's quick turn from
Diarmuid to Finn, it would be a great play, indeed. Grania is no light woman, and yet she turns,
in the old legend, from the man who sacrificed all but all for her, on his death, to the High
King who brought about his death, with a suddenness inexplicable. Lady Gregory makes that sudden
turn plausible, for two reasons. One is that for seven years of wandering all over Ireland,
Diarmuid by his own will and because of loyalty to Finn, had kept Grania a maid, making her
his wife only after he found her being carried off by the King of Foreign. The other reason
is that as Diarmuid lies dying, wounded to death by that King of Foreign whom he has killed,
his thoughts are all of his long-delayed disloyalty to Finn, and not at all of Grania. Thus,
she justifies herself, speaking to Finn:--

     Grania. He had no love for me at any time. It is easy to know it
     now. I knew it all the while, but I would not give in to believe
     it. His desire was all the time with you yourself and Almhuin. He
     let on to be taken up with me, and it was but letting on. Why would
     I fret after him that so soon forgot his wife, and left her in a
     wretched way?

     Finn. You are not judging him right. You are distracted with the
     weight of your loss.

     Grania. Does any man at all speak lies at the very brink of
     death, or hold any secret in his heart? It was at that time he had
     done with deceit, and he showed where his thought was, and had no
     word at all for me that had left the whole world for his sake, and
     that went wearing out my youth, pushing here and there as far as
     the course of the stars of Heaven. And my thousand curses upon
     death not to have taken him at daybreak, and I believing his words!
     It is then I would have waked him well and would have cried my
     seven generations after him! And I have lost all on this side of
     the world, losing that trust and faith I had, and finding him to
     think of me no more than of a flock of stars would cast their
     shadow on his path. And I to die with this scald upon my heart; it
     is hard thistles would spring up out of my grave.

I have spoken of Lady Gregory as translator, as collector of folk-lore, as essayist, and as
dramatist; but there is another rôle in which she has brought no less advantage to the Celtic
Renaissance, though it is a rôle that has not brought her, as have these other, the joys of
recapturing or of creating beautiful things. Always objective, though never wholly able to
subordinate personality, however near she may have come to effacing it in her plays, Lady Gregory
has in this rôle considered herself solely as an agent in the service of Irish letters. The
Irishman is naturally a pamphleteer, and Mr. Yeats, poet of the Other World though he be, can
give as good blows in controversy as Mr. George Moore. Almost all who have part in the Renaissance
have skill in the art of publicity. They have needed no publicists to fight their battles as
the Pre-Raphaelites needed Ruskin. Still, in some measure in the way of publicity, and in large
measure in other ways, Lady Gregory has been to the Celtic Renaissance what Ruskin was to that
last renaissance of wonder. She has edited pamphlets on things national and artistic in Ireland,
she has helped Dr. Hyde and Mr. Yeats in their collecting of folk-lore and to a deeper knowledge
of the people; she has been one of the forces that have made possible the Abbey Theatre, giving
to it her power of organization as well as plays and patronage. More than this, she has welcomed
to Coole Park many a worker in the movement, who in the comfort of a holiday there has been
refreshed by the gray and green land so near the sea and reinspired by the contact with that
Irish Ireland so close to her doors. Like Ruskin, Lady Gregory is a great patron of letters,
but like Ruskin she is much more. Lady Gregory is an artist in words who is to be valued as
a presenter of Irish life, past and present, with a beauty that was not in English literature
before she made it.

CHAPTER VII

JOHN MILLINGTON SYNGE

It is Synge himself who puts the just phrase on what his life was to him, and it is, as it
could not else be, from the lips of his Deirdre that it falls. "It should be a sweet thing
to have what is best and richest, if it's for a short space only." It is Deirdre alone of his
men and women that is introspective at all, Deirdre--and Naisi when he is mastered by thoughts
of home that will not down. Synge wrote the play of her triumph over death as he himself was
dying, and he wrote it with high heart, and, what is higher, gladness, despite his foreknowledge
of his doom. It was to fulfill his dream of the most queenly girl of old Irish legend that
he wrote "Deirdre of the Sorrows," but he could not keep out of his writing, had he wished
to keep it out, his own love that death was so soon to end, and the thoughts of what was the
worth of life. "It should be a sweet thing to have what is best and richest, if it's for a
short space only." It is not a new saying, but it is not to be identified with the proverbial
"a short life and a merry," with which some confuse it, and of Synge it was a true saying.
There are those who, because of the irony of his writing, an irony that is new to literature,
and, maybe, to some cruel, or at least disillusionizing, may think there was little joy for
him; but the truth is there was never a writer in whom there was more joy. This "strange still
man" as he was even to those who knew him best, gentle or simple, found all life that was natural
life, even of the barest and rudest, as thrilling as first love. It is this man, his enemies
at home the sated Parisian, who knew a gusto in living greater than that of any English writer
since Borrow. Let no one forget those lines with which Christy Mahon cries defiance to the
Mayo folk who have known his greatness and his fall: "Ten thousand blessings upon all that's
here, for you've turned me a likely gaffer in the end of all, the way I'll go romancing through
a romping lifetime from this hour to the dawning of the judgment day." I do not deny that these
words are in a sense wrung from the Playboy, but what I do hold is that they prove how vital
was the genius of the man who wrote them, who saw the joy there was yet in life for this braggart
wastrel just as he saw that even such a miserable boyhood as Christy's knew a kind of poacher's
joy in running wild on the bogs. Even for poor Nora, turned out on the roads with a tramp for
companion, there is the joy of the road once she learns to know it. The tramp knows it surely:--

     You'll be hearing the herons crying out over the black lakes, and
     you'll be hearing the grouse and the owls with them, and the larks
     and the big thrushes when the days are warm: and it's not from the
     like of them you'll be hearing a tale of getting old like Peggy
     Cavanagh, and losing the hair off you and the light of your eyes,
     but it's fine songs you'll be hearing when the sun goes up, and
     there'll be no old fellow wheezing the like of a sick sheep, close
     to your ear.

Of like gusto, too, is the joy of Martin Doul and Mary Doul in their blindness; and the joy
of the three tinkers in the escape of themselves and their half-sovereign from the priest and
in the prospect of "A great time drinking that bit with the trampers in the green of Clash."
And from such joys as these, wild and earthy and rallying, his exultations range to the exalted
serenity and sadness of Naisi and Deirdre as they look back on their seven year of love in
Glen Masain, of love almost too perfect and too happy to be human.

Yes, joy is as distinctive as irony and extravagance of the writing of Synge, joy in mere living,
in life even at the worst, and joy, too, in life at the best. "It should be a sweet thing to
have what is best and richest, if it's for a short space only." It was for a short space of
years that Synge had "what is best and richest," hardly for the seven years of his great lovers.
He did not have it when his thought homed to Ireland in 1899, as a result of a meeting with
Mr. Yeats in Paris. His writing, then, was of little moment, but it grew better when, at home
again, he realized what Irish life was to him, when once renewed contact with the Irish peasant
brought back the familiarity that had been his in the nursery. It was the Wicklow glens, to
which memories of his people drew him, and the Aran Islands, where he went to study Irish--until
then little more than a book language to him--and to live a life perhaps "more primitive than
any in Europe," that enabled him to find himself. Further 'prentice work, though of a new sort,
followed his sojourns in Wicklow and Aran, but by 1903 his art had matured to the ripe power
of "In the Shadow of the Glen" and "Riders to the Sea," which, after adjustment to the stage,
were put on respectively October 8, 1903, and February 25, 1904, at Molesworth Hall, Dublin.
"The Tinker's Wedding" which has been played only once, and then in London, dates from about
the same time. "The Well of the Saints" was produced on February 4, 1905, at the Abbey Theatre,
Dublin, and "The Playboy of the Western World" on January 26, 1907, at the same place, to the
accompaniment of an uproar that a certain element of Irishmen have considered it proper to
create ever since on its first appearance in all cities whatsoever, whether in Great Britain
or America. One wonders what they would have done had he made it as biting as Ibsen made "Peer
Gynt." "Deirdre of the Sorrows," which Synge left unrevised, was first produced at the Abbey
Theatre on January 13, 1910, the last of the six plays of his maturity. It was in the years
from 1902 to 1909 that he had "what is best and richest"--a full life, lived largely in the
Ireland that he loved; the artist's joy in making that life into a new beauty, a beauty that
was all compact of exaltation and extravagance and irony; and love for a woman in whom his
man's life and his artist's life were united, for her who embodied his dream of Pegeen Mike
and added her life and her art of the stage to his dream of Deirdre, as day by day it emerged
from his mind. And so great was his joy in these good things that his precarious health, and
even his year--long last illness, could not, while he had any strength, lessen the high spirit
of his writing. There is none of his plays more vital than "Deirdre of the Sorrows."

And yet this joy that is basic in Synge, this exaltation, is no more basic than emotions and
attitudes of mind that are often, in other men, at war with joy and exaltation--irony and grotesquerie,
keen insight into "the black thoughts of men," and insistent awareness of the quick passing
of all good things, diablerie and mordancy. Strange, then, should be his love passages and
strange too, they are at times, ranging from the bizarre delight of "In Kerry" to the triumphing
nobility of Deirdre's farewell to Alban. One thinks of Mr. Hardy and one thinks of Donne as
one reads "In Kerry":--

  "We heard the thrushes by the shore and sea,
  And saw the golden stars' nativity,
  Then round we went the lane by Thomas Flynn,
  Across the church where bones lie out and in;
  And there I asked beneath a lonely cloud
  Of strange delight, with one bird singing loud,
  What change you'd wrought in graveyard, rock and sea,
  This new wild paradise to wake for me ...
  Yet knew no more than knew those merry sins
  Had built this stack of thigh-bones, jaws and shins."

One thinks of no other writer at all, however, when one reads Christy's wooing of Pegeen, even
when one puts down the book in the quiet that always comes on one in the presence of something
great; one thinks of no other writer, of course, when one sees the lovers and listens to their
words, on the stage, for one is rapt out of one's self by the perfect accord of drama and actors
at one in the service of beauty:--

     Christy (indignantly). Starting from you, is it? (He follows
     her.) I will not, then, and when the airs is warming, in four
     months or five, it's then yourself and me should be pacing Neifin
     in the dews of night, the times sweet smells do be rising, and
     you'll see a little, shiny new moon, maybe, sinking on the hills.

     Pegeen (looking at him playfully). And it's that kind of a
     poacher's love you'd make, Christy Mahon, on the sides of Neifin,
     when the night is down?

     Christy. It's little you'll think if my love's a poacher's, or an
     earl's itself, when you'll feel my two hands stretched around you,
     and I squeezing kisses on your puckered lips, till I'd feel a kind
     of pity for the Lord God is all ages sitting lonesome in His golden
     chair.

     Pegeen. That'll be right fun, Christy Mahon, and any girl would
     walk her heart out before she'd meet a young man was your like for
     eloquence, or talk at all.

     Christy (encouraged). Let you wait, to hear me talking, till
     we're astray in Erris, when Good Friday's by, drinking a sup from a
     well, and making mighty kisses with our wetted mouths, or gaming in
     a gap of sunshine, with yourself stretched back unto your necklace,
     in the flowers of the earth.

     Pegeen (in a low voice, moved by his tone). I'd be nice, so, is
     it?

     Christy (with rapture). If the mitred bishops seen you that
     time, they'd be the like of the holy prophets, I'm thinking, do be
     straining the bars of Paradise to lay eyes on the Lady Helen of
     Troy, and she abroad, pacing back and forward, with a nosegay in
     her golden shawl.

Borrow, who comes to mind more often than any other writer as one reads Synge, chose to avoid
love scenes, and Borrow's follower, Mr. Hewlett, for all his gusto, has no such exaltation
as this. Had Harry Richmond taken to the road with Kiomi we might have known something like
it. A chapter out of the early life of Juggling Jerry and his "Old Girl," done in the manner
of "Love in the Valley," would be still nearer to it. As it is, this passage of the third act
of "The Playboy of the Western World" stands alone. I doubt if Synge had read Meredith, and
even had he, the life of the roads and their cottages that Synge knew so well was his master,
and no writer at all. In a way, of course, the Irish-English of Dr. Hyde's translations of
"The Love Songs of Connacht" was an influence, and you will find many expressions common to
them and Synge. It is not important, however, whether these expressions have a common source,
or whether Synge took them from "The Love Songs" rather than from his own note-book. Whatever
their source it was Synge who made out of them a great style, his peasant style. It is another
and a severer style that he uses in his "Deirdre of the Sorrows," the courtly subject demanding
dignity and restraint. This latter style has borrowed some of the bare simplicity of the personal
style of Synge, that style, I mean, in which he records his own experience in the Aran Islands
or in Wicklow and Kerry.

Romancing, which is the very atmosphere of "The Playboy of the Western World," would be out
of place in any telling of the greatest of old Irish legends; so it is that Synge has found
for "Deirdre of the Sorrows," or rather for its great moments, an austere epic speech that
seems native to the story. The passionate words are nobly adequate to the passionate resignation
they have to tell, a resignation that has come of the unwilling belief of the lovers that so
great a love as theirs cannot last longer "without fleck or flaw" than the seven years it has
lasted. Says Deirdre, when she has come to know it is fate that they will return to Ireland,
and death:--

     The dawn and evening are a little while, the winter and the summer
     pass quickly, and what way would you and I, Naisi, have joy
     forever.... It's this hour we're between the daytime and a night
     where there is sleep forever, and isn't it better thing to be
     following on to a near death than to be bending the head down, and
     dragging with the feet, and seeing one day a blight showing upon
     love where it is sweet and tender?

     Naisi (his voice broken with distraction). If a near death is
     coming what will be my trouble losing the earth and the stars over
     it, and you, Deirdre, are their flame and bright crown? Come away
     into the safety of the woods.

     Deirdre (shaking her head slowly). There are as many ways to
     wither love as there are stars in a night of Samhain; but there is
     no way to keep life, or love with it, a short space only.... It's
     for that there's nothing lonesome like a love is watching out the
     time most lovers do be sleeping.... It's for that we're setting out
     for Emain Macha when the tide turns on the sand.

     Naisi (giving in). You're right, maybe. It should be a poor
     thing to see great lovers and they sleepy and old.

     Deirdre (with a more tender intensity). We're seven years
     without roughness or growing weary; seven years so sweet and
     shining, the gods would be hard set to give us seven days the like
     of them. It's for that we're going to Emain, where there'll be a
     rest forever, or a place for forgetting, in great crowds and they
     making a stir.

     Naisi (very softly). We'll go, surely, in place of keeping a
     watch on a love had no match and it wasting away. (They cling to
     each other, then Naisi looks up.)

And this is from the unfinished second act, that Synge thought would scarcely be worth preserving.
I have quoted it rather than the great keen over the body of Naisi that brings the play to
a close, because that must of necessity follow the old poem, and this is as Synge imagined
it. Each is "a thing will be a joy and triumph to the ends of life and time."

I have thrown what I have to say about the exaltation of Synge to the forefront of what I have
to say of him, that all may be read in the memory of this emphasis and of the exaltation of
what I quote, no matter how fantastic or grotesque or disillusionizing or even ghoulish it
may be. Whatever other quality may be dominant at any moment in Synge there is always, along
with it, exaltation.

It is the extravagance and grotesquerie, of both language and situation, that is the most immediately
arresting of the qualities of Synge. And this extravagance and grotesquerie have marked his
writing from the start. The old husband playing dead, that he may catch his young wife with
her lover, of his first play, "In the Shadow of the Glen," is a very old motive, and familiar
in the meliorized form that made it known to the theatre in "Conn the Shaughraun" (1875). Before
that, Crofton Croker had given it currency, in "The Corpse Watchers," among those outside of
the circles in which it was a familiar folk-story. It might, indeed, be said of "In the Shadow
of the Glen" that it begins in the manner of Boucicault and ends in the manner of Ibsen, for
Nora Burke is in a way a peasant Hedda Gabler. Such a criticism would, of course, be very superficial.
The story is a folk-story of many countries and Synge was told the version he worked from by
the old shanachie of Inishmaan whom he calls Pat Dirane in "The Aran Islands." At moments the
play approaches farce, as when the supposed corpse rises from the bed where he is stretched
and drinks whiskey with a tramp who has happened in while Nora is gone to meet her young man.
From such a situation it turns to keen pathos, as Nora sits with tramp and lover and the old
husband she thinks dead, and listens to the wind and rain sweeping through the high glens about
the hut and thinks of "the young growing behind her," and the old passing. Where else will
you find cheek by jowl such sardonic humor as this and such poignancy of lament for the passing
of youth? Nora speaks as she pours out whiskey for her young man:--

     Why would I marry you, Mike Dara? You'll be getting old and I'll be
     getting old, and in a little while, I'm telling you, you'll be
     sitting up in your bed--the way himself was sitting--with a shake
     in your face, and your teeth falling, and the white hair sticking
     out round you like an old bush where sheep do be leaping a gap.

     (Dan Burke sits up noiselessly from under the sheet, with his hand
     to his face. His white hair is sticking out round his head. Nora
     goes on slowly without hearing him.)

     It's a pitiful thing to be getting old, but it's a queer thing
     surely. It's a queer thing to see an old man sitting up there in
     his bed with no teeth in him, and a rough word in his mouth, and
     his chin the way it would take the bark from the edge of an oak
     board you'd have building a door.... God forgive me, Michael Dara,
     we'll all be getting old, but it's a queer thing surely.

     Michael. It's too lonesome you are from living a long time with
     an old man, Nora, and you're talking again like a herd that would
     be coming down from the thick mist (he puts his arm round her),
     but it's a fine life you'll have now with a young man--a fine life,
     surely.

     (Dan sneezes violently. Michael tries to get to the door, but
     before he can do so Dan jumps out of the bed in queer white
     clothes, with the stick in his hand, and goes over and puts his
     back against it.)

     Michael. Son of God deliver us!

Equal extravagance and equal grotesquerie, and irony biting beyond any in any other of his
plays, you will find in "The Well of the Saints." This, too, is built up out of Synge's experience
of life in Aran and Wicklow. Old Mourteen, a "dark man," who taught him Gaelic on Aranmor,
suggested Martin Doul, the chief character of the play, and it was Mourteen told him, too,
the story of the well whose water would give sight to blind eyes. A story told Synge on Inishere
supplied the saint, and a tramp in Wicklow the thoughts of Martin Doul and Mary Doul as to
the glory their hair would be to them in age. As you read his travel sketches, in fact, you
are always coming on passages that very evidently are the suggestions for situations in this
play or that, and sometimes more than suggestions--stories and situations and very phrases
that you remember as on the lips of the peasants in his plays. In these travel sketches, too,
you find the background of the plays. There is but the germ of "The Playboy of the Western
World" in the story told Synge in Inishmaan of the hiding there from the police of the man
that killed his father, but there is old Mourteen's comparison of an unmarried man to "an old
jackass straying in the rocks," which later we find transferred to Michael James Flaherty almost
as Synge heard it--"an old braying jackass straying upon the rocks."

It may be, too, that the famous Lynchehaun case confirmed Synge in taking the Aran story of
the man who killed his father as the basis of "The Playboy," but it is little he got for his
plays from his reading of "the fearful crimes of Ireland," and little that he got for them
from any of his reading. There are situations in "The Tinker's Wedding"--the tying-up of the
priest in the bag, for instance--that suggest as source "The Lout and his Mother," included
by Dr. Hyde in his "Religious Songs of Connacht," but Synge records, in "At a Wicklow Fair,"
that a herd told him the story of the tinker couple that would be wed, as he and the herd met
the man in the case in Aughrim.

No one who knows Ireland at all would hold that Synge's plays are typical of the Irish peasant
generally, but any one who knows Irish literature at all, and the life of the roads in Ireland,
will admit that wildness and extravagance are to be found in that literature from the beginning
and in that life even at this day of supposed civilization. You will find one kind of extravagance
in the distortions of Cuchulain in bardic literature, another kind of extravagance in "Little
Red Mary and the Goat with the Chime of Bells" that your gardener tells you in a prosaic American
suburban town; you will find the primitiveness of prehistoric life in the burning of poor old
Mrs. Cleary by her neighbors in Tipperary (1895), to drive a demon out of her, and the savage
that is but under the skin of all men in the description of the Spinsters' Ball at Ballinasloe
in "A Drama in Muslin." Said an old shanachie to Synge on Inishere, when Synge had told him
of a stock exchange trick, "Isn't it a great wonder to think that those men are as big rogues
as ourselves?" It is idle to pretend that it is not true that, in some moods, all men the world
over have sympathy for the rogue. Why do we read of Reynard the Fox with delight, and Robin
Hood, and Uncle Remus, and not only in the days of our own infantile roguery, but as grown
men and women? This man or that may say it is because of the cleverness of Reynard, the daring
of Robin Hood or his wild-woods setting, and the resourcefulness of Bre'r Rabbit; but the honest
man will admit it is because of an innate and deeply rooted human sympathy with roguery as
well as our natural human sympathy with the under dog and the man hunted by a merciless or
an alien law. Very often, if the roguery is very great, or we are brought face to face with
its effects and realize it is a real thing in real life, we will be shocked out of our sympathy
with it, and realize, as did Pegeen Mike, the difference between a "gallous story and a dirty
deed." But sometimes, if we are a people living a primitive life, we will no more awaken to
the reality of the wrong of roguery than we would as children have been able to sympathize
with the farmer whose pumpkin patch we raided on the eve of Hallowe'en. A sneaking sympathy
with roguery, however, is a very different thing from a delight in extravagance. That, too,
is a universal passion, but not so native to the Teuton as to Celt or Finn or Oriental. Its
absence is what most differentiates Old Norse literature from Old Irish, with which it so early
came into contact. It is in travelers' tales and in the tales of seamen and in the writing
that was based on these, in rare moments of religious or romantic ecstasy, or in borrowings
from Celt or Oriental that you will find the most of what extravagance there is in English
literature. In America you find extravagance in our humor, and this humor, perhaps, owes as
much of its extravagance to an Irish ancestry as to an environment of new wonders that could
not be well expressed save in hyperbole.

It is not only the extravagance of the change wrought in Christy by unexpected hero-worship
and an awakening of self-confidence through love for the first time known and returned that
we wonder at, and the extravagance of that hero-worship, but the extravagance of the imagination
of his creator, and the beautiful extravagance of his speech. The freshness and audacity of
that imagination, and the beautiful extravagance of that speech, a speech modulated to a rhythm
that Synge was the first to catch, are in themselves enough to give distinction to almost any
subject. There was granted Synge more than this, however,--a keenness of vision into the pathetic
humanity of ugly things and a power to realize this with a beauty that was granted to no one
before, though to Swift it was granted to see the ugliness as a bitter thing. Borrow had, indeed,
a glimpse now and then of the pathetic beauty there is in ugliness, as in the story of Isopel
Berners and the Flaming Tinman, and Whitman, too; but no man before Synge had the power at
once to see the ugly subject as beautiful from a new angle of vision, humanize it, irradiate
it with a new glow of imagination, reveal it through a style that for the first time ennobles
English prose drama as blank verse has long ennobled English verse drama.

Take "The Tinker's Wedding," for instance. The theme is the desire of a tinker woman, youngish
if not young, to wed the man who has long been her mate; his mother's unstudied frustration
of that scheme by stealing, to swap for drink, the can they were to give to the priest along
with a half-sovereign for marrying them; and their joy, in the end, that they have escaped
matrimony and the wasting of good money. And yet this theme is underlaid with an emotion so
vital, the emotion of a wild free life, and invested with a pathos so poignant of the quick
passing of all good things, that no understanding heart can but be profoundly moved by that
pathos and racily rejoiced at that wildness.

It is thus, for instance, soliloquizes Mary Byrne, the rapscalliony old tinker woman of outrageous
behavior of "The Tinker's Wedding." She is stealing the aforesaid can, in the absence of her
son and his Sarah "to get two of Tim Flaherty's hens": "Maybe the two of them have a good right
to be walking out the little short while they'd be young; but if they have itself, they'll
not keep Mary Byrne from her full pint when the night's fine, and there's a dry moon in the
sky." One thinks, as one reads, of Villon's old woman and her lament for yesteryear, but there
are not many writers anywhere in the world, of old time or of to-day, who have such power of
blending pathos and ugliness into beauty, and no other one that I know who can infuse humor
into the blend, and make one at the one time laugh ironically and be thrilled as with great poetry.

There are those, of course, to whom this earthiness and wildness are repulsive, to whom old
Martin Doul's love pleading to Molly Byrne is unendurable. A dirty "shabby stump of a man,"
a beggar, blind and middle-aged, is asking a fine white girl, young, and as teasing as an ox-eyed
and ox-minded colleen may be, to go away with him. Not an exalting situation, exactly, as you
read of it or see it on the stage, but once you see it on the stage, where its animality you
would expect would be heightened, you realize--and it is strange to you that you do so realize--first
of all its pathos, and again its pathos, and always, the scene through, its pathos. Had Molly
gone with old Martin it would have revolted you, for it would have been unnatural, but since
she did not, and since she was not the sort to be easily insulted, you only wonder at the power
of passion and realize its pathos, and the irony of it.

There is, however, a situation ironical of love in "In the Shadow of the Glen" that is more
appalling to some than any irony of "The Well of the Saints." I mean the scene at the end,
where Nora, turned out by her husband and forsaken by her lover, goes out into the rain with
the tramp, leaving husband and lover drinking together in utmost amity. The pathos of this
and the irony of it are of a part with the pathos of the close of "Hedda Gabler." Hedda and
Nora, selfish and willful both, if you like, are yet fine women both, and human, as Zenobia
and Eustacia are human, and pathetic in their fates, with a pathos that even Hawthorne and
Mr. Hardy have seldom the power to make us feel. But the fate of Nora was ironic as the fate
of none of the others, for all three of them escaped the ennui and misery of life, while Nora
but begins a new life, freer for the moment than her old life, but promising, in the end, only
the old dull round.

The irony of it! "The irony of it" is always in Synge's writing even in its most exalted moments.
A seven years' love "without fleck or flaw" is "surely a wonder," but it is just as surely
ironical that it, like all good things, shall so soon come to an end. That, of course, is but
the way of nature, and so we much question if, after all, the irony of Synge is more insistent
than the irony of nature. If it is it is because he takes more care to uncover it, but basically
his irony is but the irony of nature. He is in reality less ironical than Mr. Hardy, the great
ironist of English literature of our day, and he is never bitter, for bitterness comes seldom
except to the writer who is interested in morals, and morals interest Synge only in so far
as they are natural. It is life--not any conventional way of life, or any ideal of life--that
interests Synge, so he escapes ensnarement in any of the questions of the day. So frankly does
he accept life that there is in him no note of protest whatsoever, which is again fortunate,
for protest, too, will lead a man to morals and leave on his work the taint of a passing system
of morality as it did even on Ibsen.

If there is symbolism to be found in Synge, it is there only by accident, never as the result
of definite intent. He may have had, in the back of his mind, as he wrote "The Playboy of the
Western World," the thought of chance making a man, of a man finding himself through others
believing in him who has no belief in himself but that there is in the play any parable of
young Ireland losing its allegiance to a previous ideal of Ireland, I do not for a moment believe.
There is, of course, in "The Well of the Saints" the old and oft-uttered truth that men prefer
blindness in many things to correct vision of them, that truth that drives Mr. Shaw to blind
anger. Synge has no resentment against that truth, only interest in it as a fact that is true
of people as he sees them. The play is an unforgettable symbol of that truth, but to make it
such was not why Synge wrote it. He wrote it with a purpose akin to that which inspired Burns
to write his "Jolly Beggars." He wrote it to make something beautiful out of the life of the
beggars of the Wicklow mountains, and I have no doubt he had a wild joy in the idea of it,
in the irony of its truth, in the grotesquerie of the situations he garnered from his memory
to illustrate its beauty and truth.

Many wonders are possible even to-day in the wild life of the roads and of the sea-haunted
islands that Synge knew, but he was wise to put "The Well of the Saints" back a hundred years
or more. Aran islanders told him of rye that turned to oats in their fields and of phantom
ships that passed them at sea, but a miracle of healing such as that of "The Well of the Saints"
they were familiar with only in folk-song such as "Mary's Well," and such a miracle, too, would
hardly be attempted by a priest of to-day.

Synge had the great advantage of writing all his plays, after the earliest, for the stage.
He knew as he wrote that he could test that writing's stage effect in rehearsal and change
it if need be. So he did change "The Playboy of the Western World," revealing the incident
of the supposed patricide as a bit of narrative addressed by Christy to the admiring girls
of the Mayo village, instead of, as he had intended, a scene on the stage in "a windy corner
of rich Munster land." Had he written "Riders to the Sea" later, Synge would surely never have
crowded into it incidents that took far longer in the happening than in the portrayal of that
happening on the stage. It is this technical shortcoming that for me takes away somewhat from
the exceeding beauty of this tragedy of Aran. The story of the finding of the clothes that
tell of the death at sea of the last but one of the five sons of Maurya, and of the death on
the very shore itself of the last son, is in its very nature a dirge, and demands a slower
movement than is possible with its incidents arranged as he was content to leave them in the
play as we have it. "Riders to the Sea" is less representative of Synge, moreover, than any
other of his plays, for it is written on one note, the note of the dirge, of the dirge of the
tides that sound their menace of the sea through Inishmaan. It is less representative of Synge
because it has in it no humor, no quick changes of mood, no revelation of tumult of soul. It
is less representative of Synge in that it is less original than any other of his plays, reminiscent
in fact in all but its style, now of Ibsen, now of M. Maeterlinck, now even of Mr. Edward Martyn.
And his style itself is not what his style was in "In the Shadow of the Glen," nor what it
became again in "The Well of the Saints."

One wonders where that speech came from, that speech that is, as he would have it, "fully flavored
as a nut or apple." Mr. Yeats and Lady Gregory tell us that he did not have it until he had
been made free, through residence there, of the life of the Aran Islands. If one has read,
however, the English of the prose translations of Dr. Hyde's "Love Songs of Connacht," one
may see in their style the genesis of the style of "Riders to the Sea," and if one has read
the "Dialogue between Two Old Women" of "The Religious Songs of Connacht," and "The Lout and
his Mother," one may come to believe that these turned Synge toward the even more fully flavored
and more rhythmic speech of the other plays.

The speech of Connacht folk-song rendered into the English of Connacht by Dr. Hyde, however,
and the speech of Borrow were no more than the start, if they were as much as the start, that
put him on the right road. If ever a man made his style himself, it was Synge. He made it out
of his memory and out of his imagination, using "one or two words only that I have not heard,"
he said, "among the country people of Ireland, or spoken in my own nursery before I could read
the newspaper," but evolving from that memory by his imagination a speech that is in harmony
with the imagination of the people an imagination that is, he tells us, "fiery and magnificent
and tender," though no such actual speech would be possible of reproduction from any one of them.

Synge is very definite in his statement of what he believes drama should be, and what he would
make his own drama of Irish life, expressing his belief in the preface to "The Tinker's Wedding":--

     The drama is made serious ... not by the degree in which it is
     taken up with problems that are serious in themselves, but by the
     degree in which it gives the nourishment, not very easy to define,
     on which our imaginations live....

     We should not go to the theatre as we go to a chemist's or a
     dramshop, but as we go to a dinner where the food we need is taken
     with pleasure and excitement....

     The drama, like the symphony, does not teach or prove anything....

     Of the things which nourish the imagination, humor is one of the
     most needful and it is dangerous to limit or destroy it. Baudelaire
     calls laughter the greatest sign of the Satanic element in man; and
     where a country loses its humor, as some towns in Ireland are
     doing, there will be a morbidity of mind, as Baudelaire's mind was
     morbid. In the greater part of Ireland, however, the whole people,
     from the tinkers to the clergy, have still a life, and view of
     life, that are rich and genial and humorous. I do not think that
     these country people, who have so much humor themselves, will mind
     being laughed at without malice, as the people in every country
     have been laughed at, in their own comedies.

In the preface to "The Playboy of the Western World" is this paragraph, completing his credo
as to drama:--

     On the stage one must have reality, and one must have joy; and that
     is why the intellectual modern drama has failed, and people have
     grown sick of the false joy of the musical comedy, that has been
     given them in place of the rich joy found only in what is superb
     and wild in reality.

Although there are only about forty characters, all told, in the six plays of Synge, and ten
of these are in "Deirdre of the Sorrows," which for all its humanity is a play out of a life
that is gone, there are men and women a-plenty to give us this "rich joy found only in what
is superb and wild in reality." Nora is "superb and wild" in her longings, and Maurya in her
sorrow; and old Martin Doul "superb and wild" in his dream of life in the South; Sarah Casey
and Pegeen Mike "superb and wild" in the most direct sense of the phrase; and these are all
real, if not representative of the poorer peasantry. And in the high way of romance who has
dreamed what is more superb and wilder than the lament of Deirdre over Naisi! In the creation
of character, as in style, and in technique of drama, Synge has done what he would. In only
one of his plays, in "Riders to the Sea," are his leading characters representative Irish peasants;
and even Maurya and her children, not only because of the isolation of their home in Aran,
but because of the fate which has marked her mankind for death at sea, are somewhat apart from
the fisher-people of the west coast. In all his four other plays of modern life, Synge has
chosen characters who are, in his own words, "variations from the ordinary types of manhood,"--chosen
them because of his deep-seated love of the unconventional. In "In the Shadow of the Glen,"
Michael Dara, the herd, is a common type, and Dan Burke, the old sheep farmer, not an uncommon
type, but the tramp and Nora, the one by his wandering and the other by her brooding, are "variations,"
though very human both. Of the cottager class, too, are Timmy the Smith, Molly Byrne, and the
"villagers" of "The Well of the Saints," as are, too, the girls and men of "The Playboy of
the Western World" other than the Mahons and Michael James. Shawn Keogh, indeed, is a cut above
cottagers, being almost a strong farmer, and Michael James himself was, no doubt, of a similar
cottager respectability before he took to shebeen-keeping. Almost all the other characters
of these modern plays are, with the exception of the priest of "The Tinker's Wedding" and the
saint of "The Well of the Saints," squatters, beggars, and tinkers. Among them, few as they
are all told, are very differing personalities--Christy the Playboy and his father, "a dirty
man, God forgive him, and he getting old and crusty"; Martin Doul, a "shabby stump of a man,"
"of queer talk," middle-aged and blind and a beggar; Michael Byrne, the hardy, thieving, unimaginative
tinker; and the romancing young tramp who gallants Nora when her own husband turns her out
on the road;--"variations" all, perhaps, but human, and compelling, all of them, our interest,
and greater or less sympathy. And the women! Nora, whom we leave as road-woman, I have likened
to Hedda Gabler, and Sarah Casey in externals to Isopel Berners, but I do not know to whom
to compare the others save Mary Byrne, as slightly suggestive of Villon's old woman. Mary Doul,
blind Martin's blind wife, has a general likeness to some old witch out of a fairy tale, but
she is far from being a witch; and Widow Quinn the incomparable might be compared, were she
not too high-hearted, to the hag of "The Lout and Mother" in being

        "indecent-spoken, carneying, lying,
  Plausible, full of poems and prophecies and sharp edged."

Of the women of the cottager class, Nora, for all her wildness and bitterness, is the most
lovable, and Molly Byrne the least lovable; the girls of "Riders to the Sea" are not fully
enough individualized to make us feel we know them; but Pegeen Mike, Synge has put before us
in appearance and temperament, character and personality. "A wild-looking but fine girl," he
describes her, "with a divil's own temper," "the fright of seven town-lands"--as she says--"for
my biting tongue," but susceptible of softening toward a boy of good looks and coaxing ways
such as Christy. He gets around her with "his poet's talking" and his popularity, his "mighty
spirit" and "gamey heart" until she gives him "words would put you thinking on the holy Brigid
speaking to the infant saints."

There might be incongruity, if one were writing of any other than Synge, in speaking of Deirdre
in such a company. Incongruity, however, is of the very texture of Synge's art, which has reconciled
qualities, as I have said, never before reconciled in English literature. It is on Deirdre
that Synge has lavished all the ideality that was in him, not because he had a dream of woman
he wished to fulfill, but because to him Deirdre was all that was queenly. And yet even Deirdre
is a "variation," as nobility and beauty must ever be. So lofty is she that words even in praise
of her are almost impertinent. Just how lofty her words that I quoted at the outset show, as
does also, by way of contrast, the mention of her here among these half-tragic, half-grotesque
women of the cottages and of the roads. There is scarcely a poet, of all that have written
of Ireland from the time of Ferguson to our time, that has not written his dream of Deirdre
as he finds her in the old legends of Ireland, but to my mind no one of them has dreamed her
so triumphantly as has Synge.

It is not, however, of such "variations" as Deirdre that the critics fall foul, but of the
"variations" he puts on Irish roads and in Irish cottages when he presents the life of to-day.
Why he replied to this criticism when to most criticism he was, if not indifferent, at least
impervious, it is not easy to say. It is more than likely, however, that it was rather to explain
his ideas than to justify his characters that he did answer. This criticism of the reality
of his peasants began with his "Shadow of the Glen" and is still to be heard in many places
to-day. It rose to its highest pitch of denunciation at the time of the production of "The
Playboy of the Western World" in Dublin, but it was before that that he answered it fully,
in the last paragraph of "The Vagrants of Wicklow," a travel sketch he made out of his wanderings
in his native country. Here it is, as effective in its answer to subsequent criticism as to
that which it was definitely intended to answer:--

     In all the circumstances of this tramp life there is a certain
     wildness that gives it romance and a peculiar value for those who
     look at life in Ireland with an eye that is aware of the arts
     also. In all the healthy movements of art, variations from the
     ordinary types of manhood are made interesting for the ordinary
     man, and in this way only the higher arts are universal. Beside
     this art, however, founded on the variations which are a condition
     and effect of all vigorous life, there is another art--sometimes
     confounded with it--founded on the freak of nature, in itself a
     mere sign of atavism or disease. This latter art, which is occupied
     with the antics of the freak, is of interest only to the variation
     from ordinary minds, and, for this reason, is never universal. To
     be quite plain, the tramp in real life, Hamlet and Faust, in the
     arts, are variations; but the maniac in real life, and Des
     Esseintes and all his ugly crew in the arts, are freaks only.

It is well to consider all his characters in the light of this statement, I think, and to re-read,
keeping in mind a possible further application of it, those phrases in the plays that so outrage
many at their hearing in the theatre, I would not for a moment seem to want to soften the hardness
of the life he pictures or to explain away his delightfully sardonic humor as in reality a
reconciling sort of humor, but I do wish to say that the more I read him the less cruel and
sardonic that humor seems. The impersonality of the man as dramatist grows on you as you read,
you realize more and more his abstention from playing chorus to his characters, and you come
to know that the seeming cruelty and sardonic joy are largely only the direct outcome of his
courage in allowing Nature to speak for herself. If you turn again to the plays after learning
of their background from his travel sketches, you see many things in a new light. The irony,
the grotesquerie, the tonic earthiness never grow less, but one learns to discount somewhat
the effect of the hardness of speech on the recipients of that speech, as through experience
one learns--after one's second attendance at a wake--to discount something of the too voluble
sorrow of keening.

That the candor of Synge, in allowing his people of hard nature or of careless nature to say
the ruthless things native to their minds and temper, hurts many, there is proof every time
one sees a play of his on the stage. You will hear women about you gasp with mingled surprise
and disgust, their sensibilities wholly outraged, but unwilling laughter in their minds when
the Widow Quinn says to Christy, after his praise of Pegeen, "There's poetry talk for a girl
you'd see itching and scratching, and she with a stale stink of poteen on her from selling
in the shop." Such gasps are nothing, however, to those they utter when they hear Mary Doul
tell Molly Byrne "when the skin shrinks on your chin, Molly Byrne, there won't be the like
of you for a shrunk hag in the four quarters of Ireland."

Very different is the kind of laughter aroused by the sly malice, native to the rogue story
from the days in which its characters masqueraded as animals, that is revealed in the remark
of Mary Byrne to the priest, "It's destroyed you must be hearing the sins of the rural people
in a fine spring"; and different again the childish delight in the extravagance at Christy's
threat to send Shawn Keogh "coaching out through Limbo with my father's ghost"; and still different
the breathless, delighted wonderment in the sense of moral values exhibited by Michael James,
when, fearing that Christy's threatened murder of Shawn, if carried out, would give his secret
trade away, he jumps up with a shriek, exclaiming, "Murder is it? Is it mad you's are? Would
you go making murder in this place, and it piled with poteen for our drink to-night?" Different
too, is the laughter at the Rabelaisian touches and at the farcical situations in which the
plays abound.

If ever there were characters that lived a life apart from their author's, those characters
are Synge's. It is in the verses and in the travel sketches that we get the man himself, the
man back of the dramatist that gives to his characters a life independent of his own, a life
that he knows partly in reality and partly in imagination, but that he himself has lived chiefly
as an observer and imaginer. There is no humor in these verses and travel sketches, not even
when he is describing a humorous scene such as that of the upsetting by pigs running wild of
the constabulary busy about evictions on Inishmaan. We get the man himself, I say, in these
verses and travel sketches, a man exulting in primitiveness, in wildness, in beauty of woman
and child, in beauty of landscape; but exulting, more than in all else, in his own moods aroused
by these things that he loved. Even here, however, he is at times almost impossibly impersonal,
so that you feel in a certain description that there is no man between you and the thing described,
but that, to adapt a phrase of Thoreau, it is the hills and the sea and the atmosphere writing.
This impersonality persists even in "The Aran Islands," so large a part of which is very personal
in that it is a statement of his daily life on Inishmaan. It is not, however, from the impersonal
writing that I would quote,--though I would emphasize this impersonality because it is part
of the very nature of the man,--but from the personal parts, because they reveal more of the
positive part of him. After a day of storm on Inishmaan, the middle island of the three that
make up the Aran group, Synge writes: "About the sunset the clouds broke and the storm turned
to a hurricane. Bars of purple cloud stretched across the sound where immense waves were rolling
from the west, wreathed with snowy fantasies of spray. Then there was the bay full of green
delirium and the Twelve Pins touched with mauve and scarlet in the east." That is the Connacht
coast, and this the next paragraph is Synge: "The suggestion from this world of inarticulate
power was immense, and now at midnight, when the wind is abating, I am still trembling and
flushed with exultation." And here is Synge again, in another temper, which came to him on
the seas about Inishmaan: "The black curagh working slowly through this world of gray, and
the soft hissing of the rain, gave me one of the moods in which we realize with immense distress
the short moment we have left us to experience all the wonder and beauty of the world."

"The Aran Islands" is most memorable of his travel writings, because he spent more time on
these rocks at the world's end and came closest here to the soul of Irish life. There are passages,
however, in his description of the Kerry coast, and even in his newspaper sketches of the coast
of Connemara, that tell not only of the places but of their visitor. "I got on a long road
running through a bog," he writes in "In West Kerry," "with a smooth mountain on one side and
the sea on the other, and Brandon in front of me, partly covered with clouds. As far as I could
see there were little groups of people on their way to the chapel at Ballyferriter, the men
in homespun and the women wearing blue cloaks, or, more often, black shawls twisted over their
heads. This procession along the olive bogs, between the mountains and the sea, on this gray
day of autumn, seemed to wring me with the pang of emotion one meets everywhere in Ireland,
an emotion that is partly local and patriotic, and partly a share of the desolation that is
mixed everywhere with the supreme beauty of the world."

The comment on Ireland, her ways and her place among the peoples, that many a dramatist would
have permitted himself to express through some character chosen to play chorus to the action,
Synge now and then permits himself in the travel sketches. In "From Galway to Gorumna," which
he wrote for the "Manchester Guardian's" investigation of the congested districts, is one of
such rare avowals, an avowal to treasure along with those of his all too short prefaces: "It
is part of the misfortune of Ireland that nearly all the characteristics which give color and
attractiveness to Irish life [he has been speaking of 'men dressed in homespuns of the gray
natural wool, and the women in deep madder-dyed petticoats and bodices, with brown shawls over
their heads'] are bound up with a social condition that is near to penury, while in countries
like Brittany the best external features of the local life--the rich embroidered dresses, for
instance, or the carved furniture--are connected with a decent and comfortable social condition."

It is this penury, perhaps, and its gray background that by way of contrast emphasize so strongly
the moments of splendor that Irish landscape knows. One such moment Synge saw as he looked
southward across the bay from the Dingle peninsula toward Killarney: "The blueness of the sea
and the hills from Carrantuohill to the Skelligs, the singular loneliness of the hillside I
was on, with a few choughs and gulls in sight only, had a splendor that was almost a grief
in the mind."

This splendor Synge found also in his own Wicklow, a lonelier country than Aran, if loneliness
comes from absence of human life. And if there is not the loneliness of the sea in the inland
glens that Synge knew so well, there is in them the equal loneliness of the mountains. It is
this county of Wicklow that is the background of "In the Shadow of the Glen" and of "The Well
of the Saints" and of "The Tinker's Wedding." And perhaps had not the Abbey Theatre grown to
be a theatre for folk-drama and for poetic drama of court romance alone, Synge would have made
Wicklow the background of dramas of a high life of yesterday. Certain it is that in these passages
he is thinking of it:--

     Every one is used in Ireland to the tragedy that is bound up with
     the lives of farmers and fishing-people; but in this garden one
     seemed to feel the tragedy of the landlord class also, and of the
     innumerable old families that are quickly dwindling away. These
     owners of the land are not much pitied at the present day, or much
     deserving of pity; and yet one cannot quite forget that they are
     the descendants of what was at one time, in the eighteenth century,
     a high-spirited and highly cultivated aristocracy. The broken
     greenhouses and mouse-eaten libraries, that were designed and
     collected by men who voted with Grattan, are perhaps as mournful in
     the end as the four mud walls that are so often left in Wicklow as
     the only remnants of a farmhouse. The desolation of this life is
     often of a peculiarly local kind, and if a playwright chose to go
     through the Irish country houses he would find material, it is
     likely, for many gloomy plays that would turn on the dying away of
     these old families, and on the lives of the one or two delicate
     girls that are left so often to represent a dozen hearty men who
     were alive a generation or two ago.

I have dwelt on these travel sketches of Synge not alone for their own sake, but because they
are, as I have said, the background of the plays, and because they contain what are in a sense
the diary notes out of which the plays grew. In a sense, too, they are a commentary on the
plays, and as I have also said a revelation of the playwright. All must be read for a thorough
understanding of the plays, though these alone should be a delight to all, even if they know
no more of Ireland than that share of human nature which is axiomatically the same in all men
of all races. If you do not read the travel sketches, you may fail to see how deeply sympathetic
Synge is with the Irish peasant, and in no patronizing way. In "The Aran Islands" he takes
the greatest care to disguise the identity of those he knew intimately lest they be pained
by anything he wrote of them. No one could write with higher courtesy of those whose guest
he had been than Synge. You, reading, are made one of their home circle, but no family secrets
are betrayed. You are made aware of their weaknesses, but there is never any disloyalty; and
always in his records of them their virtues of courage and endurance, of adaptiveness and simplicity,
of family stanchness and communal helpfulness, outweigh the drunkenness and roguery that one
expects from the primitive. Synge is, indeed, not only loyal, but full of respect and liking
for the Aran Islanders, and of admiration for their rich humanity.

It was out of his island life and out of his life of the roads, and out of his mood, once he
knew his doom, that he made the twenty-two poems of his that are retained of a great deal that
he had written, most of it in his younger years. That Synge faced his fate with bravery the
triumphant tone of "Deirdre of the Sorrows" that I have instanced is proof, but there could
not but be moments when the thought of death was too instant to be denied. It was in such mood
he wrote, either toward the end, or in earlier moments of anticipation of it, "Queens," "On
an Anniversary," "To the Oaks of Glencree," "A Question," and "I've Thirty Months." There is
in these verses a certain morbidity, an almost ghoulishness, that is very seldom present elsewhere
in his writing. And yet I may be wrong in attributing it to his certainty of approaching death,
for there is a more intense preoccupation with death in the plays of M. Maeterlinck's youth
and a greater ghoulishness in the verse of Mr. Hardy's youth. It is of Mr. Hardy's verses that
one thinks oftenest as one reads these verses of Synge, and not only because of certain likenesses
in subject-matter, but because of the imperfect mastery of both over the verse forms and a
certain epigrammatic gnomic quality common to both. The verses of Synge are not relatively
so important in comparison with the rest of his writing as Mr. Hardy's verses are in comparison
with the rest of his writing, for they are not needed to explain a philosophy of life as are
Mr. Hardy's verses. Fortunately, Synge attempted no philosophy, had the rare wisdom to rest
content with observation.

In regard to poetry, as to all his art, Synge had, however, definite views, though his verse
is almost too little in bulk to exemplify them. It was the poetry of exaltation, as it was
the drama of exaltation, as it was the exaltation in living, of change and speed and danger
and love, that meant most to him. He held further that "in these days poetry is usually a flower
of evil or good; but it is the timber of poetry that wears most surely, and there is no timber
that has not strong roots among the clay and worms." The verse of Synge, as all his art, was
so rooted, surely.

It is sayings of this sort that bring to mind his kinship with Whitman, to whom he is also
bound by the freemasonry of the roads. Both men felt the call of the road; both loved the changing
landscape and the little adventures of the caravansaries; both loved most of all the men and
women they met. Once only Synge seems to have forgotten humanity when he took to the road,
that time which he has recorded in "Prelude":--

  "Still south I went and west and south again,
  Through Wicklow from the morning till the night,
  And far from cities, and the sights of men,
  Lived with the sunshine, and the moon's delight.

  "I knew the stars, the flowers, and the birds,
  The gray and wintry sides of many glens,
  And did but half remember human words,
  In converse with the mountains, moors, and fens."

It is to this, to the wandering wayside life of Synge that one's thought of him always returns,
and rightly, for it was the road that most inspired him. It is the memory of the road that
most kindles him; and so it is always to the man of the road that he gives his most lyric passages;
or, perhaps, I should say it is the speech that the thought of the man of the roads or of the
woman of wild heart raises in his mind that is his most beautiful speech, with the very wildness
of the wandering heart in it, and with the long swing that comes, with second wind, when you
have been a day abroad on the road.

What if the words have now the clauber of the roads upon them, and even the muck, and now the
reek of the shebeen or of the tinker's fire in a roadside ditch; they have, too, the bog smell,
and the smell of the whin, the smell of ploughed land and of the sea, and they fall into cadences
that are cadences of the wind and of the tides, of full rivers and clucking streams that sudden
rains have filled, as well as the cadences of the voices of boy and girl and they love-making,
and of the voices of the wild folk of the roads coaxing or loudly quarreling, and the voices
of women and men, young and old, lamenting the hard way of life and of the sorrow that waits
for all in the end. Why quarrel with Synge, in short, because his style is of the very essence
of life, and of nature, which is the background of life?

To attain a style that is his very self, that is of the very color of his life, and of the
very color of the extravagant phases of the life of his country, to attain a style that embodies
all this, and that for the first time sets English dramatic prose to a rhythm as noble as the
rhythm of blank verse, is surely in itself title to greatness. But Synge has other titles,
too. In the few characters that he has created, forty in all, characters all natively Irish,
he has attained universality, because these Irish men and women, Nora and Martin Doul, Sarah
Casey and Christy Mahon, Maurya and Deirdre, are so human that they are prototypes of men and
women the world over. And of dialogue, where style and characterization blend, he has sure
control. Each character of the six great characters that I have just mentioned speaks and acts
just as such a character would, and not only these, but every other character that occupies
the stage for more than a moment. Michael Dara and Timmy the Smith, the Priest or Philly Cullen,
Bartley and Owen, each one has an individuality clearly defined.

There is less that is great in the structure of his plays than in any other component of them,
but that structure always clearly reveals the action which arises from the emotion and theme
underlying each,--the menacing sea in "Riders to the Sea"; the loneliness of the mountain glens
that drives men fey in "The Shadow of the Glen"; the blindness, the blessed self-delusion of
mankind, in "The Well of the Saints"; the wildness of the life of the roads that law may not
tame, in "The Tinker's Wedding"; the boy's finding of himself through his having to live up
to a community's mistaken ideal of him, in "The Playboy of the Western World"; and the benison
of death that prevents a great love from dying, in "Deirdre of the Sorrows."

Always the joy of making something beautiful out of his experience and dream of life is what
inspires Synge to write, and though the intention to read life truly is a passion with him,
there is never a suggestion of didacticism, or even of moralizing, though "The Well of the
Saints" is unquestionably, whether he wills it so or not, a symbol of man's discontent with
things as they are, his preference in some things of the lie to the truth. I think that Synge
did not will to make "The Well of the Saints" a symbol, and that the play was to him but a
reading of life, as life is, in his characteristic, exalted, ironic, extravagant way of writing,
and that if he was aware of the symbolism, he was not keenly aware of it or much interested
in it. He gives us life untroubled by the passing agitation of the day, and for that we should
be thankful, and thankful, too, that he has given in his plays "the nourishment, not very easy
to define, on which our imaginations live." His irony, as desolating to some as the irony of
Swift, gives pause to all, as insight always will, but to me his extravagance is a joy unalloyed,
and his exaltation, so rare a thing in modern literature, should bring to all men delight and
refreshment of spirit. No reading, or seeing and hearing, of his plays leaves me without a
feeling of richness or without wonder and large content. He gives back my youth to me, both
in the theatre and in my library, and, in the glow that is mine in such recapture, I call him
the greatest dramatist in English that our stage has known in a century. That I know him to
be on sober second thought, second thought that has been concerned with his art, as I followed
it developing during the slow years from "Riders to the Sea" to "Deirdre of the Sorrows." That
phrase arrests one on the first page of his little book of verse "Wild Earth" (1909), in the
first poem, "The Plougher." It refers, of course, to an elemental man of to-day, to the peasant
of the great central plain of Ireland, who is "brute-tamer, plough-maker, earth-breaker," just
as truly as it does to the breaker of horses who drove furrows with a tree-knee through primordial
mould; and it carries us in imagination back to the man of the Stone Age by way of many other
ploughmen, by way of the last man we saw between plough-handles who appealed to our imagination,
a man limned against an April sky from which the sun had passed to leave all the west that
gold-green that the greatest of Westmoreland dalesmen loved; by way of that Dumfries peasant whose

                         "conquering share
  Upturned the fallow fields of truth anew";

by way of Wayland Smith, whose anvils dot the shores of Britain; by way of Tubal Cain, "an
artificer in brass and iron," of the seed of Cain, "a tiller of the ground."

One wonders is it not of himself that the poet writes, though what he writes takes us far from
him, carrying us in thought halfway round the world and back through civilizations that have
passed. But whether it is of himself that Mr. Colum writes or not, he is certainly, in a sense,
"The dawn-man ... in the sunset." The "Glory of the Gael" that is to-day, if it is "glory,"
is glory of sunset, of "purples and splendors" that pass; there are those who hold that the
race that "went forth to battle," but "always fell," is already passed beyond the sunset, into
the twilight, that twilight that is the time of day so surely symbolical of the writing of
the many Irish poets that have followed after Mr. Yeats. Mr. Colum, however, whether his race
be in twilight or sunset, is of the dawn. He is of the dawn not only because he is the youth,
at oldest the young man, in his writing, who sees the world freshly and fresh, none the less
fresh because he knows it old; but he is of the dawn because it is chiefly those things that
are fundamentals, that come out of the beginnings of things, that interest him profoundly,
that stir him deeply. Subtleties and complexities, decadent things, are not for him, but simplicities,
primordial things, the love of wandering, and what is only less old, the love of land; and
love of woman. These three things, and youth, and little else, concern him. Mr. Colum writes,
indeed, in the dedication to "Thomas Muskerry" (1910) that he has set down "three characters
that stood as first types in my human comedy, the peasant, the artist, the official, Murtagh
Cosgar, Conn Hourican, Thomas Muskerry." It is not, however, the official that Mr. Colum emphasizes
in "Thomas Muskerry," but the man who longs for a quiet little place where he may be free from
the nagging of his daughter and her children; and in Myles Gorman, in this same play, is sounded
that other call that is recurrent in his work, the call of the road. We see more of wanderer
than of artist, too, in Conn Hourican, though Mr. Colum calls the play he made for him "The
Fiddler's House"; and here, too, the love of land is a motive--love of land and the wander-love
battle in "The Land" (1905), with love of woman the deciding factor in the latter's victory.

Mr. Colum would not be an Irishman if nationality and religion were not also motives in his
plays and poems, but it is only in his 'prentice work that either appears as a leading motive.
From a good deal of writing, most of which appeared originally in "The United Irishmen," he
has republished only the three plays before mentioned, "The Land" (1905), "The Fiddler's House"
(1907), "Thomas Muskerry" (1910), his miracle play, "The Miracle of the Corn," and two stories
in "Studies" (1907), and what he wishes to preserve of his verse in "Wild Earth" (1909).

It was through "The Daughters of Erin" that Mr. Colum came in touch with the dramatic movement.
Their plays and tableaux in the Antient Concert Rooms in 1900 attracted his attention, and
he wrote to the secretary, inclosing with the note copies of two plays that he had written--the
dramatic achievements of his late 'teens. These plays were about the "Children of Lir," that
one of "The Three Sorrows of Story-Telling" that is less poignant than the story of Deirdre
only because it is less human, and about Brian Boru, the high king that beat back the Danes
at Clontarf. Faery and mediæval history were not destined, however, to be Mr. Colum's field,
and Mr. Fay, then stage manager of the Association productions, probably helped him on the
way to his true field, the life of the peasant of the Midlands, by declaring them rubbish.
Two years later Mr. Colum had learned enough about life and about the stage to write a play
against enlistment in the English army that held the attention of audiences and was regarded
as good propagandist "stuff." "The Saxon Shillin'," produced May 15, 1903, Mr. Colum has not
republished, nor "The Kingdom of the Young" (1902), which like its predecessor was published
in "The United Irishmen." With this last play, as its title indicates, Mr. Colum found his
way to that subject of youth, which, whatever other one of his dominant motives his plays may
involve, is always present. The hardness of youth is the theme of "The Kingdom of the Young,"
the hardness that came into the heart of a daughter, when driven into revolt by the older generation.
She turns on her father in the end, determined that she will not be cheated of the joy of life
as was he.

In "The Foleys," another little play of the same year, 1902, a play that for all its crudity
and incompleteness is full of insight into Catholic Ireland, youth is again the theme, or the
intolerance and self-righteousness of youth. "Eoghan's Wife" (1902) is only a monologue, only
the old story of the woman who finds her home lonely and depressing because the wrong man is
the man of the house. She looks out over "brown bogs with black water," wondering what is the
way of escape from it all.

"Broken Soil," put on at the Abbey Theatre on December 4, 1903, is the first play of Mr. Colum
with which, in after years, he was in any way content, but he was not too content with it,
rewriting it in 1907 as "The Fiddler's House," and, I think, in the main improving it.

Mr. Colum, a youth with an appetite for reading as insatiable as his impulse to write, read
not only his Ibsen but his M. Maeterlinck. Back of "Broken Soil" is Ibsen, back of "The Miracle
of the Corn" is M. Maeterlinck. "The Miracle of the Corn" was put in rehearsal by the Irish
National Theatre Society in 1904, but so far as I know it was never played by that organization,
its first staging I have record of being by "The Theatre of Ireland" at the Abbey Theatre on
May 22, 1908. Here again is youth a leading theme, the power youth has, if it be wistful and
tender and pleading, to soften the heart of age. It may seem to some that the girl Aislinn
is only a symbol, only the dream of his youth returned to the farmer Fardorrougha, who has
hardened his heart even in famine time, but whether apparition, or child of the flesh and symbol,
too, Aislinn is the bringer-back to Fardorrougha of the soft heart of youth.

As the Irishman in America is preferably a city dweller, it may be a little difficult for his
fellow Americans of other ancestry to understand why the Irishmen at home were so concerned
with Mr. Colum's next play, whose theme, as whose title, is "The Land." The cry for a home
and a bit of land, a cottage around a hearth and around the cottage a few acres of your own,
is a cry that has been heard in all ages and among all people. It is a cry that we all have
cried at times, gypsy-hearted though we be; it is a cry that even the city-loving eighteenth
century raised in all the "Mine be a cot" poems, whether of Pomfret or Pope or any other of
the many who followed the same fashion, and it is a cry that is especially loud in present-day
America. But none of us can feel the call of the land, none of us can desire it with more intensity
than the Irishman of to-day, city-dweller though we find his kin in America; there is no one
class of people anywhere in the world who want the land as the Irish peasants of to-day want
it. Their fathers and grandfathers saw the fields that they had farmed turned into pastures
for cattle, as the Scotch crofters saw their holdings turned into deer-parks; the two generations
of Irishmen now respectively in old age and middle age have known what it is to be taxed out
of the places their improvements as tenants made more valuable; and to-day those of the old
folk that are still alive and those of the middle years that are still in Ireland are getting
back to the land, along with the younger generation that desires it almost as ardently, but
were not born upon it, profiting by legislation that compels landlords to sell to the Government,
which in turn sells to the small proprietors.

The Irish peasant loves his bit of land far more than his language, and even more, I think,
in the bottom of his heart, than he loves his church, although allegiance to his church is
a duty that he puts before any love. A boreen in bogland is not a lonely place to the Irish
peasant if he have neighbors of long standing. It is the big city that to him at home seems
the lonely place, despite the glamour of its lights, and its shops, and its ceaseless excitements.

The story of "The Land" is, as I have said, the story of the struggle between love of land
and the Wanderlust, with the love of woman as the decisive factor in the latter's victory.
Matt Cosgar is the son of a peasant farmer, the last of many that the hardness of Murtagh has
driven to America, and he, too, goes in the end, after his father's will is broken, because
the girl of his choice is restless and will not be content as a farmer's wife. Matt and Ellen,
the fit and the strong, go to America, Cornelius and Sally, the hair-brained and the drudge,
remain. Symbolic this is, of course, of the situation in Ireland to-day, or at least yesterday,
but the characters are strongly individualized and show no tendency to harden into types. In
"The Land" the restlessness of youth, its call to wander, is the motive that clashes with love
of the home and of the home place. In "The Fiddler's House" there is youth desiring peace,
and youth afraid of love, in Annie and Maire Hourican; and the call of the road to old Conn,
the fiddler. Sacrifice is rare in youth, and if it were not that Maire is afraid of her love
for Brian McConnell, and gives up her home and takes to the road with her father partly because
she fears her love for her lover, fears her powerlessness with him, it would hardly be in the
course of nature that she would sacrifice so much for her sister. It was a sure instinct that
guided Mr. Colum so to make believable a sacrifice at first view seemingly so great. Even in
this play, which Mr. Colum intends as a study of the artistic temperament, the land is a motive
second only to the call of the road. Maire cared somewhat for the land, less than her sister
cared, more than her father cared, though he too loved it in so far as the artist's gypsy nature
will permit. It is the road and his music, however, that Conn cares for most, and in his expression
of such love he attains to an eloquence that is Mr. Colum at his best: "I'm leaving the land
behind me, too; but what's the land, after all, against the music that comes from the far strange
places, when the night is on the ground, and the bird in the grass is quiet?" As one reads,
aloud, as one must, one thinks now of the Old Testament and now of Synge.

