The deserted rookery was sure to be above high-water mark at all times; and we mounted the
rocky ledge in search of a place to pitch our tents.  The penguins knew better than to rest
where the sea could reach them even when the highest tide was supported by the strongest gale.
The disadvantages of a camp on the rookery were obvious.  The smell was strong, to put it mildly,
and was not likely to grow less pronounced when the warmth of our bodies thawed the surface.
But our choice of places was not wide, and that afternoon we dug out a site for two tents in
the debris of the rookery, levelling it off with snow and rocks.  My tent, No. 1, was pitched
close under the cliff, and there during my stay on Elephant Island I lived.  Crean's tent was
close by, and the other three tents, which had fairly clean snow under them, were some yards
away.  The fifth tent was a ramshackle affair.  The material of the torn eight-man tent had
been drawn over a rough framework of oars, and shelter of a kind provided for the men who occupied
it.

The arrangement of our camp, the checking of our gear, the killing and skinning of seals and
sea-elephants occupied us during the day, and we took to our sleeping-bags early. I and my
companions in No. 1 tent were not destined to spend a pleasant night.  The heat of our bodies
soon melted the snow and refuse beneath us and the floor of the tent became an evil smelling
yellow mud.  The snow drifting from the cliff above us weighted the sides of the tent, and
during the night a particularly stormy gust brought our little home down on top of us.  We
stayed underneath the snow-laden cloth till the morning, for it seemed a hopeless business
to set about re-pitching the tent amid the storm that was raging in the darkness of the night.

The weather was still bad on the morning of April 19.  Some of the men were showing signs of
demoralization.  They were disinclined to leave the tents when the hour came for turning out,
and it was apparent they were thinking more of the discomforts of the moment than of the good
fortune that had brought us to sound ground and comparative safety. The condition of the gloves
and headgear shown me by some discouraged men illustrated the proverbial carelessness of the
sailor.  The articles had frozen stiff during the night, and the owners considered, it appeared,
that this state of affairs provided them with a grievance, or at any rate gave them the right
to grumble.  They said they wanted dry clothes and that their health would not admit of their
doing any work.  Only by rather drastic methods were they induced to turn to. Frozen gloves
and helmets undoubtedly are very uncomfortable, and the proper thing is to keep these articles
thawed by placing them inside one's shirt during the night.

The southerly gale, bringing with it much snow, was so severe that as I went along the beach
to kill a seal I was blown down by a gust. The cooking-pots from No. 2 tent took a flying run
into the sea at the same moment.  A case of provisions which had been placed on them to keep
them safe had been capsized by a squall.  These pots, fortunately, were not essential, since
nearly all our cooking was done over the blubber- stove.  The galley was set up by the rocks
close to my tent, in a hole we had dug through the debris of the penguin rookery.  Cases of
stores gave some shelter from the wind and a spread sail kept some of the snow off the cook
when he was at work. He had not much idle time.  The amount of seal and sea-elephant steak
and blubber consumed by our hungry party was almost incredible.  He did not lack assistance--the
neighbourhood of the blubber-stove had attractions for every member of the party; but he earned
everybody's gratitude by his unflagging energy in preparing meals that to us at least were
savoury and satisfying. Frankly, we needed all the comfort that the hot food could give us.
The icy fingers of the gale searched every cranny of our beach and pushed relentlessly through
our worn garments and tattered tents.  The snow, drifting from the glacier and falling from
the skies, swathed us and our gear and set traps for our stumbling feet.  The rising sea beat
against the rocks and shingle and tossed fragments of floe-ice within a few feet of our boats.
Once during the morning the sun shone through the racing clouds and we had a glimpse of blue
sky; but the promise of fair weather was not redeemed.  The consoling feature of the situation
was that our camp was safe.  We could endure the discomforts, and I felt that all hands would
be benefited by the opportunity for rest and recuperation.

CHAPTER IX

THE BOAT JOURNEY

The increasing sea made it necessary for us to drag the boats farther up the beach.  This was
a task for all hands, and after much labour we got the boats into safe positions among the
rocks and made fast the painters to big boulders.  Then I discussed with Wild and Worsley the
chances of reaching South Georgia before the winter locked the seas against us.  Some effort
had to be made to secure relief.  Privation and exposure had left their mark on the party,
and the health and mental condition of several men were causing me serious anxiety. Blackborrow's
feet, which had been frost-bitten during the boat journey, were in a bad way, and the two doctors
feared that an operation would be necessary.  They told me that the toes would have to be amputated
unless animation could be restored within a short period. Then the food-supply was a vital
consideration.  We had left ten cases of provisions in the crevice of the rocks at our first
camping-place on the island. An examination of our stores showed that we had full rations for
the whole party for a period of five weeks.  The rations could be spread over three months
on a reduced allowance and probably would be supplemented by seals and sea-elephants to some
extent.  I did not dare to count with full confidence on supplies of meat and blubber, for
the animals seemed to have deserted the beach and the winter was near.  Our stocks included
three seals and two and a half skins (with blubber attached).  We were mainly dependent on
the blubber for fuel, and, after making a preliminary survey of the situation, I decided that
the party must be limited to one hot meal a day.

A boat journey in search of relief was necessary and must not be delayed.  That conclusion
was forced upon me.  The nearest port where assistance could certainly be secured was Port
Stanley, in the Falkland Islands, 540 miles away, but we could scarcely hope to beat up against
the prevailing north-westerly wind in a frail and weakened boat with a small sail area.  South
Georgia was over 800 miles away, but lay in the area of the west winds, and I could count upon
finding whalers at any of the whaling-stations on the east coast.  A boat party might make
the voyage and be back with relief within a month, provided that the sea was clear of ice and
the boat survive the great seas.  It was not difficult to decide that South Georgia must be
the objective, and I proceeded to plan ways and means.  The hazards of a boat journey across
800 miles of stormy sub-Antarctic ocean were obvious, but I calculated that at worst the venture
would add nothing to the risks of the men left on the island.  There would be fewer mouths
to feed during the winter and the boat would not require to take more than one month's provisions
for six men, for if we did not make South Georgia in that time we were sure to go under.  A
consideration that had weight with me was that there was no chance at all of any search being
made for us on Elephant Island.

The case required to be argued in some detail, since all hands knew that the perils of the
proposed journey were extreme.  The risk was justified solely by our urgent need of assistance.
The ocean south of Cape Horn in the middle of May is known to be the most tempestuous storm-swept
area of water in the world.  The weather then is unsettled, the skies are dull and overcast,
and the gales are almost unceasing. We had to face these conditions in a small and weather-beaten
boat, already strained by the work of the months that had passed.  Worsley and Wild realized
that the attempt must be made, and they both asked to be allowed to accompany me on the voyage.
I told Wild at once that he would have to stay behind.  I relied upon him to hold the party
together while I was away and to make the best of his way to Deception Island with the men
in the spring in the event of our failure to bring help.  Worsley I would take with me, for
I had a very high opinion of his accuracy and quickness as a navigator, and especially in the
snapping and working out of positions in difficult circumstances--an opinion that was only
enhanced during the actual journey.  Four other men would be required, and I decided to call
for volunteers, although, as a matter of fact, I pretty well knew which of the people I would
select.  Crean I proposed to leave on the island as a right-hand man for Wild, but he begged
so hard to be allowed to come in the boat that, after consultation with Wild, I promised to
take him.  I called the men together, explained my plan, and asked for volunteers. Many came
forward at once.  Some were not fit enough for the work that would have to be done, and others
would not have been much use in the boat since they were not seasoned sailors, though the experiences
of recent months entitled them to some consideration as seafaring men.  McIlroy and Macklin
were both anxious to go but realized that their duty lay on the island with the sick men. They
suggested that I should take Blackborrow in order that he might have shelter and warmth as
quickly as possible, but I had to veto this idea.  It would be hard enough for fit men to live
in the boat.  Indeed, I did not see how a sick man, lying helpless in the bottom of the boat,
could possibly survive in the heavy weather we were sure to encounter.  I finally selected
McNeish, McCarthy, and Vincent in addition to Worsley and Crean.  The crew seemed a strong
one, and as I looked at the men I felt confidence increasing.

The decision made, I walked through the blizzard with Worsley and Wild to examine the 'James
Caird'.  The 20-ft. boat had never looked big; she appeared to have shrunk in some mysterious
way when I viewed her in the light of our new undertaking.  She was an ordinary ship's whaler,
fairly strong, but showing signs of the strains she had endured since the crushing of the 'Endurance'.
Where she was holed in leaving the pack was, fortunately, about the water-line and easily patched.
Standing beside her, we glanced at the fringe of the storm-swept, tumultuous sea that formed
our path. Clearly, our voyage would be a big adventure.  I called the carpenter and asked him
if he could do anything to make the boat more seaworthy.  He first inquired if he was to go
with me, and seemed quite pleased when I said "Yes."  He was over fifty years of age and not
altogether fit, but he had a good knowledge of sailing-boats and was very quick.  McCarthy
said that he could contrive some sort of covering for the 'James Caird' if he might use the
lids of the cases and the four sledge-runners that we had lashed inside the boat for use in
the event of a landing on Graham Land at Wilhelmina Bay.  This bay, at one time the goal of
our desire, had been left behind in the course of our drift, but we had retained the runners.
The carpenter proposed to complete the covering with some of our canvas; and he set about making
his plans at once.

Noon had passed and the gale was more severe than ever.  We could not proceed with our preparations
that day.  The tents were suffering in the wind and the sea was rising.  We made our way to
the snow-slope at the shoreward end of the spit, with the intention of digging a hole in the
snow large enough to provide shelter for the party.  I had an idea that Wild and his men might
camp there during my absence, since it seemed impossible that the tents could hold together
for many more days against the attacks of the wind; but an examination of the spot indicated
that any hole we could dig probably would be filled quickly by the drift.  At dark, about 5
p.m., we all turned in, after a supper consisting of a pannikin of hot milk, one of our precious
biscuits, and a cold penguin leg each.

The gale was stronger than ever on the following morning (April 20). No work could be done.
Blizzard and snow, snow and blizzard, sudden lulls and fierce returns.  During the lulls we
could see on the far horizon to the north-east bergs of all shapes and sizes driving along
before the gale, and the sinister appearance of the swift-moving masses made us thankful indeed
that, instead of battling with the storm amid the ice, we were required only to face the drift
from the glaciers and the inland heights. The gusts might throw us off our feet, but at least
we fell on solid ground and not on the rocking floes.  Two seals came up on the beach that
day, one of them within ten yards of my tent.  So urgent was our need of food and blubber that
I called all hands and organized a line of beaters instead of simply walking up to the seal
and hitting it on the nose.  We were prepared to fall upon this seal en masse if it attempted
to escape. The kill was made with a pick-handle, and in a few minutes five days' food and six
days' fuel were stowed in a place of safety among the boulders above high-water mark.  During
this day the cook, who had worked well on the floe and throughout the boat journey, suddenly
collapsed.  I happened to be at the galley at the moment and saw him fall.  I pulled him down
the slope to his tent and pushed him into its shelter with orders to his tent-mates to keep
him in his sleeping-bag until I allowed him to come out or the doctors said he was fit enough.
Then I took out to replace the cook one of the men who had expressed a desire to lie down and
die.  The task of keeping the galley fire alight was both difficult and strenuous, and it took
his thoughts away from the chances of immediate dissolution.  In fact, I found him a little
later gravely concerned over the drying of a naturally not over-clean pair of socks which were
hung up in close proximity to our evening milk.  Occupation had brought his thoughts back to
the ordinary cares of life.

