If the principle of interest rightly understood had nothing but the present world in view,
it would be very insufficient; for there are many sacrifices which can only find their recompense
in another; and whatever ingenuity may be put forth to demonstrate the utility of virtue, it
will never be an easy task to make that man live aright who has no thoughts of dying. It is
therefore necessary to ascertain whether the principle of interest rightly understood is easily
compatible with religious belief. The philosophers who inculcate this system of morals tell
men, that to be happy in this life they must watch their own passions and steadily control
their excess; that lasting happiness can only be secured by renouncing a thousand transient
gratifications; and that a man must perpetually triumph over himself, in order to secure his
own advantage. The founders of almost all religions have held the same language. The track
they point out to man is the same, only that the goal is more remote; instead of placing in
this world the reward of the sacrifices they impose, they transport it to another. Nevertheless
I cannot believe that all those who practise virtue from religious motives are only actuated
by the hope of a recompense. I have known zealous Christians who constantly forgot themselves,
to work with greater ardor for the happiness of their fellow-men; and I have heard them declare
that all they did was only to earn the blessings of a future state. I cannot but think that
they deceive themselves; I respect them too much to believe them.

Christianity indeed teaches that a man must prefer his neighbor to himself, in order to gain
eternal life; but Christianity also teaches that men ought to benefit their fellow-creatures
for the love of God. A sublime expression! Man, searching by his intellect into the divine
conception, and seeing that order is the purpose of God, freely combines to prosecute the great
design; and whilst he sacrifices his personal interests to this consummate order of all created
things, expects no other recompense than the pleasure of contemplating it. I do not believe
that interest is the sole motive of religious men: but I believe that interest is the principal
means which religions themselves employ to govern men, and I do not question that this way
they strike into the multitude and become popular. It is not easy clearly to perceive why the
principle of interest rightly understood should keep aloof from religious opinions; and it
seems to me more easy to show why it should draw men to them. Let it be supposed that, in order
to obtain happiness in this world, a man combats his instinct on all occasions and deliberately
calculates every action of his life; that, instead of yielding blindly to the impetuosity of
first desires, he has learned the art of resisting them, and that he has accustomed himself
to sacrifice without an effort the pleasure of a moment to the lasting interest of his whole
life. If such a man believes in the religion which he professes, it will cost him but little
to submit to the restrictions it may impose. Reason herself counsels him to obey, and habit
has prepared him to endure them. If he should have conceived any doubts as to the object of
his hopes, still he will not easily allow himself to be stopped by them; and he will decide
that it is wise to risk some of the advantages of this world, in order to preserve his rights
to the great inheritance promised him in another. "To be mistaken in believing that the Christian
religion is true," says Pascal, "is no great loss to anyone; but how dreadful to be mistaken
in believing it to be false!"

