 “He is
very old indeed, eccelenza,” was the reply; “he must be nearly twelve!” On being informed that
horses often worked well up to twenty years old and over in England, he let us infer, quite
politely, that he thought we were romancing. Tenderness towards the dumb creation is a common,
not to say a prevailing characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon race, and it must be confessed that
the thoughtless and horrible cruelty towards animals witnessed on all sides in the Neapolitan
Riviera amounts to a serious drawback to the full enjoyment of its many beauties and amenities.
Matters are improving a little of late, it is only fair to add. There is an Italian Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and its officials have done some good in the streets
of Naples itself, but naturally its new ideas have not yet penetrated far into the country
districts.

To the healthy and energetic the most delightful excursion that Castellamare can offer is the
ascent to the summit of Monte Sant’ Angelo, that monarch of the Bay of Naples, whose lofty
crest gleams with snowy streaks until the spring be well advanced. The lazy or the feeble can
make use of one of the poor oppressed donkeys, but it is better to engage its ragged master,
who without his four-footed drudge to whack and kick is a harmless enough being, to act as
guide over the steep ill-defined pathway that leads ever upwards. As we slowly ascend through
the sub-tropical region of fig and vine, of olive and carouba, we question our guide, who in
spite of his bright eyes and well-knit frame seems about as intelligent a companion as the
poor ass left behind in the stall, where he is enjoying, let us hope, an unexpected holiday.
It is not easy to extract information from our native attendant, yet with a little judicious
pressing we learn from him that the top of the mountain, which is our bourne, was once inhabited
by evil spirits, until a holy hermit took up his abode on the peak, since when his sanctity
has kept the place tolerably clear of witches and foul incubi. Wicked sprites, however, still
haunt the spreading woods of beech and chestnut which we must presently traverse, and our guide
(whose name is Vincenzo) admits to us that he would not care to venture there alone, even in
broad daylight. There is, he tells us, warming up at last to the subject, much gold hidden
there, which the spirits guard so jealously that they are ready to tear in pieces any mortal
who is clever enough to find and bold enough to rifle their secret hoards. Only a priest, on
account of his sacred office, is reckoned safe from their iniquitous spells. “But has not any
one dared,” we ask, “to go in company with a holy man, to search for this hidden treasure?”
Well, yes, he had been told that men from Vico had once ventured up into the woods to search
for the gold. With a little encouragement Vincenzo is finally prevailed upon to give us the
whole story, which is evidently of somewhat recent date.

Once upon a time there were four men, one of them being a priest, who lived in Vico, and one
of these men had often been told by his father that in the forests near the top of Monte Sant’
Angelo there lay buried a chest full of gold—molto! molto! The father of the man had been himself
in his youth to search for the treasure, but find it he never could, for he would never take
a priest with him to avert the spells of the evil spirits of the mountain sides, who kept the
place hidden. So this time the man chose two out of his friends, the boldest and the trustiest
he could fix upon, to accompany him, and at the same time he obtained the promise of a cousin,
who was a priest, to assist in the undertaking. All four made their way up to the woods, and
whilst the three men were digging and searching, the priest continued to read aloud the incantations
out of a certain book he had brought with him for the purpose. In course of time the chest
was discovered to the joy of all, and sure enough it was bulging with the desired gold pieces.
They opened it without difficulty, and the four friends divided its contents in equal shares.
Scarcely had the work of division been carried out, than there came a loud voice issuing from
the unknown, calling out the question:—“Che ferete con questo tesoro?” “Mangeremo, beveremo!”
boldly replied one of the group, to whom this sudden accession of wealth offered dreams of
unlimited platters of maccaroni and countless flasks of ruby-red Gragnano in the future. “We
shall eat, we shall drink, but we shall also make abundant alms!” called out another—let us
hope it was the priest!—but no sooner had the word elemosina (alms) been uttered than there
was heard a most terrific rattling of chains, the gold pieces turned to dead leaves in the
affrighted mortals’ hands, and the four men took to their heels and fled in alarm down the
mountain flank.

Vincenzo believes this tale implicitly, just as it was related to him, and he adds to combat
our own incredulity that the priest and one of the men who took part in this strange adventure
were still living and ready to confirm the story, but that of the remaining two, one was now
dead, and the other had been deaf and dumb ever since the event. It seem a pity to criticise
Vincenzo’s simple little narrative, which makes a pretty fairy-story and points a sound moral,
as it stands.

We enter the fresh scented woods that have now replaced in our climb the rich cultivated crops
and terraced gardens, and here amidst the clumps of ancient chestnuts our guide points out
to us the great snow-pits, the contents of which are used to cool the water sold by the acquaioli
during hot summer nights in the sultry streets of Naples. These pits are dug about fifty feet
deep, and half as much across, being conical in shape with a grating placed a short distance
above the tapering base to allow the melted snow to drain off into the soil. The sides of each
pit are first well-lined with straw and leafy branches, and the new-fallen snow shovelled in
and forced into a solid mass by pressure from above, whilst on top is placed a sound thatched
roof. As we wander through the silent woods we see patches of anemones, white and blue, lying
upon the leaf-strewn ground, and beside them in many places are tufts of the pale starry primroses;
coarse spurge, and lush masses of the hellebore with its large pale green flowers and dark
leaves are common enough on all sides. From amongst the naked trees we emerge into the bare
bleak stony stretches that lead to the summit, covered with the coarse but aromatic vegetation
that clothes the dry limestone wastes of the south. How truly marvellous is the description
of these wind-swept, weed-grown solitudes that Robert Browning presents to us in what is perhaps
the most truly Italian in feeling of all his poems, “The Englishman in Italy!” For here with
the rich imagination, worthy of some of Shelley’s finest flights, is mingled an accurate appreciation
of Nature, of which Wordsworth might well be proud; for the Lake poet himself could not have
improved upon this exquisite description of the various shrubs and plants of a limestone hill-top
in Italy.

  “The wild path grew wilder each instant,
    And place was e’en grudged
  ’Mid the rock-chasms and piles of loose stones,
    Like the loose broken teeth
  Of some monster which climbed there to die
    From the ocean beneath—
  Place was grudged to the silver-grey fume-weed
    That clung to the path,
  And dark rosemary ever a-dying,
    That, spite the wind’s wrath,
  So loves the salt rock’s face to seaward,
    And lentisks as staunch
  To the stone where they root and bear berries,
    And ... what shows a branch
  Coral-coloured, transparent, with circlets
    Of pale sea-green leaves.”

Above our heads hovers a kite, performing graceful circles in the keen clear air and breaking
the oppressive silence of the place with his shrill screams, for his mate must have her nest
hidden in some cleft of yon grey towering cliff. A pair of crested hoopoes with brown plumage
and ruddy breasts keep fluttering a little way before us, uttering from time to time their
curious notes of alarm. Mercifully these handsome birds have escaped the fowler, who lays his
snares even amongst the spirit-haunted crags of this desolate region. The hoopoe, though a
very rare visitor to our northern shores, is fairly common on the Mediterranean coast, and
he would be still more frequently encountered, were it not for his hereditary enemy, Man. There
is a venerable legend concerning this interesting bird—bubbola, the Italians call him—which
relates how ages ago on the scorching plains of Palestine a number of hoopoes once followed
King Solomon as he was riding, and in order to protect the great king from the fierce rays
of the sun, they formed themselves into a living screen to shelter the royal head. Grateful
for this welcome attention, Solomon Ben David at eventide sent for the king of the Hoopoes
to ask him what reward he would like to receive for this service, and the answer was promptly
made that a crown of pure gold on the head would be acceptable. The Jewish monarch smiled grimly
as he granted the request, whereupon immediately each bird found his poll decorated with a
tuft of pure golden feathers, and mightily pleased with their new magnificence were the conceited
hoopoes. But alas! the news was quickly spread abroad that there were to be seen strange birds
with plumes of real gold, and the eternal lust of gain at once set men in quest of the hoopoes,
whom they began to slay wholesale with stones, arrows, and traps in order to obtain the coveted
precious metal they bore on their heads. In despair, the king of the hoopoes then flew to the
monarch sitting on his ivory throne at Jerusalem, and begged him to change their golden crowns
for crests of feathers. Solomon the Wise smilingly gave the order; at once lovely red and black
feathers took the place of the golden plumes, and the slaughter of the hoopoes in Palestine
forthwith ceased. And the story, argues the recorder of this lesson upon the folly of personal
adornment, must of necessity be true, for it is certain that the hoopoes bear a crown of feathers
upon their heads unto this day.

Slowly we toil up the last portion of the peak, until we reach the ruined chapel of St Michael
upon its summit, which is still a resort of local pilgrims, although in these days of doubt
and avarice, when “sins are so many and saints so few,” the statue of the Archangel since its
removal from this spot no longer perspires with the sacred dew, which the priests used to collect
with cotton wool on the first day of August and distribute to the peasants of the district.
Like the oil that was once wont to exude from the blessed relics of St Andrew in the Cathedral
of Amalfi, non c’è più; we may possess motor cars and radium, but we must contrive to exist
without these precious exhibitions of the miraculous.

