While in the west Lord Selkirk had gained the respect of the Indians, and in token of their
admiration they gave him the unusual name of the 'Silver Chief,' Selkirk was anxious to extinguish
the ancient title which the Indians had to the lands of Assiniboia, in order to prevent future
disputes.  To effect this he brought together at Fort {132} Douglas a body of chiefs who represented
the Cree and Saulteaux nations.  The Indian chiefs made eloquent speeches.  They said that
they were willing to surrender their claim to a strip on either side of the Red River up-stream
from its mouth as far as the Red Lake river (now Grand Forks, North Dakota), and on either
side of the Assiniboine as far as its junction with the Muskrat.  Selkirk's desire was to obtain
as much on each bank of these streams for the length agreed upon as could be seen under a horse's
belly towards the horizon, or approximately two miles, and the Indians agreed.  At three places--at
Fort Douglas, Fort Daer, and the confluence of the Red and Red Lake rivers--Selkirk wished
to secure about six miles on each side of the Red River, and to this the chiefs agreed.  In
the end, on July 18, 1817, Selkirk concluded a treaty, after distributing presents.  It was
the first treaty made by a subject of Great Britain with the tribes of Rupert's Land.  In signing
it the several chiefs drew odd pictures of animals on a rough map of the territory in question.
These animals were their respective totems and were placed opposite the regions over which
they claimed authority.  It was stipulated {133} that one hundred pounds of good tobacco should
be given annually to each nation.

Having finished his work, Lord Selkirk bade the colony adieu and journeyed southward.  He made
his way through the unorganized territories which had belonged to the United States since the
Louisiana Purchase of 1803, and at length reached the town of St Louis on the Mississippi.
Thence he proceeded to the New England States, and by way of Albany reached the province of
Upper Canada.  Here he found that the agents of the North-West Company had been busy with plans
to attack him in the courts.  There were four charges against him, and he was ordered to appear
at Sandwich, a judicial centre on the Detroit.  The accusations related to his procedure at
Fort William.  Selkirk travelled to Sandwich.  One of the charges was quickly dismissed.  The
other three were held over, pending the arrival of witnesses, and he was released on bail to
the amount of £350.

In May 1818 Colin Robertson and several others were charged at Montreal with the wilful destruction
of Fort Gibraltar, but the jury would not convict the accused upon the evidence presented.
In September, at the {134} judicial sessions at Sandwich, Lord Selkirk was again faced with
charges.  A legal celebrity of the day, Chief Justice Dummer Powell, presided.  The grand jury
complained that John Beverley Robinson, the attorney-general of the province, was interfering
with their deliberations, and they refused to make a presentment.  Chief Justice Powell waited
two days for their answer, and as it was not forthcoming he adjourned the case.  The actions
were afterwards taken to York and were tried there.  For some reason the leaders of the political
faction known in the annals of Upper Canada as the Family Compact were not friendly to Lord
Selkirk; the Rev. John Strachan, the father-confessor of this group of politicians, was an
open opponent.  As a result of the trials Selkirk was mulcted in damages to the extent of £2000.

The courts of Lower Canada alone were empowered to deal with offences in the Indian Territories.
The governor-general of Canada could, however, transfer the trial of such cases to Upper Canada,
if he saw fit.  This had been done in the case of the charges against Selkirk, and Sir John
Sherbrooke, after consulting with the home authorities, decided to refer Selkirk's charges
against the Nor'westers, in {135} connection with the events of 1815 and 1816 on the Red River,
to the court of the King's Bench at its autumn sitting in York.  Beginning in October 1818,
there were successive trials of persons accused by Lord Selkirk of various crimes.  The cases
were heard by Chief Justice Powell, assisted by Judges Boulton and Campbell.  The evidence
in regard to the massacre at Seven Oaks was full of interest.  A passage from the speech of
one of the counsel for the defence shows the ideas then current in Canada as to the value of
the prairie country. Sherwood, one of the counsel, emphatically declared that Robert Semple
was not a governor; he was an emperor.  'Yes, gentlemen,' reiterated Sherwood, his voice rising,
'I repeat, an emperor--a bashaw in that land of milk and honey, where nothing, not even a blade
of corn, will ripen.'  The result of the trials was disheartening to Selkirk.  Of the various
prisoners who were accused not one was found guilty.

Lord Selkirk did not attend the trials of the Nor'westers at York, and seems to have returned
to Britain with his wife and children before the end of the year 1818.  He was ill and in a
most melancholy state of mind.  {136} Unquestionably, he had not secured a full measure of
justice in the courts of Canada.  A man strong in health might have borne his misfortunes more
lightly.  As it was, Selkirk let his wrongs prey upon his spirit.  On March 19, 1819, he addressed
a letter to Lord Liverpool, asking that the Privy Council should intervene in order to correct
the erroneous findings of the Canadian courts.  Sir James Montgomery, Selkirk's brother-in-law,
moved in the House of Commons, on June 24, that all official correspondence touching Selkirk's
affairs should be produced.  The result was the publication of a large blue-book.  An effort
was made to induce Sir Walter Scott to use his literary talents on his friend's behalf.  But
at the time Scott was prostrate with illness and unable to help the friend of his youth.

Meanwhile, Lord Selkirk's attachment for his colony on the Red River had not undergone any
change.  One of the last acts of his life was to seek settlers in Switzerland, and a considerable
number of Swiss families were persuaded to migrate to Assiniboia.  But the heads of these families
were not fitted for pioneer life on the prairie.  For the most part they were poor musicians,
pastry-cooks, {137} clock-makers, and the like, who knew nothing of husbandry.  Their chief
contribution to the colony was a number of buxom, red-cheeked daughters, whose arrival in 1821
created a joyful commotion among the military bachelors at the settlement.  The fair newcomers
were quickly wooed and won by the men who had served in Napoleon's wars, and numerous marriages
followed.

Selkirk's continued ill-health caused him to seek the temperate climate of the south of France,
and there he died on April 8, 1820, at Pau, in the foothills of the Pyrenees.  His body was
taken to Orthez, a small town some twenty-five miles away, and buried there in the Protestant
cemetery.  The length of two countries separates Lord Selkirk's place of burial from his place
of birth.  He has a monument in Scotland and a monument in France, but his most enduring monument
is the great Canadian West of which he was the true founder.  His only son, Dunbar James Douglas,
inherited the title, and when he died in 1885 the line of Selkirk became extinct.  Long before
this the Selkirk family had broken the tie with the Canadian West.  In 1836 their rights in
the country of Assiniboia, in so far as it lay in British territory, {138} were purchased by
the Hudson's Bay Company for the sum of £84,000.

The character of the fifth Earl of Selkirk has been alike lauded and vilified.  Shortly after
his death the Gentleman's Magazine commended his benefactions to the poor and his kindness
as a landlord.  'To the counsels of an enlightened philosophy and an immovable firmness of
purpose,' declared the writer, 'he added the most complete habits of business and a perfect
knowledge of affairs.'  Sir Walter Scott wrote of Selkirk with abundant fervour.  'I never
knew in my life,' said the Wizard of the North, 'a man of a more generous and disinterested
disposition, or one whose talents and perseverance were better qualified to bring great and
national schemes to conclusion.'  History has proved that Lord Selkirk was a man of dreams;
it is false to say, however, that his were fruitless visions.  Time has fully justified his
colonizing activity in relation to settlement on the Red River.  He was firmly convinced of
what few in his day believed--that the soil of the prairie was fruitful and would give bread
to the sower.  His worst fault was his partisanship.  In his eyes the Hudson's Bay Company
was endowed with all the virtues; and he never properly {139} analysed the motives or recognized
the achievements of its great rival.  Had he but ordered his representatives in Assiniboia
to meet the Nor'westers half-way, distress and hardship might have been lessened, and violence
might very probably have been entirely avoided.

The presence of Lord Selkirk on the Red River had led to renewed energy on the part of the
colonists.  They began to till the land, and in 1818 the grain and vegetable crops promised
an abundant yield.  In July, however, when the time of harvest was approaching, the settlers
experienced a calamity that brought poverty for the present and despair for the future.  The
sky was suddenly darkened by a great cloud of locusts, which had come from their breeding-places
in the far south-west.  During a single night, 'crops, gardens, and every green herb in the
settlement had perished, with the exception of a few ears of barley gleaned in the women's
aprons.'  In the following year the plague reappeared; the insects came again, covering the
ground so thickly that they 'might be shovelled with a spade.'  The stock of seed-grain was
now almost exhausted, and the colonists resolved to send an expedition to the Mississippi for
a fresh supply.  Two hundred {140} and fifty bushels of grain were secured at Lord Selkirk's
expense, and brought back on flatboats to the colony.  Never since that time has there been
a serious lack of seed on the Red River.

