Mrs. White came regularly every evening for about a week, and as her patient began slowly to
mend she came only every other evening. The Rev. Williams and also Walter read to the sick
woman every day, and by the end of the month Mrs. Williams began to stay up several hours each
day. She also was an eager reader and student of "Science and Health." Many were the pleasant
evenings spent by them in explanation and discussion of what they were reading.

True to his word, the pastor decided to trust in God for his supply, and had asked for a vacation,
which was granted him. Near the end of the second week a letter came; in it was a check from
a man whom he had loaned some money to, a long time before. It also contained a note explaining
that he had always intended to pay the debt, but not until recently had his financial circumstances
permitted it. When the pastor saw it, he said, "Surely this is in return for my trust in God,
for I long ago reckoned this money as lost."

At the end of three months, Mrs. Williams was so far recovered that she was able to take care
of her household duties and the pastor's understanding of "Science and Health" had increased
to such an extent that he felt sure it contained the Christ Truth, but he was not yet ready
to say he would give up his position as pastor. Walter grasped the truth more rapidly than
his father, and whenever he found him perplexed or doubtful he was ever ready to point the
way. His mother was constantly gaining both in health and understanding, and when Spring came
and the end of the pastor's six months' vacation drew nigh, she was entirely healed.

It was at this time the pastor told his wife and son that he had determined to hand in his
resignation and leave the ministry. They agreed with him that he could not consistently preach
the old belief after understanding the truth; and as his congregation was very well satisfied
with the minister who was filling his place, they would not miss him much.

A few days later he handed in his resignation. It was somewhat of a surprise to the directors,
and they asked him to reconsider; but when he assured them it was final, they in due time accepted
it and requested that he preach a farewell sermon. At first the pastor thought of declining,
but did not; instead, he told them he would consider for a few days.

That evening, as they were all sitting in the library, he told his wife and son of their request,
and said he had not fully made up his mind what was best to do. At this point Walter spoke
up and said, with a smile on his face: "Father, do you remember one evening when we were having
our Bible lessons you promised to preach a sermon on creation?"

"Yes, son, I remember."

"Why not preach that sermon as a farewell, for I know you can do so now with understanding."

The father looked at his son, smiled, and said: "Not a bad idea; what do you think of it, wife?"

"I think it would be grand and might be the means of showing some poor sufferer the truth.
How thankful I am for this truth, and how I wish the whole world would know the Christ Truth."

"Then it is settled, I will tell the directors of my decision in the morning;" which he did,
also telling them on what subject he would preach.

CHAPTER XVI

THE FAREWELL SERMON

The appointed Sunday dawned clear and balmy, and by the time the services commenced, the church
was filled to its full capacity, the new minister officiating; and when it came time for the
sermon, he announced that the Rev. Williams would preach his farewell sermon, and that the
subject would be "Creation." The pastor slowly arose from the seat he had been occupying and
leisurely walked up to and into the pulpit. He slowly allowed his gaze to roam over the crowded
church, then began his sermon in a clear, full voice:

"My dearly beloved brethren, once again, after more than six months' vacation, I stand before
you for the last time as pastor. I have been in your midst for more than fifteen years, trying
to point out to you, to the best of my ability, the way to salvation. In that time I have made
many staunch friends--friends to be proud of, friends that were true, friends that were friends
in time of storm as well as sunshine, friends that have stood the test of time, and I hope
will stand the test to the end of time, for a severe test of their love and friendship for
me and mine is coming."

By this time every eye was fastened on him, and each individual ear was strained to catch his
every word.

The Rev. Williams now opened the Bible he had carried to the pulpit with him, and said:

"As has been announced by your pastor, the subject of my sermon is 'The Creation.' In explanation
I might say that just before, and during the time of my vacation, I was carefully studying
the Bible relative to this subject, and I discovered the fact that during all the time I was
studying for the ministry, and these many years that I have been an ordained minister, I had
not become acquainted with the true facts regarding the creation of man. It was the discovery
of this, with many others I have since made, that compelled me to send in my resignation, and
in my sermon to-day I shall endeavor to make plain my discovery. I say my discovery, although
it was not mine originally, but another's whose illumined spiritual sense is as far above mine
as the blue vaults of heaven are above the earth. I will now read to you verses from the first
and second chapters of Genesis. No doubt, you are all more or less familiar with them.

As he finished reading this verse, he laid the Bible down and said, "I now wish to call your
attention to chapter I, 26th verse. Therein is stated that God made man in His image and likeness.
Chapter I, 27th verse, reiterates this statement so as to more fully emphasize this great truth.
We now come to the question of what is God. We all agree that God is Spirit. If this be true,
then man must be spiritual and not material, else he would not be the image and likeness of
God, Spirit. In chapter I, 31st verse, we read that God saw everything He had made, and behold,
it was very good. Now I want to ask, is sin, disease, trouble, affliction, or death good? It
has been said that under certain conditions sickness might be good. I also thought this at
one time, but in no way can we conceive of sin as being good. Then God never made sin, neither
did He make disease and death; then whence came they? Is there an evil power that creates these
dreaded things? If we believe this, we will have two creators, or gods, which cannot be true.
Let us see if the Bible will not throw some light on this seeming mystery. "wouldn't a plume or a knowing
one have looked best?" state his dad, looking up from newspaper; "white and blue are not considered
unitedly good spoken." Charlie felt stir at
taste being made into inquiring. "reasonably, i wear't cognize why they
shouldn'he, our father."

"I wish to call your attention to the fact that the Bible does not state that this dust man
is made in the image and likeness of God, in fact it does not state that he was made at all,
it simply says: 'And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground.' Then this dust man
at best was only formed and never made. Neither does it state that God had anything to do with
the forming of this dust man, as it does of the spiritual man made in His image and likeness,
but states the Lord God formed him.

