

  He.

  Whilst I was dear and thou wert kind,
    And I, and I alone, might lie
  Upon thy snowy breast reclined,
    Not Persia's king so blest as I.

  She.

  Whilst I to thee was all in all,
    Nor Chloe might with Lydia vie,
  Renowned in ode or madrigal,
    Not Roman Ilia famed as I.

  He.

  I now am Thracian Chloe's slave,
    With hand and voice that charms the air,
  For whom even death itself I'd brave,
    So fate the darling girl would spare.

  She.

  I dote on Calais; and I
    Am all his passion, all his care,
  For whom a double death I'd die,
    So fate the darling boy would spare.

  He.

  What if our ancient love return,
    And bind us with a closer tie,
  If I the fair-haired Chloe spurn,
    And, as of old, for Lydia sigh?

  She.

  Though lovelier than yon star is he,
    Thou fickle as an April sky,
  More churlish too than Adria's sea,
    With thee I'd live, with thee I'd die.

The austere Scaliger used to say that he would rather have written this ode than be King of
Spain and the Indies: Milton's Eve expresses her devotion to Adam in an apostrophe paraphrased
from its closing lines.

Observe, too, how we find in all the Odes as we read them, not only a gallery of historical
pictures, nor only an unconscious revelation of the poet's self, of, that is, the least subjective
among poets, ever, as says Sir Stephen De Vere, looking outward, never looking in; but they
incidentally paint for us in vivid and familiarizing tints the intimate daily life of that
far-off ancient queen of cities. We walk with them the streets of Rome. We watch the connoisseurs
gazing into the curiosity shops and fingering the bronzes or the silver statuettes; the naughty
boys jeering the solemn Stoic as he walks along, staid, superior, absent; the good boys coming
home from school with well-thumbed lesson books; the lovers in the cookshops or restaurants
shooting apple pips from between finger and thumb, rejoicing in the good omen if they strike
the ceiling; the stores of Sulpicius the wine merchant and of Sosius the bookseller; the great
white Latian ox, exactly such as you see to-day, driven towards the market, with a bunch of
hay upon his horns to warn pedestrians that he is dangerous; the coarse drawings in chalk or
colours on the wall advertising some famous gladiator; at dusk the whispering lovers in the
Campus, or the romping hide-and-seek of lads and lasses at the corners of the streets or squares,
just as you may watch them to-day on spring or winter evenings amongst the lower arches of
the Colosseum;--it is a microcosm, a cameo, of that old-world life. Horace knew, and feared
not to say, that in his poems, in his Odes especially, he bequeathed a deathless legacy to
mankind, while setting up a lasting monument to himself. One thing he could not know, that
when near two thousand years had passed, a race of which he had barely heard by name as dwelling
"quite beyond the confines of the world," would cherish his name and read his writings with
a grateful appreciation even surpassing that of his contemporary Romans.

A few Odes remain, too casual to be classified; rejoicings over the vanishing of winter and
the return of spring (I, iv); praises of the Tibur streams, of Tarentum (II, vi) which he loved
only less than Tibur, of the Lucretilis Groves (I, xvii) which overhung his Sabine valley,
of the Bandusian spring beside which he played in boyhood. We have the Pindaric or historic
Odes, with tales of Troy, of the Danaid brides, of Regulus, of Europa (III, iii, v, xi, xvii);
the dramatic address to Archytas (I, xxviii), which soothed the last moments of Mark Pattison;
the fine epilogue which ends the book, composed in the serenity of gained renown;

