MARK TWAIN'S LETTERS 1907-1910

VOLUME VI.

By Mark Twain

ARRANGED WITH COMMENT BY ALBERT BIGELOW PAINE

XLVI. LETTERS 1907-08. A DEGREE FROM OXFORD. THE NEW HOME AT REDDING.

     The author, J. Howard Moore, sent a copy of his book, The Universal
     Kinship, with a letter in which he said: "Most humorists have no
     anxiety except to glorify themselves and add substance to their
     pocket-books by making their readers laugh.  You have shown, on many
     occasions, that your mission is not simply to antidote the
     melancholy of a world, but includes a real and intelligent concern
     for the general welfare of your fellowman."

     The Universal Kinship was the kind of a book that Mark Twain
     appreciated, as his acknowledgment clearly shows.

*****

To Mr. J. Howard Moore:

                                                       Feb. 2, '07. Yet we are
dull enough to be vain of them. Certainly we are a sufficiently comical
invention, we humans.

                         Sincerely Yours,
                                   S. L. CLEMENS.

     Mark Twain's own books were always being excommunicated by some
     librarian, and the matter never failed to invite the attention and
     amusement of the press, and the indignation of many correspondents.
     Usually the books were Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn, the morals of which
     were not regarded as wholly exemplary.  But in 1907 a small library,
     in a very small town, attained a day's national notoriety by putting
     the ban on Eve's Diary, not so much on account of its text as for
     the chaste and exquisite illustrations by Lester Ralph.  When the
     reporters came in a troop to learn about it, the author said: "I
     believe this time the trouble is mainly with the pictures.  I did
     not draw them.  I wish I had--they are so beautiful."

     Just at this time, Dr. William Lyon Phelps, of Yale, was giving a
     literary talk to the Teachers' Club, of Hartford, dwelling on the
     superlative value of Mark Twain's writings for readers old and
     young.  Mrs. F. G. Whitmore, an old Hartford friend, wrote Clemens
     of the things that Phelps had said, as consolation for Eve's latest
     banishment.  This gave him a chance to add something to what he had
     said to the reporters.

*****

To Mrs. Whitmore, in Hartford:

                                                       Feb. 7, 1907.

DEAR MRS. WHITMORE,--But the truth is, that when a Library expels a book of mine and leaves
an unexpurgated Bible lying around where unprotected youth and age can get hold of it, the
deep unconscious irony of it delights me and doesn't anger me. But even if it angered me such
words as those of Professor Phelps would take the sting all out. Nobody attaches weight to
the freaks of the Charlton Library, but when a man like Phelps speaks, the world gives attention.
Some day I hope to meet him and thank him for his courage for saying those things out in public.
Custom is, to think a handsome thing in private but tame it down in the utterance.

I hope you are all well and happy; and thereto I add my love.

                              Sincerely yours,
                                        S. L. CLEMENS.

     In May, 1907, Mark Twain was invited to England to receive from
     Oxford the degree of Literary Doctor.  It was an honor that came to
     him as a sort of laurel crown at the end of a great career, and
     gratified him exceedingly.  To Moberly Bell, of the London Times,
     he expressed his appreciation.  Bell had been over in April and
     Clemens believed him concerned in the matter.

                                   Sincerely,
                                        S. L. CLEMENS.

     He had taken a house at Tuxedo for the summer, desiring to be near
     New York City, and in the next letter he writes Mr. Rogers
     concerning his London plans.  We discover, also, in this letter that
     he has begun work on the Redding home and the cost is to come
     entirely out of the autobiographical chapters then running in the
     North American Review.  It may be of passing interest to note here
     that he had the usual house-builder's fortune.  He received thirty
     thousand dollars for the chapters; the house cost him nearly double
     that amount.

*****

To H. H. Rogers, in New York:

                                                            TUXEDO PARK,
                                                            May 29, '07.

DEAR ADMIRAL,--Why hang it, I am not going to see you and Mrs. Rogers at all in England! It
is a great disappointment. I leave there a month from now--June 29. No, I shall see you; for
by your itinerary you are most likely to come to London June 21st or along there. So that is
very good and satisfactory. I have declined all engagements but two--Whitelaw Reid (dinner)
June 21, and the Pilgrims (lunch), June 25. The Oxford ceremony is June 26. I have paid my
return passage in the Minne-something, but it is just possible that I may want to stay in England
a week or two longer--I can't tell, yet. I do very much want to meet up with the boys for the
last time.

I have signed the contract for the building of the house on my Connecticut farm and specified
the cost limit, and work has been begun. The cost has to all come out of a year's instalments
of Autobiography in the N. A. Review.

Clara, is winning her way to success and distinction with sure and steady strides. By all accounts
she is singing like a bird, and is not afraid on the concert stage any more.

Tuxedo is a charming place; I think it hasn't its equal anywhere.

Very best wishes to you both.

                                   S. L. C.

     The story of Mark Twain's extraordinary reception and triumph in
     England has been told.--[Mark Twain; A Biography, chaps. cclvi-
     cclix]--It was, in fact, the crowning glory of his career.  Perhaps
     one of the most satisfactory incidents of his sojourn was a dinner
     given to him by the staff of Punch, in the historic offices at 10
     Bouverie Street where no other foreign visitor had been thus
     honored--a notable distinction.  When the dinner ended, little joy
     Agnew, daughter of the chief editor, entered and presented to the
     chief guest the original drawing of a cartoon by Bernard Partridge,
     which had appeared on the front page of Punch.  In this picture the
     presiding genius of the paper is offering to Mark Twain health, long
     life, and happiness from "The Punch Bowl."

     A short time after his return to America he received a pretty
     childish letter from little Miss Agnew acknowledging a photograph he
     had sent her, and giving a list of her pets and occupations.  Such a
     letter always delighted Mark Twain, and his pleasure in this one is
     reflected in his reply.

*****

To Miss Joy Agnew, in London:

                                                  TUXEDO PARK, NEW YORK.

Unto you greetings and salutation and worship, you dear, sweet little rightly-named Joy! I
can see you now almost as vividly as I saw you that night when you sat flashing and beaming
upon those sombre swallow-tails.

     "Fair as a star when only one
     Is shining in the sky."

Oh, you were indeed the only one--there wasn't even the remotest chance of competition with
you, dear! Ah, you are a decoration, you little witch!

The idea of your house going to the wanton expense of a flower garden!--aren't you enough?
And what do you want to go and discourage the other flowers for? Is that the right spirit?
is it considerate? is it kind? How do you suppose they feel when you come around--looking the
way you look? And you so pink and sweet and dainty and lovely and supernatural? Why, it makes
them feel embarrassed and artificial, of course; and in my opinion it is just as pathetic as
it can be. Now then you want to reform--dear--and do right.

Well certainly you are well off, Joy:

     3 bantams;
     3 goldfish;
     3 doves;
     6 canaries;
     2 dogs;
     1 cat;

All you need, now, to be permanently beyond the reach of want, is one more dog--just one more
good, gentle, high principled, affectionate, loyal dog who wouldn't want any nobler service
than the golden privilege of lying at your door, nights, and biting everything that came along--and
I am that very one, and ready to come at the dropping of a hat.

Do you think you could convey my love and thanks to your "daddy" and Owen Seaman and those
other oppressed and down-trodden subjects of yours, you darling small tyrant?

On my knees! These--with the kiss of fealty from your other subject--

                                                  MARK TWAIN

     Elinor Glyn, author of Three Weeks and other erotic tales, was in
     America that winter and asked permission to call on Mark Twain.  An
     appointment was made and Clemens discussed with her, for an hour or
     more, those crucial phases of life which have made living a complex
     problem since the days of Eve in Eden.  Mrs. Glyn had never before
     heard anything like Mark Twain's wonderful talk, and she was anxious
     to print their interview.  She wrote what she could remember of it
     and sent it to him for approval.  If his conversation had been
     frank, his refusal was hardly less so.

*****

To Mrs. Elinor Glyn, in New York:

                                                       Jan. 22, '08.

DEAR MRS. GLYN, It reads pretty poorly--I get the sense of it, but it is a poor literary job;
however, it would have to be that because nobody can be reported even approximately, except
by a stenographer. Approximations, synopsized speeches, translated poems, artificial flowers
and chromos all have a sort of value, but it is small. If you had put upon paper what I really
said it would have wrecked your type-machine. I said some fetid, over-vigorous things, but
that was because it was a confidential conversation. I said nothing for print. My own report
of the same conversation reads like Satan roasting a Sunday school. It, and certain other readable
chapters of my autobiography will not be published until all the Clemens family are dead--dead
and correspondingly indifferent. They were written to entertain me, not the rest of the world.
I am not here to do good--at least not to do it intentionally. You must pardon me for dictating
this letter; I am sick a-bed and not feeling as well as I might.

                              Sincerely Yours,
                                             S. L. CLEMENS.

