"I consider them kind of seeg'yars dangersome"--and seemed to suspect nothing. The next evening
Nicodemus waylaid George and poured a bucket of ice-water over him.

One day, while Nicodemus was in swimming, Tom McElroy "tied" his clothes. Nicodemus made a
bonfire of Tom's by way of retaliation.

A third joke was played upon Nicodemus a day or two later--he walked up the middle aisle of
the village church, Sunday night, with a staring hand-bill pinned between his shoulders. The
joker spent the remainder of the night, after church, in the cellar of a deserted house, and
Nicodemus sat on the cellar door till towards breakfast-time to make sure that the prisoner
remembered that if any noise was made some rough treatment would be the consequence. The cellar
had two feet of stagnant water in it, and was bottomed with six inches of soft mud.

But I wander from the point. It was the subject of skeletons that brought this boy back to
my recollection. Before a very long time had elapsed, the village smarties began to feel an
uncomfortable consciousness of not having made a very shining success out of their attempts
on the simpleton from "old Shelby." Experimenters grew scarce and chary. Now the young doctor
came to the rescue. There was delight and applause when he proposed to scare Nicodemus to death,
and explained how he was going to do it. He had a noble new skeleton--the skeleton of the late
and only local celebrity, Jimmy Finn, the village drunkard--a grisly piece of property which
he had bought of Jimmy Finn himself, at auction, for fifty dollars, under great competition,
when Jimmy lay very sick in the tanyard a fortnight before his death. The fifty dollars had
gone promptly for whiskey and had considerably hurried up the change of ownership in the skeleton.
The doctor would put Jimmy Finn's skeleton in Nicodemus's bed!

This was done--about half-past ten in the evening. About Nicodemus's usual bedtime--midnight--the
village jokers came creeping stealthily through the jimpson weeds and sunflowers towards the
lonely frame den. They reached the window and peeped in. There sat the long-legged pauper,
on his bed, in a very short shirt, and nothing more; he was dangling his legs contentedly back
and forth, and wheezing the music of "Camptown Races" out of a paper-overlaid comb which he
was pressing against his mouth; by him lay a new jews-harp, a new top, a solid india-rubber
ball, a handful of painted marbles, five pounds of "store" candy, and a well-knawed slab of
gingerbread as big and as thick as a volume of sheet music. He had sold the skeleton to a travelling
quack for three dollars and was enjoying the result!

Mr. Bloke's Item

Our esteemed friend, Mr. John William Bloke, of Virginia City,
walked into the office where we are sub-editor at a late hour last
night, with an expression of profound and heartfelt suffering upon
his countenance, and, sighing heavily, laid the following item
reverently upon the desk, and walked slowly out again. He paused a
moment at the door, and seemed struggling to command his feelings
sufficiently to enable him to speak, and then, nodding his head
towards his manuscript, ejaculated in a broken voice, "Friend of
mine--oh! how sad!" and burst into tears. We were so moved at his
distress that we did not think to call him back and endeavor to
comfort him until he was gone, and it was too late. Let us place our hands upon our heart, and say with
  earnestness and sincerity that from this day forth we will beware
  of the intoxicating bowl.--First edition of the Californian.

