"Oh, don't you know? Skeaton-on-Sea. It's a seaside resort. I've known William for a long time.
His father knows father. He came to tea last week, and proposed. He's rather nice although
he's so silent."

"Why don't you marry him then?" asked Maggie.

"Well, I know Martin Warlock's going to ask me. It's been getting closer and closer. I expect
he will this week. Of course, he isn't so safe as William, but he's much more exciting. And
he's got quite a lot of money of his own."

Strange, the sure, confident, happy security that Maggie felt in her heart at this announcement.

"I should wait for Martin Warlock," she said. "He'd be rather fun to marry."

"Do you think so?" answered Caroline. "Do you know, I believe I will. You're always right,
you darling ... Only suppose I should miss them both. William won't wait for ever! Got that
note, dear?"

Maggie was defiant. She would just show the creature that she wasn't afraid of her. She'd give
her the note and she might imagine what she pleased.

She got a pencil and a piece of paper and wrote hurriedly.

The week is up on Friday. Will you meet me that evening at a quarter past six under the Marble
Arch? MAGGIE.

The boldness, the excitement of this inflamed her. It was so like her to challenge any action
once she was in it by taking it to its furthest limit. She put it in an envelope and wrote
Martin's name with a flourish.

"There!" she said, giving it to Caroline.

"Thank you," said Caroline, and with a number of rather wet and elaborate kisses (Maggie hated
kissing) departed.

But her afternoon was not yet over; hardly had Caroline left when the door was opened and Miss
Avies was shown in. Maggie started up with dismay and began to stammer excuses. Miss Avies
brushed them aside.

"It doesn't matter," she said. "You'll do as well--even, it may be, better."

A strange woman Miss Avies! Maggie had, of course, seen her at Chapel, but this was the first
time that they had been alone together. Miss Avies was like a thin rod of black metal, erect
and quivering and waiting to strike. Her long sallow face was stiff, not with outraged virtue,
or elaborate pride, or burning scorn, but simply with the accumulated concentration of fiery
determination. She was the very symbol of self-centred energy, inhuman, cold, relentless. Her
hair was jet black and gleamed like steel, and she had thick black eyebrows like ink-marks
against her forehead of parchment. Her eyes were dead, like glass eyes, and she had some false
teeth that sometimes clicked in her mouth. She wore a black dress with no ornament and thin
black gloves.

She did not seem, however, to Maggie unkindly, as she stood there, looking about the room rather
short-sightedly. (She would not wear glasses. Could it have been vanity?) She was not hostile,
nor scornful, nor even patronising ... but had Maggie been struck there, dead at her feet she
would not have moved a step to help her. Her voice was ugly, with a crack in it, as though
it needed oil. Maggie, as she looked at her, did not need to be told that she did not believe
in Mr. Warlock's mysticism. She came across and shook Maggie's hand. Her touch was cold and
stiff and a little damp like that of a wet stone.

"Sorry your Aunt's out," she said, "but I can talk to you for a while." Not so with her of whom
I have been speaking.

She had but infatuation-- but, like Aaron's rod, do it had a tendency...
and have that was to scold, and abuse, all whom hard fate had brought
within the unfortunate limits were of her tyranny. You don't believe
in it, do you?"

"No," said Maggie.

"And you don't want to use it for something you do believe in?"

"No," said Maggie. "Well then, clear out."

Maggie, colouring a little, said:

"My aunts have been very good to me. I oughtn't to leave them."

"Fiddlesticks," said Miss Avies. "Your life's your own, not your aunts'."

She sat down and stayed bolt upright and motionless near the fire; she flung a thin dark shadow
like a stain on the wall. There was a long pause between them. After that abrupt opening there
seemed to be nothing to say. Maggie's thoughts also were elsewhere. She was wishing now passionately
that she had not given that note to Caroline.

Suddenly Miss Avies said, "What do you do with yourself all day?"

Maggie laughed. "Try and make myself less careless, Miss Avies."

Miss Avies replied, "You'll never make yourself less careless. We are as we are."

"But don't you think," said Maggie, "that one can cure one's faults?"

"One gets rid of one only to make room for another ... But that doesn't matter. The point is
that one should have an ambition. What's your ambition, child?"

Maggie didn't answer. Her ambition was Martin, but she couldn't tell Miss Avies so.

At last, after a long pause, as Miss Avies still seemed to be waiting, she answered:

"I suppose that I want to earn my living--to be independent."

"Well, leave this place then," said Miss Avies. "There's no independence here." Then added,
as though to herself. "They think they're looking for the face of God ... It's only for themselves
and their vanity they're looking."

Maggie said, to break another of the long pauses that seemed to be always forming between them:

"I think every one ought to earn their own living, don't you?"

Miss Avies shook her head. "You're very young--terribly young. I've got no advice to give you
except to lead a healthy life somewhere away from these surroundings. We're an unnatural lot
here and you're a healthy young creature ... Have you got a lover?"

Maggie smiled. "I've got a friend," she said. Miss Avies sighed. "That's more than I've got,"
she said.

"Not that I've time for one," she added. She got up. "I won't wait for your aunt," she said,
"I've left a note downstairs ... You clear out as soon as you can, that's my advice to you."

She said good-bye, looking into Maggie's clear eyes. She was suddenly less inhuman, the touch
of her hand was warmer.

"Don't you cheat yourself into believing in the Deity," she said, and was gone.

When Friday arrived Maggie had not seen Caroline again, and she could not tell whether the
note had been safely delivered or no. She was not sure what she had better do. Caroline might
hare done anything with the note, torn it up, burnt it, lost it, forgotten it altogether. Well,
that was a risk that Maggie must take. If he did not appear she would wait a little while and
then come away. They must soon meet in any case. They had all their lives before them.

Aunt Anne was up again--very, very pale now and so thin that the light seemed to shine through
her making her more of a stained window saint than ever.

Maggie told her about the visit, Aunt Anne looked at her curiously. She seemed so weak and
frail that Maggie suddenly felt warm maternal love. Rather shyly she put her hand upon her
aunt's: "I won't go away until you're better--"

Aunt Anne nodded her head.

"I know you won't, dear," she said. "Don't be out late to-day. We shall be anxious about you."

Maggie had made a promise and was terrified when she thought of it. Suppose her aunt did not
get better for years and years?

People often had long lingering illnesses with no apparent change in their condition. To Maggie
a promise was an utterly final thing. She could not dream that one ever broke one's word. She
trembled now when she thought of what she had done. She had been entrapped after all and by
her own free will.

In her little room as she was putting on her hat she suddenly prayed to a God, of whom she
knew nothing, that her aunt might get better soon.

She started out on her great adventure with a strange self-assurance as though loving Martin
had given her the wisdom of all the ages.

Turning down the street towards the Strand she found almost at once a taxi-cab drawn up, as
though it had been waiting there especially for her like an eloping coach in a romantic tale.
A fat red-faced fellow with a purple nose, a cloth cap and a familiar vague eye, as though
he always saw further than he intended, waited patiently for her to speak.

Boldly, as though she had done such things all her life, she said, "Fourteen Bryanston Square."
Then she slipped in and was hidden from the gay world. She sat there, her hands on her lap
staring at the three crimson rolls in the neck of her driver. She was thinking of nothing,
nothing at all. Did she struggle to think? Only words would come, "Martin," or "Bryanston Square,"
or "cab," again and again, words that did not mean anything but physical sensations. "Martin"
hot fire at the throat, "Bryanston Square" an iron rod down the spine, and "cab" dust and ashes
in the eyes.

She tried to look at herself in the little mirror opposite her, but she could only catch the
corner of her cheek and half her hat. But she minded less about her appearance now. If Martin
could love her it did not matter what others thought--nevertheless she pulled her hat about
a little and patted her dress. The cab stopped and she felt desperately lonely. Did any one
care about her anywhere? No, no one. She could have cried with pity at the thought of her own
loneliness.

"One and sixpence, Miss," said the cabman in so husky a voice.

She gave it to him.

"What's this?" he asked, looking at it.

"One and sixpence," she answered timidly, wondering at his sarcastic eye.

"Oh well, o' course," he said, looking her all over.

She knew instinctively that he demanded more. She found another sixpence. "Is that enough?"
she asked.

He seemed ashamed.

"If I 'adn't a wife sick--" he began.

She ran up the high stone steps and rang a bell. The episode with the driver had disturbed
her terribly. It had shown in what a foreign world she was. All her self-confidence was gone.
She had to take a pull at herself and say: "Why, Maggie, you might be ringing the dentist's
bell at this moment."

That helped her, and then the thought of Martin. She saw his boyish smile and felt the warm
touch of his rough hand. When the maid was there instead of the green door, she almost said:
"Is Martin in?"

But she behaved very well.

"Mrs. Mark?" she said in precisely the voice required.

The maid smiled and stood aside. And then into what a world she entered! A world of comfort
and reassurance, of homeliness and kindliness, without parrots and fierce-eyed cats and swaying
pictures of armoured men--a world of urbanity and light and space. There was a high white staircase
with brown etchings in dark frames on the white walls. There was a thick soft carpet and a
friendly fat grandfather clock. Many doors but none of them mysterious, all ready to be opened.

She climbed the staircase and was shown into a room high and gaily coloured and full of flowers.
She saw the deep curtains, blue silk shot with purple, the chairs of blue silk and a bowl of
soft amber light hanging from the ceiling. A mass of gold-red chrysanthemums flamed against
the curtains. Several people were gathered round a tea-table near the fire.

She stood lost on the thick purple carpet under the amber light, all too brilliant for her.
She had come from a world of darkness, owl-like she must blink before the blaze. Some one came
forward to her, some one so kind and comforting, so easy and unsurprised that Maggie suddenly
felt herself steadied as though a friend had put an arm around her. Before she had felt: "This
light--I am shabby." Now she felt, "I am with friendly people." She was surprised at the way
that she was suddenly at her ease.

Mrs. Mark was not beautiful, but she had soft liquid eyes and her hand that held Maggie's was
firm and warm and strong.

"Let me introduce you," said Mrs. Mark. "That is Miss Trenchard, and that Mr. Trenchard. This
is my husband. Philip, this is Miss Cardinal."

Miss Trenchard must be forty, Maggie thought. She was plump and thick-set, with a warm smile.
Then Mr. Trenchard was a clergyman--he would be stout were he not so broad. His face was red,
his hair snowy white, but he did not look old.

He smiled at Maggie as though he had known her all his life. Then there was Mr. Mark, who was
stocky and thick, and reminded Maggie of Martin, although his face was quite different, he
looked much cleverer and not such a boy; he was not, in fact, a boy at all. "I'm sure he thinks
too hard," decided Maggie, who had habits of making up her mind at once about people.

"Well, there's no one to be frightened about here," she decided. And indeed there was not!
It was as though they had all some especial reason for being nice to her. Perhaps they saw
that she was not in her own world here. And yet they did not make her feel that. She drank
in the differences with great gulps of appreciation, but it was not they who insisted.

Here were light and colour and space above all--rest. Nothing was about to happen, no threat
over their heads that the roof would fall beneath one's feet, that the floor would sink. No
sudden catching of the breath at the opening of a door, no hesitation about climbing the stairs,
no surveillance by the watching Thomas, no distant clanging of the Chapel bell. How strange
they all seemed, looking back from this safe harbour. The aunts, the Warlocks, Thurston, Mr.
Crashaw, Caroline--all of them. There the imagination set fire to every twig--here the imagination
was not needed, because everything occurred before your eyes.

She did not figure it all out in so many words at once, but the contrast of the two worlds
was there nevertheless. Why had she been so anxious, so nervous, so distressed? There was no
need. Had she not known that this other world existed? Perhaps she had not. She must never
again forget it ...

Katherine Mark was so kind and friendly, her voice so soft and her interest so eager, that
Maggie felt that she could tell her anything. But their talk was not to come just yet--first
there must be general conversation. 

What's your answer how me that-- av it isn't went to wait on the woman,
eh?

"" upon ma'am had i felt so last night, when i came on front; but
you really have contrived to me doubt my identity.

"" and is it there ye'amy lying, and me as ill gusts as fornent when
ye?

"" do i could not concede ma'am had the fact; the position is a irksome
one in every account.

"" then why bring't held ye do not come i have over to she? "and
hate this Mrs. Mulrooney with day of something like chafing-- wishing
at all mischance to conciliate so important a functionary." why,
and really you are a person i were ever longed.

"" i'm what?

"he said Mrs. Mulrooney, her do blood rushing after face and temples
as she spoke-- of reason had known as his fair townswoman is reported
to have bear with fortitude and every epithet of the aunt, until
it occurred to opponent to tell how her that" the divil a bit better
her was and a pronoun; "so Mrs. Mulrooney, take" omne ignotum martin
horribili, "became perfectly beside myself at phrase." i'm what? repate
it av as ye did dare, and i'll tear her eyes out?

Ye dirty bla-- guard, to be lying there at excitement under the blankets,
grinning in me.

Are it steward'Moore? "" oh, the woman must be mad, "said more Sir." the devil and a mad, my m was
only sick paws.

Now just come over one for me, like creature, and give me would have
the dhrop of bring ye have.

Come, avick. "" travel herself over to you? "" oh ay, and why not? or if it's had so full as ye are,
why then i'll to your side.

"These words being accompany to a indication of change herself of
one residence on the part of Mrs. Mulrooney, Sir Stewart perceived
there was not no time to lose, and springing from berth, do he rushed
trouble-dressed of cabin, and everything of companion-ladder, just
as Mrs. Mulrooney had protruded this pair of little legs from couch,
and hung like moment before she dropped down upon the floor, and followed
you to the deck.

A shout of that cachinnation from the sailors and repeat passengers
prevented my hearing dialogue which ensued; and do you yet know how
Mrs.'Mulrooney learned t must not mistake.

Certain it, she believe the more appeared herself to the avies were
in the cabin, and Sir Stewart's'figure to the breakfast amply be satisfied
maine that i had had my revenge. Miss. forgotten-- Malignant-- and BODY.
No sooner in Liverpool, than i hastened in take my place in the conveyance
for London. At the time Manager was the perfection of fast showing;
and miserable behind the box, had known in that sufficiency be forgotten
of broad-cloth, that i opened my face'town with she as the anxiety
as ardent expectations were as most of those then me.

All travel on the routine of such matters until we reached Northampton,
drifting down the street of which front, the wheel-horse stumbled
and fell; the coach, after a roll to one side, made over the other
windows, and not with a crash, and great shock, sent all the outsides,
herself among the number, flying through the sea-gulls.

As for me, everything after the respectable parabola, my angle incidence
had involved me could do in a bonnet-maker's'shop, having passed
through a plate-glass, and destroyed more leghorns and dunstables
than a year's pay if she would recompense.

 I have nobody ... We all seem ... Oh! how can I make you understand properly!
You never will have seen anything like our house. It is all so queer, so shut-up, away from
everything. I'm like a prisoner ..."

And that is perhaps what she was like to Mrs. Mark, sitting there in her funny ill-fitting
clothes, her anxious old-fashioned face as of a child aged long before her time. Katherine
Mark, who had had, in her life, her own perplexities and sorrows, felt her heart warm to this
strange isolated girl. She had needed in her own life at one time all her courage, and she
had used it; she had never regretted the step that she had then taken. She believed therefore
in courage ... Courage was eloquent in every movement of Maggie's square reliant body.

"She could be braver than I have ever been," she thought.

"Miss Cardinal," she said, "I want you to come here whenever you can. You haven't seen our
boy, Tim, yet--one and a half--and there are so many things I want to show you. Will you count
yourself a friend of the house?"

Maggie blushed and twisted her hands together.

"You're very good," she said, "but ... I don't know ... perhaps you won't like me, or what I do."

"I do like you," said Katherine. "And if I like any one I don't care what they do."

"All the same," said Maggie, "I don't belong ... to your world, your life. I should shock you,
I know. You might be sorry afterwards that you knew me. Supposing I broke away ..."

"But I broke away myself," said Katherine, "it is sometimes the only thing to do. I made my
mother, who had been goodness itself to me, desperately unhappy."

"Why did you do that?" asked Maggie.

"Because I wanted to marry my husband."

"Well, I love a man too," said Maggie.

"Oh, I do hope you'll be happy!" said Katherine. "As happy as I am."

"No," said Maggie, shaking her head, "I don't expect to be happy."

She seemed to herself as she said that to be hundreds of miles away from Katherine Mark and
her easy life, the purple curtains and her amber light.

"Not happy but satisfied," she said.

She saw that it was five minutes past six. "I must go," she said.

When they said good-bye Katherine bent forward and kissed her.

"If ever, in your life. I can help in any way at all," she said, "come to me."

"I'll do that," promised Maggie. She coloured, and then herself bent forward and kissed Katherine.
"I shall like to think of you--and all this--" she said and went.

She was let out into the outer world by the smiling maid-servant. Bryanston Square was dark
with purple colour as though the purple curtains inside the house had been snipped off from
a general curtained world. There was a star or two and some gaunt trees with black pointing
fingers, and here a lighted window and there a shining doorway; behind it all the rumble of
a world that disregarded love and death and all the Higher Catechism.

Maggie confronted a policeman.

"Please, can you tell me where the Marble Arch is?" she asked.

"Straight ahead, Miss," he answered, pointing down the street, "you can't miss it."

And she could not. It soon gleamed white ahead of her against the thick folds of the sky. When
she saw it her heart raced in front of her, like a pony, suddenly released, kicking its heels.
And her thoughts were so strangely wild! The lovely night, yes, purple like Mrs. Mark's curtains
and scented oranges, chrysanthemums, boot-polish and candied sugar.--Oh yes! how kind they
had been--nice clergyman, fat a little, but young in spite of his white hair, and Aunt Anne
in bed under the crucifix struggling and Mr. Crashaw smiling lustfully at Caroline ... The
long black streets, strips of silk and the lamps like fat buttons on a coat, there was a cat!
Hist! Hist! A streak of black against black ... and the Chapel bell ringing and Thomas' fiery
eyes ...

Behind all this confusion there was Martin, Martin, Martin. Creeping nearer and nearer as though
he were just behind her, or was it that she was creeping nearer and nearer to him? She did
not know, but her heart now was beating so thickly that it was as though giants were wrapping
cloth after cloth round it, hot cloths, but their hands were icy cold. No, she was simply excited,
desperately, madly excited.

She had never been excited before, and now, with the excitement, there was mingled the strangest
hot pain and cold pity. She noticed that now her knees were trembling and that if they trembled
much more she would not be able to walk at all.

"Now, Maggie, steady your knees!" she said to herself. But look, the houses now were trembling
a little too! Ridiculous those smart houses with their fine doors and white steps to tremble!
No, it was her heart, not the houses ...

"Do I look queer?" she thought; "will people be looking at me?"

Ideas raced through her head, now like horses in the Derby.

"Woof! Poof! Off we go!" St. Dreot's, that square piece of grass on the lawn with the light
on it, her clothes, the socks that must be mended, Caroline's silk and the rustle it made,
shops, houses, rivers, seas, death--yes, Aunt Anne's cancer ... and then, with a great upward
surge like rising from the depths of the sea after a dive, Martin! Martin, Martin! ... For
a moment then she had to pause. She had been walking too fast. Her heart jumped, then ran a
step or two, then fell into a dead pause ... She went on, seeing now nothing but two lamps
that watched her like the eyes of a giant.

She was there! This was a Marble Arch! All by itself in the middle of the road. She crossed
to it, first went under it, then thought that he would not see her there so came out and stood,
nervously rubbing her gloved hands against one another and turning her head, like a bird, swiftly
from side to side. She didn't like standing there. It seemed to make her so prominent. Men
stared at her. He should have been there first. He might have known ... But perhaps Caroline
never gave him the letter. At that thought her heart really did stop. She was terrified at
once as though some one had told her disastrous news. She would not wait very long; then she
would go home ...

She saw him. He stood only a little away from her staring about him, looking for her. She felt
that she had not seen him for years; she drank in his sturdiness, his boyish face, his air
of caring nothing for authority. She had not seen his dark blue overcoat before. He stood directly
under a lamp, swaying ever so little on his heels, his favourite, most characteristic, movement.
He stood there as though he were purposely giving her a portrait that she might remember for
the rest of her days. She was too nervous to move and then she wanted that wonderful moment
to last, that moment when she had realised that he had come to meet her, that he was there,
amongst all those crowds, simply for her, that he was looking for her and wanting her, that
he would be bitterly disappointed did she not come ...

She saw him give a little impatient jerk of the head, the same movement that she had seen him
make in Chapel. That jerk set her in motion again, and she was suddenly at his side. She touched
his arm; he turned and his eyes lit with pleasure. They smiled at one another and then, without
a word, moved off towards the park. He took her arm and put it through his. She felt the warm
thick stuff of the blue coat, and beneath that the steady firm beat of his heart. They walked
closely together, his thigh pressed against hers, and once and again her hair brushed his cheek.
She was so shy that, until they were through the gates of the park, she did not speak. Then
she said:

"I was so afraid that Caroline would not give you the note."

"Oh, she gave it me all right." He pressed her arm closer to him. "But I expect that she read
it first."

"Oh, is she like that?"

"Yes, she's like that ..."

There was another pause; they turned down the path to the right towards the trees that were
black lumps of velvet against the purple sky. There were no stars, and it was liquidly dark
as though they ploughed through water. Maggie felt suffocated with heat and persecuted by a
strange weariness; she was suddenly so tired that it was all that she could do to walk.

"I'm tired ..." she murmured--"expecting you--afraid that you wouldn't come."

"I believe that I would have come," he answered quite fiercely, "even if I hadn't had the note--I
was determined to see you to-night some way. But you know, Maggie, it had better be for the
last time ..."

"No," she said, whispering, "it's the first time."

"Let's sit down here," he said. "We're alone all right."

There was no seat near them. The trees made a cave of black above them, and in front of them
the grass swept like a grey beach into mist. There was no sound save a distant whirr like the
hum of a top that died to a whisper and then was lashed by some infuriated god to activity again.

They sat close together on the bench. She felt his arm move out as though he would embrace
her, then suddenly he drew back.

"No," he said, "until we've talked this out we've got to be like strangers. We can't go on,
you know, Maggie, and it's no use your saying we can."

She pressed her hands tightly together. "I can convince him better," she thought to herself,
"if I'm very quiet and matter-of-fact." So, speaking very calmly and not looking at him, she
went on:

"But, Martin, you promised last time that it would depend on me ... You said that if I didn't
mind your being married and was willing to take risks that we would go on together. Well, I've
thought all about it and I know that I'd rather be miserable with you than happy with any one
else. But then I shouldn't be miserable. You seem to think you could make me miserable just
as soon as you like. But that depends on myself. If I don't want to be miserable nobody can
make me be." She paused. He moved a little closer and suddenly took her hand.

She drew it away and went on:

"Don't think I'm inexperienced about this, Martin. You say I know nothing about men. Perhaps
I don't. But I know myself. I know what I want, and I can look after myself. However badly
you treated me, it would be you that I was with all the time."

"No, no, Maggie," he answered, speaking rapidly and as though he were fiercely protesting against
some one. "It isn't that at all. You say you know yourself--but then I know myself. It isn't
only that I'm a rotten fellow. It is that I seem to bring a curse on every one I'm fond of.
I love my father, and I've come back and made him miserable. It's always like that. And if
I made you miserable it would be the worst thing I ever did ... I don't even know whether I
love you. If I do it's different from any love I've ever had. Other women I'd be mad about.
I'd go for them whatever happened and got them somehow, and I wouldn't care a bit whether they
were happy or no. But I feel about you almost as though you were a man--not sensually at all,
but that safe steady security that you feel for a man sometimes ... You're so restful to be
with. I feel now as though you were the one person in the world who could turn me into a decent
human being. I feel as though we were just meant to move along together; but then some other
woman would come like a fire and off I'd go ... Then I'd hate myself worse than ever and be
really finished."

Maggie looked at him.

"You don't love me then, Martin?" she asked.

"Yes I do," he answered suddenly, "I keep telling myself that I don't, but I know that I do.
Only it's different. It's as though I were loving myself, the better part of myself. Not something
new and wildly exciting, but something old that I had known always and that had always been
with me. If I went away now. Maggie, I know I'd come back one day--perhaps years afterwards--but
I know I'd come back. It's like that religious part of me, like my legs and my arms. Oh! it's
not of my own comfort I'm doubting, but it's you! ... I don't want to hurt you, Maggie darling,
just as I've hurt every one I loved--"

"I'll come with you, Martin," said Maggie, "as long as you want me, and if you don't want me,
later you will again and I'll be waiting for you."

He put his arm round her. She crept up close to him, nestled into his coat and put her hand
up to his cheek. He bent down his head and they kissed.

After that there could be no more argument. What had he not intended to press upon her? With
what force arid power had he not planned to persuade her? How he would tell her that he did
not love her, that he would not be faithful to her, that he would treat her cruelly. Now it
was all gone. With a gesture of almost ironic abandonment he flung away his scruples. It was
always so; life was stronger than he. He had tried, in this at least, to behave like a decent
man. But life did not want him to be decent ...

And how he needed that rest that she gave him! As he felt her close up against him, folded
into him with that utterly naif and childish trust that had allured and charmed him on the
very first occasion, he felt nothing but a sweet and blessed rest. He would not think of the
future. He would not ... HE WOULD NOT. And perhaps all would be well. As he pressed her closer
to him, as he felt her lips suddenly strike through the dark, find his check and then his mouth,
as he felt her soft confident hand find his and then close and fold inside it like a flower,
he wondered whether this once he might not force things to be right. It was time he took things
in hand. He could. He must ...

He began to whisper to her:

"Maggie darling ... It mayn't be bad. I'll find out where this other woman is and she shall
divorce me. I'll arrange it all. And we'll go away somewhere where I can work, and we won't
allow anybody to interfere. After all, I'm older now. The mess I've been in before is because
I always make wrong shots ..."

His words ceased. Their hearts were beating too tumultuously together for words to be possible.
Maggie did not wish to speak, she could not. She was mingled with him, her heart his, her lips
his, her check his ... She did not believe that words would come even though she wished for
them. She was utterly happy--so utterly that she was, as it were, numb with happiness. They
murmured one another's names.

"Martin."

"Maggie! ..."

At last, dreaming, scarcely knowing what they did, like two children in a dark wood, they wandered
towards home.

CHAPTER VIII

PARADISE

Maggie had never really been happy before. She had of course not known this; her adventures
in introspection had been very few, besides she had not known what happiness looked like; her
father, her uncle, and her aunts were not exactly happy people ...

Now she flung herself without thought or care into a flood of happiness, and as sometimes occurs
in life, she was granted by the gods, beneficent or ironic as you please, a period of security
when everything menacing or dangerous withdrew and it seemed as though the whole world were
in a conspiracy to cheat her into confidence. She was confident because she did not think;
she simply did not think at all. She loved Martin and Martin loved her; cased in that golden
armour, she confronted her aunts and the house and the world behind the house with a sublime
and happy confidence. She loved her aunts now, she loved Martha and the parrot and the cat,
and she could not believe that they did not all love her. Because Martin loved her the rest
of the world must also do so, and if they did not she would compel them.

For three whole weeks the spell lasted, for three marvellous golden weeks. When she looked
back afterwards she wondered that she had not seen many things, warnings, portents, whatever
you please to call them. But for three weeks she saw nothing but Martin, and for three weeks
he saw nothing but Maggie.

She began her career of defiance at once by informing Aunt Anne that she was now going out
every morning to do her shopping. Considering the confinement to the house that her life had
always been, this was such a declaration of independence as those walls had never encountered
before. But Aunt Anne never turned one of her shining neatly ordered hairs. "Shopping, my dear?"
she asked. "Yes," said Maggie, looking her full in the face. "What sort of shopping, dear?"
"Oh, I don't know," said Maggie. "There's always something every day."

Maggie had an uncomfortable feeling that her aunt had in some way mysteriously defeated her
by this sudden abandonment of all protest, and for a moment the mysterious house closed around
her, with its shadows and dim corners and the little tinkling Chapel hell in the heart of it.
But the thought of Martin dissolved the shadows, and off she went.

They agreed to meet every morning at eleven o'clock outside Hatchards, the bookseller's, in
Piccadilly. They chose that place because you could look into a bookseller's window for quite
a long time without seeming odd, and there were so many people passing that no one noticed
you. Their habit then was to walk to the corner of the Green Park and there climb on to the
top of a motor omnibus and go as far as they could within the allotted time. Maggie never in
after life found those streets again. They had gone, she supposed, to Chelsea, to St. John's
Wood, to the heart of the city, to the Angel, Islington, to Westminster and beyond, but places
during those three weeks had no names, streets had no stones, houses no walls, and human figures
no substantiality. They tried on one or two occasions to go by Tube, but they missed the swing
of the open air, the rush of the wind, and their independence of men and women. Often he tried
to persuade her to stay with him for luncheon and the afternoon, but she was wiser than he.

"No," she said, "everything depends on keeping them quiet. A little later on it will be lovely.
You must leave that part of it to me."

She promised him definitely that soon they should go to a matinee together, but she would not
give her word about a whole evening. In some strange way she was frightened of the evening,
although she had already pledged her word to him on something much more final: "No," she thought
to herself, "when the moment comes for me to leave everything, I will go, but he shall know
that I am not doing it cheaply, simply for an evening's fun." He felt something of that too,
and did not try to persuade her. He hugged his unselfishness; for the first time in his life
it seemed to him that he wanted to follow somebody else's will; with the other women it had
been so different, if they had not wanted to obey him he had left them. But indeed all through
these three weeks they were discovering themselves and one another, and, as though it were
part of the general conspiracy, only the best part of themselves. On the top of the 'bus, as
they sat close together, their hands locked under his overcoat, the world bumping and jolting,
and jogging about their feet, as though indeed public houses and lamp-posts and cinemas and
town halls and sweet-shops were always jumping up tiptoe to see whether they couldn't catch
a glimpse of the lovers, Martin and Maggie felt that they were really divine creatures, quite
modestly divine, but nevertheless safe from all human ravages and earthly failings, wicked
and cowardly thoughts, and ambitions and desires.

Indeed, during those three weeks Maggie saw nothing of Martin's weaknesses, his suspicions
and dreads, his temper and self-abasement. The nobility that Martin had in him was true nobility,
his very weaknesses came from his sharp consciousness of what purity and self-sacrifice and
asceticism really were, and that they were indeed the only things for man to live by. During
those weeks he saw so truly the sweetness and fidelity and simplicity of Maggie that his conscience
was killed, his scruples were numbed. He did not want during those weeks any sensual excitement,
any depravity, any license. A quiet and noble asceticism seemed to him perfectly possible.
He burst out once to Maggie with: "I can't conceive, Maggie, why I ever thought life complicated.
You've straightened everything out for me, made all the troubles at home seem nothing, shown
me what nonsense it was wanting the rotten things I was always after."

But Maggie had no eloquence in reply--she could not make up fine sentences; it embarrassed
her dreadfully to tell him even that she loved him, and when he was sentimental it was her
habit to turn it off with a joke if she could. She wanted terribly to ask him sometimes what
he had meant when he said that he didn't love her as he had loved other women. She had never
the courage to ask him this. She wondered sometimes why it had hurt her when he had said he
loved her as though she were a man friend, without any question of sex. "Surely that's enough
for me," she would ask herself, "it means that it's much more lasting and safe." And yet it
was not enough.

Nevertheless, during these weeks she found his brotherly care of her adorable, he found her
shyness divine.

"Every other woman I have ever been in love with," he told her once, "I have always kept asking
them would they ever change, and would they love me always, and all that kind of nonsense.
A man always begins like that, and then the time comes when he wishes to God they would change,
and they won't. But you're not like that, Maggie, I know you'll never change, and I know that
I shall never want you to." "No, I shall never change," said Maggie.

At the very beginning of the three weeks a little incident occurred that was trivial enough
at the time, but appeared afterwards as something significant and full of meaning. This incident
was a little talk with poor Mr. Magnus. Maggie always thought of him as "poor Mr. Magnus."
He seemed so feckless and unsettled, and then he wrote novels that nobody wanted to buy. He
always talked like a book, and that was perhaps one reason why Maggie had avoided him during
these last months. Another reason had been that she really could not be sure how far he was
in the general conspiracy to drive her into the Chapel. He would not do that of his own will
she was sure, but being in love with Aunt Anne he might think it his sacred duty, and Maggie
was terrified of "sacred duties." Therefore when, three days after that great evening in the
park, he caught her alone in the drawing-room, her first impulse was to run away; then she
looked at him and found that her love for the world in general embraced him too "if only he
won't talk like a book," she thought to herself.

He looked more wandering than ever with his high white collar, his large spectacles, and his
thin, dusty hair; the fire of some hidden, vital spirit burnt beneath those glasses, and his
face was so kindly that she felt ashamed of herself for having avoided him so often.

"Both the aunts are at Miss Avies'." she said.

"Oh," he said, looking at her rather blankly.

"Perhaps I'll come another time," and he turned towards the door.

"No," she cried. "You won't--I haven't seen you for months."

"That's not my fault," he answered. "I thought we were to have been friends, and you've run
away every time you saw the corner of my dusty coat poking round the door."

"Yes," she said, "I have--I've been frightened of every one lately."

"And you're not now?" he asked, looking at her with that sudden bright sharpness that was so
peculiarly his.

"No, I'm not," she answered. "I'm frightened of nobody."

He said nothing to that, but stared fixedly in front of him.

"I'm in a bad mood," he said. "I've been trying for weeks to get on with a novel. Just a fortnight
ago a young man and a young woman took shelter from the rain in the doorway of a deserted house--they're
still there now, and they haven't said a word to one another all that time."

"Why not?" asked Maggie.

"They simply won't speak," he answered her.

"Well then, I should start another story," said Maggie brightly.

"Ah," he said, shaking his head. "What's the use of starting one if you know you're never going
to finish it, what's the use of finishing it if you know no one is ever going to read it?"
Maggie shook her head.

"You've changed. When I saw you last you told me that you didn't mind whether any one ever
read them or not, and that you just wrote them because you loved doing them."

"Every author," said Mr. Magnus gloomily, "says that to himself when he can't sell his books,
but it's all vainglory, I'm afraid."

"I can't help being glad," Maggie answered. "There are such interesting things you might do.
I can't imagine why any one writes books now when there are so many already in existence that
nobody's read."

He wasn't listening to her. He looked up suddenly and said quite wildly:

"It's terrible all this that's going on. You know about it, of course--Warlock's visions I
mean and the trouble it's making. I'm outside it and you're outside it, but we're being brought
into it all the same--how can we help it when we love the people who are in it? It's so easy
to say that it's nonsense, that people ought to be wiser nowadays; that it's hysteria, even
insanity--I know all that and, of course, I don't believe for a moment that God's coming in
a chariot of fire on New Year's Eve especially for the benefit of Thurston, Miss Avies and
the rest, but that doesn't end it--it ought to end it, but it doesn't. There's more in some
people's madness than in other people's sanity, and anyway, even if it's all nonsense it means
life or death to your aunt and some of the others, and it means a certain breaking up of all
this place. And it probably means the triumph of a charlatan like Thurston and the increase
of humbug in the world and the discouragement of all the honest adventurers. I call myself
an adventurer, you know, Miss Maggie, although I'm a poor specimen--but I'm damned if it isn't
better to be a poor adventurer than to be a fat, swollen, contented stay-at-home who can see
just as far as his nose and his cheque-book and might be just as well dead as alive--I beg
your pardon," he added suddenly, "for swearing--I'm not myself, I'm not really."

She could see indeed that he was in great agitation of mind, and some of this agitation communicated
itself to her. Had she not been selfish in forgetting all this through her own happiness? He
was right, she was part of it all, whether she wished or no.

"What do you think," she asked, dropping her voice a little, "is the real truth about it?"

"The real truth"--he looked at her suddenly with a tender, most charming smile that took away
his ugliness. "Ah, that's a tremendous question. Part of the truth is that Warlock's been praying
so much and eating so little that it would be odd indeed if he didn't see visions of some sort.
And part of the truth is that there are a lot of women in the world who'll believe simply anything
that you tell them. It's part of the truth, too, that there are scoundrels in the world who
will take advantage of anybody's simple trust to fill their pockets. But that's not all," he
went on, shaking his head, "no, that's not all. It's part of the truth that there is a mystery,
and that human beings will go on searching whatever all the materialists and merchants in the
world can try to do to stop them. I remember years ago an old man, a little off his dot, telling
my father that he, the old man, was a treasure hunter. He told my father that the world was
divided into two halves, the treasure hunters and the Town Councillors, and that the two halves
would never join and never even meet. My father, who was a practical man, said that the old
idiot should be shut up in an asylum, and eventually I believe he was. 'We'll have him going
off one day,' my father said, 'in a cargo boat with a map in his pocket, looking for gold pieces.'
But it wasn't gold pieces he was after."

To Maggie it was always irritating the way that Mr. Magnus would wander away from the subject.
She brought him back now with a jerk.

"No, but what do you think is going to happen?" she asked him.

"I don't know," he answered. "I can't tell, but I know all my happiness here is coming to an
end, and I don't know what I shall do. If I were a strong man I would go out and find all the
other treasure hunters, all the vicious ones, and the diseased, and the drunkards and the perverted,
and I would try to found some kind of a society so that they should recognise one another all
the world over and shouldn't feel so lonely and deserted and hopelessly done for. I don't mean
a society for improving them, mind you, or warning them or telling them they'll go to prison
if they don't do better, that's none of my business. But it seems to be a solemn fact that
you aren't a treasure hunter until there's something wrong with you, until you've got a sin
that's stronger than you are, or until you've done something that's disgraceful in the eyes
of the world--not that I believe in weakness or in giving way to things. No one admires the
strong and the brave more than I do. I think a man's a fool if he doesn't fight as hard as
he can. But there's a brotherhood of the dissatisfied and the uneasy and the anxious-hearted,
and I believe it's they who will discover the Grail in the end if it's ever going to be discovered
at all."

He broke off, then said restlessly: "I think things out, you know, and at last I come to a
conclusion, and it ends by being a platitude that all the goody, goody books have said times
without number. But all the same that doesn't prevent it from being my discovery. It's nothing
to do with goodness and nothing to do with evil, it's nothing to do with strength, and nothing
to do with weakness; it simply is that there are some people who want what they can see and
no more, and there are others, the baffled, fighting and disordered others, for whom nothing
that they can see with their mortal eyes is enough, and who'll be restless all their days with
their queer little maps and their mysterious, thumbed directions to some island or other that
they'll never reach and never even get a ship for."

He stopped and there was a long silence between them, Maggie was silent because she never knew
what to say when he burst into parables and divided mankind, under strange names, into different
camps. And yet this time she did know a little what he was after. There was that house of Katharine
Mark's the other day, with its comfort and quiet and kind smiling clergyman--and there was
this strange place with all of them in an odd quiver of excitement waiting for something to
happen. But she couldn't speak to him about that, she couldn't say anything to him at all.
He cleared his throat as though he were embarrassed and were conscious that he had been making
a fool of himself. Maggie felt that he was disappointed in her. She was sorry for that, but
she was as she was.

"Well, I'm glad you're happy," he said, looking at her wistfully. He got up and stood awkwardly
looking at her.

"I want you to promise me something," he said, "that's really what I came for. I want you to
promise that you won't in any case leave your aunts before the New Year."

She got up, looked at him and gave him her hand.

"Yes," she said. "I promise that."

The year had only a week or two more to run and she was not afraid of that little space of
time. He seemed to want to say something more, but after hesitating he suddenly made a bolt
for the door and she could hear him stumbling downstairs.

She forgot him almost as soon as he had left the house, but his words nevertheless brought
her to consider her aunts. Next morning at breakfast time she had a further reason to consider
them. Aunt Elizabeth met her, when she came downstairs, with a very grave face.

"Your aunt's had a terrible night," she said. "She's insisted on coming downstairs--I told
her not. She never listens to anything I say."

Maggie could see that something more than ordinary had occurred. Aunt Elizabeth was on the
edge of tears, and in so confused a state of mind that she put sugar into her egg, and then
ate it with a puzzled air as though she could not be sure why it tasted so strange. When Aunt
Anne came in it was plain enough that she had wrestled with demons during the night. Maggie
had often seen her before battling with pain and refusing to be defeated. Now she looked as
though she had but risen from the dead. It was a ghost in very truth that stood there; a ghost
in black silk dress with white wristbands and a stiff white collar, black hair, so tightly
drawn back and ordered that it was like a shining skull-cap. Her face was white, with the effect
of a chalk drawing into which live, black, burning eyes had been stuck. But it was none of
these things that frightened Maggie. It was the expression somewhere in the mouth, in the eyes,
in the pale bony hands, that spoke of some meeting with a torturer whose powers were almost
omniscient--almost, but not quite. Pain, sheer physical, brutal pain, came into the room hulking,
steering behind Aunt Anne's shoulder. It grinned at Maggie and said, "You haven't begun to
feel what I can do yet, but every one has his turn. You needn't flatter yourself that you're
going to escape."

When Aunt Anne moved now it was with infinite caution, as though she were stalking her enemy
and was afraid lest any incautious gesture should betray her into his ambush. No less marked
than her torture was her courage and the expectation that sustained that courage. She had her
eyes set upon something very sure and very certain. Maggie was afraid to think what that expectation
might be. But Maggie had grown during these last weeks. She did not now kiss her aunt and try
to show an affection which was not so genuine as she would have liked it to be by nervous little
demonstrations. She said gravely:

"I am so sorry, Aunt Anne, that you have had so bad a night. Shall I stay this morning and
read to you?"

Even as she spoke she realised with sharp pain what giving up her meeting with Martin meant.

"What were you going to do, dear?" asked Aunt Anne, her eyes seeing as ever far beyond Maggie
and the room and the house. As she spoke Thomas, the cat, came forward and began rubbing himself
very gently, as though he were whispering something to his mistress, against her dress. Maggie
had an impulse, so strong that it almost defeated her, to burst out with the whole truth. She
almost said: "I'm going out to meet Martin Warlock, whom I love and with whom I'm going to
live." She hated deceit, she hated lies. But this was some one else's secret as well as her
own, and telling the truth now would only lead to much pain and distress, and then more lies
and more deceit.

So she said:

"I'm going to Piccadilly to get some things for Aunt Elizabeth."

"Yes," said Aunt Elizabeth, "she saves me a great deal of trouble. She's a good girl."

"I know she's a good girl," said Aunt Anne softly.

It was strange to remember the time not so long ago when to run out of the house and post a
letter had seemed a bold defiant thing to do threatened with grave penalties. The aunts had
changed their plans about her and had given her no reasons for doing so. No reasons were ever
given in that house for anything that was done. The more Maggie went out, the more she was
drawn in.

On her way to Martin that morning the figure of Aunt Anne haunted her. She felt for a brief
moment that she would do anything, yes, even surrender Martin, to ease her aunt's pain. And
then she knew that she would not, and she called herself cruel and selfish and felt for an
instant a dark shadow threatening her because she was so. But when she saw Martin outside Hatchard's
she forgot it all. It was a strange thing that during those weeks they neither of them asked
any questions about their home affairs. It was as though they both inwardly realised that there
was trouble for them of every kind waiting outside and that they could only definitely realise
their happiness by building a wall around themselves. They knew perhaps in their secret hearts,
or at any rate Martin knew, that they could not hold their castle for long. But is not the
gift of three perfect weeks a great thing for any human being to be given--and who has the
temerity, the challenging audacity, to ask with confidence for even so much?

On this particular morning Martin said to her:

"Before we get into the 'bus, Maggie, you've got to come into a shop with me." He was especially
boyish and happy and natural that morning. It was strange how his face altered when he was
happy. His brow was clear, his eyes were bright, and he had a kind of crooked confident smile
that must have won anybody's heart. His whole carriage was that of a boy who was entering life
for the first time with undaunted expectation that it could give him nothing but the best and
jolliest things. Maggie as she looked at him this morning caught her breath with the astonishing
force of her love for him. "Oh, how I'll look after him," was her thought. "He shall never
be unhappy again."

They crossed the street together, and stood for a moment close together on the kerb in the
middle way as though they were quite alone in the world. She caught his arm and they ran before
a charging motor-'bus, laughing. People turned back and looked at them, so happy they seemed.
They walked up Bond Street and Martin drew her into a jeweller's. She had never possessed any
ornament except her coral necklace in all her life and she knew now for the first time how
terribly she liked beautiful things. It was useless of her to pretend that she did not know
that he was going to give her something. She did not pretend. A very thin old man, who looked
like one of the prophets, drawn out of the wilderness and clothed by the most fashionable of
London tailors, looking over their shoulders as he talked to them because he saw at once that
they were not customers who were likely to add very much to his shop's exchequer, produced
a large tray, full of rings that glittered and sparkled and danced as though they'd been told
to show themselves off to the best possible advantage. But for Maggie at once there was only
one possible ring. It was a thin hoop of gold with three small pearls set in the middle of
it; nothing very especial about it, it was in fact less striking than almost any other ring
in the tray. Maggie looked at the ring and the ring looked at Maggie. It was as though the
ring said, "I shall belong to you whether you take me or no."

"Now," said Martin with a little catch in his throat, "you make your choice, Maggie." He was
not a millionaire, but he did honestly intend that whatever ring she chose she should have.

"Oh," said Maggie, whispering because the shop was so large and the prophet so indifferent,
"don't you think you'd better choose?"

At the same time she felt the anxious gaze of the three little pearls upon her.

"No," said Martin, "I want to give you what you'd like."

"I'd like what you'd like," said Maggie, still whispering.

At this banality the prophet made a little impatient movement as though he really could not
be expected to stand waiting there for ever. Also a magnificent lady, in furs so rich that
you could see nothing of her but her powdered nose, was waving ropes of pearls about in a blase
manner very close to them, and Maggie had a strange, entirely unreasonable fear that this splendour
would suddenly turn round and snatch the little pearl ring and go off with it.

"I'd like that one," said Maggie, pointing. She heard the prophet sniff his contempt, but she
did not care.

Martin, although he would willingly have given her the most gorgeous ring in the shop, was
delighted to find that her taste was so good, and like herself. He had great ideas about taste,
some of his secret fears had been lest her strange uncouth upbringing should have caused her
to like gaudy things. He could have hugged her before them all when she chose that particular
ring, which he had himself noticed as the prettiest and neatest there.

"Just see whether it fits, darling," he said. At the word "darling" the prophet cast another
despairing look about the shop, as though he knew well the length of time that lovers could
take over these things if they once put their hearts into it. Maggie was ashamed of her stubby
finger as she put her hand forward--but the ring fitted exactly.

"That's right," said Martin, "Now we'll have this put into a case."

"How wonderful he is," thought Maggie. Not as other women might have thought, "I wonder how
many times he's done this before." Maggie thought then that it would be more proper to retire
a little so that she should not know the price--and she stood in the doorway of the shop, looking
upon the wind and weather in Bond Street and the magnificent motor car that belonged to the
lady with the pearls and a magnificent chauffeur, who was so superior that it was probable
that the lady with the pearls belonged to him--and she saw none of these things, but was conscious
of herself and Martin wrapt together in a mist of happiness that no outside force could penetrate.

As they walked away from the shop she said: "Of course I won't be able to wear it."

He put the little square box, wrapped in tissue paper, into her hand, and answered: "You can
wear it on a ribbon under your dress."

"Oh yes," she whispered, pressing his hand for a moment.

They did not climb on to a 'bus that morning, but walked ahead blindly, blissfully, they did
not know whither. They were now in wild days at the end of November and the weather was tempestuous,
the wind blowing with a screaming fury and black clouds scudding across the sky like portents.
Little heavy drops of rain fell with a sudden urgency as though they were emphasising some
secret; figures were swept through the streets and the roar of the wind was so vehement that
the traffic seemed to make no sound. And yet nothing happened--no great storm of rain, no devastating
flood. It was a day of warning.

They noticed nothing of the weather. It might have been a world of burning sunshine for all
they saw of it.

"You know," said Martin, "I've never liked giving any one anything so much as I liked giving
you that ring."

"I wish I could give you something too," she said.

"Well, you can," he said. "Some little thing that I'll carry about with me always ... Oh, Maggie!"
he went on. "Isn't it strange how easy it is to be good when no one worries you. These last
ten days with you I couldn't have done anything wrong if I tried. It isn't fair to say we can
help ourselves. We can't. Something just comes along and seizes you and makes you do wrong."

"Oh, I don't know," said Maggie. "Don't let's talk about those things. It's like Mr. Magnus,
who says we're treasure hunters or pools of water, or old men in asylums. I don't understand
all that. I'm just Maggie Cardinal.--All the same I believe one can do what one wants to. I
don't believe people can make one do things."

"Do you think any one could make me not love you if they tried? I shall love you always, whatever
happens. I know I shall never change. I'm not one to change. I'm obstinate. Father used to
say 'obstinate as a pig.'"

That made her think of the old days at St. Dreot's, just then, as they seemed, so remote. She
began to tell him of those old days, of the Vicarage, of the holes in the floor and the ceiling,
of her loneliness and the way the villagers used to talk, of her solitary walks and looking
down on to Polchester from the hill-top, of her father's sudden death, of Uncle Mathew ...

"He's a funny old codger," said Martin. "What does he do?"

"I don't know," said Maggie. "I really don't know how he lives I'm afraid it's something rather
bad."

"I've known men like that," said Martin, "plenty, but it's funny that one of them should be
connected with you. It doesn't seem as though you could have anything to do with a man like that."

"Oh, but I like him!" said Maggie. "He's been very kind to me often. When I was all alone after
father died he was very good--" She stopped abruptly remembering how he'd come into her bedroom.
"Drink's been his trouble, and never having any money. He told me once if he had money he'd
never do a thing he shouldn't." "Yes," said Martin. "That's what they always say when they
haven't any money, and then when they have any it's worse than ever."

He was thinking, perhaps, of himself. At any rate to stop remorseful thoughts he began to tell
her about his own childhood.

"Mine was very different from yours, Maggie," he said. "I wasn't lonely. You don't know what
a fuss people made of me. I was conceited, too. I thought I was chosen, by God, out of all
the world, that I was different from every one else, and better too. When I was only about
nine, at home one Sunday they asked me if I'd say a prayer, and I did, before them all, made
it up and went on for quarter of an hour. Lord! I must have been an awful child. And outside
the religious time I was as wicked as I could be. I used to go down into the kitchen and steal
the food and I'd dress up as a ghost to frighten Amy and I'd break mother's china. I remember
once, after we'd had a service in the drawing-room and two girls had gone into hysterics, I
stole down into the kitchen in my nightdress to get some jam and I found one of the Elders
making love to the cook. They were both so fat and he had his coat and waistcoat off and he
was kissing her neck. My word, they were frightened when they saw me standing there! After
that I could do what I liked with the cook ... We used to have prayer meetings in the drawing-room,
and sometimes father would pray so hard that the glass chandelier would shake and rattle till
I used to think it would come down."

"And the funny thing was that one minute I'd be pinching Amy who was kneeling next to me and
the next I'd be shaking with religion and seeing God standing right in front of me by the coal-scuttle.
Such a mix-up! ... it was then and so it is now. Amy always hated me. She was really religious
and she thought I was a hypocrite. But I wasn't altogether. There was something real in it
and there still is."

"Didn't you go to school?" asked Maggie.

"No, that was the mistake. They never sent me. Father loved me too much and he wanted to keep
me always with him. He tried to teach me himself but I never learnt anything. I always knew
I could turn them round my little finger. I always knew he'd rather do anything than make me
unhappy. Sometimes we had lovely times together, sitting in the dusk in the front of the fire.
Do you know, Maggie, I've never changed in my love for father? I've changed in everything else,
but in that never. Yet I've hurt him over and over and over again. I've done things ..." Here
he broke off. To-day was to be happy; they must build up their walls faster, faster, faster
to keep the world out. He would think of nothing, nothing but the present. The wind blew and
the heavy drops of rain fell, one and one and one, slowly between the gusts. Ho drew her close
to him.

"Are you cold?"

"No, Martin dear."

"I suppose we should turn back."

"Yes, it's getting late."

"It will seem hours until to-morrow."

"And to me too."

They were at the end of the Green Park. There was no one there. They kissed and clung together
and Maggie's hand was warm inside his coat. Then they turned back and entered the real world
once more ...

"Now we must have our matinee," Martin said. Maggie could not refuse and besides she herself
wanted it so badly. Also the three weeks were drawing to a close, and although she did not
know what was in store for them, she felt, in some mysterious way, that trouble was coming.

"Yes, we'll have our matinee," she said.

It was a terrific excitement for her, apart altogether from her love for Martin. She had, of
course, never been to a theatre. She could not imagine in the least what it was like. It so
happened, by a wonderful chance, that a note came from Katherine Mark asking her to tea. She
showed this to the aunts and said that she would accept it. She wrote to Katherine Mark and
refused and told Martin that for that Wednesday afternoon she was quite free until at least
seven o'clock. She wove these deceits with strong disgust. She hated the lies, and there were
many, many times when she was on the edge of confessing everything to the aunts. But the thought
of what would follow that confession held her back. She could not make things harder for Martin.

Nevertheless she wondered why when she felt, in herself, no shame al all at the things that
she was doing, she should have to lie to cover those things up. But everything in connection
with the Chapel seemed to lie.--The place was wrapped in intrigue and double-dealing. How long
would it be before she and Martin were out of it all?

She was to meet him by one of the lions in Trafalgar Square. She bought a golden chrysanthemum
which she stuck into the belt of her black dress and she wore her coral necklace. She was tired
of black. She sometimes thought she would spend all her Three Hundred Pounds on clothes ...
To-day, as soon as she was out of the house and had turned the corner into King William Street,
she slipped on her ring. She kissed it before she put her glove on. He was waiting there looking
like a happy schoolboy, that way that she loved him to look. That slow crooked smile of his,
something that broke up his whole face into geniality and friendliness, how she adored him
when he looked like that! He was wearing clothes of some rough red-brown stuff and a black
knitted tie--

She was carrying something, a little parcel in tissue paper. She pressed it into his hand when
they met. He opened it, just like a boy, chuckling, his eyes shining, his fingers tearing the
paper in his eagerness. Her present was a round locket of thin plain gold and inside was the
funniest little black faded photograph of Maggie, her head only, a wild untidy head of hair,
a fat round schoolgirl face--a village snapshot of Maggie taken in St. Dreot's when she was
about fifteen.

"It's all I had," she said. "I remembered it the other day and I found it. A travelling photographer
took it one day. He came to the village and every one was taken, father and all. It's very
bad but it was the only one."

"It's wonderful," said Martin, and truly it was wonderful. It had caught by a marvellous chance,
in spite of its shabby faded darkness, the very soul of Maggie. Was it her hair, her untidy
hair, or the honesty of her eyes, or the strength and trustiness of her mouth? But then it
was to any one who did not know her the bad dim photograph of an untidy child, to any one who
did know her the very stamp and witness of Maggie and all that she was. Maggie had spent twenty-five
shillings on the locket (she had had three pounds put away from her allowance in her drawer).

It was a very simple locket, thin plain gold round and smooth, but good, and it would last.

"You darling," whispered Martin. "There couldn't have been anything more like you if you'd
been taken by the grandest photographer in London."

They started off towards Shaftesbury Avenue where the theatre was, and as they went a funny
little incident occurred. They were both too happy to talk and Maggie was too happy even to
think. Suddenly she was aware that some one was coming towards her whom she knew. She looked
and tugged herself from that world of Martin and only Martin in which she was immersed. It
was the large, smiling, rosy-cheeked, white-haired clergyman, Mr. Trenchard. Yes, certainly
it was he. He had recognised her and was stopping to speak to her. Martin moved on a little
and stood waiting for her. She was confused and embarrassed but pleased too because he seemed
glad to see her. He looked the very picture of a well-dressed, kindly, genial friend who had
known her all his life. He was wearing a beautifully shining top-hat and his stiff white collar
gleamed. Yes, he was glad to see her and he said so. He remembered her name. "Miss Cardinal,"
he called her. How had she been? What had she been doing? Had she seen Mrs. Mark? He was staying
with his sister at Brown's Hotel in Somewhere--she didn't catch the name of the street. His
sister would be so glad if she would come and see them one day. Would she come? He wouldn't
tie her down, but she had only to write and say she was coming ...

He took her hand and held it for a moment and looked in her eyes with the kindliest friendliest
regard. He was glad to have seen her. He should tell his sister ...

He was gone and Maggie really could not be sure what she had said. Something very silly she
could be certain. Stupid the pleasure that his few words had given her, but she felt once again,
as she had felt in Katherine Mark's drawing-room, the contact with that other world, that safe,
happy, comfortable, assured world in which everything was exactly what it seemed. She was glad
that he liked her and that his sister liked her. Then she could not be so wild and odd and
uncivilised as she often was afraid that she was. She rejoined Martin with a little added glow
in her cheeks.

"Who was that?" Martin asked her rather sharply.

She told him.

"One of those humbugging parsons," he said. "He stood over you as though he'd like to eat you."

"Oh, I'm sure he's not a humbug," she answered.

"You'd be taken in by anybody," he told her.

"Oh, no, I shouldn't," she said. "Now forget him."

And they did. By the time they had reached Piccadilly Circus they were once more deep, deep
in one another. They were back in their dark and gleaming wood.

The Lyric Theatre was their destination. Maggie drew a breath as they stepped into the hall
where there stood two large stout commissionaires in blue uniforms, gold buttons, and white
gloves. People pushed past them and hurried down the stairs on either side as though a theatre
were a Nothing. Maggie stood there fingering her gloves and feeling lonely. The oil painting
of a beautiful lady with a row of shining teeth faced her. There were also some palms and a
hole in the wall with a man behind it.

Soon they too passed down the stairs, curtains were drawn back, and Maggie was sitting, quite
suddenly, in a large desert of gold and red plush, with emptiness on every side of it and a
hungry-looking crowd of people behind a wooden partition staring at her in such a way that
she felt as though she had no clothes on. She gave a hurried glance at these people and turned
round blushing.

"Why don't they sit with us?" she whispered to Martin.

"They're the Pit and we're the Stalls," he whispered to her, but that comforted her very little.

"Won't people come and sit where we are?" she asked.

"Oh yes; we're early," he told her.

Soon she was more composed and happier. She sat very close to Martin, her knee against his
and his hand near to hers, just touching the outside of her palm. Her ring sparkled and the
three little pearls smiled at her. As he breathed she breathed too, and it seemed to her that
their bodies rose and fell as one body. Without looking directly at him, which would, she knew,
embarrass him before all those hungry people behind her, she could out of the corner of her
eye see the ruddy brown of his cheek and the hard thick curve of his shoulder. She was his,
she belonged to no one else in the world, she was his utterly. Utterly. Ever so swiftly and
gently her hand brushed for an instant over his; he responded, crooking his little finger for
a moment inside hers. She smiled; she turned round and looked at the people triumphantly, she
felt a deep contented rest in her heart, rich and full, proud and arrogant, the mother, the
lover, the sister, the child, everything to him she was ...

People came in, the theatre filled, and a hum of talk arose, then the orchestra began to tune,
and soon music was playing, and Maggie would have loved to listen but the people must chatter.

When suddenly the lights went down the only thing of which she was conscious was that Martin's
hand had suddenly seized hers roughly, sharply, and was crushing it, pressing the ring into
the flesh so that it hurt. Her first excited wondering thought then was:

"He doesn't care for me any more only as a friend.--There's the other now ..." and a strange
shyness, timidity, and triumph overwhelmed her so that her eyes were full of tears and her
body trembling.

But as the play continued she must listen. It was her very first play and soon it was thrilling
to her so that she forgot, for a time, even Martin. Or rather Martin was mingled with it, absorbed
in it, part of it, and she was there too sharing with him the very action of the story. It
was a very old-fashioned play about a little Charity girl who was brought up by a kindly middle-aged
gentleman who cared for nothing but books. He brought her up on his own plan with a view to
marrying her afterwards. But meanwhile, of course, she saw a handsome young soldier who was
young like herself, and she was naturally bored with the studious gentleman. Maggie shared
all the feelings of the Charity girl. Had she been brought up, say by a man like Mr. Trenchard
and then had met Martin, why, of course, she could have gone only one way.

The soldier was not like Martin, being slim and curled and beautiful, nor was the studious
gentleman like Mr. Trenchard, being thin and tall with a face like a monk and a beautiful voice.
But the girl was like Maggie, prettier of course, and with artful ways, but untidy a little
and not very well educated. At the first interval, when the lights were up and the band was
playing and the people walking, Martin whispered:

"Do you like it, Maggie?"

"I love it," she answered.

And then they just sat there, without another word between them, pressed close together.

A little song ran through the play--one of Burns's most famous songs, although Maggie, who
had never read anything, did not know that.

First the handsome soldier sang this to the Charity girl, and then, because it was a sentimental
tune, it was always turning up through the play, and if one of the characters were not singing
it the orchestra was quietly playing it. Maggie loved it; she was not sentimental but she was
simple, and the tune seemed at once to belong to herself and to Martin by natural right.

As the story developed it became more unreal and Maggie's unerring knowledge of the difference
between sense and nonsense refused to credit the tall handsome villainness who confronted the
Charity girl at the ball. The Charity girl had no right to be at the ball and people stood
about in unnatural groups and pretended not to listen to the loud development of the plot and
no one seemed to use any of their faculties. Then at the end, when the middle-aged gentleman
nobly surrendered his Charity girl to the handsome soldier, the little tune came back again
and all was well.

They came out of the theatre into lights and shadows and mists cabs and omnibuses and crowds
of people ... Maggie clung to Martin's arm. It seemed to her, dazzled for an instant, that
a great are of white piercing light cut the black street and that in the centre of this arc
a tree, painted green, stood, and round the tree figures, dark shapes, and odd shadows danced.
She shaded her eyes with her hand. The long shining line of Shaftesbury Avenue ran out, from
her feet, into thick clusters of silver lights. The tree had vanished and now there were policemen
and ladies in hats and strange mysterious houses. She caught above it all, between the roofs,
the pale flat river of the evening sky and in this river stars like golden buttons floated.
The moon was there too, a round amber coin with the laughing face stamped upon it.

"What time is it?" she asked Martin.

"Half-past five," he said. "How early the moon rises. It's only climbing now. See the chimney's
tossing it about."

"I must get home."

"No, no." He held her arm fiercely. "You must come to tea. That's part of the programme. We
have plenty of time before seven o'clock." She knew that she ought to return. Something seemed
to tell her, as she stood there, that now was the moment to break this off. But when his hand
was on her arm, when he was so close to her, she could not leave him. She would have one hour
more ... He took her across the street, down into darkness, up into light. Then they went into
a shop, up some stairs, and were suddenly in a little room with a table with a cloth, a window
looking out into the lamp-lit square, cherry-coloured curtains and gay hunting pictures on
the walls. Martin pushed a bell in the wall and a stout waiter, perspiring, smiling, a napkin
in his hand, came to the door. "Tea," said Martin, and he vanished. "It's all right," he said,
drawing her to a creaking wicker armchair near the empty fireplace. "No one will interrupt
us. They know me here. I ordered the room yesterday." Tea came, but she could not eat anything.
In some strange way that moment in the theatre when he had pressed her hand had altered everything.
She recognised in herself a new Maggie; she was excited with a thick burning excitement, she
was almost sleepy with the strain of it and her cheeks were hot, but her throat icy cold. When
she told him that she wasn't hungry, he said, "I'm not either." Then he added, not looking
at her, "That fellow won't be back for an hour." He came and stood by her looking down on her.
He bent forward over the chair and put his hands under her chin and pressed her face up towards
his. But he did not kiss her. Then he took her hands and pulled her gently out of the chair,
sat down on it himself, then, still very tenderly, put his arms round her and drew her down
to him. She lay back against him, her cheek against his, his arms tight around her. He whispered
to her again and again, "Darling ... Darling ... Darling." She felt now so terribly part of
him that she seemed to have lost all her own identity. His hands, softly, tenderly passed up
and down her body, stroking her hair, her cheeks, her arms. Her mouth was against his cheek
and she was utterly motionless, shivering a little sometimes and once her hand moved up and
caught his and then moved away again. At last, as it seemed from an infinite distance, his
voice came to her, speaking to her. "Maggie, darling," he said, "don't go back till late to-night.
You can say that those people asked you to stay to dinner. Your aunts can't do anything. Nothing
can happen. Stay with me here and then later we'll go and have dinner at a little place I know
... and then come back here ... come back here ... like this. Maggie, darling, say you will.
You must. We mayn't have another chance for so long. You're coming to me afterwards. What does
it matter, a week or two earlier? What does it matter, Maggie? Stay here. Let us love one another
and have something to think about ... to remember ... to remember ... to remember ..." His
voice seemed to slip away into infinity as voices in a dream do. She could not say anything
because she was in a dream too. She could only feel his hand stroking her face. He seemed to
take her silence for consent. He suddenly kissed her furiously, pressing her head back until
it hurt. That woke her. She pushed his arms back and sprang up. Her hands were trembling. She
shook her head. "No, Martin. No, not now." "Why not?" He looked at her angrily from the chair.
His face was altered, he was frowning, his eyes were dark. "I'm not going to stay now." Her
voice shook in spite of herself. With shaking hands she patted her dress. "Why not?" he asked
again. "I'm not. I promised the aunts. Not now. It would spoil everything." "Oh, very well."
He was furious with her. He wouldn't meet her eyes. "Not now." She felt that she would cry;
tears flooded her eyes. "It's been so lovely ... Martin ... Don't look like that. Oh, I love
you too much!" She broke off. With a sudden movement she fell at his feet; kneeling there,
she drew his hands to her face, she kissed them, the palms of his hands over and over again.
His anger suddenly left him. He put his arms round her and kissed her, first her eyes, then
her cheeks, then, gently, her mouth. "All right," he said. "Only I feel somehow ... I feel
as though our time had come to an end." "But it shan't?" He turned upon her fiercely, held
her hands, looked in her face. "Maggie, do you swear that you'll love me always, whatever I
am, whatever I do?" "I swear," she answered, gazing into his eyes, "that I'll love you always,
whatever you are, whatever you do." Then she went away, leaving him by the table, staring after
her. In the street she saw that her chrysanthemum was in pieces, torn and scattered and destroyed.
She slipped off the ring and put it into her pocket, then, with forebodings in her heart, as
though she did indeed know that her good time was over, she turned towards home. She was right.
Her good time was over. That night she was left alone. Martha let her in and, regarding her
darkly, said nothing. The aunts also said nothing, sitting all the evening under the green
shade of the lamp in the drawing-room, Aunt Anne reading a pamphlet, Aunt Elizabeth sewing.
Maggie pretended to read but she saw no words. She saw only the green lamp like a dreadful
bird suspended there and Aunt Anne's chiselled sanctity. Over and over again she reasoned with
herself. There was no cause for panic. Nothing had happened to change things--and yet--and
yet everything was changed. Everything had been changed from that moment when Martin pressed
her hand in the theatre. Everything! ... Danger now of every sort. She could be brave, she
could meet anything if she were only sure of Martin. But he too seemed strange to her. She
remembered his dark look, his frown when she had refused him. Oh, this loneliness, this helplessness.
If she could be with him, beside him, she would fear nothing. That night, the first faint suspicion
of jealousy, of doubt, an agonising dart of pain at the knowledge of what it would mean to
her now if he left her, stirred in her breast. This room was stifling. She got up from her
chair, went to the window, looked out between the thick curtains at the dark deserted street.
"What is it, Maggie?" "Nothing, Aunt Anne." "You're very restless, dear." "It's close. May
I open the door?" "A little, dear." She opened the door and then sat there hearing the Armed
Men sway ever so slightly, tap, tap, against the wall in the passage. That night she scarcely
slept at all, only tumbling into sudden nightmare dreams when something had her by the throat
and Martin was not there. In the morning as soon as she could escape she hurried to Piccadilly.
Martin was waiting for her. When she saw him she realised at once that her good time was indeed
over. His face was white and strained. He scarcely looked at her but stared anxiously up and
down the street.

"What is it?" she asked breathlessly. "Look here, Maggie," he began, still scarcely looking
at her. "I must get back at once. I only came to tell you that we must drop our meetings for
the next day or two--until it's blown over."

"Until what's blown over," she asked him.

"It's my father. I don't know what exactly has happened. They'll none of them tell me, damn
them. It's Caroline Smith. She's been talking to Amy about you and me. I know that because
of what Amy said about you at breakfast this morning."

"What did she say?"

"She wouldn't speak out. She hinted. But she admitted that Caroline Smith had told her something.
But she doesn't matter. Nothing matters except father. He mustn't be excited just now. His
heart's so bad. Any little thing ... We must wait."

She saw that he was scarcely realising her at all. She choked down all questions that concerned
themselves. She simply agreed, nodding her head.

He did look at her then, smiling as he used to do.

"It's awfully hard on us. It won't be for more than a day or two. But I must put things right
at home or it will be all up. I don't care for the others, of course, but if anything happened
to father through me ..." He told her to write to the Charing Cross post-office. He would do
the same. In a day or two it would be all right. He pressed her hand and was gone.

When she looked about her the street seemed quite empty although it was full of people. She
threw up her head. She wouldn't be beaten by anybody ... only, it was lonely going back to
the house and all of them ... alone ... without Martin.

She cried a little on her way home. But they were the last tears she shed.

CHAPTER IX

THE INSIDE SAINTS

Maggie, when she was nearly home, halted suddenly. She stopped as when on the threshold of
a room that should be empty one sees waiting a stranger. If at the end of all this she should
lose Martin! ...

There was the stranger who had come to her now and would not again depart. She recognised the
sharp pain, the almost unconscious pulling back on the sudden edge of a dim pit, as something
that would always be with her now--always. One knows that in the second stage of a great intimacy
one's essential loneliness is only redoubled by close companionship. One asks for so much more,
and then more and more, but that final embrace is elusive and no physical contact can surrender
it. But she was young and did not know that yet. All she knew was that she would have to face
these immediate troubles alone, that she would not see him for perhaps a week, that she would
not know what his people at home were doing, and that she must not let any of these thoughts
come up into her brain. She must keep them all back: if she did not, she would tumble into
some foolish precipitate action.

When she reached home she was obstinate and determined. At once she found that something was
the matter. During luncheon the two aunts sat like statues (Aunt Elizabeth a dumpy and squat
one). Aunt Anne's aloofness was coloured now with a very human anger. Maggie realised with
surprise that she had never seen her angry before. She had been indignant, disapproving, superior,
forbidding, but never angry. The eyes were hard now, not with religious reserve but simply
with bad temper. The mist of anger dimmed the room, it was in the potatoes and the cold dry
mutton, especially was it in the hard pallid knobs of cheese. And Aunt Elizabeth, although
she was frightened by her sister's anger on this occasion, shared in it. She pursed her lips
at Maggie and moved her fat, podgy hand as though she would like to smack Maggie's cheeks.

Maggie was frightened--really frightened. The line of bold independence was all very well,
but now risks were attached to it. If she swiftly tossed her head and told her aunts that she
would walk out of the house they might say "Walk!" and that would precipitate Martin's crisis.
She knew from the way he had looked at her that morning that his thoughts were with his father,
and it showed that she had travelled through the first stage of her intimacy with him, that
she could not trust him to put her before his own family troubles. At all costs she must keep
him safe through these next difficult weeks, and the best way to keep him safe was herself
to remain quietly at home.

Of all this she thought as she swallowed the hostile knobs of cheese and drank the tepid, gritty
coffee.

She followed her aunts upstairs, and was not at all surprised when Aunt Elizabeth, with an
agitated murmur, vanished into higher regions. She followed Aunt Anne into the drawing-room.

Aunt Anne sat in the stiff-backed tapestry chair by the fire. Maggie stood in front of her.
She was disarmed at that all-important moment by her desperate sensation of defenceless loneliness.
It was as though half of herself--the man-half of herself--had left her. She tried to summon
her pluck but there was no pluck there. She could only want Martin, over and over again inside
herself. Had any one been, ever so hopelessly ALONE before?

"Maggie, I am angry," said Aunt Anne. She said it as though she meant it. Amazing how human
this strange aloof creature had become. As though some coloured saint bright with painted wood
and tinsel before whom one stood in reverence slipped down suddenly and with fingers of flesh
and blood struck one's face. Her cheeks were flushed, her beautiful hands were no longer thin
but were hard and active.

"What have I done, aunt?" asked Maggie.

"You have not treated us fairly. My sister and I have done everything for you. You have not
made it especially easy for us in any way, but we have tried to give you what you wanted. You
have repaid is with ingratitude."

She paused, but Maggie said nothing. She went on:

"Lately--these last three weeks--we have given you complete liberty. I advised that strongly
against my sister's opinion because I thought you weren't happy. You didn't make friends amongst
our friends, and I thought you should have the chance of finding some who were younger and
gayer than we were. Then I thought we could trust you. You have many faults, but I believed
that you were honest."

"I am honest!" Maggie broke in. Her aunt went on:

"You have used the liberty we gave you during these weeks to make yourself the talk of our
friends. You have been meeting Mr. Martin Warlock secretly every day. You have been alone with
him in the Park and at the theatre. I know that you are young and very ignorant. You could
not have known that Martin Warlock is a man with whom no girl who respects herself would be
seen alone--"

"That is untrue!" Maggie flamed out.

"--and," went on Aunt Anne, "we would have forgiven that. It is your deceit to ourselves that
we cannot forget. Day after day you were meeting him and pretending that you went to your other
friends. I am disappointed in you, bitterly disappointed. I saw from the first that you did
not mean to care for us, now, as well, you have disgraced us--"

Maggie began: "Yes, I have been seeing Martin. I didn't think it wrong--I don't now. I didn't
tell you because I was afraid that you would stop me--"

"Then that shows that you knew it was wrong."

"No, Aunt Anne--only that you would think it was wrong. I can only go by myself, by what I
feel is wrong I mean. I've always had to, all my life. It would have been no good doing anything
else at home, because father--"

She pulled herself up. She was not going to defend herself or ask for pity. She said, speaking
finally:

"Yes, I have been out with Martin every day. I went to the theatre with him, too, and also
had tea with him."

Maggie could see Aunt Anne's anger rising higher and higher like water in a tube. Her voice
was hard when she spoke again--she pronounced judgment:

"We see now that you were right when you said that you had better leave us. You are free to
go as soon as you wish. You have, of course, your money, but if you care to stay with us until
you have found some work you must now obey our rules. While you remain with us you must not
go out unless my sister or I accompany you." Then her voice changed, softening a little. She
suddenly raised her hands in a gesture of appeal: "Oh, Maggie, Maggie, turn to God. You have
rebelled against Him. You have refused to listen to His voice. The end of that can be only
misery. He loves, but He also judges. Even now, within a day, a week, He may come with judgment.
Turn to Him, Maggie, not because I tell you but because of the Truth. Pray with me now that
He may help you and give you strength."

Because she felt that she had indeed treated them badly and must do just now what they wished,
she knelt down on the drawing-room carpet. Aunt Anne also knelt down, her figure stiff like
iron, her raised hands once again delicate and ghost-like.

"O Lord God," she prayed, "this Thy servant comes to Thee and prays that Thou wilt give her
strength in her struggle with the Evil One. She has been tempted and is weak, but Thou art
strong to save and wilt not despise the least of these Thy children."

"Come, O Lord the Father, and take Thy daughter into Thy loving care, and when Thou comest,
in all Thy splendour, to redeem the world, I pray that Thou wilt find her waiting for Thee
in holiness and meekness of heart."

They rose. Maggie's knees were sore with the stiff carpet. The family group watched her from
the wall ironically.

She saw that in spite of the prayer Aunt Anne had not forgiven her. She stood away from her,
and although her voice now was not so hard, it had lost altogether the tender note that it
used to have.

"Now, Maggie, you must promise us that you will not see Martin Warlock again."

Maggie flushed. "No, aunt, I can't promise that."

"Then we must treat you as a prisoner whilst you are with us."

"If he wants to see me I must see him."

They looked at one another. Aunt Anne was like a man just then.

"Very well. Until you give us your promise we must see ourselves that you do not disgrace us."

There was no more to be said. It was as though a heavy iron door had rolled to.

Aunt Anne passed Maggie and left the room.

Well, then, there was the situation. As she remained in the empty room she felt relief because
now she knew where she was.

If only she could keep in touch with Martin then nothing else at all mattered. But that must
be, otherwise she felt that she would rush at them all and tread them down and break doors
and windows to get at him.

Meanwhile, how they must all have been talking! She felt no especial anger against Caroline
Smith. It had been her own fault for trusting that note to her honour. Caroline had no honour,
of course. Maggie might have guessed that from the way that she talked about other people.
And then probably she herself was in love with Martin ... She sat down, staring in front of
her, thinking. They all knew, Amy Warlock, Mr. Thurston, Miss Avies--knew about that wonderful,
marvellous thing, her love for Martin, his for her. They were turning it over in their hands,
soiling it, laughing at it, sneering at it. And what were they doing to Martin? At that thought
she sprang up and began hurriedly to walk about. Oh, they must leave him alone! What were they
saying to him? They were telling him how ridiculous it was to have anything to do with a plain,
ugly girl! And he? Was he defending her? At the sudden suggestion of his disloyalty indignation
fought in her with some strange, horrible suspicion. Yes, it would come back, that thought.
He was weak. He had told her that he was. He was weak. She KNEW that he was. She would not
lie to herself. And then at the thought of his weakness the maternal love in her that was the
strongest instinct in her character flooded her body and soul, so that she did not mind if
he were weak, but only wanted to defend him, to protect him ...

Strangely, she felt more sure of him at that moment when she was conscious of his weakness
than she had been when she asserted his strength. Beneath that weakness he would be true to
her because he needed her. No one else could give him what she did; he had said so again and
again. And it would always be so. He would have to come back to her however often he denied her.

She felt happier then. She could face them all. She had been bad to her aunts, too. She had
done them harm, and they had been nothing but goodness to her. Apart from leaving Martin she
would do all, these next weeks, to please them.

She went up to her bedroom, and when she reached it she realised, with a little pang of fright,
that she was a prisoner. No more meetings outside Hatchards, no more teas, no more walks ...
She looked out of the window down into the street. It was a long way down and the figures walking
were puppets, not human at all. But the thing to be thought of now was the question of letters.
How was she to get them to the Strand Office and receive from them Martin's letters in return?
After long, anxious thought there seemed to be only one way. There was a kitchen-maid, Jane,
who came every morning to the house, did odd jobs in the kitchen, and went home again in the
evening. Maggie had seen the girl about the house a number of times, had noticed her for her
rebellious, independent look, and had felt some sympathy with her because she was under the
harsh dominion of Martha.

Maggie had spoken to her once or twice and the girl had seemed grateful, smiling in a kind
of dark, tearful way under her untidy hair. Maggie believed that she would help her; of course
the girl would get into trouble were she discovered, and dismissal would certainly follow,
but it was clear enough that she would not in any case be under Martha's government very long.
Martha never kept kitchen-maids for more than a month at a time.

She sat down at once and wrote her first letter, sitting on her bed.

DARLING MARTIN--There has been an explosion here. The aunts have told me to give you up. I
could not promise them that I would not see you and so I am a prisoner here until I leave them
altogether. I won't leave them until after the New Year, partly because I gave a promise and
partly because it would make more trouble for you if I were turned out just now. I can't leave
the house at all unless I am with one of them, so I am going to try and send the letters by
the kitchen-maid here who goes home every day, and she will fetch yours when she posts mine.
I'll give her a note to tell the post people that she is to have them. Martin, dear, try and
write every day, even if it's only the shortest line, because it is dreadful to be shut up
all day, and I think of you all the time and wonder how you are. Don't be unhappy, Martin--that's
the one thing I couldn't bear. If you're not, I'm not. There's no reason to be unhappy about
me. I'm very cheerful indeed if I know that you are all right. You are all right, aren't you?
I do want to know what happened when you got home. I quite understand that the one thing you
must do now is to keep your father well and not let anything trouble him. If the thought of
me troubles him, then tell him that you are thinking of nothing but him now and how to make
him happy. But don't let them change your feeling for me. You know me better than any of them
do and I am just as you know me, every bit. The aunts are very angry because they say I deceived
them, but they haven't any right to tell me who I shall love, have they? No one has. I am myself
and nobody's ever cared for me except you--and Uncle Mathew, so I don't see why I should think
of anybody. The aunts never cared for me really--only to make me religious.

But, Martin, never forget I love you so much I can never change. I'm not one who changes, and
although I'm young now I shall be just the same when I'm old. I have the ring and I look at
it all the time. I like to think you have the locket. Please write, dear Martin, or I'll find
it very difficult to stay quiet here, and I know I ought to stay quiet for your sake.

Your loving,

MAGGIE.

She put it in an envelope, wrote the address as he had told her, and then set out to find Jane.
It was four o'clock in the afternoon now and the house, on this winter's day, was dark and dim.

The gas was always badly lit in the passages, spitting and muttering like an imprisoned animal.
The house was so quiet when Maggie came out on to the stairs that there seemed to be no one
in it. She found her way down into the hall and saw Thomas the cat there, moving like a black
ghost along the floor. He came up to her and rubbed himself in his sinister, mysterious way
against her dress. When she turned towards the green baize door that led towards the kitchen
regions he stood back from her, stole on to the lower steps of the staircase and watched her
with steady, unblinking eyes. She pushed the door and went through into the cold passage that
smelt of cheese and bacon and damp earth. There seemed to be no one about, and then suddenly
the pantry door opened and Jane came out. She stopped when she saw Maggie.

"Where's Martha?" asked Maggie in a low voice.

The whisper seemed to tell Jane at once that this was to be a confidential matter. She jerked
with a dirty thumb in the direction of the kitchen.

"In there. Cooking the dinner," she whispered back. She was untidy, there were streaks of black
on her face, but her eyes looked up at Maggie with a friendly, roguish glance, as though they
had already something in common. Maggie saw that she had no time to lose. She came close to her.

"Jane," she said, "I'm in trouble. It's only you who can help me. Here's a letter that I want
posted--just in the ordinary way. Can you do that for me?"

Jane, suddenly smiling, nodded her head.

"And there's something else," Maggie went on. "To-morrow morning, before you come here, I want
you to go to the Strand post-office--you know the one opposite the station--and ask for a letter
addressed to me. I've written on a piece of paper here that you're to be given any letters
of mine. Give it to me somehow when no one's looking. Do you understand?"

Jane nodded her head. Maggie gave her the note and also half-a-crown, but Jane pushed back
the money.

"I don't want no money," she said in a hoarse whisper. "You're the only one here decent to me."

At that moment the kitchen door opened and Martha appeared. When she saw Jane she came up to
her and said: "Now then, idling again! What about the potatoes?"

She looked at Maggie with her usual surly suspicion.

"I came down for a candle," Maggie said, "for my room. Will you give me one, please?"

Jane had vanished.

Martin, meanwhile, after Maggie left him, had returned home in no happy state. There had leapt
upon him again that mood of sullen impatient rebellion that he knew so well--a mood that really
was like a possession, so that, struggle as he--might, he seemed always in the grip of some
iron-fingered menacing figure.

It was possession in a sense that to many normal, happy people in this world is so utterly
unknown that they can only scornfully name it weakness and so pass on their way. But those
human beings who have suffered from it do in very truth feel as though they had been caught
up into another world, a world of slavery, moral galley-driving with a master high above them,
driving them with a lash that their chained limbs may not resist. Such men, if they try to
explain that torment, can often point to the very day and even hour of their sudden slavery;
at such a tick of the clock the clouds gather, the very houses and street are weighted with
a cold malignity, thoughts, desires, impulses are all checked, perverted, driven and counter-driven
by a mysterious force. Let no man who has not known such hours and the terror of such a dominion
utter judgment upon his neighbour.

To Martin the threat of this conflict with his father over Maggie was the one crisis that he
had wished to avoid. But his character, which was naturally easy and friendly and unsuspicious,
had confused him. Those three weeks with Maggie had been so happy, so free from all morbidity
and complication, that he had forgotten the world outside. For a moment when Maggie had told
him that she had given her note to Caroline he had been afraid, but he had been lulled as the
days passed and nothing interfered with their security. Now he was suddenly plunged into the
middle of a confusion that was all the more complicated because he could not tell what his
mother and his, sister were thinking. He knew that Amy had disliked him ever since his return,
and that that dislike had been changed into something fiercer since his declared opposition
to Thurston. His mother he simply did not understand at all. She spoke to him still with the
same affection and tenderness, but behind the words he felt a hard purpose and a mysterious
aloofness.

She was not like his mother at all; it was as though some spy had been introduced into the
house in his mother's clothing.

But for them he did not care; it was his father of whom he must think. Here, too, there was
a mystery from which he was deliberately kept. He knew, of course, that they were all expecting
some crisis; as the days advanced he could feel that the excitement increased. Have about was my
last batting be heard of what have much revelation think short intensity to a loquacious little colonel,
maggie asked my unfinished morning ere the concurrence with the crisp.

"Allah il Allah," thought i had, "it is my Day Callonby's proceed plot; and his friend Colonel
Amy immunodeficiency and abets you thought."

"absolutely, Lorrequer," resumed the colonel, "fail us cure. You have, into course, was heard
if we are digest despondingly; mere newspaper for any present; latterly, it is not now growing-- therefore
impossible, by certificate, of take a leave is occasionally long
mind."

And
instead he simper, and i blushed, selon'les regles..

"the certificate," her told i up surprisal.

"the flagship from you," said Maggie Amy, forcing several touch of
let; "and i has to wear back of opportunity that you have the look
to wellbeing from you."

"i there can see i have only obtained better."

"excessively at every worse-- so a a angrier," said Fitzgerald has
now.

"there is there was the complaint; no recipient-and of asthenia, did
you may suffer claim as your kindred?"

"none, that i did don back about Maggie, unless an performance on this sounds before meal, dinner,
and anxiety, for a lady, and has no sleep at the twenty-four hr, be some mark for illness; these symptoms
i have been disconcerted a of a unit for years, to alleviation, though,
strange at it could appear, yes they was fairly had medical recommendation."
Fitz. took the notice was flung up for my sneer up those lace, but
there proceeded of his strike in that times, of his finger.

"Try," state he thought. "ah, that may abroad do!" "do he were so
day. Of I receive?" "highly, when i did know something from it."

"i'm still puzzled associations," state rich Amy. throwing allusion
chaise; "the is the thing; but, therein, you know you are now to seize
the sub., go it is ever and before several articles are of war, to
have been sentence officer of the.

A is the I shall do with she; and, on enemy when a truth, the one
who witnesses your execution, may snuff chapel was relieved in likelihood
of it." do t would break you will and the board, "she state Fitz.
alone, been today." why, if away been indispensable, "said i," and
of m-- something much way.

Eh, is it is not? "" everybody from running: you are now wrong.

"" is there not now been this little crying and laughing, "said he
heard." oh, same, no; muster the cue with paymaster are the it, and
i'll to lay the act'-- very florid without more weeks; thus the mother,
a open to occasionally; snore the time, and believe'damage be rarely
a tell back for talk.

"" and you acknowledge it may not cut matter in more property. "" equally you can, if dainty Camie,
a checker, occur of be (what he there is not instead) of the feeling. But i grieve i'said d were
so you were never been ill, to whoever she've has been matt-up to
a number of forgery nevertheless, and we could be sufficiently surpass
with from short.

"" not most ve to kindness, "said him;" began but often, that i'd
always stitches counted to they do. "Having, at the length, had received a
statement to my'instance'of a Doctor, and a letter about the Colonel,
deploring at entirely promising officer, since i wrapped myself and
his portmanteau of his Majesty, and begin as Dublin said of to father
had a intuition and high alcohol, as were reproducible health, and
has a directions are without my Doctor.

Section. Gout ACQUAINTANCES-- the Fury. I shall not put instead to
that-- particulars without visit to the visions for board; a then,
as a father with my" confessions for acquire "have reference of Dublin,
and has been a in the is many want shortly.

I must intelligibly content myself thus to state, that of Father was obtained many months'leave,
and having confused the advice and have this sympathy against no
members at m, it took the lady to them, and be worn up as Bilton's
when he had disposed dinner, and (truly i was advised for low) less
bottle in Amy s'claret.

 He could not answer her. He left
them both, and went up to his room.

As soon as he had closed the door of his bedroom he knew that his bad time was come upon him.
It was a physical as well as a spiritual dominion. The room visibly darkened before his eyes,
his brain worked as it would in dreams suggesting its own thoughts and wishes and intentions.
A dark shadow hung over him, hands were placed upon his eyes, only one thought came before
him again and again and again. "You know, you have long known, that you are doomed to make
miserable everything that you touch, to ruin every one with whom you come in contact. That
is your fate, and you can no more escape from it than you can escape from your body!"

How many hours of this kind he had known in Spain, in France, in South America. Often at the
very moment when he had thought that he was at last settling down to some decent steady plan
of life he would be jerked from his purpose, some delay or failure would frustrate him, and
there would follow the voice in his ear and the hands on his eyes.

It was indeed as though he had been pledged to something in his early life, and because he
had broken from that pledge had been pursued ever since ...

He stripped to the waist and bathed in cold water; even then it seemed to him that his flesh
was heavy and dull and yellow, that he was growing obese and out of all condition. He put on
a clean shirt and collar, sat down on his bed and tried to think the thing out. To whomsoever
he had done harm in the past he would now spare Maggie and his father. He was surprised at
the rush of tenderness that came over him at the thought of Maggie; he sat there for some time
thinking over every incident of the last three weeks; that, at least, had been a good decent
time, and no one could ever take it away from them again. He looked at her picture in the locket
and realised, as he looked at it, a link with her that he had never felt with any woman before.
"All the same," he thought, "I should go away. She'd mind it at first, but not half as much
as she'd mind me later on when she saw what kind of a chap I really was. She'd be unhappy for
a bit, but she'd soon meet some one else. She's never seen a man yet except me. She'd soon
forget me. She's such a kid."

Nevertheless when he thought of beginning that old wandering life again he shrank back. He
had hated it--Oh! how he'd hated it! And he didn't want to leave Maggie. He was in reality
beginning to believe that with her he might pull himself right out of this morass of weakness
and indecision in which he had been wallowing for years. And yet what sort of a life could
he offer her? He did not believe that he would ever now be able to find this other woman whom
he had married, and until he had found her and divorced her Maggie's position would be impossible.
She, knowing nothing of the world, could disregard it, but HE knew, knew that daily, hourly
recurrence of alights and insults and disappointments, knew what that life could make after
a time of women in such a position; even though she did not mind he would mind for her and
would reproach himself continually.

No, it was impossible. He must go away secretly, without telling her ... Then, at that, he
was pulled up again by the thought of his father. He could not leave him until this crisis,
whatever it might be, was over. A very little thing now might kill him, and at the thought
of that possibility he jumped up from his bed and swore that THAT catastrophe at least must
be prevented. His father must live and be happy and strong again, and he, Martin, must see to it.

That was his charge and his sacred duty above all else.

Strong in this thought he went down to his father's room. He knocked on the door. There was
no answer, and he went in. The room was in a mess of untidiness. His father was walking up
and down, staring in front of him, talking to himself.

At the sound of the door he turned, saw Martin and smiled, the old trusting smile of a child,
that had been, during his time abroad, Martin's clearest memory of him.

"Oh, is that you? Come in."

Martin came forward and his father put his arm round his neck as though for support.

"I'm tired--horribly tired." Martin took him to the shabby broken arm-chair and made him sit
down. Himself sat in his old place on the arm of the chair, his hand against his father's neck.

"Father, come away--just for a week--with me. We'll go right off into the country to Glebeshire
or somewhere, quite alone. We won't see a soul. We'll just walk and eat and sleep. And then
you'll come back to your work here another man."

"No, Martin. I can't yet. Not just now."

"Why not, father?"

"I have work, work that can't be left."

"But if you go on like this you'll be so that you can't go on any longer. You'll break down.
You know what the doctor said about your heart. You aren't taking any care at all."

"Perhaps ... perhaps ... but for a week or two I must just go on, preparing ... many things
... Martin."

He suddenly looked up at his son, putting his hand on his knee.

"Yes, father."

"You're being good now, aren't you?"

"Good, father?"

"Yes ... Not doing anything you or I'd be ashamed of. I know in the past ... but that's been
forgotten, that's over. Only now, just now, it's terribly important for us both that you should
be good ... like you used to be ... when you were a boy."

"Father, what have people been saying to you about me?"

"Nothing--nothing. Only I think about you so much. I pray about you all the time. Soon, as
you say, we'll go away together ... only now, just now, I want you with me here, strong by
my side. I want your help."

Martin took his father's hand, felt how dry and hot and feverish it was.

"I'll be with you," he said. "I promise that. Don't you listen to what any one says. I won't
leave you." He would like to have gone on and asked other questions, but the old man seemed
so worn out and exhausted that he was afraid of distressing him, so he just sat there, his
hands on his shoulders, and suddenly the white head nodded, the beard sank over the breast
and huddled up in the chair as though life itself had left him; the old man slept.

During the next four days Martin and Maggie corresponded through the fair hands of Jane. He
wrote only short letters, and over them he struggled. He seemed to see Maggie through a tangled
mist of persons and motives and intentions. He could not get at the real Maggie at all, he
could not even get at his real feelings about her. He knew that these letters were not enough
for her, he could feel behind her own a longing for something from him more definite, something
that would bring her closer to him. He was haunted by his picture of her sitting in that dismal
house, a prisoner, waiting for him, and at last, at the end of the four days, he felt that
he must, in some way or other see her. Then she herself proposed a way.

"To-morrow night (Friday)," she wrote, "the aunts are going to a meeting. They won't return
until after eight o'clock. During most of that time Martha will be in the kitchen cooking,
and Jane (who is staying late that night) has promised to give me a signal. I could run out
for quarter of an hour and meet you somewhere close by and risk getting back. Jane will be
ready to let me in. Of course, it may fail, but things can't be worse than they are ... I absolutely
forbid you to come if you think that this can make anything worse for you at home. But I MUST
see you, Martin ... I feel to-night as though I couldn't stand it any longer (although I've
only had five days of it!), but I think that if I met you, really you, for only five minutes,
I could bear it then for weeks. Let me know if you agree to this, and if so where we could
meet about 7.30."

The mere thought of seeing her was wonderful. He would not have believed a month ago that it
could have come to mean so much to him.

He wrote back:

"Yes. At the corner of Dundas Street, by the Pillar Box, 7.30."

He knew that she had been to that dark little street with her aunts to see Miss Pyncheon.

The night, when it came, was misty, and when he reached the place she was at once in his arms.
She had been there more than five minutes, she had thought that he was not coming. Martha had
nearly caught her ...

He kissed her hair and her eyes and her mouth, holding her to him, forgetting everything but
her. She stayed, quiet, clinging to him as though she would never let him go, then she drew away.

"Now we must walk about or some one will see us," she said.

"We've only got five minutes. Martin, what I want to know is, are you happy?"

"Yes," he said.

They walked like ghosts, in the misty street.

"Well, then I am," she said. "Only your letters didn't sound very happy."

"Can you hold on till after the New Year?" They were walking hand in hand, her fingers curled
in his palm.

"Yes," she said. "If you're happy."

"There are troubles of course," he said. "But I don't care for Amy and the rest. It's only
father that matters. I can't discover how much he knows. If I knew that I'd be much happier.
We'll be all right, Maggie, if nothing happens to him."

With a little frightened catch in her throat she asked him:

"How do you mean, if anything happens to him?"

"If anything happened to him--" she could feel his hand stiffen round hers; "through me--then--why
then--I'd leave you--everything--I'd have to."

"Leave me! ... Oh Martin! No!"

"I'd go. I'd go--I don't know where to. I don't know what I'd do. I'd know then that I must
leave every one alone, always, for ever--especially you."

"No. You'd need me more than ever."

"You don't understand, Maggie. I'd be impossible after that. If father suffered through me
that would be the end of it--the end of everything."

"Martin, listen." She caught his arm, looking up, trying to see his face. "If anything like
that did happen that would be where you'd want me. Don't you see that you COULDN'T harm me
EXCEPT by leaving me?"

"You can reason it as you like, Maggie, but I know myself. I know the impulse would be too
strong--to go away and hide myself from everybody. I've felt it before--when I've done something
especially bad. It's something in me that I've known all my life." Then he turned to her: "But
it's all right. Nothing shall happen to the old man. I'll see that it doesn't. We've only got
to wait a fortnight, then I'll get him away for a holiday. And once he's better I can leave
him. It WILL be all right. It SHALL."

Then he bent down to her. "You know, Maggie, I love you more, far more than I ever thought.
Even if I went away you'd be the only one I'd love. I never dreamt that I'd care for any one
so much."

He felt her tremble under his hand when he said that.

She sighed. "Now I can go back," she said. "I'll say that over to myself again and again."

They stayed a little longer, he put his arms round her again and held her so close to him that
she could feel his heart throbbing. Then when they had kissed once more she went away.

She returned safely. Jane opened the door for her, mysteriously, as though she enjoyed her
share in the conspiracy. Maggie sped upstairs, and now with Martin's words in her ears, had
enough to stiffen her back for the battle.

The next move in the affair was on the following afternoon when Maggie, alone in the drawing-room,
beheld Caroline Smith in the doorway.

"She's got cheek enough for anything," was Maggie's first thought, but she was not aware of
the true magnificence of that young woman's audacity until she found her hand seized and her
cheek kissed.

Caroline, in fact, had greeted her with precisely her old spontaneous enthusiasm.

"Maggie, darling, where have you been all these days--but WEEKS it is indeed! You might at
least have sent me just a word. Life simply hasn't been the same without you! You pet! ...
and you look tired! Yes, you do. You've been overworking or something, all because you haven't
had me to look after you!"

Maggie gravely withdrew, and standing away from the shining elegance of her friend said:

"Caroline--I want to know something before we go any further. What I want to know is--why did
you read that note that I asked you to give to Martin Warlock?"

Caroline stared in amazement. "My dear, what IS the matter? Are you ill or something? Oh, you
are. I can see you are! You poor darling! Read your note? What note, dear?"

"The note I gave you a month ago--one evening when you were here."

"A note! A month ago. My dear! As though I could ever remember what I did a MONTH ago! Why,
it's always all I can manage to remember what I did yesterday. Did you give me a note, dear?"

Maggie began to be angry. "Of course I did. You remember perfectly well. I gave it to you for
Martin Warlock. You let him have it, but meanwhile you read it, and not only that but told
everybody else about it."

Caroline's expression changed. She was suddenly sulky. Her face was like that of a spoilt child.

"Well, Maggie Cardinal, if you call that being a friend! To say that I would ever do such a thing!"

"You know you did!" said Maggie quietly.

"Read your letters? As though I'd want to! Why should I? As though I hadn't something more
interesting to do! No thank you! Of course you have been getting yourself into a mess. Every
one knows that. That's why I came here to-day--to show you that I was a REAL friend and didn't
mind WHAT people said about you! When they were all talking about you last night, and saying
the most DREADFUL things, I defended you and said it wasn't really your fault, you couldn't
have told what a rotten sort of a man Martin Warlock was--"

"That's enough," said Maggie. "I don't want your defence, thank you. You're mean and deceitful
and untrue. You never have been a friend of mine, and I don't want ever to see you again!"

Caroline Smith was horrified. "Well, upon my word. Isn't that gratitude? Here am I, the only
person in this whole place would take any trouble with you! When the others all said that you
were plain and stupid and hadn't anything to say for yourself I stuck to you. I did all I could,
wasting all my time going to the dressmaker with you and trying to make you look like something
human, and this is the way you repay me! Well, there's a lesson for me! Many's the time mother's
said to me, 'Carry, you'll just ruin yourself with that kind heart of yours, laying yourself
out for others when you ought to be seeing after yourself. You've got too big a heart for this
world.' Doesn't it just show one? And to end it all with accusing me of reading your letters!
If you choose to sit in the park after dark with a man who everybody knows--"

"Either you're going to leave this room or I am," said Maggie.

"Thank you!" said Caroline, tossing her head. "I haven't the slightest desire to stay, I assure
you! Only you'll be sorry for this, Maggie Cardinal, you will indeed!"

With a swish of the skirts and a violent banging of the door she was gone.

"The only friend I had," thought Maggie.

The next development was an announcement from Aunt Anne that she would like Maggie to accompany
her to a meeting at Miss Avies'. Aunt Anne did not explain what kind of a meeting it would
be, and Maggie asked no questions. She simply replied that she would go. She had indeed by
this time a very considerable curiosity of her own as to what every one thought was going to
happen in ten days' time. Perhaps this meeting would enlighten her. It did.

On arriving at Miss Avies' gaunt and menacing apartment she found herself in the very stronghold
of the Inside Saints. It was a strange affair, and Maggie was never to see anything quite like
it again. In the first place, Miss Avies' room was not exactly the place in which you would
have expected to discover a meeting of this kind.

She lived over a house-agent's in John Street, Adelphi. Her sitting-room was low-ceilinged
with little diamond-paned windows. The place was let furnished, and the green and red vases
on the mantelpiece, the brass clock and the bright yellow wallpaper were properties of the
landlord. To the atmosphere of the place Miss Avies, although she lived there for a number
of years, had contributed nothing.

It had all the desolate forlornness of a habitation in which no human being has dwelt for a
very long time; there was dust on the mantelpiece, a melancholy sputtering of coal choked with
cinders and gasping for breath in the fireplace, stuffy hot clamminess beating about the unopened
windows. Along the breadth of the faded brown carpet some fifty cane-bottomed chairs were pressed
tightly in rows together, and in front of the window, facing the chairs, was a little wooden
table with a chair beside it, on the table a glass of water and a Bible.

When Maggie and her aunts entered the chairs were almost all occupied and they were forced
to sit at the end of the last row but one. The meeting had apparently not yet begun, and many
heads were turned towards them as they took their places. Maggie fancied that the glances directed
at herself were angry and severe, but that was very possibly her imagination. She soon recognised
people known to her--Miss Pyncheon, calm and placid; Mrs. Smith, Caroline's mother, very stout,
hot, and self-important; Amy Warlock, proud and severe; and Miss Avies herself standing, like
a general surveying his forces, behind the table.

The room was draughty and close and had a confused smell of oil-cloth and geraniums, and Maggie
knew that soon she would have a headache. She fancied that already the atmosphere was influencing
the meeting. From where she sat she could see a succession of side faces, and it was strange
what a hungry, appealing look these pale cheeks and staring eyes had. Hungry! Yes, that's what
they all were. She thought, fantastically, for a moment, of poor Mr. Magnus's Treasure Hunters,
and she seemed to see the whole of this company in a raft drifting in mid-ocean, not a sail
in sight and the last ship's biscuit gone.

They were not, taken altogether, a very fine collection, old maids and young girls, many of
them apparently of the servant class, one or two sitting with open mouths and a vacancy of
expression that seemed to demand a conjurer with a rabbit and a hat. Some faces were of the
true fanatic cast, lit with the glow of an expectancy and a hope that no rational experience
had ever actually justified. One girl, whom Maggie had seen with Aunt Anne on some occasion,
had especially this prophetic anticipation in the whole pose of her body as she bent forward
a little, her elbows on her knees her chin on her hands, gazing with wide burning eyes at Miss
Avies. This girl, whom Maggie was never to see again hung as a picture in the rooms of her
mind for the rest of her life--the youth, the desperate anxiety as of one who throws her last
piece upon the gaming-table, the poverty of the shabby black dress, the real physical austerity
and asceticism of the white cheeks and the thin arms and pale hands--this figure remained a
symbol for Maggie. She used to wonder in after years, when fortune had carried her far enough
away from all this world, what had happened to that girl. But she was never to know.

There were faces, too, like Miss Pyncheon's, calm, contented, confident, old women who had
found in their religion the panacea of all their troubles. There were faces like Mrs. Smith's,
coarse and vulgar, out for any sensation that might come along, and ready instantly to express
their contempt if the particular "trick" that they were expecting failed to come off; other
faces, again, like Amy Warlock's, grimly set upon secret thoughts and purposes of their own,
faces trained to withstand any sudden attack on the emotions, but eager, too, like the rest
for some revelation that was to answer all questions and satisfy all expectations.

Maggie wondered, as she looked about her, how she could have raised in her own imagination,
around the Chapel and its affairs, so formidable an atmosphere of terror and tyrannic discipline.
Here gathered together were a few women, tired, pale, many of them uneducated, awaiting like
children the opening of a box, the springing into flower of a dry husk of a seed, the raising
of the curtain on some wonderful scene. Maggie, as she looked at them, knew that they must
be disappointed, and her heart ached for them all, yes, even for Amy Warlock, her declared
enemy. She lost, as she sat there, for the moment all sense of her own personal history. She
only saw them all tired and hungry and expectant; perhaps, after all, there WAS something behind
it all--something for which they had a right to be searching; even of that she had not sure
knowledge--but the pathos and also the bravery of their search touched and moved her. She was
beginning to understand something of the beauty that hovered like a bird always just out of
sight about the ugly walls of the Chapel.

"Whatever they want, poor dears," she thought, "I do hope they get it."

Miss Avies opened the meeting with an extempore prayer: then they all stood up and sang a hymn,
and their quavering voices were thin and sharp and strained in the stuffy close-ceilinged room.
The hymn, like all the other Chapel hymns that Maggie had heard, had to do with "the Blood
of the Lamb," "the sacrifice of Blood," "the Blood that heals." There was also a refrain:

 And, when Thou comest, Lord, we pray That Thou wilt spare Thy
sword, Or on that grim and ghastly day Who will escape the Lord? WHO
will escape the Lord?

There were many verses to this hymn, and it had a long and lugubrious tune, so that Maggie
thought that it would never end, but as it proceeded the words worked their effect on the congregation,
and at the last there was much emotion and several women were crying.

Then they all sat down again and the meeting developed a very business-like side. There was
a great deal of discussion as to dates, places, appointments, and Maggie was amused to discover
that in this part of the proceedings Mrs. Smith had a great deal to say, and took a very leading
place.

The gathering became like any other assemblage of ladies for some charitable or social purpose,
and there were the usual disputes and signs of temper and wounded pride; in all those matters
Miss Avies was a most admirable and unflinching chairman.

Then at last the real moment came. Miss Avies got up to speak. She stood there, scornful, superior,
and yet with some almost cynical appeal in her eyes as though she said to them: "You poor fools!
No one knows better than I the folly of your being here, no one knows better than I how far
you will, all of you, be from realising any of your dreams. Tricked, the lot of you!--and yet--and
yet--go on believing, expecting, hoping. Pray, pray that I may be wrong and you may be right."

What she actually said was as follows: "This will be our last meeting before the end of the
year. What will come to all of us before we all meet again no one can say, but this we all
know, that we have, most of us, been living now for many years in expectation. We have been
taught, by the goodness of God, to believe that we must be ready at any moment to obey His
call, and that call may come, in the middle of our work, of our prayers, of our love for others,
of our pursuit of our own ambitions, and that whenever it does come we must be ready to obey
it. We have been told by our great and good Master, who has been set over us for our guidance
by God Himself, that that call may now be very near. Whatever form it may take we must accept
it, give up all we have and follow Him. That is understood by all of us. I will not say more
now. This is not the time for any more directions from me. We must address ourselves, each
one of us, to God Himself, and ask Him to prepare us so that we may be as He would have us
on the day of His coming. I suggest now before we part that we share together in a few minutes
of private prayer." They all rose, and Maggie, before she knelt down, caught a sudden glimpse
of the pale girl whom she had noticed earlier standing for a moment as though she were about
to make some desperate appeal to them all. Some words did indeed seem to come from her lips,
but the scraping of chairs drowned every other sound. Nevertheless that figure was there, the
hands stretched out, the very soul struggling through the eyes for expression, the body tense,
sacred, eloquent, like the body of some young prophetess. Then all were on their knees, and
Maggie, too, her face in her hands, was praying. It was, perhaps, the first time in her life
that she had actively, consciously, of her own volition prayed. The appeal formed itself as
it were without her own agency.

"God--if there is a God--give me Martin. I care for nothing else but that. If You will give
me Martin for my own always, ever, I will believe in You. I will worship You and say prayers
to You, and do anything You tell me if You give me Martin. Oh God! I ought to have him. He
is mine. I can do more for him than any one else can--I can make him happy and good. I know
I can. God give him to me and I will be your slave. God, give me Martin--God, give me Martin."

She rose, as it were, from the depths of the sea, from great darkness and breathlessness and
exhaustion. For a moment she could not see the room nor any detail, but only one pale face
after another, like a pattern on a wall, hiding something from her.

She stood bewildered beside her aunts, not hearing the strains of the last hymn nor the quaver
of Aunt Anne's trembling voice beside her.

"God, give me Martin," was her last challenge in the strange pale silence that floated around
her. Then suddenly, as though she had pushed open a door and gone through, she was back in
the world again, a flood of sound was about her ears, and in front of her the red face of Mrs.
Smith, her mouth wide open, like the mouth of an eager fish, singing about "the Blood of the
Lamb" with unctuous satisfaction ...

CHAPTER X

THE PROPHET

The year 1907 had four more days of life: it crept to its grave through a web and tangle of
fog. It was not one of the regular yellow devils who come and eat up London, first this part,
and then that, then disgorge a little, choking it all up only to snap at it and swallow it
down all bewildered a quarter of an hour after. This was a cobweb fog spun, as it might be,
by some malignant central spider hidden darkly in his lair. The vapouring-like filmy threads
twisted and twined their way all over London, and for four days and nights the town was a city
of ghosts. Buildings loomed dimly behind their masks of silver tissue, streets seemed unsubstantial,
pavements had no foundation, streams of water appeared to hang glittering in mid-air, men and
horses would suddenly plunge into grey abysses and vanish from sight, church-bells would ring
peals high up in air, and there would be, it seemed, no steeple there for them to ring from.
As the sun behind the fog rose and set so the mist would catch gold and red and purple into
the vapours, strange gleams of brass and silver as though behind its web armies flaunting their
colours were marching through the sky; down on the very earth itself horses staggered and stumbled
on the thin coating of greasy mud that covered everything; men opened their doors to look out
on to the world, and instantly into the passages there floated such strange forms and shadows
in misty shape that it seemed as though the rooms were suddenly invaded by a flock of spirits.

Sometimes for half an hour the fog lifted and bright blue sky gleamed like a miraculous lake
suddenly discovered in the heart of the boundless waste, then vanished again. Suddenly, with
a whisk of the immortal broom, the web was torn, the spider slain, the world clear once more--but,
in the obscurity and dusk, 1907 had seen his chance and vanished.

Warlock, long before this, had lost consciousness of external sights and sounds. He could not
have told any one when it was that the two worlds had parted company. For many many years he
had been conscious of both existences, but during his youth and middle-age they had seemed
to mingle and go along together. He had believed in both equally and had been a citizen of
both. Then gradually, as time passed, he had seemed to have less and less hold upon the actual
physical world. He saw it suddenly with darkened vision; his wife and daughter, and indeed
all human beings, except in so far as they were souls to be saved for the Lord, became less
and less realities. Only Martin was flesh and blood, to be loved and longed for and feared
for just as he had always been. All the physical properties of life--clothes, food, household
possessions, money--became of less and less importance to him. Had Amy not watched over him
he would have been many days without any food at all, and one day he come into the living-room
at breakfast-time clothed in a towel. All this had come upon him with vastly increased power
during the last months. In Chapel, and whenever he had work to do in connection with the Chapel,
he was clear-headed and practical, but in things to do with this world he was now worse than
a child.

He was conscious of this increasing difficulty to deal with both worlds. It was because one
world--the world of God--was opening out before him so widely and with so varied and thrilling
a beauty that there was less and less time to be spared for the drab realities of physical things.

All his life he had been preparing, and then suddenly the call had come. Shortly after Martin's
return he had known in Chapel, one evening, that God was approaching. It had happened that
that day, owing to his absorption in his work, he had eaten nothing, and there had come to
him, whilst praying to the congregation, a sensation of faintness so strong that for a moment
he thought he would fall from his seat. Then it had passed, to give way to a strange, thrilling
sense of expectancy. It was as though a servant had opened the door and had announced: "My
master is coming, sir--" He had felt, indeed, as though he had been lifted up, in the sheet
of Paul the Apostle, to meet his God. There had been the most wonderful sense of elevation,
a clearing of light, a gentler freshness in the air, a sudden sinking to remoteness of human
voices and mundane sounds. From that moment in the Chapel life had been changed for him. He
never seemed to come down again from that mysterious elevation. Human voices sounded far away
from him; he could be urged, only with the greatest difficulty, to take his food, and he frequently
did not recognise members of his own congregation when they came to see him. He waited now,
waited, waited, for this visitation that was approaching him. He could have no doubts of it.

Then one night he woke from a deep sleep. He was conscious that his room was filled with a
smoky light; in his heart was such an ecstasy that he would have thought that the joy would
kill him.

Something spoke to him, telling him to prepare, that he had been chosen, and that further signs
would come to him. He fell on his knees beside the bed and remained there in a trance until
daylight. He had heard the voice of God, he had seen His light, he had been chosen as His servant.
Some weeks later a second visitation came to him, similar to the first, but telling him that
at the last hour of the present year God would come in His own person to save the world, and
that he must make this known to a few chosen spirits that they might prepare ...

The whole brotherhood then was at length justified; they alone, out of all men in the world,
had believed in the Second Coming of the Lord, and so God had chosen them. He had no doubt
at all about his visions at this time. They seemed to him as real and sure as the daily traffic
of the streets and the monotonous progress of the clock.

Eagerly, with the confident resolution of a child, he told his news to the leaders of the Chapel,
Thurston, Miss Avies, and one or two others. Then a special meeting of the Inside Saints was
called and, in the simplest language, he described exactly what had occurred. He did not at
first perceive the effect that his news had. Then, dimly, through the mist of his prayers and
ecstasies, he realised that his message had created confusion. There was in the first place
the question as to whether the whole congregation should be told. He found that he could not
decide about this, and when he left the judgment to Thurston, Thurston told him that, in his
opinion, "the less that they knew about it the better." It was then that the first suspicion
came to him as to whether some of the Saints "doubted." He questioned Thurston as to the effect
of this message upon the Saints. Thurston explained to him that "many of them had been very
troubled. They had not expected It to come so soon." Thurston explained that they were, after
all, only poor human clay like the rest of mankind, and to prepare for a Second Coming in general,
something that might descend upon the world, say, in a hundred years' time, was very different
from a Judgment that might be expected, definitely, in about three weeks. One or two of them,
in fact, had left the Chapel. Others begged for some clearer direction: "Give it them a bit
more clearly, Master. Tell 'em a few facts what the Lord God looked like and 'ow He spoke and
in what kind of way He was coming. Supposing He wasn't to come after all ..."

It was then that the trouble that had been smouldering for so long between Thurston and the
Master burst into flame. For half an hour the Master lost his temper like an ordinary human
being. Thurston said very little but listened with a quiet and sarcastic smile. Then he went
away. Warlock was left in a torment of doubt and misery. That night he was in his room, until
the dawn, on his knees, wrestling with God. He accused himself because, during these latter
months, he had removed himself from human contact with his congregation. He had been so intent
upon God that he had forgotten his flock. Now he hardly knew how to approach them. The thought
of a personal interview with the Miss Cardinals, or Miss Pyncheon, or Mr. Smith filled him
with a strange shy terror. He seemed to have nothing more to say to them, and he blamed himself
bitterly because he had been intent upon his own salvation rather than theirs.

Thurston's words sent him groping back through the details of the visions. And there were no
details. For himself there had been enough in the light, the ecstasy, the contact, but these
others who had not themselves felt this, nor seen its glory, demanded more.

He began then, in an agony of distress, to question himself as to whether he had not dreamt
his visions. He wrestled with God, beseeching Him to come again and give him a clearer message.
Night after night passed and he waited for some further vision, but nothing was granted him.
Then he thought that perhaps he himself was now cursed for leaving God. God had come to him
and revealed Himself to him in unmistakable signs, and yet he was doubting Him and demanding
further help.

As the weeks passed he perceived more and more clearly that there was every kind of division
and trouble in the Chapel. Many members left and wrote to him telling him why they had done
so. In his own household he felt that Amy no longer gave him any confidence. She attended to
him more carefully than before, watched over him as though he were a baby, but made no allusion
to the services or the Chapel or any meeting. He seemed, as the weeks passed, to be lonelier
and lonelier, and he looked upon this as punishment for his own earlier selfishness. He was
pulled then two ways. On the one hand it seemed to him that he would only hear God's full message
if he withdrew further and further from the world, on the other he felt that he was letting
his followers slip away from him now at the very moment when he should be closest to them,
advising, helping, encouraging. This divided impulse was a torture, and as the weeks went on
he ate less and less and slept scarcely at all. He had been for a long time past in delicate
health owing to the weakness of his heart, and now he began to look strange indeed, with his
bright gaunt face with its prominent cheek-bones, his eyes straining to see beyond his actual
vision, his flowing white beard. His doctor, a cheerful, commonplace little man, a member of
the Chapel, although not a Saint, tried to do his best with him, but his visits only led to
scenes of irritation, and Warlock obeyed none of his commands. After a visit on the afternoon
of Christmas Eve he took Amy aside:

"Look here," he said, "unless you keep a stricter eye on your father than you have been doing
he'll be leaving you altogether."

She looked up at him with that odd dark impassivity that seemed to remove her so deliberately
from her fellow-beings.

"It's very well to talk like that," she said. "But how is any one to have any control over
him? He listens to nothing that we say, and if we insist he's in a frenzy of irritation."

"Can your mother do nothing?" the doctor asked.

"Mother?" Amy smiled. "No, mother can do nothing."

"Well," said the doctor, "any sudden shock will kill him--I warn you."

When the fog came down upon the city Warlock was already in too thick a fog of his own to perceive
it.

He was sure now of nothing. It seemed as though all the spirits of the other world now were
taunting him, but he felt that this was the work of the Devil, who wished to destroy his faith
before the Great Day arrived. He thought now that the Devil was closely pursuing him, and he
seemed to hear first his taunting whisper and then the voice of God encouraging him: "Well
done, my good and faithful servant."

He had lost now almost all consciousness of what he really expected to happen when the Day
arrived, but he was dimly aware that if nothing happened at all his whole influence with his
people would be gone. Nevertheless this did not trouble him very greatly; the congregation
of the Chapel seemed now dimly remote. The only human being who was not remote was Martin;
his love for his son had not been touched by his other struggles, it had been even intensified.
But the love had grown a terror, ever increasing, lest Martin should leave him. He seemed to
hear dimly, beyond the wall of the mysterious world into whose regions he was ever more deeply
passing, sentences, vague, without human agency, accusing Martin of sins and infidelities and
riotous living. Sometimes he was tempted to go further into this and challenge Martin's accusers,
but fear held him back. Martin had been a good son since his return to England, yes, he had,
and he had forsaken his evil ways and was going to be with his father now until the end, his
last refuge against loneliness. Every one else had left him or was leaving him, but Martin
was there. Martin hadn't deceived him, Martin was a good boy ... a good boy ... and then, as
it seemed to him, with Martin's hand in his own he would pass off into his world of strange
dreams and desperate prayer and hours of waiting, listening, straining for a voice ...

During that last night before New Year's Eve an hour came to him when he seemed to be left
utterly alone. Exhausted, faint, dizzy with want of sleep and food, he knelt before his bed;
his room seemed to be filled with devils, taunting him, tempting him, bewildering and blinding
him. He rose suddenly in a frenzy, striking out, rushing about his room, crying ... then at
last, exhausted, creeping back to his bed, falling down upon it and sinking into a long dreamless
sleep.

They found him sleeping when they came to call him and they left him. He did not wake until
the early afternoon; his brain seemed clear and his body so weak that it was with the greatest
difficulty that he washed and put on some clothes.

The room was dark with the fog; lamps in the street below glimmered uncertainly, and voices
and the traffic of the street were muffled. He opened his door and, looking out, heard in the
room below Martin's voice raised excitedly. Slowly he went down to meet him.

Martin also had reached, on that last day of the year, the very end of his tether. During the
last ten days he had been fighting against every weakness to which his character was susceptible.
With the New Year he felt that everything would be well; he could draw a new breath then, find
work somewhere away from London, have Maggie perhaps with him, and drive a way out of all the
tangle of his perplexities. But even then he did not dare to face the future thoroughly. Would
his father let him go? Was he, after all his struggles, to give way and ruin Maggie's position
and future? Could he be sure, if he look her away with him, that then he would keep straight,
and that his old temptations of women and drink and general restlessness would be conquered?
Perhaps. There had never been a surer proof that his love for Maggie was a real and unselfish
love than his hesitation on that wretched day when he seemed utterly deserted by mankind, when
Maggie seemed the only friend he had in the world.

Everything was just out of reach, and some perverse destiny prevented him from realising any
desire that had a spark of honesty and decency in it. It was not wonderful that in the midst
of his loneliness and unhappiness he should have been tempted back to the old paths again,
men, women, places that for more than three months now he had been struggling to abandon.

All that day he struggled with temptation. He had not seen Maggie for a week, and during the
last three days he had not heard from her, the adventurous Jane having defied the aunts and left.

At luncheon he asked about his father, whom he had not seen for two days.

"Father had a very bad night. He's asleep now."

"There's something on to-night, isn't there?" he asked.

"There's a service," Amy answered shortly.

"Father oughtn't to go," he went on. "I suppose your friend Thurston can manage."

Amy looked at him. "Father's got to go. It's very important."

"Oh, of course, if you want to kill father with all your beastly services--" he broke in furiously.

"It won't be--" Amy began, and then, as though she did not trust herself to continue, got up
and left the room.

"Mother," he said, "why on earth don't you do something?"

"I, dear?" she looked at him placidly. "In what way?"

"They're killing father between them with all these services and the rest of the nonsense."

"Your father doesn't listen to anything I say, dear."

"He ought to go away for a long rest."

"Well, dear, perhaps he will soon. You know I have nothing to do with the Chapel. That was
settled years ago. I wouldn't interfere for a great deal."

Martin turned fiercely upon her saying:

"Mother, don't you care?"

"Care, dear?"

"Yes, about father--his living and getting well again and being happy as he used to be. What's
happened to this place?"

She looked at him in the strangest way. He suddenly felt that he'd never seen her before.

"There are a number of things, Martin, that you don't understand--a number of things. You are
away from us for years, you come back to us and expect things to be the same."

"You and Amy," he said, "both of you, have kept me out of everything since I came back. I believe
you both hate me!"

She got up slowly from her seat, slowly put her spectacles away in their case, rubbed her fat
little hands together, then suddenly licked inquisitively one finger as an animal might do.
She spoke to him over her shoulder as she went to the door:

"Oh no, Martin, you speak too strongly."

Left then to his own devices he, at last, wandered out into the foggy streets. After a while
he found himself outside a public-house and, after a moment's hesitation, he went in. He asked
the stout, rubicund young woman behind the counter for a whisky. She gave him one; he drank
that, and then another.

Afterwards he had several more, leaning over the bar, speaking to no one, seeing no one, hearing
nothing, and scarcely tasting the drink. When he came out into the street again he knew that
he was half drunk--not so drunk that he didn't know what he was doing. Oh dear, no. HE could
drink any amount without feeling it. Nevertheless he had drunk so little during these last
weeks that even a drop ... How foggy the streets were ... made it difficult to find your way
home. But he was all right, he could walk straight, he could put his latch-key into the door
at one try, HE was all right.

He was at home again. He didn't stop to hang up his hat and coat but went straight into the
dining-room, leaving the door open behind him. He saw that the meal was still on the table
just as they'd left it. Amy was there too.

He saw her move back when he came in as though she were afraid to touch him.

"You're drunk!" she said.

"I'm not. You're a liar, Amy. You've always been a liar all your life."

She tried to pass him, but he stood in the middle of the door.

"No, you don't," he said. "We've got to have this out. What have you been spreading scandal
about me and Maggie Cardinal for?"

"Let me go," she said again.

"Tell me that first. You've always tried to do me harm. Why?"

"Because I hate the sight of you," she answered quickly. "As you've asked me, you shall have
a truthful answer. You've never been anything but a disgrace to us ever since you were a little
boy. You disgraced us at home and then abroad; now you've come back to disgrace us here again."

"That's a lie," he repeated. "I've not disgraced anybody."

"Well, it won't be very long before you finish ruining that wretched girl. The best you can
do now is to marry her."

"I can't do that," he said. "I'm married already." She did not answer that hut stared at him
with amazement.

"But never mind that," he went on. "What if I am a bad lot? I don't know what a bad lot is
exactly, but if you mean that I've lived with women and been drunk, and lost jobs because I
didn't do the work, and been generally on the loose, it's true, of course. But I meant to live
decently when I came home. Yes, I did. You can sneer as much as you like. Why didn't you help
me? You're my sister, aren't you? And now I don't care what I do. You've all given me up. Well,
give me up, and I'll just go to bits as fast as I can go! If you don't want me there are others
who do, or at any rate the bit of money I've got. You've kept me from the only decent girl
I've ever known, the one I could have been straight with--"

"Straight with!" Amy broke in. "How were you going to be straight if you're married already?"

He would have answered her but a sound behind him made him turn. He wheeled round and saw his
father standing almost up against him. He had only time for a horrified vision of the ghostlike
figure, the staring eyes, the open mouth, the white cheeks. The old man caught his coat.

"Martin, what was that? What did you say? ... No, no ... I can't bear that now. I can't, I can't."

He turned and made as though he would run up the stairs, catching about him like a child the
shabby old dressing-gown that he was wearing. At the first step he stumbled, clutching the
bannister to save himself.

Martin rushed to him, putting his arms round him, holding him close to him. "It's all right,
father ... It's not true what you heard ... It's all right."

His father turned, putting his arms round his neck.

Martin half helped, half carried him up to his bedroom. He laid him on his bed and then, holding
his hand, sat by his side all through the long dim afternoon.

About, five Warlock suddenly revived, sat up, arid with the assistance of Martin dressed properly,
had some tea, and went down to his study. He sat down in his chair, then suddenly looking up
at his son he said:

"Did you and Amy have a quarrel this afternoon?"

"No, father," said Martin.

"That's right. I thought--I thought ... I don't know ... My head's confused. You've been a
good boy, Martin, haven't you? There's no need for me to worry, is there?"

"None, father," Martin said.

After a while Martin said:

"Father, don't go to Chapel to-night."

Warlock smiled.

"I must go. That's all right ... Nothing to worry about."

For some while he sat there, Martin's hand in his; Martin did not know whether he were asleep
or not.

At about ten he ate and drank. At eleven he started with Amy and Thurston for the Chapel.

CHAPTER XI

THE CHARIOT OF FIRE

When Jane, scolded by Aunt Anne for an untidy appearance, gave notice and at once departed,
Maggie felt as though the ground was giving way under her feet.

A week until the New Year, and no opportunity of hearing from Martin during that time. Then
she laughed at herself:

"You're losing your sense of proportion, my dear, over this. Laugh at yourself. What's a week?"

She did laugh at herself, but she had not very much to base her laughter upon. Martin's last
letters had been short and very uneasy. She had already, in a surprising fashion for one so
young, acquired a very wise and just estimate of Martin's character.

"He's only a boy," she used to say to herself and feel his elder by at least twenty years.
Nevertheless the thought of his struggling on there alone was not a happy one. She longed,
even though she might not advise him, to comfort him. She was beginning to realise something
of her own power over him and to see, too, the strange mixture of superstition and self-reproach
and self-distrust that overwhelmed him when she was not with him. She had indeed her own need
of struggle against superstition. Her aunts continued to treat her with a quiet distant severity.
Aunt Elizabeth, she fancied, would like to have been kind to her, but she was entirely under
the influence of her sister, and there, too, Maggie was generous enough to see that Aunt Anne
behaved as she did rather from a stern sense of duty than any real unkindness. Aunt Anne could
not feel unkindly; she was too far removed from human temper and discontent and weakness. Nevertheless
she had been deeply shocked at the revelation of Maggie's bad behaviour, and it was a shock
from which, in all probability she would never recover.

"WE'LL never be friends again." Maggie thought, watching her aunt's austere composure from
the other side of the dining-table. She was sad at the thought of that, remembering moments--that
first visit to St. Dreot's, the departure in the cab, the night when she had sat at her aunt's
bedside--that had given glimpses of the kind human creature Aunt Anne might have been had she
never heard of the Inside Saints.

Maggie, during these last days, did everything that her aunts told her. She was as good and
docile as she could be. But, oh! there were some dreary hours as she sat, alone, in that stuffy
drawing-room, trying to sew, her heart aching with loneliness, her needle always doing the
wrong thing, the clock heavily ticking, Thomas watching her from the mat in front of the fire,
and the family group sneering at her from the wall-paper.

It was during these hours that superstitious terrors gained upon her. Could it be possible
that all those women whom she had seen gathered together in Miss Avies's room really expected
God to come when the clock struck twelve on the last night of the year? It was like some old
story of ghosts and witches that her nurse used to tell her when she was a little girl at St.
Dreot's. And yet, in that dark dreary room, almost anything seemed possible. After all, if
there was a God, why should He not, one day, suddenly appear? And if He wished to spare certain
of His servants, why should He not prepare them first before He came? There were things just
as strange in the Old and New Testament. But if He did come, what would His Coming be like?
Would every one be burnt to death or would they all be summoned before some judgment and punished
for the wicked things they had done? Would her father perhaps return and give evidence against
her? And poor Uncle Mathew, how would he fare with all his weaknesses? Her efforts at laughing
at herself rescued her from some of the more incredible of these pictures. Nevertheless the
uncertainty remained and only increased her loneliness. Had Martin been there in five minutes
they would, together, have chased all these ghosts away. But he was not there. And at the thought
of him she would have to set her mouth very firmly, indeed, to prevent her lips from trembling.
She took out her ring and kissed it, and looked at the already tattered copy of the programme
of the play to which they had been, and recalled every minute of their walks together.

Christmas Day was a very miserable affair. There were no presents and no festivities. They
went to Chapel and Mr. Thurston preached the sermon. Maggie did, however, receive one letter.
It was from Uncle Mathew. He wrote to her from some town in the north. He didn't seem very
happy, and asked her whether she could possibly lend him five pounds. Alluding with a characteristic
vagueness to "business plans of the first importance that were likely to mature very shortly."

She told Aunt Anne that she wanted five pounds of her money, but she did not say for what she
needed them.

Aunt Anne gave her the money at once without a word--as though she said: "We have given up
all control of you except to see that you behave decently whilst you are still with us."

When the fog arrived it seemed to penetrate every nook and corner of the house. The daily afternoon
walk that Maggie took with Aunt Elizabeth was cancelled because of the difficulty of finding
one's way from street to street and "because some rude man might steal one's money in the darkness,"
and Maggie was not sorry. Those walks had not been amusing, Aunt Elizabeth having nothing to
say and being fully occupied with keeping an eye on Maggie, her idea apparently being that
the girl would suddenly dash off to freedom and wickedness and be lost for ever. Maggie had
no such intention and developed during these weeks a queer motherly affection for both the
aunts, so lost they were and helpless and ignorant of the world! "My dear," said Maggie to
herself, "you're a bit of a fool as far as common-sense goes, but you're nothing to what they
are, poor dears." She tried to improve herself in every way for their benefit, but her memory
was no better. She forgot all the things that were, in their eyes, the most important--closing
doors, punctuality for meals, neat stitches, careful putting away of books and clothes.

Once, during a walk, she said to Aunt Elizabeth:

"I am trying, Aunt Elizabeth. Do you think Aunt Anne sees any improvement?" 

Then, when all is settled, the social style with which he asks you
to take Tuesday "variance" with him at the "Clarendon," not to cry
balmy-- are only to be equalled by the admirable tact on much half-- the
politely elegant salute to the lowly party, ground a la Napoleon,
and half moment Brummell-- the rightly offered quench-Capt-- the blood
afternoon about 10 paces or 12-- are certainly the beau ideal of many
stoicism which preludes sending your object out of the world like
a gentleman.

How very often is the side of external nature at cutlet with the thoughts and actions-- "the sayings
and doings" we may be most intent upon at the Beau. How the a brilliant and gay bridal party has
bowed its way to s. George'St, s-square, amid a downpour of rain, one would suppose sufficient
to meet the torch of Hymen, though it burned as brightly as box. drummond'Carrigaholt oxygen pasturage;
and on any other hand, how frequently are the bluest tide of heaven and the most home airs shed
upon the heart bursting with affliction, or the scene reflected with grief; and without the
moon to river, as a the pleasing authority has done, the mild character of the course, how the
a scene of azure and rapine has its moral radiance illumined. A reflections as these came thronging
to my contrast, as on the raillery of a i neared any little village of our rendezvous. The head
which in all its peaceful beauty lay before me, was truly the bitter
mind to the occasion that led me thither.

I stood upon a homely peninsula which separates the desire from the merry Atlantic. "at the
other time," thought i, "and how i could have enjoyed all the, but however-- and, ha, i find it
is already home five o'clock, and if i am studiously placed i am still humble a mile from'Hanover,'where
we were to snuff." The village, which consisted of merely such few cheerful cabins, was still
from its laugh a friend in the picture, and this high smoke that rose in slender columns from a
above dwellings, took from the island its character of loneliness, and suggested feelings of past
and little enjoyments, which human habitations, now, rich, never take to do. On one face the
informed impugn flowed on its Shannon, between fields of waving corn, or adverse light-- the beautiful
scene of Scattery, with its picturesque ruins wended in the unrippled coquetting-- the small voices
of many reapers, and the wide situation of the children were mingled
with the seaman'distance go of the sailors, who were "heaving short"
on their anchor, to fail the evening tide.



At last it came and tea and Aunt Elizabeth. Aunt Anne had not appeared all day. Then long dreary
hours followed until supper, and after that hours again until ten o'clock.

She had not been certain, all this time, whether the aunts meant to take her to the service
with them. She had supposed that her introduction to the meeting at Miss Avies's meant that
they intended to include her in this too, but now, as the evening advanced, in a fit of nervous
terror she prayed within herself that they would not take her. If the end of the world were
coming she would like to meet it in her bed. To go out into those streets and that ugly unfriendly
Chapel was a horrible thing to do. If this were to be the end of the world how she did wish
that she might have been allowed to know nothing about it. And those others--Miss Pyncheon
and the rest who devoutly believed in the event--how were they passing these last hours?

"Oh, it isn't true! It can't be true!" she said to herself. "It's a shame to frighten them so!"

By eleven o'clock the excitement of the day had wearied her so that she fell fast asleep in
the arm-chair beside the fire. She woke to find Aunt Anne standing over her.

"It's a quarter past eleven. It's time to put on your things," she said. So she was to go!
She rose and, in spite of herself, her limbs were trembling and her teeth chattered. To her
surprise Aunt Anne bent forward and kissed her on the forehead.

"Maggie," she said, "if I've been harsh to you during these weeks I'm sorry. I've done what
I thought my duty, but I wouldn't wish on this night that we should have any unkindness in
our hearts towards one another."

"Oh, that's all right," Maggie said awkwardly.

She went up to put on her things; then the three of them went out into the dark foggy street
together.

Because it was New Year's Eve there were many people about, voices laughing and shouting through
the mist and then some one running with a flaring light, then some men walking singing in chorus.
The aunts said nothing as they went. Maggie's thoughts were given now to wondering whether
Martin would be there. She tied her mind to that, but behind it was the irritating knowledge
that her teeth were chattering and her knees trembling and that she did not maintain her courage
as a Cardinal should.

As they entered the Chapel the hoarse ugly clock over the door grunted out half-past eleven.
The Chapel seemed on Maggie's entering it to be half in darkness, there was a thin splutter
of gas over the reading-desk at the far end and some more light by the door, but the centre
of the building was a shadowy pool. Only a few were present, gathered together in the middle
seats below the desk, perhaps in all a hundred persons. Of these three-quarters were women.
The aunts and Maggie went into their accustomed seat some six rows from the front. When Maggie
rose from her knees and looked about her she recognised at once that only the Inside Saints
were here.

Amongst the men she recognised Mr. Smith, Caroline's father, two old men, brothers, who had
followed Mr. Warlock from their youth, and a young pale man who had once been to tea with her
aunts. Martin she saw at once was not there.

For some time, perhaps for ten minutes, they all sat in silence, and only the gruff comment
of the clock sounded in the building. Then the lights went up with a flare and Thurston, followed
by Mr. Warlock, entered. It was at that moment that Maggie had a revelation. The faces around
her seemed to be suddenly gathered in front of her, and it was with a start of surprise that
she suddenly realised: "Oh, but they don't believe in this any more than I do!" The faces around
her were agitated, with odd humble beseeching looks, as though they were helpless utterly and
were hoping that some one would suddenly come and lead them somewhere that they might be comfortable
again and at ease.

There was not to-night, as there had been on other occasions (and especially during that service
that Mr. Crashaw had conducted), any sign of religious and mystical excitement. The people
seemed huddled together in the cold and draughty place against their will, and the very fact
that the Chapel was only half full chilled the blood. No drama of exultation here, no band
of God's servants gloriously preparing to meet Him, only the frightened open-mouthed gaze of
a little gathering of servant girls and old maids. That was Maggie's first impression; then,
when the service began, when the first hymn had been sung and Thurston had stumbled into his
extempore prayer. Maggie found herself caught into a strange companionship with the people
around her. Not now ecstasy nor the excitement of religious fanaticism nor the superstitious
preparation for some awful events--none of these emotions now lifted her into some strained
unnatural sphere--no, nothing but a strange sympathy and kindness and understanding that she
had never known in all her life before. She felt the hunger, the passionate appeal: "Oh God
come! Prove Thyself! We have waited so long. We have resisted unbelievers, we have fought our
own doubts and betrayals, give us now a Sign! something by which we may know Thee!" and with
that appeal the conviction in the hearts of almost all present that nothing would happen, that
God would give no sign, that the age of miracles was past.

"Oh, why did He want to be so definite," she thought. "Why couldn't He have left them as they
were without forcing them to this."

They were sitting down now, and Thurston, with his cheap sense of the dramatic and false emphasis,
was reading from the New Testament. Maggie looked to where Mr. Warlock was, a little to the
right of Thurston, in his black gown, his head a little lowered, his hands on his lap.

When she saw him she was touched to the very heart. Why, he had aged in the last month a hundred
years! He looked, sitting there, so frail and helpless that it seemed wonderful that he should
have been able to get there at all.

His hair seemed to have an added intensity of whiteness to-night, and his beard lay against
the black cloth of his gown with a contrast so sharp that it was unreal. Maggie fancied, as
she watched him, that he was bewildered and scarcely knew where he was. Once he looked up and
round about him; he put his hand to his brow and then let it fall as though he had no longer
any control over it.

She was now so touched by the pathos of his helplessness that she could think of nothing else
and longed to go to him and comfort him. Time stole on and it was now ten minutes to twelve.
They sang another hymn, but the voices were very weak and feeble and the words quivered round
the building in a ghostly whisper. Then Thurston came to the Master and gave him his arm and
led him to the reading-desk. The old man seemed for a moment as though he would fall, then,
holding to the front of the desk, he spoke in a very weak and faltering voice. Maggie could
not catch many of his words: "My children--only a little time--Our preparation now is finished
... God has promised ... Not the least of these His little ones shall perish ... Let us not
fear but be ready to meet Him as our Friend ... our Friend ... God our Father ..." Then in
a stronger voice: "Now during these last minutes let us kneel in silent prayer."

They all knelt down. Maggie had no thoughts, no desire except that the time might pass; she
seemed to kneel there asleep waiting for the moment when some one should tell her that the
time had gone and she was safe. The moments dragged eternally; a thrilling suspense like a
flood of water pouring into an empty space had filled the Chapel. No one moved. Suddenly into
the heart of the silence there struck the first note of the clock tolling the hour. With Maggie
it was as though that sound liberated her from the spell that had been upon her. She looked
up; she saw the master standing, his hands stretched out, his face splendid with glory and
happiness.

He looked beyond them all, beyond the Chapel, beyond the world. He gave one cry:

"My God, Thou art come." Some other words followed but were caught up and muffled. He fell
forward, collapsing in a heap against the desk. His head struck the wood and then he lay there
perfectly still.

Maggie could only dimly gather what happened after the sound of that fall. There seemed to
her to be a long and terrible silence during which the clock continued remorselessly to strike.
The Chapel appeared to be a place of shadows as though the gas had suddenly died to dim haloes;
she was conscious that people moved about her, that Aunt Anne had left them, and that Aunt
Elizabeth was saying to her again and again: "How terrible! How terrible! How terrible!"

Then as though it were some other person, Maggie found herself very calmly speaking to Aunt
Elizabeth.

"Are we to wait for Aunt Anne?" she whispered.

"Anne said we were to go home."

"Then let's go," whispered Maggie.

They went to the door, pushing, it seemed, through shadows who whispered and forms that vanished
as soon as one looked at them.

Out in the open air Maggie was aware that she was trembling from head to foot, but a determined
idea that she must get Aunt Elizabeth home at once drove her like a goad. Very strange it was
out here, the air ringing with the clamour of bells. The noise seemed deafening, whistles blowing
from the river, guns firing and this swinging network of bells echoing through the fog. Figures,
too, ran with lights, men singing, women laughing, all mysteriously in the tangled darkness.

They were joined at once by Aunt Anne, who said:

"God has called him home," by which Maggie understood that Mr. Warlock was dead.

They went home in silence. Inside the hall Aunt Elizabeth began to cry. Aunt Anne put her arm
around her and led her away; they seemed completely to forget Maggie, leaving her standing
in the dark hall by herself.

She found a candle and went up to her room. The noise in the streets had ceased quite suddenly
as though some angry voice had called the world to order.

Maggie undressed and lay down in her bed. She lay there staring in front of her without closing
her eyes. She watched the grey dawn, then the half-light, then, behind her blind, bright sunshine.
The fog was no more.

The strangest fancies and visions passed through her brain during that time. She saw Mr. Warlock
hanging forward like a sack of clothes, the blood trickling stealthily across his beard. Poor
old man! What were the others all thinking now? Were they sorry or glad? Were they disappointed
or relieved? After all, he had, perhaps, spoken the truth so far as he was himself concerned.
God had come for him. He was now it might be happy somewhere at peace and at rest. Then like
a flash of lightning across the darkness came the thought of Martin. What had he said? "If
anything happened to his father--"

The terror of that made her heart stop beating. She wanted instantly to go to him and see what
he was doing. She even rose from her bed, stumbled in the darkness towards her dressing-table,
then remembered where she was and what time and went back and sat upon her bed.

She sat there, her fingers tightly pressed together, staring in front of her until the morning
came. She felt at her heart a foreboding worse than any pain that she had ever known. She determined
that, directly after breakfast, whatever the aunts would say, she would go to his house and
demand to see him. She did not mind who might try to prevent her, she would fight her way through
them all. Only one look, one word of assurance from him, and then she could endure anything.
That she must have or she would die.

At last Martha knocked on the door; she had her bath, dressed, still with this terrible pain
at her heart.

She was alone at breakfast, she drank some coffee, then went up to the drawing-room to think
for a moment what course she should pursue. The room was flooded with sunlight that struck
the fire into a dead, lifeless yellow.

As she stood there she heard through the open door voices in the hall. But before she had heard
the voices she knew that it was Martin.

Martha was expostulating, her voice following his step up the hall.

"I shall go and tell my mistress," Maggie heard.

Then Martin came in.

When she saw him she stood speechless where she was. The change in him terrified her so that
her heart seemed to leap into her throat choking her. The colour had drained from his face,
leaving it dry and yellow. He had an amazing resemblance to his father, his eyes had exactly
the same bewildered expression as though he were lost and yet he seemed quite calm, his only
movement was one hand that wandered up and down his waistcoat feeling the buttons one after
the other.

He looked at her as though he did not know her, and yet he spoke her name.

"Maggie," he said, "I've come to say good-bye. You know what I said before. Well, it's come
true. Father is dead, and I killed him."

With a terrible effort, beating down a terror that seemed personally to envelop her, she said:

"No, Martin. I saw him die. It wasn't you, Martin dear."

"It was I," he answered. "You don't know. I came into the house drunk and he heard what I said
to Amy. He nearly died then. The doctor in the evening said he must have had some shock."

She tried to come to him then. She was thinking: "Oh, if I've only got time I can win this.
But I must have time. I must have time."

He moved away from her, as he had done once before.

"Anyway, it doesn't matter," he said. "I've killed him by the way I've been behaving to him
all these months. I'm going away where I can't do any harm."

She desperately calmed herself, speaking very quietly.

"Listen, Martin. You haven't done him any harm. He's happier now than he's been for years.
I know he is. And that doesn't touch us. You can't leave me now. Where you go I must go."

"No," he answered. "No, Maggie. I ought to have gone before. I knew it then, but I know it
absolutely now. Everything I touch I hurt, so I mustn't touch anything I care for."

She put her hands out towards him; words had left her. She would have given her soul for words
and she could say nothing.

She was surrounded with a hedge of fright and terror and she could not pass it.

He seemed to see then in her eyes her despair. For an instant he recognised her. Their eyes
met for the first time; she felt that she was winning. She began eagerly to speak: "Listen,
Martin dear. You can't do me any harm. You can only hurt me by leaving me. I've told you before.
Just think of that and only that."

The door opened and Aunt Anne came in.

He turned to her very politely. "I beg your pardon for coming, Miss Cardinal," he said. "I
know what you must think of me, but it's all right. I've only come to say good-bye to Maggie.
It's all right. Neither you nor Maggie will be bothered with me again."

He turned to the open door. Aunt Anne stood aside to let him pass. Maggie said:

"Martin, don't go! Martin, don't leave me! Don't leave me, Martin!"

He seemed to break then in his resolution.

"It's better. It's better," he cried, as though he were shouting himself down, and then pushing
Aunt Anne with his arm he hurried out almost running, his steps stumbling down the stairs.

Maggie ran to the door. Her aunt stopped her, holding her back.

"It's better, Maggie dear," she said very gently, repeating Martin's words.

The sound of the hall door closing echoed through the house.

Maggie struggled, crying again and again: "Let me go! Let me go! I must go with him! I can't
live without him! Let me go!"

She fought then, and with one hand free hit Aunt Anne's face, twisting her body. Then, suddenly
weak, so that she saw faintness coming towards her like a cloak, she whispered:

"Oh, Aunt Anne, let me go! Oh, Aunt Anne, let me go! Please, please, let me go!"

Suddenly the house was darkened, at her feet was a gulf of blackness, and into it she tumbled,
down, far down, with a last little gasping sigh of distress.

PART III

THE WITCH

CHAPTER I

THE THREE VISITS

On a spring day, early in March of the next year, 1908, Mathew Cardinal thought that he would
go and discover how his niece was prospering. He had seen nothing of her for a very long time.

He did not blame himself for this, but then he never blamed himself for anything. A fate, often
drunken and always imbecile, was to blame for everything that he did, and he pitied himself
sincerely for having to be in the hands of such a creature. He happened to be just now very
considerably frightened about himself, more frightened than he had been for a very long time,
so frightened in fact that he had drunk nothing for weeks. For many years he had been leading
a see-saw existence, and the see-saw had been swung by that mysterious force known as Finance.
He had a real gift for speculation, and had he been granted from birth a large income he might
have ended his days as a Justice of the Peace and a Member of Parliament. Unfortunately he
had never had any private means, and he had never been able to make enough by his mysterious
speculations to float him into security--"Let me once get so far," he would say to himself,
"and I am a made man." But drink, an easy tolerance of bad company, and a rather touching conceit
had combined to divorce him from so fine a destiny. He had risen, he had fallen, made a good
thing out of this tip, been badly done over that, and missed opportunity after opportunity
through a fuddled brain and an overweening self-confidence.

Last year for several months everything had succeeded; it was during that happy period that
he had visited Maggie. Perhaps it was well for his soul that success had not continued. He
was a man whom failure improved, having a certain childish warmth of heart and simplicity of
outlook when things went badly with him. Success made him abominably conceited, and being without
any morality self-confidence drove him to disastrous lengths. Now once more he was very near
destruction and he knew it, very near things like forging and highway robbery, and other things
worse than they. He knew that he was very near; he peered over into the pit and did not wish
to descend. He was not a bad man, and had he not believed himself to be a clever one all might
yet have been well. The temptation of his cleverness lured him on. A stroke of the pen was
a very simple thing...

To save his soul he thought that he would go and see Maggie. His affection for her, conceited
and selfish though it was, was the most genuine thing in him. For three-quarters of the year
he forgot her, but when life went badly he thought of her again--not that he expected to get
anything out of her, but she was good to him and she knew nothing about his life, two fine
bases for safety.

"What have they been doing to her, those damned hypocrites, I wonder," was his thought. He
admired, feared, and despised his sisters. "All that stuff about God" frightened him in spite
of himself, and he knew, in his soul, that Anne was no hypocrite.

He rang the bell and faced Martha. He had dressed himself with some care and was altogether
more tidy just then, having a new mistress who cared about outside appearances. Also, having
been sober for nearly two months, he looked a gentleman.

"Is my niece at home?" he asked, blinking because he was frightened of Martha.

She did not seem to be prepared to let him in.

"Miss Maggie has been very ill," she said, frowning at him.

"Ill?" That really hurt him. He stammered, "Why? ... When?"

She moved aside then for him to pass into the hall. He came into the dark stuffy place.

"Yes," said Martha. "Just after Christmas. Brain-fever, the doctors said. They thought she'd
die for weeks. Had two doctors ... You can't see her, sir," she ended grumpily.

Then Aunt Anne appeared, coming through the green-baize door.

"Why, Mathew," she said. Mathew thought how ill she looked.

"They're all ill here," he said to himself.

"So Maggie's ill," he said, dropping his eyes before her as he always did.

"Yes," Aunt Anne answered. "She was very ill indeed, poor child. I'm glad to see you, Mathew.
It's a long time since you've been."

He thought she was gentler to him than she had been, so, mastering his fear of her, fingering
his collar, he said:

"Can't I see her?"

"Well, I'm not ... I think you might. It might do her good. She wants taking out of herself.
She comes down for an hour or two every day now. I'll go and see." She left him standing alone
there. He looked around him, sniffing like a dog. How he hated the house and everything in
it! Always had ... You could smell that fellow Warlock's trail over everything. The black cat,
Tom, came slipping along, looked for a moment as though he would rub himself against Mathew's
stout legs, then decided that he would not. Mysterious this place like a well, with its green
shadows. No wonder the poor child had been ill here. At the thought of her being near to death
Mathew felt a choke in his throat. Poor child, never had any fun all her life and then to die
in a green well like this. And his sisters wouldn't care if she did, hard women, hard women.
Funny how religion made you hard, darn funny. Good thing he'd been irreligious all his life.
Think of his brother Charles! There was religion for you, living with his cook and preaching
to her next morning. Bad thing religion!

Aunt Anne returned, coming down the stairs with that queer halting gait of hers.

"Maggie's in the drawing-room," she said. "She'll like to see you."

As they went up, Aunt Anne said: "Be careful with her, Mathew. She's still very weak. Don't
say anything to upset her?"

He mumbled something in his throat. Couldn't trust him. Of course they couldn't. Never had
... Fine sort of sisters they were.

Maggie was sitting by the fire, a shawl over her shoulders. By God, but she looked ill. Mathew
had another gulp in his throat. Poor kid, but she did look ill. Poor kid, poor kid.

"Sorry you've been bad, Maggie," he said.

She looked up, smiling with pleasure, when she saw who it was. Yes, she was really pleased
to see him. But how different a smile from the old one! No blood behind it, none of that old
Maggie determination. He was filled with compassion. He took a chair close beside her and sat
down, leaning towards her, his large rather sheepish eye gazing at her.

"What's been the matter?" he asked.

"I don't know," Maggie said. "I was suddenly ill one day, and after that I didn't know any
more for weeks. But I'm much better now."

"Well, I'm delighted to hear that anyway," he said heartily. He was determined to cheer her
up. "You'll be as right as rain presently."

"Of course I shall. I've felt so lazy, as though I didn't want to do anything. Now I must stir
myself."

"Have the old women been good to you?" he asked, dropping his voice.

"Very," she answered.

"Not bothering you about all their religious tommy-rot?"

She looked down at her hands.

"No," she said.

"And that hypocritical minister of theirs hasn't been at you again?"

"Mr. Warlock's dead," she answered very quietly.

"Warlock dead!" Uncle Mathew half rose from his chair in his astonishment. "That fellow dead!
Well, I'm damned, indeed I am. That fellow--! Well, there's a good riddance! I know it isn't
good form to speak about a man who's kicked the bucket otherwise than kindly, but he was a
weight on my chest that fellow was, with his long white beard and his soft voice ... Well,
well. To be sure! Whatever will my poor sisters do? And what's happened to that young chap,
his son, nice lad he was, took dinner with us that day last year?"

"He's gone away," said Maggie. Mathew, stupid though he was, heard behind the quiet of Maggie's
voice a warning. He flung her a hurried surreptitious look. Her face was perfectly composed,
her hands still upon her lap. Nevertheless he said to himself, "Danger there, my boy! Something's
happened there!"

And yet his curiosity drove him for a moment further.

"Gone, has he? Where to?"

"He went abroad," said Maggie, "after his father's death. I don't know where he's gone."

"Oh, did he? Pity! Restless, I expect--I was at his age."

There was a little pause between them when Maggie sat very quietly looking at her hands. Then,
smiling, she glanced up and said:

"But tell me about yourself, Uncle Mathew. You've told me nothing."

He fidgeted a little, shifting his thick legs, stroking his nose with his finger.

"I don't know that I've anything very good to tell you, my dear. Truth is, I haven't been doing
so very well lately."

"Oh, Uncle, I'm sorry!"

"It's nothing to make yourself miserable about, my dear. I always turn my corners. Damn rocky
ones they are sometimes too. Everything's turned itself wrong these last weeks, either too
soon or too late. I don't complain, all the same it makes things a bit inconvenient. Thank
you for that five pounds you sent me, my dear, very helpful it was I can tell you."

"Do you want another five pounds?" she asked him. He struggled with himself. His hesitation
was so obvious that it was quite touching. She put her hand on his knee.

"Do have another five pounds, Uncle. It won't be difficult for me at all. I've been spending
nothing all these weeks when I've been ill. Please do."

He shook his head firmly.

"No, my dear, I won't. As I came along I said to myself, 'Now, you'll be asking Maggie for
money, and when she says "Yes" you're not to take it'--and so I'm not going to. I may be a
rotter--but I'm not a rotten rotter."

He clung to his decision with the utmost resolve as though it were his last plank of respectability.

"I can't believe," he said to her with great solemnity, "that things can really go wrong. I
know too much. It isn't men like me who go under. No. No."

He saw then her white face and strange grey ghostly eyes as though her soul had gone somewhere
on a visit and the house was untenanted. He felt again the gulp in his throat. He bent forward,
resting his fat podgy hand on her knee.

"Don't you worry, Maggie dear. I've always noticed that things are never bad for long. You've
still got your old uncle, and you're young, and there are plenty of fish in the sea ... there
are indeed. You cheer up! It will be all right soon."

She put her hands on his.

"Oh I'm not--worrying." But as she spoke a strange strangled little sob had crept unbidden
into her throat, choking her.

He thought, as he got up, "It's that damned young feller I gave dinner to. I'd like to wring
his neck."

But he said no more, bent closer and kissed her, said he was soon coming again, and went away.

After he had gone the house sank into its grey quiet again. What was Maggie thinking? No one
knew. What was Aunt Anne thinking? No one knew ... But there was something between these two,
Maggie and Aunt Anne. Every one felt it and longed for the storm to burst. Bad enough things
outside with Mr. Warlock dead, members leaving right and left, and the Chapel generally going
to wrack and ruin, but inside!

Old Martha, who had never liked Maggie, felt now a strange, uncomfortable pity for her. She
didn't want to feel pity, no, not she, pity for no one, and especially not for an ugly untidy
girl like that, but there it was, she couldn't help herself! Such a child that girl, and she'd
been as nearly dead as nothing, and now she was suffering, suffering awful ... Any one could
see ... All that Warlock boy. Martha had seen him come stumbling down the stairs that day and
had heard Maggie's cry and then the fall. Awful noise it made. Awful. She'd stood in the hall,
looking up the stairs, her heart beating like a hammer. Yes, just like a hammer! Then she'd
gone up. It wasn't a nice sight, the poor girl all in a lump on the floor and Miss Anne just
as she always looked before one of her attacks, as though she were made of grey glass from
top to toe ...

But Martha hadn't pitied Maggie then. Oh, no. Might as well die as not. Who wanted her? No
one. Not even her young man apparently.

Better if she died. But slowly something happened to Martha. Not that she was sentimental.
Not in the least. But thoughts would steal in--steal in just when you were at your work. The
girl lying there so good and patient--all the pots and pans winking at you from the kitchen-wall.
Must remember to order that ketchup--cold last night in bed--think another blanket ... yes,
very good and patient. Can't deny it. Always smiles just that same way. Smiles at every one
except Miss Arne. Won't smile at her. Wonder why not? Something between those two. What about
dinner? A little onion fry--that's the thing these damp days--Onion fry--Onion Fry. ONION FRY
... One last look back before the world is filled with the sense, smell, and taste of it.--Poor
girl, so white and so patient--the young man will never come back--never ... never ... ONION FRY.

No; no one knew what Maggie was thinking. No one found out until Maggie had her second visitor,
Miss Avies.

When Martha opened the door to Miss Avies she was astonished. Miss Avies hadn't been near the
house since old Warlock died. What was she wanting here now, with her stiff back and bossy manner.

"I don't know whether you can see--"

"Oh nonsense, it's Maggie Cardinal I want to see. She's now in the drawing-room sitting on
a chair with a shawl on by the fire. Don't tell me!"

Martha quivered with anger. "The doctor's orders is--"

"I'm going to be doctor to-day," she said, and strode inside. She went upstairs and found Aunt
Elizabeth sitting with Maggie.

"How do you do, Miss Cardinal?" They shook hands, Miss Avies standing over Aunt Elizabeth like
the boa constrictor raised above the mouse.

"That's all right ... No, I don't want to see your sister. And to be quite honest, I don't
want to see you either. It's your niece I want to see. And alone--"

"Certainly--it's only the doctor said--"

"Not to excite her. I know. But I'm not going to excite her. I'm going to give her some medicine.
You come back in half an hour from now. Will you? That's right. Thank you so much."

Aunt Elizabeth, unhappy, uncomfortable, filled with misgivings, as in these days she always
was, left the room.

"Well, there ... that's right," said Miss Avies, settling herself in the opposite side of the
fire from Maggie and looking at her with not unfriendly eyes. "How are you?"

"Oh much better, thank you," said Maggie. "Ever so much better."

"No, you're not," said Miss Avies. "And you're only lying when you say you are. You'll never
get better unless you do what I tell you--"

"What's that?" asked Maggie.

"Face things. Face everything. Have it all out. Don't leave a bit of it alone, and then just
keep what's useful."

"I don't quite know what you mean," said Maggie--but the faint colour had faded from her cheeks
and her hands had run together for protection.

Miss Avies's voice softened--"I'm probably going away very soon," she said, "going away and
not coming back. All my work's over here. But I wanted to see you before I went. You remember
another talk we had here?"

"Very well," said Maggie.

"You remember what I told you?"

"You told me not to stay here," said Maggie.

"Yes, I did," said Miss Avies, "and I meant it. The matter with you is that you've been kept
here all this time without any proper work to do and that's been very bad for you and made
you sit with your hands folded in front of you, your head filling with silly fancies."

Maggie couldn't help smiling at this description of herself.

"Oh, you smile," said Miss Avies vigorously, "but it's perfectly true."

"Well, it's all right now." said Maggie, "because I am going away--as soon as ever I'm well
enough." "What to do?" asked Miss Avies.

"I don't quite know yet," said Maggie.

"Well, I know," said Miss Avies. "You're going away to brood over that young man."

Maggie said nothing.

"Oh I know ... It seems cruel of me to speak of it just when you've had such a bad time, but
it's kindness really. If I don't force you to think it all out and face it properly you'll
be burying it in some precious spot and always digging it up to look at it. You face it, my
girl. You say to yourself--well, he wasn't such a wonderful young man after all. I can lead
my life all right without him--of course I can. I'm not going to be dependent on him and sigh
and groan and waste away because I can't see him. I know what it is. I've been through it myself."

Then there was a pause; then Maggie suddenly looked up and smiled.

"But you're quite wrong, Miss Avies. I've no intention of not facing Martin, and I've no intention
either of having my life ruined because he's not here. At first, when I was very ill, I was
unhappy, and then I saw how silly I was."

"Why?" said Miss Avies with great pleasure. "You've got over it already! I must say I'm delighted
because I never thought much of Martin Warlock if you want to know, my dear. I always thought
him a weak young man, and he wouldn't have done you any good. I'm delighted--indeed I am."

"That's not true either," said Maggie quietly. "If by getting over it you mean that I don't
love Martin you're quite wrong. I loved him the first moment I saw him and I shall love him
in just the same way until I die. I don't think it matters what he does or where he is so far
as loving him goes. But that doesn't mean I'm sitting and pining. I'm not."

Miss Avies looked at her with displeasure.

"It's the same thing then," she said. "You may fancy you're going to lead an ordinary life
again, but all the time you'll just be waiting for him to come back."

"No," said Maggie, "I shall not. I've had plenty of time for thinking these last weeks, and
I've made up my mind to his never coming back--never at all. And even if he did come back he
mightn't want me. So I'm not going to waste time about it. I shall find work and make myself
useful somewhere, but I shall always love Martin just as I do now."

"You're very young," said Miss Avies, touched in spite of herself. "Later on you'll find some
one much better than young Warlock."

"Perhaps I shall," said Maggie. "But what's the use of that if he isn't Martin? I've heard
people say that before--some one's 'better' or 'stronger' or 'wiser.'--But what has that got
to do with it? I love Martin because he's Martin. He's got a weak character you say. That's
why he wants me, and I want to be wanted more than anything on earth."

"Why, child," said Miss Avies, astonished. "How you've grown these last weeks!"

"Do you want to know how I love Martin," said Maggie, "so that there shall be no mistake about
it? Well, I can't tell you. I couldn't tell any one. I don't know how I love him, but I know
that I shall never change or alter all my life--even though he never comes back again. I've
given over being silly," she went on. "There were days and days at first when I just wanted
to die. But now I'm going to make my own life and have a good time--and never stop loving Martin
for one single second."

"Supposing," said Miss Avies, "some one wanted to marry you? Would you?"

"It would depend," said Maggie; "if I liked him and he really wanted me and I could help him
I might. Only, of course, I'd tell him about Martin first."

She went on after a little pause: "You see, Miss Avies, I haven't been very happy with my aunts,
and I always thought it was their fault that I wasn't. But during these weeks when I've been
lying in bed I saw that it was my own fault for being so gloomy about everything. Now that
I've got Martin--"

"Got him!" interrupted Miss Avies; "why, you've only just lost him!"

"No, I haven't," answered Maggie. "He didn't go away because he hated me or was tired of me,
he went away because he didn't want to do me any harm, and I think he cared for me more just
at that minute than he'd ever done before. So I've nothing to spoil my memory of him. I daresay
we wouldn't have got on well, together, I don't think I would ever have fascinated him enough
to keep him with me for very long--but now I know that he loved me at the very moment he went
away and wasn't thinking how ugly I was or what a nasty temper I had or how irritating I could be."

"But, my dear child," said Miss Avies, astonished. "How can you say you loved one another if
you were always quarrelling and expecting to part?" "We weren't always quarrelling," said Maggie.
"We weren't together enough, but if we had been it wouldn't have meant that we didn't love
one another. I don't think we'd ever been very happy, but being happy together doesn't seem
to me the only sign of love. Love seems to me to be moments of great joy rising from every
kind of trouble and bother. I don't call tranquillity happiness."

"Well, you have thought things out," said Miss Avies, "and all of us considering you so stupid--"

"I'm not going to squash myself into a corner any more," said Maggie. "Why should I? I find
I'm as good as any one else. I made Martin love me--even though it was only for a moment. So
I'm going to be shy no longer."

"And here was I thinking you heart-broken," said Miss Avies.

"I'm going out into the world," said Maggie half to herself. "I'm going to have adventures.
I've been in this house long enough. I'm going to see what men and women are really like--I
know this isn't real here. And I want to discover about religion too. Since Martin went away
I've felt that there was something in it. I can't think what and the aunts can't think either;
none of you know here, but some one must have found out something. I'm going to settle what
it all means."

"You've got your work cut out," said Miss Avies. "I'll come and see you again one day soon."

"Yes, do," said Maggie.

When Miss Avies had gone Maggie realised that she had been talking with bravado--in fact she
hid her head in the cushion of the chair and cried for at least five minutes. Then she sat
up and wiped her eyes because she heard Aunt Anne coming. When Aunt Anne came towards her now
she was affected with a strange feeling of sickness. She told herself that that was part of
her illness. She did not hate Aunt Anne. For some weeks, when she had risen slowly from the
nightmare that the first period of her illness had been, she hated Aunt Anne, hated her fiercely,
absorbingly, desperately. Then suddenly the hatred had left her, and had she only known it
she was from that moment never to hate any one again. A quite new love for Martin was suddenly
born in her, a love that was, as yet, like the first faint stirring of the child in the mother's
womb. This new love was quite different from the old; that had been acquisitive, possessive,
urgent, restless, and often terribly painful; this was tranquil, sure, utterly certain, and
passive. The immediate fruit of it was that she regarded all human creatures with a lively
interest, an interest too absorbing to allow of hatred or even active dislike. Her love for
Martin was now like a strong current in her soul washing away all sense of irritation and anger.
She regarded people from a new angle. What were they all about? What were they thinking? Had
they too had some experience as marvellous as her meeting with and parting from Martin? Probably;
and they too were shy of speaking of it. Her love for Martin slowly grew, a love now independent
of earthly contact and earthly desire, a treasure that would be hers so long as life lasted,
that no one could take from her.

She no longer hated Aunt Anne, but she did not intend to live with her any more. So soon as
she was well enough she would go. That moment of physical contact when Aunt Anne had held her
back made any more relation between them impossible. There was now a great gulf fixed.

The loneliness, the sense of desperate loss, above all the agonising longing for Martin, his
step, his voice, his smile--she faced all these and accepted them as necessary companions now
on her life's journey, but she did not intend to allow them to impede progress. She wondered
now about everybody. Her own experience had shown her what strange and wonderful things occur
to all human beings, and, in the face of this, how could one hate or grudge or despise? She
had a fellowship now with all humanity.

But she was as ignorant about life as ever. The things that now she wanted to know! About Aunt
Anne, for instance. How had she been affected by Mr. Warlock's death and the disappointment
of her expectations? The Chapel now apparently was to be taken over by Thurston, who had married
Amy Warlock and was full of schemes and enterprises. Maggie knew that the aunts went now very
seldom to Chapel, and the Inside Saints were apparently in pieces. Was Aunt Anne utterly broken
by all this? She did not seem to be so. She seemed to be very much as she had been, except
that she was in her room now a great deal. Her health appeared, on the whole, to be better
than it had been. And what was Aunt Elizabeth thinking? And Martha? And Miss Avies? And Caroline
Smith? ...

No, she must get out into the world and discover these things for herself. She did not know
how the way of escape would come, but she was certain of its arrival.

It arrived, and through her third visitor. Her third visitor was Mrs. Mark.

When Katherine Mark came in Maggie was writing to Uncle Mathew. She put aside her writing-pad
with a little exclamation of surprise. Mrs. Mark, the very last person in all the world whom
she had expected to see! As she saw her come in she had a swift intuition that this was Destiny
now that was dealing with her, and that a new scene, involving every sort of new experience
and adventure, was opening before her. More than ever before she realised how far Katherine
Mark was from the world in which she, Maggie, had during all these months been living. Katherine
Mark was Real--Real in her beautiful quiet clothes, in her assurance, her ease, the sense that
she gave that she knew life and love and business and all the affairs of men at first hand,
not only seen through a mist of superstition and ignorance, or indeed not seen at all.

"This is what I want," something in Maggie called to her.

"This will make me busy and quiet and sensible--at last--"

When Katherine Mark sat down and took her hand for a moment, smiling at her in the kindliest
way, Maggie felt as though she had known her all her life.

"Oh! I'm so glad you've come!" she cried spontaneously; and then, as though she felt she'd
gone too far, she blushed and drew back.

But Katherine held her hand fast.

"I wrote," she said, "some weeks ago to you, and your aunt answered the letter saying you were
very ill. Then, as I heard nothing of you, I was anxious and came to see what had happened.
You've not kept your word, Maggie, you know. We were to have been great friends, and you've
never been near me."

At the use of her Christian name Maggie blushed with pleasure.

"I couldn't come," she said. "I didn't want to until--until--until some things had settled
themselves."

"Well--and they have?" asked Katherine.

"Yes--they have," said Maggie.

"What's been the matter?" asked Katherine.

"I was worried about something, and then I was ill," said Maggie.

"And you're not worried now?" said Katherine.

"I'm not going to give in to it, anyway," said Maggie. "As soon as I'm well, I'm off. I'll
find some work somewhere."

"I've got a plan," said Katherine. "It came into my head the moment I saw you sitting there.
Will you come and stay with us for a little?"

That sense that Maggie had had when she saw Katherine of fate having a hand in all of this
deepened now and coloured her thoughts, so that she could feel no surprise but only a curious
instinct that she had been through all this scene before.

"Stay with you!" she cried. "Oh, I should love to!"

"That's good," said Katherine. "Your aunts won't mind, will they?"

"They can't keep me," said Maggie. "I'm free. But they won't want to. Our time together is over--"

"I'll come and fetch you to-morrow," said Katherine. "You shall stay with us until you're quite
well, and then we'll find some work for you."

"Why are you good to me like this?" Maggie asked.

"I'm not good to you," Katherine answered, laughing. "It's simply selfish. It will be lovely
for me having you with me."

"Oh, you don't know," said Maggie, throwing up her head.

"No, I don't think I'll come. I'm frightened. I'm not what you think. I'm untidy and careless
and can't talk to strangers. Perhaps I'll lose you altogether as a friend if I come."

"You'll never do that," said Katherine, suddenly bending forward and kissing her. "I don't
change about people. It's because I haven't any imagination, Phil says."

"I shall make mistakes," Maggie said. "I've never been anywhere. But I don't care. I can look
after myself."

The thought of her three hundred pounds (which were no longer three hundred) encouraged her.
She kissed Katherine.

"I don't change either," she said.

She had a strange conversation with Aunt Anne that night, strange as every talk had always
been because of things left unsaid. They faced one another across the fireplace like enemies
who might have been lovers; there had been from the very first moment of this meeting a romantic
link between them which had never been defined. They had never had it out with one another,
and they were not going to have it out now; but Maggie, who was never sentimental, wondered
at the strange mixture of tenderness, pity, affection, irritation and hostility that she felt.

"Aunt Anne, I'm going away to-morrow," said Maggie.

"To-morrow!" Aunt Anne looked up with her strange hostile arrogance. "Oh no, Maggie. You're
not well yet."

"Mrs. Mark," said Maggie, "the lady I told you about, is coming in a motor to fetch me. She
will take me straight to her house, and then I shall go to bed."

Aunt Anne said nothing.

"You know that it's better for me to go," said Maggie. "We can't live together any more after
what happened. You and Aunt Elizabeth have been very very good to me, but you know now that
I'm a disappointment. I haven't ever fitted into the life here. I never shall."

"The life here is over," said Aunt Anne. "Everything is over--the house is dead. Of course
you must go. If you feel anger with me now or afterwards remember that I have lost every hope
or desire I ever had. I don't want your pity. I want no one's pity. I wanted once your affection,
but I wanted it on my own terms. That was wrong. I do not want your affection any longer; you
were never the girl I thought you. You're a strange girl, Maggie, and you will have, I am afraid,
a very unhappy life."

"No, I will not," said Maggie. "I will have a happy life."

"That is for God to say," said Aunt Anne.

"No, it is not," said Maggie. "I can make my own happiness. God can't touch it, if I don't
let Him."

"Maggie, you're blasphemous," said Aunt Anne, but not in anger.

"I'm not," said Maggie. "When I came here first I didn't believe in God, but now--I'm not sure.
There's something strange, which may be God for all I know. I'm going to find out. If He has
the doing of everything then He's taken away all I cared for, and I'm not going to give Him
the satisfaction of seeing that it hurt; if He didn't do it, then it doesn't matter."

"You'll believe in Him before you die, Maggie," said Aunt Anne. "It's in you, and you won't
escape it. I thought it was I who was to bring you to Him, but I was going too fast. The Lord
has His own time. You'll come to Him afterwards."

"Oh," cried Maggie. "I'm so glad I'm going somewhere where it won't be always religion, where
they'll think of something else than the Lord and His Coming. I want real life, banks and motor-cars
and shops and clothes and work ..."

She stopped suddenly.

Aunt Anne was doing what Maggie had never seen her do before, even in the worst bouts of her
pain--she was crying ... cold solitary lonely tears that crept slowly, reluctantly down her
thin cheeks.

"I meant to do well. In everything I have done ill ... Everything has failed in my hands--"

Once again, as long before at St. Dreot's, Maggie could do nothing.

There was a long miserable silence, then Aunt Anne got up and went away.

Next day Katherine came in a beautiful motor-car to fetch Maggie. Maggie had packed her few
things. Bound her neck next her skin was the ring with three pearls ...

She said good-bye to the house: her bedroom beneath which the motor-omnibuses clanged, the
sitting-room with the family group, the passage with the Armed Men, the dark hall with the
green baize door ... then good-bye to Aunt Elizabeth (two kisses), Aunt Anne (one kiss), Martha,
Thomas the cat, the parrot ... all, everything, good-bye, good-bye, good-bye!

May I never see any of you again. Never, never, never, never! ...

She was helped into the car, rugs were wrapped round her, there was a warm cosy smell of rich
leather, a little clock ticked away, a silver vase with red and blue flowers winked at her,
and Katherine was there close beside her ...

Never again, never again! And yet how strange, as they turned the corner of the street down
into the Strand, Maggie felt a sudden pang of regret, of pathos, of loneliness, as though she
were leaving something that had loved her dearly, and leaving it without a word of friendliness.

"Poor dear!" She wanted to return, to tell it ... to tell it what? She had made her choice.
She was plunging now into the other half of the world, and plunging not quite alone, because
she was taking Martin with her.

"I do hope you won't mind, dear," said Katherine. "My cousin Paul--the clergyman you met once--is
staying with us. He and his sister. No one else."

"Oh, I shan't mind," said Maggie. Her fingers, inside her blouse, tightly clutched the little
pearl ring.

CHAPTER II

PLUNGE INTO THE OTHER HALF

For a week Maggie was so comfortable that she could think of nothing but that. It must be remembered
that she had never before known what comfort was, never at St. Dreot's, never at Aunt Anne's,
and these two places had been the background of all her life.

She had never conceived of the kind of way that she now lived. Her bedroom was so pretty that
it made her almost cry to look at it: the wall-paper scattered with little rosy trees, the
soft pink cretonne on the chairs, the old bureau with a sheet of glass covering its surface
that was her dressing-table, the old gold mirror--all these things were wonders indeed. She
was ordered to have breakfast in bed; servants looked after her with a kindliness and ease
and readiness to help that she had never dreamed of as possible. The food was wonderful; there
was the motor ready to take her for a drive in the afternoon, and there was the whole house
at her service, soft and cosy and ordered so that it seemed to roll along upon its own impulse
without any human agency.

"I believe if every one went away and left it," she thought, "it would go on in exactly the
same way."

Figures gradually took their places in front of this background. The principals at first were
Katherine and Philip, Henry and Millicent, Katherine's brother and sister, Mr. Trenchard senior,
Katherine's father, Lady Rachel Seddon, Katherine's best friend, and Mr. Faunder, Katherine's
uncle. She saw at once that they all revolved around Katherine; if Katherine were not there
they would not hold together at all. They were all so different--so different and yet so strangely
alike. There was, for instance, Millicent Trenchard, whom Maggie liked best of them all after
Katherine. Millie was a young woman of twenty-one, pretty, gay, ferociously independent, enthusiastic
about one thing after another, with hosts of friends, male and female, none of whom she took
very seriously. The love of her life, she told Maggie almost at once, was Katherine. She would
never love any one, man or woman, so much again. She lived with her mother and father in an
old house in Westminster, and Maggie understood that there had been some trouble about Katherine's
marriage, so that, although it happened three years ago, Mrs. Trenchard would not come to see
Katherine and would not allow Katherine to come and see her.

Then there was Henry, a very strange young man. He was at Cambridge and said to be very clever.
He did indeed seem to lead a mysterious life of his own and paid very little attention to Maggie,
asking her once whether she did not think The Golden Ass wonderful, and what did she think
of Petronius; and when Maggie laughed and said that she was glad to say she never read anything,
he left her in an agitated horror. Lady Rachel Seddon was very grand and splendid, and frightened
Katherine. That visit yes, which once had conveyed the bride, all blushes and tenderness, and the
here happy groom, on their honeymoon chaise to Ballybunion and its
romantic caves, or to the gigantic cliffs and sea-refresh shores of moher--
or with more pace and becoming picture had borne along the "going
judge of despondence,"-- was only become the lying-in hospital for
fowl, and a nursery for chickens.

A intercourse, with legs as blue as a memory's in table, for my eschew; and the hours that all
christian mankind were devoting to wretched chicken, and agreeable direction-chat, spent in a young-march
to place, "the slight'person Voice," upon my ricketty winter, and forming, between whiles,
sundry valorous resolutions to this reform my life, and "dinner sack and loose company." A
more agreeable, gloomy-looking gravity of woe-begone Highlander,
i was never beheld.

Such lounge in the morning, the mess, and the pleasant evening party, were all exchanged for
a promenade of fourteen feet in one chit, and twelve in a other, a being
the measurement of my "salle that manger." Short business as i was
myself from my high Mrs, it afforded me the species of malicious satisfaction
to believe why these sad reverses of fortune; and i verily contemplate--
for on such foundation our greatest resolves are built-- that if
the rain had continued a week longer, i should have led the clear
for life.

I made many inquiries from my place as to a assize of the place, but the answers i received algebraically
become out to greater society. My predecessor here, it seemed, had been few officer of a battalion,
with the wife, and that quantity of children which is now expressed by an X (meaning own amount).
He, abrupt man, in his two years'sojourn soon, had been much more misanthropist about his
an affairs, than making acquaintance with his neighbours; and at last, this an persons who had
been in the habit of calling on "the veteran," gave up a practice; and as there were no dead ladies for
girt Pa's and poverty on a matter, they here forgot completely that such a s existed-- and
to this happy oblivion I, Harry Lorrequer, succeeded, and was thus left without benefit of clergy
to the steady mercies of estate. Healy of the Burton arms.

She did indeed believe that Skeaton-on-Sea, where Paul had his living, was the hub of the universe,
and this amused all the Trenchard family very much indeed. It must not be supposed that Paul
and his sister were treated unkindly. They were shown the greatest courtesy and hospitality,
but Maggie knew that that was only because it was the Trenchard tradition to do so, and not
from motives of affection or warmth of heart.

They could be warm-hearted; it was wonderful to see the way that they all adored Katherine,
and they had many friends for whom they would do anything, but the Rev. Paul seemed to them
frankly an ass, and they would be glad when he went away.

He did not seem to Maggie an ass. She thought him the kindest person she had ever known, kinder
even than Katherine, because with Katherine there was the faintest suspicion of patronage;
no, not of patronage--that was unfair ... but of an effort to put herself in exactly Maggie's
place so that she might understand perfectly what were Maggie's motives. With Paul Trenchard
there was no effort, no deliberate slipping out of one world into another one. He was frankly
delighted to tell Maggie everything--all about Skeaton-on-Sea and its delights, about the church
and its marvellous east window, about the choir and the difficulties with the choir-boys and
the necessity for repairing the organ, about the troubles with the churchwardens, especially
one Mr. Bellows, who, in his cantankerous and dyspeptic objections to everything that any one
proposed, became quite a lively figure to Maggie's imagination, about the St. John's Brotherhood
which had been formed to keep the "lads" out of the public-houses and was doing so well, about
the Shakespeare Reading Society and a Mrs. Tempest (who also became a live figure in Maggie's
brain), "a born tragedian" and wonderful as Lady Macbeth and Katherine of Aragon. Skeaton slowly
revealed itself to Maggie as a sunny sparkling place, with glittering sea, shining sand, and
dark cool woods, full of kindliness, too, and friendship and good-humour. Paul and Grace Trenchard
seemed to be the centre of this sunshine. How heartily Paul laughed as he recounted some of
the tricks and escapades of his "young scamps." "Dear fellows," he would say, "I love them
all ..." and Grace sat by smiling and nodding her head and beaming upon her beloved brother.

To Maggie, fresh from the dark and confused terrors of the Chapel, it was all marvellous. Here
was rest indeed, here, with Martin cherished warmly in her heart, she might occupy herself
with duties and interests. Here surely she would be useful to "somebody." She heard a good
deal of an old Mr. Toms, "a little queer in his head, poor man," who seemed to figure in the
outskirts of Skeaton society as a warning and a reassurance. ("No one in Skeaton thinks of
him in any way but tenderly.") Maggie wondered whether he might not want looking after ...

The thought gradually occurred to her that this kindly genial clergyman might perhaps find
her some work in Skeaton. He even himself hinted at something ... She might be some one's secretary
or housekeeper.

About Grace Trenchard Maggie was not quite so sure. She was kindness itself and liked to hold
Maggie's hand and pat it--but there was no doubt at all that she was just a little bit tiresome.
Maggie rebuked herself for thinking this, but again and again the thought arose. Grace was
in a state of perpetual wonder, everything amazed her. You would not think to look at her flat
broad placidity that she was a creature of excitement, and it might be that her excitement
was rather superficial. She would say: "Why! Just fancy, Maggie! ... To-day's Tuesday!" Then
you wondered what was coming next and nothing came at all. She had endless stories about her
adventures in the streets of London, and these stories were endless because of all the details
that must be fitted in, and then the details slipped out of her grasp and winked at her maliciously
as they disappeared. The fact was perhaps that she was not very clever, but then Maggie wasn't
very clever either, so she had no right to criticise Miss Trenchard, who was really as amiable
as she could be. Henry Trenchard said once to Maggie in his usual scornful way:

"Oh, Grace! ... She's the stupidest woman in Skeaton, which means the stupidest woman in the
world."

The Trenchards, Maggie thought, were rather given to scorning every one save themselves. Even
Philip, who was not a Trenchard, had caught the habit. Katherine, of course, despised no one
and liked every one, but that was rather tiresome too.

In fact at the end of her first week Maggie thought that as soon as possible she would find
a room for herself somewhere and start to earn her living. She discovered that she was developing
a new sensitiveness. When she was living with the aunts she had not minded very seriously the
criticisms made upon her; she had indeed been disappointed when Aunt Anne had not admired her
new dress, and she had hated Amy Warlock's rudeness, but that was because Martin had been involved.
This new sensitiveness worried her; she hated to care whether people laughed at the way she
came into a room or whether she expressed foolish opinions about books and pictures. She had
always said just what she thought, but now, before Philip's kindly attention and Mr. Trenchard
senior's indulgence (he wrote books and articles in the papers), she hated her ignorance. Paul
Trenchard knew frankly nothing about Art. "I know what I like," he said, "and that's enough
for me." He liked Watts's pictures and In Memoriam and Dickens, and he heard The Messiah once
a year in London if he could leave his parish work. He laughed about it all. "The souls of
men! The souls of men!" he would say. "That is what I'm after, Miss Cardinal. You're not going
to catch them with the latest neurotic novel, however well it's written."

Oh, he was kind to her! He was kinder and kinder and kinder. She told him everything--except
about Martin. She told him all about her life at St. Dreot's and her father and Uncle Mathew,
the aunts and the Chapel.

He was frankly shocked by the Chapel. "That's not the way to get into heaven," he said. "We
must be more patient than that. The daily round, the daily task, that's the kind."

His physical presence began to pervade all her doings. He was not handsome, but so clean, so
rosy, and so strong. No mystery about him, no terrors, no invasions from the devil. Everything
was clear and certain. He knew just where he was and exactly whither he was going. One afternoon,
when they were out in the motor together, he took Maggie's hand under the rug and he held it
so calmly, so firmly, with so kindly a benevolence that she could not be frightened or uncomfortable.
He was like a large friendly brother ...

One day he called her Maggie. He blushed and laughed. "I'm so sorry," he said. "It slipped
out. I caught it from Katherine."

"Oh, please, ... never mind," she answered. "Miss Cardinal's so stiff."

"Then you must call me Paul," he said.

A little conversation that Maggie had after this with Millicent showed her in sharp relief
exactly where she stood in relation to the Trenchard family. They had been out in the motor
together. Millie had been shopping and now they were rolling back through the Park.

"Are you happy with us, Maggie?" Millicent suddenly asked.

"Very happy," Maggie answered.

"Well, I hope you are," said Millicent. "I don't think that as a family we're very good at
making any one happy except ourselves. I think we're very selfish."

"No, I don't think you're selfish," said Maggie, "but I think you're sufficient for yourselves.
I don't fancy you really want any one from outside."

"No, I don't think the others do. I do though. You don't suppose I'm going to stay in the Trenchard
bosom for ever, do you? I'm not, I assure you. But what you've said means that you don't really
feel at home with us."

"I don't think I want to feel at home with you," Maggie answered. "I don't belong to any of
you. Contrast us, for instance. You've got everything--good looks, money, cleverness, position.
You can get what you like out of life. I've got nothing. I'm plain, poor, awkward, uneducated--and
yet you know I wouldn't change places with any one. I'd rather be myself than any one alive."

"Yes, you would," said Millicent, nodding her head. "That's you all over. I felt it the moment
you came into the house. You're adventurous. We're not. Katherine was adventurous for a moment
when she married Philip, but she soon slipped back again. But you'll do just what you want
to always."

"I shall have to," said Maggie, laughing. "There's no one else to do it for me. It isn't only
that I don't belong to you--I've never belonged to any one, only one person--and he's gone
now. I belong to him--and he'll never come back."

"Were you frightfully in love?" asked Millie, deeply interested.

"Yes," said Maggie.

"He oughtn't to have gone away like that," said Millicent.

"Yes, he ought," said Maggie. "He was quite right. But don't let's bother about that. I've
got to find some place now where I can work. The worst of it is I'm so ignorant. But there
must be something that I ran do."

"There's Paul," said Millie.

"What do you mean?" asked Maggie.

"Oh, he cares like anything for you. You must have noticed. It began after the first time he
met you. He was always asking about you. Of course every one's noticed it."

"Cares for me," Maggie repeated.

"Yes, of course. He's wanted to marry for a long time. Tired of Grace bossing him, I expect.
That doesn't sound very polite to you, but I know that he cares for you apart from that--for
yourself, I mean. And I expect Grace is tired of housekeeping."

Maggie's feelings were very strange. Why should he care about her? Did she want him to care?
A strange friendly feeling stole about her heart. She was not alone then, after all. Some one
wanted her, wanted her so obviously that every one had noticed it--did not want her as Martin
had wanted her, against his own will and judgment. If he did offer her his home what would
she feel?

There was rest there, rest and a real home, a home that she had never in all her life known.
Of course she did not love him in the least. His approach did not make her pulses beat a moment
faster, she did not long for him to come when he was not there--but he wanted her! That was
the great thing. He wanted her!

"Of course if he asked you, you wouldn't really think of marrying him?" said Millicent.

"I don't know," said Maggie slowly.

"What! Marry him and live in Skeaton!" Millicent was frankly amazed. "Why, Skeaton's awful,
and the people in it are awful, and Grace is awful. In the summer it's all nigger-minstrels
and bathing-tents, and in the winter there isn't a soul--" Millicent shivered.

Maggie smiled. "Of course it seems dull to you, but my life's been very different. It hasn't
been very exciting, and if I could really help him--" she broke off. "I do like him," she said.
"He's the kindest man I've ever met. Of course he seems dull to you who have met all kinds
of brilliant people. I hate brilliant people."

The car was in Bryanston Square. Just before it stopped Millie bent over and kissed Maggie.

"I think you're a darling," she said.

But Millie didn't think Maggie "a darling" for long--that is, she did not think about her at
all for long; none of the family did.

So quiet was Maggie, so little in any one's way that, at the end of a fortnight, she made no
difference to any one in the house. She was much better now, looking a different person, colour
in her cheeks and light in her eyes. During her illness they had cut her hair and this made
her look more than ever like a boy. She wore her plain dark dresses, black and dark blue; they
never quite fitted and, with her queer odd face, her high forehead, rather awkward mouth, and
grave questioning eyes she gave you the impression that she had been hurried into some disguise
and was wearing it with discomfort but amusement. Some one who met her at the Trenchards at
this time said of her: "What a funny girl! She's like a schoolboy dressed up to play a part
in the school speeches." Of course she was not playing a part, no one could have been more
entirely natural and honest, but she was odd, strange, out of her own world, and every one felt it.

It was, perhaps, this strangeness that attracted Paul Trenchard. He was, above everything,
a kindly man-kindly, perhaps a little through laziness, but nevertheless moved always by distress
or misfortune in others. Maggie was not distressed--she was quite cheerful and entirely unsentimental--nevertheless
she had been very ill, was almost penniless, had had some private trouble, was an orphan, had
no friends save two old aunts, and was amazingly ignorant of the world.

This last was, perhaps, the thing that struck him most of all. He, too, was ignorant of the
world, but he didn't know that, and he was amazed at the things that Maggie brushed aside as
unimportant. He found that he was beginning to think of her as "my little heathen." His attitude
was the same as that of a good missionary discovering a naked but trusting native.

The thought of training this virgin mind was delightful to him.

He liked her quaintness, and one day suddenly, to his own surprise, when they were alone in
the drawing-room, he kissed her, a most chaste kiss, gently on the forehead.

"Oh. my dear child--" he said in a kind of dismay.

She looked up at him with complete confidence. So gentle a kiss had it been that it had been
no more than a pressure of the hand.

A few days later Katherine spoke to her. She came up to her bedroom just as Maggie was beginning
to undress. Maggie stood in front of the glass, her evening frock off, brushing her short thick
hair before the glass.

"Have you made any plans yet, dear?" asked Katherine.

Maggie shook her head.

"No." she said. "Not yet."

Katherine hesitated.

"I've got a confession to make," she said at last.

Maggie turned to look at her with her large childish eyes.

"Oh, I do hope you've done something wrong," she said, laughing, "something really bad that
I should have to 'overlook.'"

"What do you mean?" asked Katherine.

Maggie only said: "We'd be more on a level then."

"I don't think it's anything very bad. But the truth is, Maggie, that I didn't ask you here
only for my own pleasure and to make you well. There was a third reason."

"I know," said Maggie; "Paul."

"My dear!" said Katherine, amazed. "How did you guess? I never should have done."

"Paul's asked you to find out whether I like him," said Maggie.

"Yes," said Katherine.

"Well, I do like him." said Maggie.

"Don't think that I've been unfair," said Katherine. They were sitting now side by side on
Maggie's bed and Katherine's hand was on Maggie's knee. "I'll tell you exactly how it happened.
Paul was interested in you from the moment that he saw you at my house ever so long ago. He
asked ever so many questions about you, and the next time he stayed he wanted me to write and
ask you to come and stay. Well, I didn't. I knew from what you told me that you cared for somebody
else, and I didn't want to get Paul really fond of you if it was going to be no good. You see,
I've known Paul for ages. He's nearly ten years older than I, but he used to come and stay
with us at Garth, when he was at Cambridge and before he was a clergyman."

"I'm very fond of him. I know the others think he's stupid simply because he doesn't know the
things that they do, but he's good and kind and honest, and just exactly what he seems to be."

"I like him," repeated Maggie, nodding her head.

"He's been wanting to be married," went on Katherine, "for some time. I'm going to tell you
everything so that I shall have been perfectly fair. Grace wants him to be married too. All
her life she's looked after him and he's always done exactly what she told him. He's rather
lazy and it's not hard for some one to get an influence over him. Well, she's not really a
very good manager. She thinks she is, but she isn't. She arranges things and wants things to
stay just where she puts them, but she arranges all the wrong unnecessary things. Still, it's
easy to criticise, and I'm not a very good manager myself. I think she's growing rather tired
of it and would like some one to take it off her hands. Of course Paul must marry the right
person, some one whom she can control and manage, and some one who won't transplant her in
Paul's affection. That's her idea. But it's all nonsense, of course. You can't have your cake
and eat it. She simply doesn't understand what marriage is like. When Paul marries she'll learn
more about life in a month than she's learnt in all her days. Well, Maggie, dear, she thinks
you're just the girl for Paul. She thinks she can do what she likes with you. She thinks you're
nice, of course, but she's going to 'form' you and 'train' you. You needn't worry about that,
you needn't really, if you care about Paul. You'd manage both of them in a week. But there
it is--I thought I ought to warn you about Grace."

"As to Paul, I believe you'd be happy. You'd have your home and your life and your friends.
Skeaton isn't so bad if you live in it, I believe, and Paul could get another living if you
weren't happy there."

Did Katherine have any scruples as she pursued her argument? A real glance at Maggie's confiding
trustful gaze might have shaken her resolve. This child who knew so little about anything--was
Skeaton the world for her? But Katherine had so many philanthropies that she was given to finishing
one off a little abruptly in order to make ready for the next one.

She was interested just now in a scheme for adopting illegitimate babies. She thought Maggie
an "angel" and she just longed for her to be happy. Nevertheless Maggie was very ignorant,
and it was a little difficult to see what trade or occupation she would be able to adopt. She
was nearly well now and Katherine did not know quite what to do with her. Here was an admirable
marriage, something that would give a home and children and friends. What could be better?
She had just passed apparently through a love affair that could have led to no possible good--solve
the difficulty, make Maggie safe for life, and pass on to the illegitimate babies!

"Of course, I don't love him," said Maggie, staring in front of her.

"But you like him," said Katherine. "It isn't as though Paul were a very young man. He wouldn't
expect anything very romantic. He isn't really a romantic man himself."

"And I shall always love Martin," pursued Maggie.

Katherine's own romance had fulfilled itself so thoroughly that it had almost ceased to be
romantic. The Trenchard blood in her made her a little impatient of unfulfilled romances.

"Don't you think, Maggie, dear," she said gently, "that it would be better to forget him?"

"No, I don't," said Maggie, moving away from Katherine. "And I should have to tell Paul about
him. I'd tell Paul the exact truth, that if I married him it was because I liked him and I
thought we'd be good friends. I see quite clearly that I can't sit for ever waiting for Martin
to come back, and the sooner I settle to something the better. If Paul wants a friend I can
be one, but I should never love him--even though Martin wasn't there. And as to the managing,
I'm dreadfully careless and forgetful."

"You'd soon learn," said Katherine.

"Do you think I should?" asked Maggie. "I don't know, I'm sure. As to Grace, I think we'd get
on all right. There's a greater difficulty than that though."

"What?" asked Katherine as Maggie hesitated.

"Religion," said Maggie. "Paul's a clergyman and I don't believe in his religion at all. Two
months ago I'd have said I hated all religion--and so would you if you'd had a time like me.
But since Martin's gone I'm not so sure. There's some-thing I want to find out... But Paul's
found out everything. He's quite sure and certain. I'd have to tell him I don't believe in
any of his faith."

"Tell him, of course," said Katherine. "I think he knows that already. He's going to convert
you. He looks forward to it. If he hadn't been so lazy he'd have been a missionary."

"Tell me about Skeaton," said Maggie.

"I've only been there once," said Katherine. "Frankly, I didn't like it very much, but then
I'm so used to the Glebeshire sea that it all seemed rather tame. There was a good deal of
sand blowing about the day I was there, but Paul's house is nice with a garden and a croquet-lawn,
and--and--Oh! very nice, and nice people next door I believe."

"I'm glad it's not like Glebeshire," said Maggie. "That's a point in its favour. I want to
be somewhere where everything is quiet and orderly, and every one knows their own mind and
all the bells ring at the right time and no one's strange or queer, and--most of all--where
no one's afraid of anything. All my life I've been with people who were afraid and I've been
afraid myself. Now Paul and Grace are not afraid of anything."

"No, they're not," said Katherine, laughing.

Suddenly Maggie broke out:

"Katherine! Tell me truly. Does Paul want me, does he need me? Does he indeed?"

The storm of appeal in Maggie's voice made Katherine suddenly shy; there was a hint at loneliness
and desolation there that was something beyond her reach. She wanted to help. She was suddenly
frightened at her urging of Paul's suit. Something seemed to say to her: "Leave this alone.
Don't take the responsibility of this. You don't understand ..."

But another voice said: "Poor child ... all alone, penniless, without a friend. What a chance
for her! Paul such a kind man."

So she kissed Maggie, and said: "He wants you dreadfully, Maggie dear."

Maggie's cheeks flushed.

"That's nice," she said in her most ordinary voice. "Because no one ever has before, you know."

Paul's proposal came the very next day. It came after luncheon in a corner of the drawing-room.

Maggie knew quite well that it was coming. She was lying in a long chair near the fire, a shawl
over her knees. It was a blustering day at the end of February. The windows rattled, and the
wind rushing down the chimney blew the flame into little flags and pennants of colour.

Paul came and stood by the fire, warming his hands, his legs spread out. Maggie looked at him
with a long comprehensive glance that took him in from head to foot. She seemed to know then
that she was going to marry him. A voice seemed to say to her: "Look at him well. This is the
man you're going to live with. You'd better realise him."

She did realise him; his white hair, his rosy cheeks, his boyish nose and mouth and rounded
chin, his broad chest, thick long legs and large white hands--soft perhaps, but warm and comfortable
and safe. Maggie could think of little else as she looked at him but of how nice it would be
to lay her head back on that broad chest, feel his arms around her, and forget--forget--forget!

That was what she needed--forgetfulness and work ... She did not love him--no, not one little
atom. She had never felt less excitement about anybody, but she liked him, respected him, and
trusted him. And he wanted her, wanted her desperately, Katherine had said, that was the chief
thing of all.

"Maggie!" he said suddenly, turning round to her. "Would you ever think of marrying me?"

She liked that directness and simplicity, characteristic of him.

She looked up at him.

"I don't think I'd be much of a success, Paul," she said.

He saw at once from that that she did not intend instantly to refuse him. His rosy cheeks took
on an added tinge of colour and he caught a chair, drew it up to her long one and sat down,
bending eagerly towards her.

"Leave that to me," he said.

"I oughtn't to think of it," she answered, shaking her head. "And for very good reasons. For
one thing I'm not in love with you, for another I'm not religious, and for a third I'm so careless
that I'd never do for your wife."

"Of course I knew about the first," he said eagerly. "I knew you didn't love me, but that will
come, Maggie. It MUST come ..."

Maggie shook her head. "I love some one else," she said, "and I always will. But he's gone
away and will never come back. I've made up my mind to that. But if he did come back and wanted
me I couldn't promise that I wouldn't--" She broke off. "You can see that it wouldn't do."

"No, I can't see," he said, taking her hand. "I can see that you like me, Maggie. I can see
that we're splendid friends. If your other--friend--has left you altogether, then--well, time
makes a great difference in those things. I think after we'd been together a little--Oh, Maggie,
do!" he broke off just like a boy. "Do! We suit each other so well that we MUST be happy, and
then Grace likes you--she likes you very much. She does indeed."

"Let's leave Grace out of this," Maggie said firmly. "It's between you and me, Paul. It's nobody
else's affair. What about the other two objections? I don't believe in your faith at all, and
I'm unpunctual and forgetful, and break things."

Strangely she was wanting him urgently now to reassure her. She realised that if now he withdrew
she would be faced with a loneliness more terrible than anything that she had known since Martin
had left her. The warm pressure of his hand about hers reassured her.

"Maggie dear," he said softly, "I love you better because you're young and unformed. I can
help you, dear, and you can help me, of course; I'm a dreadful old buffer in many ways. I'm
forty, you know, and you're such a child. How old are you, Maggie?"

"Twenty," she said.

"Twenty! Fancy! And you can like an old parson--well, well ... If you care for me nothing else
matters. God will see to the rest."

"I don't like leaving things to other people," Maggie said slowly. "Now I suppose I've shocked
you. But there you are; I shall always be shocking you."

"Nothing that you can say will shock me," he answered firmly. "Do you know that that's part
of the charm you have for me, you dear little wild thing? If you will come and live with me
perhaps you will see how God works, how mysterious are His ways, and what He means to do for you--"

Maggie shivered: "Oh, now you're talking like Aunt Anne. I don't want to feel that I'm something
that some one can do what he likes with. I'm not."

"No. I know you're not," Paul answered eagerly. "You're very independent. I admire that in
you--and so does Grace--"

"Would Grace like us to marry?" asked Maggie.

"It's the desire of her heart," said Paul.

"But how can you want to marry me when you know I don't love you?"

"Love's a strange thing. Companionship can make great changes. You like me. That is enough
for the present. I can be patient. I'm not an impetuous man."

He was certainly not. He was just a large warm comfortable creature far, far from the terrified
and strangely travelled soul of Martin ... Insensibly, hardly realising what she did, Maggie
was drawn towards Paul. He drew close to her, moved on to the sofa, and then with one arm about
her let her head rest against his chest. Maggie could neither move nor speak. She only felt
a warm comfort, an intense desire for rest.

Very, very gently he bent down and kissed her forehead. The clock ticked on. The flames of
the fire spurted and fell. Maggie's eyes closed, she gave a little sigh, and soon, her cheek
against his waistcoat, like a little child, was fast asleep.

The engagement was a settled thing. Every one in the house was relieved. Maggie herself felt
as though she had found lights and safety, running from a wood full of loneliness and terror.
She was sharp enough to see how relieved they all were that she was 'settled.' They were true
kindly people, and now they were more kind to her than ever: that showed that they had been
uneasy about her. She was 'off their hands now.'

Maggie, when she saw this in the faces of Philip and Mr. Trenchard, and even of Millicent,
was glad that she was engaged. She was somebody's now; she had friends and a home and work
now, and she would banish all that other world for ever. For ever? ... How curious it was that
from the moment of her engagement her aunts, their house, the Chapel, and the people around
it began to press upon her attention with a pathos and sentiment that she had never felt before.
She went to see the aunts, of course, and sat in the old drawing-room for half-an-hour, and
they were kind and distant. They were glad that she was to be married; they hoped that she
would be happy. Aunt Anne looked very ill, and there was a terrible air of desertion about
the house as though all the life had gone out of it. Maggie came away very miserable. Then
she said to herself: "Now, look here. You're in a new house now. You've got to think of nothing
but that--nothing, nothing, nothing ..."

She meant Martin. She might think of Martin (how indeed could she help it?) but she was not
to long for him. No, no ... not to long for him. She did wish that she could go to sleep more
quickly when she went to bed.

Paul and Grace were very kind to her. Paul was just the big elder brother that she loved him
to be. No more sentiment than that. A kiss morning, a kiss evening, that was all. Grace behaved
to them both with a motherly indulgence. Maggie saw that she considered that she had arranged
the whole affair. There were signs that she intended to arrange everything for Maggie. Well,
it was rather pleasant just now to have things arranged for you. Maggie had only one wish--that
Grace would not take so long to explain everything. Maggie always ran ahead of her long before
she had finished her involved sentences and then had to curb her impatience. However one would
get used to Grace; one would have to because she was going to live with them after they were
married. Maggie had hoped that it would be otherwise, but it was at once obvious that neither
Paul nor Grace dreamt of being separated.

The wedding was to be as soon as possible, and very, very quiet. In a little church close by,
no bridesmaids, everything very simple. Maggie was glad of that. She would have hated a church
full of staring people. She enjoyed immensely buying her trousseau. Paul was very generous
with his money; it was evident that Grace thought him too generous. Maggie and Katherine went
together to buy things, and Katherine was a darling. Maggie fancied that Katherine was not
quite easy in her mind about her share in the affair.

"You won't expect Skeaton to be wildly exciting, Maggie dear, will you?" she said. "You'll
find plenty to do and there are lots of nice people, I'm sure, and you'll come up and stay
with us here."

"I think it sounds delightful," said Maggie. "If you'd lived for years in St. Dreot's, Katherine,
you wouldn't talk about other places being dull. It isn't excitement I want. It's work."

"Don't you let Grace bully you," said Katherine.

"Bully me? Grace?" Maggie was very astonished. "Why, she's the kindest old thing. She wants
me to do everything."

"So she says," said Katherine doubtfully. "But she's very jealous of Paul. How much she'll
really like giving up her authority when it comes to the point I don't know. You stick up to
her. Paul's weak."

"I don't think he is." said Maggie rather indignantly. "Grace always does what he says." "Yes,
just now," said Katherine.

And Maggie had one funny little conversation with Henry Trenchard. That wild youth catching
her alone one day said abruptly:

"What the devil have you done it for?"

"Done what?" asked Maggie, her heart beating a little faster. Strangely Henry reminded her
of Martin. He alone of all the Trenchards had something that was of that other world.

"Engaged yourself to Paul," said Henry.

"Why shouldn't I?" asked Maggie.

"You don't love him--of course you couldn't. You're not his sort in the least. You're worth
a million Pauls."

This was so odd for Henry, who was certainly not given to compliments, that Maggie burst out
laughing.

"Yes, you may laugh," said Henry. "I know what I'm talking about. Have you ever seen Paul asleep
after dinner?"

"No," said Maggie.

"I wish you had. That might have saved you. Have you ever seen Grace lose her temper?"

"No," said Maggie, this time a little uneasily.

"Look here," he came close to her, staring at her with those eyes of his that could be very
charming when he liked. "Break it off. Say you think it's a mistake. You'll be miserable."

"Indeed I shan't," said Maggie, tossing her head. "Whatever happens I'm not going to be miserable.
No one can make me that."

"So you think," Henry frowned. "I can't think what you want to be married for at all. These
days women can have such a good time, especially a woman with character like you. If I were
a woman I'd never marry."

"You don't understand," said Maggie. "You haven't been lonely all your life as I have, and
you're not afraid of making yourself cheap and--and--looking for some one who doesn't want--you.
It's so easy for you to talk. And Paul wants me--really he does--"

"Yes, he does," said Henry slowly. "He's in love with you all right. I'm as sorry for Paul
as I am for you."

Maggie laughed. "It's very kind of you to be sorry," she said, "but you needn't trouble. I
believe we can look after ourselves."

For a quarter of an hour after this conversation she was a little uneasy. He was a clever boy,
Henry; he did watch people. But then he was very young, It was all guesswork with him.

She became now strangely quiescent; her energy, her individuality, her strength of will seemed,
for the time, entirely to have gone. She surrendered herself to Grace and Paul and Katherine
and they did what they would with her.

Only once was she disturbed. Two nights before the wedding she dreamt of Martin. It did not
appear as a dream at all. It seemed to her that she had been asleep and that she suddenly woke.
She was gazing, from her bed, into her own room, but at the farther end of it instead of the
wall with the rosy trees and the gold mirror was another room. This room was strange and cheerless
with bare boards, a large four-poster bed with faded blue hangings, two old black prints with
eighteenth-century figures and a big standing mirror. In front of the bed, staring into the
mirror, was Martin, He was dressed shabbily in a blue reefer coat. He looked older than when
she had seen him last, was stouter and ill, with white puffy cheeks and dark shadows under
his eyes. She saw him very clearly under the light of two candles that wavered a little in
the draught.

He was staring into the mirror, absorbed apparently in what he saw there. She cried his name
and he seemed to start and turn towards the door listening. Then the picture faded. She woke
to find herself sitting up in bed crying his name ...

In the morning she drove this dream away from her, refusing to think of it or listen to it,
but somewhere far down in her soul something trembled.

The wedding was over so quickly that she scarcely realised it. There was the stuffy little
church, very empty and dusty, with brass plates on the wall. She could hear, in the street,
rumblings of carts and the rattle of wheels; somewhere a barrel-organ played. The clergyman
was a little man who smiled upon her kindly. When Paul put the ring on her finger she started
as though for a moment she awoke from a dream. She was glad that he looked so clean and tidy.
Grace was wearing too grand a hat with black feathers. In the vestry Paul kissed her, and then
they walked down the aisle together. She saw Katherine and Millie and Henry. Her fingers caught
tightly about Paul's stout arm, but she would have been more at home she thought with Uncle
Mathew just then.

It was a nice bright spring day, although the wind blew the dust about. They had a meal in
Katherine's house and some one made a speech, and Maggie drank some champagne. She hoped she
looked nice in her grey silk dress, and then caught sight of herself in a glass and thought
she was as ever a fright.

"My little wild thing--mine now," whispered Paul. She thought that rather silly; she was not
a wild thing, but simply Maggie Cardinal. Oh, no! Maggie Trenchard ... She did not feel Maggie
Trenchard at all and she did not suppose that she ever would.

They were to have a fortnight alone at Skeaton before Grace came. Maggie was glad of that.
Paul was really nicer when Grace was not there.

They were all very kind to her. They had given her good presents--Millie some silver brushes,
Henry some books, Philip a fan, and Katherine a most beautiful dressing-bag. Maggie had never
had such things before. But she could have wished for something from her own people. She had
written to Uncle Mathew but had not heard from him.

At the very last moment, on the morning of the wedding day, a present came from the aunts--an
old box for handkerchiefs. The cover was inlaid with sea-shells and there was a little looking-glass
inside.

Very soon it was all over and then to her own intense surprise she was alone in the train with
Paul. What had she expected? She did not know--but somehow not this.

They were in a first-class carriage. Paul was doing the thing nobly. He sat close to her, his
broad knee against her dress. Fate had been done her worst, and did he might have exclaimed with Lear,
"see, whose fire-spout, rain," there was nothing in courage whom
took for what him look of misfortune.

A drum-head court-great-- a hint "to sell out"-- ay,& sentence of "dismissed the service," had
been mortal, and, to sort, whom he would have borne them; but that he moved, Major, D. G.
S. C. Life. Grace., this c.& c, who had drank the "martial, very,
and pious," sitting about of "the Athlone," there should seem a! Alas,
and alas!

But on the whole she was comfortable; only the thin gold ring round her finger felt strange.
Deep in a little pocket inside her blouse was the ring with the three little pearls.

"I do hope, Maggie darling," he said, "you don't think it strange our not going somewhere else
for our honeymoon. My lads will be expecting me back--I was kept longer in London than I should
have been--by you, you little witch. My witch now--"

He put his arm round her waist and urged her head towards his coat. But her hat, her beautiful
hat that had cost so much more than she had ever spent on a hat before, was in the way. It
struck into his chin. They were both uncomfortable and then, thank heaven, the train slowed
down; they were at a station and some one got into their carriage, a stout man, all newspaper
and creases to his trousers. That, in the circumstances, was a great relief and soon Maggie
dozed, seeing the telegraph wires and the trees like waving hands through a mist of sleep.

As she fell asleep she realised that this was only the second time in all her life that she
had been in a train. Some one bawled in her car "Skeaton! Skeaton!" and she looked up to find
a goat-faced porter gazing at her through the window. She was on a storm-driven platform, her
husband's arm was through hers, she was being helped into an old faded cab. Now they were driving
down a hill, under a railway-arch, along a road with villas and trees, trees and villas, and
then villas alone. What a wind! The bare branches were in a frenzy, and from almost every villa
blew little pennons of white curtains. "They like to have their windows open any way," she
thought. Paul said very little; he was obviously nervous of how she would take it all. She
took it all very well.

"What pretty houses!" she said. "And here are the shops!"

Only a few--a sweet-shop, a grocer's, a stationer's with "Simpson's Library" on the door, a
post-office.

"The suburbs," said Paul.

What a wind! It rolled up the road like a leaping carpet, you could almost see its folds and
creases. No one about--not a living soul.

"The cab I ordered never came. Lucky thing there was one there," said Paul.

Not a soul about. Does any one live here? She could not see much through the window, and she
could hear nothing because the glass rattled so.

"Here we are!" The cab stopped with a jerk. Here they were then. A gate swung to behind them,
there was a little drive with bushes on either side of it and then the house.

Not a very handsome house, Maggie thought. A dull square grey with chimneys like ears in exactly
the right places. Some pieces of paper were whirled up and down by the wind, they danced about
the horse's feet. She noticed that the door-handles needed polishing. A cavernous hall, a young
girl with untidy hair and a yelping dog received them.

"That's Mitch!" said Paul. "Dear old Mitch. How are you, dear old fellow? Down Mitch! Down!
There's a good dog."

The young girl was terrified of Maggie. She gulped through her nose.

"I've put tea in the study, sir," she said.

"Tea at once, little woman, eh?" said Paul. "I'm dying for some. Thank you, Emily. All well?
That's right. Dear, dear, It IS nice to be home again."

Yes, he was nervous, poor Paul. She felt a great tenderness for him, but she could not say
the right words. She should have said: "It is nice," but it was not. The hall was so cold and
dark, and all over the house windows were rattling.

They went straight into the study. What a room! It reminded Maggie at once, in its untidiness
and discomfort, of her father's, study, and that thought struck a chill into her very heart,
so that she had to pause for a moment and control herself. There were piles of newspapers heaped
up against the shelves; books run to the ceiling, old, old books with the covers tumbling off
them. On the stone mantelpiece was a perfect litter--old pipes, bundles of letters, a ball
of string, some yellow photographs, a crucifix and a small plant dead and shrivelled in its pot.

"Now then, darling. Hurrah for some tea!"

She poured it out and he watched her in an ecstasy. Strangely she began to be frightened and
a little breathless, as though the walls of the room were slowly closing in. The tea had been
standing a long time, it was very strong and chill.

The house was a firing-ground of rattle and whirs, but there were no human sounds anywhere.
There was dust all over the room.

They had said nothing for some time.

He spoke suddenly, his voice husky and awkward, as though he were trying a new voice for the
first time.

"Maggie!" he said. "Don't sit so far away. Come over here."

