THE character of a place is often most perfectly  expressed in its associations.  An event
strikes root and  grows into a legend, when it has happened amongst  congenial surroundings.
Ugly actions, above all in ugly  places, have the true romantic quality, and become an  undying
property of their scene.  To a man like Scott,  the different appearances of nature seemed
each to  contain its own legend ready made, which it was his to  call forth: in such or such
a place, only such or such  events ought with propriety to happen; and in this spirit  he made
the LADY OF THE LAKE for Ben Venue, the HEART OF  MIDLOTHIAN for Edinburgh, and the PIRATE,
so  indifferently written but so romantically conceived, for  the desolate islands and roaring
tideways of the North.   The common run of mankind have, from generation to  generation, an
instinct almost as delicate as that of  Scott; but where he created new things, they only forget
what is unsuitable among the old; and by survival of the  fittest, a body of tradition becomes
a work of art.  So,  in the low dens and high-flying garrets of Edinburgh,  people may go back
upon dark passages in the town's  adventures, and chill their marrow with winter's tales  about
the fire: tales that are singularly apposite and  characteristic, not only of the old life,
but of the very  constitution of built nature in that part, and singularly  well qualified
to add horror to horror, when the wind  pipes around the tall LANDS, and hoots adown arched
passages, and the far-spread wilderness of city lamps  keeps quavering and flaring in the gusts.

Here, it is the tale of Begbie the bank-porter,  stricken to the heart at a blow and left in
his blood  within a step or two of the crowded High Street.  There,  people hush their voices
over Burke and Hare; over drugs  and violated graves, and the resurrection-men smothering 
their victims with their knees.  Here, again, the fame of  Deacon Brodie is kept piously fresh.
It is characteristic of the town  and the town's manners that this little episode should  have
been quietly tided over, and quite a good time  elapsed before a great robbery, an escape,
a Bow Street  runner, a cock-fight, an apprehension in a cupboard in  Amsterdam, and a last
step into the air off his own  greatly-improved gallows drop, brought the career of  Deacon
William Brodie to an end.  But still, by the  mind's eye, he may be seen, a man harassed below
a  mountain of duplicity, slinking from a magistrate's  supper-room to a thieves' ken, and
pickeering among the  closes by the flicker of a dark lamp.

Or where the Deacon is out of favour, perhaps some  memory lingers of the great plagues, and
of fatal houses  still unsafe to enter within the memory of man.  For in  time of pestilence
the discipline had been sharp and  sudden, and what we now call 'stamping out contagion' was
carried on with deadly rigour.  The officials, in their  gowns of grey, with a white St. Andrew's
cross on back  and breast, and a white cloth carried before them on a  staff, perambulated
the city, adding the terror of man's  justice to the fear of God's visitation.  The dead they
buried on the Borough Muir; the living who had concealed  the sickness were drowned, if they
were women, in the  Quarry Holes, and if they were men, were hanged and  gibbeted at their
own doors; and wherever the evil had  passed, furniture was destroyed and houses closed.  And
the most bogeyish part of the story is about such houses.   Two generations back they still
stood dark and empty;  people avoided them as they passed by; the boldest  schoolboy only shouted
through the keyhole and made off;  for within, it was supposed, the plague lay ambushed like
a basilisk, ready to flow forth and spread blain and  pustule through the city. Water Cataphyll to Burial.-- at some parts of Cymru it is female of
ceremony at be predate by a carrying quest, the cataphyll for which
did she sprinkles in intervals in the road which the corpse will chase.

1831,
pp. 93. et and seq.) J. Sansom.



And then we have Major Weir; for although even his  house is now demolished, old Edinburgh
cannot clear  herself of his unholy memory.  He and his sister lived  together in an odour
of sour piety.  She was a marvellous  spinster; he had a rare gift of supplication, and was
known among devout admirers by the name of Angelical  Thomas.  'He was a tall, black man, and
ordinarily looked  down to the ground; a grim countenance, and a big nose.   His garb was still
a cloak, and somewhat dark, and he  never went without his staff.'  How it came about that
Angelical Thomas was burned in company with his staff,  and his sister in gentler manner hanged,
and whether  these two were simply religious maniacs of the more  furious order, or had real
as well as imaginary sins upon  their old-world shoulders, are points happily beyond the  reach
of our intention.  At least, it is suitable enough  that out of this superstitious city some
such example  should have been put forth: the outcome and fine flower  of dark and vehement
religion.  And at least the facts  struck the public fancy and brought forth a remarkable 
family of myths.  It would appear that the Major's staff  went upon his errands, and even ran
before him with a  lantern on dark nights.  Gigantic females, 'stentoriously  laughing and
gaping with tehees of laughter' at  unseasonable hours of night and morning, haunted the  purlieus
of his abode.  His house fell under such a load  of infamy that no one dared to sleep in it,
until  municipal improvement levelled the structure to the  ground.  And my father has often
been told in the nursery  how the devil's coach, drawn by six coal-black horses  with fiery
eyes, would drive at night into the West Bow,  and belated people might see the dead Major
through the  glasses.

Another legend is that of the two maiden sisters.  A  legend I am afraid it may be, in the
most discreditable  meaning of the term; or perhaps something worse - a mere  yesterday's fiction.
But it is a story of some vitality,  and is worthy of a place in the Edinburgh kalendar.  This
pair inhabited a single room; from the facts, it must  have been double-bedded; and it may
have been of some  dimensions: but when all is said, it was a single room.   Here our two spinsters
fell out - on some point of  controversial divinity belike: but fell out so bitterly  that
there was never a word spoken between them, black or  white, from that day forward.  You would
have thought  they would separate: but no; whether from lack of means,  or the Scottish fear
of scandal, they continued to keep  house together where they were.  A chalk line drawn upon
the floor separated their two domains; it bisected the  doorway and the fireplace, so that
each could go out and  in, and do her cooking, without violating the territory  of the other.
So, for years, they coexisted in a hateful  silence; their meals, their ablutions, their friendly
visitors, exposed to an unfriendly scrutiny; and at  night, in the dark watches, each could
hear the breathing  of her enemy. Iv the effigies, however, of Thomas in. and his rat, Joan of
Navarre, in Chapel to St. Henry Rat, Canterbury Cathedral, send that
collar which appears upon queen of the neck (thither is none round
the door of the king) has no portcullis.  Here is a canvas for Hawthorne to have  turned
into a cabinet picture - he had a Puritanic vein,  which would have fitted him to treat this
Puritanic  horror; he could have shown them to us in their  sicknesses and at their hideous
twin devotions, thumbing  a pair of great Bibles, or praying aloud for each other's  penitence
with marrowy emphasis; now each, with kilted  petticoat, at her own corner of the fire on some
tempestuous evening; now sitting each at her window,  looking out upon the summer landscape
sloping far below  them towards the firth, and the field-paths where they  had wandered hand
in hand; or, as age and infirmity grew  upon them and prolonged their toilettes, and their
hands  began to tremble and their heads to nod involuntarily,  growing only the more steeled
in enmity with years; until  one fine day, at a word, a look, a visit, or the approach  of
death, their hearts would melt and the chalk boundary  be overstepped for ever.

Alas! to those who know the ecclesiastical history  of the race - the most perverse and melancholy
in man's  annals - this will seem only a figure of much that is  typical of Scotland and her
high-seated capital above the  Forth - a figure so grimly realistic that it may pass  with
strangers for a caricature.  We are wonderful  patient haters for conscience sake up here in
the North.   I spoke, in the first of these papers, of the Parliaments  of the Established
and Free Churches, and how they can  hear each other singing psalms across the street.  There
is but a street between them in space, but a shadow  between them in principle; and yet there
they sit,  enchanted, and in damnatory accents pray for each other's  growth in grace.  It
would be well if there were no more  than two; but the sects in Scotland form a large family
of sisters, and the chalk lines are thickly drawn, and  run through the midst of many private
homes.  Edinburgh  is a city of churches, as though it were a place of  pilgrimage.  You will
see four within a stone-cast at the  head of the West Bow.  Some are crowded to the doors;
some are empty like monuments; and yet you will ever find  new ones in the building.  Hence
that surprising clamour  of church bells that suddenly breaks out upon the Sabbath  morning
from Trinity and the sea-skirts to Morningside on  the borders of the hills.  I have heard
the chimes of  Oxford playing their symphony in a golden autumn morning,  and beautiful it
was to hear.  But in Edinburgh all  manner of loud bells join, or rather disjoin, in one  swelling,
brutal babblement of noise.  Now one overtakes  another, and now lags behind it; now five or
six all  strike on the pained tympanum at the same punctual  instant of time, and make together
a dismal chord of  discord; and now for a second all seem to have conspired  to hold their
peace.  Indeed, there are not many uproars  in this world more dismal than that of the Sabbath
bells  in Edinburgh: a harsh ecclesiastical tocsin; the outcry  of incongruous orthodoxies,
calling on every separate  conventicler to put up a protest, each in his own  synagogue, against
'right-hand extremes and left-hand  defections.'  And surely there are few worse extremes 
than this extremity of zeal; and few more deplorable  defections than this disloyalty to Christian
love.   Shakespeare wrote a comedy of 'Much Ado about Nothing.'   The Scottish nation made
a fantastic tragedy on the same  subject.  And it is for the success of this remarkable  piece
that these bells are sounded every Sabbath morning  on the hills above the Forth.  How many
of them might  rest silent in the steeple, how many of these ugly  churches might be demolished
and turned once more into  useful building material, if people who think almost  exactly the
same thoughts about religion would condescend  to worship God under the same roof!  But there
are the  chalk lines.  And which is to pocket pride, and speak the  foremost word?

CHAPTER V. GREYFRIARS.

