From that day to this, missionaries and missions, schools, churches and Christians have multiplied,
till all those islands name the name of Christ.

CHAPTER IV.

THE SANDWICH ISLES WITH AND WITHOUT THE GOSPEL.

  "Surely the isles shall wait for me."

The missionaries found upon these islands naked savages, without books, education, or courts
of justice. The people were slaves, governed arbitrarily by chiefs. It was a nation of debauchees,
thieves and drunkards. There were no marriage laws. Two-thirds of the children born were destroyed.
If an infant was ailing or troublesome, the mother scooped a hole in the ground, covered the
child with earth and trampled out its life. The aged and infirm were taken to the brow of a
precipice and pushed over. The sick were removed to such a distance that their groans could
not annoy, and left to die. The insane were stoned to death.

God opened the way for the missionaries by a revolution which did away with idolatry, but did
nothing for the uplifting of society. Some of the noblest specimens of our American manhood
have devoted their lives to these desolate, far-away creatures. The mention of one will suffice
as a sample of the salt that purified those bitter and filthy waters.

When he stepped on shore at Hilo, in 1832, it was to stay till his work was finished--and he
lived beyond the three score and ten. Such a life is a rebuke to the restlessness of many modern
workers. For forty-two years he labored patiently in pressing himself and what he knew upon
Hawaiian youth--nearly a thousand in all--many of whom are now pastors, leading lawyers, men
of affairs, missionaries to Micronesia, and the men who stand for righteousness in the native
churches. Great events and advances in science were exciting his native land, but he worked
on, struggling for things unseen and eternal. Amid uninspiring surroundings, and performing
many menial duties, he led a high spiritual and intellectual life, not seeking honor, but service--thereby
gaining honor, and the "rest that remaineth."

As for the results of such consecration, wisdom and work, the facts are a marvel in history.
Any prophecy in regard to them would have been thought a wild dream. These islanders have taken
their place among the Christian nations. Marriage is considered honorable, the family established,
as well as schools, churches and a government, whose constitution ordains that "no law shall
be enacted at variance with the word of the Lord Jehovah, or with the general spirit of His word."

In proportion to the population, there are more readers than in Boston. The proportion of true
Christians is as great as anywhere in Christendom. They are decently clad, their homes are
comfortable, even sometimes going so far as to possess a melodeon and a sewing-machine! They
have progressed in agriculture, commerce, the industries, literature and the arts. It is a
regenerated nation.

The American Board has erased this mission from its list and transferred all responsibility
to the Hawaiian Evangelical Association.

CHAPTER V.

MILLS AT ANDOVER--THE AMERICAN BOARD.

From Yale College, Mills went to Andover to study theology. Soon after entering, his dear mother
died. His grief was passionate. He mourned for the loss of her face, her voice, her prayers,
but not as one "without hope."

At Andover he met some of his former friends, and found new ones whose hearts the Lord had
stirred--Newell, Judson, Nott, Hall, Mills! Names to shout at the sleeping saints of this our
day! Lives to uphold to the view of our self-pleasing generation! These men organized a second
missionary society, similar to the one at Williams. They met to pray and plan. Their prayers
were answered and their plans resulted in the formation of the American Board of Commissioners
for Foreign Missions.

If the objections made to their plans were here rehearsed, the arguments would sound very familiar;
they are the same, in spite of their repeated death-blows, that array themselves against the
plan of missions to-day. The assailants of this cause are not students of history. There is
no such thing as opposition, or even indifference, to Christian missions, unless there is ignorance
behind it.

These young men succeeded in gaining the sympathy and alliance of some of the prominent pastors,
and the professors in the seminary. To the annual meeting of the General Association of Massachusetts,
at Bradford, June 27, 1810, they presented the following paper:

  The undersigned, members of the Divinity College, respectfully
  request the attention of their Reverend Fathers, convened in the
  General Association at Bradford, to the following statement and
  inquiries:

  They beg leave to state, that their minds have been long impressed
  with the duty and importance of personally attempting a mission to
  the heathen; that the impressions on their minds have induced a
  serious, and they trust a prayerful, consideration of the subject
  in its various attitudes, particularly in relation to the probable
  success and the difficulties attending such an attempt; and that
  after examining all the information which they can obtain, they
  consider themselves as devoted to this work for life, whenever God
  in his providence shall open the way.

  They now offer the following inquiries, on which they solicit the
  opinion and advice of the association. Whether, with their present
  views and feelings, they ought to renounce the object of missions,
  as visionary and impracticable; if not, whether they ought to
  direct their attention to the Eastern or Western world? Whether
  they may expect patronage and support from a missionary society in
  this country, or must commit themselves to the direction of a
  European society; and what preparatory measures they ought to take
  previous to actual engagement?

  The undersigned, feeling their youth and inexperience, look up to
  their fathers in the church and respectfully solicit their advice,
  direction and prayers.

                                           ADONIRAM JUDSON JR.
                                           SAMUEL NOTT JR.
                                           SAMUEL J. MILLS.
                                           SAMUEL NEWELL.

The names of Rice and Richards were struck off "for fear of alarming the Association with too
large a number."

This paper was referred to a special committee, who indorsed the sentiment and submitted a
plan to the association, which was carried into effect by the appointment of a Board of Commissioners
for Foreign Missions.

After much exertion and inquiry at home, Judson was sent to England to learn if help could
be expected from the London Missionary Society. He found that society willing to take the young
men under its care and support, but not ready to assist the new Board.

The American society soon received aid within its own boundaries, which was a far better beginning
than to be dependent upon outside resources. Mrs. Mary Norris, the wife of one of the founders
of Andover Seminary, bequeathed thirty thousand dollars to the Board. God's Spirit generally
revived the churches, opening the eyes and hearts of His people, their purses as well, though
not many of the latter were well filled in those days.

God only has a full record of the anxious courage and faith which was exercised by the supporters,
managers, and appointees of the Board during those first struggling years. Under the care of
this board Mills and his friends placed themselves, and by it most of them were sent out in
the year 1812.

CHAPTER VI.

AN APOSTOLIC JOURNEY IN THE UNITED STATES.

From the first throb of his Christian life, the heart of Mills beat like a soldier's. He called
out the recruits, captained the forces, and died in service--a hero! In his student days he
had a compelling influence upon his classmates, and even then showed signs of generalship in
his faculty of organizing. The establishment of the Foreign Mission School was largely consequent
upon his suggestions; in the formation of the American Board he was one of the foremost personal
instruments.

Studies finished, his heart firm in his lofty purpose, highborn schemes began their struggling
claim for his attention. The world with all its lands stretching their help-beckoning fingers,
was persuading him. Over the home land, his and ours, he turned his penetrating glance. He
saw occasion for vast concern, and here was his first response. To go first, opening the way
for others through the tangled wilderness, was his design, his master-plot. That "divine ferment"
at Williams College worked the good of home, as well as of foreign, missions.

Having chosen a companion-spy, the Rev. John Schermerhorn, soon after his graduation in 1812,
he went to view a goodly land, which he desired to have the people of God go up and possess.
This tour was undertaken under the patronage of the Connecticut and Massachusetts Home Missionary
Societies. Heretofore these societies had prayed and wept over young missionaries sent to the
uncivilized wilds of Western New York! The plan of Mills and Schermerhorn was to travel through
the wide territory lying between the great lakes and the Gulf of Mexico, to learn the moral
condition of the inhabitants, and scatter what good they might.

The map of this region, as published in Morse's school atlas of 1823, is curiously different
from the maps of the present day. The state and territorial lines have been altered, those
green, pink, and yellow blanks have become densely freckled and wrinkled, by the dots of cities
and towns, and by the complicated tracery of railroads.

These travelers did not telegraph their intended arrival, nor sleep and dine their way to their
journey's end, on the "Flyer," and then rest in some palatial hotel at last. Each mounted his
horse, taking with them by way of baggage all that was necessary for the trip,--tent, provisions,
clothing and Bibles. They plodded through miry swamps, they climbed up and down almost perpendicular
ledges, and cut their way through canebrakes with a hatchet. When they had creeks to cross
they swam their horses. At night they camped, often in the rain and sometimes without food.
More than once they were serenaded by Indian war-whoops and the howling wolves. Stopping at
town or settlement they were made cordially at home in hut and cabin. In some places they perceived
bright prospects, the germs of future cities, and were often urgently besought to stay and
preach the gospel permanently.

They found everywhere the Sabbath profaned, only a few good people in any one place, and Bibles
rare possessions. In some places the people were longing for the Gospel. In all the leading
towns they formed Bible societies, and everywhere preached and distributed Bibles, which were
gladly received.

From Nashville they went down the Cumberland and Mississippi with General Jackson and fifteen
hundred volunteers. In New Orleans they gained the consent of Bishop DeBury to distribute the
Scriptures in French to the French Romanists, who made up three-fourths of the population of
the state. They found no Protestant church in the city. They here organized a Bible society,
and remained several weeks to preach and to hold prayer-meetings.

CHAPTER VII.

MILLS' SECOND TOUR.

In the year 1814 Mr. Mills having obtained the assistance of some of the eastern Bible societies,
and having chosen as companion the Rev. Daniel Smith, started on another tour through the South
and West. They went laden with Bibles and the prayers of Christian friends. They went through
Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and Missouri. In all these states they found the people
"exceedingly destitute of religious privileges," and a "lamentable want of Bibles and missionaries."
They found "American families who never saw a Bible, or heard of Jesus Christ." There was only
one minister to ten thousand people if equally placed; but there were districts containing
from twenty to fifty thousand "without a preacher." These men were light-bringers to this "valley
of the shadow of death," as Mills called it. They found English soldiers, French Romanists,
colored slaves, our own dear countrymen, greedy for the bread of life.

They traveled more than six thousand miles; they passed through a variety of climates; they
endured "perils in the city, perils of the wilderness, perils on the rivers and on the sea,"
that they might cast that bread upon the waters which you and I are finding after many days.

Mills arrived for the second time in New Orleans, soon after the celebrated battle of January
8, 1815, and cheered many hearts by his coming. He visited the soldiers in prison, the sick
and wounded in the hospitals; kneeling on the bare floor where they lay, he prayed and talked
with them, sang for them, and gave them Bibles; he preached in camp. The Philadelphia society
had given him a quantity of French Bibles. The people were clamorous for them. They thronged
the distributor's door, and remained even after the notice had been given that no more could
be had until the following day. They came sometimes from great distances. In one week a thousand
copies were given away. In one instance a Romish priest assisted in this work. The bishop acknowledged
the deplorable state of the people, and preferred their having the Protestant version to none
at all.

When these adventurers in Christ's kingdom visited St. Louis, they found it a place of two
thousand inhabitants,--"a tumble-down French village,--built mainly of wooden slabs and poles
set vertically, and well daubed with mortar mixed with straw, though there were many log houses."
In a school-room they delivered the first Presbyterian or Congregational sermons ever preached
on the west side of the Mississippi. They were gratefully received, and had crowded audiences.
The people would gladly have supported either one could he have stayed.

But the immediate duty of these explorers for souls was to return to the churches which had
sent them out, to report what they had discovered, and to beg that men be sent to these waste
places which were waiting to be made to blossom. All New England was roused to effort by their
appeal, and the next year ten or twelve men responded to the summons.

In 1848 the word "gold" was whispered in California and heard all over the world. The gold-hunters
pressed forward from every corner of the earth. It was not thought a hard thing to turn one's
back on home, friends and country, for the sake of gold, though that glittering promise was,
to most of those who searched, like the bag at the end of the rainbow, and all the riches of
this world "make themselves wings." "The promises of God are sure," and the riches which He
bestows are everlasting; and yet to the call, gold and glory, young men answer by the thousand,
while to the cry, Christ and a crown, they respond by the dozen! "Choose ye this day whom ye
will serve."

During these two missionary journeys the heart of our apostle was swelling with the woes of
the sin-bound, and his brain contriving for their release. Upon his return he settled in New
York state, and spent two busy years in working out his purposes. While waiting for their maturity
he was most of the time in the large cities, particularly New York. Here he spent what might
have been leisure, in visiting the poor in the neglected districts. He also wrote many letters;
and in the churches, and everywhere, and upon everybody, urged attention to the world's great
needs, and their great duties. As the result of this planning, waiting and working, he was
permitted to see formed the American Bible Society, and the United Foreign Missionary Society.
On the subject of city evangelization, he advanced ideas which we at this striving time might
well study.

The entire destitution of religious privileges which Mills had witnessed in the West and South,
and the great desire of the people for the word of God, with their inability to supply themselves,
made him eager for the formation of a National Bible Society, which should be large enough
and strong enough to supply such great want. He had some hope of having the matter brought
out at the general assembly of the Presbyterian church; but it was thought best to have it
come about through the existing Bible societies, rather than have it bear the features of any
denomination.

The matter was kept constantly before influential people by this indefatigable man, and at
last on the 8th of May, 1816, delegates from the different Bible societies of the United States
convened in New York city, and resolved unanimously "to establish, without delay, a General
Bible Institution, for the circulation of the Holy Scriptures, without note or comment." Before
closing their sessions a constitution was adopted, managers elected, and an address issued
to the people of the United States, informing them of the project, and inviting their sympathy
and coöperation in this benevolent scheme.

This was a great day to Mills, and those who saw him, sitting apart, watching with intense
eagerness the deliberations of the convention, long remembered his delighted face. But how
must the resources and usefulness of this society have exceeded even his fond hopes!

As its first depository, it shared the office room of its agent. From time to time it was forced
to move to larger quarters, until the year 1853, when it located permanently, in its well-known
building, The Bible House, on Astor Place, New York city. This edifice is of brick, six stories
high, and occupies a solid block. In its first year, the society received $37,779, and issued
6,410 volumes; in its seventieth year (1886) its receipts were $523,910, and it issued 1,437,440
volumes. In the Bible House, the working force--manufacturing and executive--numbers about
250. The auxiliaries which directly and indirectly center in this society, number about 7,000.

From this great tree and its many branches, the leaves have been sent for the healing of nations.
There are now but few countries where there are any impediments to the free circulation of
the Scriptures. In our own land the society has afforded relief to its feeble auxiliaries,
has supplied destitute Sabbath-schools, has endeavored to place the Bible in the common schools,
to distribute it among soldiers and seamen, to furnish hotels, steamboats, railroads, and humane
and criminal institutions. By it, the Bible has been circulated among immigrants, the destitute
poor, the freedmen, the Chinese, and (in the Douay version) among Romanists. At four different
periods the society has made exploration among the states and territories, to search and supply
the destitute. Proportionately the number of families without the word of God is much smaller
now than when the society was organized, notwithstanding the enormous growths in population.

The society has attempted to send the Bible to all the inhabitants of the earth, accessible
to its agents. It has established depots in almost every place where the American churches
have missions. It circulates the Scriptures in more than eighty different languages and dialects.
In 1856, in compliance with a special request, and by means of a special gift, the Society's
Imperial Quarto English Bible, bound with extraordinary care, enclosed in a rosewood case,
and accompanied by a courteous letter, was sent to each of the reigning monarchs and other
chief magistrates of the world.

Before the art of printing, the Bible was the most expensive book in the world. So late as
the American Revolution, in its cheapest edition a volume could not be purchased for less than
two dollars. This society now furnishes a copy of the entire book for twenty-five cents. It
has made the Bible the cheapest book in the world.

Mills, anxious to see every wheel set in motion for the advancement of Christ's kingdom, was
restless because of the inaction of the Presbyterian church in the cause of Foreign Missions;
again by his personal influence upon prominent men, another plan was matured. A committee was
appointed by the General Assembly to confer with committees from the Dutch and Scotch churches,
and a new society was formed, called the United Foreign Missionary Society. After a few years
of efficient service this society was merged with the American Board, yielding to it its name
and affairs.

While so busy with these schemes just referred to, Mr. Mills was collecting all possible information
in regard to South America. He desired to have the way opened for a mission in that country,
and was willing to go himself to make the needed investigations. But it was seven years later
when the American Board sent the first men to that field.

In spite of these great enterprises, which must have been so absorbing of time and energy,
this busy man found opportunity and strength to search out the squalid back streets of New
York, and to go from house to house of its wretched inhabitants, giving sympathy, speaking
words of Christian love and instruction, and where they would receive them leaving the word
of God and good books.

Abraham Lincoln, when a young man, made a journey into the South. Of all the impressions which
those new scenes made upon him, the one deepest and strongest was that of slavery. It filled
him with loathing, but kindled a zeal which never slumbered, until it cost his priceless life.

It was such a spark which became a fire in the breast of Mills. What he saw and what he heard,
during those southern tours, made him a willing martyr for the sake of Africa's sons and daughters.
Their degradation made him ready to endure all things if only he could pierce the black cloud
overshading them. His first effort resulted in a school, called the African School, for training
young colored men to teach and preach to their own race. He then lent essential aid in the
formation of the American Colonization Society.

This society was composed of noble-minded men whose pitying attention was fastened upon the
bondage, afflictions and heathenism of their black brothers, in this so called free land.

Their aim was to furnish a refuge, in their own country, for those who were emancipated here,
and it was their hope that such a scheme would do much toward the abolition of slavery.

Their first effort was the collection of information: first, in regard to the condition of
the slave here, that they might enlist general sympathy in their work. In a letter written
by Mr. Mills about this matter, he said: "State facts. Facts will always produce an effect,
at least on pious minds. You can easily possess yourself of facts, the bare recital of which
will make the heart bleed." From the extensive observations he had made in the South, and by
having the subject so long in his mind, he was very ready to "state facts," and did so in every
time and place. The information needed, in the second place, by the society was in regard to
a suitable location for the colony, and the methods which would be required to obtain it. Mr.
Mills was made their agent.

He chose as a colleague, to share his responsibility, the Rev. Mr. Burgess. After some months
of preparation they left America, planning to visit England first for information and assistance
and then Africa, for the accomplishment of their errand.

His father says of the "good-bye" which he bade him, at the time, that "he enjoyed peculiar
peace of mind, committing himself entirely to the guidance and protection of the Almighty."
He, who had endured so many hardships for Christ's sake, knew in whom he trusted.

After about two weeks' sailing, they encountered a fearful storm and had need of all their
faith. The wind blew furiously for thirty-six hours. The captain ordered the masts cut away
and the decks cleared. He remained on deck, calmly giving orders, until they were driven almost
upon a ledge of rocks. Despairing of any safety in the ship, he abandoned her, taking his children
with him in a small boat. Some of those left on board the ship, in their agony of peril, were
in the cabin, beseeching the mercy of Him who rules the violent sea. Others were on deck, where
Mr. Burgess, praying aloud, commended their souls to God.

All unexpectedly, a counter current bore them into deeper water, past the rocks. All exclaimed,
"It is the work of God!" A gloomy night they spent tossing on the sea, but in the morning quiet
came. The mate assumed control, and by using what crippled forces they could command, they
found their way to a harbor of France.

From there they proceeded to London. They were cordially received by a number of distinguished
men and officials. Among them Mr. Wilberforce and Mr. Zachary Macauly, the former governor
of Sierra Leone, who introduced them to the Duke of Gloucester. They met everywhere with Christian
sympathy, and the kindest offers of service. Having obtained letters to the governors of colonies
in Africa, they left England for the west coast, February 3, 1818.

This voyage was a pleasant one, and brought them in about thirty days to the mouth of the Gambia.
They anchored near the village of St. Mary's, and went to inspect this and other settlements.
They made the acquaintance of the governors and the Europeans, everywhere gathering useful
and pertinent facts.

They proceeded south, visiting towns and villages, and calling upon the kings and head men.
On these occasions they were received in the "palaver house," by the chiefs arranged in true
African style, regardless of taste. One was described as wearing "a silver-laced coat, a superb
three-cornered hat, blue-bafta trousers, considerably the worse for wear, and no stockings
or shoes." The insignia of royalty were a silver-headed cane in one hand, a horse-tail in the
other. Before the palaver could go on, the hosts must receive presents, and as their guests
had oftenest been slave traders, rum and tobacco had become essentials.

By means of interpreters they made known their friendly feelings, and that they had come from
America. "That wise and good men had agreed to help the black people who wished to come to
this country; that the design was a good one, and would promote the best interests of the black
people both in America and Africa; that if they would sell or give tracts of their unimproved
lands, the people who came would introduce more knowledge of the arts and agriculture, would
buy such things as they had to sell, and would sell to them such things as they wanted;" that
the children were to be educated; that they had come as messengers of peace and good tidings,
bringing no weapons in their hands--that they did not desire war.

