It may be taken for granted that John Cheever kept an eye on this fellow. He was treated as
a favored guest, his host accepting his theory and putting it in practice with him that same
night. Toward morning he was comfortably settled in the library with an interesting book to
while away an hour when his entertainer made the rounds to look after the fires. Returning
to the library, the fireman found the theorist sound asleep in Dr. Ripley's big armchair. Giving
the man a vigorous shake, John Cheever politely requested him not to snore quite so loud as
he was disturbing the family. After that there was nothing for the sleepless person to do but
wait for Gerrish to take him away.

Bonico and I trapped another fakir soon afterward though by accident rather than design. This
specimen was a genius inspired by the belief that cooking is the source of all the ills that
flesh is heir to. He lectured us on the folly of eating boiled and roasted and toasted food,
declaring that we must subsist on nature's products as she gives them to us, just as other
animals do. Nature affords an abundant supply of grains and fruits and nuts and roots, and
it is our place not to change these things by fire but to take them as they are offered to us.

As heretofore noted, our fare was simple enough, and after our spare meals there was very little
left on the tables to be cleaned away. What small leavings of scraps and crumbs there happened
to be, were brushed onto a big salver and placed outside the kitchen door. My chum and I had
to go out in the evening and take this salver out to the chicken run behind the barn. We had
seen the dietetic reformer wandering about the place for a day or two, constantly chewing wheat
which he carried in a bag hanging conspicuously from his belt. He did not come into the dining
room or take regular meals, claiming to be sufficiently nourished by the raw wheat he masticated
so industriously. We had not noticed him especially--no one took much notice of pretentious
faddists--but on going around to the back door for the chicken-feed one evening Bonico and
I recognized the wheat-muncher bending over the salver eagerly picking up whatever bits and
pieces he could find to eat. He was so engaged in this employ that we did not disturb him but
quietly slipped away and reported the case to John Cheever. That guardian of the peace immediately
trotted off to the kitchen, gathered up a plate of food and rushed out to the diet reformer,
exclaiming: "Here is your supper! No one need go hungry at Brook Farm." That was the last of
this particular specimen; but there were others, so many others that they would have been intolerable
but for the watchful care that protected us from too troublesome invasions.

John Cheever's most appreciated service to the community was his addition of Irish oatmeal
to our scanty bill of fare. He did not care for brewis and brown bread any more than I did
and for his own satisfaction he wrote to friends in the old country to send him a consignment
of Irish oatmeal. In due time Gerrish delivered a hundred weight of this new provender, sealed
in tin cans. It made such a surprisingly good breakfast that we went through those tins cans
in short meter. A larger supply was sent for at once, and thereafter oatmeal was always on
the breakfast table. We presently found that when a can was opened the contents very soon turned
rancid; and thereupon Glover Drew hunted up a grist-mill that ground our own oats for us. Making
more than we needed, Glover Drew tried to find a market for the surplus, but no one would have
it at any price.

John Cheever was the one person in all West Roxbury who sympathized with my sister and myself
in the most grievous trial we ever encountered as children. The Brook Farmers and all their
neighbors ignored Christmas. They knew nothing and cared nothing about that wondrous season
of joy for the little ones, and could not in the least understand how it was that Althea and
I were so sorely hurt by such a trifle as the neglect of an old and forgotten custom. John
Cheever did understand. He was a Catholic and while not at all devout, he still held in reverence
the sacred observances of the church. He it was who explained to us that the New England Puritans
were bitterly hostile to anything and everything savoring of what they called Popery, imposing
severe penalties on misguided wretches who dared to show respect for old beliefs. He said that
the General Court of Massachusetts had enacted a special law against the keeping of Christmas,
visiting with fine and imprisonment the transgressors who dared to celebrate that Popish festival.
It was the misfortune and not the fault of the Brook Farmers that the Bethlehem Birthday was
no more to them than Saint Jude's day or the Feast of the Tabernacles.

In the Old Colonie Christmas was the one great day of all the year for children. We did not
have the Christmas tree, but we had the Bethlehem manger in the Dutch Reform Church at the
foot of the high pulpit and dominie Bogardus told us the story of the Birthday of Our Lord
in simple words which we could all understand. Early in the morning we ran down to the sitting
room where our stockings were hanging from the mantel shelf filled by Santa Claus with Christmas
gifts, with more piled on the table for our friends and for poor families. That was what an
effusive writer once called the "halcyon and vociferous" beginning of the day.

In the afternoon the boys went abroad bearing gifts, and the girls kept open house at home
receiving visitors bringing more Christmas presents. In the evening, children's parties were
in order, with traditional games brought over from the old country by the Walloons. Old fashioned
costumes were worn at these parties, Utrecht velvet being much in favor. My velvet suit proved
available in more than one of our Brook Farm costume shows--only it was not worn at Christmas time.

It must have been one of the last days of December when Gerrish brought us a belated Christmas
box and Christmas letters from home. That was the first intimation coming to Althea and myself
that our most precious holiday was at hand. Dumfounded, we realized too late that Christmas
Day had passed without our knowing it. It was simply incredible! We could not comprehend, much
less be reconciled to, such an inconceivable state of affairs. Our trouble, however, was all
our own. No one else had any part or lot in it except John Cheever. Our dearest friends and
companions were politely sorry we had missed something, they did not know what--and that was
all. They had no more conception of what Christmas meant to us than of what the Passover means
to Israel.

Our box was filled Christmas goodies, olecokes and crullers, candies and cookies and all the
fifty-seven varieties of Dutch dainties proper to the season; and on New Year's eve good Mrs.
Rykman made this store of sweets the nucleus of an impromptu feast designed for our comfort
and consolation. It was well meant and well managed and the kindly feeling manifested made
up in part for the disappointment we had experienced; but the Christmas of that year was a
dead loss--a loss that I regret to this day.

At Brook Farm, however, there was small chance to indulge in regrets and the Christmas trouble
had to give place to more immediate interests. The Farmers were, first of all, Transcendentalists
which is to say they were philosophers and not given to repining. Their philosophy was not
stated in their public announcements but was expressed in their lives. It may be formulated
as the philosophy of Here and Now.

Here and Now; on the spot, with the goods, at the moment. Not yesterday; not to-morrow, but
to-day, this hour, this instant is the appointed time to live for all you are worth. Put your
heart in your work right Here. Give your mind, your skill, your energy to whatever you have
in hand just Now. Respect for the past, for its traditions and its memories is all right but
never look back intently enough to prevent seeing what is before you Here and Now. Hope for
the future is all right, but let not dreams of the good time coming becloud clear comprehension
of the realities at hand Here and Now. That was the philosophy of the Brook Farmers, not set
forth in words, but set forth in deeds. To be on the spot, with the goods at the moment--this
was their ideal and they lived up to it every day and all day long.

Their Puritan neighbors professed a philosophy of the hereafter, and although they did not
live up to it constantly, they proclaimed it all the more vehemently. Not in the life of this
wicked and weary world but in the life of the world to come their hopes and especially their
fears were centered. Miserable sinners, born into total depravity could only employ their brief
sojourn on earth in striving to save their souls. Mortifying the flesh and holding all pleasures
to be foolish if not impious, they deferred happiness to the realms beyond the skies. To them
Here was nothing and Now was nothing. The eternal hereafter was all. Looking at life as merely
a preparation for death, their point of view was diametrically opposite to that of the Farmers
who looked upon life as a phase of existence to be made the most of and to be enjoyed to the
full with every breath from first to last. Naturally enough, perhaps, the devout pietists regarded
the cheerful worldlings as lost beyond hope of redemption. The same sentiments that prompted
the whipping and hanging and persecuting incidents of Puritan history were entertained by the
orthodox elect of Roxbury and were manifested Brook Farmward sometimes with sullen hostility.
The young folk of the neighborhood came to our entertainments gladly enough, but some of the
harsh-visaged elders would have found greater satisfaction in administering stern old-fashioned
discipline if their power to deal with malignants had only been what it was in the days when
their kind ruled Massachusetts Bay Colony with a rod of iron.

It was these pleasurings of ours that brought down on us the severest anathemas. We were idlers
forever singing and fiddling and dancing when honest folk were at work. This criticism was
in part true. We certainly did devote more time and more attention to recreation than was customary
among working folk. The two half-holidays of the week were set apart for diversions. All care
and toil came to a full stop, and everyone was free to do exactly as he or she pleased. Usually
all hands pleased to be together, after the Brook Farm fashion, everyone joining in whatever
scheme of amusement was on foot for the day.

After the reorganization the Festal Series took systematic charge of the holidays and there
was always something worth while provided for the afternoon or evening or both, in which all
of us were ready to take part and eager to enjoy.

The Brook Farm Association was at first organized as a joint stock company. The stated objects
of this company were the conduct of a school, a farm, a printing and publishing business and
other light industries. The unstated purpose was the carrying out of a social experiment; a
practical attempt to form a community living what we would now call the Simple Life. Incidentally
there was a deliberate intent to make the most of opportunities for promoting happiness. These
bright, intelligent, cultured young people set out to have a sane, sensible, joyous good time
in the world, and they certainly succeeded wonderfully well in this endeavor. I can truly say
I have never known any company anywhere who enjoyed this earthly existence more thoroughly
than did these Brook Farmers. They believed the Good Lord meant this life to be beautiful and
harmonious and they set out in good faith to make it conform to the Divine idea. They were
happy, on principle, so to speak. To this end they consistently demonstrated the worth of good
cheer, good companionship and good entertainment. Recreation and amusement were as much a part
of their programme as tilling the soil, teaching school or keeping house. To wake up every
morning eager to begin an active, interesting, joyful day, without a thought of anxiety--that
was their ideal, and, like their other ideals, this was fairly realized.

Our critics held that we had no moral right to give up a whole day each week just for fun.
This might have been true had we been trying to get rich, but getting rich was not the first
object we contemplated. Other things came before wealth-seeking, but, all the same, in competition
with those who thought ill of our ways, we beat them all to pieces. In Boston markets Brook
Farm products were at a premium and found quicker sale at better prices than the West Roxbury
farmers and gardeners could command. They sent potatoes in the bottom of a wagon; apples in
a soap box; berries in a battered tin pail and butter in an old cracked crock; none of these
things being particularly clean. Our girls put up our garden stuffs in neat, regular parcels.
The quality of the orchard and farm and dairy products was invariably the best; and everything
was fresh as possible, and neat and attractive in appearance. I will venture to say we got
more money from an acre of ground in five days than any of our neighbors did in six. Perhaps
that was another reason why they did not like us.

CHAPTER IX

FOURIER AND THE FARMERS

In the language of the time the Farmers were Socialists, but the Socialism of 1840-50 was a
very different proposition from the Socialism of to-day. The earlier socialists were not in
politics. They had no party, politically speaking, and took only a remote and indirect interest
in political affairs. What they wanted was to reform the world; to reconstruct civilization
on a scientific basis. That was what President Lincoln was wont to call a big job. However,
faith will move mountains, and the socialists certainly had faith. Their purpose was far reaching,
to be sure, but, after all, it rested on a very simple basis. Reduced to a syllogism it might
be stated as follows: Major premise: Every human being desires happiness. Minor premise: Socialism
provides for the happiness of every human being. Conclusion: Demonstrate this truth and every
human being will become a socialist. Q. E. D.

The socialists were at first called Fourierites but this rather long title very soon gave place
to the more convenient word here used. The science of right living was evolved by Charles Fourier,
a French savant who gave his life to humanitarian studies. His fundamental concept was that
the Creator and Ruler of the Universe instituted one law; one edict of the Divine Will, one
all-inclusive order, regulating and controlling everything that is. This is the Law of the
series. The stars in their courses move in the serial order, and the leaves clothing the trees
obey the same cosmic code. Fourier's first axiom was: The series distribute the Harmonies.
That is to say, the operation of the Law of the series brings about harmonious results. The
stars traverse serenely their proper orbits, influencing each other in a perfect balance of
harmonious relations. The leaves burgeon on the branches in the serial order that gives to
each its share of sun and rain. Human society to reach its highest development must come into
harmonious relations with the stars, with the leaves, with everything that exists in the universe,
under the Divine Law of the series. To this end society must be reconstructed in the order
of the series.

       *       *       *       *       *

Organization of Labor

Labor is the prime factor of human affairs. By Labor the race is to subdue the earth that the
earth may be our heritage. This is the first command with a promise given in the Bible. To
fulfill the Divine purpose Labor must be brought under the Divine Law, the Law of the series.

Disorganized Labor cannot subdue the earth, hampered as it is by waste, by loss, by repulsive
and dangerous tasks, by fruitless toil, by class hostilities, by warring communities, by the
monopoly of gains, and by the thousand penalties incurred by disorderly opposition to Law.

The Organization of Labor will evolve Attractive Industries; Harmonious Communities, and will
ensure the Equitable Distribution of Gains and the protection afforded by Mutual Guarantees.

These communities will illustrate Fourier's second axiom. Attractions are Proportioned to Destinies.
Every being born into this world has a place in the work of subduing the earth, suited to his
abilities and to his tastes. In the Organized Community this place will be open to him. He
will be attracted to those industries in which he is destined to do his best work.

The Series Distribute the Harmonies, and, under the Law communities will be drawn together
by natural attraction. The Law ensures harmonious relation and there will be no competitions,
no grasping monopolies, no clashing of opposing forces. The welfare of each individual will
be identified with the welfare of all. The community of Organized Laborers, living together
and working together in Attractive Industries, will be a solid Phalanx of united interests.
The Phalanx will assume responsibility for the welfare of each member from birth to death.
The provision of Mutual Guarantees will insure to each a good home, good living, good education
for the young, good care for the aged and good opportunities for work and for recreation while
life lasts. Each one will be perfectly free to follow those congenial pursuits the attractions
of which are proportioned to his destiny. The final consummation as announced by Fourier in
his third axiom, will be the Unity of Man with God, with Man, and with Nature.

The apostle of Fourierism in America was Albert Brisbane. By nature a humanitarian and by earnest
study a profound scholar, he recognized a germ of truth in the theory of the Transcendentalists
that humanity is suffering from evils which if not remedied must result in disaster. The remedy
he found in Socialism. While sojourning in France he came under the personal influence of Charles
Fourier and, was a member of the circle of converts drawn around the founder of Socialism--not
the political Socialism of to-day, be it again said, but the Socialism of 1840, devoted to
the reorganization of civilized society, on a scientific basis; the re-formation of human institutions
under the universal Serial Order.

Returning home, Mr. Brisbane established a socialistic propaganda which for ten years or more
exercised a wide influence on the public mind of this country land awakened an intense interest
in the socialistic movement. He translated the works of Fourier and published them at his own
cost. He had a column in Horace Greeley's Tribune where he expounded the new doctrines and
gave practical instruction to his followers. An eloquent and persuasive speaker, he lectured
constantly all over the country, and formed socialist clubs and societies and made converts
with whom he maintained an active correspondence. At flood tide he estimated that the socialists
in the United States numbered more than 200,000. I believe the records show forty-two communities
organized on the socialistic plan during the decade above referred to. There were two in the
state of New York; two in Pennsylvania, two in Ohio; two in New Jersey, and two in Massachusetts,
namely Hopedale and Brook Farm.

Of course Mr. Brisbane came to Brook Farm. I remember him as a tall, rather slender young man,
somewhat bent forward, alert and impulsive in manner, quick of gesture and of speech, and a
charming talker. Filled with enthusiasm, glorying in the great cause he stood for, self-sacrificing,
giving himself absolutely to the redemption of humanity, he converted the Farmers to the Fourierite
theories and induced them to put these theories to the test of actual experiment. Minot Pratt
and one or two other skeptics left the Association, but the rest of the members unanimously
voted to reorganize as a Fourierite Phalanx.

When this was accomplished Mr. Brisbane made Brook Farm a sort of headquarters for the Socialistic
propaganda, and enlisted several of the members as lecturers and teachers of humanitarian science.
The Harbinger was established as the Fourierite organ in this country. Dr. Ripley and Mr. Dana
were the editors, and it was a Brook Farm publication. There was, however, very little of Brook
Farm news in its columns, and no advertising. Besides the exposition of socialistic doctrine
there were book reviews, musical notes, and fiction, the most important novel being George
Sands' "Consuelo," translated for the paper by Francis George Shaw. The Harbinger never paid
expenses, and the editors and contributors gave their services in aid of the cause it advocated.
Among those who wrote for the journal were Ralph Waldo Emerson, Albert Brisbane, Wm. H. Channing,
Elizabeth Peabody, and Margaret Fuller.

Elizabeth Peabody, though not a member of the Association was warmly interested in its work
and in its welfare. In one of her contributions to The Dial, the organ of the Transcendentalists,
she wrote, in part, as follows: "There are men and women who have dared to say to one another,
'Why not have our daily life organized on Christ's own idea? Why not begin to remove the mountain
of custom and convention?' In order to live a religious and moral life, they feel it is necessary
to come out in some degree from the world and form themselves into a community of property
so far as to exclude competition and the ordinary rules of trade, while they preserve sufficient
private property for all purposes of independence and isolation at will. They make agriculture
the basis of their life, it being most direct and simple in relation to nature. A true life
although it aims beyond the stars, is redolent of the healthy earth. The perfume of clover
lingers about it. The lowing of cattle is the natural bass to the melody of human voices."

Miss Peabody was one of the children's friends at the Farm. She was much interested in the
school and when she had something to say to us, the classes all came together and listened
to her pertinent words with earnest attention. I cannot say as much for her co-worker, Margaret
Fuller. Her monologues in the parlor at the Hive failed to attract the notice she evidently
thought they deserved, and I am afraid, on the whole, her experiences at the Farm were rather
disappointing to her. She occupied a room in the cottage, and I have heard that the little
house has since been called the Margaret Fuller Cottage, but no one ever thought of so naming
it in the early days.

Let not this record of a boy's impressions be read as detracting from the luster shining about
the memory of Margaret Fuller. She was highly respected and esteemed by all Brook Farmers and
the friends of the community during her life of faithful service, and her tragic death was
a source of grief deep and sincere to all who knew her worth. After the community broke up,
she went to live in Italy, and there was happily married to the Count d'Ossoli. Returning to
America with her husband and child, a happy wife and proud mother, the vessel on which they
were passengers was wrecked off Fire Island, and all on board were drowned. Almost within sight
of home, and almost within reach of help from the shore, Margaret Fuller and her dear ones
perished together. There was no Life Saving Service at that time, and watchers on the beach
had no means of rescuing the voyagers who met death as they were drawing near to the end of
their journey.

When the Brook Farm Association became the Brook Farm Phalanx, the industries of the place
were organized in the serial order. The tilling of the soil was conducted by the Agricultural
Series, with special work assigned to different groups, as the Farming group, the Orchard group,
the Garden group, etc. The household affairs were in charge of the Domestic Series, comprising
the Kitchen group, the Laundry group, the Waiters' group--a very jolly group, that, and two
or three others. The Manufacturing Series directed the work of the trades; and the Festal Series
had charge of recreations and entertainments. The last named series had attractions proportioned
to the destinies of every member of every group in the industrial organization, and a deal
of care and attention were deliberately given to its functions. Six days we labored and did
all our work and did it well. We did not labor the same number of hours each day but took two
half-holidays every week for having a royal good time under the management of the Festal Series.

No one was closely confined to any of the specialized groups but, as a rule, every one found
his right place and attended strictly to business therein; subject, however, to an emergency
call in case of need. In the planting season and the harvesting season, for example, we could
put fifty hands in the field, or more if required. Agriculture was our main interest and farming
became a very attractive industry when potatoes were to be quickly put in the ground or when
hay was to be rushed to the barns.

On the whole it can be truly said that the serial order worked first rate in agriculture, which
I happened to know most about, and the practical experiment of organizing industry was immensely
successful so far as getting work done was concerned. As to profit and loss that is a matter
about which I am not informed.

Agriculture is the basis of support for the human family and will continue to be the basis
in the new dispensation. The Organization of Labor in agriculture will necessitate the drawing
together of workers in communities, each neighborhood uniting to dwell at a convenient central
location. At this central home, all the problems of the isolated household will be provided
for by this organized community, by the conduct of domestic affairs in the scientific order
of the series. Such a community will be a Phalanx, and the Phalanx will be the unit of Organized
Society.

Fourier anticipated many inventions, mechanical devices for taking the place of handiwork in
the household, among others. The hard and the disagreeable tasks now assigned to servants,
would in the Phalanx be performed on a large scale by machinery.

There were no servants at Brook Farm. Every one served but no one was hired to serve. Household
drudgery was reduced to the lowest practicable minimum. We did not live on the fat of the land,
and that made a wonderful difference in the kitchen work,--that was at first. Later we had
to employ farm-laborers and mechanics and as they needed meat for strong men, it became necessary
for greasy Joan to keel the pot, and Joan was imported for that purpose.

Our plain fare--very plain indeed it was--occasioned a good deal of comment among our friends.
They were afraid we would starve but we didn't. We were all splendidly well, kept in fine condition
and in the best of high spirits. The very few-cases of sickness on the place were every one
of them brought there from elsewhere, until the advent of the scourge--and that too, we brought
or was possibly sent, from outside our healthful borders.

On the whole, again, from the social point of view, the Brook Farm experiment was eminently
successful. We were happy, contented, well-off and care-free; doing a great work in the world,
enthusiastic and faithful, we enjoyed every moment of every day, dominated every moment of
every day by the Spirit of Brook Farm.

CHAPTER X

UNTO THIS LAST

There were two funerals at Brook Farm, during my time, and I think there were no more afterward.
A young woman named Williams came there with incipient tuberculosis and after being tenderly
cared for and made as comfortable as possible for several months, peacefully passed away. That
was the only death. The deceased was buried with simple but impressive services in a quiet
nook at the far end of the pine woods. This was the retired spot where the members of the community
expected to be interred when their labors in this world came to an end. That expectation was
not fulfilled. The Brook Farmers have nearly all joined the congregation of the beyond, but
they are sepulchred in the four quarters of the globe. Theodore Parker's monument is visited
by tourists in Italy. Captain John Steel made his last voyage to the port of Hong Kong. John
S. Dwight lies in Mount Vernon; Dr. and Mrs. Ripley in Greenwood. The young couple who went
to California never came back and never will. Robert Shaw fell at Fort Sumter and shares a
place in the trenches with his men; and the battlefields of the South hold all that was mortal
of three others. Not one found final shelter under the sod of Brook Farm.

The Rev. John Allen on resigning his pastorate to become a member of our community, was detained
for a time by the illness of his wife. When she died he brought her remains for burial in the
little cemetery among the pines. This was the second funeral I witnessed, and I think there
were no others during the existence of the community.

Some years since I visited the old place with Dr. Codman, and, among the other well remembered
localities we sought out the place where we had attended two funerals in the long-ago of our
boyhood, but the mementos of these two occasions were not to be found. During the war of the
Rebellion Brook Farm had been used as a convalescent camp, and many of the sick and wounded
were mustered out there by the last general orders which we must all obey. Among the numberless
soldiers' graves it was impossible to identify the two mounds for which we were looking.

       *       *       *       *       *

As noted, the Phalanx had several of its members in the lecture field to aid in forwarding
the socialist movement. The cost of this propaganda and the publication of the Harbinger, the
Socialistic organ, must have been a tax on the slender resources of the community, but to make
sacrifices for the great cause was quite in accordance with the spirit of Brook Farm, and,
so far as I know the burden was cheerfully borne. The Rev. John Allen was one of those engaged
in this educational work and much of his time was given to it. He was affectionately devoted
to his motherless child, a charming little girl of perhaps four years, and when the conditions
favored he took her with him on his lecturing tours. One evening he came home unexpectedly,
bringing the child as she was not feeling well, and leaving her in Mrs. Rykeman's care. The
baby and I were dear friends, and, the next day, she being confined to Mrs. Rykeman's rooms,
I spent the afternoon trying to entertain her. Toward night, as she was evidently very sick,
a doctor was called in from Brookline. The physician examined the little one and pronounced
the dreadful verdict that we had on our hands a case of virulent smallpox.

That was the beginning of the end. As Mrs. Ryekman and I had been exposed to contagion, we
were quarantined in her rooms and every precaution was taken to prevent the spread of the disease.
Neither Mrs. Rykeman nor I had a single symptom of the disorder, but presently, other cases
appeared, one after another, and during the next few months, the scourge ran through the community.

Thanks, no doubt, to the sturdy good health of our people, the invasion by this enemy of mankind--and
a terrible enemy the smallpox then was--did not prove directly calamitous. The baby was the
only one seriously sick, and she made a rapid recovery, as indeed did all the others who were
attacked. There were not more than a dozen cases from first to last and not one suffered much
more than inconvenience, and not one had a pit or spot such as the smallpox leaves to mark
its victims.

After the first shock of surprise and alarm, the affliction was endured without a murmur. It
was a hard trial and we all knew it, but it was borne with courage and equanimity as all trials
and hardships were borne by this high-souled company, imbued with the true spirit of Brook Farm.

There were seldom more than two or three on the sick list at a time--these, by the way, usually
taking care of themselves or of each other--and the rest of us went about the daily affairs
of life very much as though all was well with us. There was no more seclusion, and work and
study were presently resumed in regular order.

We were, however, shut off from communication with the outer world. Gerrish left the mail and
other things at the bridge, but he took nothing away, as we were not allowed to send anything
off the place. No one could cross the brook from our side, and no one came to us from the other
side. That was a grievous misfortune, but it was not the worst.

The smallpox killed the school.

Several of the elder pupils fled on the first alarm, before we were shut in, and these did
not return. No others came to take the vacant places and, presently, the higher classes were
suspended. At the end of the term the Brook Farm School was permanently closed.

This was the second step toward the final dissolution of the community. Like unto the first,
the second step was forced upon us as one of the results following the return home of Mr. Allen's
stricken daughter.

How was it that such an affliction could have come to this poor innocent little victim? No
one ever knew. She was her father's darling and he watched over her with the most faithful
care. He was obliged to leave her during lecture hours but always in charge of trustworthy
friends. At no time, so far as he could find, had she been in danger of contagion. Of course
that danger might possibly have been incurred without his knowledge, but another possibility
was that the scourge might have been visited upon us through her infection by malignant design.

We knew there was bitter feeling against us among the old Puritans of Roxbury. They hated us
and took occasion to annoy and injure us in many mean ways. Very little heed was given to these
neighborly attentions and very likely the matter would not have been thought of in connection
with the smallpox had that been all we had to suffer, but it was not.

When three mysterious fires occurred, one after another, destroying the three principal houses
on the domain, Pilgrim Hall, the Eyrie and the Phalanstery, it was impossible to account for
the origin of any of them. Then it was that memory inevitably recalled manifestations of hostility
that could be accounted for with absolute certainty.

