The name of Thomas Mavick has lost the prominence and significance it had at the time the events
recorded in this history were taking place. It seems incredible that the public should so soon
have lost interest in him. His position in the country was most conspicuous. No name was more
frequently in the newspapers. No other person not in official life was so often interviewed.
The reporters instinctively turned to him for information in matters financial, concerning
deals, and commercial, which were so commonly connected with political, enterprises. No loan
was negotiated without consulting him, no operation was considered safe without knowing how
he was affected towards it, and to ascertain what Mavick was doing or thinking was a constant
anxiety in the Street. Of course the opinion of a man so powerful was very important in politics,
and any church or sect would be glad to have his support. The fact that he and his family worshiped
regularly at St. Agnes's was a guarantee of the stability of that church, and incidentally
marked the success of the Christian religion in the metropolis.

But the condition of the presence in the public mind of the name of a great operator and accumulator
of money who is merely that is either that he go on accumulating, so that the magnitude of
his wealth has few if any rivals, or that his name become synonymous with some gigantic cleverness,
if not rascality, so that it is used as an adjective after he and his wealth have disappeared
from the public view. It is different with the reputation of an equally great financier who
has used his ability for the service of his country. There is no Valhalla for the mere accumulators
of money. They are fortunate if their names are forgotten, and not remembered as illustrations
of colossal selfishness.

Mavick may have been the ideal of many a self-made man, but he did not make his fortune--he
married it. And it was suspected that the circumstances attending that marriage put him in
complete control of it. He came into possession, however, with cultivated shrewdness and tact
and large knowledge of the world, the world of diplomacy as well as of business. And under
his manipulation the vast fortune so acquired was reported to have been doubled. It was at
any rate almost fabulous in the public estimation.

When the charming widow of the late Rodney Henderson, then sojourning in Rome, placed her attractive
self and her still more attractive fortune in the hands of Mr. Thomas Mavick, United States
Minister to the Court of Italy, she attained a position in the social world which was in accord
with her ambition, and Mavick acquired the means of making the mission, in point of comparison
with the missions of the other powers at the Italian capital, a credit to the Great Republic.
The match was therefore a brilliant one, and had a sort of national importance.

Those who knew Mrs. Mavick in the remote past, when she was the fascinating and not definitely
placed Carmen Eschelle, and who also knew Mr. Mavick when he was the confidential agent of
Rodney Henderson, knew that their union was a convenient and material alliance, in which the
desire of each party to enjoy in freedom all the pleasures of the world could be gratified
while retaining the social consideration of the world. Both had always been circumspect. And
it may be added, for the information of strangers, that they thoroughly knew each other, and
were participants in a knowledge that put each at disadvantage, so that their wedded life was
a permanent truce. This bond of union was not ideal, and not the best for the creation of individual
character, but it avoided an exhibition of those public antagonisms which so grieve and disturb
the even flow of the current of society, and give occasion to so much witty comment on the
institution of marriage itself.

When, some two years after Mr. Mavick relinquished the mission to Italy to another statesman
who had done some service to the opposite party, an heiress was born to the house of Mavick,
her appearance in the world occasioned some disappointment to those who had caused it. Mavick
naturally wished a son to inherit his name and enlarge the gold foundation upon which its perpetuity
must rest; and Mrs. Mavick as naturally shrank from a responsibility that promised to curtail
freedom of action in the life she loved. Carmen--it was an old saying of the danglers in the
time of Henderson--was a domestic woman except in her own home.

However, it is one of the privileges of wealth to lighten the cares and duties of maternity,
and the enlarged household was arranged upon a basis that did not interfere with the life of
fashion and the charitable engagements of the mother. Indeed, this adaptable woman soon found
that she had become an object of more than usual interest, by her latest exploit, in the circles
in which she moved, and her softened manner and edifying conversation showed that she appreciated
her position. Even the McTavishes, who were inclined to be skeptical, said that Carmen was
delightful in her new role. This showed that the information Mrs. Mavick got from the women
who took care of her baby was of a kind to touch the hearts of mothers and spinsters.

Moreover, the child was very pretty, and early had winning ways. The nurse, before the baby
was a year old, discovered in her the cleverness of the father and the grace and fascination
of the mother. And it must be said that, if she did not excite passionate affection at first,
she enlisted paternal and maternal pride in her career. It dawned upon both parents that a
daughter might give less cause for anxiety than a son, and that in an heiress there were possibilities
of an alliance that would give great social distinction. Considering, therefore, all that she
represented, and the settled conviction of Mrs. Mavick that she would be the sole inheritor
of the fortune, her safety and education became objects of the greatest anxiety and precaution.

It happened that about the time Evelyn was christened there was a sort of epidemic of stealing
children, and of attempts to rob tombs of occupants who had died rich or distinguished, in
the expectation of a ransom. The newspapers often chronicled mysterious disappearances; parents
whose names were conspicuous suffered great anxiety, and extraordinary precautions were taken
in regard to the tombs of public men. And this was the reason that the heiress of the house
of Mavick became the object of a watchful vigilance that was probably never before exercised
in a republic, and that could only be paralleled in the case of a sole heir-apparent of royalty.

These circumstances resulted in an interference with the laws of nature which it must be confessed
destroyed one of the most interesting studies in heredity that was ever offered to an historian
of social life. What sort of a child had we a right to expect from Thomas Mavick, diplomatist
and operator, successor to the rights and wrongs of Rodney Henderson, and Carmen Mavick, with
the past of Carmen Eschelle and Mrs. Henderson? Those who adhered to the strictest application
of heredity, in considering the natural development of Evelyn Mavick, sought refuge in the
physiological problem of the influence of Rodney Henderson, and declared that something of
his New England sturdiness and fundamental veracity had been imparted to the inheritor of his
great fortune.

But the visible interference took the form of Ann McDonald, a Scotch spinster, to whom was
intrusted the care of Evelyn as soon as she was christened. It was merely a piece of good fortune
that brought a person of the qualifications of Ann McDonald into the family, for it is not
to be supposed that Mrs. Mavick had given any thought to the truth that the important education
of a child begins in its cradle, or that in selecting a care-taker and companion who should
later on be a governess she was consulting her own desire of freedom from the duties of a mother.
It was enough for her that the applicant for the position had the highest recommendations,
that she was prepossessing in appearance, and it was soon perceived that the guardian was truthful,
faithful, vigilant, and of an affectionate disposition and an innate refinement.

Ann McDonald was the only daughter of a clergyman of the Scotch Church, and brought up in the
literary atmosphere common in the most cultivated Edinburgh homes. She had been accurately
educated, and always with the knowledge that her education might be her capital in life. After
the death of her mother, when she was nineteen, she had been her father's housekeeper, and
when in her twenty-fourth year her father relinquished his life and his salary, she decided,
under the advice of influential friends, to try her fortune in America. And she never doubted
that it was a providential guidance that brought her into intimate relations with the infant
heiress. It seemed probable that a woman so attractive and so solidly accomplished would not
very long remain a governess, but in fact her career was chosen from the moment she became
interested in the development of the mind and character of the child intrusted to her care.
It is difficult to see how our modern life would go on as well as it does if there were not
in our homes a good many such faithful souls. It sometimes seems, in this shifting world, that
about the best any of us can do is to prepare some one else for doing something well.

Miss McDonald had a pretty comprehensive knowledge of English literature and history, and,
better perhaps than mere knowledge, a discriminating and cultivated taste. If her religious
education had twisted her view of the fine arts, she had nevertheless a natural sympathy for
the beautiful, and she would not have been a Scotchwoman if she had not had a love for the
romances of her native land and at heart a "ballad" sentiment for the cavaliers. If Evelyn
had been educated by her in Edinburgh, she might have been in sentiment a young Jacobite. She
had through translations a sufficient knowledge of the classics to give her the necessary literary
background, and her study of Latin had led her into the more useful acquisition of French.

If she had been free to indulge her own taste, she would have gone far in natural history,
as was evident from her mastery of botany and her interest in birds.

She inspired so much confidence by her good sense, clear-headedness, and discretion, that almost
from the first Evelyn was confided to her sole care, with only the direction that the baby
was never for an instant, night or day, to be left out of the sight of a trusty attendant.
The nurse was absolutely under her orders, she selected the two maids, and no person except
the parents and the governess could admit visitors to the nursery. This perfect organization
was maintained for many years, and though it came to be relaxed in details, it was literally
true that the heiress was never alone, and never out of the sight of some trusted person responsible
for her safety. But whatever the changes or relaxation, in holidays, amusements, travel, or
education, the person who formed her mind was the one who had taught her to obey, to put words
together into language, and to speak the truth, from infancy.

It is not necessary to consider Ann McDonald as a paragon. She was simply an intelligent, disciplined
woman, with a strong sense of duty. If she had married and gone about the ordinary duties of
life at the age of twenty-four, she would probably have been in no marked way distinguished
among women. Her own development was largely due to the responsibility that was put upon her
in the training of another person. In this sense it was true that she had learned as much as
she had imparted. And in nothing was this more evident than in the range of her literary taste
and judgment. Whatever risks, whatever latitude she might have been disposed to take with regard
to her own mind, she would not take as to the mind of another, and as a consequence her own
standards rose to meet the situation. That is to say, in a conscientious selection of only
the best for Evelyn, she became more fastidious as to the food for her own mind. Or, to put
it in still another way, in regard to character and culture generally, the growth of Miss McDonald
could be measured by that of Evelyn.

When, from the time Evelyn was seven years old, it became necessary in her education to call
in special tutors in the languages and in mathematics, and in certain arts that are generally
called accomplishments, Miss McDonald was always present when the lessons were given, so that
she maintained her ascendency and her influence in the girl's mind. It was this inseparable
companionship, at least in all affairs of the mind, that gave to this educational experiment
an exceptional interest to students of psychology. Nothing could be more interesting than to
come into contact with a mind that from infancy onward had dwelt only upon what is noblest
in literature, and from which had been excluded all that is enervating and degrading. A remarkable
illustration of this is the familiar case of Helen Keller, whose acquisitions, by reason of
her blindness and deafness, were limited to what was selected for her, and that mainly by one
person, and she was therefore for a long time shielded from a knowledge of the evil side of
life. Yet all vital literature is so close to life, and so full of its passion and peril, that
it supplies all the necessary aliment for the growth of a sound, discriminating mind; and that
knowledge of the world, as knowledge of evil is euphemistically called, can be safely left
out of a good education. This may be admitted without going into the discussion whether good
principles and standards in literature and morals are a sufficient equipment for the perils
of life.

This experiment, of course, was limited in Evelyn's case. She came in contact with a great
deal of life. Her little world was fairly representative, for it contained her father, her
mother, her governess, the maids and the servants, and occasional visitors, whom she saw freely
as she grew older. The interesting fact was that she was obliged to judge this world according
to the standards of literature, morals, and manners that had been implanted in her mainly by
the influence of one person. The important part of this experiment of partial exclusion, in
which she was never alone' an experiment undertaken solely for her safety and not for her training-was
seen in her when she became conscious of its abnormal character, and perceived that she was
always under surveillance. It might have made her exceedingly morbid, aside from its effect
of paralyzing her self-confidence and power of initiation, had it not been for the exceptionally
strong and cheerful nature of her companion. A position more hateful, even to a person not
specially socially inclined, cannot be imagined than that of always being watched, and never
having any assured privacy. And under such a tutelage and dependence, how in any event could
she be able to take care of herself? What weapons had this heiress of a great fortune with
which to defend herself? What sort of a girl had this treatment during seventeen years produced?

VIII

To the private apartment of Mr. Mavick, in the evening of the second eventful day, where, over
his after-dinner cigar, he was amusing himself with a French novel, enters, after a little
warning tap, the mistress of the house, for, what was a rare occurrence, a little family chat.

"So you didn't horsewhip and you didn't prosecute. You preferred to wriggle out!"

"Yes," said Mavick, too much pleased with the result to be belligerent, "I let the newspaper
do the wriggling."

"Oh, my dear, I can trust you for that. Have you any idea how it got hold of the details?"

"No; you don't think McDonald--"

"McDonald! I'd as soon suspect myself. So would you."

"Well, everybody knew it already, for that matter. I only wonder that some newspaper didn't
get on to it before. What did Evelyn say?"

"Nothing more than what you heard at dinner. She thought it amusing that there should be such
a crowd to gaze at the house, simply because a picture of it had appeared in a newspaper. She
thought her father must be a very important personage. I didn't undeceive her. At times, you
know, dear, I think so myself."

"Yes, I've noticed that," said Mavick, with a good-natured laugh, in which Carmen joined, "and
those times usually coincide with the times that you want something specially."

"You ought to be ashamed to take me up that way. I just wanted to talk about the coming-out
reception. You know I had come over to your opinion that seventeen was perhaps better than
eighteen, considering Evelyn's maturity. When I was seventeen I was just as good as I am now."

"I don't doubt it," said Mavick, with another laugh.

"But don't you see this affair upsets all our arrangements? It's very vexatious."

"I don't see it exactly. By-the-way, what do you think of the escape suggested by the Spectrum,
in the assertion that you and Evelyn had arranged to go to Europe? The steamer sails tomorrow."

"Think!" exclaimed Carmen. "Do you think I am going to be run, as you call it, by the newspapers?
They run everything else. I'm not politics, I'm not an institution, I'm not even a revolution.
No, I thank you. It answers my purpose for them to say we have gone."

"I suppose you can keep indoors a few days. As to the reception, I had arranged my business
for it. I may be in Mexico or Honolulu the following winter."

"Well, we can't have it now. You see that."

"Carmen, I don't care a rap what the public thinks or says. The child's got to face the world
some time, and look out for herself. I fancy she will not like it as much as you did."

"Very likely. Perhaps I liked it because I had to fight it. Evelyn never will do that."

"She hasn't the least idea what the world is like."

"Don't you be too sure of that, my dear; you don't understand yet what a woman feels and knows.
You think she only sees and thinks what she is told. The conceit of men is most amusing about
this. Evelyn is deeper than you think. The discrimination of that child sometimes positively
frightens me--how she sees into things. It wouldn't surprise me a bit if she actually knew
her father and mother!"

"Then she beats me," said Mavick, with another laugh, "and I've been at it a long time. Carmen,
just for fun, tell me a little about your early life."

"Well"--there was a Madonna-like smile on her lips, and she put out the toe of her slender
foot and appeared to study it for a moment--"I was intended to be a nun."

"Spanish or French?"

"Just a plain nun. But mamma would not hear of it. Mamma was just a bit worldly."

"I never should have suspected it," said Mavick, with equal gravity. "But how did you live
in those early days, way back there?"

"Oh!" and Carmen looked up with the most innocent, open-eyed expression, "we lived on our income."

"Naturally. We all try to do that." The tone in Mavick's voice showed that he gave it up.

"But, of course," and Carmen was lively again, "it's much nicer to have a big income that's
certain than a small one that is uncertain."

"It would seem so."

"Ah, deary me, it's such a world! Don't you think, dear, that we have had enough domestic notoriety
for one year?"

"Quite. It would do for several."

"And we will put it off a year?"

"Arrange as you like." And Mavick stretched up his arms, half yawned, and took up another cigar.

"It will be such a relief to McDonald. She insisted it was too soon." And Carmen whirled out
of her chair, went behind her husband, lifted with her delicate fingers a lock of grayish hair
on his forehead, deposited the lightest kiss there--"Nobody in the world knows how good you
are except me," and was gone.

And the rich man, who had gained everything he wanted in life except happiness, lighted his
cigar and sought refuge in a tale of modern life, that was, however, too much like his own
history to be consoling.

It must not be supposed from what she said that Mrs. Mavick stood in fear of her daughter,
but it was only natural that for a woman of the world the daily contact of a pure mind should
be at times inconvenient. This pure mind was an awful touchstone of conduct, and there was
a fear that Evelyn's ignorance of life would prevent her from making the proper allowances.
In her affectionate and trusting nature, which suspected little evil anywhere, there was no
doubt that her father and mother had her entire confidence and love. But the likelihood was
that she would not be pliant. Under Miss McDonald's influence she had somewhat abstract notions
of what is right and wrong, and she saw no reason why these should not be applied in all cases.
What her mother would have called policy and reasonable concessions she would have given different
names. For getting on in the world, this state of mind has its disadvantages, and in the opinion
of practical men, like Mavick, it was necessary to know good and evil. But it was the girl's
power of discernment that bothered her mother, who used often to wonder where the child came from.

On the other hand, it must not be supposed that the singular training of Evelyn had absolutely
destroyed her inherited tendencies, or made her as she was growing into womanhood anything
but a very real woman, with the reserves, the weaknesses, the coquetries, the defenses which
are the charm of her sex. Nor was she so ignorant of life as such a guarded personality might
be thought. Her very wide range of reading had liberalized her mind, and given her a much wider
outlook upon the struggles and passions and failures and misery of life than many another girl
of her age had gained by her limited personal experience. Those who hold the theory that experience
is the only guide are right as a matter of fact, since every soul seems determined to try for
itself and not to accept the accumulated wisdom of literature or of experienced advisers; but
those who come safely out of their experiences are generally sound by principle which has been
instilled in youth. But it is useless to moralize. Only the event could show whether such an
abnormal training as Evelyn had received was wise.

When Mrs. Mavick went to her daughter's apartments she found Evelyn reading aloud and Miss
McDonald at work on an elaborate piece of Bulgarian embroidery.

"How industrious! What a rebuke to me!"

"I don't see, mamma, how we could be doing less; I've only an audience of one, and she is wasting
her time."

"Well, carissima, it is settled. It's off for a year."

"The reception? Why so?"

"Your father cannot arrange it. He has too much on hand this season, and may be away."

"There, McDonald, we've got a reprieve," and Evelyn gave a sigh of relief.

The Scotch woman smiled, and only said, "Then I shall have time to finish this."

Evelyn jumped up, threw herself into her mother's lap, and began to smooth her hair and pet
her. "I'm awfully glad. I'd ever so much rather stay in than come out. Yes, dear little mother."

"Little?"

"Yes." And the girl pulled her mother from her chair, and made her stand up to measure. "See,
McDonald, almost an inch taller than mamma, and when I do my hair on top!"

"And see, mamma"--the girl was pirouetting on the floor--"I can do those steps you do. Isn't
it Spanish?"

"Rather Spanish-American, I guess. This is the way."

Evelyn clapped her hands. "Isn't that lovely!"

"You are only a little brownie, after all." Her mother was holding her at arm's--length and
studying her critically, wondering if she would ever be handsome.

The girl was slender, but not tall. Her figure had her mother's grace, but not its suggestion
of yielding suppleness. She was an undoubted brunette--complexion olive, hair very dark, almost
black except in the sunlight, and low on her forehead-chin a little strong, and nose piquant
to say the least of it. Certainly features not regular nor classic. The mouth, larger than
her mother's, had full lips, the upper one short, and admirable curves, strong in repose, but
fascinating when she smiled. A face not handsome, but interesting. And the eyes made you hesitate
to say she was not handsome, for they were large, of a dark hazel and changeable, eyes that
flashed with merriment, or fell into sadness under the long eyelashes; and it would not be
safe to say that they could not blaze with indignation. Not a face to go wild about, but when
you felt her character through it, a face very winning in its dark virgin purity.

"I do wonder where she came from?" Mrs. Mavick was saying to herself, as she threw herself
upon a couch in her own room and took up the latest Spanish novel.

IX

Celia Howard had been, in a way, Philip's inspiration ever since the days when they quarreled
and made up on the banks of the Deer field. And a fortunate thing for him it was that in his
callow years there was a woman in whom he could confide. Her sympathy was everything, even
if her advice was not always followed. In the years of student life and preparation they had
not often met, but they were constant and painstaking correspondents. It was to her that he
gave the running chronicle of his life, and poured out his heart and aspirations. Unconsciously
he was going to school to a woman, perhaps the most important part of his education. For, though
in this way he might never hope to understand woman, he was getting most valuable knowledge
of himself.

As a guide, Philip was not long in discovering that Celia was somewhat uncertain. She kept
before him a very high ideal; she expected him to be distinguished and successful, but, her
means varied from time to time. Now she would have him take one path and now another. And Philip
learned to read in this varying advice the changes in her own experience. There was a time
when she hoped he would be a great scholar: there was no position so noble as that of a university
professor or president. Then she turned short round and extolled the business life: get money,
get a position, and then you can study, write books, do anything you like and be independent.
Then came a time--this was her last year in college--when science seemed the only thing. That
was really a benefit to mankind: create something, push discovery, dispel ignorance.

"Why, Phil, if you could get people to understand about ventilation, the necessity of pure
air, you would deserve a monument. And, besides--this is an appeal to your lower nature--science
is now the thing that pays." Theology she never considered; that was just now too uncertain
in its direction. Law she had finally approved; it was still respectable; it was a very good
waiting-ground for many opportunities, and it did not absolutely bar him from literature, for
which she perceived he had a sneaking fondness.

Philip wondered if Celia was not thinking of the law for herself. She had tried teaching, she
had devoted herself for a time to work in a College Settlement, she had learned stenography,
she had talked of learning telegraphy, she had been interested in women's clubs, in a civic
club, in the political education of women, and was now a professor of economics in a girl's
college.

It finally dawned upon Philip, who was plodding along, man fashion, in one of the old ruts,
feeling his way, like a true American, into the career that best suited him, that Celia might
be a type of the awakened American woman, who does not know exactly what she wants. To be sure,
she wants everything. She has recently come into an open place, and she is distracted by the
many opportunities. She has no sooner taken up one than she sees another that seems better,
or more important in the development of her sex, and she flies to that. But nothing, long,
seems the best thing. Perhaps men are in the way, monopolizing all the best things. Celia had
never made a suggestion of this kind, but Philip thought she was typical of the women who push
individualism so far as never to take a dual view of life.

"I have just been," Celia wrote in one of her letters, when she was an active club woman, "out
West to a convention of the Federation of Women's Clubs. Such a striking collection of noble,
independent women! Handsome, lots of them, and dressed--oh, my friend, dress is still a part
of it! So different from a man's convention! Cranks? Yes, a few left over. It was a fine, inspiring
meeting. But, honestly, I could not exactly make out what they were federating about, and what
they were going to do when they got federated. It sort of came over me, I am such a weak sister,
that there is such a lot of work done in this world with no object except the doing of it."

A more recent letter:--"Do you remember Aunt Hepsy, who used to keep the little thread-and-needle
and candy shop in Rivervale? Such a dear, sweet, contented old soul! Always a smile and a good
word for every customer. I can see her now, picking out the biggest piece of candy in the dish
that she could afford to give for a little fellow's cent. It never came over me until lately
how much good that old woman did in the world. I remember what a comfort it was to go and talk
with her. Well, I am getting into a frame of mind to want to be an Aunt Hepsy. There is so
much sawdust in everything--No, I'm not low-spirited. I'm just philosophical--I've a mind to
write a life of Aunt Hepsy, and let the world see what a real useful life is."

And here is a passage from the latest:--"What an interesting story your friend--I hope he isn't
you friend, for I don't half like him--has made out of that Mavick girl! If I were the girl's
mother I should want to roast him over the coals. Is there any truth in it?

"Of course I read it, as everybody did and read the crawl out, and looked for more. So it is
partly our fault, but what a shame it is, the invasion of family life! Do tell me, if you happen
to see her--the girl--driving in the Park or anywhere--of course you never will--what she looks
like. I should like to see an unsophisticated millionaire-ess! But it is an awfully interesting
problem, invented or not I'm pretty deep in psychology these days, and I'd give anything to
come in contact with that girl. You would just see a woman, and you wouldn't know. I'd see
a soul. Dear me, if I'd only had the chance of that Scotch woman! Don't you see, if we could
only get to really know one mind and soul, we should know it all. I mean scientifically. I
know what you are thinking, that all women have that chance. What you think is impertinent--to
the subject."

Indeed, the story of Evelyn interested everybody. It was taken up seriously in the country
regions. It absorbed New York gossip for two days, and then another topic took possession of
the mercurial city; but it was the sort of event to take possession of the country mind. New
York millionaires get more than their share of attention in the country press at all times,
but this romance became the subject of household talk and church and sewing-circle gossip,
and all the women were eager for more details, and speculated endlessly about the possible
character and career of the girl.

Alice wrote Philip from Rivervale that her aunt Patience was very much excited by it. "'The
poor thing,' she said, 'always to have somebody poking round, seeing every blessed thing you
do or don't do; it would drive me crazy. There is that comfort in not having anything much--you
have yourself. You tell Philip that I hope he doesn't go there often. I've no objection to
his being kind to the poor thing when they meet, and doing neighborly things, but I do hope
he won't get mixed up with that set.' It is very amusing," Alice continued, "to hear Patience
soliloquize about it and construct the whole drama.

"But you cannot say, Philip, that you are not warned (!) and you know that Patience is almost
a prophet in the way she has of putting things together. Celia was here recently looking after
the little house that has been rented ever since the death of her mother. I never saw her look
so well and handsome, and yet there was a sort of air about her as if she had been in public
a good deal and was quite capable of taking care of herself. But she was that way when she
was little.

"I think she is a good friend of yours. Well, Phil, if you do ever happen to see that Evelyn
in the opera, or anywhere, tell me how she looks and what she has on--if you can."

The story had not specially interested Philip, except as it was connected with Brad's newspaper
prospects, but letters, like those referred to, received from time to time, began to arouse
a personal interest. Of course merely a psychological interest, though the talk here and there
at dinner-tables stimulated his desire, at least, to see the subject of them. But in this respect
he was to be gratified, in the usual way things desired happen in life--that is, by taking
pains to bring them about.

When Mr. Brad came back from his vacation his manner had somewhat changed. He had the air of
a person who stands on firm ground. He felt that he was a personage. He betrayed this in a
certain deliberation of speech, as if any remark from him now might be important. In a way
he felt himself related to public affairs.

In short, he had exchanged the curiosity of the reporter for the omniscience of the editor.
And for a time Philip was restrained from intruding the subject of the Mavick sensation. However,
one day after dinner he ventured:

"I see, Mr. Brad, that your hit still attracts attention." Mr. Brad looked inquiringly blank.

"I mean about the millionaire heiress. It has excited a wide interest."

"Ah, that! Yes, it gave me a chance," replied Brad, who was thinking only of himself.

"I've had several letters about it from the country."

"Yes? Well, I suppose," said Brad, modestly, "that a little country notoriety doesn't hurt
a person."

Philip did not tell his interlocutor that, so far as he knew, nobody in the country had ever
heard the name of Olin Brad, or knew there was such a person in existence. But he went on:

"Certainly. And, besides, there is a great curiosity to know about the girl. Did you ever see her?"

"Only in public. I don't know Mavick personally, and for reasons," and Mr. Brad laughed in
a superior manner. "It's easy enough to see her."

"How?"

"Watch out for a Wagner night, and go to the opera. You'll see where Mavick's box is in the
bill. She is pretty sure to be there, and her mother. There is nothing special about her; but
her mother is still a very fascinating woman, I can tell you. You'll find her sure on a 'Carmen'
night, but not so sure of the girl."

On this suggestion Philip promptly acted. The extra expense of an orchestra seat he put down
to his duty to keep his family informed of anything that interested them in the city. It was
a "Siegfried" night, and a full house. To describe it all would be very interesting to Alice.
The Mavick box was empty until the overture was half through. Then appeared a gentleman who
looked as if he were performing a public duty, a lady who looked as if she were receiving a
public welcome, and seated between them a dark, slender girl, who looked as if she did not
see the public at all, but only the orchestra.

Behind them, in the shadow, a middle-aged woman in plainer attire. It must be the Scotch governess.
Mrs. Mavick had her eyes everywhere about the house, and was graciously bowing to her friends.
Mr. Mavick coolly and unsympathetically regarded the house, quite conscious of it, but as if
he were a little bored. You could not see him without being aware that he was thinking of other
things, probably of far-reaching schemes. People always used to say of Mavick, when he was
young and a clerk in a Washington bureau, that he looked omniscient. At least the imagination
of spectators invested him with a golden hue, and regarded him through the roseate atmosphere
that surrounds a many-millioned man. The girl had her eyes always on the orchestra, and was
waiting for the opening of the world that lay behind the drop-curtain. Philip noticed that
all the evening Mrs. Mavick paid very little attention to the stage, except when the rest of
the house was so dark that she could distinguish little in it.

Fortunately for Philip, in his character of country reporter, the Mavick box was near the stage,
and he could very well see what was going on in it, without wholly distracting his attention
from Wagner's sometimes very dimly illuminated creation.

There are faces and figures that compel universal attention and admiration. Commonly there
is one woman in a theatre at whom all glances are leveled. It is a mystery why one face makes
only an individual appeal, and an appeal much stronger than that of one universally admired.
The house certainly concerned itself very little about the shy and dark heiress in the Mavick
box, having with regard to her only a moment's curiosity. But the face instantly took hold
of Philip. He found it more interesting to read the play in her face than on the stage. He
seemed instantly to have established a chain of personal sympathy with her. So intense was
his regard that it seemed as if she must, if there is anything in the telepathic theory of
the interchange of feeling, have been conscious of it. That she was, however, unconscious of
any influence reaching her except from the stage was perfectly evident. She was absorbed in
the drama, even when the drama was almost lost in darkness, and only an occasional grunting
ejaculation gave evidence that there was at least animal life responsive to the continual pleading,
suggesting, inspiring strains of the orchestra. In the semi-gloom and groping of the under-world,
it would seem that the girl felt that mystery of life which the instruments were trying to
interpret.

At any rate, Philip could see that she was rapt away into that other world of the past, to
a practical unconsciousness of her immediate surroundings. Was it the music or the poetic idea
that held her? Perhaps only the latter, for it is Wagner's gift to reach by his creations those
who have little technical knowledge of music. At any rate, she was absorbed, and so perfectly
was the progress of the drama repeated in her face that Philip, always with the help of the
orchestra, could trace it there.

But presently something more was evident to this sympathetic student of her face. She was not
merely discovering the poet's world, she was finding out herself. As the drama unfolded, Philip
was more interested in this phase than in the observation of her enjoyment and appreciation.
To see her eyes sparkle and her cheeks glow with enthusiasm during the sword-song was one thing,
but it was quite another when Siegfried began his idyl, that nature and bird song of the awakening
of the whole being to the passion of love. Then it was that Evelyn's face had a look of surprise,
of pain, of profound disturbance; it was suffused with blushes, coming and going in passionate
emotion; the eyes no longer blazed, but were softened in a melting tenderness of sympathy,
and her whole person seemed to be carried into the stream of the great life passion. When it
ceased she sank back in her seat, and blushed still more, as if in fear that some one had discovered
her secret.

Afterwards, when Philip had an opportunity of knowing Evelyn Mavick, and knowing her very well,
and to some extent having her confidence, he used to say to himself that he had little to learn--the
soul of the woman was perfectly revealed to him that night of "Siegfried."

As the curtain went down, Mrs. Mavick, whose attention had not been specially given to the
artists before, was clapping her hands in a great state of excitement.

"Why don't you applaud, child?"

"Oh, mother," was all the girl could say, with heaving breast and downcast eyes.

X

All winter long that face seemed to get between Philip and his work. It was an inspiration
to his pen when it ran in the way of literature, but a distinct damage to progress in his profession.
He had seen Evelyn again, more than once, at the opera, and twice been excited by a passing
glimpse of her on a crisp, sunny afternoon in the Mavick carriage in the Park-always the same
bright, eager face. So vividly personal was the influence upon him that it seemed impossible
that she should not be aware of it--impossible that she could not know there was such a person
in the world as Philip Burnett.

Fortunately youth can create its own world. Between the secluded daughter of millions and the
law clerk was a great gulf, but this did not prevent Evelyn's face, and, in moments of vanity,
Evelyn herself, from belonging to Philip's world. He would have denied--we have a habit of
lying to ourselves quite as much as to others--that he ever dreamed of possessing her, but
nevertheless she entered into his thoughts and his future in a very curious way. If he saw
himself a successful lawyer, her image appeared beside him. If his story should gain the public
attention, and his occasional essays come to be talked of, it was Evelyn's interest and approval
that he caught himself thinking about. And he had a conviction that she was one to be much
more interested in him as a man of letters than as a lawyer. This might be true. In Philip's
story, which was very slowly maturing, the heroine fell in love with a young man simply for
himself, and regardless of the fact that he was poor and had his career to make. But he knew
that if his novel ever got published the critics would call it a romance, and not a transcript
of real life. Had not women ceased to be romantic and ceased to indulge in vagaries of affection?

Was it that Philip was too irresolute to cut either law or literature, and go in, single-minded,
for a fortune of some kind, and a place? Or was it merely that he had confidence in the winning
character of his own qualities and was biding his time? If it was a question of making himself
acceptable to a woman--say a woman like Evelyn--was it not belittling to his own nature to
plan to win her by what he could make rather than by what he was?

Probably the vision he had of Evelyn counted for very little in his halting decision. "Why
don't you put her into a novel?" asked Mr. Brad one evening. The suggestion was a shock. Philip
conveyed the idea pretty plainly that he hadn't got so low as that yet. "Ah, you fellows think
you must make your own material. You are higher-toned than old Dante." The fact was that Philip
was not really halting. Every day he was less and less in love with the law as it was practiced,
and, courting reputation, he would much rather be a great author than a great lawyer. But he
kept such thoughts to himself. He had inherited a very good stock of common-sense. Apparently
he devoted himself to his office work, and about the occupation of his leisure hours no one
was in his confidence except Celia, and now and then, when he got something into print, Alice.
Professedly Celia was his critic, but really she was the necessary appreciator, for probably
most writers would come to a standstill if there was no sympathetic soul to whom they could
communicate, while they were fresh, the teeming fancies of their brains.

The winter wore along without any incident worth recording, but still fruitful for the future,
as Philip fondly hoped. And one day chance threw in his way another sensation. Late in the
afternoon of a spring day he was sent from the office to Mavick's house with a bundle of papers
to be examined and signed.

"You will be pretty sure to find him," said Mr. Sharp, "at home about six. Wait till you do
see him. The papers must be signed and go to Washington by the night mail."

Mr. Mavick was in his study, and received Philip very civilly, as the messenger of his lawyers,
and was soon busy in examining the documents, flinging now and then a short question to Philip,
who sat at the table near him.

Suddenly there was a tap at the door, and, not waiting for a summons, a young girl entered,
and stopped after a couple of steps.

"Oh, I didn't know--"

"What is it, dear?" said Mr. Mavick, looking up a moment, and then down at the papers.

"Why, about the coachman's baby. I thought perhaps--" She had a paper in her hand, and advanced
towards the table, and then stopped, seeing that her father was not alone.

Philip rose involuntarily. Mr. Mavick looked up quickly. "Yes, presently. I've just now got
a little business with Mr. Burnett."

It was not an introduction. But for an instant the eyes of the young people met. It seemed
to Philip that it was a recognition. Certainly the full, sweet eyes were bent on him for the
second she stood there, before turning away and leaving the room. And she looked just as true
and sweet as Philip dreamed she would look at home. He sat in a kind of maze for the quarter
of an hour while Mavick was affixing his signature and giving some directions. He heard all
the directions, and carried away the papers, but he also carried away something else unknown
to the broker. After all, he found himself reflecting, as he walked down the avenue, the practice
of the law has its good moments!

What was there in this trivial incident that so magnified it in Philip's mind, day after day?
Was it that he began to feel that he had established a personal relation with Evelyn because
she had seen him? Nothing had really happened. Perhaps she had not heard his name, perhaps
she did not carry the faintest image of him out of the room with her. Philip had read in romances
of love at first sight, and he had personal experience of it. Commonly, in romances, the woman
gives no sign of it, does not admit it to herself, denies it in her words and in her conduct,
and never owns it until the final surrender. "When was the first moment you began to love me,
dear?" "Why, the first moment, that day; didn't you know it then?" This we are led to believe
is common experience with the shy and secretive sex. It is enough, in a thousand reported cases,
that he passed her window on horseback, and happened to look her way. But with such a look!
The mischief was done. But this foundation was too slight for Philip to build such a hope on.

Looking back, we like to trace great results to insignificant, momentary incidents--a glance,
a word, that turned the current of a life. There was a definite moment when the thought came
to Alexander that he would conquer the world! Probably there was no such moment. The great
Alexander was restless, and at no initial instant did he conceive his scheme of conquest. Nor
was it one event that set him in motion. We confound events with causes. It happened on such
a day. Yes, but it might have happened on another. But if Philip had not been sent on that
errand to Mavick probably Evelyn would never have met him. What nonsense this is, and what
an unheroic character it makes Philip! Is it supposable that, with such a romance as he had
developed about the girl, he would not some time have come near her, even if she had been locked
up with all the bars and bolts of a safety deposit?

The incident of this momentary meeting was, however, of great consequence. There is no such
feeder of love as the imagination. And fortunate it was for Philip that his romance was left
to grow in the wonder-working process of his own mind. At first there had been merely a curiosity
in regard to a person whose history and education had been peculiar. Then the sight of her
had raised a strange tumult in his breast, and his fancy began to play about her image, seen
only at a distance and not many times, until his imagination built up a being of surpassing
loveliness, and endowed with all the attractions that the poets in all ages have given to the
sex that inspires them. But this sort of creation in the mind becomes vague, and related to
literature only, unless it is sustained by some reality. Even Petrarch must occasionally see
Laura at the church door, and dwell upon the veiled dreamer that passed and perhaps paused
a moment to regard him with sad eyes. Philip, no doubt, nursed a genuine passion, which grew
into an exquisite ideal in the brooding of a poetic mind, but it might in time have evaporated
into thin air, remaining only as an emotional and educational experience. But this moment in
Mr. Mavick's library had given a solid body to his imaginations, and a more definite turn to
his thought of her.

If, in some ordinary social chance, Philip had encountered the heiress, without this previous
wonderworking of his imagination in regard to her, the probability is that he would have seen
nothing especially to distinguish her from the other girls of her age and newness in social
experience. Certainly the thought that she was the possessor of uncounted millions would have
been, on his side, an insuperable barrier to any advance. But the imagination works wonders
truly, and Philip saw the woman and not the heiress. She had become now a distinct personality;
to be desired above all things on earth, and that he should see her again he had no doubt.

This thought filled his mind, and even when he was not conscious of it gave a sort of color
to life, refined his perceptions, and gave him almost sensuous delight in the masterpieces
of poetry which had formerly appealed only to his intellectual appreciation of beauty.

He had not yet come to a desire to share his secret with any confidant, but preferred to be
much alone and muse on it, creating a world which was without evil, without doubt, undisturbed
by criticism. In this so real dream it was the daily office work that seemed unreal, and the
company and gossip of his club a kind of vain show. He began to frequent the picture-galleries,
where there was at least an attempt to express sentiment, and to take long walks to the confines
of the city-confines fringed with all the tender suggestions of the opening spring. Even the
monotonous streets which he walked were illumined in his eyes, glorified by the fullness of
life and achievement. "Yes," he said again and again, as he stood on the Heights, in view of
the river, the green wall of Jersey and the great metropolis spread away to the ocean gate,
"it is a beautiful city! And the critics say it is commonplace and vulgar." Dear dreamer, it
is a beautiful city, and for one reason and another a million of people who have homes there
think so. But take out of it one person, and it would have for you no more interest than any
other huge assembly of ugly houses. How, in a lover's eyes, the woman can transfigure a city,
a landscape, a country!

Celia had come up to town for the spring exhibitions, and was lodging at the Woman's Club.
Naturally Philip saw much of her, indeed gave her all his time that the office did not demand.
Her company was always for him a keen delight, an excitement, and in its way a rest. For though
she always criticised, she did not nag, and just because she made no demands, nor laid any
claims on him, nor ever reproached him for want of devotion, her society was delightful and
never dull. They dined together at the Woman's Club, they experimented on the theatres, they
visited the galleries and the picture-shops, they took little excursions into the suburbs and
came back impressed with the general cheapness and shabbiness, and they talked--talked about
all they saw, all they had read, and something of what they thought. What was wanting to make
this charming camaraderie perfect? Only one thing.

It may have occurred to Philip that Celia had not sufficient respect for his opinions; she
regarded them simply as opinions, not as his.

One afternoon, in the Metropolitan Picture-Gallery, Philip had been expressing enthusiasm for
some paintings that Celia thought more sentimental than artistic, and this reminded her that
he was getting into a general way of admiring everything.

"You didn't use, Philip, to care so much for pictures."

"Oh, I've been seeing more."

"But you don't say you like that? Look at the drawing."

"Well, it tells the story."

"A story is nothing; it's the way it's told. This is not well told."

"It pleases me. Look at that girl."

"Yes, she is domestic. I admit that. But I'm not sure I do not prefer an impressionistic girl,
whom you can't half see, to such a thorough bread-and-butter miss as this."

"Which would you rather live with?"

"I'm not obliged to live with either. In fact, I'd rather live with myself. If it's art, I
want art; if it's cooking and sewing, I want cooking and sewing. If the artist knew enough,
he'd paint a woman instead of a cook."

"Then you don't care for real life?"

"Real life! There is no such thing. You are demonstrating that. You transform this uninteresting
piece of domesticity into an ideal woman, ennobling her surroundings. She doesn't do it. She
is level with them."

"It would be a dreary world if we didn't idealize things."

"So it would. And that is what I complain of in such 'art' as this. I don't know what has got
into you, Phil. I never saw you so exuberant. You are pleased with everything. Have you had
a rise in the office? Have you finished your novel?"

"Neither. No rise. No novel. But Tweedle is getting friendly. Threw an extra job in my way
the other day. Do you think I'd better offer my novel, when it is done, to Tweedle?"

"Tweedle, indeed!"

"Well, one of our clients is one of the great publishing firms, and Tweedle often dines with
the publisher."

"For shame, Phil!"

Philip laughed. "At any rate, that is no meaner than a suggestion of Brad's. He says if I will
just weave into it a lot of line scenery, and set my people traveling on the great trunk, stopping
off now and then at an attractive branch, the interested railroads would gladly print it and
scatter it all over the country."

"No doubt," said Celia, sinking down upon a convenient seat. "I begin to feel as if there were
no protection for anything. And, Phil, that great monster of a Mavick, who is eating up the
country, isn't he a client also?"

"Occasionally only. A man like Mavick has his own lawyers and judges."

"Did you ever see him?"

"Just glimpses."

"And that daughter of his, about whom such a fuss was made, I suppose you never met her?"

"Oh, as I wrote you, at the opera; saw her in her box."

"And--?"

"Oh, she's rather a little thing; rather dark, I told you that; seems devoted to music."

"And you didn't tell what she wore."

"Why, what they all wear. Something light and rather fluffy."

"Just like a man. Is she pretty?"

"Ye-e-s; has that effect. You'd notice her eyes." If Philip had been frank he would have answered,

"I don't know. She's simply adorable," and Celia would have understood all about it.

"And probably doesn't know anything. Yes, highly educated? I heard that. But I'm getting tired
of 'highly educated'; I see so many of them. I've been making them now for years. Perhaps I'm
one of them. And where am I? Don't interrupt. I tell you it is a relief to come across a sweet,
womanly ignoramus. What church does she go to?"

"Who?"

"That Mavick girl."

"St. Thomas', I believe."

"That's good--that's devotional. I suppose you go there too, being brought up a Congregationalist?"

"At vespers, sometimes. But, Celia, what is the matter with you? I thought you didn't care--didn't
care to belong to anything?"

"I? I belong to everything. Didn't I write you reams about my studies in psychology? I've come
to one conclusion. There are only two persons in the world who stand on a solid foundation,
the Roman Catholic and the Agnostic. The Roman Catholic knows everything, the Agnostic doesn't
know anything."

Philip was never certain when the girl was bantering him; nor, when she was in earnest, how
long she would remain in that mind and mood. So he ventured, humorously:

"The truth is, Celia, that you know too much to be either. You are what they call emancipated."

"Emancipated!" And Celia sat up energetically, as if she were now really interested in the
conversation. "Become the slave of myself instead of the slave of somebody else! That's the
most hateful thing to be, emancipated. I never knew a woman who said she was emancipated who
wasn't in some ridiculous folly or another. Now, Phil, I'm going to tell you something. I can
tell you. You know I've been striving to have a career, to get out of myself somehow, and have
a career for myself. Well, today--mind, I don't say tomorrow"--(and there was a queer little
smile on her lips)--"I think I will just try to be good to people and things in general, in
a human way."

"And give up education?"

"No, no. I get my living by education, just as you do, or hope to do, by law or by letters;
it's all the same. But wait. I haven't finished what I was going to say. The more I go into
psychology, trying to find out about my mind and mind generally, the more mysterious everything
is. Do you know, Phil, that I'm getting into the supernatural? You can't help running into
it. For me, I am not side-tracked by any of the nonsense about magnetism and telepathy and
mind-reading and other psychic imponderabilities. Isn't it queer that the further we go into
science the deeper we go into mystery?

"Now, don't be shocked, I mean it reverently, just as an illustration. Do you think any one
knows really anything more about the operation in the world of electricity than he does about
the operation of the Holy Ghost? And yet people talk about science as if it were something
they had made themselves."

"But, Celia--"

"No, I've talked enough. We are in this world and not in some other, and I have to make my
living. Let's go into the other room and see the old masters. They, at least, knew how to paint--to
paint passion and character; some of them could paint soul. And then, Phil, I shall be hungry.
Talking about the mind always makes me hungry."

XI

Philip was always welcome at his uncle's house in Rivervale. It was, of course, his home during
his college life, and since then he was always expected for his yearly holiday. The women of
the house made much of him, waited on him, deferred to him, petted him, with a flattering mingling
of tenderness to a little boy and the respect due to a man who had gone into the world. Even
Mr. Maitland condescended to a sort of equality in engaging Philip in conversation about the
state of the country and the prospects of business in New York.

It was July. When Philip went to sleep at night--he was in the front chamber reserved for guests--the
loud murmur of the Deerfield was in his ears, like a current bearing him away into sweet sleep
and dreams in a land of pleasant adventures. Only in youth come such dreams. Later on the sophisticated
mind, left to its own guidance in the night, wanders amid the complexities of life, calling
up in confusion scenes long forgotten or repented of, images only registered by a sub-conscious
process, dreams to perplex, irritate, and excite.

In the morning the same continuous murmur seemed to awake him into a peaceful world. Through
the open window came in the scents of summer, the freshness of a new day. How sweet and light
was the air! It was indeed the height of summer. The corn, not yet tasseled, stood in green
flexible ranks, moved by the early breeze. In the river-meadows haying had just begun. Fields
of timothy and clover, yellowing to ripeness, took on a fresh bloom from the dew, and there
was an odor of new-mown grass from the sections where the scythes had been. He heard the call
of the crow from the hill, the melody of the bobolink along the meadow-brook; indeed, the birds
of all sorts were astir, skimming along the ground or rising to the sky, keeping watch especially
over the garden and the fruit-trees, carrying food to their nests, or teaching their young
broods to fly and to chirp the songs of summer. And from the woodshed the shrill note of the
scythe under the action of the grindstone. No such vivid realization of summer as that.

Philip stole out the unused front door without disturbing the family. Whither? Where would
a boy be likely to go the first thing? To the barn, the great cavernous barn, its huge doors
now wide open, the stalls vacant, the mows empty, the sunlight sifting in through the high
shadowy spaces. How much his life had been in that barn! How he had stifled and scrambled mowing
hay in those lofts! On the floor he had hulled heaps of corn, thrashed oats with a flail--a
noble occupation--and many a rainy day had played there with girls and boys who could not now
exactly describe the games or well recall what exciting fun they were. There were the racks
where he put the fodder for cattle and horses, and there was the cutting-machine for the hay
and straw and for slicing the frozen turnips on cold winter mornings.

In the barn-yard were the hens, just as usual, walking with measured step, scratching and picking
in the muck, darting suddenly to one side with an elevated wing, clucking, chattering, jabbering
endlessly about nothing. They did not seem to mind him as he stood in the open door. But the
rooster, in his oriental iridescent plumage, jumped upon a fence-post and crowed defiantly,
in warning that this was his preserve. They seemed like the same hens, yet Philip knew they
were all strangers; all the hens and flaunting roosters he knew had long ago gone to Thanksgiving.
The hen is, or should be, an annual. It is never made a pet. It forms no attachments. Man is
no better acquainted with the hen, as a being, than he was when the first chicken was hatched.
Its business is to live a brief chicken life, lay, and be eaten. And this reminded Philip that
his real occupation was hunting hens' eggs. And this he did, in the mows, in the stalls, under
the floor-planks, in every hidden nook. The hen's instinct is to be orderly, and have a secluded
nest of her own, and bring up a family. But in such a communistic body it is a wise hen who
knows her own chicken. Nobody denies to the hen maternal instincts or domestic proclivities,
but what an ill example is a hen community!

And then Philip climbed up the hill, through the old grass-plot and the orchard, to the rocks
and the forest edge, and the great view. It had more meaning to him than when he was a boy,
and it was more beautiful. In a certain peaceful charm, he had seen nothing anywhere in the
world like it. Partly this was because his boyish impressions, the first fresh impressions
of the visible world, came back to him; but surely it was very beautiful. More experienced
travelers than Philip felt its unique charm.

When he descended, Alice was waiting to breakfast with him. Mrs. Maitland declared, with an
approving smile on her placid, aging face, that he was the same good-for-nothing boy. But Alice
said, as she sat down to the little table with Philip, "It is different, mother, with us city
folks." They were in the middle room, and the windows opened to the west upon the river-meadows
and the wooded hills beyond, and through one a tall rose-bush was trying to thrust its fragrant
bloom.

What a dainty breakfast! Alice flushed with pleasure. It was so good of him to come to them.
Had he slept well? Did it seem like home at all? Philip's face showed that it was home without
the need of saying so. Such coffee-yes, a real aroma of the berry! Just a little more, would
he have? And as Alice raised the silver pitcher, there was a deep dimple in her sweet cheek.
How happy she was! And then the butter, so fresh and cool, and the delicious eggs--by the way,
he had left a hatful in the kitchen as he came in. Alice explained that she did not make the
eggs. And then there was the journey, the heat in the city, the grateful sight of the Deerfield,
the splendid morning, the old barn, the watering-trough, the view from the hill everything
just as it used to be.

"Dear Phil, it is so nice to have you here," and there were tears in Alice's eyes, she was
so happy.

After breakfast Philip strolled down the country road through the village. How familiar was
every step of the way!--the old houses jutting out at the turns in the road; the glimpse of
the river beyond the little meadow where Captain Rice was killed; the spring under the ledge
over which the snap-dragon grew; the dilapidated ranks of fence smothered in vines and fireweeds;
the cottages, with flower-pots in front; the stores, with low verandas ornamented with boxes
and barrels; the academy in its green on the hill; the old bridge over which the circus elephant
dared not walk; the new and the old churches, with rival steeples; and, not familiar, the new inn.

And he knew everybody, young and old, at doorways, in the fields or gardens, and had for every
one a hail and a greeting. How he enjoyed it all, and his self-consciousness added to his pleasure,
as he swung along in his well-fitting city clothes, broad-shouldered and erect--it is astonishing
how much a tailor can do for a man who responds to his efforts. It is a pleasure to come across
such a hero as this in real life, and not have to invent him, as the saying is, out of the
whole cloth. Philip enjoyed the world, and he enjoyed himself, because it was not quite his
old self, the farmer's boy going on an errand. There must be knowledge all along the street
that he was in the great law office of Hunt, Sharp & Tweedle. And, besides, Philip's name must
be known to all the readers of magazines in the town as a writer, a name in more than one list
of "contributors." That was fame. Translated, however, into country comprehension it was something
like this, if he could have heard the comments after he had passed by:

"Yes, that's Phil Burnett, sure enough; but I'd hardly know him; spruced up mightily. I wonder
what he's at?"

"I heard he was down in New York trying to law it. I heard he's been writin' some for newspapers.
Accordin' to his looks, must pay a durn sight better'n farmin'."

"Well, I always said that boy wa'n't no skeezics."

Almost the first question Philip asked Alice on his return was about the new inn, the Peacock Inn.

"There seemed a good deal of stir about it as I passed."

"Why, I forgot to tell you about it. It's the great excitement. Rivervale is getting known.
The Mavicks are there. I hear they've taken pretty much the whole of it."

"The Mavicks?

"Yes, the New York Mavicks, that you wrote us about, that were in the paper."

"How long have they been there?"

"A week. There is Mrs. Mavick and her daughter, and the governess, and two maids, and a young
fellow in uniform--yes, livery--and a coachman in the same, and a stableful of horses and carriages.
It upset the village like a circus. And they say there's a French chef in white cap and apron,
who comes to the side-door and jabbers to the small boys like fireworks."

"How did it come about?"

"Naturally, I guess; a city family wanting a quiet place for summer in the country. But you
will laugh. Patience first discovered it. One day, sitting at the window, she saw a two-horse
buggy driven by the landlord of the Peacock, and a gentleman by his side. 'Well, I wonder who
that is-city man certainly. And wherever is he going? May be a railroad man. But there is nothing
the matter with the railroad. Shouldn't wonder if he is going to see the tunnel. If it was
just that, the landlord wouldn't drive him; he'd send a man. And they keep stopping and pointing
and looking round. No, it isn't the railroad, it's scenery. And what can a man like that want
with scenery?

"He does look like a railroad man. It may be tunnel, but it isn't all tunnel. When the team
came back in the afternoon, Patience was again at the window; she had heard meantime from Jabez
that a city man was stopping at the Peacock. There he goes, and looking round more than ever.
They've stopped by the bridge and the landlord is pointing out. It's not tunnel, it's scenery.
I tell you, he is a city boarder. Not that he cares about scenery; it's for his family. City
families are always trying to find a grand new place, and he has heard of Rivervale and the
Peacock Inn. Maybe the tunnel had something to do with it."

"Why, it's like second sight."

"No, Patience says it's just judgment. And she generally hits it. At any rate, the family is here."

The explanation of their being there--it seemed to Philip providential--was very simple. Mr.
Mavick had plans about the Hoosac Tunnel that required him to look at it. Mrs. Mavick took
advantage of this to commission him to look at a little inn in a retired village of which she
had heard, and to report on scenery and climate. Warm days and cool nights and simplicity was
her idea. Mavick reported that the place seemed made for the family.

Evelyn was not yet out, but she was very nearly out, and after the late notoriety Mrs. Mavick
dreaded the regular Newport season. And, in the mood of the moment, she was tired of the Newport
palace. She always said that she liked simplicity--a common failing among people who are not
compelled to observe it. Perhaps she thought she was really fond of rural life and country
ways. As she herself said,

"If you have a summer cottage at Newport or Lenox, it is necessary to go off somewhere and
rest." And then it would be good for Evelyn to live out-of-doors and see the real country,
and, as for herself, as she looked in the mirror, "I shall drink milk and go to bed early.
Henderson used to say that a month in New Hampshire made another woman of me."

Oh, to find a spot where we could be undisturbed, alone and unknown. That was the program.
But Carmen simply could not be anywhere content if she were unnoticed. It was not so easy to
give up daily luxury, and habits of ease at the expense of attendants, or the ostentation which
had become a second nature. Therefore the "establishment" went along with her to Rivervale,
and the shy, modest little woman, who had dropped down into the country simplicity that she
so dearly loved, greatly enjoyed the sensation that her coming produced. It needed no effort
on her part to produce the sensation. The carriage, and coachman and footman in livery, would
have been sufficient; and then the idea of one family being rich enough to take the whole hotel!

The liveries, the foreign cook in his queer cap and apron, and all the goings-on at the Peacock
were the inexhaustible topic of talk in every farmhouse for ten miles around. Rivervale was
a self-respecting town, and principled against luxury and self-indulgence, and judged with
a just and severe judgment the world of fashion and of the grasping, wicked millionaires. And
now this world with all its vain show had plumped down in the midst of them. Those who had
traveled and seen the ostentation of cities smiled a superior smile at the curiosity and wonder
exhibited, but even those who had never seen the like were cautious about letting their surprise
appear. Especially in the presence of fashion and wealth would the independent American citizen
straighten his backbone, reassuring himself that he was as good as anybody. To be sure, people
flew to windows when the elegant equipage dashed by, and everybody found frequent occasion
to drive or walk past the Peacock Inn. It was only the novelty of it, in a place that rather
lacked novelties.

And yet there prevailed in the community a vague sense that millions were there, and a curious
expectation of some individual benefit from them. All the young berry-pickers were unusually
active, and poured berries into the kitchen door of the inn. There was not a housewife who
was not a little more anxious about the product of her churning; not a farmer who did not think
that perhaps cord-wood would rise, that there would be a better demand for garden "sass," and
more market for chickens, and who did not regard with more interest his promising colt. When
he drove to the village his rig was less shabby and slovenly in appearance. The young fellows
who prided themselves upon a neat buggy and a fast horse made their turnouts shine, and dashed
past the inn with a self-conscious air. Even the stores began to "slick up" and arrange their
miscellaneous notions more attractively, and one of them boldly put in a window a placard,
"Latest New York Style." When the family went to the Congregational church on Sunday not the
slightest notice was taken of them--though every woman could have told to the last detail what
the ladies wore--but some of the worshipers were for the first time a little nervous about
the performance of the choir, and the deacons heard the sermon chiefly with reference to what
a city visitor would think of it.

Mrs. Mavick was quite equal to the situation. In the church she was devout, in the village
she was affable and friendly. She made acquaintances right and left, and took a simple interest
in everybody and everything. She was on easy terms with the landlord, who declared, "There
is a woman with no nonsense in her." She chatted with the farmers who stopped at the inn door,
she bought things at the stores that she did not want, and she speedily discovered Aunt Hepsy,
and loved to sit with her in the little shop and pick up the traditions and the gossip of the
neighborhood. And she did not confine her angelic visits to the village. On one pretense and
another she made her way into every farmhouse that took her fancy, penetrated the kitchens
and dairies, and got, as she told McDonald, into the inner life of the people.

She must see the grave of Captain Moses Rice. And on this legitimate errand she one day carried
her fluttering attractiveness and patchouly into the Maitland house. Mrs. Maitland was civil,
but no more. Alice was civil but reserved--a great many people, she said, came to see the graves
in the old orchard. But Mrs. Mavick was not a bit abashed. She expressed herself delighted
with everything. It was such a rest, such a perfectly lovely country, and everybody was so
hospitable! And Aunt Hepsy had so interested her in the history of the region! But it was difficult
to get her talk responded to.

However, when Miss Patience came in she made better headway. She had heard so much of Miss
Maitland's apartments. She herself was interested in decorations. She had tried to do something
in her New York home. But there were so many ideas and theories, and it was so hard to be natural
and artificial at the same time. She had no doubt she could get some new ideas from Miss Maitland.
Would it be asking too much to see her apartments? She really felt like a stranger nowhere
in Rivervale. Patience was only too delighted, and took her into her museum of natural history,
art, religion, and vegetation.

"She might have gone to the grave-yard without coming into the house," Alice remarked.

"Oh, well," said her mother, "I think she is very amusing. You shouldn't be so exclusive, Alice."

"Mother, I do believe she paints."

With Patience, Mrs. Mavick felt on surer ground.

"How curious, how very curious and delightful it is! Such knowledge of nature, such art in
arrangement."

"Oh, I just put them up," said Patience, "as I thought they ought by rights to be put up."

"That's it. And you have combined everything here. You have given me an idea. In our house
we have a Japan room, and an Indian room, and a Chinese room, and an Otaheite, and I don't
know what--Egyptian, Greek, and not one American, not a really American. That is, according
to American ideas, for you have everything in these two rooms. I shall write to Mr. Mavick."
(Mr. Mavick never received the letter.)

When she came away it was with a profusion of thanks, and repeated invitations to drop in at
the inn. Alice accompanied her to the first stone that marked the threshold of the side door,
and was bowing her away, when Mr. Philip swung over the fence by the wood-shed, with a shot-gun
on his shoulder, and swinging in his left hand a gray squirrel by its bushy tail, and was immediately
in front of the group.

"Ah!" involuntarily from Mrs. Mavick. An introduction was inevitable.

"My cousin, Mr. Burnett, Mrs. Mavick." Philip raised his cap and bowed.

"A hunter, I see."

"Hardly, madam. In vacations I like to walk in the woods with a gun."

"Then you are not--"

"No," said Philip, smiling, "unfortunately I cannot do this all the time."

"You are of the city, then?"

"With the firm of Hunt, Sharp & Tweedle."

"Ah, my husband knows them, I believe."

"I have seen Mr. Mavick," and Philip bowed again.

"How lucky!"

Mrs. Mavick had an eye for a fine young fellow--she never denied that--and Philip's manly figure
and easy air were not lost on her. Presently she said:

"We are here for a good part of the summer. Mr. Mavick's business keeps him in the city and
we have to poke about a good deal alone. Now, Miss Alice, I am so glad I have met your cousin.
Perhaps he will show us some of the interesting places and the beauties of the country he knows
so well." And she looked sideways at Philip.

"Yes, he knows the country," said Alice, without committing herself.

"I am sure I shall be delighted to do what I can for you whenever you need my services," said
Philip, who had reasons for wishing to know the Mavicks which Alice did not share.

"That's so good of you! Excursions, picnics oh, we will arrange. You must come and help me
arrange. And I hope," with a smile to Alice, "you can persuade your cousin to join us sometimes."

Alice bowed, they all bowed, and Mrs. Mavick said au revoir, and went swinging her parasol
down the driveway. Then she turned and called back, "This is the first long walk I have taken."
And then she said to herself, "Rather stiff, except the young man and the queer old maid. But
what a pretty girl the younger must have been ten years ago! These country flowers!"

XII

Mrs. Mavick thought herself fortunate in finding, in the social wilderness of Rivervale, such
a presentable young gentleman as Philip. She had persuaded herself that she greatly enjoyed
her simple intercourse with the inhabitants, and she would have said that she was in deep sympathy
with their lives. No doubt in New York she would relate her summer adventures as something
very amusing, but for the moment this adaptable woman seemed to herself in a very ingenuous,
receptive, and sympathetic state of mind. Still, there was a limit to the entertaining power
of Aunt Hepsy, which was perceived when she began to repeat her annals of the neighborhood,
and to bring forward again and again the little nuggets of wisdom which she had evolved in
the small circle of her experience. And similarly Mrs. Mavick became aware that there was a
monotony in the ideas brought forward by the farmers and the farmers' wives, whether in the
kitchen or the best room, which she lighted up by her gracious presence, that it was possible
to be tired of the most interesting "peculiarities" when once their novelty was exhausted,
and that so-called "characters" in the country fail to satisfy the requirements of intimate
or long companionship. Their world is too narrowly circumscribed.

The fact that Philip was a native of the place, and so belonged to a world that was remote
from her own, made her free to seek his aid in making the summer pass agreeably without incurring
any risk of social obligations. Besides, when she had seen more of him, she experienced a good
deal of pleasure in his company. His foreign travel, his reading, his life in the city, offered
many points of mutual interest, and it was a relief to her to get out of the narrow range of
topics in the provincial thought, and to have her allusions understood. Philip, on his part,
was not slow to see this, or to perceive that in the higher intellectual ranges, the serious
topics which occupied the attention of the few cultivated people in the neighborhood, Mrs.
Mavick had little interest or understanding, though there was nothing she did not profess an
interest in when occasion required. Philip was not of a suspicious nature, and it may not have
occurred to him that Mrs. Mavick was simply amusing herself, as she would do with any agreeable
man, young or old, who fell in her way, and would continue to do so if she reached the age
of ninety.

On the contrary, it never seemed to occur to Mrs. Mavick, who was generally suspicious, that
Philip was making himself agreeable to the mother of Evelyn. In her thought Evelyn was still
a child, in leading-strings, and would be till she was formally launched, and the social gulf
between the great heiress and the law clerk and poor writer was simply impassable. All of which
goes to show that the most astute women are not always the wisest.

To one person in Rivervale the coming of Mrs. Mavick and her train of worldliness was unwelcome.
It disturbed the peaceful simplicity of the village, and it was likely to cloud her pleasure
in Philip's visit. She felt that Mrs. Mavick was taking him away from the sweet serenity of
their life, and that in everything she said or did there was an element of unrest and excitement.
She was careful, however, not to show any of this apprehension to Philip; she showed it only
by an increased affectionate interest in him and his concerns, and in trying to make the old
home more dear to him. Mrs. Mavick was loud in her praise of Alice to her cousin, and sought
to win her confidence, but she was, after all, a little shy of her, and probably would have
characterized her to a city friend as a sort of virgin in the Bible.

It so happened that day after day went by without giving Philip anything more than passing
glimpses of Evelyn, when she was driving with her mother or her governess. Yet Rivervale never
seemed so ravishingly beautiful to all his senses. Surely it was possessed by a spirit of romance
and poetry, which he had never perceived before, and he wasted a good deal of time in gazing
on the river, on the gracious meadows, on the graceful contours of the hills. When he was a
lad, in the tree-top, there had been something stimulating and almost heroic in the scene,
which awakened his ambition. Now it was the idyllic beauty that took possession of him, transformed
as it was by the presence of a woman, that supreme interpreter of nature to a youth. And yet
scarcely a woman--rather a vision of a girl, impressible still to all the influences of such
a scene and to the most delicate suggestions of unfolding life. Probably he did not analyze
this feeling, but it was Evelyn he was thinking of when he admired the landscape, breathed
with exhilaration the fresh air, and watched the white clouds sail along the blue vault; and
he knew that if she were suddenly to leave the valley all the light would go out of it and
the scene would be flat to his eyes and torturing to his memory.

Mrs. Mavick he encountered continually in the village. He had taken many little strolls with
her to this or that pretty point of view, they had exchanged reminiscences of foreign travel,
and had dipped a little into current popular books, so that they had come to be on easy, friendly
terms. Philip's courtesy and deference, and a certain wit and humor of suggestion applied to
ordinary things, put him more and more on a good footing with her, so much so that she declared
to McDonald that really young Burnett was a genuine "find" in the country.

It seems a pity that the important events in our lives are so commonplace. Philip's meeting
with Evelyn, so long thought of and dramatized in his mind, was not in the least as he had
imagined it. When one morning he went to the Peacock Inn at the summons of Mrs. Mavick, in
order to lay out a plan of campaign, he found Evelyn and her governess seated on the veranda,
with their books. It was Evelyn who rose first and came forward, without, so far as Philip
could see, the least embarrassment of recognition.

"Mr. Burnett? Mamma will be here in a moment. This is our friend, Miss McDonald."

The girl's morning costume was very simple, and in her short walking-skirt she seemed younger
even than in the city. She spoke and moved--Philip noticed that--without the least self-consciousness,
and she had a way of looking her interlocutor frankly in the eyes, or, as Philip expressed
it, "flashing" upon him.

Philip bowed to the governess, and, still standing and waving his hand towards the river, hoped
they liked Rivervale, and then added:

"I see you can read in the country."

"We pretend to," said Evelyn, who had resumed her seat and indicated a chair for Philip, "but
the singing of that river, and the bobolinks in the meadow, and the light on the hills are
almost too much for us. Don't you think, McDonald, it is like Scotland?"

"It would be," the governess replied, "if it rained when it didn't mist, and there were moors
and heather, and--"

"Oh, I didn't mean all that, but a feeling like that, sweet and retired and sort of lonesome?"

"Perhaps Miss McDonald means," said Philip, "that there isn't much to feel here except what
you see."

Miss McDonald looked sharply around at Philip and remarked: "Yes, that's just it. It is very
lovely, like almost any outdoors, if you will give yourself up to it. You remember, Evelyn,
how fascinating the Arizona desert was? But there was a romantic addition to the colored desolation
because the Spaniards and the Jesuits had been there. Now this place lacks traditions, legends,
romance. You have to bring your romance with you."

"And that is the reason you read here?"

"One reason. Especially romances. This charming scenery and the summer sounds of running water
and birds make a nice accompaniment to the romance."

"But mamma says," Evelyn interrupted, "there is plenty of legend here, and tradition and flavor,
Indians and early settlers, and even Aunt Hepsy."

"Well, I confess they don't appeal to me. And as for Indians, Parkman's descriptions of those
savages made me squirm. And I don't believe there was much more romance about the early settlers
than about their descendants. Isn't it true, Mr. Burnett, that you must have a human element
to make any country interesting?"

Philip glanced at Evelyn, whose bright face was kindled with interest in the discussion, and
thought, "Good heavens! if there is not human interest here, I don't know where to look for
it," but he only said:

"Doubtless."

"And why don't you writers do something about it? It is literature that does it, either in
Scotland or Judea."

"Well," said Philip, stoutly, "they are doing something. I could name half a dozen localities,
even sections of country, that travelers visit with curiosity just because authors have thrown
that glamour over them. But it is hard to create something out of nothing. It needs time."

"And genius," Miss McDonald interjected.

"Of course, but it took time to transform a Highland sheep-stealer into a romantic personage."

Miss McDonald laughed. "That is true. Take a modern instance. Suppose Evangeline had lived
in this valley! Or some simple Gretchen about whose simple story all the world is in sympathy!"

"Or," thought Philip, "some Evelyn." But he replied, looking at Evelyn, "I believe that any
American community usually resents being made the scene of a romance, especially if it is localized
by any approach to reality."

"Isn't that the fault mostly of the writer, who vulgarizes his material?"

"The realists say no. They say that people dislike to see themselves as they are."

"Very likely," said Miss McDonald; "no one sees himself as others see him, and probably the
poet who expressed the desire to do so was simply attitudinizing.--[Robert Burns: 'O wha gift
the Giftie gie us; to see o'rselves as others see us.' Ed.]--By the way, Mr. Burnett, you know
there is one place of sentiment, religious to be sure, not far from here. I hope we can go
some day to see the home of the 'Mountain Miller.'"

"Yes, I know the place. It is beyond the river, up that steep road running into the sky, in
the next adjoining hill town. I doubt if you find any one there who lays it much to heart.
But you can see the mill."

"What is the Mountain Miller?" asked Evelyn.

"A tract that, when I was a girl," answered Miss McDonald, "used to be bound up with 'The Dairyman's
Daughter' and 'The Shepherd of Salisbury Plain.' It was the first thing that interested me
in New England."

"Well," said Philip, "it isn't much. Just a tract. But it was written by Parson Halleck, a
great minister and a sort of Pope in this region for fifty years. It is, so far as I know,
the only thing of his that remains."

This tractarian movement was interrupted by the arrival of Mrs. Mavick.

"Good-morning, Mr. Burnett. I've been down to see Jenkins about his picnic wagon. Carries six,
besides the driver and my man, and the hampers. So, you see, Miss Alice will have to go. We
couldn't go rattling along half empty. I'll go up and see her this afternoon. So, that's settled.
Now about the time and place. You are the director. Let's sit down and plan it out. It looks
like good weather for a week."

"Miss McDonald says she wants to see the Mountain Miller," said Philip, with a smile.

"What's that? A monument like your Pulpit Rock?"

"No, a tract about a miller."

"Ah, something religious. I never heard of it. Well, perhaps we had better begin with something
secular, and work round to that."

So an excursion was arranged for the next day. And as Philip walked home, thinking how brilliant
Evelyn had been in their little talk, he began to dramatize the excursion.

All excursions are much alike, exhilarating in the outset, rarely up to expectation in the
object, wearisome in the return; but, nevertheless, delightful in the memory, especially if
attended with some hardship or slight disaster. To be free, in the open air, and for a day
unconventional and irresponsible, is the sufficient justification of a country picnic; but
its common attraction is in the opportunity for bringing young persons of the opposite sex
into natural and unrestrained relations. To Philip it was the first time in his life that a
picnic had ever seemed a defensible means of getting rid of a day.

The two persons to whom this excursion was most novel and exciting were Evelyn and the elder
maiden, Alice, who sat together and speedily developed a sympathy with each other in the enjoyment
of the country, and in a similar poetic temperament, very shy on the part of Alice and very
frank on the part of Evelyn. The whole wild scene along the river was quite as novel to Alice
as to the city girl, because, although she was familiar with every mile of it and had driven
through it a hundred times, she had never in all her life before, of purpose, gone to see it.
No doubt she had felt its wildness and beauty, but now for the first time she looked at it
as scenery, as she might have looked at a picture in a gallery. And in the contagion of Evelyn's
outspoken enthusiasm she was no longer afraid to give timid expression to the latent poetry
in her own soul. And daring to express this, she seemed to herself for the first time to realize
vividly the nobility and grace of the landscape. And yet there was a difference in the appreciation
of the two. More widely read and traveled, Evelyn's imagination took a wider range of comparison
and of admiration, she was appealed to by the large features and the grandiose effects; while
Alice noted more the tenderer aspects, the wayside flowers and bushes, the exotic-looking plants,
which she longed to domesticate in what might be called the Sunday garden on the terraces in
front of her house. For it is in these little cultivated places by the door-step, places of
dreaming in the summer hours after meeting and at sunset, that the New England maiden experiences
something of that tender religious sentiment which was not much fed in the barrenness of the
Congregational meeting-house.

The Pulpit Rock, in the rough pasture land of Zoar, was reached by a somewhat tedious climb
from the lonely farmhouse, in a sheltered nook, through straggling woods and gray pastures.
It was a vast exposed surface rising at a slight angle out of the grass and undergrowth. Along
the upper side was a thin line of bushes, and, pushing these aside, the observer was always
startled at the unexpected scene--as it were the raising of a curtain upon another world. He
stood upon the edge of a sheer precipice of a thousand feet, and looked down upon a green amphitheatre
through the bottom of which the brawling river, an amber thread in the summer foliage, seemed
trying to get an outlet from this wilderness cul de sac. From the edge of this precipice the
first impulse was to start back in surprise and dread, but presently the observer became reassured
of its stability, and became fascinated by the lonesome wildness of the scene.

"Why is it called Pulpit Rock?" asked Mrs. Mavick; "I see no pulpit."

"I suppose," said Philip, "the name was naturally suggested to a religious community, whose
poetic images are mainly Biblical, and who thought it an advantageous place for a preacher
to stand, looking down upon a vast congregation in the amphitheatre."

"So it is," exclaimed Evelyn. "I can see John the Baptist standing here now, and hear his voice
crying in the wilderness."

"Very likely," said Mrs. Mavick, persisting in her doubt, "of course in Zoar. Anywhere else
in the world it would be called the Lover's Leap."

"That is odd," said Alice; "there was a party of college girls came here two years ago and
made up a story about it which was printed, how an Indian maiden pursued by a white man ran
up this hill as if she had been a deer, disappeared from his sight through these bushes, and
took the fatal leap. They called it the Indian Maiden's Rock. But it didn't take. It will always
be Pulpit Rock."

"So you see, Miss McDonald," said Philip, "that writers cannot graft legends on the old stock."

"That depends upon the writer," returned the Scotch woman, shortly. "I didn't see the schoolgirl's
essay."

When the luncheon was disposed of, with the usual adaptation to nomadic conditions, and the
usual merriment and freedom of personal comment, and the wit that seems so brilliant in the
open air and so flat in print, Mrs. Mavick declared that she was tired by the long climb and
the unusual excitement.

"Perhaps it is the Pulpit," she said, "but I am sleepy; and if you young people will amuse
yourselves, I will take a nap under that tree."

Presently, also, Alice and the governess withdrew to the edge of the precipice, and Evelyn
and Philip were left to the burden of entertaining each other. It might have been an embarrassing
situation but for the fact that all the rest of the party were in sight, that the girl had
not the least self-consciousness, having had no experience to teach her that there was anything
to be timid about in one situation more than in another, and that Philip was so absolutely
content to be near Evelyn and hear her voice that there was room for nothing else in his thought.
But rather to his surprise, Evelyn made no talk about the situation or the day, but began at
once with something in her mind, a directness of mental operation that he found was characteristic
of her.

"It seems to me, Mr. Burnett, that there is something of what Miss McDonald regards as the
lack of legend and romance in this region in our life generally."

"I fancy everybody feels that who travels much elsewhere. You mean life seems a little thin,
as the critics say?"

"Yes, lacks color and background. But, you see, I have no experience. Perhaps it's owing to
Miss McDonald. I cannot get the plaids and tartans and Jacobins and castles and what-not out
of my head. Our landscapes are just landscapes."

"But don't you think we are putting history and association into them pretty fast?"

"Yes, I know, but that takes a long time. I mean now. Take this lovely valley and region, how
easily it could be made romantic."

"Not so very easy, I fancy."

"Well, I was thinking about it last night." And then, as if she saw a clear connection between
this and what she was going to say, "Miss McDonald says, Mr. Burnett, that you are a writer."

"I? Why, I'm... I'm--a lawyer."

"Of course, that's business. That reminds me of what papa said once: 'It's lucky there is so
much law, or half the world, including the lawyers, wouldn't have anything to do, trying to
get around it and evade it.' And you won't mind my repeating it--I was a mite of a girl--I
said, 'Isn't that rather sophistical, papa?' And mamma put me down'--It seems to me, child,
you are using pretty big words.'"

They both laughed. But suddenly Evelyn added:

"Why don't you do it?"

"Do what?"

"Write a story about it--what Miss McDonald calls 'invest the region with romance.'"

The appeal was very direct, and it was enforced by those wonderful eyes that seemed to Philip
to discern his powers, as he felt them, and his ambitions, and to express absolute confidence
in him. His vanity was touched in its most susceptible spot. Here seemed to be a woman, nay,
a soul, who understood him, understood him even better than Celia, the lifelong confidante.
It is a fatal moment for men and women, that in which they feel the subtle flattery of being
understood by one of the opposite sex. Philip's estimation of himself rose 'pari passu' with
his recognition of the discernment and intellectual quality of the frank and fascinating girl
who seemed to believe in him. But he restrained himself and only asked, after a moment of apparent
reflection upon the general proposition:

"Well, Miss Mavick, you have been here some time. Have you discovered any material for such use?"

"Why, perhaps not, and I might not know what to do with it if I had. But perhaps you don't
mean what I mean. I mean something fitting the setting. Not the domestic novel. Miss McDonald
says we are vulgarized in all our ideals by so much domesticity. She says that Jennie Deans
would have been just an ordinary, commonplace girl but for Walter Scott."

"Then you want a romance?"

"No. I don't know exactly what I do want. But I know it when I see it." And Evelyn looked down
and appeared to be studying her delicate little hands, interlacing her taper, ivory fingers--but
Philip knew she did not see them--and then looked up in his face again and said:

"I'll tell you. This morning as we came up I was talking all the way with your cousin. It took
some time to break the ice, but gradually she began to say things, half stories, half poetic,
not out of books; things that, if said with assurance, in the city would be called wit. And
then I began to see her emotional side, her pure imagination, such a refinement of appreciation
and justice--I think there is an immovable basis of justice in her nature--and charity, and
I think she'd be heroic, with all her gentleness, if occasion offered."

"I see," said Philip, rather lightly, "that you improved your time in finding out what a rare
creature Alice is. But," and this more gravely, "it would surprise her that you have found it out."

"I believe you. I fancy she has not the least idea what her qualities are, or her capacities
of doing or of suffering, and the world will never know--that is the point-unless some genius
comes along and reveals them."

"How?"

"Why, through a tragedy, a drama, a story, in which she acts out her whole self. Some act it
out in society. She never will. Such sweetness and strength and passion--yes, I have no doubt,
passion under all the reserve! I feel it but I cannot describe it; I haven't imagination to
make you see what I feel."

"You come very near it," said Philip, with a smile. And after a moment the girl broke out again:

"Materials! You writers go searching all round for materials, just as painters do, fit for
your genius."

"But don't you know that the hardest thing to do is the obvious, the thing close to you?"

"I dare say. But you won't mind? It is just an illustration. I went the other day with mother
to Alice's house. She was so sort of distant and reserved that I couldn't know her in the least
as I know her now. And there was the rigid Puritan, her father, representing the Old Testament;
and her placid mother, with all the spirit of the New Testament; and then that dear old maiden
aunt, representing I don't know what, maybe a blind attempt through nature and art to escape
out of Puritanism; and the typical old frame farmhouse--why, here is material for the sweetest,
most pathetic idyl. Yes, the Story of Alice. In another generation people would come long distances
to see the valley where Alice lived, and her spirit would pervade it."

There could be but one end to such a burst of enthusiasm, and both laughed and felt a relief
in a merriment that was, after all, sympathetic. But Evelyn was a persistent creature, and
presently she turned to Philip, again with those appealing eyes.

"Now, why don't you do it?"

Philip hesitated a moment and betrayed some embarrassment under the questioning of the truthful
eyes.

"I've a good mind to tell you. I have--I am writing something."

"Yes?"

"Not that exactly. I couldn't, don't you see, betray and use my own relatives in that way."

"Yes, I see that."

"It isn't much. I cannot tell how it will come out. I tell you--I don't mean that I have any
right to ask you to keep it as a secret of mine, but it is this way: If a writer gives away
his imagination, his idea, before it is fixed in form on paper, he seems to let the air of
all the world upon it and it disappears, and isn't quite his as it was before to grow in his
own mind."

"I can understand that," Evelyn replied.

"Well--" and Philip found himself launched. It is so easy to talk about one's self to a sympathetic
listener. He told Evelyn a little about his life, and how the valley used to seem to him as
a boy, and how it seemed now that he had had experience of other places and people, and how
his studies and reading had enabled him to see things in their proper relations, and how, finally,
gradually the idea for a story in this setting had developed in his mind. And then he sketched
in outline the story as he had developed it, and left the misty outlines of its possibilities
to the imagination.

The girl listened with absorbing interest, and looked the approval which she did not put in
words. Perhaps she knew that a bud will never come to flower if you pull it in pieces. When
Philip had finished he had a momentary regret for this burst of confidence, which he had never
given to any one else. But in the light of Evelyn's quick approval and understanding, it was
only momentary. Perhaps neither of them thought what a dangerous game this is, for two young
souls to thus unbosom themselves to each other.

A call from Mrs. Mavick brought them to their feet. It was time to go. Evelyn simply said:

"I think the valley, Mr. Burnett, looks a little different already."

As they drove home along the murmuring river through the golden sunset, the party were mostly
silent. Only Mrs. Mavick and Philip, who sat together, kept up a lively chatter, lively because
Philip was elated with the event of the day, and because the nap under the beech-tree in the
open air had brightened the wits of one of the cleverest women Philip had ever met.

If the valley did seem different to Evelyn, probably she did not think so far as to own to
herself whether this was owing to the outline of the story, which ran in her mind, or to the
presence of the young author.

Alice and Philip were set down at the farmhouse, and the company parted with mutual enthusiasm
over the success of the excursion.

"She is a much more interesting girl than I thought," Alice admitted. "Not a bit fashionable."

"And she likes you."

"Me?"

"Yes, your ears would have burned."

"Well, I am glad, for I think she is sincere."

"And I can tell you another thing. I had a long talk while you were taking your siesta. She
takes an abstract view of things, judging the right and wrong of them, without reference to
conventionalities or the practical obstacles to carrying out her ideas, as if she had been
educated by reading and not by society. It is very interesting."

"Philip," and Alice laid her hand on his shoulder, "don't let it be too interesting."

XIII

When Philip said that Evelyn was educated in the world of literature and not in the conflicts
of life he had hit the key-note of her condition at the moment she was coming into the world
and would have to act for herself. The more he saw of her the more was he impressed with the
fact that her discrimination, it might almost be called divination, and her judgment were based
upon the best and most vital products of the human mind. A selection had evidently been made
for her, until she had acquired the taste, or the habit rather, of choosing only the best for
herself. Very little of the trash of literature, or the ignoble--that is to say, the ignoble
view of life--had come into her mind. Consequently she judged the world as she came to know
it by high standards. And her mind was singularly pure and free from vulgar images.

It might be supposed that this sort of education would have its disadvantages. The word is
firmly fixed in the idea that both for its pleasure and profit it is necessary to know good
and evil. Ignorance of the evil in the world is, however, not to be predicated of those who
are familiar only with the great masterpieces of literature, for if they are masterpieces,
little or great, they exhibit human nature in all its aspects. And, further than this, it ought
to be demonstrable, a priori, that a mind fed on the best and not confused by the weak and
diluted, or corrupted by images of the essentially vulgar and vile, would be morally healthy
and best fitted to cope with the social problems of life. The Testaments reveal about everything
that is known about human nature, but such is their clear, high spirit, and their quality,
that no one ever traced mental degeneration or low taste in literature, or want of virility
in judgment, to familiarity with them. On the contrary, the most vigorous intellects have acknowledged
their supreme indebtedness to them.

It is not likely that Philip made any such elaborate analysis of the girl with whom he was
in love, or attempted, except by a general reference to the method of her training, to account
for the purity of her mind and her vigorous discernment. He was in love with her more subtle
and hidden personality, with the girl just becoming a woman, with the mysterious sex that is
the inspiration of most of the poetry and a good part of the heroism in the world. And he would
have been in love with her, let her education have been what it might. He was in love before
he heard her speak. And whatever she would say was bound to have a quality of interest and
attraction that could be exercised by no other lips. It might be argued--a priori again, for
the world is bound to go on in its own way--that there would be fewer marriages if the illusion
of the sex did not suffice for the time to hide intellectual poverty, and, what is worse, ignobleness
of disposition.

It was doubtless fortunate for this particular lovemaking, though it did not seem so to Philip,
that it was very much obstructed by lack of opportunities, and that it was not impaired in
its lustre by too much familiarity. In truth, Philip would have said that he saw very little
of Evelyn, because he never saw her absolutely alone. To be sure he was much in her presence,
a welcome member of the group that liked to idle on the veranda of the inn, and in the frequent
excursions, in which Philip seemed to be the companion of Mrs. Mavick rather than of her daughter.
But she was never absent from his thought, his imagination was wholly captive to her image,
and the passion grew in these hours of absence until she became an indispensable associate
in all that he was or could ever hope to be. Alice, who discerned very clearly Mrs. Mavick
and her ambition, was troubled by Philip's absorption and the cruel disappointment in store
for him. To her he was still the little boy, and all her tenderness for him was stirred to
shield him from the suffering she feared.

But what could she do? Philip liked to talk about Evelyn, to dwell upon her peculiarities and
qualities, to hear her praised; to this extent he was confidential with his cousin, but never
in regard to his own feeling. That was a secret concerning which he was at once too humble
and too confident to share with any other. None knew better than he the absurd presumption
of aspiring to the hand of such a great heiress, and yet he nursed the vanity that no other
man could ever appreciate and love her as he did.

Alice was still more distracted and in sympathy with Philip's evident aspirations by her own
love for Evelyn and her growing admiration for the girl's character. It so happened that mutual
sympathy--who can say how it was related to Philip?--had drawn them much together, and chance
had given them many opportunities for knowing each other. Alice had so far come out of her
shell, and broken the reserve of her life, as to make frequent visits at the inn, and Mrs.
Mavick and Evelyn found it the most natural and agreeable stroll by the river-side to the farmhouse,
where naturally, while the mother amused herself with the original eccentricities of Patience,
her daughter grew into an intimacy with Alice.

As for the feelings of Evelyn in these days--her first experience of something like freedom
in the world--the historian has only universal experience to guide him. In her heart was working
the consciousness that she had been singled out as worthy to share the confidence of a man
in his most secret ambitions and aspirations, in the dreams of youth which seemed to her so
noble. For these aspirations and dreams concerned the world in which she had lived most and
felt most.

If Philip had talked to her as he had to Celia about his plans for success in life she would
have been less interested. But there was nothing to warn her personally in these unworldly
confessions. Nor did Philip ever seem to ask anything of her except sympathy in his ideas.
And then there was the friendship of Alice, which could not but influence the girl. In the
shelter of that the intercourse of the summer took on natural relations. For some natures there
is no nurture of love like the security of family protection, under cover of which there is
so little to excite the alarm of a timid maiden.

It was fortunate for Philip that Miss McDonald took a liking to him. They were thrown much
together. They were both good walkers, and liked to climb the hills and explore the wild mountain
streams. Philip would have confessed that he was fond of nature, and fancied there was a sort
of superiority in his attitude towards it to that of his companion, who was merely interested
in plants-just a botanist. This attitude, which she perceived, amused Miss McDonald.

"If you American students," she said one day when they were seated on a fallen tree in the
forest, and she was expatiating on a rare plant she had found, "paid no more attention to the
classics than to the world you live in, few of you would get a degree."

"Oh, some fellows go in for that sort of thing," Philip replied. "But I have noticed that all
English women have some sort of fad--plants, shells, birds, something special."

"Fad!" exclaimed the Scotchwoman. "Yes, I suppose it is, if reading is a fad. It is one way
of finding out about things. You admire what the Americans call scenery; we, since you provoke
me to say it, love nature--I mean its individual, almost personal manifestations. Every plant
has a distinct character of its own. I saw the other day an American landscape picture with
a wild, uncultivated foreground. There was not a botanical thing in it. The man who painted
it didn't know a sweetbrier from a thistle.

"Just a confused mass of rubbish. It was as if an animal painter should compose a group and
you could not tell whether it was made up of sheep or rabbits or dogs or foxes or griffins."

"So you want things picked out like a photograph?"

"I beg your pardon, I want nature. You cannot give character to a bit of ground in a landscape
unless you know the characters of its details. A man is no more fit to paint a landscape than
a cage of monkeys, unless he knows the language of the nature he is dealing with down to the
alphabet. The Japanese know it so well that they are not bothered with minutia, but give you
character."

"And you think that science is an aid to art?"

"Yes, if there is genius to transform it into art. You must know the intimate habits of anything
you paint or write about. You cannot even caricature without that. They talk now about Dickens
being just a caricaturist. He couldn't have been that if he hadn't known the things he caricatured.
That is the reason there is so little good caricature."

"Isn't your idea of painting rather anatomical?" Philip ventured to ask.

"Do you think that if Raphael had known nothing of anatomy the world would have accepted his
Sistine Madonna for the woman she is?" was the retort.

"I see it is interesting," said Philip, shifting his ground again, "but what is the real good
of all these botanical names and classifications?"

Miss McDonald gave a weary sigh. "Well, you must put things in order. You studied philology
in Germany? The chief end of that is to trace the development, migration, civilization of the
human race. To trace the distribution of plants is another way to find out about the race.
But let that go. Don't you think that I get more pleasure in looking at all the growing things
we see, as we sit here, than you do in seeing them and knowing as little about them as you
pretend to?"

Philip said that he could not analyze the degree of pleasure in such things, but he seemed
to take his ignorance very lightly. What interested him in all this talk was that, in discovering
the mind of the governess, he was getting nearer to the mind of her pupil. And finally he asked
(and Miss McDonald smiled, for she knew what this conversation, like all others with him, must
ultimately come to):

"Does the Mavick family also take to botany?"

"Oh yes. Mrs. Mavick is intimate with all the florists in New York. And Miss Evelyn, when I
take home these specimens, will analyze them and tell all about them. She is very sharp about
such things. You must have noticed that she likes to be accurate?"

"But she is fond of poetry."

"Yes, of poetry that she understands. She has not much of the emotional vagueness of many young
girls."

All this was very delightful for Philip, and for a long time, on one pretext or another, he
kept the conversation revolving about this point. He fancied he was very deep in doing this.
To his interlocutor he was, however, very transparent. And the young man would have been surprised
and flattered if he had known how much her indulgence of him in this talk was due to her genuine
liking for him.

When they returned to the inn, Mrs. Mavick began to rally Philip about his feminine taste in
woodsy things. He would gladly have thrown botany or anything else overboard to win the good
opinion of Evelyn's mother, but botany now had a real significance and a new meaning for him.
Therefore he put in a defense, by saying:

"Botany, in the hands of Miss McDonald, cannot be called very feminine; it is a good deal more
difficult to understand and master than law."

"Maybe that's the reason," said Mrs. Mavick, "why so many more girls are eager to study law
now than botany."

"Law?" cried Evelyn; "and to practice?"

"Certainly. Don't you think that a bright, clever woman, especially if she were pretty, would
have an advantage with judge and jury?"

"Not if judge and jury were women," Miss McDonald interposed.

"And you remember Portia?" Mrs. Mavick continued.

"Portia," said Evelyn; "yes, but that is poetry; and, McDonald, wasn't it a kind of catch?
How beautifully she talked about mercy, but she turned the sharp edge of it towards the Jew.
I didn't like that."

"Yes," Miss McDonald replied, "it was a kind of trick, a poet's law. What do you say, Mr. Burnett?"

"Why," said Philip, hesitating, "usually it is understood when a man buys or wins anything
that the appurtenances necessary to give him full possession go with it. Only in this case
another law against the Jew was understood. It was very clever, nothing short of woman's wit."

"Are there any women in your firm, Mr. Burnett?" asked Mrs. Mavick.

"Not yet, but I think there are plenty of lawyers who would be willing to take Portia for a
partner."

"Make her what you call a consulting partner. That is just the way with you men--as soon as
you see women succeeding in doing anything independently, you head them off by matrimony."

"Not against their wills," said the governess, with some decision.

"Oh, the poor things are easily hypnotized. And I'm glad they are. The funniest thing is to
hear the Woman's Rights women talk of it as a state of subjection," and Mrs. Mavick laughed
out of her deep experience.

"Rights, what's that?" asked Evelyn.

"Well, child, your education has been neglected. Thank McDonald for that."

"Don't you know, Evelyn," the governess explained, "that we have always said that women had
a right to have any employment, or do anything they were fitted to do?"

"Oh, that, of course; I thought everybody said that. That is natural. But I mean all this fuss.
I guess I don't understand what you all are talking about." And her bright face broke out of
its look of perplexity into a smile.

"Why, poor thing," said her mother, "you belong to the down-trodden sex. Only you haven't found
it out."

"But, mamma," and the girl seemed to be turning the thing over in her mind, as was her wont
with any new proposition, "there seem to be in history a good many women who never found it
out either."

"It is not so now. I tell you we are all in a wretched condition."

"You look it, mamma," replied Evelyn, who perfectly understood when her mother was chaffing.

"But I think I don't care so much for the lawyers," Mrs. Mavick continued, with more air of
conviction; "what I can't stand are the doctors, the female doctors. I'd rather have a female
priest about me than a female doctor."

This was not altogether banter, for there had been times in Carmen's career when the externals
of the Roman Church attracted her, and she wished she had an impersonal confidant, to whom
she could confess--well, not everything-and get absolution. And she could make a kind of confidant
of a sympathetic doctor. But she went on:

"To have a sharp woman prying into all my conditions and affairs! No, I thank you. Don't you
think so, McDonald?"

"They do say," the governess admitted, "that women doctors haven't as much consideration for
women's whims as men." And, after a moment, she continued:

"But, for all that, women ought to understand about women better than men can, and be the best
doctors for them."

"So it seems to me," said Evelyn, appealing to her mother. "Don't you remember that day you
took me down to the infirmary in which you are interested, and how nice it was, nobody but
women for doctors and nurses and all that? Would you put that in charge of men?"

"Oh, you child!" cried Mrs. Mavick, turning to her daughter and patting her on the head. "Of
course there are exceptions. But I'm not going to be one of the exceptions. Ah, well, I suppose
I am quite behind the age; but the conduct of my own sex does get on my nerves sometimes."

Evelyn was silent. She was often so when discussions arose. They were apt to plunge her into
deep thought. To those who knew her history, guarded from close contact with anything but the
world of ideas, it was very interesting to watch her mental attitude as she was day by day
emerging into a knowledge of the actual world and encountering its crosscurrents. To Philip,
who was getting a good idea of what her education had been, an understanding promoted by his
knowledge of the character and attainments of her governess, her mental processes, it may be
safely said, opened a new world of thought. Not that mental processes made much difference
to a man in his condition, still, they had the effect of setting her personality still further
apart from that of other women. One day when they happened to be tete-a-tete in one of their
frequent excursions--a rare occasion--Evelyn had said:

"How strange it is that so many things that are self-evident nobody seems to see, and that
there are so many things that are right that can't be done."

"That is the way the world is made," Philip had replied. She was frequently coming out with
the sort of ideas and questions that are often proposed by bright children, whose thinking
processes are not only fresh but undisturbed by the sophistries or concessions that experience
has woven into the thinking of our race. "Perhaps it hasn't your faith in the abstract."

"Faith? I wonder. Do you mean that people do not dare go ahead and do things?"

"Well, partly. You see, everybody is hedged in by circumstances."

"Yes. I do begin to see circumstances. I suppose I'm a sort of a goose--in the abstract, as
you say." And Evelyn laughed. It was the spontaneous, contagious laugh of a child. "You know
that Miss McDonald says I'm nothing but a little idealist."

"Did you deny it?"

"Oh, no. I said, so were the Apostles, all save one--he was a realist."

It was Philip's turn to laugh at this new definition, and upon this the talk had drifted into
the commonplaces of the summer situation and about Rivervale and its people. Philip regretted
that his vacation would so soon be over, and that he must say good-by to all this repose and
beauty, and to the intercourse that had been so delightful to him.

"But you will write," Evelyn exclaimed.

Philip was startled.

"Write?"

"Yes, your novel."

"Oh, I suppose so," without any enthusiasm.

"You must. I keep thinking of it. What a pleasure it must be to create a real drama of life."

So this day on the veranda of the inn when Philip spoke of his hateful departure next day,
and there was a little chorus of protest, Evelyn was silent; but her silence was of more significance
to him than the protests, for he knew her thoughts were on the work he had promised to go on with.

"It is too bad," Mrs. Mavick exclaimed; "we shall be like a lot of sheep without a shepherd."

"That we shall," the governess joined in. "At any rate, you must make us out a memorandum of
what is to be seen and done and how to do it."

"Yes," said Philip, gayly, "I'll write tonight a complete guide to Rivervale."

"We are awfully obliged to you for what you have done." Mrs. Mavick was no doubt sincere in
this. And she added, "Well, we shall all be back in the city before long."

It was a natural thing to say, and Philip understood that there was no invitation in it, more
than that of the most conventional acquaintance. For Mrs. Mavick the chapter was closed.

There were the most cordial hand-shakings and good-bys, and Philip said good-by as lightly
as anybody. But as he walked along the road he knew, or thought he was sure, that the thoughts
of one of the party were going along with him into his future, and the peaceful scene, the
murmuring river, the cat-birds and the blackbirds calling in the meadow, and the spirit of
self-confident youth in him said not good-by, but au revoir.

XIV

Of course Philip wrote to Celia about his vacation intimacy with the Mavicks. It was no news
to her that the Mavicks were spending the summer there; all the world knew that, and society
wondered what whim of Carmen's had taken her out of the regular summer occupations and immured
her in the country. Not that it gave much thought to her, but, when her name was mentioned,
society resented the closing of the Newport house and the loss of her vivacity in the autumn
at Lenox. She is such a hand to set things going, don't you know? Mr. Mavick never made a flying
visit to his family--and he was in Rivervale twice during the season--that the newspapers did
not chronicle his every movement, and attribute other motives than family affection to these
excursions into New England. Was the Central system or the Pennsylvania system contemplating
another raid? It could not be denied that the big operator's connection with any great interest
raised suspicion and often caused anxiety.

Naturally, thought Celia, in such a little village, Philip would fall in with the only strangers
there, so that he was giving her no news in saying so. But there was a new tone in his letters;
she detected an unusual reserve that was in itself suspicious. Why did he say so much about
Mrs. Mavick and the governess, and so little about the girl?

"You don't tell me," she wrote, "anything about the Infant Phenomenon. And you know I am dying
to know."

This Philip resented. Phenomenon! The little brown girl, with eyes that saw so much and were
so impenetrably deep, and the mobile face, so alert and responsive. If ever there was a natural
person, it was Evelyn. So he wrote:

"There is nothing to tell; she is not an infant and she is not a phenomenon. Only this: she
has less rubbish in her mind than any person you ever saw. And I guess the things she does
not know about life are not worth knowing."

"I see," replied Celia; "poor boy! it's the moth and the star. [That's just like her, muttered
Philip, she always assumed to be the older.] But don't mind. I've come to the conclusion that
I am a moth myself, and some of the lights I used to think stars have fallen. And, seriously,
dear friend, I am glad there is a person who does not know the things not worth knowing. It
is a step in the right direction. I have been this summer up in the hills, meditating. And
I am not so sure of things as I was. I used to think that all women needed was what is called
education--science, history, literature--and you could safely turn them loose on the world.
It certainly is not safe to turn them loose without education--but I begin to wonder what we
are all coming to. I don't mind telling you that I have got into a pretty psychological muddle,
and I don't see much to hold on to.

"I suppose that Scotch governess is pious; I mean she has a backbone of what they call dogma;
things are right or wrong in her mind--no haziness. Now, I am going to make a confession. I've
been thinking of religion. Don't mock. You know I was brought up religious, and I am religious.
I go to church--well, you know how I feel and especially the things I don't believe. I go to
church to be entertained. I read the other day that Cardinal Manning said: 'The three greatest
evils in the world today are French devotional books, theatrical music, and the pulpit orator.
And the last is the worst.' I wonder. I often feel as if I had been to a performance. No. It
is not about sin that I am especially thinking, but the sinner. One ought to do something.
Sometimes I think I ought to go to the city. You know I was in a College Settlement for a while.
Now I mean something permanent, devoted to the poor as a life occupation, like a nun or something
of that sort. You think this is a mood? Perhaps. There have always been so many things before
me to do, and I wanted to do them all. And I do not stick to anything? You must not presume
to say that, because I confide to you all my errant thoughts. You have not confided in me--I
don't insinuate that you have anything to confide but I cannot help saying that if you have
found a pure and clear-minded girl--Heaven knows what she will be when she is a woman I--I
am sorry she is not poor."

But if Philip did not pour out his heart to his old friend, he did open a lively and frequent
correspondence with Alice. Not about the person who was always in his thoughts--oh, no--but
about himself, and all he was doing, in the not unreasonable expectation that the news would
go where he could not send it directly--so many ingenious ways has love of attaining its object.
And if Alice, no doubt, understood all this, she was nevertheless delighted, and took great
pleasure in chronicling the news of the village and giving all the details that came in her
way about the millionaire family. This connection with the world, if only by correspondence,
was an outlet to her reserved and secluded life. And her letters recorded more of her character,
of her feeling, than he had known in all his boyhood. When Alice mentioned, as it were by chance,
that Evelyn had asked, more than once, when she had spoken of receiving letters, if her cousin
was going on with his story, Philip felt that the connection was not broken.

Going on with his story he was, and with good heart. The thought that "she" might some day
read it was inspiration enough. Any real creation, by pen or brush or chisel, must express
the artist and be made in independence of the demands of a vague public. Art is vitiated when
the commercial demand, which may be a needed stimulus, presides at the creation. But it is
doubtful if any artist in letters, or in form or color, ever did anything well without having
in mind some special person, whose approval was desired or whose criticism was feared. Such
is the universal need of human sympathy. It is, at any rate, true that Philip's story, recast
and reinspired, was thenceforth written under the spell of the pure divining eyes of Evelyn
Mavick. Unconsciously this was so. For at this time Philip had not come to know that the reason
why so many degraded and degrading stories and sketches are written is because the writers'
standard is the approval of one or two or a group of persons of vitiated tastes and low ideals.

The Mavicks did not return to town till late in the autumn. By this time Philip's novel had
been submitted to a publisher, or, rather, to state the exact truth, it had begun to go the
rounds of the publishers. Mr. Brad, to whose nineteenth-century and newspaper eye Philip had
shrunk from confiding his modest creation, but who was consulted in the business, consoled
him with the suggestion that this was a sure way of getting his production read. There was
already in the city a considerable body of professional "readers," mostly young men and women,
to whom manuscripts were submitted by the publishers, so that the author could be sure, if
he kept at it long enough, to get a pretty fair circulation for his story. They were selected
because they were good judges of literature and because they had a keen appreciation of what
the public wanted at the moment. Many of them are overworked, naturally so, in the mass of
manuscripts turned over to their inspection day after day, and are compelled often to adopt
the method of tea-tasters, who sip but do not swallow, for to drink a cup or two of the decoction
would spoil their taste and impair their judgment, especially on new brands. Philip liked to
imagine, as the weeks passed away--the story is old and need not be retold here--that at any
given hour somebody was reading him. He did not, however, dwell with much delight upon this
process, for the idea that some unknown Rhadamanthus was sitting in judgment upon him much
more wounded his 'amour propre', and seemed much more like an invading of his inner, secret
life and feeling, than would be an instant appeal to the general public. Why, he thought, it
is just as if I had shown it to Brad himself--apiece of confidence that he could not bring
himself to. He did not know that Brad himself was a reader for a well-known house--which had
employed him on the strength of his newspaper notoriety--and that very likely he had already
praised the quality of the work and damned it as lacking "snap."

It was, however, weary waiting, and would have been intolerable if his duties in the law office
had not excluded other thoughts from his mind a good part of the time. There were days when
he almost resolved to confine himself to the solid and remunerative business of law, and give
up the vague aspirations of authorship. But those vague aspirations were in the end more enticing
than the courts. Common-sense is not an antidote to the virus of the literary infection when
once a young soul has taken it. In his long walks it was not on the law that Philip was ruminating,
nor was the fame of success in it occupying his mind. Suppose he could write one book that
should touch the heart of the world. Would he exchange the sweetness of that for the fleeting
reputation of the most brilliant lawyer? In short, he magnified beyond all reason the career
and reputation of the author, and mistook the consideration he occupies in the great world.
And what a world it would be if there had not been a continuous line of such mistaken fools as he!

That it was not literature alone that inflated his dreams was evidenced by the direction his
walks took. Whatever their original destination or purpose, he was sure to pass through upper
Fifth Avenue, and walk by the Mavick mansion. And never without a lift in his spirits. What
comfort there is to a lover in gazing at the blank and empty house once occupied by his mistress
has never been explained; but Philip would have counted the day lost in which he did not see it.

After he heard from Alice that the Mavicks had returned, the house had still stronger attractions
for him, for there was added the chance of a glimpse of Evelyn or one of the family. Many a
day passed, however, before he mustered up courage to mount the steps and touch the button.

"Yes, sir," said the servant, "the family is returned, but they is h'out."

Philip left his card. But nothing came of it, and he did not try again. In fact, he was a little
depressed as the days went by. How much doubt and anxiety, even suffering, might have been
spared him if the historian at that moment could have informed him of a little shopping incident
at Tiffany's a few days after the Mavicks' return.

A middle-aged lady and a young girl were inspecting some antiques. The girl, indeed, had been
asking for ancient coins, and they were shown two superb gold staters with the heads of Alexander
and Philip.

"Aren't they beautiful?" said the younger. "How lovely one would be for a brooch!"

"Yes, indeed," replied the elder, "and quite in the line of our Greek reading."

The girl held them in her hand and looked at one and the other with a student's discrimination.

"Which would you choose?"

"Oh, both are fine. Philip of Macedon has a certain youthful freshness, in the curling hair
and uncovered head. But, of course, Alexander the Great is more important, and then there is
the classic casque. I should take the Alexander." The girl still hesitated, weighing the choice
in her mind from the classic point of view.

"Doubtless you are right. But"--and she held up the lovely head--"this is not quite so common,
and--and--I think I'll take the Macedon one. Yes, you may set that for me," turning to the
salesman.

"Diamonds or pearls?" asked the jeweler.

"Oh, dear, no!" exclaimed the girl; "just the head."

Evelyn's education was advancing. For the first time in her life she had something to conceal.
The privilege of this sort of secret is, however, an inheritance of Eve. The first morning
she wore it at breakfast Mrs. Mavick asked her what it was.

"It's a coin, antique Greek," Evelyn replied, passing it across the table.

"How pretty it is; it is very pretty. Ought to have pearls around it. Seems to be an inscription
on it."

"Yes, it is real old. McDonald says it is a stater, about the same as a Persian daric-something
like the value of a sovereign."

"Oh, indeed; very interesting."

To give Evelyn her due, it must be confessed that she blushed at this equivocation about the
inscription, and she got quite hot with shame thinking what would become of her if Philip should
ever know that she was regarding him as a stater and wearing his name on her breast.

One can fancy what philosophical deductions as to the education of women Celia Howard would
have drawn out of this coin incident; one of them doubtless being that a classical education
is no protection against love.

But for Philip's connection with the thriving firm of Hunt, Sharp & Tweedle, it is safe to
say that he would have known little of the world of affairs in Wall Street, and might never
have gained entrance into that other world, for which Wall Street exists, that society where
its wealth and ambitious vulgarity are displayed. Thomas Mavick was a client of the firm. At
first they had been only associated with his lawyer, and consulted occasionally. But as time
went on Mr. Mavick opened to them his affairs more and more, as he found the advantage of being
represented to the public by a firm that combined the highest social and professional standing
with all the acumen and adroitness that his complicated affairs required.

It was a time of great financial feverishness and uncertainty, and of opportunity for the most
reckless adventurers. Houses the most solid were shaken and crippled, and those which were
much extended in a variety of adventures were put to their wits' ends to escape shipwreck.
Financial operations are perpetual war. It is easy to calculate about the regular forces, but
the danger is from the unexpected "raids" and the bushwhackers and guerrillas. And since politics
has become inextricably involved in financial speculations (as it has in real war), the excitement
and danger of business on a large scale increase.

Philip as a trusted clerk, without being admitted into interior secrets, came to know a good
deal about Mavick's affairs, and to be more than ever impressed with his enormous wealth and
the magnitude of his operations. From time to time he was sent on errands to Mavick's office,
and gradually, as Mavick became accustomed to him as a representative of the firm, they came
on a somewhat familiar footing, and talked of other things than business. And Mavick, who was
not a bad judge of the capacities of men, conceived a high idea of Philip's single-mindedness,
of his integrity and general culture, and, as well, of his agreeableness (for Philip had a
certain charm where he felt at ease), while at the same time he discovered that his mind was
more upon something else than law, and that, if his success in his profession depended upon
his adoption of the business methods of the Street, he could not go very far. Consequently
he did not venture upon the same confidences with him that he habitually did with Mr. Sharp.
Yet, business aside, he had an intellectual pleasure in exchanging views with Philip which
Mr. Sharp's conversation did not offer him.

When, therefore, Mrs. Mavick came to consult her husband about the list for the coming-out
reception of Evelyn, Philip found a friend at court.

"It is all plain enough," said Carmen, as she sat down with book and pencil in hand, "till
you come to the young men, the unattached young men. Here is my visiting-list, that of course.
But for the young ladies we must have more young men. Can't you suggest any?"

"Perhaps. I know a lot of young fellows."

"But I mean available young men, those that count socially. I don't want a broker's board or
a Chamber of Commerce here."

Mr. Mavick named half a dozen, and Carmen looked for their names in the social register. "Any
more?"

"Why, you forgot young Burnett, who was with you last summer at Rivervale. I thought you liked
him."

"So I did in Rivervale. Plain farmer people. Yes, he was very nice to us. I've been thinking
if I couldn't send him something Christmas and pay off the debt."

"He'd think a great deal more of an invitation to your reception."

"But you don't understand. You never think of Evelyn's future. We are asking people that we
think she ought to know."

"Well, Burnett is a very agreeable fellow."

"Fiddlesticks! He is nothing but a law clerk. Worse than that, he is a magazine writer."

"I thought you liked his essays and stories."

"So I do. But you don't want to associate with everybody you like that way. I am talking about
society. You must draw the line somewhere. Oh, I forgot Fogg--Dr. LeRoy Fogg, from Pittsburg."
And down went the name of Fogg.

"You mean that young swell whose business it is to drive a four-in-hand to Yonkers and back,
and toot on a horn?"

"Well, what of that? Everybody who is anybody, I mean all the girls, want to go on his coach."

"Oh, Lord! I'd rather go on the Elevated." And Mavick laughed very heartily, for him. "Well,
I'll make a compromise. You take Fogg and I'll take Burnett. He is in a good firm, he belongs
to a first-rate club, he goes to the Hunts' and the Scammels', I hear of him in good places. Come."

"Well, if you make a point of it. I've nothing against him. But if you knew the feelings of
a mother about her only daughter you would know, that you cannot be too careful."

When, several days after this conversation, Philip received his big invitation, gorgeously
engraved on what he took to be a sublimated sort of wrapping-paper, he felt ashamed that he
had doubted the sincere friendship and the goodness of heart of Mrs. Mavick.

XV

One morning in December, Philip was sent down to Mr. Mavick's office with some important papers.
He was kept waiting a considerable time in the outer room where the clerks were at work. A
couple of clerks at desks near the chair he occupied were evidently discussing some one and
he overheard fragments of sentences--"Yes, that's he." "Well, I guess the old man's got his
match this time."

When he was admitted to the private office, he encountered coming out in the anteroom a man
of striking appearance. For an instant they were face to face, and then bowed and passed on.
The instant seemed to awaken some memory in Philip which greatly puzzled him.

The man had closely cropped black hair, black Whiskers, a little curling, but also closely
trimmed, piercing black eyes, and the complexion of a Spaniard. The nose was large but regular,
the mouth square-cut and firm, and the powerful jaw emphasized the decision of the mouth. The
frame corresponded with the head. It was Herculean, and yet with no exaggerated developments.
The man was over six feet in height, the shoulders were square, the chest deep, the hips and
legs modeled for strength, and with no superfluous flesh. Philip noticed, as they fronted each
other for an instant and the stranger raised his hat, that his hands and feet were smaller
than usually accompany such a large frame. The impression was that of great physical energy,
self-confidence, and determined will. The face was not bad, certainly not in detail, and even
the penetrating eyes seemed at the moment capable of a humorous expression, but it was that
of a man whom you would not like to have your enemy. He wore a business suit of rough material
and fashionable cut, but he wore it like a man who did not give much thought to his clothes.

"What a striking-looking man," said Philip, motioning with his hand towards the anteroom as
he greeted Mr. Mavick.

"Who, Ault?" answered Mavick, indifferently.

"Ault! What, Murad Ault?"

"Nobody else."

"Is it possible? I thought I saw a resemblance. Several times I have wondered, but I fancied
it only a coincidence of names. It seemed absurd. Why, I used to know Murad Ault when we were
boys. And to think that he should be the great Murad Ault."

"He hasn't been that for more than a couple of years," Mavick answered, with a smile at the
other's astonishment, and then, with more interest, "What do you know about him?"

"If this is the same person, he used to live at Rivervale. Came there, no one knew where from,
and lived with his mother, a little withered old woman, on a little cleared patch up in the
hills, in a comfortable sort of shanty. She used to come to the village with herbs and roots
to sell. Nobody knew whether she was a gypsy or a decayed lady, she had such an air, and the
children were half afraid of her, as a sort of witch. Murad went to school, and occasionally
worked for some farmer, but nobody knew him; he rarely spoke to any one, and he had the reputation
of being a perfect devil; his only delight seemed to be in doing some dare-devil feat to frighten
the children. We used to say that Murad Ault would become either a pirate or--"

"Broker," suggested Mr. Mavick, with a smile.

"I didn't know much about brokers at that time," Philip hastened to say, and then laughed himself
at his escape from actual rudeness.

"What became of him?"

"Oh, he just disappeared. After I went away to school I heard that his mother had died, and
Murad had gone off--gone West it was said. Nothing was ever heard of him."

The advent and rise of Murad Ault in New York was the sort of phenomenon to which the metropolis,
which picks up its great men as Napoleon did his marshals, is accustomed. The mystery of his
origin, which was at first against him, became at length an element of his strength and of
the fear he inspired, as a sort of elemental force of unknown power. Newspaper biographies
of him constantly appeared, but he had evaded every attempt to include him and his portrait
in the Lives of Successful Men. The publishers of these useful volumes for stimulating speculation
and ambition did not dare to take the least liberties with Murad Ault.

The man was like the boy whom Philip remembered. Doubtless he appreciated now as then the value
of the mystery that surrounded his name and origin; and he very soon had a humorous conception
of the situation that made him decline to be pilloried with others in one of those volumes,
which won from a reviewer the confession that "lives of great men all remind us we may make
our lives sublime." One of the legends current about him was that he first appeared in New
York as a "hand" on a canal-boat, that he got employment as a check-clerk on the dock, that
he made the acquaintance of politicians in his ward, and went into politics far enough to get
a city contract, which paid him very well and showed him how easily a resolute man could get
money and use it in the city. He was first heard of in Wall Street as a curbstone broker, taking
enormous risks and always lucky. Very soon he set up an office, with one clerk or errand-boy,
and his growing reputation for sagacity and boldness began to attract customers; his ventures
soon engaged the attention of guerrillas like himself, who were wont to consult him. They found
that his advice was generally sound, and that he had not only sensitiveness but prescience
about the state of the market. His office was presently enlarged, and displayed a modest sign
of "Murad Ault, Banker and Broker."

Mr. Ault's operations constantly enlarged, his schemes went beyond the business of registering
other people's bets and taking a commission on them; he was known as a daring but successful
promoter, and he had a visible ownership in steamships and railways, and projected such vast
operations as draining the Jersey marshes. If he had been a citizen of Italy he would have
attacked the Roman Campagna with the same confidence. At any rate, he made himself so much
felt and seemed to command so many resources that it was not long before he forced his way
into the Stock Exchange and had a seat in the Board of Brokers. He was at first an odd figure
there. There was something flash about his appearance, and his heavy double watch-chain and
diamond shirt-studs gave him the look of an ephemeral adventurer. But he soon took his cue,
the diamonds disappeared, and the dress was toned down. There seemed to be two models in the
Board, the smart and neat, and the hayseed style adopted by some of the most wily old operators,
who posed as honest dealers who retained their rural simplicity. Mr. Ault adopted a middle
course, and took the respectable yet fashionable, solid dress of a man of affairs.

There is no other place in the world where merit is so quickly recognized as in the Stock Exchange,
especially if it is backed by brass and a good head. Ault's audacity made him feared; he was
believed to be as unscrupulous as he was reckless, but this did not much injure his reputation
when it was seen that he was marvelously successful. That Ault would wreck the market, if he
could and it was to his advantage, no one doubted; but still he had a quality that begot confidence.
He kept his word. Though men might be shy of entering into a contract with Ault, they learned
that what he said he would do he would do literally. He was not a man of many words, but he
was always decided and apparently open, and, as whatever he touched seemed to thrive, his associates
got the habit of saying, "What Ault says goes."

Murad Ault had married, so it was said, the daughter of a boarding-house keeper on the dock.
She was a pretty girl, had been educated in a convent (perhaps by his aid after he was engaged
to marry her), and was a sweet mother to a little brood of charming children, and a devout
member of her parish church. Those who had seen Mrs. Ault when her carriage took her occasionally
to Ault's office in the city were much impressed by her graceful manner and sweet face, and
her appearance gave Ault a sort of anchorage in the region of respectability. No one would
have accused Ault of being devoted to any special kind of religious worship; but he was equally
tolerant of all religions, and report said was liberal in his wife's church charities. Besides
the fact that he owned a somewhat pretentious house in Sixtieth Street, society had very little
knowledge of him.

It was, however, undeniable that he was a power in the Street. No other man's name was oftener
mentioned in the daily journals in connection with some bold and successful operation. He seemed
to thrive on panics, and to grow strong and rich with every turn of the wheel. There is only
one stock expression in America for a man who is very able and unscrupulous, and carries things
successfully with a high hand--he is Napoleonic. It needed only a few brilliant operations,
madly reckless in appearance but successful, to give Ault the newspaper sobriquet of the Young
Napoleon.

"Papa, what does he mean?" asked the eldest boy. "Jim Dustin says the papers call you Napoleon."

"It means, my boy," said Ault, with a grim smile, "that I am devoted to your mother, St. Helena."

"Don't say that, Murad," exclaimed his wife; "I'm far enough from a saint, and your destiny
isn't the Island."

"What's the Island, mamma?"

"It's a place people are sent to for their health."

"In a boat? Can I go?"

"You ask too many questions, Sinclair," said Mr. Ault; "it's time you were off to school."

There seems to have been not the least suspicion in this household that the head of it was
a pirate.

It must be said that Mavick still looked upon Ault as an adventurer, one of those erratic beings
who appear from time to time in the Street, upset everything, and then disappear. They had
been associated occasionally in small deals, and Ault had more than once appealed to Mavick,
as a great capitalist, with some promising scheme. They had, indeed, co-operated in reorganizing
a Western railway, but seemed to have come out of the operation without increased confidence
in each other. What had occurred nobody knew, but thereafter there developed a slight antagonism
between the two operators. Ault went no more to consult the elder man, and they had two or
three little bouts, in which Mavick did not get the best of it. This was not an unusual thing
in the Street. Mr. Ault never expressed his opinion of Mr. Mavick, but it became more and more
apparent that their interests were opposed. Some one who knew both men, and said that the one
was as cold and selfish as a pike, and the other was a most unscrupulous dare-devil, believed
that Mavick had attempted some sort of a trick on Ault, and that it was the kind of thing that
the Spaniard (his complexion had given him this nickname) never forgot.

It is not intended to enter into a defense of the local pool known as the New York Stock Exchange.
It needs none. Some regard it as a necessary standpipe to promote and equalize distribution,
others consult it as a sort of Nilometer, to note the rise and fall of the waters and the probabilities
of drought or flood. Everybody knows that it is full of the most gamy and beautiful fish in
the world--namely, the speckled trout, whose honest occupation it is to devour whatever is
thrown into the pool--a body governed by the strictest laws of political economy in guarding
against over-population, by carrying out the Malthusian idea, in the habit the big ones have
of eating the little ones. But occasionally this harmonious family, which is animated by one
of the most conspicuous traits of human nature--to which we owe very much of our progress--namely,
the desire to get hold of everything within reach, and is such a useful object-lesson of the
universal law of upward struggle that results in the survival of the fittest, this harmonious
family is disturbed by the advent of a pickerel, which makes a raid, introduces confusion into
all the calculations of the pool, roils the water, and drives the trout into their holes.

The presence in the pool of a slimy eel or a blundering bullhead or a lethargic sucker is bad
enough, but the rush in of the pickerel is the advent of the devil himself. Until he is got
rid of, all the delicate machinery for the calculation of chances is hopelessly disturbed;
and no one could tell what would become of the business of the country if there were not a
considerable number of devoted men engaged in registering its fluctuations and the change of
values, and willing to back their opinions by investing their own capital or, more often, the
capital of others.

This somewhat mixed figure cannot be pursued further without losing its analogy, becoming fantastic,
and violating natural law. For it is matter of observation that in this arena the pickerel,
if he succeeds in clearing out the pool, suddenly becomes a trout, and is respected as the
biggest and most useful fish in the pond.

What is meant is simply that Murad Ault was fighting for position, and that for some reason,
known to himself, Thomas Mavick stood in his way. Mr. Mavick had never been under the necessity
of making such a contest. He stepped into a commanding position as the manager if not the owner
of the great fortune of Rodney Henderson. His position was undisputed, for the Street believed
with the world in the magnitude of that fortune, though there were shrewd operators who said
that Mavick had more chicane but not a tenth part of the ability of Rodney Henderson. Mr. Ault
had made the fortune the object of keen scrutiny, when his antagonism was aroused, and none
knew better than he its assailable points. Henderson had died suddenly in the midst of vast
schemes which needed his genius to perfect. Apparently the Mavick estate was second to only
a few fortunes in the country. Mr. Ault had set himself to find out whether this vast structure
stood upon rock foundations. The knowledge he acquired about it and his intentions he communicated
to no one. But the drift of his mind might be gathered from a remark he made to his wife one
day, when some social allusion was made to Mavick: "I'll bring down that snob."

The use of such men as Ault in the social structure is very doubtful, as doubtful as that of
a summer tempest or local cyclone, which it is said clears the air and removes rubbish, but
is a scourge that involves the innocent as often as the guilty. It is popularly supposed that
the disintegration and distribution of a great fortune, especially if it has been accumulated
by doubtful methods, is a benefit to mankind. Mr. Ault may have shared this impression, but
it is unlikely that he philosophized on the subject. No one, except perhaps his own family,
had ever discovered that he had any sensibilities that could be appealed to, and, if he had
known the ideas beginning to take shape in the mind of the millionaire heiress in regard to
this fortune, he would have approved or comprehended them as little as did her mother.

Evelyn had lived hitherto with little comprehension of her peculiar position. That the world
went well with her, and that no obstacle was opposed to the gratification of her reasonable
desires, or to her impulses of charity and pity, was about all she knew of her power. But she
was now eighteen and about to appear in the world. Her mother, therefore, had been enlightening
her in regard to her expectations and the career that lay open to her. And Carmen thought the
girl a little perverse, in that this prospect, instead of exciting her worldly ambition, seemed
to affect her only seriously as a matter of responsibility.

In their talks Mrs. Mavick was in fact becoming acquainted with the mind of her daughter, and
learning, somewhat to her chagrin, the limitations of her education produced by the policy
of isolation.

To her dismay, she found that the girl did not care much for the things that she herself cared
most for. The whole world of society, its strifes, ambitions, triumphs, defeats, rewards, did
not seem to Evelyn so real or so important as that world in which she had lived with her governess
and her tutors. And, worse than this, the estimate she placed upon the values of material things
was shockingly inadequate to her position.

That her father was a very great man was one of the earliest things Evelyn began to know, exterior
to herself. This was impressed upon her by the deference paid to him not only at home but wherever
they went, and by the deference shown to her as his daughter. And she was proud of this. He
was not one of the great men whose careers she was familiar with in literature, not a general
or a statesman or an orator or a scientist or a poet or a philanthropist she never thought
of him in connection with these heroes of her imagination--but he was certainly a great power
in the world. And she had for him a profound admiration, which might have become affection
if Mavick had ever taken the pains to interest himself in the child's affairs. Her mother she
loved, and believed there could be no one in the world more sweet and graceful and attractive,
and as she grew up she yearned for more of the motherly companionship, for something more than
the odd moments of petting that were given to her in the whirl of the life of a woman of the
world. What that life was, however, she had only the dimmest comprehension, and it was only
in the last two years, since she was sixteen, that she began to understand it, and that mainly
in contrast to her own guarded life. And she was now able to see that her own secluded life
had been unusual.

Not till long after this did she speak to any one of her experience as a child, of the time
when she became conscious that she was never alone, and that she was only free to act within
certain limits.

To McDonald, indeed, she had often shown her irritation, and it was only the strong good sense
of the governess that kept her from revolt. It was not until very recently that it could be
explained to her, without putting her in terror hourly, why she must always be watched and guarded.

It had required all the tact and sophistry of her governess to make her acquiesce in a system
of education--so it was called-that had been devised in order to give her the highest and purest
development. That the education was mainly left to McDonald, and that her parents were simply
anxious about her safety, she did not learn till long afterwards. In the first years Mrs. Mavick
had been greatly relieved to be spared all the care of the baby, and as the years went on,
the arrangement seemed more and more convenient, and she gave little thought to the character
that was being formed. To Mr. Mavick, indeed, as to his wife, it was enough to see that she
was uncommonly intelligent, and that she had a certain charm that made her attractive. Mrs.
Mavick took it for granted that when it came time to introduce her into the world she would
be like other girls, eager for its pleasures and susceptible to all its allurements. Of the
direction of the undercurrents of the girl's life she had no conception, until she began to
unfold to her the views of the world that prevailed in her circle, and what (in the Carmen
scheme of life) ought to be a woman's ambition.

That she was to be an heiress Evelyn had long known, that she would one day have a great fortune
at her disposal had indeed come into her serious thought, but the brilliant use of it in relation
to herself, at which her mother was always lately hinting, came to her as a disagreeable shock.
For the moment the fortune seemed to her rather a fetter than an opportunity, if she was to
fulfill her mother's expectations. These hints were conveyed with all the tact of which her
mother was master, but the girl was nevertheless somewhat alarmed, and she began to regard
the "coming out" as an entrance into servitude rather than an enlargement of liberty. One day
she surprised Miss McDonald by asking her if she didn't think that rich people were the only
ones not free to do as they pleased?

"Why, my dear, it is not generally so considered. Most people fancy that if they had money
enough they could do anything."

"Yes, of course," said the girl, putting down her stitching and looking up; "that is not exactly
what I mean. They can go in the current, they can do what they like with their money, but I
mean with themselves. Aren't they in a condition that binds them half the time to do what they
don't wish to do?"

"It's a condition that all the world is trying to get into."

"I know. I've been talking with mamma about the world and about society, and what is expected
and what you must live up to."

"But you have always known that you must one day go into the world and take your share in life."

"That, yes. But I would rather live up to myself. Mamma seems to think that society will do
a great deal for me, that I will get a wider view of life, that I can do so much for society,
and, with my position, mamma says, have such a career. McDonald, what is society for?"

That was such a poser that the governess threw up her hands, and then laughed aloud, and then
shook her head. "Wiser people than you have asked that question."

"I asked mamma that, for she is in it all the time. She didn't like it much, and asked, 'What
is anything for?' You see, McDonald, I've been with mamma many a time when her friends came
to see her, and they never have anything to say, never--what I call anything. I wonder if in
society they go about saying that? What do they do it for?"

Miss McDonald had her own opinion about what is called society and its occupations and functions,
but she did not propose to encourage this girl, who would soon take her place in it, in such
odd notions.

"Don't you know, child, that there is society and society? That it is all sorts of a world,
that it gets into groups and circles about, and that is the way the world is stirred up and
kept from stagnation. And, my dear, you have just to do your duty where you are placed, and
that is all there is about it."

"Don't be cross, McDonald. I suppose I can think my thoughts?"

"Yes, you can think, and you can learn to keep a good deal that you think to yourself. Now,
Evelyn, haven't you any curiosity to see what this world we are talking about is like?"

"Indeed I have," said Evelyn, coming out of her reflective mood into a girlish enthusiasm.
"And I want to see what I shall be like in it. Only--well, how is that?" And she held out the
handkerchief she had been plying her needle on.

Miss McDonald looked at the stitches critically, at the letters T.M. enclosed in an oval.

"That is very good, not too mechanical. It will please your father. The oval makes a pretty
effect; but what are those signs between the letters?"

"Don't you see? It is a cartouche, and those are hieroglyphics--his name in Egyptian. I got
it out of Petrie's book."

"It certainly is odd."

"And every one of the twelve is going to be different. It is so interesting to hunt up the
signs for qualities. If papa can read it he will find out a good deal that I think about him."

The governess only smiled for reply. It was so like Evelyn, so different from others even in
the commonplace task of marking handkerchiefs, to work a little archaeology into her expression
of family affection.

Mrs. Mavick's talks with her daughter in which she attempted to give Evelyn some conception
of her importance as the heiress of a great fortune, of her position in society, what would
be expected of her, and of the brilliant social career her mother imagined for her, had an
effect opposite to that intended. There had been nothing in her shielded life, provided for
at every step without effort, that had given her any idea of the value and importance of money.

To a girl in her position, educated in the ordinary way and mingling with school companions,
one of the earliest lessons would be a comprehension of the power that wealth gave her; and
by the time that she was of Evelyn's age her opinion of men would begin to be colored by the
notion that they were polite or attentive to her on account of her fortune and not for any
charm of hers, and so a cruel suspicion of selfishness would have entered her mind to poison
the very thought of love.

No such idea had entered Evelyn's mind. She would not readily have understood that love could
have any sort of relation to riches or poverty. And if, deep down in her heart, not acknowledged,
scarcely recognized, by herself, there had begun to grow an image about which she had sweet
and tender thoughts, it certainly did not occur to her that her father's wealth could make
any difference in the relations of friendship or even of affection. And as for the fortune,
if she was, as her mother said, some day to be mistress of it, she began to turn over in her
mind objects quite different from the display and the career suggested by her mother, and to
think how she could use it.

In her ignorance of practical life and of what the world generally values, of course the scheme
that was rather hazy in her mind was simply Quixotic, as appeared in a conversation with her
father one evening while he smoked his cigar. He had called Evelyn to the library, on the suggestion
of Carmen that he should "have a little talk with the girl."

Mr. Mavick began, when Evelyn was seated beside him, and he had drawn her close to him and
she had taken possession of his big hand with both her little hands, about the reception and
about balls to come, and the opera, and what was going on in New York generally in the season,
and suddenly asked:

"My dear, if you had a lot of money, what would you do with it?"

"What would you?" said the girl, looking up into his face. "What do people generally do?"

"Why," and Mavick hesitated, "they use it to add more to it."

"And then?" pursued the girl.

"I suppose they leave it to somebody. Suppose it was left to you?"

"Don't think me silly, papa; I've thought a lot about it, and I shall do something quite different."

"Different from what?"

"You know mamma is in the Orthopedic Hospital, and in the Ragged Schools, and in the Infirmary,
and I don't know what all."

"And wouldn't you help them?"

"Of course, I would help. But everybody does those things, the practical things, the charities;
I mean to do things for the higher life."

Mr. Mavick took his cigar from his mouth and looked puzzled. "You want to build a cathedral?"

"No, I don't mean that sort of higher life, I mean civilization, the things at the top. I read
an essay the other day that said it was easy to raise money for anything mechanical and practical
in a school, but nobody wanted to give for anything ideal."

"Quite right," said her father; "the world is full of cranks. You seem as vague as your essayist."

"Don't you remember, papa, when we were in Oxford how amused you were with the master, or professor,
who grumbled because the college was full of students, and there wasn't a single college for
research?

"I asked McDonald afterwards what he meant; that is how I first got my idea, but I didn't see
exactly what it was until recently. You've got to cultivate the high things--that essay says--the
abstract, that which does not seem practically useful, or society will become low and material."

"By George!" cried Mavick, with a burst of laughter, "you've got the lingo. Go on, I want to
see where you are going to light."

"Well, I'll tell you some more. You know my tutor is English. McDonald says she believes he
is the most learned man in eighteenth-century literature living, and his dream is to write
a history of it. He is poor, and engaged all the time teaching, and McDonald says he will die,
no doubt, and leave nothing of his investigations to the world."

"And you want to endow him?"

"He is only one. There is the tutor of history. Teach, teach, teach, and no time or strength
left for investigation. You ought to hear him tell of the things just to be found out in American
history. You see what I mean? It is plainer in the sciences. The scholars who could really
make investigations, and do something for the world, have to earn their living and have no
time or means for experiments. It seems foolish as I say it, but I do think, papa, there is
something in it."

"And what would you do?"

Evelyn saw that she was making no headway, and her ideas, exposed to so practical a man as
her father, did seem rather ridiculous. But she struck out boldly with the scheme that she
had been evolving.

"I'd found Institutions of Research, where there should be no teaching, and students who had
demonstrated that they had anything promising in them, in science, literature, languages, history,
anything, should have the means and the opportunity to make investigations and do work. See
what a hard time inventors and men of genius have; it is pitiful."

"And how much money do you want for this modest scheme of yours?"

"I hadn't thought," said Evelyn, patting her father's hand. And then, at a venture, "I guess
about ten millions."

"Whew! Have you any idea how much ten millions are, or how much one million is?"

"Why, ten millions, if you have a hundred, is no more than one million if you have only ten.
Doesn't it depend?"

"If it depends upon you, child, I don't think money has any value for you whatever. You are
a born financier for getting rid of a surplus. You ought to be Secretary of the Treasury."

Mavick rose, lifted up his daughter, and, kissing her with more than usual tenderness, said,
"You'll learn about the world in time," and bade her goodnight.

XVI

Law and love go very well together as occupations, but, when literature is added, the trio
is not harmonious. Either of the two might pull together, but the combination of the three
is certainly disastrous.

It would be difficult to conceive of a person more obviously up in the air than Philip at this
moment. He went through his office duties intelligently and perfunctorily, but his heart was
not in the work, and reason as he would his career did not seem to be that way. He was lured
too strongly by that siren, the ever-alluring woman who sits upon the rocks and sings so deliciously
to youth of the sweets of authorship. He who listens once to that song hears it always in his
ears, through disappointment and success--and the success is often the greatest disappointment--through
poverty and hope deferred and heart-sickness for recognition, through the hot time of youth
and the creeping incapacity of old age. The song never ceases. Were the longing and the hunger
it arouses ever satisfied with anything, money for instance, any more than with fame?

And if the law had a feeble hold on him, how much more uncertain was his grasp on literature.
He had thrown his line, he had been encouraged by nibbles, but publishers were too wary to
take hold. It seemed to him that he had literally cast his bread upon the waters, and apparently
at an ebb tide, and his venture had gone to the fathomless sea. He had put his heart into the
story, and, more than that, his hope of something dearer than any public favor. As he went
over the story in his mind, scene after scene, and dwelt upon the theme that held the whole
in unity, he felt that Evelyn would be touched by the recognition of her part in the inspiration,
and that the great public must give some heed to it. Perhaps not the great public--for its
liking now ran in quite another direction, but a considerable number of people like Celia,
who were struggling with problems of life, and the Alices in country homes who still preserved
in their souls a belief in the power of a noble life, and perhaps some critics who had not
rid themselves of the old traditions. If the publishers would only give him a chance!

But if law and literature were to him little more than unsubstantial dreams, the love he cherished
was, in the cool examination of reason, preposterous. What! the heiress of so many millions,
brought up doubtless in the expectation of the most brilliant worldly alliance, the heiress
with the world presently at her feet, would she look at a lawyer's clerk and an unsuccessful
scribbler? Oh, the vanity of youth and the conceit of intellect!

Down in his heart Philip thought that she might. And he went on nursing this vain passion,
knowing as well as any one can know the social code, that Mr. Mavick and Mrs. Mavick would
simply laugh in his face at such a preposterous idea. And yet he knew that he had her sympathy
in his ambition, that to a certain extent she was interested in him. The girl was too guileless
to conceal that. And then suppose he should become famous--well, not exactly famous, but an
author who was talked about, and becoming known, and said to be promising? And then he could
fancy Mavick weighing this sort of reputation in his office scales against money, and Mrs.
Mavick weighing it in her boudoir against social position. He was a fool to think of it. And
yet, suppose, suppose the girl should come to love him. It would not be lightly. He knew that,
by looking into her deep, clear, beautiful eyes. There were in them determination and tenacity
of purpose as well as the capability of passion. Heavens and earth, if that girl once loved,
there was a force that no opposition could subdue! That was true. But what had he to offer
to evoke such a love?

In those days Philip saw much of Celia, who at length had given up teaching, and had come to
the city to try her experiment, into which she was willing to embark her small income. She
had taken a room in the midst of poverty and misery on the East Side, and was studying the
situation.

"I am not certain," she said, "whether I or any one else can do anything, or whether any organization
down there can effect much. But I will find out."

"Aren't you lonesome--and disgusted?" asked Philip.

"Disgusted? You might as well be disgusted with one thing as another. I am generally disgusted
with the way things go. But, lonely? No, there is too much to do and to learn. And do you know,
Philip, that people are more interesting over there, more individual, have more queer sorts
of character. I begin to believe, with a lovely philanthropist I know, who had charge of female
criminals, that 'wicked women are more interesting than good women.'"

"You have struck a rich mine of interest in New York, then."

"Don't be cynical, Phil. There are different kinds of interest. Stuff! But I won't explain."
And then, abruptly changing the subject, "Seems to me you have something on your mind lately.
Is it the novel?"

"Perhaps."

"The publishers haven't decided?"

"I am afraid they have."

"Well, Philip, do you know that I think the best thing that could happen to you would be to
have the story rejected."

"It has been rejected several times," said Philip. "That didn't seem to do me any good."

"But finally, so that you would stop thinking about it, stop expecting anything that way, and
take up your profession in earnest."

"You are a nice comforter!" retorted Philip, with a sort of smirking grin and a look of keen
inspection, as if he saw something new in the character of his adviser. "What has come over
you? Suppose I should give you that sort of sympathy in the projects you set your heart on?"

"It does seem hard and mean, doesn't it? I knew you wouldn't like it. That is, not now. But
it is for your lifetime. As for me, I've wanted so many things and I've tried so many things.
And do you know, Phil, that I have about come to the conclusion that the best things for us
in this world are the things we don't get."

"You are always coming to some new conclusion."

"Yes, I know. But just look at it rationally. Suppose your story is published, cast into the
sea of new books, and has a very fair sale. What will you get out of it? You can reckon how
many copies at ten cents a copy it will need to make as much as some writers get for a trivial
magazine paper. Recognition? Yes, from a very few people. Notoriety? You would soon find what
that is. Suppose you make what is called a 'hit.' If you did not better that with the next
book, you would be called a failure. And you must keep at it, keep giving the public something
new all the time, or you will drop out of sight. And then the anxiety and the strain of it,
and the temptation, because you must live, to lower your ideal, and go down to what you conceive
to be the buying public. And if your story does not take the popular fancy, where will you
be then?"

"Celia, you have become a perfect materialist. You don't allow anything for the joy of creation,
for the impulse of a man's mind, for the delight in fighting for a place in the world of letters."

"So it seems to you now. If you have anything that must be said, of course you ought to say
it, no matter what comes after. If you are looking round for something you can say in order
to get the position you covet, that is another thing. People so deceive themselves about this.
I know literary workers who lead a dog's life and are slaves to their pursuit, simply because
they have deceived themselves in this. I want you to be free and independent, to live your
own life and do what work you can in the world. There, I've said it, and of course you will
go right on. I know you. And maybe I am all wrong. When I see the story I may take the other
side and urge you to go on, even if you are as poor as a church-mouse, and have to be under
the harrow of poverty for years."

"Then you have some curiosity to see the story?"

"You know I have. And I know I shall like it. It isn't that, Phil; it is what is the happiest
career for you."

"Well, I will send it to you when it comes back."

But the unexpected happened. It did not come back. One morning Philip received a letter from
the publishers that set his head in a whirl. The story was accepted. The publisher wrote that
the verdict of the readers was favorable, and he would venture on it, though he cautioned Mr.
Burnett not to expect a great commercial success. And he added, as to terms, it being a new
name, though he hoped one that would become famous, that the copyright of ten per cent. would
not begin until after the sale of the first thousand copies.

The latter part of the letter made no impression on Philip. So long as the book was published,
and by a respectable firm, he was indifferent as a lord to the ignoble details of royalty.
The publisher had recognized the value of the book, and it was accepted on its merits. That
was enough. The first thing he did was to enclose the letter to Celia, with the simple remark
that he would try to sympathize with her in her disappointment.

Philip would have been a little less jubilant if he had known how the decision of the publishing
house was arrived at. It was true that the readers had reported favorably, but had refused
to express any opinion on the market value. The manuscript had therefore been put in the graveyard
of manuscripts, from which there is commonly no resurrection except in the funeral progress
of the manuscript back to the author. But the head of the house happened to dine at the house
of Mr. Hunt, the senior of Philip's law firm. Some chance allusion was made by a lady to an
article in a recent magazine which had pleased her more than anything she had seen lately.
Mr. Hunt also had seen it, for his wife had insisted on reading it to him, and he was proud
to say that the author was a clerk in his office--a fine fellow, who, he always fancied, had
more taste for literature than for law, but he had the stuff in him to succeed in anything.
The publisher pricked up his ears and asked some questions. He found that Mr. Burnett stood
well in the most prominent law firm in the city, that ladies of social position recognized
his talent, that he dined here and there in a good set, and that he belonged to one of the
best clubs. When he went to his office the next morning he sent for the manuscript, looked
it over critically, and then announced to his partners that he thought the thing was worth trying.

In a day or two it was announced in the advertising lists as forthcoming. There it stared Philip
in the face and seemed to be the only conspicuous thing in the journal. He had not paid much
attention before to the advertisements, but now this department seemed the most interesting
part of the paper, and he read every announcement, and then came back and read his over and
over. There it stood:--"On Saturday, The Puritan Nun. An Idyl. By Philip Burnett."

The naming of the book had been almost as difficult as the creation. His first choice had been
"The Lily of the Valley," but Balzac had pre-empted that. And then he had thought of "The Enclosed
Garden" (Hortus Clausus), the title of a lovely picture he had seen. That was Biblical, but
in the present ignorance of the old scriptures it would be thought either agricultural or sentimental.
It is not uncommon that a book owes its notoriety and sale to its title, and it is not easy
to find a title that will attract attention without being too sensational. The title chosen
was paradoxical, for while a nun might be a puritan, it was unthinkable that a Puritan should
be a nun.

Mr. Brad said he liked it, because it looked well and did not mean anything; he liked all such
titles, the "Pious Pirate," the "Lucid Lunatic," the "Sympathetic Siren," the "Guileless Girl,"
and so on.

The announcement of publication had the effect of putting Philip in high spirits for the Mavick
reception-spirits tempered, however, by the embarrassment natural to a modest man that he would
be painfully conspicuous. This first placarding of one's name is a peculiar and mixed sensation.
The letters seem shamefully naked, and the owner seems exposed and to have parted with a considerable
portion of his innate privacy. His first fancy is that everybody will see it. But this fancy
only comes once. With experience he comes to doubt if anybody except himself will see it.

To those most concerned the Mavick reception was the event of a lifetime. To the town--that
is, to a thousand or two persons occupying in their own eyes an exclusive position it was one
of the events of the season, and, indeed, it was the sensation for a couple of days. The historian
of social life formerly had put upon him the task of painfully describing all that went to
make such an occasion brilliant--the house itself, the decorations, the notable company, men
distinguished in the State or the Street, women as remarkable for their beauty as for their
courage in its exhibition, the whole world of fashion and of splendid extravagance upon which
the modiste and the tailor could look with as much pride as the gardener does upon a show of
flowers which his genius has brought to perfection.

The historian has no longer this responsibility. It is transferred to a kind of trust. A race
of skillful artists has arisen, who, in combination with the caterers, the decorators, and
the milliners, produce a composite piece of literature in which all details are woven into
a splendid whole--a composition rhetorical, humorous, lyrical, a noble apotheosis of wealth
and beauty which carefully satisfies individual vanity and raises in the mind a noble picture
of modern civilization. The pen and the pencil contribute to this splendid result in the daily
chronicle of our life. Those who are not present are really witnesses of the scene, and this
pictorial and literary triumph is justified in the fact that no other effort of the genius
of reproduction is so eagerly studied by the general public. Not only in the city, but in the
remote villages, these accounts are perused with interest, and it must be taken as an evidence
of the new conception of the duties of the favored of fortune to the public pleasure that the
participants in these fetes overcome, though reluctantly, their objection to notoriety.

No other people in the world are so hospitable as the Americans, and so willing to incur discomfort
in showing hospitality. No greater proof of this can be needed than the effort to give princely
entertainments in un-princely houses, where opposing streams of guests fight for progress in
scant passages and on narrow stairways, and pack themselves in stifling rooms. The Mavick house,
it should be said, was perfectly adapted to the throng that seemed to fill but did not crowd
it. The spacious halls, the noble stairways, the ample drawing-rooms, the ballroom, the music-room,
the library, the picture-gallery, the dining-room, the conservatory--into these the crowd flowed
or lingered without confusion or annoyance and in a continual pleasure of surprise. "The best
point of view," said an artist of Philip's acquaintance, "is just here." They were standing
in the great hall looking up at that noble gallery from which flowed down on either hand a
broad stairway.

"I didn't know there was so much beauty in New York. It never before had such an opportunity
to display itself. There is room for the exhibition of the most elaborate toilets, and the
costumes really look regal in such a setting."

When Philip was shown to the dressing-room, conscious that the servant was weighing him lightly
in the social scale on account of his early arrival, he found a few men who were waiting to
make their appearance more seasonable. They were young men, who had the air of being bored
by this sort of thing, and greeted each other with a look of courteous surprise, as much as
to say, "Hello! you here?" One of them, whom Philip knew slightly, who had the reputation of
being the distributer if not the fountain of social information, and had the power of attracting
gossip as a magnet does iron filings, gave Philip much valuable information concerning the
function.

"Mrs. Mavick has done it this time. Everybody has tumbled in. Washington is drained of its
foreign diplomats, the heavy part of the cabinet is moved over to represent the President,
who sent a gracious letter, the select from Boston, the most ancient from Philadelphia, and
I know that Chicago comes in a special train. Oh, it's the thing. I assure you there was a
scramble for invitations in the city. Lots of visiting nobility--Count de l'Auney, I know,
and that little snob, Lord Montague."

"Who is he?"

"Lord Crewe Monmouth Fitzwilliam, the Marquis of Montague, eldest son of the Duke of Tewkesbury.
He's a daisy.

"They say he is over here looking for capital to carry on his peer business when he comes into
it. Don't know who put up the money for the trip. These foreigners keep a sharp eye on our
market, I can tell you. They say she is a nice little girl, rather a blue-stocking, face rather
intelligent than pretty, but Montague won't care for that--excuse the old joke, but it is the
figure Monte is after. He hasn't any manners, but he's not a bad sort of a fellow, generally
good-natured, immensely pleased with New York, and an enthusiastic connoisseur in club drinks."

At the proper hour--the hour, it came into, his mind, when the dear ones at Rivervale had been
long in sleep, lulled by the musical flow of the Deerfield--Philip made his way to the reception
room, where there actually was some press of a crowd, in lines, to approach the attraction
of the evening, and as he waited his turn he had leisure to observe the brilliant scene. There
was scarcely a person in the room he knew. One or two ladies gave him a preoccupied nod, a
plain little woman whom he had talked with about books at a recent dinner smiled upon him encouragingly.
But what specially impressed him at the moment was the seriousness of the function, the intentness
upon the presentation, and the look of worry on the faces of the women in arranging trains
and avoiding catastrophes.

As he approached he fancied that Mr. Mavick looked weary and bored, and that a shade of abstraction
occasionally came over his face as if it were difficult to keep his thoughts on the changing line.

But his face lighted up a little when he took Philip's hand and exchanged with him the commonplaces
of the evening. But before this he had to wait a moment, for he was preceded by an important
personage. A dapper little figure, trim, neat, at the moment drew himself up before Mrs. Mavick,
brought his heels together with a click, and made a low bow. Doubtless this was the French
count. Mrs. Mavick was radiant. Philip had never seen her in such spirits or so fascinating
in manner.

"It is a great honor, count."

"It ees to me," said the count, with a marked accent; "I assure you it is like Paris in ze
time of ze monarchy. Ah, ze Great Republic, madame--so it was in France in ze ancien regime.
Ah, mademoiselle! Permit me," and he raised her hand to his lips; "I salute--is it not" (turning
to Mrs. Mavick)--"ze princess of ze house?"

The next man who shook hands with the host, and then stood in an easy attitude before the hostess,
attracted Philip's attention strongly, for he fancied from the deference shown him it must
be the lord of whom he had heard. He was a short, little man, with heavy limbs and a clumsy
figure, reddish hair, very thin on the crown, small eyes that were not improved in expression
by white eyebrows, a red face, smooth shaven and freckled. It might have been the face of a
hostler or a billiard-marker.

"I am delighted, my lord, that you could make room in your engagements to come."

"Ah, Mrs. Mavick, I wouldn't have missed it," said my lord, with easy assurance; "I'd have
thrown over anything to have come. And, do you know" (looking about him coolly), "it's quite
English, 'pon my honor, quite English--St. James and that sort of thing."

"You flatter me, my lord," replied the lady of the house, with a winning smile.

"No, I do assure you, it's bang-up. Ah, Miss Mavick, delighted, delighted. Most charming. Lucky
for me, wasn't it? I'm just in time."

"You've only recently come over, Lord Montague?" asked Evelyn.

"Been here before--Rockies, shooting, all that. Just arrived now--beastly trip, beastly."

"And so you were glad to land?"

"Glad to land anywhere. But New York suits me down to the ground. It goes, as you say over
here. You know Paris?"

"We have been in Paris. You prefer it?"

"For some thing. Paris as it was in the Empire. For sport, no. For horses, no. And" (looking
boldly into her face) "when you speak of American women, Paris ain't in it, as you say over here."

And the noble lord, instead of passing on, wheeled about and took a position near Evelyn, so
that he could drop his valuable observations into her ear as occasion offered.

To Philip Mrs. Mavick was civil, but she did not beam upon him, and she did not detain him
longer than to say, "Glad to see you." But Evelyn--could Philip be deceived?--she gave him
her hand cordially and looked into his eyes trustfully, as she had the habit of doing in the
country, and as if it were a momentary relief to her to encounter in all this parade a friend.

"I need not say that I am glad you could come. And oh" (there was time only for a word), "I
saw the announcement. Later, if you can, you will tell me more about it."

Lord Montague stared at him as if to say, "Who the deuce are you?" and as Philip met his gaze
he thought, "No, he hasn't the manner of a stable boy; no one but a born nobleman could be
so confident with women and so supercilious to men."

But my lord, was little in his thought. It was the face of Evelyn that he saw, and the dainty
little figure; the warmth of the little hand still thrilled him. So simple, and only a bunch
of violets in her corsage for all ornament! The clear, dark complexion, the sweet mouth, the
wonderful eyes! What could Jenks mean by intimating that she was plain?

Philip drifted along with the crowd. He was very much alone. And he enjoyed his solitude. A
word and a smile now and then from an acquaintance did not tempt him to come out of his seclusion.
The gay scene pleased him. He looked for a moment into the ballroom. At another time he would
have tried his fortune in the whirl. But now he looked on as at a spectacle from which he was
detached. He had had his moment and he waited for another. The voluptuous music, the fascinating
toilets, the beautiful faces, the graceful forms that were woven together in this shifting
kaleidoscope, were, indeed, a part of his beautiful dream. But how unreal they all were! There
was no doubt that Evelyn's eyes had kindled for him as for no one else whom she had greeted.
She singled him out in all this crush, her look, the cordial pressure of her hand, conveyed
the feeling of comradeship and understanding. This was enough to fill his thought with foolish
anticipations. Is there any being quite so happy, quite so stupid, as a lover? A lover, who
hopes everything and fears everything, who goes in an instant from the heights of bliss to
the depths of despair.

When the "reception" was over and the company was breaking up into groups and moving about,
Philip again sought Evelyn. But she was the centre of a somewhat noisy group, and it was not
easy to join it.

Yet it was something that he could feast his eyes on her and was rewarded by a look now and
then that told him she was conscious of his presence. Encouraged by this, he was making his
way to her, when there was a movement towards the supper-room, and Mrs. Mavick had taken the
arm of the Count de l'Auney, and the little lord was jauntily leading away Evelyn. Philip had
a pang of disgust and jealousy. Evelyn was actually chatting with him and seemed amused. Lord
Montague was evidently laying himself out to please and exerting all the powers of his subtle
humor and exploiting his newly acquired slang. That Philip could hear as they moved past him.
"The brute!" Philip said to himself, with the injustice which always clouds the estimate of
a lover of a rival whose accomplishments differ from his own.

In the supper-room, however, in the confusion and crowding of it, Philip at length found his
opportunity to get to the side of Evelyn, whose smile showed him that he was welcome. It was
in that fortunate interval when Lord Montague was showing that devotion to women was not incompatible
with careful attention to terrapin and champagne. Philip was at once inspired to say:

"How lovely it is! Aren't you tired?"

"Not at all. Everybody is very kind, and some are very amusing. I am learning a great deal,"
and there was a quizzical look in her eyes, "about the world."

"Well," said Philip, "t's all here."

"I suppose so. But do you know," and there was quite an ingenuous blush in her cheeks as she
said it, "it isn't half so nice, Mr. Burnett, as a picnic in Zoar."

"So you remember that?" Philip had not command of himself enough not to attempt the sentimental.

"You must think I have a weak memory," she replied, with a laugh. "And the story? When shall
we have it?"

"Soon, I hope. And, Miss Mavick, I owe so much of it to you that I hope you will let me send
you the very first copy from the press."

"Will you? And do you Of course I shall be pleased and" (making him a little curtsy) "honored,
as one ought to say in this company."

Lord Montague was evidently getting uneasy, for his attention was distracted from the occupation
of feeding.

"No, don't go Lord Montague, an old friend, Mr. Burnett."

"Much pleased," said his lordship, looking round rather inquiringly at the intruder. "I can't
say much for the champagne--ah, not bad, you know--but I always said that your terrapin isn't
half so nasty as it looks." And his lordship laughed most good-humoredly, as if he were paying
the American nation a deserved compliment.

"Yes," said Philip, "we have to depend upon France for the champagne, but the terrapin is native."

"Quite so, and devilish good! That ain't bad, 'depend upon France for the champagne!' There
is nothing like your American humor, Miss Mavick."

"It needs an Englishman to appreciate it," replied Evelyn, with a twinkle in her eyes which
was lost upon her guest.

In the midst of these courtesies Philip bowed himself away. The party was over for him, though
he wandered about for a while, was attracted again by the music to the ballroom, and did find
there a dinner acquaintance with whom he took a turn. The lady must have thought him a very
uninteresting or a very absent-minded companion.

As for Lord Montague, after he had what he called a "go" in the dancing-room, he found his
way back to the buffet in the supper-room, and the historian says that he greatly enjoyed himself,
and was very amusing, and that he cultivated the friendship of an obliging waiter early in
the morning, who conducted his lordship to his cab.

XVII

The morning after The Puritan Nun was out, as Philip sat at his office desk, conscious that
the eyes of the world were on him, Mr. Mavick entered, bowed to him absent-mindedly, and was
shown into Mr. Hunt's room.

Philip had dreaded to come to the office that morning and encounter the inquisition and perhaps
the compliments of his fellow-clerks. He had seen his name in staring capitals in the book-seller's
window as he came down, and he felt that it was shamefully exposed to the public gaze, and
that everybody had seen it. The clerks, however, gave no sign that the event had disturbed
them. He had encountered many people he knew on the street, but there had been no recognition
of his leap into notoriety. Not a fellow in the club, where he had stopped a moment, had treated
him with any increased interest or deference. In the office only one person seemed aware of
his extraordinary good fortune. Mr. Tweedle had come to the desk and offered his hand in his
usual conciliatory and unctuous manner.

"I see by the paper, Mr. Burnett, that we are an author. Let me congratulate you. Mrs. Tweedle
told me not to come home without bringing your story. Who publishes it?"

"I shall be much honored," said Philip, blushing, "if Mrs. Tweedle will accept a copy from me."

"I didn't mean that, Mr. Burnett; but, of course, gift of the author--Mrs. Tweedle will be
very much pleased."

In half an hour Mr. Mavick came out, passed him without recognition, and hurried from the office,
and Philip was summoned to Mr. Hunt's room.

"I want you to go to Washington immediately, Mr. Burnett. Return by the night train. You can
do without your grip? Take these papers to Buckston Higgins--you see the address--who represents
the British Argentine syndicate. Wait till he reads them and get his reply. Here is the money
for the trip. Oh, after Mr. Higgins writes his answer, ask him if you can telegraph me 'yes'
or 'no.' Good-morning."

While Philip was speeding to Washington, an important conference was taking place in Murad
Ault's office. He was seated at his desk, and before him lay two despatches, one from Chicago
and a cable from London. Opposite him, leaning forward in his chair, was a lean, hatchet-faced
man, with keen eyes and aquiline nose, who watched his old curbstone confidant like a cat.

"I tell you, Wheatstone," said Mr. Ault, with an unmoved face, bringing his fist down on the
table, "now is the time to sell these three stocks."

"Why," said Mr. Wheatstone, with a look of wonder, "they are about the strongest on the list.
Mavick controls them."

"Does he?" said Ault. "Then he can take care of them."

"Have you any news, Mr. Ault?"

"Nothing to speak of," replied Ault, grimly. "It just looks so to me. All you've got to do
is to sell. Make a break this afternoon, about two or three points off."

"They are too strong," protested Mr. Wheatstone.

"That is just the reason. Everybody will think something must be the matter, or nobody would
be fool enough to sell. You keep your eye on the Spectrum this afternoon and tomorrow morning.
About Organization and one or two other matters."

"Ah, they do say that Mavick is in Argentine up to his neck," said the broker, beginning to
be enlightened.

"Is he? Then you think he would rather sell than buy?"

Mr. Wheatstone laughed and looked admiringly at his leader. "He may have to."

Mr. Ault took up the cable cipher and read it to himself again. If Mr. Hunt had known its contents
he need not have waited for Philip to telegraph "no" from Washington.

"It's all right, Wheatstone. It's the biggest thing you ever struck. Pitch 'em overboard in
the morning. The Street is shaky about Argentine. There'll be h---to pay before half past twelve.
I guess you can safely go ten points. Lower yet, if Mavick's brokers begin to unload. I guess
he will have to unless he can borrow. Rumor is a big thing, especially in a panic, eh? Keep
your eye peeled. And, oh, won't you ask Babcock to step round here?"

Mr. Babcock came round, and had his instructions when to buy. He had the reputation of being
a reckless broker, and not a safe man to follow.

The panic next day, both in London and New York, was long remembered. In the unreasoning scare
the best stocks were sacrificed. Small country "investors" lost their stakes. Some operators
were ruined. Many men were poorer at the end of the scrimmage, and a few were richer. Murad
Ault was one of the latter. Mavick pulled through, though at an enormous cost, and with some
diminution of the notion of his solidity. The wise ones suspected that his resources had been
overestimated, or that they were not so well at his command as had been supposed.

When he went home that night he looked five years older, and was too worn and jaded to be civil
to his family. The dinner passed mostly in silence. Carmen saw that something serious had happened.
Lord Montague had called.

"Eh, what did he want?" said Mavick, surlily.

Carmen looked up surprised. "What does anybody after a reception call for?"

"The Lord only knows."

"He is the funniest little man," Evelyn ventured to say.

"That is no way, child, to speak of the son of a duke," said Mavick, relaxing a little.

Carmen did not like the tone in which this was said, but she prudently kept silent. And presently
Evelyn continued:

"He asked for you, papa, and said he wanted to pay his respects."

"I am glad he wants to pay anything," was the ungracious answer. Still Evelyn was not to be
put down.

"It was such a bright day in the Park. What were you doing all day, papa?"

"Why, my dear, I was engaged in Research; you will be pleased to know. Looking after those
ten millions."

When the dinner was over, Carmen followed Mr. Mavick to his study.

"What is the matter, Tom?"

"Nothing uncommon. It's a beastly hole down there. The Board used to be made up of gentlemen.
Now there are such fellows as Ault, a black-hearted scoundrel."

"But he has no influence. He is nothing socially," said Carmen.

"Neither is a wolf or a cyclone. But I don't care to talk about him. Don't you see, I don't
want to be bothered?"

While these great events were taking place Philip was enjoying all the tremors and delights
of expectation which attend callow authorship. He did not expect much, he said to himself,
but deep down in his heart there was that sweet hope, which fortunately always attends young
writers, that his would be an exceptional experience in the shoal of candidates for fame, and
he was secretly preparing himself not to be surprised if he should "awake one morning and find
himself famous."

The first response was from Celia. She wrote warm-heartedly. She wrote at length, analyzing
the characters, recalling the striking scenes, and praising without stint the conception and
the working out of the character of the heroine. She pointed out the little faults of construction
and of language, and then minimized them in comparison with the noble motive and the unity
and beauty of the whole. She told Philip that she was proud of him, and then insisted that,
when his biography, life, and letters was published, it would appear, she hoped, that his dear
friend had just a little to do with inspiring him. It was exactly the sort of letter an author
likes to receive, critical, perfectly impartial, and with entire understanding of his purpose.
All the author wants is to be understood.

The letter from Alice was quite of another sort, a little shy in speaking of the story, but
full of affection. "Perhaps, dear Phil," she wrote, "I ought not to tell you how much I like
it, how it quite makes me blush in its revelation of the secrets of a New England girl's heart.
I read it through fast, and then I read it again slowly. It seemed better even the second time.
I do think, Phil, it is a dear little book. Patience says she hopes it will not become common;
it is too fine to be nosed about by the ordinary. I suppose you had to make it pathetic. Dear
me! that is just the truth of it. Forgive me for writing so freely. I hope it will not be long
before we see you. To think it is done by little Phil!"

The most eagerly expected acknowledgment was, however, a disappointment. Philip knew Mrs. Mavick
too well by this time to expect a letter from her daughter, but there might have been a line.
But Mrs. Mavick wrote herself. Her daughter, she said, had asked her to acknowledge the receipt
of his very charming story. When he had so many friends it was very thoughtful in him to remember
the acquaintances of last summer. She hoped the book would have the success it deserved.

This polite note was felt to be a slap in the face, but the effect of it was softened a little
later by a cordial and appreciative letter from Miss McDonald, telling the author what great
delight and satisfaction they had had in reading it, and thanking him for a prose idyl that
showed in the old-fashioned way that common life was not necessarily vulgar.

The critics seemed to Philip very slow in letting the public know of the birth of the book.
Presently, however, the little notices, all very much alike, began to drop along, longer or
shorter paragraphs, commonly in undiscriminating praise of the beauty of the story, the majority
of them evidently written by reviewers who sat down to a pile of volumes to be turned off,
and who had not more than five or ten minutes to be lost. Rarely, however, did any one condemn
it, and that showed that it was harmless. Mr. Brad had given it quite a lift in the Spectrum.
The notice was mainly personal--the first work of a brilliant young man at the bar who was
destined to go high in his profession, unless literature should, fortunately for the public,
have stronger attractions for him. That such a country idyl should be born amid law-books was
sufficiently remarkable. It was an open secret that the scene of the story was the birthplace
of the author--a lovely village that was brought into notice a summer ago as the chosen residence
of Thomas Mavick and his family.

Eagerly looked for at first, the newspaper notices soon palled upon Philip, the uniform tone
of good-natured praise, unanimous in the extravagance of unmeaning adjectives. Now and then
he welcomed one that was ill-natured and cruelly censorious. That was a relief. And yet there
were some reviews of a different sort, half a dozen in all, and half of them from Western journals,
which took the book seriously, saw its pathos, its artistic merit, its failure of construction
through inexperience. A few commended it warmly to readers who loved ideal purity and could
recognize the noble in common life. And some, whom Philip regarded as authorities, welcomed
a writer who avoided sensationalism, and predicted for him an honorable career in letters,
if he did not become self-conscious and remained true to his ideals. The book clearly had not
made a hit, the publishers had sold one edition and ordered half another, and no longer regarded
the author as a risk. But, better than this, the book had attracted the attention of many lovers
of literature. Philip was surprised day after day by meeting people who had read it. His name
began to be known in a small circle who are interested in the business, and it was not long
before he had offers from editors, who were always on the lookout for new writers of promise,
to send something for their magazines. And, perhaps more flattering than all, he began to have
society invitations to dine, and professional invitations to those little breakfasts that publishers
give to old writers and to young whose names are beginning to be spoken of. All this was very
exhilarating and encouraging. And yet Philip was not allowed to be unduly elated by the attention
of his fellow-craftsmen, for he soon found that a man's consequence in this circle, as well
as with the great public, depended largely upon the amount of the sale of his book. How else
should it be rated, when a very popular author, by whom Philip sat one day at luncheon, confessed
that he never read books?

"So," said Mr. Sharp, one morning, "I see you have gone into literature, Mr. Burnett."

"Not very deep," replied Philip with a smile, as he rose from his desk.

"Going to drop law, eh?"

"I haven't had occasion to drop much of anything yet," said Philip, still smiling.

"Oh well, two masters, you know," and Mr. Sharp passed on to his room.

It was not, however, Mr. Sharp's opinion that Philip was concerned about. The polite note from
Mrs. Mavick stuck in his mind. It was a civil way of telling him that all summer debts were
now paid, and that his relations with the house of Mavick were at an end. This conclusion was
forced upon him when he left his card, a few days after the reception, and had the ill luck
not to find the ladies at home. The situation had no element of tragedy in it, but Philip was
powerless. He could not storm the house. He had no visible grievance. There was nothing to
fight. He had simply run against one of the invisible social barriers that neither offer resistance
nor yield. No one had shown him any discourtesy that society would recognize as a matter of
offense. Nay, more than that, it could have no sympathy with him. It was only the case of a
presumptuous and poor young man who was after a rich girl. The position itself was ignoble,
if it were disclosed.

Yet fortune, which sometimes likes to play the mischief with the best social arrangements,
did give Philip an unlooked-for chance. At a dinner given by the lady who had been Philip's
only partner at the Mavick reception, and who had read his story and had written to "her partner"
a most kind little note regretting that she had not known she was dancing with an author, and
saying that she and her husband would be delighted to make his acquaintance, Philip was surprised
by the presence of the Mavicks in the drawing-room. Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Mavick seemed especially
pleased when they encountered him, and in fact his sole welcome from the family was in the
eyes of Evelyn.

The hostess had supposed that the Mavicks would be pleased to meet the rising author, and in
still further carrying out her benevolent purpose, and with, no doubt, a sympathy in the feelings
of the young, Mrs. Van Cortlandt had assigned Miss Mavick to Mr. Burnett. It was certainly
a natural arrangement, and yet it called a blank look to Mrs. Mavick's face, that Philip saw,
and put her in a bad humor which needed an effort for her to conceal it from Mr. Van Cortlandt.
The dinner-party was large, and her ill-temper was not assuaged by the fact that the young
people were seated at a distance from her and on the same side of the table.

"How charming your daughter is looking, Mrs. Mavick!" Mr. Van Cortlandt began, by way of being
agreeable. Mrs. Mavick inclined her head. "That young Burnett seems to be a nice sort of chap;
Mrs. Van Cortlandt says he is very clever."

"Yes?"

"I haven't read his book. They say he is a lawyer."

"Lawyer's clerk, I believe," said Mrs. Mavick, indifferently.

"Authors are pretty plenty nowadays."

"That's a fact. Everybody writes. I don't see how all the poor devils live." Mr. Van Cortlandt
had now caught the proper tone, and the conversation drifted away from personalities.

It was a very brilliant dinner, but Philip could not have given much account of it. He made
an effort to be civil to his left-hand neighbor, and he affected an ease in replying to cross-table
remarks. He fancied that he carried himself very well, and so he did for a man unexpectedly
elevated to the seventh heaven, seated for two hours beside the girl whose near presence filled
him with indescribable happiness. Every look, every tone of her voice thrilled him. How dear
she was! how adorable she was! How radiantly happy she seemed to be whenever she turned her
face towards him to ask a question or to make a reply!

At moments his passion seemed so overmastering that he could hardly restrain himself from whispering,
"Evelyn, I love you." In a hundred ways he was telling her so. And she must understand. She
must know that this was not an affair of the moment, but that there was condensed in it all
the constant devotion of months and months.

A woman, even any girl with the least social experience, would have seen this. Was Evelyn's
sympathetic attention, her evident enjoyment in talking with him, any evidence of a personal
interest, or only a young girl's enjoyment of her new position in the world? That she liked
him he was sure. Did she, was she beginning in any degree to return his passion? He could not
tell, for guilelessness in a woman is as impenetrable as coquetry.

Of what did they talk? A stenographer would have made a meagre report of it, for the most significant
part of this conversation of two fresh, honest natures was not in words. One thing, however,
Philip could bring away with him that was not a mere haze of delicious impressions. She had
been longing, she said, to talk to him about his story. She told him how eagerly she had read
it, and in talking about its meaning she revealed to him her inner thought more completely
than she could have done in any other way, her sympathy with his mind, her interest in his work.

"Have you begun another?" she asked, at last.

"No, not on paper."

"But you must. It must be such a world to you. I can't imagine anything so fine as that. There
is so much about life to be said. To make people see it as it is; yes, and as it ought to be.
Will you?"

"You forget that I am a lawyer."

"And you prefer to be that, a lawyer, rather than an author?"

"It is not exactly what I prefer, Miss Mavick."

"Why not? Does anybody do anything well if his heart is not in it?"

"But circumstances sometimes compel a man."

"I like better for men to compel circumstances," the girl exclaimed, with that disposition
to look at things in the abstract that Philip so well remembered.

"Perhaps I do not make myself understood. One must have a career."

"A career?" And Evelyn looked puzzled for a moment. "You mean for himself, for his own self?"
There is a lawyer who comes to see papa. I've been in the room sometimes, when they don't mind.
Such talk about schemes, and how to do this and that, and twisting about. And not a word about
anything any of the time. And one day when he was waiting for papa I talked with him. You would
have been surprised.

"I told papa that I could not find anything to interest him. Papa laughed and said it was my
fault, he was one of the sharpest lawyers in the city. Would you rather be that than to write?"

"Oh, all lawyers are not like that. And, don't you know, literature doesn't pay."

"Yes, I have heard that." And then she thought a minute and with a quizzical look continued:
"That is such a queer word, 'pay.' McDonald says that it pays to be good. Do you think, Mr.
Burnett, that law would pay you?"

Evidently the girl had a standard of judging people that was not much in use.

Before they rose from the table, Philip asked, speaking low, "Miss Mavick, won't you give me
a violet from your bunch in memory of this evening?"

Evelyn hesitated an instant, and then, without looking up, disengaged three, and shyly laid
them at her left hand. "I like the number three better."

Philip covered the flowers with his hand, and said, "I will keep them always."

"That is a long time," Evelyn answered, but still without looking up. But when they rose the
color mounted to her cheeks, and Philip thought that the glorious eyes turned upon him were
full of trust.

"It is all your doing," said Carmen, snappishly, when Mavick joined her in the drawing-room.

"What is?"

"You insisted upon having him at the reception."

"Burnett? Oh, stuff, he isn't a fool!"

There was not much said as the three drove home. Evelyn, flushed with pleasure and absorbed
in her own thoughts, saw that something had gone wrong with her mother and kept silent. Mr.
Mavick at length broke the silence with:

"Did you have a good time, child?"

"Oh, yes," replied Evelyn, cheerfully, "and Mrs. Van Cortlandt was very sweet to me. Don't
you think she is very hospitable, mamma?"

"Tries to be," Mrs. Mavick replied, in no cordial tone. "Good-natured and eccentric. She picks
up the queerest lot of people. You can never know whom you will not meet at her house. Just
now she goes in for being literary."

Evelyn was not so reticent with McDonald. While she was undressing she disclosed that she had
had a beautiful evening, that she was taken out by Mr. Burnett, and talked about his story.

"And, do you know, I think I almost persuaded him to write another."

"It's an awful responsibility," dryly said the shrewd Scotch woman, "advising young men what
to do."

XVIII

Upon the recollection of this dinner Philip maintained his hope and courage for a long time.
The day after it, New York seemed more brilliant to him than it had ever been. In the afternoon
he rode down to the Battery. It was a mild winter day, with a haze in the atmosphere that softened
all outlines and gave an enchanting appearance to the harbor shores. The water was silvery,
and he watched a long time the craft plying on it--the businesslike ferry-boats, the spiteful
tugs, the great ocean steamers, boldly pushing out upon the Atlantic through the Narrows or
cautiously drawing in as if weary with the buffeting of the waves. The scene kindled in him
a vigorous sense of life, of prosperity, of longing for the activity of the great world.

Clearly he must do something and not be moping in indecision. Uncertainty is harder to bear
than disaster itself. When he thought of Evelyn, and he always thought of her, it seemed cowardly
to hesitate. Celia, after her first outburst of enthusiasm, had returned to her cautious advice.
The law was much surer. Literature was a mere chance. Why not be content with his little success
and buckle down to his profession? Perhaps by-and-by he would have leisure to indulge his inclination.
The advice seemed sound.

But there was Evelyn, with her innocent question.

"Would the law pay you?" Evelyn? Would he be more likely to win her by obeying the advice of
Celia, or by trusting to Evelyn's inexperienced discernment? Indeed, what chance was there
to win her at all? What had he to offer her?

His spirits invariably fell when he thought of submitting his pretensions to the great man
of Wall Street or to his worldly wife. Already it was the gossip of the clubs that Lord Montague
was a frequent visitor at the Mavicks', that he was often seen in their box at the opera, and
that Mrs. Mavick had said to Bob Shafter that it was a scandal to talk of Lord Montague as
a fortune-hunter. He was a most kind-hearted, domestic man. She should not join in the newspaper
talk about him. He belonged to an old English family, and she should be civil to him. Generally
she did not fancy Englishmen, and this one she liked neither better nor worse because he had
a title. And when you came to that, why shouldn't any American girl marry her equal?

As to Montague, he was her friend, and she knew that he had not the least intention at present
of marrying anybody. And then the uncharitable gossip went on, that there was the Count de
l'Auney, and that Mrs. Mavick was playing the one off against the other.

As the days went on and spring began to appear in the light, fleeting clouds in the blue sky
and in the greening foliage in the city squares, Philip became more and more restless. The
situation was intolerable. Evelyn he could never see. Perhaps she wondered that he made no
effort to see her. Perhaps she never thought of him at all, and simply, like an obedient child,
accepted her mother's leading, and was getting to like that society life which was recorded
in the daily journals. What did it matter to him whether he stuck to the law or launched himself
into the Bohemia of literature, so long as doubt about Evelyn haunted him day and night? If
she was indifferent to him, he would know the worst, and go about his business like a man.
Who were the Mavicks, anyway?

Alice had written him once that Evelyn was a dear girl, no one could help loving her; but she
did not like the blood of father and mother. "And remember, Phil--you must let me say this--there
is not a drop of mean blood in your ancestors."

Philip smiled at this. He was not in love with Mrs. Mavick nor with her husband. They were
for him simply guardians of a treasure he very much coveted, and yet they were to a certain
extent ennobled in his mind as the authors of the being he worshiped. If it should be true
that his love for her was returned, it would not be possible even for them to insist upon a
course that would make their daughter unhappy for life. They might reject him--no doubt he
was a wholly unequal match for the heiress--but could they, to the very end, be cruel to her?

Thus the ingenuous young man argued with himself, until it seemed plain to him that if Evelyn
loved him, and the conviction grew that she did, all obstacles must give way to this overmastering
passion of his life. If he were living in a fool's paradise he would know it, and he ventured
to put his fortune to the test of experiment. The only manly course was to gain the consent
of the parents to ask their daughter to marry him; if not that, then to be permitted to see
her. He was nobly resolved to pledge himself to make no proposals to her without their approval.

This seemed a very easy thing to do until he attempted it. He would simply happen into Mr.
Mavick's office, and, as Mr. Mavick frequently talked familiarly with him, he would contrive
to lead the conversation to Evelyn, and make his confession. He mapped out the whole conversation,
and even to the manner in which he would represent his own prospects and ambitions and his
hopes of happiness. Of course Mr. Mavick would evade, and say that it would be a long time
before they should think of disposing of their daughter's hand, and that--well, he must see
himself that he was in no position to support a wife accustomed to luxury; in short, that one
could not create situations in real life as he could in novels, that personally he could give
him no encouragement, but that he would consult his wife.

This dream got no further than a private rehearsal. When he called at Mr. Mavick's office he
learned that Mr. Mavick had gone to the Pacific coast, and that he would probably be absent
several weeks. But Philip could not wait. He resolved to end his torture by a bold stroke.
He wrote to Mrs. Mavick, saying that he had called at Mr. Mavick's office, and, not finding
him at home, he begged that she would give him an interview concerning a matter of the deepest
personal interest to himself.

Mrs. Mavick understood in an instant what this meant. She had feared it. Her first impulse
was to write him a curt note of a character that would end at once all intercourse. On second
thought she determined to see him, to discover how far the affair had gone, and to have it
out with him once for all. She accordingly wrote that she would have a few minutes at half
past five the next day.

As Philip went up the steps of the Mavick house at the appointed hour, he met coming out of
the door--and it seemed a bad omen--Lord Montague, who seemed in high spirits, stared at Philip
without recognition, whistled for his cab, and drove away.

Mrs. Mavick received him politely, and, without offering her hand, asked him to be seated.
Philip was horribly embarrassed. The woman was so cool, so civil, so perfectly indifferent.
He stammered out something about the weather and the coming spring, and made an allusion to
the dinner at Mrs. Van Cortlandt's. Mrs. Mavick was not in the mood to help him with any general
conversation, and presently said, looking at her watch:

"You wrote me that you wanted to consult me. Is there anything I can do for you?"

"It was a personal matter," said Philip, getting control of himself.

"So you wrote. Mr. Mavick is away, and if it is in regard to anything in your office, any promotion,
you know, I don't understand anything about business." And Mrs. Mavick smiled graciously.

"No, it is not about the office. I should not think of troubling my friends in that way. It
is just that--"

"Oh, I see," Mrs. Mavick interrupted, with good-humor, "it's about the novel. I hear that it
has sold very well. And you are not certain whether its success will warrant your giving up
your clerkship. Now as for me," and she leaned back in her chair, with the air of weighing
the chances in her mind, "it doesn't seem to me that a writer--"

"No, it is not that," said Philip, leaning forward and looking her full in the face with all
the courage he could summon, "it is your daughter."

"What!" cried Mrs. Mavick, in a tone of incredulous surprise.

"I was afraid you would think me very presumptuous."

"Presumptuous! Why, she is a child. Do you know what you are talking about?"

"My mother married at eighteen," said Philip, gently.

"That is an interesting piece of information, but I don't see its bearing. Will you tell me,
Mr. Burnett, what nonsense you have got into your head?"

"I want," and Philip spoke very gently--"I want, Mrs. Mavick, permission to see your daughter."

"Ah! I thought in Rivervale, Mr. Burnett, that you were a gentleman. You presume upon my invitation
to this house, in an underhand way, to--What right have you?"

Mrs. Mavick was so beside herself that she could hardly speak. The lines in her face deepened
into wrinkles and scowls. There was something malevolent and mean in it. Philip was astonished
at the transformation. And she looked old and ugly in her passion.

"You!" she repeated.

"It is only this, Mrs. Mavick," and Philip spoke calmly, though his blood was boiling at her
insulting manner--"it is only this--I love your daughter."

"And you have told her this?"

"No, never, never a word."

"Does she know anything of this absurd, this silly attempt?"

"I am afraid not."

"Ah! Then you have spared yourself one humiliation. My daughter's affections are not likely
to be placed where her parents do not approve. Her mother is her only confidante. I can tell
you, Mr. Burnett, and when you are over this delusion you will thank me for being so plain
with you, my daughter would laugh at the idea of such a proposal. But I will not have her annoyed
by impecunious aspirants."

"Madam!" cried Philip, rising, with a flushed face, and then he remembered that he was talking
to Evelyn's mother, and uttered no other word.

"This is ended." And then, with a slight change of manner, she went on: "You must see how impossible
it is. You are a man of honor.

"I should like to think well of you. I shall trust to your honor that you will never try, by
letter or otherwise, to hold any communication with her."

"I shall obey you," said Philip, quite stiffly, "because you are her mother. But I love her,
and I shall always love her."

Mrs. Mavick did not condescend to any reply to this, but she made a cold bow of dismissal and
turned away from him. He left the house and walked away, scarcely knowing in which direction
he went, anger for a time being uppermost in his mind, chagrin and defeat following, and with
it the confused feeling of a man who has passed through a cyclone and been landed somewhere
amid the scattered remnants of his possessions.

As he strode away he was intensely humiliated. He had been treated like an inferior. He had
voluntarily put himself in a position to be insulted. Contempt had been poured upon him, his
feelings had been outraged, and there was no way in which he could show his resentment. Presently,
as his anger subsided, he began to look at the matter more sanely. What had happened? He had
made an honorable proposal. But what right had he to expect that it would be favorably considered?
He knew all along that it was most unlikely that Mrs. Mavick would entertain for a moment idea
of such a match. He knew what would be the unanimous opinion of society about it. In the case
of any other young man aspiring to the hand of a rich girl, he knew very well what he should
have thought.

Well, he had done nothing dishonorable. And as he reviewed the bitter interview he began to
console himself with the thought that he had not lost his temper, that he had said nothing
to be regretted, nothing that he should not have said to the mother of the girl he loved. There
was an inner comfort in this, even if his life were ruined.

Mrs. Mavick, on the contrary, had not so good reason to be satisfied with herself. It was a
principle of her well-ordered life never to get into a passion, never to let herself go, never
to reveal herself by intemperate speech, never to any one, except occasionally to her husband
when his cold sarcasm became intolerable. She felt, as soon as the door closed on Philip, that
she had made a blunder, and yet in her irritation she committed a worse one. She went at once
to Evelyn's room, resolved to make it perfectly sure that the Philip episode was ended. She
had had suspicions about her daughter ever since the Van Cortlandt dinner. She would find out
if they were justified, and she would act decidedly before any further mischief was done. Evelyn
was alone, and her mother kissed her fondly several times and then threw herself into an easy-chair
and declared she was tired.

"My dear, I have had such an unpleasant interview."

"I am sorry," said Evelyn, seating herself on the arm of the chair and putting her arm round
her mother's neck. "With whom, mamma?"

"Oh, with that Mr. Burnett." Mrs. Mavick felt a nervous start in the arm that caressed her.

"Here?"

"Yes, he came to see your father, I fancy, about some business. I think he is not getting on
very well."

"Why, his book--"

"I know, but that amounts to nothing. There is not much chance for a lawyer's clerk who gets
bitten with the idea that he can write."

"If he was in trouble, mamma," said Evelyn, softly, "then you were good to him."

"I tried to be," Mrs. Mavick half sighed, "but you can't do anything with such people" (by
'such people' Mrs. Mavick meant those who have no money) "when they don't get on. They are
never reasonable. And he was in such an awful bad temper. You cannot show any kindness to such
people without exposing yourself. I think he presumes upon his acquaintance with your father.
It was most disagreeable, and he was so rude" (a little thrill in the arm again)--"well, not
exactly rude, but he was not a bit nice to me, and I am afraid I showed by my looks that I
was irritated. He was just as disagreeable as he could be.

"He met Lord Montague on the steps, and he had something spiteful to say about him. I had to
tell him he was presuming a good deal on his acquaintance, and that I considered his manner
insulting. He flung out of the house very high and mighty."

"That was not a bit like him, mamma."

"We didn't know him. That is all. Now we do, and I am thankful we do. He will never come here
again."

Evelyn was very still for a moment, and then she said: "I'm very sorry for it all. It must
be some misunderstanding."

"Of course, it is dreadful to be so disappointed in people. But we have to learn. I don't know
anything about his misunderstanding, but I did not misunderstand what he said. At any rate,
after such an exposition we can have no further intercourse with him. You will not care to
see any one who treated your mother in this way? If you love me, you cannot be friendly with
him. I know you would not like to be."

Evelyn did not reply for a moment. Her silence revealed the fact to the shrewd woman that she
had not intervened a day too soon.

"You promise me, dear, that you will put the whole thing out of your mind?" and she drew her
daughter closer to her and kissed her.

And then Evelyn said slowly: "I shall not have any friends whom you do not approve, but, mamma,
I cannot be unjust in my mind."

And Mrs. Mavick had the good sense not to press the question further. She still regarded Evelyn
as a child. Her naivete, her simplicity, her ignorance of social conventions and of the worldly
wisdom which to Mrs. Mavick was the sum of all knowledge misled her mother as to her power
of discernment and her strength of character. Indeed, Mrs. Mavick had only the slightest conception
of that range of thought and feeling in which the girl habitually lived, and of the training
which at the age of eighteen had given her discipline, and great maturity of judgment as well.
She would be obedient, but she was incapable of duplicity, and therefore she had said as plainly
as possible that whatever the trouble might be she would not be unjust to Philip.

The interview with her mother left her in a very distressed state of mind. It is a horrible
disillusion when a girl begins to suspect that her mother is not sincere, and that her ideals
of life are mean. This knowledge may exist with the deepest affection--indeed, in a noble mind,
with an inward tenderness and an almost divine pity. How many times have we seen a daughter
loyal to a frivolous, worldly-minded, insincere mother, shielding her and exhibiting to the
censorious world the utmost love and trust!

Evelyn was far from suspecting the extent of her mother's duplicity, but her heart told her
that an attempt had been made to mislead her, and that there must be some explanation of Philip's
conduct that would be consistent with her knowledge of his character. And, as she endeavored
to pierce this mystery, it dawned upon her that there had been a method in throwing her so
much into the society of Lord Montague, and that it was unnatural that such a friend as Philip
should be seen so seldom--only twice since the days in Rivervale. Naturally the very reverse
of suspicious, she had been dreaming on things to come in the seclusion of her awakening womanhood,
without the least notion that the freedom of her own soul was to be interfered with by any
merely worldly demands. But now things that had occurred, and that her mother had said, came
back to her with a new meaning, and her trustful spirit was overwhelmed. And there, in the
silence of her chamber, began the fierce struggle between desire and what she called her duty--a
duty imposed from without.

She began to perceive that she was not free, that she was a part of a social machine, the power
of which she had not at all apprehended, and that she was powerless in its clutch. She might
resist, but peace was gone. She had heretofore found peace in obedience, but when she consulted
her own heart she knew that she could not find peace in obedience now. To a girl differently
reared, perhaps, subterfuge, or some manoeuvring justified by the situation, might have been
resorted to. But such a thing never occurred to Evelyn. Everything looked dark before her,
as she more clearly understood her mother's attitude, and for the first time in years she could
do nothing but give way to emotions.

"Why, Evelyn, you have been crying!" exclaimed the governess, who came to seek her. "What is
the matter?"

Evelyn arose and threw herself on her friend's neck for a moment, and then, brushing away the
tears, said, with an attempt to smile, "Oh, nothing; I got thinking, thinking, thinking, and
Don't you ever get blue, McDonald?"

"Not often," said the Scotchwoman, gravely. "But, dear, you have nothing in the world to make
you so."

"No, no, nothing;" and then she broke down again, and threw herself upon McDonald's bosom in
a passion of sobbing. "I can't help it. Mamma says Phil--Mr. Burnett--is never to come to this
house again. What have I done? And he will think--he will think that I hate him."

McDonald drew the girl into her lap, and with uncommon gentleness comforted her with caresses.

"Dear child," she said, "crosses must come into our lives; we cannot help that. Your mother
is no doubt doing what she thinks best for your own happiness. Nothing can really hurt us for
long, you know that well, except what we do to ourselves. I never told you why I came to this
country--I didn't want to sadden you with my troubles--but now I want you to understand me
better. It is a long story."

But it was not very long in the telling, for the narrator found that what seemed to her so
long in the suffering could be conveyed to another in only a few words. And the story was not
in any of its features new, except to the auditor. There had been a long attachment, passionate
love and perfect trust, long engagement, marriage postponed because both were poor, and the
lover struggling into his profession, and then, it seemed sudden and unaccountable, his marriage
with some one else. "It was not like him," said the governess in conclusion; "it was his ambition
to get on that blinded him."

"And he, was he happy?" asked Evelyn.

"I heard that he was not" (and she spoke reluctantly); "I fear not. How could he be?" And the
governess seemed overwhelmed in a flood of tender and painful memories. "That was over twenty
years ago. And I have been happy, my darling, I have had such a happy life with you.

"I never dreamed I could have such a blessing. And you, child, will be happy too; I know it."

And the two women, locked in each other's arms, found that consolation in sympathy which steals
away half the grief of the world. Ah! who knows a woman's heart?

For Philip there was in these days no such consolation. It was a man's way not to seek any,
to roll himself up in his trouble like a hibernating bear. And yet there were times when he
had an intolerable longing for a confidant, for some one to whom he could relieve himself of
part of his burden by talking. To Celia he could say nothing. Instinct told him that he should
not go to her. Of the sympathy of Alice he was sure, but why inflict his selfish grief on her
tender heart? But he was writing to her often, he was talking to her freely about his perplexities,
about leaving the office and trusting himself to the pursuit of literature in some way. And,
in answer to direct questions, he told her that he had seen Evelyn only a few times, and, the
fact was, that Mrs. Mavick had cut him dead. He could not give to his correspondent a very
humorous turn to this situation, for Alice knew--had she not seen them often together, and
did she not know the depths of Philip's passion? And she read between the lines the real state
of the case. Alice was indignant, but she did not think it wise to make too much of the incident.
Of Evelyn she wrote affectionately--she knew she was a noble and high-minded girl. As to her
mother, she dismissed her with a country estimate. "You know, Phil, that I never thought she
was a lady."

But the lover was not to be wholly without comfort. He met by chance one day on the Avenue
Miss McDonald, and her greeting was so cordial that he knew that he had at least one friend
in the house of Mavick.

It was a warm spring day, a stray day sent in advance, as it were, to warn the nomads of the
city that it was time to move on. The tramps in Washington Square felt the genial impulse,
and, seeking the shaded benches, began to dream of the open country, the hospitable farmhouses,
the nooning by wayside springs, and the charm of wandering at will among a tolerant and not
too watchful people. Having the same abundant leisure, the dwellers up-town--also nomads--were
casting in their minds how best to employ it, and the fortunate ones were already gathering
together their flocks and herds and preparing to move on to their camps at Newport or among
the feeding-hills of the New-England coast.

The foliage of Central Park, already heavy, still preserved the freshness of its new birth,
and invited the stroller on the Avenue to its protecting shade. At Miss McDonald's suggestion
they turned in and found a secluded seat.

"I often come here," she said to Philip; "it is almost as peaceful as the wilderness itself."

To Philip also it seemed peaceful, but the soothing influence he found in it was that he was
sitting with the woman who saw Evelyn hourly, who had been with her only an hour ago.

"Yes," she said, in reply to a question, "everybody is well. We are going to leave town earlier
than usual this summer, as soon as Mr. Mavick returns. Mrs. Mavick is going to open her Newport
house; she says she has had enough of the country. It is still very amusing to me to see how
you Americans move about with the seasons, just like the barbarians of Turkestan, half the
year in summer camps and half the year in winter camps."

"Perhaps," said Philip, "it is because the social pasturage gets poor."

"Maybe," replied the governess, continuing the conceit, "only the horde keeps pretty well together,
wherever it is. I know we are to have a very gay season. Lots of distinguished foreigners and
all that."

"But," said Philip, "don't England and the Continent long for the presence of Americans in
the season in the same way?"

"Not exactly. It is the shop-keepers and hotels that sigh for the Americans. I don't think
that American shop-keepers expect much of foreigners."

"And you are going soon? I suppose Miss Mavick is eager to go also," said Philip, trying to
speak indifferently.

Miss McDonald turned towards him with a look of perfect understanding, and then replied, "No,
not eager; she hasn't been in her usual spirits lately--no, not ill--and probably the change
will be good for her. It is her first season, you know, and that is always exciting to a girl.
Perhaps it is only the spring weather."

It was some moments before either of them spoke again, and then Miss McDonald looked up--"Oh,
Mr. Burnett, I have wanted to see you and have a talk with you about your novel. I could say
so little in my note. We read it first together and then I read it alone, rather to sit in
judgment on it, you know. I liked it better the second time, but I could see the faults of
construction, and I could see, too, why it will be more popular with a few people than with
the general public. You don't mind my saying--"

"Go on, the words of a friend."

"Yes, I know, are sometimes hardest to bear. Well, it is lovely, ideal, but it seems to me
you are still a little too afraid of human nature. You are afraid to say things that are common.
And the deep things of life are pretty much all common. No, don't interrupt me. I love the
story just as it is. I am glad you wrote it as you did. It was natural, in your state of experience,
that you should do it. But in your next, having got rid of what was on top of your mind, so
to speak, you will take a firmer, more confident hold of life. You are not offended?"

"No, indeed," cried Philip. "I am very grateful. No doubt you are right. It seems to me, now
that I am detached from it, as if it were only a sort of prelude to something else."

"Well, you must not let my single opinion influence you too much, for I must in honesty tell
you another thing. Evelyn will not have a word of criticism of it. She says it is like a piece
of music, and the impudent thing declares that she does not expect a Scotchwoman to understand
anything but ballad music."

Philip laughed at this, such a laugh as he had not indulged in for many days. "I hope you don't
quarrel about such a little thing."

"Not seriously. She says I may pick away at the story--and I like to see her bristle up--but
that she looks at the spirit."

"God bless her," said Philip under his breath.

Miss McDonald rose, and they walked out into the Avenue again. How delightful was the genial
air, the light, the blue sky of spring! How the brilliant Avenue, now filling up with afternoon
equipages, sparkled in the sunshine!

When they parted, Miss McDonald gave him her hand and held his a moment, looking into his eyes.
"Mr. Burnett, authors need some encouragement. When I left Evelyn she was going to her room
with your book in her hand."

XIX

Why should not Philip trust the future? He was a free man. He had given no hostages to fortune.
Even if he did not succeed, no one else would be involved in his failure. Why not follow his
inclination, the dream of his boyhood?

He was at liberty to choose for himself. Everybody in America is; this is the proclamation
of its blessed independence. Are we any better off for the privilege of following first one
inclination and then another, which is called making a choice? Are they not as well off, and
on the whole as likely to find their right place, who inherit their callings in life, whose
careers are mapped out from the cradle by circumstance and convention? How much time do we
waste in futile experiment? Freedom to try everything, which is before the young man, is commonly
freedom to excel in nothing.

There are, of course, exceptions. The blacksmith climbs into a city pulpit. The popular preacher
becomes an excellent insurance agent. The saloon-keeper develops into the legislator, and wears
the broadcloth and high hat of the politician. The brakeman becomes the railway magnate, and
the college graduate a grocer's clerk, and the messenger-boy, picking up by chance one day
the pen, and finding it run easier than his legs, becomes a power on a city journal, and advises
society how to conduct itself and the government how to make war and peace. All this adds to
the excitement and interest of life. On the whole, we say that people get shaken into their
right places, and the predetermined vocation is often a mistake. There is the anecdote of a
well-known clergyman who, being in a company with his father, an aged and distinguished doctor
of divinity, raised his monitory finger and exclaimed, "Ah, you spoiled a first-rate carpenter
when you made a poor minister of me."

Philip thought he was calmly arguing the matter with himself. How often do we deliberately
weigh such a choice as we would that of another person, testing our inclination by solid reason?
Perhaps no one could have told Philip what he ought to do, but every one who knew him, and
the circumstances, knew what he would do. He was, in fact, already doing it while he was paltering
with his ostensible profession. But he never would have confessed, probably he would then have
been ashamed to confess, how much his decision to break with the pretense of law was influenced
by the thought of what a certain dark little maiden, whose image was always in his mind, would
wish him to do, and by the very remarkable fact that she was seen going to her room with his
well-read story in her hand. Perhaps it was under her pillow at night!

Good-luck seemed to follow his decision--as it often does when a man makes a questionable choice,
as if the devil had taken an interest in his downward road to prosperity. But Philip really
gained a permanent advantage. The novel had given him a limited reputation and very little
money. Yet it was his stepping-stone, and when he applied to his publishers and told them of
his decision, they gave him some work as a reader for the house. At first this was fitful and
intermittent, but as he showed both literary discrimination and tact in judging of the market,
his services were more in request, and slowly he acquired confidential relations with the house.
Whatever he knew, his knowledge of languages and his experience abroad, came into play, and
he began to have more confidence in himself, as he saw that his somewhat desultory education
had, after all, a market value.

The rather long period of his struggle, which is a common struggle, and often disheartening,
need not be dwelt on here. We can anticipate by saying that he obtained in the house a permanent
and responsible situation, with an income sufficient for a bachelor without habits of self-indulgence.
It was not the crowning of a noble ambition, it was not in the least the career he had dreamed
of, but it gave him support and a recognized position, and, above all, did not divert him from
such creative work as he was competent to do. Nay, he found very soon that the feeling of security,
without any sordid worry, gave freedom to his imagination. There was something stimulating
in the atmosphere of books and manuscripts and in that world of letters which seems so large
to those who live in it. Fortunately, also, having a support, he was not tempted to debase
his talent by sensational ventures. What he wrote for this or that magazine he wrote to please
himself, and, although he saw no fortune that way, the little he received was an encouragement
as well as an appreciable addition to his income.

There are two sorts of success in letters as in life generally. The one is achieved suddenly,
by a dash, and it lasts as long as the author can keep the attention of the spectators upon
his scintillating novelties. When the sparks fade there is darkness. How many such glittering
spectacles this century has witnessed!

There is another sort of success which does not startlingly or at once declare itself. Sometimes
it comes with little observation. The reputation is slowly built up, as by a patient process
of nature. It is curious, as Philip wrote once in an essay, to see this unfolding in Lowell's
life. There was no one moment when he launched into great popularity--nay, in detail, he seemed
to himself not to have made the strike that ambition is always expecting. But lo! the time
came when, by universal public consent, which was in the nature of a surprise to him, he had
a high and permanent place in the world of letters.

In anticipating Philip's career, however, it must not be understood that he had attained any
wide public recognition. He was simply enrolled in the great army of readers and was serving
his apprenticeship. He was recognized as a capable man by those who purvey in letters to the
entertainment of the world. Even this little foothold was not easily gained in a day, as the
historian discovered in reading some bundles of old letters which Philip wrote in this time
of his novitiate to Celia and to his cousin Alice.

It was against Celia's most strenuous advice that he had trusted himself to a literary career.
"I see, my dear friend," she wrote, in reply to his announcement that he was going that day
to Mr. Hunt to resign his position, "that you are not happy, but whatever your disappointment
or disillusion, you will not better yourself by surrendering a regular occupation. You live
too much in the imagination already."

Philip fancied, with that fatuity common to his sex, that he had worn an impenetrable mask
in regard to his wild passion for Evelyn, and did not dream that, all along, Celia had read
him like an open book. She judged Philip quite accurately. It was herself that she did not
know, and she would have repelled as nonsense the suggestion that her own restlessness and
her own changing experiments in occupation were due to the unsatisfied longings of a woman's heart.

"You must not think," the letter went on, "that I want to dictate, but I have noticed that
men--it may be different with women--only succeed by taking one path and diligently walking
in it. And literature is not a career, it is just a toss up, a lottery, and woe to you if you
once draw a lucky number--you will always be expecting another... You say that I am a pretty
one to give advice, for I am always chopping and changing myself. Well, from the time you were
a little boy, did I ever give you but one sort of advice? I have been constant in that. And
as to myself, you are unjust. I have always had one distinct object in life, and that I have
pursued. I wanted to find out about life, to have experience, and then do what I could do best,
and what needed most to be done. Why did I not stick to teaching in that woman's college? Well,
I began to have doubts, I began to experiment on my pupils. You will laugh, but I will give
you a specimen. One day I put a question to my literature class, and I found out that not one
of them knew how to boil potatoes. They were all getting an education, and hardly one of them
knew how much the happiness of a home depends upon having the potatoes mealy and not soggy.
It was so in everything. How are we going to live when we are all educated, without knowing
how to live? Then I found that the masses here in New York did not know any better than the
classes how to live. Don't think it is just a matter of cooking. It is knowing how, generally,
to make the most of yourself and of your opportunities, and have a nice world to live in, a
thrifty, self-helpful, disciplined world. Is education giving us this? And then we think that
organization will do it, organization instead of self-development. We think we can organize
life, as they are trying to organize art. They have organized art as they have the production
of cotton.

"Did I tell you I was in that? No? I used to draw in school, and after I had worked in the
Settlement here in New York, and while I was working down on the East Side, it came over me
that maybe I had one talent wrapped in a napkin; and I have been taking lessons in Fifty-seventh
Street with the thousand or two young women who do not know how to boil potatoes, but are pursuing
the higher life of art. I did not tell you this because I knew you would say that I am just
as inconsistent as you are. But I am not. I have demonstrated the fact that neither I nor one
in a hundred of those charming devotees to art could ever earn a living by art, or do anything
except to add to the mediocrity of the amazing art product of this free country.

"And you will ask, what now? I am going on in the same way. I am going to be a doctor. In college
I was very well up in physiology and anatomy, and I went quite a way in biology. So you see
I have a good start. I am going to attend lectures and go into a hospital, as soon as there
is an opening, and then I mean to practice. One essential for a young doctor I have in advance.
That is patients. I can get all I want on the East Side, and I have already studied many of
them. Law and medicine are what I call real professions."

However Celia might undervalue the calling that Philip had now entered on, he had about this
time evidence of the growing appreciation of literature by practical business men. He was surprised
one day by a brief note from Murad Ault, asking him to call at his office as soon as convenient.

Mr. Ault received him in his private office at exactly the hour named. Evidently Mr. Ault's
affairs were prospering. His establishment presented every appearance of a high-pressure business
perfectly organized. The outer rooms were full of industrious clerks, messengers were constantly
entering and departing in a feverish rapidity, servants moved silently about, conducting visitors
to this or that waiting-room and answering questions, excited speculators in groups were gesticulating
and vociferating, and in the anteroom were impatient clients awaiting their turn. In the inner
chamber, however, was perfect calm. There at his table sat the dark, impenetrable operator,
whose time was exactly apportioned, serene, saturnine, or genial, as the case might be, listening
attentively, speaking deliberately, despatching the affair in hand without haste or the waste
of a moment.

Mr. Ault arose and shook hands cordially, and then went on, without delay for any conventional
talk.

"I sent for you, Mr. Burnett, because I wanted your help, and because I thought I might do
you a good turn. You see" (with a grim smile) "I have not forgotten Rivervale days. My wife
has been reading your story. I don't have much time for such things myself, but her constant
talk about it has given me an idea. I want to suggest to you the scene of a novel, one that
would be bound to be a good seller.

"I could guarantee a big circulation. I have just become interested in one of the great transcontinental
lines." He named the most picturesque of them--one that he, in fact, absolutely controlled.
"Well, I want a story, yes, I guess a good love-story--a romance of reality you might call
it--strung on that line. You take the idea?"

"Why," said Philip, half amused at the conceit and yet complimented by the recognition of his
talent, "I don't know anything about railroads--how they are run, cost of building, prospect
of traffic, engineering difficulties, all that--nothing whatever."

"So much the better. It is a literary work I want, not a brag about the road or a description
of its enterprise. You just take the line as your scene. Let the story run on that. The company,
don't you see, must not in any way be suspected with having anything to do with it, no mention
of its name as a company, no advertisement of the road on a fly-leaf or cover. Just your own
story, pure and simple."

"But," said Philip, more and more astonished at this unlooked-for expansion of the literary
field, "I could not embark on an enterprise of such magnitude."

"Oh," said Mr. Ault, complacently, "that will be all arranged. Just a pleasure trip, as far
as that goes. You will have a private car, well stocked, a photographer will go along, and
I think--don't you? a water-color artist. You can take your own time, stop when and where you
choose--at the more stations the better. It ought to be profusely illustrated with scenes on
the line--yes, have colored plates, all that would give life and character to your story. Love
on a Special, some such title as that. It would run like oil. I will arrange to have it as
a serial in one of the big magazines, and then the book would be bound to go. The company,
of course, can have nothing to do with it, but I can tell you privately that it would rather
distribute a hundred thousand copies of a book of good literature through the country than
to encourage the railway truck that is going now.

"I shouldn't wonder, Mr. Burnett, if the public would be interested in having the Puritan Nun
take that kind of a trip." And Mr. Ault ended his explanation with an interrogatory smile.

Philip hesitated a moment, trying to grasp the conception of this business use of literature.
Mr. Ault resumed:

"It isn't anything in the nature of an advertisement. Literature is a power. Why, do you know--of
course you did not intend it--your story has encouraged the Peacock Inn to double its accommodations,
and half the farmhouses in Rivervale are expecting summer boarders. The landlord of the Peacock
came to see me the other day, and he says everything is stirred up there, and he has already
to enlarge or refuse application."

"It is very kind in you, Mr. Ault, to think of me in that connection, but I fear you have over-estimated
my capacity. I could name half a dozen men who could do it much better than I could. They know
how to do it, they have that kind of touch. I have been surprised at the literary ability engaged
by the great corporations."

Mr. Ault made a gesture of impatience. "I wouldn't give a damn for that sort of thing. It is
money thrown away. If I should get one of the popular writers you refer to, the public would
know he was hired. If you lay your story out there, nobody will suspect anything of the sort.
It will be a clean literary novel. Not travel, you understand, but a story, and the more love
in it the better. It will be a novelty. You can run your car sixty miles an hour in exciting
passages, everything will work into it. When people travel on the road the pictures will show
them the scenes of the story. It is a big thing," said Mr. Ault in conclusion.

"I see it is," said Philip, rising at the hint that his time had expired. "I am very much obliged
to you, Mr. Ault, for your confidence in me. But it is a new idea. I will have to think it over."

"Well, think it over. There is money in it. You would not start till about midsummer. Good-day."

A private car! Travel like a prince! Certainly literature was looking up in the commercial
world. Philip walked back to his publishers with a certain elasticity of step, a new sense
of power. Yes, the power of the pen. And why not? No doubt it would bring him money and spread
his name very widely. There was nothing that a friendly corporation could not do for a favorite.
He would then really be a part of the great, active, enterprising world. Was there anything
illegitimate in taking advantage of such an opportunity? Surely, he should remain his own master,
and write nothing except what his own conscience approved. But would he not feel, even if no
one else knew it, that he was the poet-laureate of a corporation?

And suddenly, as he thought how the clear vision of Evelyn would plunge to the bottom of such
a temptation, he felt humiliated that such a proposition should have been made to him. Was
there nothing, nobody, that commercialism did not think for sale and to be trafficked in?

Nevertheless, he wrote to Alice about it, describing the proposal as it was made to him, without
making any comment on it.

Alice replied speedily. "Isn't it funny," she wrote, "and isn't it preposterous? I wonder what
such people think? And that horrid young pirate, Ault, a patron of literature! My dear, I cannot
conceive of you as the Pirate's Own. Dear Phil, I want you to succeed. I do want you to make
money, a lot of it. I like to think you are wanted and appreciated, and that you can get paid
better and better for what you do. Sell your manuscripts for as good a price as you can get.
Yes, dear, sell your manuscripts, but don't sell your soul."

XX

Did Miss McDonald tell Evelyn of her meeting with Philip in Central Park? The Scotch loyalty
to her service would throw a doubt upon this. At the same time, the Scotch affection, the Scotch
sympathy with a true and romantic passion, and, above all, the Scotch shrewdness, could be
trusted to do what was best under the circumstances. That she gave the least hint of what she
said to Mr. Burnett concerning Evelyn is not to be supposed for a moment. Certainly she did
not tell Mrs. Mavick. Was she a person to run about with idle gossip? But it is certain that
Evelyn knew that Philip had given up his situation in the office, that he had become a reader
for a publishing house, that he had definitely decided to take up a literary career. And somehow
it came into her mind that Philip knew that this decision would be pleasing to her.

According to the analogy of other things in nature, it would seem that love must have something
to feed on to sustain it. But it is remarkable upon how little it can exist, can even thrive
and become strong, and develop a power of resistance to hostile influences. Once it gets a
lodgment in a woman's heart, it is an exclusive force that transforms her into a heroine of
courage and endurance. No arguments, no reason, no considerations of family, of position, of
worldly fortune, no prospect of immortal life, nothing but doubt of faith in the object can
dislodge it. The woman may yield to overwhelming circumstances, she may even by her own consent
be false to herself, but the love lives, however hidden and smothered, so long as the vital
force is capable of responding to a true emotion. Perhaps nothing in human life is so pathetic
as this survival in old age of a youthful, unsatisfied love. It may cease to be a passion,
it may cease to be a misery, it may have become only a placid sentiment, yet the heart must
be quite cold before this sentiment can cease to stir it on occasion--for the faded flower
is still in the memory the bloom of young love.

They say that in the New Education for women love is not taken into account in the regular
course; it is an elective study. But the immortal principle of life does not care much for
organization, and says, as of old, they reckon ill who leave me out.

In the early season at Newport there was little to distract the attention and much to calm
the spirit. Mrs. Mavick was busy in her preparation for the coming campaign, and Evelyn and
her governess were left much alone, to drive along the softly lapping sea, to search among
the dells of the rocky promontory for wild flowers, or to sit on the cliffs in front of the
gardens of bloom and watch the idle play of the waves, that chased each other to the foaming
beach and in good-nature tossed about the cat-boats and schooners and set the white sails shimmering
and dipping in the changing lights. And Evelyn, drinking in the beauty and the peace of it,
no doubt, was more pensive than joyous. Within the last few months life had opened to her with
a suddenness that half frightened her.

It was a woman who sat on the cliffs now, watching the ocean of life, no longer a girl into
whose fresh soul the sea and the waves and the air, and the whole beauty of the world, were
simply responsive to her own gayety and enjoyment of living. It was not the charming scene
that held her thought, but the city with its human struggle, and in that struggle one figure
was conspicuous. In such moments this one figure of youth outweighed for her all that the world
held besides. It was strange. Would she have admitted this? Not in the least, not even to herself,
in her virgin musings; nevertheless, the world was changed for her, it was more serious, more
doubtful, richer, and more to be feared.

It was not too much to say that one season had much transformed her. She had been so ignorant
of the world a year ago. She had taken for granted all that was abstractly right. Now she saw
that the conventions of life were like sand-dunes and barriers in the path she was expected
to walk. She had learned for one thing what money was. Wealth had been such an accepted part
of her life, since she could remember, that she had attached no importance to it, and had only
just come to see what distinctions it made, and how it built a barrier round about her. She
had come to know what it was that gave her father position and distinction; and the knowledge
had been forced upon her by all the obsequious flattery of society that she was, as a great
heiress, something apart from others. This position, so much envied, may be to a sensitive
soul an awful isolation.

It was only recently that Evelyn had begun to be keenly aware of the circumstances that hedged
her in. They were speaking one day as they sat upon the cliffs of the season about to begin.
In it Evelyn had always had unalloyed, childish delight. Now it seemed to her something to
be borne.

"McDonald," the girl said, abruptly, but evidently continuing her line of thought, "mamma says
that Lord Montague is coming next week."

"To be with us?"

"Oh, no. He is to stay with the Danforth-Sibbs. Mamma says that as he is a stranger here we
must be very polite to him, and that his being here will give distinction to the season. Do
you like him?" There was in Evelyn still, with the penetration of the woman, the naivete of
the child.

"I cannot say that he is personally very fascinating, but then I have never talked with him."

"Mamma says he is very interesting about his family, and their place in England, and about
his travels. He has been in the South Sea Islands. I asked him about them. He said that the
natives were awfully jolly, and that the climate was jolly hot. Do you know, McDonald, that
you can't get anything out of him but exclamations and slang. I suppose he talks to other people
differently. I tried him. At the reception I asked him who was going to take Tennyson's place.
He looked blank, and then said, 'Er--I must have missed that. What place? Is he out?'"

Miss McDonald laughed, and then said, "You don't understand the classes in English life. Poetry
is not in his line. You see, dear, you couldn't talk to him about politics. He is a born legislator,
and when he is in the House of Lords he will know right well who is in and who is out. You
mustn't be unjust because he seems odd to you and of limited intelligence. Just that sort of
youth is liable to turn up some day in India or somewhere and do a mighty plucky thing, and
become a hero. I dare say he is a great sportsman."

"Yes, he quite warmed up about shooting. He told me about going for yak in the snow mountains
south of Thibet. Bloody cold it was. Nasty beast, if you didn't bring him down first shot.
No, I don't doubt his courage nor his impudence. He looks at me so, that I can't help blushing.
I wish mamma wouldn't ask him."

"But, my dear, we must live in the world as it is. You are not responsible for Lord Montague."

"And I know he will come," the girl persisted in her line of thought.

"When he called the day before we came away, he asked a lot of questions about Newport, about
horses and polo and golf, and all that, and were the roads good. And then, 'Do you bike, Miss
Mavick?'

"I pretended not to understand, and said I was still studying with my governess and I hadn't
got all the irregular verbs yet. For once, he looked quite blank, and after a minute he said,
'That's very good, you know!' McDonald, I just hate him. He makes me so uneasy."

"But don't you know, child," said Miss McDonald, laughing, "that we are required to love our
enemies?"

"So I would," replied the girl, quickly, "if he were an enemy and would keep away. Ah, me!
McDonald, I want to ask you something. Do you suppose he would hang around a girl who was poor,
such a sweet, pretty, dear creature as Alice Maitland, who is a hundred times nicer than I am?"

"He might," said Miss McDonald, still quizzically. "They say that like goes to like, and it
is reported that the Duke of Tewkesbury is as good as ruined."

"Do be serious, McDonald." The girl nestled up closer to her and took her hand. "I want to
ask you one question more. Do you think--no, don't look at me, look away off at that sail do
you-think that, if I had been poor, Mr. Burnett would have seen me only twice, just twice,
all last season?"

Miss McDonald put her arm around Evelyn and clasped the little figure tight. "You must not
give way to fancies. We cannot, as life is arranged, be perfectly happy, but we can be true
to ourselves, and there is scarcely anything that resolution and patience cannot overcome.
I ought not to talk to you about this, Evelyn. But I must say one thing: I think I can read
Philip Burnett. Oh, he has plenty of self-esteem, but, unless I mistake him, nothing could
so mortify him as to have it said that he was pursuing a girl for the sake of her fortune."

"And he wouldn't!" cried the girl, looking up and speaking in an unsteady voice.

"Let me finish. He is, so I think, the sort of man that would not let any fortune, or anything
else, stand in the way when his heart was concerned. I somehow feel that he could not change--faithfulness,
that is his notion. If he only knew--"

"He never shall! he never shall!" cried the girl in alarm--"never!"

"And you think, child, that he doesn't know? Come! That sail has been coming straight towards
us ever since we sat here, never tacked once. That is omen enough for one day. See how the
light strikes it. Come!"

The Newport season was not, after all, very gay. Society has become so complex that it takes
more than one Englishman to make a season. Were it the business of the chronicler to study
the evolution of this lovely watering-place from its simple, unconventional, animated days
of natural hospitality and enjoyment, to its present splendid and palatial isolation of a society--during
the season--which finds its chief satisfaction in the rivalry of costly luxury and in an atmosphere
of what is deemed aristocratic exclusiveness, he would have a theme attractive to the sociologist.
But such a noble study is not for him. His is the humble task of following the fortunes of
certain individuals, more or less conspicuous in this astonishing flowering of a democratic
society, who have become dear to him by long acquaintance.

It was not the fault of Mrs. Mavick that the season was so frigid, its glacial stateliness
only now and then breaking out in an illuminating burst of festivity, like the lighting-up
of a Montreal ice-palace. Her spacious house was always open, and her efforts, in charity enterprises
and novel entertainments, were untiring to stimulate a circulation in the languid body of society.

This clever woman never showed more courage or more tact than in this campaign, and was never
more agreeable and fascinating. She was even popular. If she was not accepted as a leader,
she had a certain standing with the leaders, as a person of vivacity and social influence.
Any company was eager for her presence. Her activity, spirit, and affability quite won the
regard of the society reporters, and those who know Newport only through the newspapers would
have concluded that the Mavicks were on the top of the wave. She, however, perfectly understood
her position, and knew that the sweet friends, who exchanged with her, whenever they met, the
conventional phrases of affection commented sarcastically upon her ambitions for her daughter.
It was, at the same time, an ambition that they perfectly understood, and did not condemn on
any ethical grounds. Evelyn was certainly a sweet girl, rather queerly educated, and never
likely to make much of a dash, but she was an heiress, and why should not her money be put
to the patriotic use of increasing the growing Anglo-American cordiality?

Lord Montague was, of course, a favorite, in demand for all functions, and in request for the
private and intimate entertainments. He was an authority in the stables and the kennels, and
an eager comrade in all the sports of the island. His easy manner, his self-possession everywhere,
even his slangy talk, were accepted as evidence that he was above conventionalities. "The little
man isn't a beauty," said Sally McTabb, "but he shows 'race.'" He might be eccentric, but when
you came to know him you couldn't help liking the embryo duke in him.

In fact, things were going very well with Mrs. Mavick, except in her own household. There was
something there that did not yield, that did not flow with her plans. With Lord Montague she
was on the most intimate and confidential relations. He was almost daily at the house. Often
she drove with him; frequently Evelyn was with them. Indeed, the three came to be associated
in the public mind. There could be no doubt of the intentions of the young nobleman. That he
could meet any opposition was not conceived.

The noble lord, since they had been in Newport, had freely opened his mind to Mrs. Mavick,
and on a fit occasion had formally requested her daughter's hand. Needless to say that he was
accepted. Nay, more, he felt that he was trusted like a son. He was given every opportunity
to press his suit. Somewhat to his surprise, he did not appear to make much headway. He was
rarely able to see her alone, even for a moment. Such evasiveness in a young girl to a man
of his rank astonished him. There could be no reason for it in himself; there must be some
influence at work unknown to his social experience.

He did not reproach Mrs. Mavick with this, but he let her see that he was very much annoyed.

"If I had not your assurance to the contrary, Mrs. Mavick," he said one day in a pet, "I should
think she shunned me."

"Oh, no, Lord Montague, that could not be. I told you that she had had a peculiar education;
she is perfectly ignorant of the world, she is shy, and--well, for a girl in her position,
she is unconventional. She is so young that she does not yet understand what life is."

"You mean she does not know what I offer her?"

"Why, my dear Lord Montague, did you ever offer her anything?"

"Not flat, no," said my lord, hesitating. "Every time I approach her she shies off like a young
filly. There is something I don't understand."

"Evelyn," and Mrs. Mavick spoke with feeling, "is an affectionate and dutiful child. She has
never thought of marriage. The prospect is all new to her. But I am sure she would learn to
love you if she knew you and her mind were once turned upon such a union. My lord, why not
say to her what you feel, and make the offer you intend? You cannot expect a young girl to
show her inclination before she is asked." And Mrs. Mavick laughed a little to dispel the seriousness.

"By Jove! that's so, good enough. I'll do it straight out. I'll tell her to take it or leave
it. No, I don't mean that, of course. I'll tell her that I can't live without her--that sort
of thing, you know. And I can't, that's just the fact."

"You can leave it confidently to her good judgment and to the friendship of the family for you."

Lord Montague was silent for a moment, and seemed to be looking at a problem in his shrewd
mind. For he had a shrewd mind, which took in the whole situation, Mrs. Mavick and all, with
a perspicacity that would have astonished that woman of the world.

"There is one thing, perhaps I ought not to say it, but I have seen it, and it is in my head
that it is that--I beg your pardon, madam--that damned governess."

The shot went home. The suggestion, put into language that could be more easily comprehended
than defended, illuminated Mrs. Mavick's mind in a flash, seeming to disclose the source of
an opposition to her purposes which secretly irritated her. Doubtless it was the governess.
It was her influence that made Evelyn less pliable and amenable to reason than a young girl
with such social prospects as she had would naturally be. Besides, how absurd it was that a
young lady in society should still have a governess. A companion? The proper companion for
a girl on the edge of matrimony was her mother!

XXI

This idea, once implanted in Mrs. Mavick's mind, bore speedy fruit. No one would have accused
her of being one of those uncomfortable persons who are always guided by an inflexible sense
of justice, nor could it be said that she was unintelligently unjust. Facile as she was, in
all her successful life she had never acted upon impulse, but from a conscience keenly alive
to what was just to herself. Miss McDonald was in the way. And Mrs. Mavick had one quality
of good generalship--she acted promptly on her convictions.

When Mr. Mavick came over next day to spend Sunday in what was called in print the bosom of
his family, he looked very much worn and haggard and was in an irritated mood. He had been
very little in Newport that summer, the disturbed state of business confining him to the city.
And to a man of his age, New York in midsummer in a panicky season is not a recreation.

The moment Mrs. Mavick got her husband alone she showed a lively solicitude about his health.

"I suppose it has been dreadfully hot in the city?"

"Hot enough. Everything makes it hot."

"Has anything gone wrong? Has that odious Ault turned up again?"

"Turned up is the word. Half the time that man is a mole, half the time a bull in a china-shop.
He sails up to you bearing your own flag, and when he gets aboard he shows the skull and cross-bones."

"Is it so bad as that?"

"As bad as what? He is a bad lot, but he is just an adventurer--a Napoleon who will get his
Waterloo before fall. Don't bother about things you don't understand. How are things down here?"

"Going swimmingly." "So I judged by the bills. How is the lord?"

"Now don't be vulgar, Tom. You must keep up your end. Lord Montague is very nice; he is a great
favorite here."

"Does Evelyn like him?"

"Yes, she likes him; she likes him very much."

"She didn't show it to me."

"No, she is awfully shy. And she is rather afraid of him, the big title and all that. And then
she has never been accustomed to act for herself. She is old enough to be independent and to
take her place in the world. At her age I was not in leading-strings."

"I should say not," said Mavick.

"Except in obedience to my mother," continued Carmen, not deigning to notice the sarcasm. "And
I've been thinking that McDonald--"

"So you want to get rid of her?"

"What a brutal way of putting it! No. But if Evelyn is ever to be self-reliant it is time she
should depend more on herself. You know I am devoted to McDonald. And, what is more, I am used
to her. I wasn't thinking of her. You don't realize that Evelyn is a young lady in society,
and it has become ridiculous for her to still have a governess. Everybody would say so."

"Well, call her a companion."

"Ah, don't you see it would be the same? She would still be under her influence and not able
to act for herself."

"What are you going to do? Turn her adrift after eighteen--what is it, seventeen?--years of
faithful service?"

"How brutally you put it. I'm going to tell McDonald just how it is. She is a sensible woman,
and she will see that it is for Evelyn's good. And then it happens very luckily. Mrs. Van Cortlandt
asked me last winter if I wouldn't let her have McDonald for her little girl when we were through
with her. She knew, of course, that we couldn't keep a governess much longer for Evelyn. I
am going to write to her. She will jump at the chance."

"And McDonald?"

"Oh, she likes Mrs. Van Cortlandt. It will just suit her."

"And Evelyn? That will be another wrench." Men are so foolishly tender-hearted about women.

"Of course, I know it seems hard, and will be for a little. But it is for Evelyn's good, I
am perfectly sure."

Mr. Mavick was meditating. It was a mighty unpleasant business. But he was getting tired of
conflict. There was an undercurrent in the lives of both that made him shrink from going deep
into any domestic difference. It was best to yield.

"Well, Carmen, I couldn't have the heart to do it. She has been Evelyn's constant companion
all the child's life. Ah, well, it's your own affair. Only don't stir it up till after I am
gone. I must go to the city early Monday morning."

Because Mavick, amid all the demands of business and society, and his ambitions for power in
the world of finance and politics, had not had much time to devote to his daughter, it must
not be supposed that he did not love her. In the odd moments at her service she had always
been a delight to him; and, in truth, many of his ambitions had centred in the intelligent,
affectionate, responsive child. But there had been no time for much real comradeship.

This Sunday, however, and it was partly because of pity for the shock he felt was in store
for her, he devoted himself to her. They had a long walk on the cliff, and he talked to her
of his life, of his travels, and his political experience. She was a most appreciative listener,
and in the warmth of his confidence she opened her mind to him, and rather surprised him by
her range of intelligence and the singular uprightness of her opinions, and more still by her
ready wit and playfulness. It was the first time she had felt really free with her father,
and he for the first time seemed to know her as she was in her inner life. When they returned
to the house, and she was thanking him with a glow of enthusiasm for such a lovely day, he
lifted her up and kissed her, with an emotion of affection that brought tears to her eyes.

A couple of days elapsed before Mrs. Mavick was ready for action. During this time she had
satisfied herself, by apparently casual conversation with her daughter and Miss McDonald, that
the latter would be wholly out of sympathy with her intentions in regard to Evelyn. Left to
herself she judged that her daughter would look with more favor upon the brilliant career offered
to her by Lord Montague. When, therefore, one morning the governess was summoned to her room,
her course was decided on. She received Miss McDonald with more than usual cordiality. She
had in her hand a telegram, and beamed upon her as the bearer of good news.

"I have an excellent offer for you, Miss McDonald."

"An offer for me?"

"Yes, from Mrs. Van Cortlandt, to be the governess of her daughter, a sweet little girl of
six. She has often spoken about it, and now I have an urgent despatch from her. She is in need
of some one at once, and she greatly prefers you."

"Do you mean, Mrs. Mavick, that--you--want--that I am to leave Evelyn, and you?" The room seemed
to whirl around her.

"It is not what we want, McDonald," said Mrs. Mavick calmly and still beaming, "but what is
best. Your service as governess has continued much longer than could have been anticipated,
and of course it must come to an end some time. You understand how hard this separation is
for all of us. Mr. Mavick wanted me to express to you his infinite obligation, and I am sure
he will take a substantial way of showing it. Evelyn is now a young lady in society, and of
course it is absurd for her to continue under pupilage. It will be best for her, for her character,
to be independent and learn to act for herself in the world."

"Did she--has Evelyn--"

"No, I have said nothing to her of this offer, which is a most advantageous one. Of course
she will feel as we do, at first."

"Why, all these years, all her life, since she was a baby, not a day, not a night, Evelyn,
and now--so sweet, so dear--why Mrs. Mavick!" And the Scotch woman, dazed, with a piteous appeal
in her eyes, trying in vain to control her face, looked at her mistress.

"My dear McDonald, you must not take it that way. It is only a change. You are not going away
really, we shall all be in the same city. I am sure you will--like your new home. Shall I tell
Mrs. Van Cortlandt?"

"Tell Mrs. Van Cortlandt? Yes, tell her, thanks. I will go--soon--at once. In a little time,
to get-ready. Thanks." The governess rose and stood a moment to steady herself. All her life
was in ruins. The blow crushed her. And she had been so happy. In such great peace. It seemed
impossible. To leave Evelyn! She put out her hand as if to speak. Did Mrs. Mavick understand
what she was doing? That it was the same as dragging a mother away from her child? But she
said nothing. Words would not come. Everything seemed confused and blank. She sank into her chair.

"Excuse me, Mrs. Mavick, I think I am not very strong this morning." And presently she stood
on her feet again and steadied herself. "You will please tell Evelyn before--before I see her."
And she walked out of the room as one in a trance.

The news was communicated to Evelyn, quite incidentally, in the manner that all who knew Mrs.
Mavick admired in her. Evelyn had just been in and out of her mother's room, on one errand
and another, and was going out again, when her mother said:

"Oh, by-the-way, Evelyn, at last we have got a splendid place for McDonald."

Evelyn turned, not exactly comprehending. "A place for McDonald? For what?"

"As governess, of course. With Mrs. Van Cortlandt."

"What! to leave us?" The girl walked back to her mother's chair and stood before her in an
attitude of wonder and doubt. "You don't mean, mamma, that she is going away for good?"

"It is a great chance for her. I have been anxious for some time about employment for her,
now that you do not need a governess--haven't really for a year or two."

"But, mamma, it can't be. She is part of us. She belongs to the family; she has been in it
almost as long as I have. Why, I have been with her every day of my life. To go away? To give
her up? Does she know?"

"Does she know? What a child! She has accepted Mrs. Van Cortlandt's offer. I telegraphed for
her this morning. Tomorrow she goes to town to get her belongings together. Mrs. Van Cortlandt
needs her at once. I am sorry to see, my dear, that you are thinking only of yourself."

"Of myself?" The girl had been at first confused, and, as the idea forced itself upon her mind,
she felt weak, and trembled, and was deadly pale. But when the certainty came, the enormity
and cruelty of the dismissal aroused her indignation. "Myself!" she exclaimed again. Her eyes
blazed with a wrath new to their tenderness, and, stepping back and stamping her foot; she
cried out: "She shall not go! It is unjust! It is cruel!"

Her mother had never seen her child like that. She was revealing a spirit of resistance, a
temper, an independence quite unexpected. And yet it was not altogether displeasing. Mrs. Mavick's
respect for her involuntarily rose. And after an instant, instead of responding with severity,
as was her first impulse, she said, very calmly:

"Naturally, Evelyn, you do not like to part with her. None of us do. But go to your room and
think it over reasonably. The relations of childhood cannot last forever."

Evelyn stood for a moment undecided. Her mother's calm self-control had not deceived her. She
was no longer a child. It was a woman reading a woman. All her lifetime came back to her to
interpret this moment. In the reaction of the second, the deepest pain was no longer for herself,
nor even for Miss McDonald, but for a woman who showed herself so insensible to noble feeling.
Protest was useless. But why was the separation desired? She did not fully see, but her instinct
told her that it had a relation to her mother's plans for her; and as life rose before her
in the society, in the world, into which she was newly launched, she felt that she was alone,
absolutely alone. She tried to speak, but before she could collect her thoughts her mother said:

"There, go now. It is useless to discuss the matter. We all have to learn to bear things."

Evelyn went away, in a tumult of passion and of shame, and obeyed her impulse to go where she
had always found comfort.

Miss McDonald was in her own room. Her trunk was opened. She had taken her clothes from the
closet. She was opening the drawers and laying one article here and another there. She was
going from closet to bureau, opening this door and shutting that in her sitting-room and bedroom,
in an aimless, distracted way. Out of her efforts nothing had so far come but confusion. It
seemed an impossible dream that she was actually packing up to go away forever.

Evelyn entered in a haste that could not wait for permission.

"Is it true?" she cried.

McDonald turned. She could not speak. Her faithful face was gray with suffering. Her eyes were
swollen with weeping. For an instant she seemed not to comprehend, and then a flood of motherly
feeling overcame her. She stretched out her arms and caught the girl to her breast in a passionate
embrace, burying her face in her neck in a vain effort to subdue her sobbing.

What was there to say? Evelyn had come to her refuge for comfort, and to Evelyn the comforter
it was she herself who must be the comforter. Presently she disengaged herself and forced the
governess into an easy chair. She sat down on the arm of the chair and smoothed her hair and
kissed her again and again.

"There. I'm going to help you. You'll see you have not taught me for nothing." She jumped up
and began to bustle about. "You don't know what a packer I am."

"I knew it must come some time," she was saying, with a weary air, as she followed with her
eyes the light step of the graceful girl, who was beginning to sort things and to bring order
out of the confusion, holding up one article after another and asking questions with an enforced
cheerfulness that was more pathetic than any burst of grief.

"Yes, I know. There, that is laid in smooth." She pretended to be thinking what to put in next,
and suddenly she threw herself into McDonald's lap and began to talk gayly. "It is all my fault,
dear; I should have stayed little. And it doesn't make any difference. I know you love me,
and oh, McDonald, I love you more, a hundred times more, than ever. If you did not love me!
Think how dreadful that would be. And we shall not be separated-only by streets, don't you
know. They can't separate us. I know you want me to be brave. And some day, perhaps" (and she
whispered in her ear--how many hundred times had she told her girl secrets in that way!), "if
I do have a home of my own, then--"

It was not very cheerful talk, however it seemed to be, but it was better than silence, and
in the midst of it, with many interruptions, the packing was over, and some sort of serenity
was attained even by Miss McDonald. "Yes, dear heart, we have love and trust and hope." But
when the preparations were all made, and Evelyn went to her own room, there did not seem to
be so much hope, nor any brightness in the midst of this first great catastrophe of her life.

XXII

The great Mavick ball at Newport, in the summer long remembered for its financial disasters,
was very much talked about at the time. Long after, in any city club, a man was sure to have
attentive listeners if he, began his story or his gossip with the remark that he was at the
Mavick ball.

It attracted great attention, both on account of the circumstances that preceded it and the
events which speedily followed, and threw a light upon it that gave it a spectacular importance.
The city journals made a feature of it. They summoned their best artists to illustrate it,
and illuminate it in pen-and-ink, half-tones, startling colors, and photographic reproductions,
sketches theatrical, humorous, and poetic, caricatures, pictures of tropical luxury and aristocratic
pretension; in short, all the bewildering affluence of modern art which is brought to bear
upon the aesthetic cultivation of the lowest popular taste. They summoned their best novelists
to throw themselves recklessly upon the English language, and extort from it its highest expression
in color and lyrical beauty, the novelists whose mission it is, in the newspaper campaign against
realism, to adorn and dramatize the commonest events of life, creating in place of the old-fashioned
"news" the highly spiced "story," which is the ideal aspiration of the reporter.

