On the following morning Souchey, in return, as it were, for his cruelty to his young mistress
on the preceding day, produced some small store of coin which he declared to be the result
of a further sale of the last relics of his master's property; and Nina's journey with the
necklace to the pawnbroker was again postponed. That day and the next were passed in the old
house without anything to make them memorable except their wearisome misery, and then Nina
again went out to visit the Jews' quarter. She told herself that she was taken there by the
duties of her position; but in truth she could hardly bear her life without the comfort of
seeing the only person who would speak kindly to her. She was engaged to marry this man, but
she did not know when she was to be married. She would ask no question of her lover on that
matter; but she could tell him--and she felt herself bound to tell him --what was really her
own position, and also all that she knew of his affairs. He had given her to understand that
he could not marry her till he had obtained possession of certain documents which he believed
to be in the possession of her uncle. And for these documents she, with his permission, had
made application. She had at any rate discovered that they certainly were at the office in
the Ross Markt. So much she had learned from Ziska; and so much, at any rate, she was bound
to make known to her lover. And, moreover, since she had seen him she had told all her relatives
of her engagement. They all knew now that she loved the Jew, and that she had resolved to marry
him; and of this also it was her duty to give him tidings. The result of her communication
to her father and her relatives in the Windberg-gasse had been by no means so terrible as she
had anticipated. The heavens and the earth had not as yet shown any symptoms of coming together.
Her aunt, indeed, had been very angry; and Lotta Luxa and Souchey had told her that such a
marriage would not be allowed. Ziska, too, had said some sharp words; and her father, for the
first day or two, had expostulated. But the threats had been weak threats, and she did not
find herself to be annihilated--indeed, hardly to be oppressed--by the scolding of any of them.
What the priest might say she had not yet experienced; but opposition from other quarters had
not as yet come upon her in any form that was not endurable. Her aunt had intended to consume
her with wrath, but Nina had not found herself to be consumed. All this it was necessary that
she should tell to Anton Trendellsohn. It was grievous to her that it should be always her
lot to go to her lover, and that he should never--almost never--be able to seek her. It would
in truth be never now, unless she could induce her father to receive Anton openly as his acknowledged
future son-in-law; and she could hardly hope that her father would yield so far as that. Other
girls, she knew, stayed till their lovers came to them, or met them abroad in public places--at
the gardens and music-halls, or perhaps at church; but no such joys as these were within reach
of Nina. The public gardens, indeed, were open to her and to Anton Trendellsohn as they were
to others; but she knew that she would not dare to be seen in public with her Jew lover till
the thing was done and she and the Jew had become man and wife. On this occasion, before she
left her home, she was careful to tell her father where she was going. "Have you any message
to the Trendellsohns?" she asked.

"So you are going there again?" her father said.

"Yes, I must see them. I told you that I had a commission from them to the Zamenoys, which
I have performed, and I must let them know what I did. Besides, father, if this man is to be
my husband, is it not well that I should see him?" Old Balatka groaned, but said nothing further,
and Nina went forth to the Jews' quarter.

On this occasion she found Trendellsohn the elder standing at the door of his own house.

"You want to see Anton," said the Jew. Anton is out. He is away somewhere in the city--on business."

"I shall be glad to see you, father, if you can spare me a minute."

"Certainly, my child--an hour if it will serve you. Hours are not scarce with me now, as they
used to be when I was Anton's age, and as they are with him now. Hours, and minutes too, are
very scarce with Anton in these days. Then he led the way up the dark stairs to the sitting-room,
and Nina followed him. Nina and the elder Trendellsohn had always hitherto been friends. Before
her engagement with his son they had been affectionate friends, and since that had been made
known to him there had been no quarrel between them. But the old man had hardly approved of
his son's purpose, thinking that a Jew should look for the wife of his bosom among his own
people, and thinking also, perhaps, that one who had so much of worldly wealth to offer as
his son should receive something also of the same in his marriage. Old Trendellsohn had never
uttered a word of complaint to Nina--had said nothing to make her suppose that she was not
welcome to the house; but he had never spoken to her with happy, joy-giving words, as the future
bride of his son. He still called her his daughter, as he had done before; but he did it only
in his old fashion, using the affectionate familiarity of an old friend to a young maiden.
He was a small, aged man, very thin and meagre in aspect--so meagre as to conceal in part,
by the general tenuity of his aspect, the shortness of his stature. He was not even so tall
as Nina, as Nina had discovered, much to her surprise. His hair was grizzled, rather than grey,
and the beard on his thin, wiry, wizened face was always close shorn. He was scrupulously clean
in his person, and seemed, even at his age, to take a pride in the purity and fineness of his
linen. He was much older than Nina's father--more than ten years older, as he would sometimes
boast; but he was still strong and active, while Nina's father was worn out with age. Old Trendellsohn
was eighty, and yet he would be seen trudging about through the streets of Prague, intent upon
his business of money-making; and it was said that his son Anton was not even as yet actually
in partnership with him, or fully trusted by him in all his plans.

"Father," Nina said, "I am glad that Anton is out, as now I can speak a word to you."

"My dear, you shall speak fifty words."

"That is very good of you. Of course I know that the house we live in does in truth belong
to you and Anton."

"Yes, it belongs to me," said the Jew.

"And we can pay no rent for it."

"Is it of that you have come to speak, Nina? If so, do not trouble yourself. For certain reasons,
which Anton can explain, I am willing that your father should live there without rent."

Nina blushed as she found herself compelled to thank the Jew for his charity. "I know how kind
you have been to father," she said.

"Nay, my daughter, there has been no great kindness in it. Your father has been unfortunate,
and, Jew as I am, I would not turn him into the street. Do not trouble yourself to think of it."

"But it was not altogether about that, father. Anton spoke to me the other day about some deeds
which should belong to you."

"They do belong to me," said Trendellsohn.

"But you have them not in your own keeping."

"No, we have not. It is, I believe, the creed of a Christian that he may deal dishonestly with
a Jew, though the Jew who shall deal dishonestly with a Christian is to be hanged. It is strange
what latitude men will give themselves under the cloak of their religion! But why has Anton
spoken to you of this? I did not bid him."

"He sent me with a message to my aunt Sophie."

"He was wrong; he was very foolish; he should have gone himself."

"But, father, I have found out that the papers you want are certainly in my uncle's keeping
in the Ross Markt."

"Of course they are, my dear. Anton might have known that without employing you."

So far Nina had performed but a small part of the task which she had before her. She found
it easier to talk to the old man about the title- deeds of the house in the Kleinseite than
she did to tell him of her own affairs. But the thing was to be done, though the doing of it
was difficult; and, after a pause, she persevered. "And I told aunt Sophie," she said, with
her eyes turned upon the ground, "of my engagement with Anton."

"You did?"

"Yes; and I told father."

"And what did your father say?"

"Father did not say much. He is poorly and weak."

"Yes, yes; not strong enough to fight against the abomination of a Jew son-in-law. And what
did your aunt say? She is strong enough to fight anybody."

"She was very angry."

"I suppose so, I suppose so. Well, she is right. As the world goes in Prague, my child, you
will degrade yourself by marrying a Jew."

"I want nothing prouder than to be Anton's wife," said Nina.

"And to speak sooth," said the old man, "the Jew will degrade himself fully as much by marrying
you."

"Father, I would not have that. If I thought that my love would injure him, I would leave him."

"He must judge for himself," said Trendellsohn, relenting somewhat.

"He must judge for himself and for me too," said Nina.

"He will be able, at any rate, to keep a house over your head."

"It is not for that," said Nina, thinking of her cousin Ziska's offer. She need not want for
a house and money if she were willing to sell herself for such things as them.

"Anton will be rich, Nina, and you are very poor."

"Can I help that, father? Such as I am, I am his. If all Prague were mine I would give it to him."

The old man shook his head. "A Christian thinks that it is too much honour for a Jew to marry
a Christian, though he be rich, and she have not a ducat for her dower."

"Father, your words are cruel. Do you believe I would give Anton my hand if I did not love
him? I do not know much of his wealth; but, father, I might be the promised wife of a Christian
to-morrow, who is, perhaps, as rich as he--if that were anything."

"And who is that other lover, Nina?"

"It matters not. He can be nothing to me--nothing in that way. I love Anton Trendellsohn, and
I could not be the wife of any other but him."

"I wish it were otherwise. I tell you so plainly to your face. I wish it were otherwise. Jews
and Christians have married in Prague, I know, but good has never come of it. Anton should
find a wife among his own people; and you--it would be better for you to take that other offer
of which you spoke."

"It is too late, father."

"No, Nina, it is not too late. If Anton would be wise, it is not too late."

"Anton can do as he pleases. It is too late for me. If Anton thinks it well to change his mind,
I shall not reproach him. You can tell him so, father--from me."

"He knows my mind already, Nina. I will tell him, however, what you say of your own friends.
They have heard of your engagement, and are angry with you, of course."

"Aunt Sophie and her people are angry."

"Of course they will oppose it. They will set their priests at you, and frighten you almost
to death. They will drive the life out of your young heart with their curses. You do not know
what sorrows are before you."

"I can bear all that. There is only one sorrow that I fear. If Anton is true to me, I will
not mind all the rest." And as for deeds, he declared, with something of a grim smile on his
old visage, that though a Jew had always a hard fight to get his own from a Christian, the
hard fighting did generally prevail at last. "We shall get them, Nina, when they have put us
to such trouble and expense as their laws may be able to devise. Anton knows that as well as I do."

At the door of the house Nina found the old man's grand-daughter waiting for her. Ruth Jacobi
was the girl's name, and she was the orphaned child of a daughter of old Trendellsohn. Father
and mother were both dead; and of her father, who had been dead long, Ruth had no memory. But
she still wore some remains of the black garments which had been given to her at her mother's
funeral; and she still grieved bitterly for her mother, having no woman with her in that gloomy
house, and no other child to comfort her. Her grandfather and her uncle were kind to her--kind
after their own gloomy fashion; but it was a sad house for a young girl, and Ruth, though she
knew nothing of any better abode, found the days to be very long, and the months to be very
wearisome.

"What has he been saying to you, Nina?" the girl asked, taking hold of her friend's dress,
to prevent her escape into the street. "You need not be in a hurry for a minute. He will not
come down."

"I am not afraid of him. Ruth."

"I am, then. But perhaps he is not cross to you."

"Why should he be cross to me?"

"I know why, Nina, but I will not say. Uncle Anton has been out all the day, and was not home
to dinner. It is much worse when he is away."

"Is Anton ever cross to you, Ruth?"

"Indeed he is--sometimes. He scolds much more than grandfather. But he is younger, you know."

"Yes; he is younger, certainly."

"Not but what he is very old, too; much too old for you, Nina. When I have a lover I will never
have an old man."

"But Anton is not old."

"Not like grandfather, of course. But I should like a lover who would laugh and be gay. Uncle
Anton is never gay. My lover shall be only two years older than myself. Uncle Anton must be
twenty years older than you, Nina."

"Not more than ten--or twelve at the most."

"He is too old to laugh and dance."

"Not at all, dear; but he thinks of other things."

"I should like a lover to think of the things that I think about. It is all very well being
steady when you have got babies of your own; but that should be after ever so long. I should
like to keep my lover as a lover for two years. And all that time he should like to dance with
me, and to hear music, and to go about just where I would like to go."

"And what then, Ruth?"

"Then? Why, then I suppose I should marry him, and become stupid like the rest. But I should
have the two years to look back at and to remember. Do you think, Nina, that you will ever
come and live here when you are married?"

"I do not know that I shall ever be married, Ruth."

"But you mean to marry uncle Anton?"

"I cannot say. It may be so."

"But you love him, Nina?"

"Yes, I love him. I love him with all my heart. I love him better than all the world besides.
Ruth, you cannot tell how I love him. I would lie down and die if he were to bid me."

"He will never bid you do that."

"You think that he is old, and dull, and silent, and cross. But when he will sit still and
not say a word to me for an hour together, I think that I almost love him the best. I only
want to be near him, Ruth."

"But you do not like him to be cross."

"Yes, I do. That is, I like him to scold me if he is angry. If he were angry, and did not scold
a little, I should think that he was really vexed with me."

Then you must be very much in love, Nina?"

"I am in love--very much."

"And does it make you happy?"

"Happy! Happiness depends on so many things. But it makes me feel that there can only be one
real unhappiness; and unless that should come to me, I shall care for nothing. Good-bye, love.
Tell your uncle that I was here, and say--say to him when no one else can hear, that I went
away with a sad heart because I had not seen him."

It was late in the evening when Anton Trendellsohn came home, but Ruth remembered the message
that had been intrusted to her, and managed to find a moment in which to deliver it. But her
uncle took it amiss, and scolded her. "You two have been talking nonsense together here half
the day, I suppose."

"I spoke to her for five minutes, uncle; that was all."

"Did you do your lessons with Madame Pulsky?"

"Yes, I did, uncle--of course. You know that."

"I know that it is a pity you should not be better looked after."

"Bring Nina home here and she will look after me."

"Go to bed, miss--at once, do you hear?"

Then Ruth went off to her bed, wondering at Nina's choice, and declaring to herself, that if
ever she took in hand a lover at all, he should be a lover very different from her uncle, Anton
Trendellsohn.

CHAPTER V

The more Madame Zamenoy thought of the terrible tidings which had reached her, the more determined
did she become to prevent the degradation of the connection with which she was threatened.
She declared to her husband and son that all Prague were already talking of the horror, forgetting,
perhaps, that any knowledge which Prague had on the subject must have come from herself. She
had, indeed, consulted various persons on the subject in the strictest confidence. We have
already seen that she had told Lotta Luxa and her son, and she had, of course, complained frequently
on the matter to her husband. She had unbosomed herself to one or two trusty female friends
who lived near her, and she had applied for advice and assistance to two priests. To Father
Jerome she had gone as Nina's confessor, and she had also applied to the reverend pastor who
had the charge of her own little peccadilloes. The small amount of assistance which her clerical
allies offered to her had surprised her very much. She had, indeed, gone so far as to declare
to Lotta that she was shocked by their indifference. Her own confessor had simply told her
that the matter was in the hands of Father Jerome, as far as it could be said to belong to
the Church at all; and had satisfied his conscience by advising his dear friend to use all
the resources which female persecution put at her command. "You will frighten her out of it,
Madame Zamenoy, if you go the right way about it," said the priest. Madame Zamenoy was well
inclined to go the right way about it, if she only knew how. She would make Nina's life a burden
to her if she could only get hold of the girl, and would scruple at no threats as to this world
or the next. But she thought that her priest ought to have done more for her in such a crisis
than simply giving her such ordinary counsel. Things were not as they used to be, she knew;
but there was even yet something of the prestige of power left to the Church, and there were
convents with locks and bars, and excommunication might still be made terrible, and public
opinion, in the shape of outside persecution, might, as Madame Zamenoy thought, have been brought
to bear. Nor did she get much more comfort from Father Jerome. His reliance was placed chiefly
on operations to be carried on with the Jew; and, failing them, on the opposition which the
Jew would experience among his own people. "They think more of it than we do," said Father Jerome.

"How can that be, Father Jerome?"

"Well, they do. He would lose caste among all his friends by such a marriage, and would, I
think, destroy all his influence among them. When he perceives this more fully he will be shy
enough about it himself. Besides, what is he to get?"

"He will get nothing."

"He will think better of it. And you might manage something with those deeds. Of course he
should have them sooner or later, but they might be surrendered as the price of his giving
her up. I should say it might be managed."

All this was not comfortable for Madame Zamenoy; and she fretted and fumed till her husband
had no peace in his house, and Ziska almost wished that he might hear no more of the Jew and
his betrothal. She could not even commence her system of persecution, as Nina did not go near
her, and had already told Lotta Luxa that she must decline to discuss the question of her marriage
any further. So, at last, Madame Zamenoy found herself obliged to go over in person to the
house in the Kleinseite. Such visits had for many years been very rare with her. Since her
sister's death and the days in which the Balatkas had been prosperous, she had preferred that
all intercourse between the two families should take place at her own house; and thus, as Josef
Balatka himself rarely left his own door, she had not seen him for more than two years. Frequent
intercourse, however, had been maintained, and aunt Sophie knew very well how things were going
on in the Kleinseite. Lotta had no compunctions as to visiting the house, and Lotta's eyes
were very sharp. And Nina had been frequently in the Windberg-gasse, having hitherto believed
it to be her duty to attend to her aunt's behests. But Nina was no longer obedient, and Madame
Zamenoy was compelled to go herself to her brother-in-law, unless she was disposed to leave
the Balatkas absolutely to their fate. Let her do what she would, Nina must be her niece, and
therefore she would yet make a struggle.

On this occasion Madame Zamenoy walked on foot, thinking that her carriage and horses might
be too conspicuous at the arched gate in the little square. The carriage did not often make
its way over the bridge into the Kleinseite, being used chiefly among the suburbs of the New
Town, where it was now well known and quickly recognised; and she did not think that this was
a good opportunity for breaking into new ground with her equipage. She summoned Lotta to attend
her, and after her one o'clock dinner took her umbrella in her hand and went forth. She was
a stout woman, probably not more than forty-five years of age, but a little heavy, perhaps
from too much indulgence with her carriage. She walked slowly, therefore; and Lotta, who was
nimble of foot and quick in all her ways, thanked her stars that it did not suit her mistress
to walk often through the city.

"How very long the bridge is, Lotta!" said Madame Zamenoy.

"Not longer, ma'am, than it always has been," said Lotta, pertly.

"Of course it is not longer than it always has been; I know that; but still I say it is very
long. Bridges are not so long in other places."

"Not where the rivers are narrower," said Lotta. Madame Zamenoy trudged on, finding that she
could get no comfort from her servant, and at last reached Balatka's door. Lotta, who was familiar
with the place, entered the house first, and her mistress followed her. Hanging about the broad
passage which communicated with all the rooms on the ground-floor, they found Souchey, who
told them that his master was in bed, and that Nina was at work by his bedside. He was sent
in to announce the grand arrival, and when Madame Zamenoy entered the sitting-room Nina was
there to meet her.

"Child," she said, "I have come to see your father."

"Father is in bed, but you can come in," said Nina.

"Of course I can go in," said Madame Zamenoy, "but before I go in let me know this. Has he
heard of the disgrace which you purpose to bring upon him?"

Nina drew herself up and made no answer; whereupon Lotta spoke. "The old gentleman knows all
about it, ma'am, as well as you do."

"Lotta, let the child speak for herself. Nina, have you had the audacity to tell your father--that
which you told me?"

"I have told him everything," said Nina; "will you come into his room?" Then Madame Zamenoy
lifted up the hem of her garment and stepped proudly into the old man's chamber.

By this time Balatka knew what was about to befall him, and was making himself ready for the
visit. He was well aware that he should be sorely perplexed as to what he should say in the
coming interview. He could not speak lightly of such an evil as this marriage with a Jew; nor
when his sister-in-law should abuse the Jews could he dare to defend them. But neither could
he bring himself to say evil words of Nina, or to hear evil words spoken of her without making
some attempt to screen her. It might be best, perhaps, to lie under the bed-clothes and say
nothing, if only his sister-in-law would allow him to lie there. "Am I to come in with you,
aunt Sophie?" said Nina. "Yes child," said the aunt; "come and hear what I have to say to your
father." So Nina followed her aunt, and Lotta and Souchey were left in the sitting-room.

"And how are you, Souchey?" said Lotta, with unusual kindness of tone. "I suppose you are not
so busy but you can stay with me a few minutes while she is in there?"

"There is not so much to do that I cannot spare the time," said Souchey.

"Nothing to do, I suppose, and less to get?" said Lotta.

"That's about it, Lotta; but you wouldn't have had me leave them?"

"A man has to look after himself in the world; but you were always easy-minded, Souchey."

"I don't know about being so easy-minded. I know what would make me easy-minded enough."

"You'll have to be servant to a Jew now."

"No; I'll never be that."

"I suppose he gives you something at odd times?"

"Who? Trendellsohn? I never saw the colour of his money yet, and do not wish to see it."

"But he comes here--sometimes?"

"Never, Lotta. I haven't seen Anton Trendellsohn within the doors these six months."

"But she goes to him?"

"Yes; she goes to him."

"That's worse--a deal worse."

"I told her how it was when I saw her trotting off so often to the Jews' quarter. 'You see
too much of Anton Trendellsohn,' I said to her; but it didn't do any good."

"You should have come to us, and have told us."

"What, Madame there? I could never have brought myself to that; she is so upsetting, Lotta."

"She is upsetting, no doubt; but she don't upset me. Why didn't you tell me, Souchey?"

"Well, I thought that if I said a word to her, perhaps that would be enough. Who could believe
that she would throw herself at once into a Jew's arms--such a fellow as Anton Trendellsohn,
too, old enough to be her father, and she the bonniest girl in all Prague?"

"Handsome is that handsome does, Souchey."

"I say she's the sweetest girl in all Prague; and more's the pity she should have taken such
a fancy as this."

"She mustn't marry him, of course, Souchey."

"Not if it can be helped, Lotta."

"It must be helped. You and I must help it, if no one else can do so."

"That's easy said, Lotta."

"We can do it, if we are minded--that is, if you are minded. Only think what a thing it would
be for her to be the wife of a Jew! Think of her soul, Souchey!"

Souchey shuddered. He did not like being told of people's souls, feeling probably that the
misfortunes of this world were quite heavy enough for a poor wight like himself, without any
addition in anticipation of futurity. "Think of her soul, Souchey," repeated Lotta, who was
at all points a good churchwoman.

"It's bad enough any way," said Souchey.

"And there's our Ziska would take her to-morrow in spite of the Jew."

"Would he now?"

"That he would, without anything but what she stands up in. And he'd behave very handsome to
anyone that would help him."

"He'd be the first of his name that ever did, then. I have known the time when old Balatka
there, poor as he is now, would give a florin when Karil Zamenoy begrudged six kreutzers."

"And what has come of such giving? Josef Balatka is poor, and Karil Zamenoy bids fair to be
as rich as any merchant in Prague. But no matter about that. Will you give a helping hand?
There is nothing I wouldn't do for you, Souchey, if we could manage this between us."

"Would you now?" And Souchey drew near, as though some closer bargain might be practicable
between them.

"I would indeed; but, Souchey, talking won't do it."

"What will do it?"

Lotta paused a moment, looking round the room carefully, till suddenly her eyes fell on a certain
article which lay on Nina's work-table. "What am I to do?" said Souchey, anxious to be at work
with the prospect of so great a reward.

"Never mind," said Lotta, whose tone of voice was suddenly changed. "Never mind it now at least.
And, Souchey, I think you'd better go to your work. We've been gossiping here ever so long."

"Perhaps five minutes; and what does it signify?"

"She'd think it so odd to find us here together in the parlour."

"Not odd at all."

"Just as though we'd been listening to what they'd been saying. Go now, Souchey--there's a
good fellow; and I'll come again the day after to- morrow and tell you. Go, I say. There are
things that I must think of by myself." And in this way she got Souchey to leave the room.

"Josef," said Madame Zamenoy, as she took her place standing by Balatka's bedside--"Josef,
this is very terrible." Nina also was standing close by her father's head, with her hand upon
her father's pillow. Balatka groaned, but made no immediate answer.

"It is terrible, horrible, abominable, and damnable," said Madame Zamenoy, bringing out one
epithet after the other with renewed energy. Balatka groaned again. What could he say in reply
to such an address?

"Aunt Sophie," said Nina, "do not speak to father like that. He is ill."

"Child," said Madame Zamenoy, "I shall speak as I please. I shall speak as my duty bids me
speak. Josef, this that I hear is very terrible. It is hardly to be believed that any Christian
girl should think of marrying--a Jew."

"What can I do?" said the father. "How can I prevent her?"

"How can you prevent her, Josef? Is she not your daughter? Does she mean to say, standing there,
that she will not obey her father? Tell me. Nina, will you or will you not obey your father?"

"That is his affair, aunt Sophie; not yours."

"His affair! It is his affair, and my affair, and all our affairs.

"You are thinking about yourself, aunt Sophie; and I must think for myself."

"You do not regard your father, then?"

"Yes, I do regard my father. He knows that I regard him. Father, is it true that I do not regard
you?"

"She is a good daughter," said the father.

"A good daughter, and talk of marrying a Jew!" said Madame Zamenoy. "Has she your permission
for such a marriage? Tell me that at once, Josef, that I may know. Has she your sanction for--for--for
this accursed abomination?" Then there was silence in the room for a few moments. "You can
at any rate answer a plain question, Josef," continued Madame Zamenoy. "Has Nina your leave
to betroth herself to the Jew, Trendellsohn?"

"No, I have not got his leave," said Nina.

"I am speaking to your father, miss," said the enraged aunt.

"Yes; you are speaking very roughly to father, and he is ill. Therefore I answer for him."

"And has he not forbidden you to think of marrying this Jew?"

"No, he has not," said Nina.

"Josef, answer for yourself like a man," said Madame Zamenoy. "Have you not forbidden this
marriage? Do you not forbid it now? Let me at any rate hear you say that you have forbidden
it." But Balatka found silence to be his easiest course, and answered not at all. "What am
I to think of this?" continued Madame Zamenoy. "It cannot be that you wish your child to be
the wife of a Jew!"

"You are to think, aunt Sophie, that father is ill, and that he cannot stand against your violence."

"Violence, you wicked girl! It is you that are violent."

"Will you come out into the parlour, aunt?"

"No, I will not come out into the parlour. I will not stir from this spot till I have told
your father all that I think about it. Ill, indeed! What matters illness when it is a question
of eternal damnation!" Madame Zamenoy put so much stress upon the latter word that her brother-in-law
almost jumped from under the bed-clothes. Nina raised herself, as she was standing, to her
full height, and a smile of derision came upon her face. "Oh, yes! I daresay you do not mind
it," said Madame Zamenoy. "I daresay you can laugh now at all the pains of hell. Castaways
such as you are always blind to their own danger; but your father, I hope, has not fallen so
far as to care nothing for his religion, though he seems to have forgotten what is due to his
family."

"I have forgotten nothing," said old Balatka.

"Why then do you not forbid her to do this thing?" demanded Madame Zamenoy. But the old man
had recognised too well the comparative security of silence to be drawn into argument, and
therefore merely hid himself more completely among the clothes. "Am I to get no answer from
you, Josef?" said Madame Zamenoy. No answer came, and therefore she was driven to turn again
upon Nina.

"Why are you doing this thing, you poor deluded creature? Is it the man's money that tempts you?"

"It is not the man's money. If money could tempt me, I could have it elsewhere, as you know."

"It cannot be love for such a man as that. Do you not know that he and his father between them
have robbed your father of everything?"

"I know nothing of the kind."

"They have; and he is now making a fool of you in order that he may get whatever remains."

"Nothing remains. He will get nothing."

"Nor will you. I do not believe that after all he will ever marry you. He will not be such a fool."

"Perhaps not, aunt; and in that case you will have your wish."

"But no one can ever speak to you again after such a condition. Do you think that I or your
uncle could have you at our house when all the world shall know that you have been jilted by
a Jew?"

"I will not trouble you by going to your house."

"And is that all the satisfaction I am to have?"

"What do you want me to say?"

I want you to say that you will give this man up, and return to your duty as a Christian."

"I will never give him up--never. I would sooner die."

"Very well. Then I shall know how to act. You will not be a bit nearer marrying him; I can
promise you that. You are mistaken if you think that in such a matter as this a girl like you
can do just as she pleases." Then she turned again upon the poor man in bed. "Josef Balatka,
I am ashamed of you. I am indeed--I am ashamed of you."

"Aunt Sophie," said Nina, "now that you are here, you can say what you please to me; but you
might as well spare father."

"I will not spare him. I am ashamed of him--thoroughly ashamed of him. What can I think of
him when he will lie there and not say a word to save his daughter from the machinations of
a filthy Jew?"

"Anton Trendellsohn is not a filthy Jew."

"He is a robber. He has cheated your father out of everything."

"He is no robber. He has cheated no one. I know who has cheated father, if you come to that."

"Whom do you mean, hussey?"

"I shall not answer you; but you need not tell me any more about the Jews cheating us. Christians
can cheat as well as Jews, and can rob from their own flesh and blood too. I do not care for
your threats, aunt Sophie, nor for your frowns. I did care for them, but you have said that
which makes it impossible that I should regard them any further."

"And this is what I get for all my trouble--for all your uncle's generosity!" Again Nina smiled.
"But I suppose the Jew gives more than we have given, and therefore is preferred. You poor
creature--poor wretched creature!"

During all this time Balatka remained silent; and at last, after very much more scolding, in
which Madame Zamenoy urged again and again the terrible threat of eternal punishment, she prepared
herself for going. "Lotta Luxa," she said, "--where is Lotta Luxa?" She opened the door, and
found Lotta Luxa seated demurely by the window. "Lotta," she said, "I shall go now, and shall
never come back to this unfortunate house. You hear what I say; I shall never return here.
As she makes her bed, so must she lie on it. It is her own doing, and no one can save her.
For my part, I think that the Jew has bewitched her."

"Like enough," said Lotta.

"When once we stray from the Holy Church, there is no knowing what terrible evils may come
upon us," said Madame Zamenoy.

"No indeed, ma'am," said Lotta Luxa.

"But I have done all in my power."

"That you have, ma'am."

"I feel quite sure, Lotta, that the Jew will never marry her. Why should a man like that, who
loves money better than his soul, marry a girl who has not a kreutzer to bless herself?"

"Why indeed, ma'am! It's my mind that he don't think of marrying her."

"And, Jew as he is, he cares for his religion. He will not bring trouble upon everybody belonging
to him by taking a Christian for his wife."

"That he will not, ma'am, you may be sure," said Lotta.

"And where will she be then? Only fancy, Lotta--to have been jilted by a Jew!" Then Madame
Zamenoy, without addressing herself directly to Nina, walked out of the room; but as she did
so she paused in the doorway, and again spoke to Lotta. "To be jilted by a Jew, Lotta! Think
of that."

"I should drown myself," said Lotta Luxa. And then they both were gone.

The idea that the Jew might jilt her disturbed Nina more than all her aunt's anger, or than
any threats as to the penalties she might have to encounter in the next world. She felt a certain
delight, an inward satisfaction, in giving up everything for her Jew lover--a satisfaction
which was the more intense, the more absolute was the rejection and the more crushing the scorn
which she encountered on his behalf from her own people. But to encounter this rejection and
scorn, and then to be thrown over by the Jew, was more than she could endure. And would it,
could it, be so? She sat down to think of it; and as she thought of it terrible fears came
upon her. Old Trendellsohn had told her that such a marriage on his son's part would bring
him into great trouble; and old Trendellsohn was not harsh with her as her aunt was harsh.
The old man, in his own communications with her, had always been kind and forbearing. And then
Anton himself was severe to her. Though he would now and again say some dear, well-to-be-remembered
happy word, as when he told her that she was his sun, and that he looked to her for warmth
and light, such soft speakings were few with him and far between. And then he never mentioned
any time as the probable date of their marriage. If only a time could be fixed, let it be ever
so distant, Nina thought that she could still endure all the cutting taunts of her enemies.
But what would she do if Anton were to announce to her some day that he found himself, as a
Jew, unable to marry with her as a Christian? In such a case she thought that she must drown
herself, as Lotta had suggested to her.

As she sat thinking of this, her eyes suddenly fell upon the one key which she herself possessed,
and which, with a woman's acuteness of memory, she perceived to have been moved from the spot
on which she had left it. It was the key of the little desk which stood in the corner of the
parlour, and in which, on the top of all the papers, was deposited the necklace with which
she intended to relieve the immediate necessities of their household. She at once remembered
that Lotta had been left for a long time in the room, and with anxious, quick suspicion she
went to the desk. But her suspicions had wronged Lotta. There, lying on a bundle of letters,
was the necklace, in the exact position in which she had left it. She kissed the trinket, which
had come to her from her mother, replaced it carefully, and put the key into her pocket.

