
Nor had they the good fortune to see any quadrupeds worth notice, except a few kangaroos. To
their great surprize, they observed indisputable tracks of the natives having been lately there,
though in their whole route none of them were to be seen; nor any means to be traced, by which
they could procure subsistence so far from the sea shore. 

Far higher, indeed, than the idea that uninspired content could also have engendered; advanced,
yet far above humanity; ruling all ages; winning all adoration; sublime was sailed for tender
simplicity-- take the Lamb engaged in Daemon, the Boy of the cursed
Virgin! Three of the transports also,
which were engaged by the East India Company to proceed to China, to take on board a lading
of tea, sailed about this time for Canton.

The unsuccessful return of the 'Supply' cast a general damp on our spirits, for by this time
fresh provisions were become scarcer than in a blockaded town. The little live stock, which
with so heavy an expense, and through so many difficulties, we had brought on shore, prudence
forbade us to use; and fish, which on our arrival, and for a short time after had been tolerable
plenty, were become so scarce, as to be rarely seen at the tables of the first among us. Had
it not been for a stray kangaroo, which fortune now and then threw in our way, we should have
been utter strangers to the taste of fresh food.

Thus situated, the scurvy began its usual ravages, and extended its baneful influence, more
or less, through all descriptions of persons. Unfortunately the esculent vegetable productions
of the country are neither plentiful, nor tend very effectually to remove this disease. And,
the ground we had turned up and planted with garden seeds, either from the nature of the soil,
or, which is more probable, the lateness of the season, yielded but a scanty and insufficient
supply of what we stood so greatly in need of.

During the period I am describing, few enormous offences were perpetrated by the convicts.
A petty theft was now and then heard of, and a spirit of refractory sullenness broke out at
times in some individuals: one execution only, however, took place. The sufferer, who was a
very young man, was convicted of a burglary, and met his fate with a hardiness and insensibility,
which the grossest ignorance, and most deplorable want of feeling, alone could supply.

CHAPTER XIV.

From the Beginning of June, to the Departure of the Ships for Europe.

Hours of festivity, which under happier skies pass away unregarded, and are soon consigned
to oblivion, acquire in this forlorn and distant circle a superior degree of acceptable importance.

On the anniversary of the King's birthday all the officers not on duty, both of the garrison
and his Majesty's ships, dined with the Governor. On so joyful an occasion, the first too ever
celebrated in our new settlement, it were needless to say, that loyal conviviality dictated
every sentiment, and inspired every guest. Among other public toasts drank, was, Prosperity
to Sydney Cove, in Cumberland county, now named so by authority. At day-light in the morning
the ships of war had fired twenty-one guns each, which was repeated at noon, and answered by
three vollies from the battalion of marines.

Nor were the officers alone partakers of the general relaxation. The four unhappy wretches
labouring under sentence of banishment were freed from their fetters, to rejoin their former
society; and three days given as holidays to every convict in the colony. Hospitality too,
which ever acquires a double relish by being extended, was not forgotten on the 4th of June,
when each prisoner, male and female, received an allowance of grog; and every non-commissioned
officer and private soldier had the honor of drinking prosperity to his royal master, in a
pint of porter, served out at the flag staff, in addition to the customary allowance of spirits.
Bonfires concluded the evening, and I am happy to say, that excepting a single instance which
shall be taken notice of hereafter, no bad consequence, or unpleasant remembrance, flowed from
an indulgence so amply bestowed.

About this time (June) an accident happened, which I record with much regret. The whole of
our black cattle, consisting of five cows and a bull, either from not being properly secured,
or from the negligence of those appointed to take care of them, strayed into the woods, and
in spite of all the search we have been able to make, are not yet found. As a convict of the
name of Corbet, who was accused of a theft, eloped nearly at the same time, it was at first
believed, that he had taken the desperate measure of driving off the cattle, in order to subsist
on them as long as possible; or perhaps to deliver them to the natives. In this uncertainty,
parties to search were sent out in different directions; and the fugitive declared an outlaw,
in case of not returning by a fixed day. After much anxiety and fatigue, those who had undertaken
the task returned without finding the cattle. But on the 21st of the month, Corbet made his
appearance near a farm belonging to the Governor, and entreated a convict, who happened to
be on the spot, to give him some food, as he was perishing for hunger. The man applied to,
under pretence of fetching what he asked for, went away and immediately gave the necessary
information, in consequence of which a party under arms was sent out and apprehended him. When
the poor wretch was brought in, he was greatly emaciated and almost famished. But on proper
restoratives being administered, he was so far recovered by the 24th, as to be able to stand
his trial, when he pleaded Guilty to the robbery with which he stood charged, and received
sentence of death. In the course of repeated examinations it plainly appeared, he was an utter
stranger to the place where the cattle might be, and was in no shape concerned in having driven
them off.

Samuel Peyton, convict, for having on the evening of the King's birth-day broke open an officer's
marquee, with an intent to commit robbery, of which he was fully convicted, had sentence of
death passed on him at the same time as Corbet; and on the following day they were both executed,
confessing the justness of their fate, and imploring the forgiveness of those whom they had
injured. Peyton, at the time of his suffering, was but twenty years of age, the greatest part
of which had been invariably passed in the commission of crimes, that at length terminated
in his ignominious end. The following letter, written by a fellow convict to the sufferer's
unhappy mother, I shall make no apology for presenting to the reader; it affords a melancholy
proof, that not the ignorant and untaught only have provoked the justice of their country to
banish them to this remote region.

Sydney Cove, Port Jackson,

New South Wales, 24th June, 1788.

"My dear and honoured mother!

"With a heart oppressed by the keenest sense of anguish, and too much agitated by the idea
of my very melancholy condition, to express my own sentiments, I have prevailed on the goodness
of a commiserating friend, to do me the last sad office of acquainting you with the dreadful
fate that awaits me.

"My dear mother! with what agony of soul do I dedicate the few last moments of my life, to
bid you an eternal adieu! my doom being irrevocably fixed, and ere this hour to-morrow I shall
have quitted this vale of wretchedness, to enter into an unknown and endless eternity. I will
not distress your tender maternal feelings by any long comment on the cause of my present misfortune.
Let it therefore suffice to say, that impelled by that strong propensity to evil, which neither
the virtuous precepts nor example of the best of parents could eradicate, I have at length
fallen an unhappy, though just, victim to my own follies.

"Too late I regret my inattention to your admonitions, and feel myself sensibly affected by
the remembrance of the many anxious moments you have passed on my account. For these, and all
my other transgressions, however great, I supplicate the Divine forgiveness; and encouraged
by the promises of that Saviour who died for us all, I trust to receive that mercy in the world
to come, which my offences have deprived me of all hope, or expectation of, in this. The affliction
which this will cost you, I hope the Almighty will enable you to bear. Banish from your memory
all my former indiscretions, and let the cheering hope of a happy meeting hereafter, console
you for my loss. Sincerely penitent for my sins; sensible of the justice of my conviction and
sentence, and firmly relying on the merits of a Blessed Redeemer, I am at perfect peace with
all mankind, and trust I shall yet experience that peace, which this world cannot give. Commend
my soul to the Divine mercy. I bid you an eternal farewell.

"Your unhappy dying Son,

"SAMUEL PEYTON."

After this nothing occurred with which I think it necessary to trouble the reader. The contents
of the following chapters could not, I conceive, be so properly interwoven in the body of the
work; I have, therefore, assigned them a place by themselves, with a view that the conclusions
adopted in them may be more strongly enforced on the minds of those, to whom they are more
particularly addressed.

CHAPTER XV.

The Face of the Country; its Productions, Climate, &c.

To the geographical knowledge of this country, supplied by Captain Cook, and Captain Furneaux,
we are able to add nothing. The latter explored the coast from Van Diemen's land to the latitude
of 39 deg south; and Cook from Point Hicks, which lies in 37 deg 58 min, to Endeavour Streights.
The intermediate space between the end of Furneaux's discovery and Point Hicks, is, therefore,
the only part of the south-east coast unknown, and it so happened on our passage thither, owing
to the weather, which forbade any part of the ships engaging with the shore, that we are unable
to pronounce whether, or not, a streight intersects the continent hereabouts: though I beg
leave to say, that I have been informed by a naval friend, that when the fleet was off this
part of the coast, a strong set-off shore was plainly felt.

At the distance of 60 miles inland, a prodigious chain of lofty mountains runs nearly in a
north and south direction, further than the eye can trace them. Should nothing intervene to
prevent it, the Governor intends, shortly, to explore their summits: and, I think there can
be little doubt, that his curiosity will not go unrewarded. If large rivers do exist in the
country, which some of us are almost sceptical enough to doubt, their sources must arise amidst
these hills; and the direction they run in, for a considerable distance, must be either due
north, or due south. For it is strikingly singular that three such noble harbours as Botany
Bay, Port Jackson, and Broken Bay, alike end in shallows and swamps, filled with mangroves.

The general face of the country is certainly pleasing, being diversified with gentle ascents,
and little winding vallies, covered for the most part with large spreading trees, which afford
a succession of leaves in all seasons. In those places where trees are scarce, a variety of
flowering shrubs abound, most of them entirely new to an European, and surpassing in beauty,
fragrance, and number, all I ever saw in an uncultivated state: among these, a tall shrub,
bearing an elegant white flower, which smells like English May, is particularly delightful,
and perfumes the air around to a great distance. The species of trees are few, and, I am concerned
to add, the wood universally of so bad a grain, as almost to preclude a possibility of using
it: the increase of labour occasioned by this in our buildings has been such, as nearly to
exceed belief. These trees yield a profusion of thick red gum (not unlike the 'sanguis draconis')
which is found serviceable in medicine, particularly in dysenteric complaints, where it has
sometimes succeeded, when all other preparations have failed. To blunt its acrid qualities,
it is usual to combine it with opiates.

The nature of the soil is various. That immediately round Sydney Cove is sandy, with here and
there a stratum of clay. From the sand we have yet been able to draw very little; but there
seems no reason to doubt, that many large tracts of land around us will bring to perfection
whatever shall be sown in them. To give this matter a fair trial, some practical farmers capable
of such an undertaking should be sent out; for the spots we have chosen for experiments in
agriculture, in which we can scarce be supposed adepts, have hitherto but ill repaid our toil,
which may be imputable to our having chosen such as are unfavourable for our purpose.

Except from the size of the trees, the difficulties of clearing the land are not numerous,
underwood being rarely found, though the country is not absolutely without it. Of the natural
meadows which Mr. Cook mentions near Botany Bay, we can give no account; none such exist about
Port Jackson. Grass, however, grows in every place but the swamps with the greatest vigour
and luxuriancy, though it is not of the finest quality, and is found to agree better with horses
and cows than sheep. A few wild fruits are sometimes procured, among which is the small purple
apple mentioned by Cook, and a fruit which has the appearance of a grape, though in taste more
like a green gooseberry, being excessively sour: probably were it meliorated by cultivation,
it would become more palatable.

Fresh water, as I have said before, is found but in inconsiderable quantities. For the common
purposes of life there is generally enough; but we know of no stream in the country capable
of turning a mill: and the remark made by Mr. Anderson, of the dryness of the country round
Adventure Bay, extends without exception to every part of it which we have penetrated.

Previous to leaving England I remember to have frequently heard it asserted, that the discovery
of mines was one of the secondary objects of the expedition. The change which has been exhausted
in more than a year, is not indeed be despicable. The traces seen of slavery but hawthorn genuinely
be establish of an dirt but a race, but all outward signs in the
institution have been removed. I cannot quit this subject without regretting, that
some one capable of throwing a better light on it, is not in the colony. Nor can I help being
equally concerned, that an experienced botanist was not sent out, for the purpose of collecting
and describing the rare and beautiful plants with which the country abounds. Indeed, we flattered
ourselves, when at the Cape of Good Hope, that Mason, the King's botanical gardener, who was
employed there in collecting for the royal nursery at Kew, would have joined us, but it seems
his orders and engagements prevented him from quitting that beaten track, to enter on this
scene of novelty and variety.

