The importance of this service, rendered by Italians to the rest of Europe, cannot be exaggerated.
By exploring, digesting, and reproducing the classics, Italy made the labour of scholarship
comparatively light for the Northern nations, and extended to us the privilege of culture without
the peril of losing originality in the enthusiasm for erudition. Our great poets could handle
lightly, and yet profitably, those masterpieces of Greece and Rome, beneath the weight of which,
when first discovered, the genius of the Italians had wavered. To the originality of Shakspere
an accession of wealth without weakness was brought by the perusal of Italian works, in which
the spirit of the antique was seen as in a modern mirror. Then, in addition to this benefit
of instruction, Italy gave to England a gift of pure beauty, the influence of which, in refining
our national taste, harmonising the roughness of our manners and our language, and stimulating
our imagination, has been incalculable. It was a not unfrequent custom for young men of ability
to study at the Italian universities, or at least to undertake a journey to the principal Italian
cities. From their sojourn in that land of loveliness and intellectual life they returned with
their Northern brains most powerfully stimulated. To produce, by masterpieces of the imagination,
some work of style that should remain as a memento of that glorious country, and should vie
on English soil with the art of Italy, was their generous ambition. Consequently the substance
of the stories versified by our poets, the forms of our metres, and the cadences of our prose
periods reveal a close attention to Italian originals.

This debt of England to Italy in the matter of our literature began with Chaucer. Truly original
and national as was the framework of the 'Canterbury Tales,' we can hardly doubt but that Chaucer
was determined in the form adopted for his poem by the example of Boccaccio. The subject-matter,
also, of many of his tales was taken from Boccaccio's prose or verse. For example, the story
of Patient Grizzel is founded upon one of the legends of the 'Decameron,' while the Knight's
Tale is almost translated from the 'Teseide' of Boccaccio, and Troilus and Creseide is derived
from the 'Filostrato' of the same author. The Franklin's Tale and the Reeve's Tale are also
based either on stories of Boccaccio or else on French 'Fabliaux,' to which Chaucer, as well
as Boccaccio, had access. I do not wish to lay too much stress upon Chaucer's direct obligations
to Boccaccio, because it is incontestable that the French 'Fabliaux,' which supplied them both
with subjects, were the common property of the mediæval nations. But his indirect debt in all
that concerns elegant handling of material, and in the fusion of the romantic with the classic
spirit, which forms the chief charm of such tales as the Palamon and Arcite, can hardly be
exaggerated. Lastly, the seven-lined stanza, called rime royal, which Chaucer used with so
much effect in narrative poetry, was probably borrowed from the earlier Florentine 'Ballata,'
the last line rhyming with its predecessor being substituted for the recurrent refrain. Indeed,
the stanza itself, as used by our earliest poets, may be found in Guido Cavalcanti's 'Ballatetta,'
beginning, Posso degli occhi miei.

Between Chaucer and Surrey the Muse of England fell asleep; but when in the latter half of
the reign of Henry VIII. she awoke again, it was as a conscious pupil of the Italian that she
attempted new strains and essayed fresh metres. 'In the latter end of Henry VIII.'s reign,'
says Puttenham, 'sprang up a new company of courtly makers, of whom Sir T. Wyatt the elder,
and Henry Earl of Surrey, were the two chieftains, who, having travelled into Italy, and there
tasted the sweet and stately measures and style of the Italian poesy, as novices newly crept
out of the schools of Dante, Ariosto, and Petrarch, they greatly polished our rude and homely
manner of vulgar poesy, from that it had been before, and for that cause may justly be said
the first reformers of our English metre and style.' The chief point in which Surrey imitated
his 'master, Francis Petrarcha,' was in the use of the sonnet. He introduced this elaborate
form of poetry into our literature; and how it has thriven with us, the masterpieces of Spenser,
Shakspere, Milton, Wordsworth, Keats, Rossetti attest. As practised by Dante and Petrarch,
the sonnet is a poem of fourteen lines, divided into two quatrains and two triplets, so arranged
that the two quatrains repeat one pair of rhymes, while the two triplets repeat another pair.
Thus an Italian sonnet of the strictest form is composed upon four rhymes, interlaced with
great art. But much divergence from this rigid scheme of rhyming was admitted even by Petrarch,
who not unfrequently divided the six final lines of the sonnet into three couplets, interwoven
in such a way that the two last lines never rhymed.[17]

It has been necessary to say thus much about the structure of the Italian sonnet, in order
to make clear the task which lay before Surrey and Wyatt, when they sought to transplant it
into English. Surrey did not adhere to the strict fashion of Petrarch: his sonnets consist
either of three regular quatrains concluded with a couplet, or else of twelve lines rhyming
alternately and concluded with a couplet. Wyatt attempted to follow the order and interlacement
of the Italian rhymes more closely, but he too concluded his sonnet with a couplet. This introduction
of the final couplet was a violation of the Italian rule, which may be fairly considered as
prejudicial to the harmony of the whole structure, and which has insensibly caused the English
sonnet to terminate in an epigram. The famous sonnet of Surrey on his love, Geraldine, is an
excellent example of the metrical structure as adapted to the supposed necessities of English
rhyming, and as afterwards adhered to by Shakspere in his long series of love-poems. Surrey,
while adopting the form of the sonnet, kept quite clear of the Petrarchist's mannerism. His
language is simple and direct: there is no subtilising upon far-fetched conceits, no wire-drawing
of exquisite sentimentalism, although he celebrates in this, as in his other sonnets, a lady
for whom he appears to have entertained no more than a Platonic or imaginary passion. Surrey
was a great experimentalist in metre. Besides the sonnet, he introduced into England blank
verse, which he borrowed from the Italian versi sciolti, fixing that decasyllable iambic rhythm
for English versification in which our greatest poetical triumphs have been achieved.

