The paddle-wheel really acts as a continuous oar. Such a wheel is shown in Fig. 33. As the
wheel goes around the paddle dips into the water and pushes the boat forward. If the direction
of the boat is to be reversed, the rotation of the paddle-wheels is reversed.

Before passing onto the screw, it may be well to explain just how a paddle-wheel causes a boat
to move. When a man gets into a rowboat, he generally pushes himself off by placing his oar
against the dock or shore and pushing on it. That is just what the paddle does in the water.
It dips into the water and pushes against it. It must be remembered, however, that water is
unlike a solid substance and it "gives." When a man places his oar against the bank and pushes
it, the bank does not move, and all of the man's energy is used in starting the boat. Water,
however, does not remain stationary when the paddles push against it, and therefore all of
the power it not utilized in moving the boat--part is used in moving the water.

The paddle-wheel is not so efficient in moving a boat as the more modern propeller--or screw,
as it is more often called. The screw receives its name from the ordinary metal screw, because
its theory of operation is exactly the same. A wood screw, when turned, forces itself into
wood. A propeller, when turned, forces itself (and thereby the boat) through the water. A small
propeller is illustrated in Fig. 34. This is an ordinary three-blade propeller. (The writer
prefers the word propeller instead of screw.)

From the drawing, it will be seen that the propeller-blades are mounted at an angle. This angle
of the blades causes them to force water back as they cut through it when the propeller is
revolving. This forcing of the water back tends to produce a forward motion of the propeller,
and in this way the boat on which the propeller is mounted moves through the water. The propeller
is caused to revolve by a steam-engine, steam-turbine, or gasolene-engine, as shown in Fig.
35. Longer boats have more than one propeller. A boat that has two propellers is called a twin-screw
boat. A boat driven with four propellers is called a quadruple-screw boat.

When a machine screw is turned around just once, it moves forward a certain distance, as a
glance at Fig. 36 will show. The distance the screw moves forward will depend entirely upon
the distance between the threads. The distance between the threads is called the pitch of the
thread. If the threads are 1/32 inch apart, then the screw will move 1/32 inch every time it
revolves.

If a propeller acts in the same way as a screw, then it too must have a pitch. The pitch, or
the distance that a propeller will advance in one revolution, is measured in inches. A propeller
with a pitch of ten inches should move ten inches through the water at each revolution. However,
there is a certain amount of "slip," and a propeller does not actually advance the distance
that it should theoretically. The pitch of a propeller is really the distance it would advance
in one revolution if it were revolving in an unyielding or solid substance.

To make a simple propeller, first cut out of thin sheet brass three blades as shown at A, Fig.
37. Sheet brass with a thickness of 1/32 inch is very suitable for this purpose. Next, a block,
as shown at B, is carefully carved out so that the propeller can be hammered down into the
depression. The same block is used for the three blades, so that each will have the same curvature.
The block should be cut from oak, since this wood will not split or lose its shape when the
forming is done.

The hub is made next. This is shown at C, Fig. 37. The hub, of brass, is made according to
the stream-line method. It is filed to shape from a piece of round brass stock. A hole runs
lengthwise in the brass, as shown, and a set-screw is used to hold the hub of the propeller-shaft.
The method of cutting the slots in the hub is shown at D, Fig. 37. The hub is clamped between
two boards placed in the vise, and a hacksaw is used to cut a slot in the hub. The hub is then
turned around one third of a revolution, and another slot cut, using the same saw-marks in
the boards, so that the angle of the second slot will be the same as the first one. The third
slot is cut in the same manner. The three blades that were cut out are now fastened in these
slots and held there by solder. This completes the propeller and it is now ready to be fastened
upon the propeller-shaft.

Let us consider the general method of putting the propeller-shaft in place. The young boat-builder
will readily understand that it would be very impractical merely to bore a hole in the hull
of the boat to put the propeller-shaft through. In this way water would surely leak into the
hull and the boat would sink in a short time. Some method must be evolved to keep the water
out of the hull, and yet allow the propeller-shaft to revolve freely.

The propeller-shaft is arranged within a brass tube, as shown at Fig. 38. The brass tube should
be about 1/8 inch larger in diameter than the propeller-shaft. A little brass bushing must
also be arranged at each end, as shown. When the propeller-shaft is mounted in place in the
tube, there will be a space between it and the tube. Before the propeller-shaft is put in place
it is well smeared with vaseline, and when it is placed in the tube the space between the shaft
and the tube will be completely filled with it. This will prevent water from entering. Owing
to the fact that vaseline is a soft, greasy substance, it will not prevent the rotation of
the propeller-shaft. The brass tube is placed through a hole bored in the hull of the boat.
The hole should be a trifle smaller than the diameter of the brass tube, so that the tube can
be forced into the hole.

One of the simplest methods of propelling a boat is by means of rubber bands. Such a boat is
shown in Fig. 39. This is a small wooden hull fitted with a two-blade propeller. The propeller
is shown at Fig. 40. It is cut in a single piece and held to the propeller-shaft merely by
a drop of solder since there will not be much strain upon it owing to the low power of the
rubber-band motor. The opposite end of the propeller-shaft is bent into a hook, and the rubber
bands run from this to another hook placed at the bow of the boat. The rubber bands may be
similar to those employed by model airplane builders. The motor, of course, must be wound up
by turning the propeller around until the bands become twisted into little knots, as shown
at Fig. 39. Boats driven by rubber bands cannot be very large unless a great number of rubber
bands are used. Even then the power is short-lived. However, building a few small boats driven
by rubber-band motors will do much to teach the young boat-builder some valuable lessons in
boat construction.

Probably the best method of propelling model boats is the electric method. By building a boat
large enough to accommodate two dry batteries or a small storage battery and a little power
motor, a very reliable method of propulsion is made possible. The boat must have sufficient
displacement to accommodate the weight of the dry-cells and storage battery. A boat two feet
long, with a beam of 4-1/2 inches, is large enough to accommodate one dry-cell and a small
motor, providing the fittings of the boat are not too heavy.

A suitable power motor for small boats, which will run with either one or two dry-cells, is
shown in Fig. 41. The connections for the motor are given clearly in Fig. 42, and a suitable
switch to control the motor is shown at Fig. 43.

Owing to its greater power, the storage battery is to be preferred. Dry-cells are extremely
heavy and occupy considerable space. They are also costly, since they do not last long and
cannot be worked too hard unless they polarize.

A very suitable method of mounting an electric motor is illustrated in Figs. 44 and 45. It
will be noticed that the motor is inverted. A small pinion or gear is mounted upon the armature-shaft
of the motor. A larger gear (about three times the diameter of the small one) is placed upon
the propeller-shaft. This gives a speed reduction of three to one. It will be seen that the
propeller-tube is strapped within a strip of brass to a small cross-piece nailed to the bottom
board of the hull. The hull is of the built-up type, and the other three boards that go to
make it up are not shown. When the three boards are glued in place, a brass strip is run across
the top board and the base of the motor is screwed to this. This holds the motor rigidly in
place so that it will not move when the power is turned on. The brass strip used should have
sufficient thickness to hold the motor rigid. It will also be seen that the motor is tipped
slightly so that it will come in line with the propeller-shaft.

It is not always possible to obtain small gears. For this reason the model boat builder may
find it necessary to use a different method of fastening the propeller-shaft to the motor.
A very good method of doing this is shown in Fig. 46. Here a coiled wire spring is used. This
is wound to shape on a rod, and a drop of solder holds it to the propeller and motor shafts.
In the method of propulsion shown in Fig. 44 the armature-shaft of the motor must be perfectly
in line with the propeller-shaft, or the gears will bind and unsatisfactory operation of the
motor will result. With the little spring the motor will not have to be mounted exactly in
line with the shaft, and it will also be possible to mount the motor standing up. Of course,
if the motor is mounted in this way it will be necessary to make the propeller-shaft longer,
as is shown in Fig. 47.

Still another method of driving the propeller is illustrated in Fig. 48. This method is so
simple that the author feels explanation to be unnecessary.

Clockwork can often be employed for propulsion purposes, but this method is not very satisfactory.
It is also very difficult to obtain suitable clockworks to install in a boat. Oftentimes it
will be possible to salvage the works of an old alarm-clock, providing the main-spring is intact.
It is a very easy matter to mount the clock-spring and connect it to the propeller. Any one
of the aforementioned methods can be employed.

Steam propulsion has its advantages; but, on the other hand, the writer is not inclined to
recommend it as strongly as the electric method for reliability. Of course, steam is a more
powerful agency in the propulsion of small boats and thereby greater speed is attainable by
its use.

