Is it any wonder that they brought their last letters to him before they went into the trenches?
Is it any wonder that they asked him for a little prayer service one night before they went
into the trenches? Is it any wonder that they love him and swear by him?

Is it any wonder that when one of them was asked how they liked their secretary, the boy said:
"Great!  He's a man!"

Is it any wonder that when another boy was asked if their secretary was very religious, responded
in his own language: "Yes, he's as religious as hell, but he's a good guy anyhow!"

That kind of service will win anybody, and that is exactly the kind of service that the boys
of the American army, your boys, are getting all over France from big, heroic, unprejudiced,
fatherly, brotherly men, who are willing to die for their boys as well as to live for them
and with them down where the shells are thickest and the dangers are constant.

More than a hundred Y. M. C. A. men gassed and wounded to date, and more than six killed. 
One friend of mine stepped down into his cellar one morning, got a full breath of gas, and
was dead in two minutes. There had been a gas-raid the day before, and the gas had remained
in the cellar.  Another I know stayed in his hut and served his men even though six shell fragments
came through the hut while he was doing it. Another I know lived in a dugout for three months,
under shell fire every day.  One day a shell took off the end of the old château in which he
was serving the men.  His dugout was in the cellar.  But he did not leave.  Another day another
shell took off the other end of the château, but he did not leave.  He had no other place to
go, and the boys couldn't leave, so why should he go just because he could leave if he wished?
That was the way he looked at it.  One man whom I interviewed in Paris, a Baptist clergyman,
crawled four hundred yards at the Château-Thierry battle with a young lieutenant, dragging
a litter with them across a stubble wheat-field under a rain of machine-gun bullets and shells,
in plain view of the Germans, and rescued a wounded colonel.  When they brought him back they
had to crawl the four hundred yards again, pushing the litter before them inch by inch.  It
took them two hours to get across that field.  A piece of shrapnel went through the secretary's
shoulder.  He is nearly sixty years of age, but he did not stop when a service called him that
meant the almost certain loss of his own life.

I know another secretary, Doctor Dan Poling, a clergyman, and Pest, a physical director, who
carried a wounded German, who had two legs broken, through a barrage of German shells across
a field to safety.

But all the Silhouettes of Service are not in the front lines.

There are two divisions to the army.  They used to be "The Zone of Advance" and "The Zone of
the Rear."  Now they call the second division "The Services of Supplies."  All the men who
are not in the actual fighting belong to "The Services of Supplies."

"How many men does it take to keep one pilot in the machine flying out over those waters to
guard the transports in?" I asked the young ensign in charge of a seaplane station.

"Twenty-eight," he replied.  "There are twenty-eight men back of every machine and every pilot."

The service that these men render, although it is hard for them to see it, is just as real
and just as heroic as the service of those in the front lines.  The boys in "The Services of
Supplies" are eager to get up front.  I have had the joy of making them see in their huts and
camps that their service is supremely important.

One cannot tell what service is more important.

When I landed at Newport News, the first sound that I heard was the machine-gun hammering of
thousands of riveters building ships.  I know how vital that service is to the boys "over there."
They could not live without the ships.

Then I came from Newport News to Washington, on my way home, and we entered that great city
by night.  The Capitol dome was flooded with light.  As I looked at it I said to myself: "To-day
from this city emanates the light of the world.  The eyes of the whole of humanity are turned
toward this city.  That lighted dome is symbol of all this."

As I looked out of the train window as we entered Washington from Richmond, Virginia, I thought:
"Surely not the shipbuilding but the ideals that go out from the Capitol are the most important
'Services of Supplies.'"

The next morning I was in Pittsburgh.  As my train pulled into that great city, all along the
Ohio River I saw great armies of laboring men going and coming from work.  As one tide of humanity
flowed out of the mills across the bridges, another flowed in, and I said: "Surely not the
shipbuilders, nor the ideal-makers at Washington, but this great army of laboring men in America
forms the most important part of 'The Services of Supplies'!"

Then I came to New York.  In turn I spoke before two significant groups of men and women. 
One was a group of women meeting each day to make Red Cross bandages, and knowing the scarcity
of such in France, and knowing how at times nurses have had to tear up their skirts to bandage
wounds of dying boys, I said: "Surely this is it!"

Then I spoke before the artists of New York, with Mr. Charles Dana Gibson heading them, and
as I had seen their stirring posters everywhere arousing the nation to action, and knew what
an important part the artists and writers in France had played in "The Services of Supplies,"
I said: "Surely these are the most important!"

But I have found at last that none of these are the most important of all.  There is another
section to "The Services of Supplies," and that is more important than the mechanic behind
the pilot, more important than the man who assembles the motor trucks and the ambulances in
France, more important than the ship-builders, more important than the lawmakers themselves,
more important even than the President, more important than that great army of laborers which
I saw in Pittsburgh, more important than the artists and the Red Cross workers, and that supreme
and important part of the great "Services of Supplies" is the father and mother, the wife,
the child, the home, the church, the great mass of the common thinking, feeling, suffering,
praying, hoping people of America.  If these fail, all fails.  If these lose faith and courage
and hope, all lose faith and courage and hope.  If these grow faint-hearted, all before them
lose heart.  These are they who furnish the real sinews of war.  These are they who must furnish
the morale, the love, the letters, the prayers, the support to both government and soldier.
Yes, the common folks over here at home, I have seen clearly, are the most important part of
the great division of the army that we call "The Services of Supplies."  May we never fail
the boy in France.

These are the Silhouettes of Service.

VIII

SILHOUETTES OF SORROW

I wondered at his hold on the hearts of the boys in a certain hospital in France.  It was a
strange thing.  I went through the hospital with him and it seemed to me, judging by the conversation
with the boys in the hundreds of cots, that he had just done something for a boy, or he was
just in the process of doing something, or he was just about to do something.

They called him "daddy."

All day long I wondered at his secret, for he was so unlike any man I had seen in France in
the way he had won the hearts of the boys.  I was curious to know.  Something in his eyes made
me think of Lincoln.  They had a look like Lincoln in their depths.

That night when I was about to leave I blunderingly stumbled on his secret.  About the only
ornament in his bare pine room in the hut was a picture on the desk.  I seized on it immediately,
for next to a sweet-faced baby about the finest thing on earth to look at is a boy between
five and twelve.  And here were two, dressed in plaid suits, with white collars, tousled hair,
clean, fine American boys.

I exclaimed as I picked the picture up:

"What a fine pair of lads!"

Then I knew that I had, unwittingly, stumbled into his secret, for a look of infinite pain
swept over his face.

"They are both dead.  Last August wife called me on the phone and said that something awful
had happened to the boys.  They were all we had, and I hurried home.

"They had gone out on a Boy Scout picnic.  The older had gone in swimming in the river and
had gotten beyond his depth.  The younger went in after him and both were drowned."

"I'm sorry I brought it back," I said humbly.

He didn't notice what I said, but went on.

"Wife and I were broken-hearted.  There didn't seem much to live for. We had lost all.  Then
came this Y. M. C. A. work, and we thought that we would like to come over here and do for
all the boys in the army what we could not do for our own.  And now wife and I are here, and
every time I do something for a wounded boy in this hospital, I feel as if I were serving my
own dear lads."

"And you are," I said.  "And if the mothers and fathers of America know that men and women
of your type are here looking after their lads it will give them a new sense of comfort and
you will be serving them also."

"And my wife," he added.  "You know the boys up at ---- call her 'The Woman with the Sandwiches
and Sympathy.'  She got her name because one night a drunken soldier staggered into the hut
and asked for her.  He didn't remember her name, but she had darned his socks, she had written
letters for him, she had mothered him, she had tried to help him.  They wanted to put the poor
lad out, but he insisted upon seeing my wife. Finally, in desperation, seeing that he couldn't
think of her name, he said, 'Wan' see that woman wif sandwiches and sympathy,' and after that
the name stuck."

And as we knelt in prayer together there in the hut and I arose to clasp his hand in sympathy,
I knew that through service there in France, through service to your sons, mothers and fathers
of America, this brave man, as well as his wife, were solacing their grief.  They were conquering
sorrow in service, thank God.

Yes, there are Silhouettes of Sorrow, but these silhouettes always have back of them the gold
of a new dawn of hope.  They are black silhouettes, but they have a glorious background of
sunrise and hope. I tell of no sorrows here that are not triumphant sorrows, such as will hearten
the whole world to bear its sorrow well when it comes, pray God.

Up at ---- on the beautiful Loire is my friend the secretary.  It is a humble position, and
there are not many soldiers there, but he is serving and brothering, tenderly and faithfully,
the few that are there.  No one would ever think of him as a hero, but I do.  He, too, is a
hero who is conquering sorrow in service.

His only daughter had been accepted for Y. M. C. A. service in France. She was all he had.
He was a minister at home, and had given up his church for the duration of the war.  Both were
looking forward with keen anticipation to her coming to France.  Then came the cable of her death.

I was there, the morning it arrived, to preach for him.  He said no word to me about the blow.
We went on with the service as usual.  I noticed that no hymns had been selected, and that
things were not in very good order for the service.  I was a little annoyed at this, but I
am thankful with all my heart this day that I said nothing.  I had decided in my heart that
he was not a very efficient religious director until I heard the next day.

