First of all, let us resume our acquaintance with Mr. Stevens. To effect this, we must pay
that gentleman a visit at his luxurious mansion in Fifth Avenue, the most fashionable street
of New York--the place where the upper ten thousand of that vast, bustling city most do congregate.
As he is an old acquaintance (we won't say friend), we will disregard ceremony, and walk boldly
into the library where that gentleman is sitting.

He is changed--yes, sadly changed. Time has been hard at work with him, and, dissatisfied with
what his unaided agency could produce, has called in conscience to his aid, and their united
efforts have left their marks upon him. He looks old--aye, very old. The bald spot on his head
has extended its limits until there is only a fringe of thin white hair above the ears. There
are deep wrinkles upon his forehead; and the eyes, half obscured by the bushy grey eyebrows,
are bloodshot and sunken; the jaws hollow and spectral, and his lower lip drooping and flaccid.
He lifts his hand to pour out another glass of liquor from the decanter at his side, when his
daughter lays her hand upon it, and looks appealingly in his face.

She has grown to be a tall, elegant woman, slightly thin, and with a careworn and fatigued
expression of countenance. There is, however, the same sweetness in her clear blue eyes, and
as she moves her head, her fair flaxen curls float about her face as dreamily and deliciously
as ever they did of yore. She is still in black, wearing mourning for her mother, who not many
months before had been laid in a quiet nook on the estate at Savanah.

"Pray, papa, don't drink any more," said she, persuasively--"it makes you nervous, and will
bring on one of those frightful attacks again."

"Let me alone," he remonstrated harshly--"let me alone, and take your hand off the glass; the
doctor has forbidden laudanum, so I will have brandy instead--take off your hand and let me
drink, I say."

Lizzie still kept her hand upon the decanter, and continued gently: "No, no, dear pa--you promised
me you would only drink two glasses, and you have already taken three--it is exceedingly injurious.
The doctor insisted upon it that you should decrease the quantity--and you are adding to it
instead."

"Devil take the doctor!" exclaimed he roughly, endeavouring to disengage her hold--"give me
the liquor, I say."

His daughter did not appear the least alarmed at this violence of manner, nor suffer her grasp
upon the neck of the decanter to be relaxed; but all the while spoke soothing words to the
angry old man, and endeavoured to persuade him to relinquish his intention of drinking any more.

"You don't respect your old father," he cried, in a whining tone--"you take advantage of my
helplessness, all of you--you ill-treat me and deny me the very comforts of life! I'll tell--I'll
tell the doctor," he continued, as his voice subsided into an almost inaudible tone, and he
sank back into the chair in a state of semi-stupor.

Removing the liquor from his reach, his daughter rang the bell, and then walked towards the
door of the room.

"Who procured that liquor for my father?" she asked of the servant who entered.

"I did, miss," answered the man, hesitatingly.

"Let this be the last time you do such a thing," she rejoined, eyeing him sternly, "unless
you wish to be discharged. I thought you all fully understood that on no consideration was
my father to have liquor, unless by the physician's or my order--it aggravates his disease
and neutralizes all the doctor's efforts--and, unless you wish to be immediately discharged,
never repeat the same offence. Now, procure some assistance--it is time my father was prepared
for bed."

The man bowed and left the apartment; but soon returned, saying there was a person in the hall
who had forced his way into the house, and who positively refused to stir until he saw Mr. Stevens.

"He has been here two or three times," added the man, "and he is very rough and impudent."

"This is most singular conduct," exclaimed Miss Stevens. "Did he give his name?"

"Yes, miss; he calls himself McCloskey."

At the utterance of this well-known name, Mr. Stevens raised his head, and stared at the speaker
with a look of stupid fright, and inquired, "Who here--what name is that?--speak louder--what
name?"

"McCloskey," answered the man, in a louder tone.

"What! he--he!" cried Mr. Stevens, with a terrified look. "Where--where is he?" he continued,
endeavouring to rise--"where is he?"

"Stop, pa," interposed his daughter, alarmed at his appearance and manner. "Do stop--let me
go," "No--no!" said the old man wildly, seizing her by the dress to detain her--"you must not
go--that would never do! He might tell her," he muttered to himself--"No, no--I'll go!"--and
thus speaking, he made another ineffectual attempt to reach the door.

"Dear father! do let me go!" she repeated, imploringly. "You are incapable of seeing any one--let
me inquire what he wants!" she added, endeavouring to loose his hold upon her dress.

"No--you shall not!" he replied, clutching her dress still tighter, and endeavouring to draw
her towards him.

"Oh, father!" she asked distractedly, "what can this mean? Here," said she, addressing the
servant, who stood gazing in silent wonder on this singular scene, "help my father into his
chair again, and then tell this strange man to wait awhile."

The exhausted man, having been placed in his chair, motioned to his daughter to close the door
behind the servant, who had just retired.

"He wants money," said he, in a whisper--"he wants money! He'll make beggars of us all--and
yet I'll have to give him some. Quick! give me my cheque-book--let me give him something before
he has a chance to talk to any one--quick! quick!"

The distracted girl wrung her hands with grief at what she imagined was a return of her father's
malady, and exclaimed, "Oh! if George only would remain at home--it is too much for me to have
the care of father whilst he is in such a state." Then pretending to be in search of the cheque-book,
she turned over the pamphlets and papers upon his desk, that she might gain time, and think
how it was best to proceed.

Whilst she was thus hesitating, the door of the room was suddenly opened, and a shabbily dressed
man, bearing a strong odour of rum about him, forced his way into the apartment, saying, "I
will see him. D----n it, I don't care haporth how sick he is--let me go, or by the powers I'll
murther some of yes." The old man's face was almost blanched with terror when he heard the
voice and saw the abrupt entry of the intruder. He sprang from the chair with a great effort,
and then, unable to sustain himself, sunk fainting on the floor.

"Oh, you have killed my father--you have killed my father! Who are you, and what do you want,
that you dare thrust yourself upon him in this manner?" said she, stooping to assist in raising
him; "cannot you see he is entirely unfit for any business?"

Mr. Stevens was replaced in his chair, and water thrown in his face to facilitate his recovery.

Meanwhile, McCloskey had poured himself out a glass of brandy and water, which he stood sipping
as coolly as if everything in the apartment was in a state of the most perfect composure. The
singular terror of her father, and the boldness and assurance of the intruder, were to Miss
Stevens something inexplicable--she stood looking from one to the other, as though seeking
an explanation, and on observing symptoms of a return to consciousness on the part of her parent,
she turned to McCloskey, and said, appealingly: "You see how your presence has agitated my
father. Pray let me conjure you--go. Be your errand what it may, I promise you it shall have
the earliest attention. Or," said she, "tell me what it is; perhaps I can see to it--I attend
a great deal to father's business. Pray tell me!"

"No, no!" exclaimed the old man, who had caught the last few words of his daughter. "No, no--not
a syllable! Here, I'm well--I'm well enough. I'll attend to you. There, there--that will do,"
he continued, addressing the servant; "leave the room. And you," he added, turning to his daughter,
"do you go too. I am much better now, and can talk to him. Go! go!" he cried, impatiently,
as he saw evidences of a disposition to linger, on her part; "if I want you I'll ring. Go!--this
person won't stay long."

"Not if I get what I came for, miss," said McCloskey, insolently; "otherwise, there is no knowing
how long I may stay." With a look of apprehension, Lizzie quitted the room, and the murderer
and his accomplice were alone together.

Mr. Stevens reached across the table, drew the liquor towards him, and recklessly pouring out
a large quantity, drained the glass to the bottom--this seemed to nerve him up and give him
courage, for he turned to McCloskey and said, with a much bolder air than he had yet shown
in addressing him, "So, you're back again, villain! are you? I thought and hoped you were dead;"
and he leaned back in his chair and closed his eyes as if to shut out some horrid spectre.

"I've been divilish near it, squire, but Providence has preserved me, ye see--jist to be a
comfort to ye in yer old age. I've been shipwrecked, blown up in steamboats, and I've had favers
and choleray and the divil alone knows what--but I've been marcifully presarved to ye, and
hope ye'll see a good dale of me this many years to come."

Mr. Stevens glared at him fiercely for a few seconds, and then rejoined, "You promised me solemnly,
five years ago, that you would never trouble me again, and I gave you money enough to have
kept you in comfort--ay, luxury--for the remainder of your life. Where is it all now?"

"That's more than I can tell you, squire. I only know how it comes. I don't trouble myself
how it goes--that's your look out. If ye are anxious on that score you'd better hire a bookkeeper
for me--he shall send yer honour a quarterly account, and then it won't come on ye so sudden
when it's all out another time."

"Insolent!" muttered Mr. Stevens.

McCloskey gave Mr. Stevens an impudent look, but beyond that took no farther notice of his
remark, but proceeded with the utmost coolness to pour out another glass of brandy--after which
he drew his chair closer to the grate, and placed his dirty feet upon the mantelpiece in close
proximity to an alabaster clock.

"You make yourself very much at home," said Stevens, indignantly.

"Why shouldn't I?" answered his tormentor, in a tone of the most perfect good humour. "Why
shouldn't I--in the house of an ould acquaintance and particular friend--just the place to
feel at home, eh, Stevens?" then folding his arms and tilting back his chair, he asked, coolly:
"You haven't a cigar, have ye?"

"No," replied Stevens, surlily; "and if I had, you should not have it. Your insolence is unbearable;
you appear," continued he, with some show of dignity, "to have forgotten who I am, and who
you are."

"Ye're mistaken there, squire. Divil a bit have I. I'm McCloskey, and you are Slippery George--an
animal that's known over the 'varsal world as a Philadelphia lawyer--a man that's chated his
hundreds, and if he lives long enough, he'll chate as many more, savin' his friend Mr. McCloskey,
and him he'll not be afther chating, because he won't be able to get a chance, although he'd
like to if he could--divil a doubt of that."

