[725] If the deviations become greater, they might even become detrimental. The flowers of
the St. Johnswort, or Hypericum perforatum, usually have five petals, but the number varies
from three to eight or more. Bees could hardly be misled by such deviations. The carpels of
buttercups and columbines, the cells in the capsules of cotton and many other plants are variable
in number. The number of seeds is thereby regulated in accordance with the available nourishment,
but whether any other useful purpose is served, remains an open question. Variations in the
honey-guides or in the pattern of color-designs might easily become injurious by deceiving
insects, and such instances as the great variability of the spots on the corolla of some cultivated
species of monkey-flowers, for instance, the Mimulus quinquevulnerus, could hardly be expected
to occur in wild plants. For here the dark brown spots vary between nearly complete deficiency
up to such predominancy as almost to hide the pale yellow ground-color.

After this hasty survey of the causes of fluctuating variability, we now come to a discussion
of Quetelet's law. It asserts that the deviations from the average obey the law of probability.
They behave as if they were dependent on chance only.

Everyone knows that the law of Quetelet can [726] be demonstrated the most readily by placing
a sufficient number of adult men in a row, arranging them according to their size. The line
passing over their heads proves to be identical with that given by the law of probability.
Quite in the same way, stems and branches, leaves and petals and even fruits can be arranged,
and they will in the main exhibit the same line of variability. Such groups are very striking,
and at the first glance show that the large majority of the specimens deviate from the mean
only to a very small extent. Wider deviations are far more rare, and their number lessens,
the greater the deviation, as is shown by the curvature of the line. It is almost straight
and horizontal in the middle portion, while at the ends it rapidly declines, going sharply
downward at one extreme and upward at the other.

It is obvious however, that in these groups the leaves and other organs could conveniently
be replaced by simple lines, indicating their size. The result would be quite the same, and
the lines could be placed at arbitrary, but equal distances. Or the sizes could be expressed
by figures, the compliance of which with the general law could be demonstrated by simple methods
of calculation. In this manner the variability of different organs can easily be compared.
Another method of demonstration consists in [727] grouping the deviations into previously fixed
divisions. For this purpose the variations are measured by standard units, and all the instances
that fall between two limits are considered to constitute one group. Seeds and small fruits,
berries and many other organs may conveniently be dealt with in this way. As an example we
take ordinary beans and select them according to their size. This can be done in different
ways. On a small piece of board a long wedge-shaped slit is made, into which seeds are pushed
as far as possible. The margin of the wedge is calibrated in such a manner that the figures
indicate the width of the wedge at the corresponding place. By this device the figure up to
which a bean is pushed at once shows its length. Fractions of millimeters are neglected, and
the beans, after having been measured, are thrown into cylindrical glasses of the same width,
each glass receiving only beans of equal length. It is clear that by this method the height
to which beans fill the glasses is approximately a measure of their number. If now the glasses
are put in a row in the proper sequence, they at once exhibit the shape of a line which corresponds
to the law of chance. In this case however, the line is drawn in a different manner from the
first. It is to be pointed out that the glasses may be replaced by lines indicating [728] the
height of their contents, and that, in order to reach a more easy and correct statement, the
length of the lines may simply be made proportionate to the number of the beans in each glass.
If such lines are erected on a common base and at equal distances, the line which unites their
upper ends will be the expression of the fluctuating variability of the character under discussion.

The same inquiry may be made with other seeds, with fruits, or other organs. It is quite superfluous
to arrange the objects themselves, and it is sufficient to arrange the figures indicating their
value. In order to do this a basal line is divided into equal parts, the demarcations corresponding
to the standard-units chosen for the test. The observed values are then written above this
line, each finding its place between the two demarcations, which include its value. It is very
interesting and stimulating to construct such a group. The first figures may fall here and
there, but very soon the vertical rows on the middle part of the basal line begin to increase.
Sometimes ten or twenty measurements will suffice to make the line of chance appear, but often
indentations will remain. With the increasing number of the observations the irregularities
gradually [729] disappear, and the line becomes smoother and more uniformly curved.

This method of arranging the figures directly on a basal line is very convenient, whenever
observations are made in the field or garden. Very few instances need be recorded to obtain
an appreciation of the mean value, and to show what may be expected from a continuance of the
test. The method is so simple and so striking, and so wholly independent of any mathematical
development that it should be applied in all cases in which it is desired to ascertain the
average value of any organ, and the measure of the attendant deviations.

I cite an instance, secured by counting the ray-florets on the flower-heads of the corn-marigold
or Chrysanthemum segetum. It was that, by which I was enabled to select the plant, which afterwards
showed the first signs of a double head. I noted them in this way;

       47
       47   52
       41   54   68
       44   50   62   75
  36   45   58   65   72      99

Of course the figures might be replaced in this work by equidistant dots or by lines, but experience
teaches that the chance of making mistakes is noticeably lessened by writing down [730] the
figures themselves. Whenever decimals are made use of it is obviously the best plan to keep
the figures themselves. For afterwards it often becomes necessary to arrange them according
to a somewhat different standard.

Uniting the heads of the vertical rows of figures by a line, the form corresponding to Quetelet's
law is easily seen. In the main it is always the same as the line shown by the measurements
of beans and seeds. It proves a dense crowding of the single instances around the average,
and on both sides of the mass of the observations, a few wide deviations. These become more
rare in proportion to the amount of their divergency. On both sides of the average the line
begins by falling very rapidly, but then bends slowly so as to assume a nearly horizontal direction.
It reaches the basal line only beyond the extreme instances.

It is quite evident that all qualities, which can be expressed by figures, may be treated in
this way. First, of all the organs occurring in varying numbers, as for instance the ray-florets
of composites, the rays of umbels, the blades of pinnate and palmate leaves, the numbers of
veins, etc., are easily shown to comply with the same general rule. Likewise the amount of
chemical substances can be expressed in percentage numbers, as is done on a large [731] scale
with sugar in beets and sugar-cane, with starch in potatoes and in other instances. These figures
are also found to follow the same law.

All qualities which are seen to increase and to decrease may be dealt with in the same manner,
if a standard unit for their measurement can be fixed. Even the colors of flowers may not escape
our inquiry.

If we now compare the lines, compiled from the most divergent cases, they will be found to
exhibit the same features in the main. Ordinarily the curve is symmetrical, the line sloping
down on both sides after the same manner. But it is not at all rare that the inclination is
steep on one side and gradual on the other. This is noticeably the case if the observations
relate to numbers, the average of which is near zero. Here of course the allowance for variation
is only small on one side, while it may increase with out distinct limits on the alternate
slope. So it is for instance with the numbers of ray-florets in the example given on p. 729.
Such divergent cases, however, are to be considered as exceptions to the rule, due to some
unknown cause.

Heretofore we have discussed the empirical side of the problem only. For the purpose of experimental
study of questions of heredity this is ordinarily quite sufficient. The inquiry [732] into
the phenomenon of regression, or of the relation of the degree of deviation of the progeny
to that of their parents, and the selection of extreme instances for multiplication are obviously
independent of mathematical considerations. On the other hand an important inquiry lies in
the statistical treatment of these phenomena, and such treatment requires the use of mathematical
methods.

Statistics however, are not included in the object of these lectures, and therefore I shall
refrain from an explanation of the method of their preparation and limit myself to a general
comparison of the observed lines with the law of chance. Before going into the details, it
should be repeated once more that the empirical result is quite the same for individual and
for partial fluctuations. As a rule, the latter occur in far greater number, and are thus more
easily investigated, but individual or personal averages have also been studied.

Newton discovered that the law of chance can be expressed by very simple mathematical calculations.
Without going into details, we may at once state that these calculations are based upon his
binomium. If the form (a + b) is calculated for some value of the exponent, and if the values
of the coefficients after development are alone considered, they yield the basis [733] for
the construction of what is called the line or curve of probability. For this construction
the coefficients are used as ordinates, the length of which is to be made proportionate to
their value. If this is done, and the ordinates are arranged at equal distances, the line which
unites their summits is the desired curve. At first glance it exhibits a form quite analogous
to the curves of fluctuating variability, obtained by the measurements of beans and in other
instances. Both lines are symmetrical and slope rapidly down in the region of the average,
while with increasing distance they gradually lose their steep inclination, becoming nearly
parallel to the base at their termination.

This similarity between such empirical and theoretical lines is in itself an empirical fact.
The causes of chance are assumed to be innumerable, and the whole calculation is based on this
assumption. The causes of the fluctuations of biological phenomena have not as yet been critically
examined to such an extent as to allow of definite conceptions. The term nourishment manifestly
includes quite a number of separate factors, as light, space, temperature, moisture, the physical
and chemical conditions of the soil and the changes of the weather. Without doubt the single
factors are very numerous, but whether they are numerous enough to be treated [734] as innumerable,
and thereby to explain the laws of fluctuations, remains uncertain. Of course the easiest way
is to assume that they combine in the same manner as the causes of chance, and that this is
the ground of the similarity of the curves. On the other hand, it is manifestly of the highest
importance to inquire into the part the several factors play in the determination of the curves.
It is not at all improbable that some of them have a larger influence on individual, and others
on partial, fluctuations. If this were the case, their importance with respect to questions
of heredity might be widely different. In the present state of our knowledge the fluctuation-curves
do not contribute in any large measure to an elucidation of the causes. Where these are obvious,
they are so without statistics, exactly as they were, previous to Quetelet's discovery.

In behalf of a large number of questions concerning heredity and selection, it is very desirable
to have a somewhat closer knowledge of these curves. Therefore I shall try to point out their
more essential features, as far as this can be done without mathematical calculations.

At a first glance three points strike us, the average or the summit of the curve, and the extremes.
If the general shape is once denoted by the results of observations or by the coefficients
[735] of the binomium, all further details seem to depend upon them. In respect to the average
this is no doubt the case; it is an empirical value without need of any further discussion.
The more the number of the observations increases, the more assured and the more correct is
this mean value, but generally it is the same for smaller and for larger groups of observations.

This however, is not the case with the extremes. It is quite evident that small groups have
a chance of containing neither of them. The more the number of the observations increases,
the larger is the chance of extremes. As a rule, and excluding exceptional cases, the extreme
deviations will increase in proportion to the number of cases examined. In a hundred thousand
beans the smallest one and the largest one may be expected to differ more widely from one another
than in a few hundred beans of the same sample. Hence the conclusion that extremes are not
a safe criterion for the discussion of the curves, and not at all adequate for calculations,
which must be based upon more definite values.

A real standard is afforded by the steepness of the slope. This may be unequal on the two sides
of one curve, and likewise it may differ for different cases. This steepness is usually measured
by means of a point on the half curve and [736 ] for this purpose a point is chosen which lies
exactly half way between the average and the extreme. Not however half way with respect to
the amplitude of the extreme deviation, for on this ground it would partake of the uncertainty
of the extreme itself. It is the point on the curve which is surpassed by half the number,
and not reached by the other half of the number of the observations included in the half of
the curve. This point corresponds to the important value called the probable error, and was
designated by Galton as the quartile. For it is evident that the average and the two quartiles
divide the whole of the observations into four equal parts.

Choosing the quartiles as the basis for calculations we are independent of all the secondary
causes of error, which necessarily are inherent in the extremes. At a casual examination, or
for demonstrative purposes, the extremes may be prominent, but for all further considerations
the quartiles are the real values upon which to rest calculations.

Moreover if the agreement with the law of probability is once conceded, the whole curve is
defined by the average and the quartiles, and the result of hundreds of measurements or countings
may be summed up in three, or, in [737] the case of symmetrical curves, perhaps in two figures.

Also in comparing different curves with one another, the quartiles are of great importance.
Whenever an empirical fluctuation-curve is to be compared with the theoretical form, or when
two or more cases of variability are to be considered under one head, the lines are to be drawn
on the same base. It is manifest that the averages must be brought upon the same ordinate,
but as to the steepness of the line, much depends on the manner of plotting. Here we must remember
that the mutual distance of the ordinates has been a wholly arbitrary one in all our previous
considerations. And so it is, as long as only one curve is considered at a time. But as soon
as two are to be compared, it is obvious that free choice is no longer allowed. The comparison
must be made on a common basis, and to this effect the quartiles must be brought together.
They are to lie on the same ordinates. If this is done, each division of the base corresponds
to the same proportionate number of individuals, and a complete comparison is made possible.

On the ground of such a comparison we may thus assert that, fluctuations, however different
the organs or qualities observed, are the same whenever their curves are seen to overlap one
[738] another. Furthermore, whenever an empirical curve agrees in this manner with the theoretical
one, the fluctuation complies with Quetelet's law, and may be ascribed to quite ordinary and
universal causes. But if it seems to diverge from this line, the cause of this divergence should
be inquired into.

Such abnormal curves occur from time to time, but are rare. Unsymmetrical instances have already
been alluded to, and seem to be quite frequent. Another deviation from the rule is the presence
of more than one summit. This case falls under two headings. If the ray florets of a composite
are counted, and the figures brought into a curve, a prominent summit usually corresponds to
the average. But next to this, and on both sides, smaller summits are to be seen. On a close
inspection these summits are observed to fall on the same ordinates, on which, in the case
of allied species, the main apex lies. The specific character of one form is thus repeated
as a secondary character on an allied species. Ludwig discovered that these secondary summits
comply with the rule discovered by Braun and Schimper, stating the relation of the subsequent
figures of the series. This series gives the terms of the disposition of leaves in general,
and of the bracts and flowers on the composite flower [739] heads in our particular case. It
is the series to which we have already alluded when dealing with the arrangement of the leaves
on the twisted teasels. It commences with 1 and 2 and each following figure is equal to the
sum of its two precedents. The most common figures are 3, 5, 8, 13, 18, 21, higher cases seldom
coming under observation. Now the secondary summits of the ray-curves of the composites are
seen to agree, as a rule, with these figures. Other instances could readily be given.

Our second heading includes those cases which exhibit two summits of equal or nearly equal
height. Such cases occur when different races are mixed, each retaining its own average and
its own curve-summit. We have already demonstrated such a case when dealing with the origin
of our double corn-chrysanthemum. The wild species culminates with 13 rays, and the grandiflorum
variety with 21. Often the latter is found to be impure, being mixed with the typical species
to a varying extent. This is not easily ascertained by a casual inspection of the cultures,
but the true condition will promptly betray itself, if curves are constructed. In this way
curves may in many instances be made use of to discover mixed races. Double curves may also
result from the investigation [740] of true double races, or ever-sporting varieties. The striped
snapdragon shows a curve of its stripes with two summits, one corresponding to the average
striped flowers, and the other to the pure red ones. Such cases may be discovered by means
of curves, but the constituents cannot be separated by culture-experiments.

A curious peculiarity is afforded by half curves. The number of petals is often seen to vary
only in one direction from what should be expected to be the mean condition. With buttercups
and brambles and many others there is only an increase above the typical five; quaternate flowers
are wanting or at least are very rare. With weigelias and many others the number of the tips
of the corolla varies downwards, going from five to four and three. Hundreds of flowers show
the typical five, and determine the summit of the curve. This drops down on one side only,
indicating unilateral variability, which in many cases is due to a very intimate connection
of a concealed secondary summit and the main one. In the case of the bulbous buttercup, Ranunculus
bulbosus, I have succeeded in isolating this secondary summit, although not in a separate variety,
but only in a form corresponding to the type of ever-sporting varieties.

[741] Recapitulating the results of this too condensed discussion, we may state that fluctuations
are linear, being limited to an increase and to a decrease of the characters. These changes
are mainly due to differences in nourishment, either of the whole organism or of its parts.
In the first case, the deviations from the mean are called individual; they are of great importance
for the hereditary characters of the offspring. In the second case the deviations are far more
universal and far more striking, but of lesser importance. They are called partial fluctuations.

All these fluctuations comply, in the main, with the law of probability, and behave as if their
causes were influenced only by chance.

[742]

LECTURE XXVI

ASEXUAL MULTIPLICATION OF EXTREMES

Fluctuating variability may be regarded from two different points of view. The multiformity
of a bed of flowers is often a desirable feature, and all means which widen the range of fluctuation
are therefore used to enhance this feature, and variability affords specimens, which surpass
the average, by yielding a better or larger product.

In the case of fruits and other cultivated forms, it is of course profitable to propagate from
the better specimens only, and if possible only from the very best. Obviously the best are
the extremes of the whole range of diverging forms, and moreover the extremes on one side of
the group. Almost always the best for practical purposes is that in which some quality is strengthened.
Cases occur however, in which it is desirable to diminish an injurious peculiarity as far as
possible, and in these instances the opposite extreme is the most profitable one.

These considerations lead us to a discussion [743] of the results of the choice of extremes,
which it may be easily seen is a matter of the greatest practical importance. This choice is
generally designated as selection, but as with most of the terms in the domain of variability,
the word selection has come to have more than one meaning. Facts have accumulated enormously
since the time of Darwin, a more thorough knowledge has brought about distinctions, and divisions
at a rapidly increasing rate, with which terminology has not kept pace. Selection includes
all kinds of choice. Darwin distinguished between natural and artificial selection, but proper
subdivisions of these conceptions are needed.

In the fourth lecture we dealt with this same question, and saw that selection must, in the
first place, make a choice between the elementary species of the same systematic form. This
selection of species or species-selection was the work of Le Couteur and Patrick Shirreff,
and is now in general use in practice where it has received the name of variety-testing. This
clear and unequivocal term however, can hardly be included under the head of natural selection.
The poetic terminology of selection by nature has already brought about many difficulties that
should be avoided in the future. On the other hand, the designation of the process as a natural
[744] selection of species complies as closely as possible with existing terminology, and does
not seem liable to any misunderstanding.

It is a selection between species. Opposed to it is the selection within the species. Manifestly
the first should precede the second, and if this sequence is not conscientiously followed it
will result in confusion. This is evident when it is considered that fluctuations can only
appear with their pure and normal type in pure strains, and that each admixture of other units
is liable to be shown by the form of the curves. More over, selection chooses single individuals,
and a single plant, if it is not a hybrid, can scarcely pertain to two different species. The
first choice therefore is apt to make the strain pure.

In contrasting selection between species with that within the species, of course elementary
species are meant, including varieties. The terms would be of no consequence if only rightly
understood. For the sake of clearness we might designate the last named process with the term
of intra-specific selection, and it is obvious that this term is applicable both to natural
and to artificial selection.

Having previously dealt with species-selection at sufficient length, we may now confine ourselves
to the consideration of the intra-specific [745] selection process. In practice it is of secondary
importance, and in nature it takes a very subordinate position. For this reason it will be
best to confine further discussions to the experience of the breeders.

Two different ways are open to make fluctuating variability profitable. Both consist in the
multiplication of the chosen extremes, and this increase may be attained in a vegetative manner,
or by the use of seeds. Asexual and sexual propagation are different in many respects, and
so they are also in the domain of variability.

In order to obtain a clear comprehension of this difference, it is necessary to start from
the distinction between individual and partial fluctuations, as given in the last lecture.
This distinction may be discussed more understandingly if the causes of the variability are
taken into consideration. We have dealt with them at some length, and are now aware that inner
conditions only, determine averages, while some fluctuation around them is allowable, as influenced
by external conditions. These outward influences act throughout life. At the very first they
impress their stamp on the whole organism, and incite a lasting change in distinct directions.
This is the period of the development of the germ within the seed; it begins with the fusion
of the sexual cells, and each of them may be influenced [746] to a noticeable degree before
this union. This is the period of the determination of individual variability. As soon as ramifications
begin, the external conditions act separately on every part, influencing some to a greater
and others to a lesser degree. Here we have the beginning of partial variability. At the outset
all parts may be affected in the same way and in the same measure, but the chances of such
an agreement, of course, rapidly diminish. This is partly due to differences in exposure, but
mainly to alterations of the sensibility of the organs themselves.

It is difficult to gain a clear conception of the contrast between individual and partial variability,
and neither is it easy to appreciate their cooperation rightly. Perhaps the best way is to
consider their activity as a gradual narrowing of possibilities. At the outset the plant may
develop its qualities in any measure, nothing being as yet fixed. Gradually however, the development
takes a definite direction, for better or for worse. Is a direction once taken, then it becomes
the average, around which the remaining possibilities are grouped. The plant or the organ goes
on in this way, until finally it reaches maturity with one of the thousands of degrees of development,
between which at the beginning it had a free choice.

[747] Putting this discussion in other terms, we find every individual and every organ in the
adult state corresponding with a single ordinate of the curve. The curve indicates the range
of possibilities, the ordinate shows the choice that has been made. Now it is clear at once
that this choice has not been made suddenly but gradually. Halfway of the development, the
choice is halfway determined, but the other half is still undefined. The first half is the
same for all the organs of the plant, and is therefore termed individual; the second differs
in the separate members, and consequently is known as partial. Which of the two halves is the
greater and which the lesser, of course depends on the cases considered.

Finally we may describe a single example, the length of the capsules of the evening-primrose.
This is highly variable, the longest reaching more than twice the length of the smallest. Many
capsules are borne on the same spike, and they are easily seen to be of unequal size. They
vary according to their position, the size diminishing in the main from the base upwards, especially
on the higher parts. Likewise the fruits of weaker lateral branches are smaller. Curves are
easily made by measuring a few hundred capsules from corresponding parts of different plants,
or even by limiting the [748] inquiry to a single individual. These curves give the partial
variability, and are found to comply with Quetelet's law.

Besides this limited study, we may compare the numerous individuals of one locality or of a
large plot of cultivated plants with one another. In doing so, we are struck with the fact
that some plants have large and others small fruits. We now limit ourselves to the main spike
of each plant, and perhaps to its lower parts, so as to avoid as far as possible the impression
made by the partial fluctuations. The differences remain, and are sufficient to furnish an
easy comparison with the general law. In order to do this, we take from each plant a definite
number of capsules and measure their average length. In some experiments I took the twenty
lowermost capsules of the main spikes. In this way one average was obtained for each plant,
and combining these into a curve, it was found that these fluctuations also came under Quetelet's
law. Thus the individual averages, and the fluctuations around each of them, follow the same
rule. The first are a measure for the whole plant, the second only for its parts. As a general
resume we can assert that, as a rule, a quality is determined in some degree during the earlier
stages of the organism, and that this determination is valid throughout its [749] life. Afterwards
only the minor points remain to be regulated. This makes it at once clear that the range of
individual and partial variability together must be wider than that of either of them, taken
alone. Partial fluctuations cannot, of course, be excluded. Thus our comparison is limited
to individual and partial variability on one side, and partial fluctuations alone on the other
side.

Intra-specific selection is thus seen to fall under two heads: a selection between the individuals,
and a choice within each of them. The first affords a wider and the latter a narrower field.

Individual variability, considered as the result of outward influences operative during extreme
youth, can be excluded in a very simple manner. Obviously it suffices to exclude extreme youth,
in other words, to exclude the use of seeds. Multiplication in a vegetative way, by grafting
and budding, by runners or roots, or by simple division of rootstocks and bulbs is the way
in which to limit variability to the partial half. This is all we may hope to attain, but experience
shows that it is a very efficient means of limitation. Partial fluctuations are generally far
smaller than individual and partial fluctuations together.

Individual variability in the vegetable kingdom [750] might be called seed-variation, as opposed
to partial or bud-fluctuation. And perhaps these terms are more apt to convey a clear conception
of the distinction than any other. The germ within the unripe seed is easily understood to
be far more sensitive to external conditions than a bud.

Multiplication of extremes by seed is thus always counteracted by individual variability, which
at once reopens all, or nearly all, the initial possibilities. Multiplication by buds is exempt
from this danger and thus leads to a high degree of uniformity. And this uniformity is in many
cases exactly what the breeder endeavors to obtain.

We will treat of this reopening of previous possibilities under the head of regression in the
next lecture. It is not at all absolute, at least not in one generation. Part of the improvement
remains, and favors the next generation. This part may be estimated approximately as being
about one-third or one-half of the improvement attained. Hence the conclusion that vegetative
multiplication gives rise to varieties which are as a rule twice or thrice as good as selected
varieties of plants propagated by seeds. Hence, likewise the inference that breeders generally
prefer vegetative multiplication of improved forms, and apply it in all possible cases. [751]
Of course the application is limited, and forage crops and the greater number of vegetables
will always necessarily be propagated by seed.

Nature ordinarily prefers the sexual way. Asexual multiplications, although very common with
perennial plants, appear not to offer important material for selection. Hence it follows that
in comparing the work of nature with that of man, the results of selection followed by vegetative
propagation should always be carefully excluded. Our large bulb-flowers and delicious fruits
have nothing in common with natural products, and do not yield a standard by which to judge
nature's work.

It is very difficult for a botanist to give a survey of what practice has attained by the asexual
multiplication of extremes. Nearly all of the large and more palatable fruits are due to such
efforts. Some flowers and garden-plants afford further instances. By far the greatest majority
of improved asexual varieties, however, are not the result of pure intra-specific selection.
They are due largely to the choice of the best existing elementary species, and to some extent
to crosses between them, or between distinct systematic species. In practice selection and
hybridization go hand in hand and it is often difficult to ascertain what part of [752] the
result is due to the one, and what to the other factor.

The scientist, on the contrary, has nothing to do with the industrial product. His task is
the analysis of the methods, in order to reach a clear appreciation of the influence of all
the competing factors. This study of the working causes leads to a better understanding of
the practical processes, and may become the basis of improvement in methods.

Starting from these considerations, we will now give some illustrative examples, and for the
first, choose one in which hybridization is almost completely excluded.

Sugar-canes have long been considered to be plants without seed. Their numerous varieties are
propagated only in a vegetative way. The stems are cut into pieces, each bearing one or two
or more nodes with their buds. An entire variety, though it may be cultivated in large districts
and even in various countries, behaves with respect to variability as a single individual.
Its individual fluctuability has been limited to the earliest period of its life, when it arose
from an unknown seed. The personal characters that have been stamped on this one seed, partly
by its descent, and partly in the development of its germ during the period of ripening, have
become the indelible characters [753] of the variety, and only the partial fluctuability, due
to the effect of later influences, can now be studied statistically.

This study has for its main object the production of sugar in the stems, and the curves, which
indicate the percentage of this important substance in different stems of the same variety,
comply with Quetelet's law. Each variety has its own average, and around this the data of the
majority of the stems are densely crowded, while deviations on both sides are rare and become
the rarer the wider they are. The "Cheribon" cane is the richest variety cultivated in Java,
and has an average of 19% sugar, while it fluctuates between 11% and 28%. "Chunnic" averages
14%, "Black Manilla" 13% and "White Manilla" 10%; their highest and lowest extremes diverge
in the same manner, being for the last named variety 1% and 15%.

This partial variability is of high practical interest, because on it a selection may be founded.
According to the conceptions described in a previous lecture, fluctuating variability is the
result of those outward factors that determine the strength of development of the plant or
the organ. The inconstancy of the degree of sensibility, combined with the ever-varying weather
conditions preclude any close proportionality, but apart from this difficulty there is, in
the [754] main, a distinct relation between organic strength and the development of single
qualities. This correlation has not escaped observation in the case of the sugar-cane, and
it is known that the best grown stocks are generally the richest in sugar. Now it is evident
that the best grown and richest stems will have the greater chance of transmitting these qualities
to the lateral-buds. This at once gives, a basis for vegetative selection, upon which it is
not necessary to choose a small number of very excellent stems, but simply to avoid the planting
of all those that are below the average. By this means the yield of the cultures has often
noticeably been enhanced.

As far as experience goes, this sort of selection, however profitable, does not conduce to
the production of improved races. Only temporary ameliorations are obtained, and the selection
must be made in the same manner every year. Moreover the improvement is very limited and does
not give any promise of further increase. In order to reach this, one has to recur to the individual
fluctuability, and therefore to seed.

Nearly half a century ago, Parris discovered, on the island of Barbados, that seeds might occasionally
be gathered from the canes. These, however, yielded only grass-like plants of no real value.
The same observation was made [755] shortly afterwards in Java and in other sugar producing
countries. In the year 1885, Soltwedel, the director of one of the experiment stations for
the culture of sugar-cane in Java, conceived the idea of making use of seedlings for the production
of improved races. This idea is a very practical one, precisely because of the possibility
of vegetative propagation. If individuals would show the same range as that of partial fluctuability,
then the choice of the extremes would at once bring the average up to the richness of the best
stocks. Once attained, this average would be fixed, without further efforts.

