This, of course, being strictly her brother's business, Stella forbore comment. She was weary
of travel, tired with the tension of eternally being shunted across distances, anxious to experience
once more that sense of restful finality which comes with a journey's end. But, in a measure
her movements were no longer dependent upon her own volition.

They walked slowly along the broad roadway which bordered the lake until they came to a branchy
maple, and here they seated themselves on the grassy turf in the shadow of the tree.

"Tell me about yourself," she said. "How do you like it here, and how are you getting on? Your
letters home were always chiefly remarkable for their brevity."

"There isn't a great lot to tell," Benton responded. "I'm just beginning to get on my feet.
A raw, untried youngster has a lot to learn and unlearn when he hits this tall timber. I've
been out here five years, and I'm just beginning to realize what I'm equal to and what I'm
not. I'm crawling over a hump now that would have been a lot easier if the governor hadn't
come to grief the way he did. He was going to put in some money this fall. But I think I'll
make it, anyway, though it will keep me digging and figuring. I have a contract for delivery
of a million feet in September and another contract that I could take if I could see my way
clear to finance the thing. I could clean up thirty thousand dollars net in two years if I
had more cash to work on. As it is, I have to go slow, or I'd go broke. I'm holding two limits
by the skin of my teeth. But I've got one good one practically for an annual pittance. If I
make delivery on my contract according to schedule it's plain sailing. That about sizes up
my prospects, Sis."

"You speak a language I don't understand," she smiled. "What does a million feet mean? And
what's a limit?"

"A limit is one square mile--six hundred and forty acres more or less--of merchantable timber
land," he explained. "We speak of timber as scaling so many board feet. A board foot is one
inch thick by twelve inches square. Sound fir timber is worth around seven dollars per thousand
board feet in the log, got out of the woods, and boomed in the water ready to tow to the mills.
The first limit I got--from the government--will scale around ten million feet. The other two
are nearly as good. But I got them from timber speculators, and it's costing me pretty high.
They're a good spec if I can hang on to them, though."

"It sounds big," she commented.

"It is big," Charlie declared, "if I could go at it right. I've been trying ever since I got
wise to this timber business to make the governor see what a chance there is in it. He was
just getting properly impressed with the possibilities when the speed bug got him. He could
have trimmed a little here and there at home and put the money to work. Ten thousand dollars
would have done the trick, given me a working outfit along with what I've got that would have
put us both on Easy Street. However, the poor old chap didn't get around to it. I suppose,
like lots of other business men, when he stopped, everything ran down. According to Lander's
figures, there won't be a thing left when all accounts are squared."

"Don't talk about it, Charlie," she begged. "It's too near, and I was through it all."

"I would have been there too," Benton said. "But, as I told you, I was out of reach of your
wire, and by the time I got it, it was all over. I couldn't have done any good, anyway. There's
no use mourning. One way and another we've all got to come to it some day."

Stella looked out over the placid, shimmering surface of Roaring Lake for a minute. Her grief
was dimming with time and distance, and she had all her own young life before her. She found
herself drifting from painful memories of her father's sudden death to a consideration of things
present and personal. She found herself wondering critically if this strange, rude land would
work as many changes in her as were patent in this bronzed and burly brother.

He had left home a slim, cocksure youngster, who had proved more than a handful for his family
before he was half through college, which educational finishing process had come to an abrupt
stop before it was complete. He had been a problem that her father and mother had discussed
in guarded tones. Sending him West had been a hopeful experiment, and in the West that abounding
spirit which manifested itself in one continual round of minor escapades appeared to have found
a natural outlet. She recalled that latterly their father had taken to speaking of Charlie
in accents of pride. He was developing the one ambition that Benton senior could thoroughly
understand and properly appreciate, the desire to get on, to grasp opportunities, to achieve
material success, to make money.

Just as her father, on the few occasions when he talked business before her, spoke in a big
way of big things as the desirable ultimate, so now Charlie spoke, with plans and outlook to
match his speech. In her father's point of view, and in Charlie's now, a man's personal life
did not seem to matter in comparison with getting on and making money. And it was with that
personal side of existence that Stella Benton was now chiefly concerned. She had never been
required to adjust herself to an existence that was wholly taken up with getting on to the
complete exclusion of everything else. Her work had been to play. She could scarce conceive
of any one entirely excluding pleasure and diversion from his or her life. She wondered if
Charlie had done so. And if not, what ameliorating circumstances, what social outlet, might
be found to offset, for her, continued existence in this isolated region of towering woods.
So far as her first impressions went, Roaring Lake appeared to be mostly frequented by lumberjacks
addicted to rude speech and strong drink.

"Are there many people living around this lake?" she inquired. "It is surely a beautiful spot.
If we had this at home, there would be a summer cottage on every hundred yards of shore."

"Be a long time before we get to that stage here," Benton returned. "And scenery in B.C. is
a drug on the market; we've got Europe backed off the map for tourist attractions, if they
only knew it. No, about the only summer home in this locality is the Abbey place at Cottonwood
Point. They come up here every summer for two or three months. Otherwise I don't know of any
lilies of the field, barring the hotel people, and they, being purely transient, don't count.
There's the Abbey-Monohan outfit with two big logging camps, my outfit, Jack Fyfe's, some hand
loggers on the east shore, and the R.A.T. at the head of the lake. That's the population--and
Roaring Lake is forty-two miles long and eight wide."

"Are there any nice girls around?" she asked.

Benton grinned widely.

"Girls?" said he. "Not so you could notice. Outside the Springs and the hatchery over the way,
there isn't a white woman on the lake except Lefty Howe's wife,--Lefty's Jack Fyfe's foreman,--and
she's fat and past forty. I told you it was a God-forsaken hole as far as society is concerned,
Stell."

"I know," she said thoughtfully. "But one can scarcely realize such a--such a social blankness,
until one actually experiences it. Anyway, I don't know but I'll appreciate utter quiet for
awhile. But what do you do with yourself when you're not working?"

"There's seldom any such time," he answered. "I tell you, Stella, I've got a big job on my
hands. I've got a definite mark to shoot at, and I'm going to make a bull's-eye in spite of
hell and high water. I have no time to play, and there's no place to play if I had. I don't
intend to muddle along making a pittance like a hand logger. I want a stake; and then it'll
be time to make a splurge in a country where a man can get a run for his money."

"If that's the case," she observed, "I'm likely to be a handicap to you, am I not?"

"Lord, no," he smiled. "I'll put you to work too, when you get rested up from your trip. You
stick with me, Sis, and you'll wear diamonds."

She laughed with him at this, and leaving the shady maple they walked up to the hotel, where
Benton proposed that they get a canoe and paddle to where Roaring River flowed out of the lake
half a mile westward, to kill the time that must elapse before the three-thirty train.

The St. Allwoods' car was rolling out to Hopyard when they came back. By the time Benton had
turned the canoe over to the boathouse man and reached the wharf, the horn of the returning
machine sounded down the road. They waited. The car came to a stop at the abutting wharf. The
driver handed two suitcases off the burdened hood of his machine. From out the tonneau clambered
a large, smooth-faced young man. He wore an expansive smile in addition to a blue serge suit,
white Panama, and polished tan Oxfords, and he bestowed a hearty greeting upon Charlie Benton.
But his smile suffered eclipse, and a faint flush rose in his round cheeks, when his eyes fell
upon Benton's sister.

CHAPTER III

HALFWAY POINT

Miss Benton's cool, impersonal manner seemed rather to heighten the young man's embarrassment.
Benton, apparently observing nothing amiss, introduced them in an offhand fashion.

"Mr. Abbey--my sister."

Mr. Abbey bowed and murmured something that passed for acknowledgment. The three turned up
the wharf toward where Sam Davis had once more got up steam. As they walked, Mr. Abbey's habitual
assurance returned, and he directed part of his genial flow of conversation to Miss Benton.
To Stella's inner amusement, however, he did not make any reference to their having been fellow
travelers for a day and a half.

Presently they were embarked and under way. Charlie fixed a seat for her on the after deck,
and went forward to steer, whither he was straightway joined by Paul Abbey. Miss Benton was
as well pleased to be alone. She was not sure she should approve of young men who made such
crude efforts to scrape acquaintance with women on trains. She was accustomed to a certain
amount of formality in such matters. It might perhaps be laid to the "breezy Western manner"
of which she had heard, except that Paul Abbey did not impress her as a Westerner. He seemed
more like a type of young man she had encountered frequently in her own circle. At any rate,
she was relieved when he did not remain beside her to emit polite commonplaces. She was quite
satisfied to sit by herself and look over the panorama of woods and lake--and wonder more than
a little what Destiny had in store for her along those silent shores.

The Springs fell far behind, became a few white spots against the background of dusky green.
Except for the ripples spread by their wake, the water laid oily smooth. Now, a little past
four in the afternoon, she began to sense by comparison the great bulk of the western mountains,--locally,
the Chehalis Range,--for the sun was dipping behind the ragged peaks already, and deep shadows
stole out from the shore to port. Beneath her feet the screw throbbed, pulsing like an overdriven
heart, and Sam Davis poked his sweaty face now and then through a window to catch a breath
of cool air denied him in the small inferno where he stoked the fire box.

The Chickamin cleared Echo Island, and a greater sweep of lake opened out. Here the afternoon
wind sprang up, shooting gustily through a gap between the Springs and Hopyard and ruffling
the lake out of its noonday siesta. Ripples, chop, and a growing swell followed each other
with that marvellous rapidity common to large bodies of fresh water. It broke the monotony
of steady cleaving through dead calm. Stella was a good sailor, and she rather enjoyed it when
the Chickamin began to lift and yaw off before the following seas that ran up under her fantail
stern.

After about an hour's run, with the south wind beginning to whip the crests of the short seas
into white foam, the boat bore in to a landing behind a low point. Here Abbey disembarked,
after taking the trouble to come aft and shake hands with polite farewell. Standing on the
float, hat in hand, he bowed his sleek blond head to Stella.

"I hope you'll like Roaring Lake, Miss Benton," he said, as Benton jingled the go-ahead bell.
"I tried to persuade Charlie to stop over awhile, so you could meet my mother and sister, but
he's in too big a hurry. Hope to have the pleasure of meeting you again soon."

Miss Benton parried courteously, a little at a loss to fathom this bland friendliness, and
presently the widening space cut off their talk. As the boat drew offshore, she saw two women
in white come down toward the float, meet Abbey, and turn back. And a little farther out through
an opening in the woods, she saw a white and green bungalow, low and rambling, wide-verandahed,
set on a hillock three hundred yards back from shore. There was an encircling area of smooth
lawn, a place restfully inviting.

Watching that, seeing a figure or two moving about, she was smitten with a recurrence of that
poignant loneliness which had assailed her fitfully in the last four days. And while the Chickamin
was still plowing the inshore waters on an even keel, she walked the guard rail alongside and
joined her brother in the pilot house.

"Isn't that a pretty place back there in the woods?" she remarked.

"Abbey's summer camp; spells money to me, that's all," Charlie grumbled. "It's a toy for their
women,--up-to-date cottage, gardeners, tennis courts, afternoon tea on the lawn for the guests,
and all that. But the Abbey-Monohan bunch has the money to do what they want to do. They've
made it in timber, as I expect to make mine. You didn't particularly want to stay over and
get acquainted, did you?"

"I? Of course not," she responded.

"Personally, I don't want to mix into their social game," Charlie drawled. "Or at least, I
don't propose to make any tentative advances. The women put on lots of side, they say. If they
want to hunt us up and cultivate you, all right. But I've got too much to do to butt into society.
Anyway, I didn't want to run up against any critical females looking like I do right now."

Stella smiled.

"Under certain circumstances, appearances do count then, in this country," she remarked. "Has
your Mr. Abbey got a young and be-yutiful sister?"

"He has, but that's got nothing to do with it," Charlie retorted. "Paul's all right himself.
But their gait isn't mine--not yet. Here, you take the wheel a minute. I want to smoke. I don't
suppose you ever helmed a forty-footer, but you'll never learn younger."

She took the wheel and Charlie stood by, directing her. In twenty minutes they were out where
the run of the sea from the south had a fair sweep. The wind was whistling now. All the roughened
surface was spotted with whitecaps. The Chickamin would hang on the crest of a wave and shoot
forward like a racer, her wheel humming, and again the roller would run out from under her,
and she would labor heavily in the trough.

It began to grow insufferably hot in the pilot house. The wind drove with them, pressing the
heat from the boiler and fire box into the forward portion of the boat, where Stella stood
at the wheel. There were puffs of smoke when Davis opened the fire box to ply it with fuel.
All the sour smells that rose from an unclean bilge eddied about them. The heat and the smell
and the surging motion began to nauseate Stella.

"I must get outside where I can breathe," she gasped, at length. "It's suffocating. I don't
see how you stand it."

