On the morning of the third day of the "big push" five "Y" men started with heavy packs of
supplies to find our brave lads of the 37th who were somewhere in the line. We were given as
guides two privates who were returning to the front for more prisoners. They had brought in
many prisoners that morning. I was interested and drew one of them into conversation.

"How many prisoners did you have?"

"A bunch of fifty. We captured so many that first day it was hard to get them all back quickly
to the retention camps."

"I suppose they were all disarmed."

"O yes, all weapons were taken from them and they were searched for secret messages or information
which would be valuable to our army."

"Were they allowed to keep any of their belongings?"

"Only the clothes they wore and their caps. Sometimes they would also keep their gas masks
and canteens."

We were on a forest trail. The mud from recent rains covered our leggings and our heavy hobnail
shoes. We came to a crossroads in the heart of the Forest. Our wounded on stretchers were everywhere.
I can see now the bandaged eyes of the gassed patients, the armless sleeve or the bared breast
with the bloody dressings. I can see the silent forms of those who would never fight again.

But my heart thrills as the white armband with its red cross comes out sharp and distinct in
the picture. Our doctors and surgeons were the miracle-workers of that awful field of slaughter.
And the ambulance men were the angels of mercy to thousands whose life blood was wasting fast away.

The "Y" man with his pack always received a sincere welcome. There was a smile of gratitude
as a piece of chocolate was placed in the mouth of one whose hands were useless, or a cigarette
and a light given to another whose whole frame was aquiver from the shock of battle. There
were the eager requests of the Red-Cross men for extra supplies for the boys whom they would
see when Mr. Y-Man was not with them.

"A dead Hun is the only good Hun"--this was a war definition, and true at least while the battle
was on. Everywhere through the Forest were Boche made "good" by American bullets. Near a dead
German officer was a group of our boys looking over the "treasures" which his pockets held.
There was also a photo of a French officer. Evidently, the Hun had earlier in the war killed
the Frenchman and taken his picture for a souvenir. Was it poetic justice that the Hun should
fall victim to a Yank bullet, and that the photo of his captive, together with his own, should
be taken by his American slayer and given as souvenirs to a Y.M.C.A. secretary?

I was one of a score of "Y" men who followed Farnsworth's division into action, establishing
hot chocolate stations and carrying on our backs great packs of chocolate, cigarettes, and
tobacco which we gave away to the boys on the battlefield. There we met the wounded who, having
received first aid, were being carried on stretchers back to the field dressing stations, where
the army surgeons were working feverishly under trees or in protected valleys. From here continuous
lines of stretcher-bearers with their precious burdens moved back to the field hospitals.

On the edge of the Forest near Montfâucon and about three miles back of the line was the nearest
field hospital in an elaborate system of German dugouts. The location was well concealed on
a hill thickly covered by forest trees and a dense tangle of underbrush. Much time had been
spent by the Boche soldiers in making it not only secure but attractive. Rustic fences protected
the wooden walks leading to the main entrance. A maze of paths as in a garden, connected the
various entrances (doorways). Long flights of wooden steps led down fifteen, twenty, and even
thirty feet underground. The deepest cave was connected by a tunnel with the railway system
that had branches everywhere through the Forest.

When we found the head surgeon we told him we had chocolate for his patients. He took us to
one of the wards where thirty men were crowded into four small rooms. The odor of death was
in the air. The labored breathing of unconscious men cast a gloom that was hard to shake off.

"How do you stay here and keep sane?" I asked the doctor in charge. For five days and nights
he had scarcely slept, and all he had to eat was what he prepared for himself on a little stove
in the six-by-ten room that served for office and living quarters of himself and his assistant.
"The boys are wonderful," he said, "and one forgets himself in trying to save them."

As we went from cot to cot with a piece of chocolate for each, gripping the hands of some and
looking into the eyes of others too far gone even to speak, we knew he had spoken the truth.
No complaint escaped their lips. The light of a great new dawn kindled in the eyes of many,
and their smile of gratitude for the kindness done them made the small service rendered a sacrament
sacred on the field of battle.

Returning one evening after a wonderful but terrible day with the boys on the front, we worked
our way along a ridge where our 75's were belching fire into the ranks of the enemy. We were
giving out the last of our supplies to the crews who were manning these guns. I stopped to
speak to an infantry major who was directing the movements of his men by telephone and messenger
from a former German dugout where he had taken up temporary headquarters. When I came up he
was standing by a gun looking out over the battlefield and watching the stretcher bearers returning
from the "line." He had tried in vain to get more artillery sent forward to support his men
who were being mowed down by the merciless fire from the Boche machine guns and cannon. At
first his voice choked with emotion, and then revenge took possession of him as he cursed the
Hun for bringing upon the world such slaughter. It seemed as if his great heart would burst
as he realized the suffering and the sacrifice of his boys whom he had ordered to hold at any
cost. His voice choked as he cried, "My God, but they are punishing my boys."

As we walked on in a driving rainstorm and through mud and underbrush and wormed our way amid
wire entanglements, we came upon a field kitchen and were invited to supper. We gladly accepted
and sat down in the rain to potatoes and meat, bread, butter, and coffee, with a dessert of
pancakes and syrup. It was a meal fit for a king, and no food ever tasted quite so sweet. It
was about fifteen miles to our hut, and darkness had overtaken us. While we were eating, an
empty ammunition cart drawn by four horses came along, and the sergeant in charge offered us
a ride. The offer was gladly accepted because we had no guide, and for two hours we bumped
over the rough forest trail.

On the way we overtook many of our wounded, who after receiving first aid had attempted to
walk back to the camps in the rear. Wherever we found them we gave them a lift to the nearest
rest camp or ambulance station. Some whom we were privileged to help seemed completely exhausted
and unable to drag any farther.

When at last the forest trail opened into the highway the going was faster. When within three
miles of Avoncourt we were stopped by a tieup in traffic. After a few minutes' wait, seeing
that there was no sign of advancing, we decided to walk on. For two solid miles the road was
blocked, the rains having made the roads almost impassable. We worked our way in and out past
ammunition wagons, Red Cross ambulances, officers' cars, and army trucks. Just before midnight
we reached our huts at Avoncourt, where hot chocolate was being served to never-ending lines
of tin-helmeted, khaki-clad wearers of the gas mask.

Through this town, now leveled to the ground by four years of intermittent bombardment, we
groped our way to a temporary "Y" supply hut, where we hoped to spend the night. Upon opening
the door we discovered that every available foot of space on the bare ground floor was occupied
by "Y" men rolled up in their blankets. They were so exhausted from their long hikes to the
front, or their continuous serving at the chocolate canteen, that they could sleep anywhere.
We quickly decided to continue our tramp another eight miles to the base headquarters, which
we reached at three in the morning drenched and exhausted and literally covered with mud. After
three hours of good refreshing sleep we were up again and ready to serve our boys--the invincibles.

CHAPTER IV

HOLDING THE LINE

"On to Berlin," was the cry of the whole Yank army. And the boys were impatient of every delay
that kept them from their goal. They all felt like the colored private from Alabama who was
asked to join a French class: "No, I don' want to study French. I want to study German."

After the hisses had died down some one asked, "Why is it you want to study German rather than
French?"

"I'se goin' to Berlin."

Then the hisses gave way to cheers.

It was that same spirit which caused Corporal Cole, of the Marines, to say: "The marines do
not know such a word as 'retreat.'" That was the spirit which brought the curt reply from Col.
Whittlesey when the Huns asked his "Lost Battalion" to surrender.

The American army was a victorious army. It had never been defeated. It had faith in its ideals.
Those ideals were neither selfish nor arrogant. It wore no boastful "Gott mit uns" on its belt.
It desired only the opportunity of striking low that nation which dared to dictate terms to
the Almighty as well as to men. It braved three thousand miles of submarine peril to meet such
an enemy.

Even an invincible army has to breathe and eat and sleep. They can hold their breath long enough
to adjust a gas mask, but the mask tells us that even in gas they must be enabled to breathe.
In the heat of the chase when the Hun is the hare, they can forget for a time that they are
hungry, but the field kitchen testifies to the fact that hunger undermines courage and that
an efficient army must be a well-fed army.

To see men curled up in muddy shell-holes with the sky for canopy, peacefully sleeping, while
cannon are booming on every side and shells whining overhead, is sufficient evidence that sleep
is not a myth invented by the Gods of Rest.

While the spirit of the boys was willing to go right through to Berlin, their flesh asserted
its weakness. Their first dash over the top was invincible, and we were told that in ten hours
they swept forward to their goal sixty hours ahead of schedule. There they dug in and for four
days held the line in the face of a murderous and desperate German fire.

During those four awful days I saw no sign of "yellow," but everywhere relentless courage.

"Hello, Mr. Y-Man, don't you want to see a fellow that has three holes through him and still
going strong?"

"You don't really mean it, do you? Show him to me. I want to look into the eyes of such a man."
They led me over to a bunch of soldiers who had just come out of the line and there in the
center of an admiring crowd was my man, happy as a lark. His three wounds--one in the left
breast, one in the thigh, and a scalp wound--had been dressed, and while these wounds had glorified
him in the eyes of his comrades, he was ready to forget them.

Even though a hundred shells exploding near by miss you, and you become convinced that Fritz
does not really have your name and address, yet each explosion registers its shock on the nerve
centers. If this be long-continued, the nerves give way and you find yourself a shell-shock
patient, tagged and on your way to one of the quiet back areas where you can forget the war
and get a grip upon yourself again.

Holding the line in open warfare costs a heavy toll in human life, but here again our boys
showed their invincible spirit. Not once did I see a Yankee that showed any eagerness to get
away from the line. The mortally wounded accepted the sacrifice they had been called upon to
make without bemoaning fate, and remained cheerful to the end. Of course when a man was "facing
West" he longed for the loved faces and the heaven of home. We who had our own "little heaven"
back in the homeland knew and instinctively read those sacred thoughts and prayers and gave
just the hand-pressure of deep sympathy.

To have spoken of home at such a time would have been to tear the heart already breaking, with
a deep anguish that would interfere with their possibility of recovery. So the cheery word
of hope and faith was given, and any final message quietly taken and faithfully and sacredly
fulfilled.

The wounded men whom we met coming out of the line who were not "facing West" were with one
accord hopeful of speedy recovery, not that they might "save their own skin" and get back home
alive, but that they might get back into the fight and help to put forever out of commission
that devilish military machine that had threatened the democratic freedom of the world.

Then again there were the boys who had miraculously escaped being wounded, and after days in
the very bowels of hell, which no pen can picture and no tongue recite, had been released from
the line and were working their way back to the food kitchens, the water carts, and the rest
of the camps. One such doughboy, I met near Montfâucon, about midway between the front line
and an artillery ridge where our 75's were coughing shells in rapid succession upon the entrenched
foe. His water canteen had long been empty and the nourishment of his hard tack and "corn willie"[2]
forgotten. His lips were parched with thirst and bleeding from cracks, the result of long-continued
gun fire. His body was wearied by the heavy strain, his cheeks were gaunt from hunger and his
eyes circled for want of rest. His whole bearing was of one who had passed through suffering
untold, and yet there was no word of bitterness or complaint. His gratitude for a sup of water
from my canteen was richer to me than the plaudits of multitudes, and the fine courage with
which he worked his painful way back to rest and refreshment caused my heart to yearn after
him with a tenderness which he can never know.

Where a division is merely holding the line, there being no aggressive action on either side,
except night-raiding parties, men can stand it for a longer period. Under such circumstances
a company would stay in the front line for ten days, part being on guard while the others were
sleeping. At the end of the ten days they would be relieved by a fresh company and return to
a rest camp in the rear. The boys hardly considered it rest, as there was constant drilling,
besides camp duties and activities of many kinds.

Out in No Man's Land we had our "listening" and "observation" posts. These posts are set as
near the enemy line as possible. It is very hazardous work, and requires steady nerves and
clear heads. Each squad in a post remains for forty-eight hours, and each man of the squad
is on actual guard for four hours at a time.

Where men are on the line in aggressive warfare, the action is so intense that they cannot
stand up under long-continued fighting. In the Argonne fight our Ohio division was on the front
line for five days after going "over the top." Then they were relieved by a fresh division,
which took their places under cover of the night.

As our boys came out I stood all night with another "Y" man on a German narrow-gauge railroad
crossing, giving a smoke or a piece of chocolate to each man as he passed. The enthusiastic
expressions of the great majority bore ample testimony to their keen appreciation. "You're
a life-saver," is the way they put it.

Now let me give you a glimpse of the fine courage and noble manhood of the boys who were actually
facing the foe in the front line. I have been with them in many positions and under varied
circumstances even up to within three hundred yards of the Boche line. First a great word--A
Yank never feared his enemy.

The most horrible stories of Hunnish brutality and barbarity only served to intensify the Yanks'
desire to strike that enemy low. One of our splendid fellows, a private of the 102nd Infantry,
came frequently into our station at Rimaucourt where I was a hut secretary during the first
month of my stay in France. I felt instinctively that he had a story which he might tell, although
he had the noncommittal way of an officer on the Intelligence Staff. Through several days of
quiet fellowship the story came out.

It was during the time when the Boche were smashing their way toward Paris. It takes more courage
to face a foe when he is on the aggressive than when he is being held or driven back. Our hero's
company was meeting an attack. He had previously lost a brother, victim of a Boche bullet.
The spirit of vengeance had stealthily entered his very soul, and secretly he had vowed to
avenge that brother's death with as great a toll of enemy lives as possible, if the opportunity
came to him.

No man ever knows what he will do under fire until the test comes, but be it said to their
glory, our boys never failed when the crucial hour came. (They were soldiers not of training
but of character.) Quietly, with unflinching courage, our boys awaited the onslaught. Finally
when the command to fire was given our friend selected his men--no random fire for him. One
by one he saw his victims drop until he had accounted definitely for six. The next man was
a towering Prussian Guard. A lightning debate flashed through his mind and stayed momentarily
his trigger finger. Was a swift and merciful bullet sufficient revenge, or should he wait and
give his foe that which he so much feared, the cold steel? The momentary hesitation ended the
debate, for the Guard was almost upon him. Quickly he prepared for the shock, and, parrying
the Hun's first thrust, he gave him the upward stroke with the butt of his gun; but the Hun
kept coming, and he quickly brought his gun down--his second stroke cutting the head with the
blade of his bayonet. The Prussian reeled but was not finished, and as he came again our friend
pricked him in the left breast with the point of his bayonet in an over-hand thrust of his
rifle. Still he had failed to give his foe a lethal stroke, and as he recoiled for a final
encounter he resolved to give him the full benefit of a body thrust and drove his bayonet home,
the blade breaking as the foe crashed to the ground.

There is a sequel to this story which we must never forget. Whatever may have been the undaunted
heroism of our boys when in action, each one of them not only "had a heart" but also a conscience.
And while war, which is worse than Sherman's "hell," suspends for the time the heart appeal
and stifles the conscience, the reaction is almost invariably the same.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] "Corn willie" was corned beef carried in small tin cans and eaten cold when on the march.

CHAPTER V

TANKS AND TRACTORS

The infantry is the most mobile of any division of the army. Men can go where horses and guns
find it impossible. They can file silently through narrow passes or a maze of forest trees
and underbrush. They can scale cliffs. They can dodge shell-holes and negotiate muddy roads
and morasses. They can move slowly or quickly at will and can therefore take difficult positions
where it is impossible quickly to bring up artillery support.

