
"The conception or feeling of a mission grew up and was developed by slow degrees," says Mr.
Montefiore, and this sounds much nearer the truth. For, as I said, history is the sole clue
to the Bible--history, which according to Bacon, is "philosophy teaching by example." And the
more modern the history is, and the nearer in time, the better we can understand it. We have
before our very eyes the moving spectacle of the newest of nations setting herself through
a President-Prophet the noblest mission ever formulated outside the Bible. Through another
great prophet--sprung like Amos from the people--through Abraham Lincoln, America had already
swept away slavery. I do not know exactly when she began to call herself "God's own country,"
but her National Anthem, "My Country, 'tis of thee," dating from 1832, fixes the date when
America, soon after the second war with England, which ended in 1814, consciously felt herself
as a Holy Land; far as visitors like Dickens felt her from the perfection implied in her soaring
Spread-Eagle rhetoric. The Pilgrim Fathers went to America merely for their own freedom of
religious worship: they were actually intolerant to others. From a sectarian patriotism developed
what I have called "The Melting Pot," with its high universal mission, first at home and now
over the world at large.

The stages of growth are still more clearly marked in English history.

This sense of itself had been born only in the thirteenth century, and at first the growing
consciousness of national power, though it soon developed an assurance of special protection--"the
favour of the love of Heaven," wrote Milton in his "Areopagitica," "we have great argument
to think in a peculiar manner propitious and propending towards us"--was tempered by that humility
still to be seen in the liturgy of its Church, which ascribes its victories not to the might
of the English arm, but to the favour of God. But one hundred and twenty-five years after Shakespeare,
the land which the Elizabethan translators of the Bible called "Our Sion," and whose mission,
according to Milton, had been to sound forth "the first tidings and trumpet of reformation
to all Europe," had sunk to the swaggering militarism that found expression in "Rule, Britannia."

It is the true expression of its period--a period which Sir John Seeley in his "Expansion of
England" characterizes as the period of the struggle with France for the possession of India
and the New World: there were no less than seven wars with France, for France had replaced
Spain in that great competition of the five western maritime States of Europe for Transatlantic
trade and colonies, in which Seeley sums up the bulk of two centuries of European history.
Well may Mr. Chesterton point to the sinking of the Armada as the date when an Old Testament
sense of being "answered in stormy oracles of air and sea" lowered Englishmen into a Chosen
People. Shakespeare saw the sea serving England in the modest office of a moat: it was now
to be the high-road of Empire. The Armada was shattered in 1588. In 1600 the East India Company
is formed to trade all over the world. In 1606 is founded the British colony of Virginia and
in 1620 New England. It helps us to understand the dual and conflicting energies stimulated
in the atmosphere of celestial protection, if we recall that it was in 1604 that was initiated
the great Elizabethan translation of the Bible.

