He formed an alliance with the neighbouring king, Mayreni, whose province was in the west of
the island.  Getting together a force of warriors these two kings marched rapidly and stealthily
through the, forest for several days until they arrived at its northern border.  They came
in the dead of night to the neighbourhood of La Navidad, where the inhabitants of the fortress,
some ten in number, were fast asleep.  Fast asleep were the remaining dozen or so of the Spaniards
who were living in houses or huts in the neighbourhood; fast asleep also the gentle natives,
not dreaming of troubles from any quarter but that close at hand.  The sweet silence of the
tropical night was suddenly broken by frightful yells as Caonabo and his warriors rushed the
fortress and butchered the inhabitants, setting fire to it and to the houses round about. 
As their flimsy huts burst into flames the surprised Spaniards rushed out, only to be fallen
upon by the infuriated blacks.  Eight of the Spaniards rushed naked into the sea and were drowned;
the rest were butchered. Guacanagari manfully came to their assistance and with his own followers
fought throughout the night; but his were a gentle and unwarlike people, and they were easily
routed.  The King himself was badly wounded in the thigh, but Caonabo's principal object seems
to have been the destruction of the Spaniards, and when that was completed he and his warriors,
laden with the spoils, retired.

Thus Columbus, walking on the shore with his native interpreter, or sitting in his cabin listening
with knitted brow to the accounts of the islanders, learns of the complete and utter failure
of his first hopes. It has come to this.  These are the real first-fruits of his glorious conquest
and discovery.  The New World has served but as a virgin field for the Old Adam.  He who had
sought to bring light and life to these happy islanders had brought darkness and death; they
had innocently clasped the sword he had extended to them and cut themselves.  The Christian
occupation of the New World had opened with vice, cruelty, and destruction; the veil of innocence
had been rent in twain, and could never be mended or joined again.  And the Earthly Paradise
in which life had gone so happily, of which sun and shower had been the true rulers, and the
green sprouting harvests the only riches, had been turned into a shambles by the introduction
of human rule and civilised standards of wealth.  Gold first and then women, things beautiful
and innocent in the happy native condition of the islands, had been the means of the disintegration
and death of this first colony.  These are serious considerations for any coloniser; solemn
considerations for a discoverer who is only on the verge and beginning of his empire-making;
mournful considerations for Christopher as he surveys the blackened ruins of the fort, or stands
bare-headed by the grass-covered graves.

There seemed to be a certain hesitancy on the part of Guacanagari to present himself; for though
he kept announcing his intention of coming to visit the Admiral he did not come.  A couple
of days after the discovery of the remains, however, he sent a message to Columbus begging
him to come and see him, which the Admiral accordingly did, accompanied by a formal retinue
and carrying with him the usual presents.  Guacanagari was in bed sure enough complaining of
a wounded leg, and he told the story of the settlement very much as Columbus had already heard
it from the other natives.  He pointed to his own wounded leg as a sign that he had been loyal
and faithful to his friendly promises; but when the leg was examined by the surgeon in order
that it might be dressed no wound could be discovered, and it was obvious to Doctor Chanca
that the skin had not been broken.  This seemed odd; Friar Buil was so convinced that the whole
story was a deception that he wished the Admiral to execute Guacanagari on the spot.  Columbus,
although he was puzzled, was by no means convinced that Guacanagari had been unfaithful to
him, and decided to do nothing for the present.  He invited the cacique to come on board the
flagship; which he did, being greatly interested by some of the Carib prisoners, notably a
handsome woman, named by the Spaniards Dofia Catalina, with whom he held a long conversation.

Relations between the Admiral and the cacique, although outwardly cordial, were altogether
different from what they had been in, the happy days after their first meeting; the man seemed
to shrink from all the evidence of Spanish power, and when they proposed to hang a cross round
his neck the native king, much as he loved trinkets and toys, expressed a horror and fear of
this jewel when he learned that it was an emblem of the Christian faith.  He had seen a little
too much of the Christian religion; and Heaven only knows with what terror and depression the
emblem of the cross inspired him.  He went ashore; and when a messenger was sent to search
for him a few days afterwards, it was found that he had moved his whole establishment into
the interior of the island.  The beautiful native woman Catalina escaped to shore and disappeared
at the same time; and the two events were connected in the minds of some of the Spaniards,
and held, wrongly as it turned out, to be significant of a deep plot of native treachery.

The most urgent need was to build the new settlement and lay out a town. Several small parties
were sent out to reconnoitre the coast in both directions, but none of them found a suitable
place; and on December 7th the whole fleet sailed to the east in the hope of finding a better
position.  They were driven by adverse winds into a harbour some thirty miles to the east of
Monte Christi, and when they went ashore they decided that this was as good a site as any for
the new town.  There was about a quarter of a mile of level sandy beach enclosed by headlands
on either side; there was any amount of rock and stones for building, and there was a natural
barrier of hills and mountains a mile or so inland that would protect a camp from that side.--The
soil was very fertile, the vegetation luxuriant; and the mango swamps a little way inland drained
into a basin or lake which provided an unlimited water supply. Columbus therefore set about
establishing a little town, to which he gave the name of Isabella.  Streets and squares were
laid out, and rows of temporary buildings made of wood and thatched with grass were hastily
run up for the accommodation of the members of the expedition, while the foundations of three
stone buildings were also marked out and the excavations put in hand.  These buildings were
the church, the storehouse, and a residence for Columbus as Governor-General.  The stores were
landed, the horses and cattle accommodated ashore, the provisions, ammunition, and agricultural
implements also.  Labourers were set to digging out the foundations of the stone buildings,
carpenters to cutting down trees and running up the light wooden houses that were to serve
as barracks for the present; masons were employed in hewing stones and building landing-piers;
and all the crowd of well-born adventurers were set to work with their hands, much to their
disgust.  This was by no means the life they had imagined, and at the first sign of hard work
they turned sulky and discontented.  There was, to be sure, some reason for their discontent.
Things had not quite turned out as Columbus had promised they should; there was no store of
gold, nor any sign of great desire on the part of the natives to bring any; and to add to their
other troubles, illness began to break out in the camp.  The freshly-turned rank soil had a
bad effect on the health of the garrison; the lake, which had promised to be so pleasant a
feature in the new town, gave off dangerous malarial vapours at night; and among the sufferers
from this trouble was Columbus himself, who endured for some weeks all the pains and lassitude
of the disagreeable fever.

The ships were now empty and ready for the return voyage, and as soon as Columbus was better
he set to work to face the situation.  After all his promises it would never do to send them
home empty or in ballast; a cargo of stones from the new-found Indies would not be well received
in Spain. The natives had told him that somewhere in the island existed the gold mines of Cibao,
and he determined to make an attempt to find these, so that he could send his ships home laden
with a cargo that would be some indemnity for the heavy cost of the expedition and some compensation
for the bad news he must write with regard to his first settlement.  Young Ojeda was chosen
to lead an expedition of fifteen picked men into the interior; and as the gold mines were said
to be in a part of the island not under the command of Guacanagari, but in the territory of
the dreaded Caonabo, there was no little anxiety felt about the expedition.

Ojeda started in the beginning of January 1494, and marched southwards through dense forests
until, having crossed a mountain range, he came down into a beautiful and fertile valley, where
they were hospitably received by the natives.  They saw plenty of gold in the sand of the river
that watered the valley, which sand the natives had a way of washing so that the gold was separated
from it; and there seemed to be so much wealth there that Ojeda hurried back to the new city
of Isabella to make his report to Columbus.  The effect upon the discontented colonists was
remarkable.  Once more everything was right; wealth beyond the dreams of avarice was at their
hand; and all they had to do was to stretch out their arms and take it.  Columbus felt that
he need no longer delay the despatch of twelve of his ships on the homeward voyage.  If he
had not got golden cargoes for them, at any rate he had got the next best thing, which was
the certainty of gold; and it did not matter whether it was in the ships or in his storehouse.
He had news to send home at any rate, and a great variety of things to ask for in return, and
he therefore set about writing his report to the Sovereigns.  Other people, as we know, were
writing letters too; the reiterated promise of gold, and the marvellous anecdotes which these
credulous settlers readily believed from the natives, such as that there was a rock close by
out of which gold would burst if you struck it with a club, raised greed and expectation in
Spain to a fever pitch, and prepared the reaction which followed.

We may now read the account of the New World as Columbus sent it home to the King and Queen
of Spain in the end of January 1494, and as they read it some weeks later.  Their comments,
written in the margin of the original, are printed in italics at the end of each paragraph.
It was drawn up in the form of a memorandum, and entrusted to Antonio de Torres, who was commanding
the return expedition.

"What you, Antonio de Torres, captain of the ship Marigalante and Alcalde of the City of Isabella,
are to say and supplicate on my part to the King and Queen, our Lords, is as follows:--

     "First.  Having delivered the letters of credence which you carry
     from me for their Highnesses, you will kiss for me their Royal feet
     and hands and will recommend me to their Highnesses as to a King and
     Queen, my natural Lords, in whose service I desire to end my days:
     as you will be able to say this more fully to their Highnesses,
     according to what you have seen and known of me.

          ["Their Highnesses hold him in their favour.]

     "Item.  Although by the letters I write to their Highnesses, and
     also the father Friar Buil and the Treasurer, they will be able to
     understand all that has been done here since our arrival, and this
     very minutely and extensively: nevertheless, you will say to their
     Highnesses on my part, that it has pleased God to give me such
     favour in their service, that up to the present time.  I do not find
     less, nor has less been found in anything than what I wrote and said
     and affirmed to their Highnesses in the past: but rather, by the
     Grace of God, I hope that it will appear, by works much more clearly
     and very soon, because such signs and indications of spices have
     been found on the shores of the sea alone, without having gone
     inland, that there is reason that very much better results may be
     hoped for: and this also may be hoped for in the mines of gold,
     because by two persons only who went to investigate, each one on his
     own part, without remaining there because there was not many people,
     so many rivers have been discovered so filled with gold, that all
     who saw it and gathered specimens of it with the hands alone, came
     away so pleased and say such things in regard to its abundance, that
     I am timid about telling it and writing it to their Highnesses: but
     because Gorbalan, who was one of the discoverers, is going yonder,
     he will tell what he saw, although another named Hojeda remains
     here, a servant of the Duke of Medinaceli, a very discreet youth and
     very prudent, who without doubt and without comparison even,
     discovered much more according to the memorandum which he brought of
     the rivers, saying that there is an incredible quantity in each one
     of them for this their Highnesses may give thanks to God, since He
     has been so favourable to them in all their affairs.

          ["Their Highnesses give many thanks to God for this, and
          consider as a very signal service all that the Admiral has done
          in this matter and is doing: because they know that after God
          they are indebted to him for all they have had, and will have
          in this affair: and as they are writing him more fully about
          this, they refer him to their letter.]

