There has been, as a matter of fact, an extraordinary amount of loose thinking concerning the
precise relations between science, ethics and religion.  The churches, having become irretrievably
discredited in their doctrinal teaching (their very ministers, in the persons of Stanley and
Jowett, openly avowing disbelief in their articles and creeds), religion has come to be looked
upon as a sort of no man's land, and therefore the legitimate property of the first occupier.
Science, as the enterprising agency par excellence of the century, has stepped in, and in claiming
to exhaustively explain religion, virtually claims to have simultaneously annexed morality,
erroneously looked upon as a department of religion.

But a little more careful thinking ought to convince the most eager of the advance-agents of
physical science that the discipline they serve so loyally is altogether unconcerned with the
moral life, and wholly incompetent to deal with its problems.  Mr. Frederic Harrison once asked,
and with extreme pertinence, what the mere dissector of frogs could claim to know of the facts
of morality and religion?  Positively nothing, as such, and in their more sober moments "the
beaters of the drum" scientific would appear to be well aware of the fact.  For instance, Mr.
Huxley himself, oblivious of all he had claimed in the name of physical science, asked with
surprise, in what laboratory questions of aesthetics and historical truth could be tested?
In what, indeed? we may well ask.  And yet the physical science which is avowedly incapable
of deciding the comparatively insignificant matters of taste and history is prepared to take
over with the lightest of hearts the immense burden of morality and to become the conscience-keeper,
I had almost said the Father Confessor, of humanity! I imagine Mr. Huxley himself would have
shrunk before the assumption of such responsibility.

But let us approach the matter more closely.  To physical science, one act is precisely the
same as another; a mere matter of molecular movement or change.  You raise your arm, you think
with the energy and profundity of a Hegel; to the physicist it is all one and the same thing--a
fresh distribution of matter and motion, muscular contraction, and rise and fall of the grey
pulp called brain.  A burglar shoots a policeman dead and the public headsman decapitates a
criminal.  To physical science, those two acts differ in no respect.  They are exercises of
muscular energy, expenditure of nervous power, the effecting of molecular change, and there
the matter ends.  But surely, you would urge, the scientist would discriminate between those
two acts.  Most assuredly.  The one he would reprobate as immoral, and the other he would approve
as lawful.  But, be it carefully noted, he would do this, not as a scientist, but as a citizen
respecting law and order and upholding good government based on morality and justice.  As a
moralist, then, but not as a scientist does he pass judgment, for there is no experimental
science which deals with such matters.  Physics concerns itself solely with what it can see
and handle--nothing else. The actions, therefore, of right and wrong, justice and injustice,
morality and immorality are simply unintelligible to it, just as unintelligible as they are
to the most highly developed animal.  It is the fully developed mind or intelligence alone
which apprehends the sublime conception of duty, and the indefeasible claims which it has upon
the allegiance of the will, and, in consequence, the scientist who denounces injustice and
iniquity is no longer on the tripod of the professor, but in the rostrum of the ethical teacher.
If I may say so, it supplies us with an admirable illustration of a quick-change performance.
The same man performs a double part, and so adroitly is the change managed, that the performer
himself is deceived into thinking that he is still the scientist, whereas he has become for
the moment the moral professor.  But he did not acquire that new teaching in the laboratory;
he learnt it in the study.

But there is distinctly one point of close contact between science and morality, which we must
not omit to point out.  Physical science, particularly physiology, from its intimate acquaintance
with the human organism, is admirably adapted for the function of a danger-signal, so to speak,
to warn the ignorant and indifferent that a life undisciplined and ill-regulated cannot but
end in irretrievable disaster.  It thus most powerfully subserves the ends of private and individual
morality, just as historical science, which, as Professor Huxley accurately noted, can in no
wise be tested in a retort or a crucible, can point the moral when the lawless actions of public
bodies or nations threaten the foundations upon which society rests.  The physiologist can
preach a sermon of appalling severity to the drunkard; he can describe internal and external
horrors (as certain to ensue in the victim's case, as night follows day), compared with which
the imaginings of a Dante are comparatively tame.  He can likewise depict a deplorable future
of disease and decay as reserved for the vicious.  He can point to a veritable Gehenna strewn
with the corpses of unnumbered victims.  He can prove to demonstration, if we listen to him,
that no organisation such as ours can resist the awful strain put upon it by the poison of
alcohol, and the enervating results of an undisciplined existence.  "Reform," he can tell us,
"or go to perdition;" and most valuable his sermon will be.

Would that men, so favourably endowed with this intimate knowledge of the intricacy of the
workings of our bodily frame, so utilised their great powers in the service of ethics, pointing
out to the reckless transgressor what a scourge nature has in store for him, what indescribable
disasters he is preparing for himself by his audacity in venturing to break her holy laws.
In the Church which is to be, "the Church of men to come," the scientist will fill this very
rôle.  As the best interpreter of nature, he will be most fitly chosen to discourse to us of
nature's laws.  The priests of humanity in days to be will not be consecrated by a magical
transmission of imaginary powers, but by their ascertained capacity to open a door in heaven
and earth and reveal to us the secret workings of the Soul of the World. We shall meet in united
worship in the great cathedrals, but no more to repeat the dead formulae of a past which is
gone, but to hear the living word of to-day, the last revelation the Supreme has made, be it
through the mouth of poet, prophet, philosopher or scientist.  Then, and only then, shall the
Catholic or Universal Church be born, "coming down out of heaven from God," visibly embracing
all humanity, because excluding none prepared to subscribe the aboriginal creed of the supremacy
of ethic, the everlasting sovereignty of the moral law.

But while we candidly acknowledge the priceless services which science can render to morality
in the way indicated, this in no way warrants our assenting to Mr. Huxley's dictum that science
is the guardian of morality.  As a matter of fact, science points at the deplorable results
of excess without any regard to morality whatsoever.  She announces them as definite facts,
as certain as to-morrow's sunrise, because she is intimately acquainted with the human organisation
and the laws which control it.  But she ventures on no opinion as to the moral worth of the
acts in question; she registers results and there her work ends.  If the scientist does happily
go farther, and point out that conduct conducing to such disastrous consequences must be irredeemably
bad in itself, he is doing most praiseworthy work, but he is no longer the scientist.  He has
slipped off his tripod, and is repeating the lesson of the moralist.  Let us suppose the acts
in question were not followed by unfortunate results.  Say, for example, that by uttering a
falsehood, by altering a figure in a will, or on a draft, one could inherit a fortune, what
physical science could prevent our doing so, or instruct us as to the honesty or dishonesty
of the contemplated action?  Put thus, we see at a glance that the matter is outside the province
of science, and quite beyond its jurisdiction. Morality, therefore, so far from being in the
custody of science, has nothing whatsoever to do with it, but belongs to an entirely different
order, and is ascertained by totally different methods.

If one would know the origin of the theory we are at present freely criticising, it can be
indicated in a moment.  The most ordinary induction has satisfied men that, in the long run,
the Hebrew singer is right when he says, "The way of transgressors is hard".  Wrong-doing and
calamity are inseparably connected.  Those laws, through which the voice of the Supreme is
ever heard, are so intertwined in their action, that the infraction of one leads to the infliction
of retributive punishment by the other.  We break a moral law, the physical law will take up
its cause, and we suffer.  We have come, I say, to see the universal validity of this rule,
the absolute irresistibility of the laws under which we live.  Hence, a shallow judgment has
been hastily framed that you may always judge of the morality of an act by the consequences
it produces.  If the results are good, then the action is good; if evil, then the action is
adjudged bad.  This is, in substance, the Benthamite or utilitarian ethic, Bentham roundly
maintaining that crime is nothing but a miscalculation, an error in arithmetic.  It is the
failure of a man to count the cost, to weigh the results of what he is about to do.  That being
the case, the scientist being persuaded that utility and pleasure make an action good, and
uselessness and pain make it bad, he was able to conclude at a stroke that one action differs
only from another in the results it produces, and that since science was admirably equipped
to take stock of results through its statistical bureau, she, and not the hideous old shrews,
theology and philosophy, was the rightful protectress of morality.

But we, who believe with Immanuel Kant, that the "All's well that ends well theory" has no
place in morality, refuse to recognise that the character of an action is determined solely
by the results it produces. We believe that some actions are intrinsically good, and others
intrinsically bad, totally irrespective of the good or evil they may effect.  We believe with
the Stoics and with Jesus that evil may be consummated in the heart without any evil results
appearing at all.  We believe that thoughts of envy, hatred, malice, are in themselves bad,
irrespective of results, that such a thing as slander is ipso facto stamped as irredeemably
bad long before any of its evil consequences may be manifest.  We look not so much to consequence,
but to the intention of the doer, and the intrinsic nature of the action performed.  Pleasure
and pain considerations are the last things we take into account when we weigh an action in
the scales of justice. The theory is therefore hopelessly inadequate to our needs; it breaks
in our hands when we attempt to use it, and, consequently, we refuse our assent to the proposition
that because science can occasionally predict results she is therefore entitled to patronise
ethics.

The truth is, that ethics need no such patronage.  Neither the theologian nor the scientist
is essential to their well-being.  Ethics are beholden to neither of the two claimants who
dispute the honour of their parentage and protection.  They rest on that alone on which everything
in this miraculous universe, science itself included, ultimately rests, the reason which is
at the heart of things.  The moral law, the sanction of the eternal distinction between right
and wrong, a distinction valid before the very whisperings of science, aye, and of the voice
of men were heard upon this earth, is, to the stately and impressive system of Emerson and
Kant, the first-born of the eternal Reason itself, the very apprehensible nature of the Most
High, which, the more men grow in the moral life, the more they recognise for his inner-most
character and nature.  Things are what they are, and actions are what they are, not because
of the ephemeral judgments of a tribe or nation of men, but because they cannot be otherwise
than they are, good or bad in themselves, judged solely by reference to that everlasting law
of righteousness, the aboriginal enactment of the Eternal.

Men point to the growth and development of the moral sentiment in man, they show how he has
grown from savagery to civilisation, and think therein that they have explained everything.
They are like the photographer I spoke of above.  They have found out the history of ethics,
and they think there is nothing more to know.  Far from it. Identically the same might be said
of music and logic.  Man once beat a tom-tom, and now he writes operas and oratorios.  He once
rambled, now he reasons.  Will any sane man delude himself into believing that music and logic
are nothing more in themselves but the history of the successive stages through which they
have naturally and inevitably passed?  Neither then is ethic and the moral law.  It is not
man's creation, it is not his handiwork.  It is no mere provincialism of this dwindling sphere
of ours, but a fact and a law supreme, holding sway beyond the uttermost star, valid in infinity
and eternity, at this hour, the sovereign law of life for whatsoever or whomsoever lives and
knows, the adamantine foundation upon which all law, civilisation, religion and progress are
built.  And not only Burke, but centuries before him, the great Roman orator, in language equally
sublime, professed his enthusiastic belief in that same law, which "no nation can overthrow
or annul; neither a senate nor a whole people can relieve us from its injunctions.  It is the
same in Athens and in Rome, the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever."

III.

ETHICS AND THEISM.

In the present chapter we propose to discuss the gravest of all the grave problems which gather
round the central conception of ethic as the basis of religion.  There are, it may be said,
two great schools which hold respectively the doctrines which may be not unfitly described
as the significance and the insignificance, or rather, non-significance of ethics.  The latter
school, which is that of Bentham, Mill and Spencer, is content to take ethic as a set of formulae
of utility which man has, in the course of his varied experience, discovered to be serviceable
guides of life.  There is no binding force in them; the idea of a conscience "trembling like
a guilty thing surprised" because it has broken one of these laws, the hot flush of shame which
seems to redden the very soul at the sense of guilt, the agony of remorse so powerful as sometimes
to send the criminal self-confessed and self-condemned to his doom, is all said to be part
of an obsolete form of speculation.  There is merely "a feeling of obligation," such as an
animal may experience which is harnessed to a waggon or a load, but any real obligation, authoritatively
binding on the conscience of man, is repudiated in terms.

Now this teaching I venture to describe as the insignificant ethic, the ethic which connotes
nothing beyond the "feeling of obligation," and refuses to recognise in morality anything but
a series of hints casually picked up, as to how mankind should behave in order to score in
the game of life.

The significant ethic, on the other hand, discerns in the law of morality the pathway into
the transcendental world, the realm of reason beyond the boundaries of the sense.  It sees
in morality the basis of religion; it discovers the fact of man's freedom to conform or not
to conform to the eternal law; it unveils the reality of life beyond this earth-stage of existence,
and last and chiefest of all, it discerns, in the words of Immanuel Kant, "a natural idea of
pure theism" in the unmistakable reality of the moral law, from the very obvious fact that
laws do not make themselves, but are enactments of reason or intelligence.

We propose, therefore, to address ourselves to the fundamental question--the question of questions--the
being of a subsistent intelligence and a supreme moral will, responsible for man and all things,
whom we in our own tongue name God, though it were more reverent to think and speak of the
awful truth with Emerson, as the "Nameless Thought, the Super-personal Heart".  We are to treat
of theism, the philosophical, not the theological, term to designate the truth that the universe
owes its existence to infinite Power and infinite Mind, and that morality is a fact because
that Power is moral also.  To quote Whittier's well-known lines, which express the essential
truth of theism in words of exceeding simplicity combined with philosophic depth:--

  By all that He requires of me
  I know what He Himself must be;

or, to quote the more vigorous, but equally common-sense statement of the facts by Carlyle:
"It was flatly inconceivable to him (Frederick the Great) that moral emotion could have been
put into him by an entity which had none of its own".  And finally, we propose to speak of
theism, thus defined, in its relations to ethics or moral science, the discipline which treats
of human conduct and its conformity with a recognised law of life, the systematising of those
principles of life which man has learned by reason and experience during the course of his
sojourn in this sphere of existence.

