Cavender sighed, straightened up in his chair, eyes fixed obediently on the wooden plate, and
banned ham sandwiches and every other kind of food firmly from his thoughts. There was no point
in working his appetite up any further when he couldn't satisfy it, and he would have to be
on guard a little against simply falling asleep during the next three minutes. The cloudiness
of complete fatigue wasn't too far away. At the edge of his vision, he was aware of his fellow
students across the room, arranged in suddenly motionless rows like staring zombies. His eyelids
began to feel leaden.

The three minutes dragged on, came to an end. Ormond slowly lowered his hands. Cavender drew
a long breath of relief. The wooden plate, he noted, with no surprise, was still empty.

"You may stop visualizing," Ormond announced.

There was a concerted sighing, a creaking of chairs. The students came out of their semitrances,
blinked, smiled, settled into more comfortable positions, waiting for Dr. Al's comments.

"No miracles this time!" Ormond began briskly. He smiled.

Mrs. Folsom said, "Dr. Al--"

He looked over at her. "Yes, Eleanor?"

Eleanor Folsom hesitated, shook her head. "No," she said. "Go on. I'm sorry I interrupted."

"That's all right." Dr. Al gave her a warm smile. It had been, he continued, a successful exercise,
a very promising first attempt, in spite of the lack of an immediate materialization, which,
of course, had been only a remote possibility to start with. He had no fault to find with the
quality of the group's effort. He had sensed it ... as they, too, presently would be able to
sense it ... as a smooth flow of directed energy. With a little more practice ... one of these
days ...

Cavender stifled one yawn, concealed another which didn't allow itself to be stifled behind
a casually raised hand. He watched Ormond move over to the prop table, put the wooden plate
down beside the red suitcase without interrupting his encouraging summary of the exercise,
hesitate, then pick up something else, something which looked like a flexible copper trident,
and start back to the center of the room with it.

Mrs. Folsom's voice said shrilly, "Dr. Al--!"

"Yes, Eleanor? What is it?"

"Just now," Mrs. Folsom said, her voice still holding the shrill note, "just a moment ago,
on the plate over there, I'm certain ... I'm almost certain I saw the ham sandwich!"

She added breathlessly, "And that's what I was going to say before, Dr. Al! Right after you
told us to stop visualizing I thought I saw the sandwich on the plate! But it was only for
a moment and I wasn't sure. But now I'm sure, almost sure, that I saw it again on the plate
on the table!"

The old woman was pointing a trembling finger towards the table. Her cheeks showed spots of
hectic red. In the rows behind her, the students looked at one another, shook their heads in
resignation, some obviously suppressing amusement. Others looked annoyed. They were all familiar
with Eleanor Folsom's tendency to produce such little sensations during the meetings. If the
evening didn't promise to bring enough excitement, Eleanor always could be counted on to take
a hand in events.

Cavender felt less certain about it. This time, Mrs. Folsom sounded genuinely excited. And
if she actually believed she'd seen something materialize, she might be fairly close to getting
one of those little heart attacks she kept everyone informed about.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Al could have had the same thought. He glanced back at the prop table, asked gravely, "You
don't see it there now, do you, Eleanor?"

Mrs. Folsom shook her head. "No. No, of course not! It disappeared again. It was only there
for a second. But I'm sure I saw it!"

"Now this is very interesting," Ormond said seriously. "Has anyone else observed anything at
all unusual during the last few minutes?"

There was a murmured chorus of dissent, but Cavender noticed that the expressions of amusement
and annoyance had vanished. Dr. Al had changed the tune, and the students were listening intently.
He turned back to Mrs. Folsom.

"Let us consider the possibilities here, Eleanor," he said. "For one thing, you should be congratulated
in any case, because your experience shows that your visualization was clear and true throughout
our exercise. If it hadn't been, nothing like this could have occurred.

"But precisely what was the experience? There we are, as of this moment, on uncertain ground.
You saw something. That no one else saw the same thing might mean simply that no one else happened
to be looking at the plate at those particular instances in time. I, for example, certainly
gave it no further attention after the exercise was over. You may then have observed a genuine
materialization!"

Mrs. Folsom nodded vigorously. "Yes, I--"

"But," Ormond went on, "under the circumstances, the scientific attitude we maintain at this
Institute demands that we leave the question open. For now. Because you might also, you understand,
have projected--for yourself only--a vivid momentary impression of the image you had created
during our exercise and were still holding in your mind."

Mrs. Folsom looked doubtful. The flush of excitement began to leave her face.

"Why ... well, yes, I suppose so," she acknowledged unwillingly.

"Of course," Ormond said. "So tonight we shall leave it at that. The next time we engage in
a similar exercise ... well, who knows?" He gave her a reassuring smile. "I must say, Eleanor,
that this is a very encouraging indication of the progress you have made!" He glanced over
the group, gathering their attention, and raised the trident-like device he had taken from
the table.

"And now for our second experiment this evening--"

Looking disappointed and somewhat confused, Eleanor Folsom settled back in her chair. Cavender
also settled back, his gaze shifting sleepily to the remaining items on the prop table. He
was frowning a little. It wasn't his business, but if the old woman had started to hypnotize
herself into having hallucinations, Dr. Al had better turn to a different type of meeting exercises.
And that probably was exactly what Ormond would do; he seemed very much aware of danger signals.
Cavender wondered vaguely what the red suitcase on the table contained.

There was a blurry shimmer on the wooden plate beside the suitcase. Then something thickened
there suddenly as if drawing itself together out of the air. Perrie Rochelle, sitting only
ten feet back from the table, uttered a yelp--somewhere between surprise and alarm. Dexter
Jones, beside her, abruptly pushed back his chair, made a loud, incoherent exclamation of some
kind.

Cavender had started upright, heart hammering. The thing that had appeared on the wooden plate
vanished again.

But it had remained visible there for a two full seconds. And there was no question at all
of what it had been.

For several minutes, something resembling pandemonium swirled about the walls of the lecture
room of the Institute of Insight. The red suitcase had concealed the wooden plate on the prop
table from the eyes of most of the students sitting on the right side of the room, but a number
of those who could see it felt they had caught a glimpse of something. Of just what they weren't
sure at first, or perhaps they preferred not to say.

Perrie and Dexter, however, after getting over their first shock, had no such doubts. Perrie,
voice vibrant with excitement, answered the questions flung at her from across the room, giving
a detailed description of the ham sandwich which had appeared out of nowhere on the polished
little table and stayed there for an incredible instant before it vanished. Dexter Jones, his
usually impassive face glowing and animated, laughing, confirmed the description on every point.

On the opposite side of the room, Eleanor Folsom, surrounded by her own group of questioners,
was also having her hour of triumph, in the warmth of which a trace of bitterness that her
first report of the phenomenon had been shrugged off by everyone--even, in a way, by Dr. Al--gradually
dissolved.

Dr. Al himself, Cavender thought, remained remarkably quiet at first, though in the excitement
this wasn't generally noticed. He might even have turned a little pale. However, before things
began to slow down he had himself well in hand again. Calling the group to a semblance of order,
he began smilingly to ask specific questions. The witnesses on the right side of the room seemed
somewhat more certain now of what they had observed.

Dr. Ormond looked over at Cavender.

"And you, Wally?" he asked. "You were sitting rather far back, to be sure--"

Cavender smiled and shrugged.

"Sorry, Dr. Al. I just wasn't looking in that direction at the moment. The first suggestion
I had that anything unusual was going on was when Perrie let out that wild squawk."

There was general laughter. Perrie grinned and flushed.

"Well, I'd have liked to hear your squawk," she told Cavender, "if you'd seen a miracle happen
right before your nose!"

"Not a miracle, Perrie," Ormond said gently. "We must remember that. We are working here with
natural forces which produce natural phenomena. Insufficiently understood phenomena, perhaps,
but never miraculous ones. Now, how closely did this materialization appear to conform to the
subjective group image we had decided on for our exercise?"

"Well, I could only see it, of course, Dr. Al. But as far as I saw it, it was exactly what
we'd ... no, wait!" Perrie frowned, wrinkling her nose. "There was something added!" She giggled.
"At least, I don't remember anyone saying we should imagine the sandwich wrapped in a paper
napkin!"

Across the room, a woman's voice said breathlessly, "Oh! A green paper napkin, Perrie?"

Perrie looked around, surprised. "Yes, it was, Mavis."

Mavis Greenfield hesitated, said with a nervous little laugh, "I suppose I did that. I added
a green napkin after we started the exercise." Her voice quavered for an instant. "I thought
the image looked neater that way." She looked appealingly at the students around her. "This
is really incredible, isn't it."

They gave her vague smiles. They were plainly still floating on a cloud of collective achievement--if
they hadn't created that sandwich, there could have been nothing to see!

It seemed to Cavender that Dr. Ormond's face showed a flicker of strain when he heard Mavis'
explanation. But he couldn't be sure because the expression--if it had been there--was smoothed
away at once. Ormond cleared his throat, said firmly and somewhat chidingly. "No, not incredible,
Mavis! Although--"

He turned on his smile. "My friends, I must admit that you have surprised me! Very pleasantly,
of course. But what happened here is something I considered to be only a very remote possibility
tonight. You are truly more advanced than I'd realized.

"For note this. If even one of you had been lagging behind the others, if there had been any
unevenness in the concentration each gave to the exercise tonight, this materialization simply
could not have occurred! And that fact forces me now to a very important decision."

He went over to the prop table, took the suitcase from it. "Mavis," he said gravely, "you may
put away these other devices. We will have no further need for them in this group! Dexter,
move the table to the center of the room for me, please."

He waited while his instructions were hastily carried out, then laid the suitcase on the table,
drew up a chair and sat down. The buzz of excited conversation among the students hushed. They
stared at him in anticipatory silence. It appeared that the evening's surprises were not yet
over--and they were ready for anything now!

       *       *       *       *       *

"There is a point," Dr. Ormond began in a solemn voice, riveting their eager attention on him,
"a point in the orderly advance towards Total Insight at which further progress becomes greatly
simplified and accelerated, because the student has now developed the capability to augment
his personal efforts by the use of certain instruments."

Cavender thoughtfully reached inside his coat, brought out a cigarette case, opened it and
slowly put a cigarette to his lips. About to flick on a lighter, he saw Ruben Jeffries watching
him with an expression of disapproval from across the aisle. Jeffries shook his head, indicated
the NO SMOKING sign on the wall. Cavender nodded, smiling a rueful apology for his absent-mindedness,
and returned the cigarette to its case. He shoved his hands into his trousers pockets, slouched
back in the chair.

"I have told you," Ormond was saying, "that the contributions many of you so generously made
to the Institute were needed for and being absorbed by vital research. Tonight I had intended
to give you a first inkling of what that research was accomplishing." He tapped the suitcase
on the table before him. "In there is an instrument of the kind I have mentioned. The beneficial
forces of the Cosmos are harnessed by it, flow through it. And I believe I can say that my
efforts in recent months have produces the most effective such device ever seen...."

"Dr. Al," Mrs. Folsom interrupted firmly, "I think you should let them know how the instrument
cured my heart condition."

Faces shifted toward her, then back to Dr. Al. The middle-aged majority of the students pricked
their ears. For each of them, conscious of the years of increasingly uncertain health to come,
Mrs. Folsom's words contained a personal implication, one that hit home. But in spite of the
vindication of her claim to have seen a materialized ham sandwich, they weren't quite ready
to trust her about this.

Dr. Ormond's face was grave.

"Eleanor," he said reprovingly, "that was letting the cat out of the bag, wasn't it? I hadn't
intended to discuss that part of the matter just yet."

He hesitated, frowning, tapping the table top lightly with his knuckles. Mrs. Folsom looked
unabashed. She had produced another sensation and knew it.

"Since it was mentioned," Ormond said with deliberation at last, "it would be unfair not to
tell you, at least in brief, the facts to which Eleanor was alluding. Very well then--Eleanor
has served during the past several weeks as the subject of certain experiments connected with
this instrument. She reports that after her first use of it, her periodically recurring heart
problem ceased to trouble her."

Mrs. Folsom smiled, nodded vigorously. "I have not," she announced, "had one single touch of
pain or dizziness in all this time!"

"But one should, of course," Dr. Ormond added objectively, "hesitate to use the word 'cure'
under such circumstances."

In the front row someone asked, "Dr. Al, will the instrument heal ... well, other physical
conditions?"

Ormond looked at the speaker with dignity. "John, the instrument does, and is supposed to do,
one thing. Providing, as I've said, that the student working with it has attained a certain
minimum level of Insight, it greatly accelerates his progress towards Total Insight. Very greatly!

"Now, as I have implied before: as one approaches the goal of Total Insight, the ailments and
diseases which commonly afflict humanity simply disappear. Unfortunately, I am not yet free
to show you proof for this, although I have the proof and believe it will not be long before
it can be revealed at least to the members of this group. For this reason, I have preferred
not to say too much on the point.... Yes, Reuben? You have a question?"

"Two questions, Dr. Al," Reuben Jeffries said. "First, is it your opinion that our group has
now reached the minimum level of Insight that makes it possible to work with those instruments?"

Ormond nodded emphatically. "Yes, it has. After tonight's occurrence there is no further question
about that."

"Then," Jeffries said, "my second question is simply--when do we start?"

There was laughter, a scattering of applause. Ormond smiled, said, "An excellent question,
Reuben! The answer is that a number of you will start immediately.

"A limited quantity of the instruments--fifteen, I believe--are available now on the premises,
stored in my office. Within a few weeks I will have enough on hand to supply as many of you
as wish to speed up their progress by this method. Since the group's contributions paid my
research expenses, I cannot in justice ask more from you individually now than the actual cost
in material and labor for each instrument. The figure ... I have it somewhere ... oh, yes!"
Ormond pulled a notebook from his pocket, consulted it, looked up and said, mildly, "Twelve
hundred dollars will be adequate, I think."

Cavender's lips twitched sardonically. Three or four of the group might have flinched inwardly
at the price tag, but on the whole they were simply too well heeled to give such a detail another
thought. Checkbooks were coming hurriedly into sight all around the lecture room. Reuben Jeffries,
unfolding his, announced, "Dr. Al, I'm taking one of the fifteen."

Half the students turned indignantly to stare at him. "Now wait a minute, Reuben!" someone
said. "That isn't fair! It's obvious there aren't enough to go around."

Jeffries smiled at him. "That's why I spoke up, Warren!" He appealed to Ormond. "How about
it, Dr. Al?"

Ormond observed judiciously, "It seems fair enough to me. Eleanor, of course, is retaining
the instrument with which she has been working. As for the rest of you--first come, first served,
you know! If others would like to have Mavis put down their names...."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a brief hubbub as this suggestion was acted on. Mavis, Dexter Jones and Perrie Rochelle
then went to the office to get the instruments, while Dr. Ormond consoled the students who
had found themselves left out. It would be merely a matter of days before the new instruments
began to come in ... and yes, they could leave their checks in advance. When he suggested tactfully
that financial arrangements could be made if necessary, the less affluent also brightened up.

Fifteen identical red alligator-hide suitcases appeared and were lined up beside Ormond's table.
He announced that a preliminary demonstration with the instrument would be made as soon as
those on hand had been distributed. Mavis Greenfield, standing beside him, began to read off
the names she had taken down.

Reuben Jeffries was the fifth to come up to the table, hand Ormond his check and receive a
suitcase from the secretary. Then Cavender got unhurriedly to his feet.

"Dr. Ormond," he said, loudly enough to center the attention of everyone in the room on him,
"may I have the floor for a moment?"

Ormond appeared surprised, then startled. His glance went up to Reuben Jeffries, still standing
stolidly beside him, and his face slowly whitened.

"Why ... well, yes, Wally." His voice seemed unsteady. "What's on your mind?"

Cavender faced the right side of the room and the questioning faces turned towards him.

"My name, as you know," he told the advanced students, "is Wallace Cavender. What you haven't
known so far is that I am a police detective, rank of lieutenant, currently attached to the
police force of this city and in temporary charge of its bunco squad."

He shifted his gaze towards the front of the room. Ormond's eyes met his for a moment, then
dropped.

"Dr. Ormond," Cavender said, "you're under arrest. The immediate charge, let's say, is practicing
medicine without a license. Don't worry about whether we can make it stick or not. We'll have
three or four others worked up by the time we get you downtown."

For a moment, there was a shocked, frozen stillness in the lecture room. Dr. Ormond's hand
began to move out quietly towards the checks lying on the table before him. Reuben Jeffries'
big hand got there first.

"I'll take care of these for now, Dr. Al," Jeffries said with a friendly smile. "The lieutenant
thinks he wants them."

       *       *       *       *       *

Not much more than thirty minutes later, Cavender unlocked the door to Dr. Ormond's private
office, went inside, leaving the door open behind him, and sat down at Ormond's desk. He rubbed
his aching eyes, yawned, lit a cigarette, looked about in vain for an ashtray, finally emptied
a small dish of paper clips on the desk and placed the dish conveniently close to him.

There had been an indignant uproar about Dr. Al's arrest for a while, but it ended abruptly
when uniformed policemen appeared in the two exit doors and the sobering thought struck the
students that any publicity given the matter could make them look personally ridiculous and
do damage to their business and social standing.

Cavender had calmed their fears. It was conceivable, he said, that the district attorney's
office would wish to confer with some of them privately, in connection with charges to be brought
against William Fitzgerald Grady--which, so far as the police had been able to establish, was
Dr. Ormond's real name. However, their association with the Institute of Insight would not
be made public, and any proceedings would be carried out with the discretion that could be
fully expected by blameless citizens of their status in the community.

They were fortunate, Cavender went on, in another respect. Probably none of them had been aware
of just how much Grady had milked from the group chiefly through quiet private contributions
and donations during the two years he was running the Institute. The sum came to better than
two hundred thousand dollars. Grady naturally had wasted none of this in "research" and he
was not a spendthrift in other ways. Cavender was, therefore, happy to say that around two
thirds of this money was known to be still intact in various bank accounts, and that it would
be restored eventually to the generous but misled donors.

Dr. Al's ex-students were beginning to look both chastened and very much relieved. Cavender
briefly covered a few more points to eliminate remaining doubts. He touched on Grady's early
record as a confidence man and blackmailer, mentioned the two terms he had spent in prison
and the fact that for the last eighteen years he had confined himself to operations like the
Institute of Insight where risks were less. The profits, if anything, had been higher because
Grady had learned that it paid off, in the long run, to deal exclusively with wealthy citizens
and he was endowed with the kind of personality needed to overcome the caution natural to that
class. As for the unusual experiences about which some of them might be now thinking, these,
Cavender concluded, should be considered in the light of the fact that Grady had made his living
at one time as a stage magician and hypnotist, working effectively both with and without trained
accomplices.

The lecture had gone over very well, as he'd known it would. The ex-students left for their
homes, a subdued and shaken group, grateful for having been rescued from an evil man's toils.
Even Mrs. Folsom, who had announced at one point that she believed she had a heart attack coming
on, recovered sufficiently to thank Cavender and assure him that in future she would take her
problems only to a reliable physician.

       *       *       *       *       *

Footsteps were coming down the short hall from the back of the building. Then Reuben Jeffries'
voice said, "Go into the office. The lieutenant's waiting for you there."

Cavender stubbed out his cigarette as Dexter Jones, Perrie Rochelle and Mavis Greenfield filed
into the office. Jeffries closed the door behind them from the hall and went off.

"Sit down," Cavender said, lighting a fresh cigarette.

They selected chairs and settled down stiffly, facing him. All three looked anxious and pale;
and Perrie's face was tear-stained.

Cavender said, "I suppose you've been wondering why I had Sergeant Jeffries tell you three
to stay behind."

Perrie began, her eyes and voice rather wild, "Mr. Cavender ... Lieutenant Cavender...."

"Either will do," Cavender said.

"Mr. Cavender, I swear you're wrong! We didn't have anything to do with Dr. Al's ... Mr. Grady's
cheating those people! At least, I didn't. I swear it!"

"I didn't say you had anything to do with it, Perrie," Cavender remarked. "Personally I think
none of you had anything to do with it. Not voluntarily, at any rate."

He could almost feel them go limp with relief. He waited. After a second or two, Perrie's eyes
got the wild look back. "But...."

"Yes?" Cavender asked.

Perrie glanced at Dexter Jones, at Mavis.

"But then what did happen?" she asked bewilderedly, of the other two as much as of Cavender.
"Mr. Cavender, I saw something appear on that plate! I know it did. It was a sandwich. It looked
perfectly natural. I don't think it could have possibly been something Mr. Grady did with mirrors.
And how could it have had the paper napkin Mavis had just been thinking about wrapped around
it, unless...."

"Unless it actually was a materialization of a mental image you'd created between you?" Cavender
said. "Now settle back and relax, Perrie. There's a more reasonable explanation for what happened
tonight than that."

He waited a moment, went on. "Grady's one real interest is money and since none of you have
any to speak of, his interest in you was that you could help him get it. Perrie and Dexter
showed some genuine talent to start with, in the line of guessing what card somebody was thinking
about and the like. It's not too unusual an ability, and in itself it wasn't too useful to Grady.

"But he worked on your interest in the subject. All the other students, the paying students,
had to lose was a sizable amount of cash ... with the exception of Mrs. Folsom who's been the
next thing to a flip for years anyway. She was in danger. And you three stood a good chance
of letting Grady wreck your lives. I said he's a competent hypnotist. He is. Also a completely
ruthless one."

He looked at Mavis. "As far as I know, Mavis, you haven't ever demonstrated that you have any
interesting extrasensory talents like Dexter's and Perrie's. Rather the contrary. Right?"

She nodded, her eyes huge.

"I've always tested negative. Way down negative. That's why I was really rather shocked when
that.... Of course, I've always been fascinated by such things. And he insisted it would show
up in me sometime."

"And," Cavender said, "several times a week you had special little training sessions with him,
just as his two star pupils here did, to help it show up. You were another perfect stooge,
from Grady's point of view. Well, what it amounts to is that Grady was preparing to make his
big final killing off this group before he disappeared from the city. He would have collected
close to thirty thousand dollars tonight, and probably twice as much again within the next
month or so before any of the students began to suspect seriously that Dr. Al's instruments
could be the meaningless contraptions they are.

"You three have been hypnotically conditioned to a fare-you-well in those little private sessions
you've had with him. During the past week you were set up for the role you were to play tonight.
When you got your cue--at a guess it was Mrs. Folsom's claim that she'd seen the ham sandwich
materialize--you started seeing, saying, acting, and thinking exactly as you'd been told to
see, say, act, and think. There's no more mystery about it than that. And in my opinion you're
three extremely fortunate young people in that we were ready to move in on Grady when we were."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was silence for a moment. Then Perrie Rochelle said hesitantly, "Then Mrs. Folsom...."

"Mrs. Folsom," Cavender said, "has also enjoyed the benefits of many private sessions with
Grady. She, of course, was additionally paying very handsomely for them. Tonight, she reported
seeing what she'd been told to report seeing, to set off the hypnotic chain reaction."

"But," Perrie said, "she said her heart attacks stopped after she started using the instrument.
I really don't see how that could have been just her imagination?"

"Very easily," Cavender said. "I've talked with her physician. Mrs. Folsom belongs to a not
uncommon type of people whose tickers are as sound as yours or mine, but who are convinced
they have a serious heart ailment and can dish up symptoms impressive enough to fool anyone
but an informed professional. They can stop dishing them up just as readily if they think they've
been cured." He smiled faintly. "You look as if you might be finally convinced, Perrie."

She nodded. "I ... yes, I guess so. I guess I am."

"All right," Cavender said. He stood up. "You three can run along then. You won't be officially
involved in this matter, and no one's going to bother you. If you want to go on playing around
with E.S.P. and so forth, that's your business. But I trust that in future you'll have the
good sense to keep away from characters like Grady. Periods of confusion, chronic nightmares--even
chronic headaches--are a good sign you're asking for bad trouble in that area."

They thanked him, started out of the office in obvious relief. At the door, Perrie Rochelle
hesitated, looked back.

"Mr. Cavender...."

"Yes?"

"You don't think I ... I need...."

"Psychiatric help? No. But I understand," Cavender said, "that you have a sister in Maine who's
been wanting you to spend the summer with her. I think that's a fine idea! A month or two of
sun and salt water is exactly what you can use to drive the last of this nonsense out of your
mind again. So good night to the three of you, and good luck!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Cavender snapped the top of the squat little thermos flask back in place and restored it to
the glove compartment of Jeffries' car. He brushed a few crumbs from the knees of his trousers
and settled back in the seat, discovering he no longer felt nearly as tired and washed out
as he had been an hour ago in the lecture room. A few cups of coffee and a little nourishment
could do wonders for a man, even at the tail end of a week of hard work.

The last light in the Institute building across the street went out and Cavender heard the
click of the front door. The bulky figure of Detective Sergeant Reuben Jeffries stood silhouetted
for a moment in the street lights on the entrance steps. Then Jeffries came down the steps
and crossed the street to the car.

"All done?" Cavender asked.

"All done," Jeffries said through the window. He opened the door, eased himself in behind the
wheel and closed the door.

"They took Grady away by the back entrance," he told Cavender. "The records in his files ...
he wasn't keeping much, of course ... and the stuff in the safe and those instruments went
along with him. He was very co-operative. He's had a real scare."

Cavender grunted. "He'll get over it."

Jeffries hesitated, said, "I'm something of a Johnny-come-lately in this line of work, you
know. I'd be interested in hearing how it's handled from here on."

"In this case it will be pretty well standard procedure," Cavender said. "Tomorrow around noon
I'll have Grady brought in to see me. I'll be in a curt and bitter mood--the frustrated honest
cop. I'll tell him he's in luck. The D. A.'s office has informed me that because of the important
names involved in this fraud case, and because all but around forty thousand dollars of the
money he collected in this town have been recovered, they've decided not to prosecute. He'll
have till midnight to clear out. If he ever shows up again, he gets the book."

"Why leave him the forty thousand?" Jeffries asked. "I understood they know darn well where
it's stashed."

Cavender shrugged. "The man's put in two years of work, Reuben. If we clean him, he might get
discouraged enough to get out of the racket and try something else. As it is, he'll have something
like the Institute of Insight going again in another city three months from now. In an area
that hasn't been cropped over recently. He's good in that line ... one of the best, in fact."

Jeffries thoughtfully started the car, pulled out from the curb. Halfway down the block, he
remarked, "You gave me the go-ahead sign with the cigarette right after the Greenfield girl
claimed she'd put the paper napkin into that image. Does that mean you finally came to a decision
about her?"

"Uh-huh."

Jeffries glanced over at him, asked, "Is there any secret about how you're able to spot them?"

"No ... except that I don't know. If I could describe to anyone how to go about it, we might
have our work cut in half. But I can't, and neither can any other spotter. It's simply a long,
tedious process of staying in contact with people you have some reason to suspect of being
the genuine article. If they are, you know it eventually. But if it weren't that men with Grady's
type of personality attract them somehow from ten miles around, we'd have no practical means
at present of screening prospects out of the general population. You can't distinguish one
of them from anyone else if he's just walking past you on the street."

Jeffries brought the car to a halt at a stop light.

"That's about the way I'd heard it," he acknowledged. "What about negative spotting? Is there
a chance there might be an undiscovered latent left among our recent fellow students?"

"No chance at all," Cavender said. "The process works both ways. If they aren't, you also know
it eventually--and I was sure of everyone but Greenfield over three weeks ago. She's got as
tough a set of obscuring defenses as I've ever worked against. But after the jolt she got tonight,
she came through clear immediately."

The light changed and the car started up. Jeffries asked, "You feel both of them can be rehabilitated?"

"Definitely," Cavender said. "Another three months of Grady's pseudoyoga might have ruined
them for good. But give them around a year to settle out and they'll be all right. Then they'll
get the call. It's been worth the trouble. Jones is good medium grade--and that Greenfield!
She'll be a powerhouse before she's half developed. Easily the most promising prospect I've
come across in six years."

"You're just as certain about Perrie Rochelle?"

"Uh-huh. Protopsi--fairly typical. She's developed as far as she ever will. It would be a complete
waste of time to call her. You can't train something that just isn't there."

Jeffries grunted. "Never make a mistake, eh?"

Cavender yawned, smiled. "Never have yet, Reuben! Not in that area."

"How did you explain the sandwich to them--and Greenfield's napkin? They couldn't have bought
your stage magic idea."

"No. Told them those were Dr. Al's posthypnotic suggestions. It's the other standard rationalization."

       *       *       *       *       *

They drove on in silence for a while. Then Jeffries cleared his throat.

"Incidentally," he said. "I should apologize for the slip with the sandwich, even though it
turned out to our advantage. I can't quite explain it. I was thinking of other matters at the
moment, and I suppose I...."

Cavender, who had been gazing drowsily through the windshield, shook his head.

"As you say, it turned out very well, Reuben. Aside from putting the first crack in Mavis Greenfield's
defenses, it shook up Dr. Al to the point where he decided to collect as much as he could tonight,
cash the checks, and clear out. So he set himself up for the pinch. We probably gained as much
as three or four weeks on both counts."

Jeffries nodded. "I realize that. But...."

"Well, you'd have no reason to blame yourself for the slip in any case," Cavender went on.
"The fact is I'd been so confoundedly busy all afternoon and evening, I forgot to take time
out for dinner. When that sandwich was being described in those mouth-watering terms, I realized
I was really ravenous. At the same time I was fighting off sleep. Between the two, I went completely
off guard for a moment, and it simply happened!"

He grinned. "As described, by the way, it was a terrific sandwich. That group had real imagination!"
He hesitated, then put out his hand, palm up, before him. "As a matter of fact, just talking
about it again seems to be putting me in a mood for seconds...."

Something shimmered for an instant in the dim air wrapped in its green tissue napkin, a second
ham sandwich appeared.

       *       *       *       *       *