But, after all, it was not so much the defective works that really mattered as the defective
garrison behind them. English-speaking civilians who have written about Louisbourg have sometimes
taken partial account of the ordinary Frenchman's repugnance to oversea duty in time of peace
and of the little worth of hireling foreigners in time of war. But they have always ignored
that steady drip, drip, drip of deterioration which reduces the efficiency of every garrison
condemned to service in remote and thoroughly uncongenial countries. Louisbourg was remote,
weeks away from exchanges with Quebec, months from exchanges with any part of France or Switzerland.
And what other foreign station could have been more thoroughly uncongenial, except, perhaps,
a convict station in the tropics? Bad quarters were endurable in Paris or even in the provinces,
where five minutes' walk would take one into something pleasanter. Bad fortifications would
inspire less apprehension anywhere in France, where there was at least an army always ready
to take the field. But cold, cramped quarters in foggy little Louisbourg, between the estranging
sea and an uncouth land of rock, bog, sand, and scrubby vegetation, made all the world of difference
in the soldier's eyes. Add to this his want of faith in works which he saw being scamped by
rascally contractors, and we can begin to understand why the general attitude of town and garrison
alike was one of 'Here to-day and gone to-morrow.'

CHAPTER II

THE SEA LINK LOST 1745

Rome would not rest till she had ruined Carthage. Britain would not rest till she had seen
Dunkirk demolished. New England would not rest till she had taken Louisbourg.

Louisbourg was unique in all America, and that was its undoing. It was the one sentinel beside
the gateway to New France; therefore it ought to be taken before Quebec and Canada were attacked.
It was the one corsair lying in perpetual wait beside the British lines of seaborne trade;
therefore it must be taken before British shipping could be safe. It was the one French sea
link between the Old World and the New; therefore its breaking was of supreme importance. It
was the one real fortress ever heard of in America, and it was in absolutely alien hands; therefore,
so ran New England logic, it was most offensive to all true Britons, New Englanders, and Puritans;
to all rivals in smuggling, trade, and privateering; and to all right-thinking people generally.

The weakness of Louisbourg was very welcome news to energetic Massachusetts. In 1744, when
Frederick the Great had begun the War of the Austrian Succession and France had taken arms
against Great Britain, du Quesnel, the governor of Louisbourg, who had received the intelligence
of these events some weeks before the alert Bostonians, at once decided to win credit by striking
the first blow. He was much disliked in Louisbourg. He drank hard, cursed his subordinates
when in his cups, and set the whole place by the ears. Moreover, many of those under him wished
to avoid giving the British Americans any provocation, in the hope that the war might be confined
to Europe. But none dared to refuse a legal and positive order. So in May his expedition left
for Canso, where there was a little home-made British fort on the strait between Cape Breton
and the mainland of Nova Scotia. The eighty fishermen in Canso surrendered to du Vivier, the
French commander, who sent them on to Boston, after burning their fort to the ground. Elated
by this somewhat absurd success, and strengthened by nearly a hundred regulars and four hundred
Indians, who raised his total force to at least a thousand men, du Vivier next proceeded against
Annapolis on the west side of Nova Scotia. But Mascarene, the British commander there, stood
fast on his defence, though his men were few and his means small. The Acadian French in the
vicinity were afraid to join du Vivier openly. The siege dragged on. The British received a
slight reinforcement. The French did not. And in September du Vivier suddenly retired without
attempting an assault.

The burning of Canso and the attack on Annapolis stirred up the wrath of New England. A wild
enthusiast, William Vaughan, urged Governor Shirley of Massachusetts to make an immediate counter-attack.
Shirley was an English lawyer, good at his own work, but very anxious to become famous as a
conqueror. He lent a willing ear to Vaughan, and astounded the General Court of Massachusetts
on January 21, 1745, by first inducing the members to swear secrecy and then asking them to
consider a plan for a colonial expedition against Louisbourg. He and they were on very good
terms. But they were provincial, cautious, and naturally slow when it came to planning campaigns
and pledging their credit for what was then an enormous sum of money. Nor could they be blamed.
None of them knew much about armies and navies; most thought Louisbourg was a real transatlantic
Dunkirk; and all knew that they were quite insolvent already. Their joint committee of the
two Houses reported against the scheme; whereupon each House carried a secret adverse vote
by a large majority.

But, just before these votes were taken, a Puritan member from a country district wrestled
in what he thought confidential prayer with such loud ejaculations that an eavesdropper overheard
him and passed the secret on. Of course the momentous news at once began to run like wildfire
through the province. Still, the 'Noes had it,' both in the country and the House. Shirley
was dejected and in doubt what to do next. But James Gibson, the merchant militiaman, suddenly
hit on the idea of getting up a petition among the business community. The result surpassed
every expectation. All the merchants were eager for attack. Louisbourg embodied everything
they feared and hated: interference with seaborne commerce, rank popery, French domination,
trouble with Acadia, and the chance of being themselves attacked. When the petition was presented
to both Houses, the whole subject was again debated. Provincial insolvency and the absence
of either a fleet or an army were urged by the Opposition. But the fighting party put forth
all their strength and pleaded that delay meant reinforcements for Louisbourg and a good chance
lost for ever. The vote would have been a tie if a member of the Opposition had not slipped
and broken his leg as he was hurrying down to the House. Once the decision had been reached,
however, all did their best to ensure success.

Shirley wrote to his brother governors. Vaughan galloped off post-haste to New Hampshire with
the first official letter. Gibson led the merchants in local military zeal. The result was
that Massachusetts, which then included Maine, raised over 3,000 men, while New Hampshire and
Connecticut raised about 500 each. Rhode Island concurred, but ungraciously and ineffectually
late. She nursed two grudges against Massachusetts, one about the undeniably harsh treatment
meted out to her great founder, Roger Williams, the other about that most fruitful source of
inter-provincial mischief-making, a disputed boundary. New York lent some guns, which proved
very useful. The remaining colonies did nothing.

Shirley's choice of a commander-in-chief wisely fell on William Pepperrell. There was no military
leader in the whole of New England. So the next most suitable man was the civilian who best
combined the necessary qualities of good sense, sound knowledge of men and affairs, firmness,
diplomacy, and popularity. Popularity was essential, because all the men were volunteers. Pepperrell,
who answered every reasonable test, went through the campaign with flying colours and came
out of it as the first and only baronet of Massachusetts. He was commissioned as major-general
by all three contributing provinces, since none of them recognized any common authority except
that of the crown. He was ably seconded by many leading men who, if not trained soldiers, were
at least accustomed to the organization of public life; for in those days the word politician
had not become a term of reproach in America, and the people were often represented by men
of the highest character.

The financial difficulty was overcome by issuing letters of credit, which were afterwards redeemed
by the Imperial government, at a total cost of nearly a quarter of a million sterling. There
was no time and there were no means to change the militia into an army. But many compensating
advantages helped to make up for its deficiencies. The men volunteered eagerly. They were all
very keen to fight the French. Most of them understood the individual use of firearms. Many
of them had been to sea and had learned to work together as a crew. Nearly all of them had
the handiness then required for life in a new country. And, what with conviction and what with
prejudice, they were also quite disposed to look upon the expedition as a sort of Crusade against
idolatrous papists, and therefore as a very proper climax to the Great Awakening which had
recently roused New England to the heights of religious zealotry under the leadership of the
famous George Whitefield himself.

Strangely enough, neither Whitefield nor his friend Pepperrell was at all sure that the expedition
was a wise or even a godly venture. Whitefield warned Pepperrell that he would be envied if
he succeeded and abused if he failed. The Reverend Thomas Prince openly regretted the change
of enemy. 'The Heavenly shower is over. From fighting the Devil they needs must turn to fighting
the French.' But Parson Moody, most truculent of Puritans, had no doubts whatever. The French,
the pope, and the Devil were all one to him; and when he embarked as senior chaplain he took
a hatchet with which to break down the graven images of Louisbourg. In the end Whitefield warmed
up enough to give the expedition its official motto: 'Nil desperandum Christo Duce.' The 'Never
Despair' heartened the worldlings. The 'Christ our Commander' appealed to the 'Great Awakened.'
And the whole saying committed him to nothing particular concerning the issue at stake.

The three militia contingents numbered 4,270 men. The three naval contingents had 13 vessels
mounting 216 guns. In addition to both these forces there were the transports, which had considerable
crews. But all these together, if caught on the open sea, would be no match for a few regular
men-of-war. New England had no navy, though the New Englanders had enjoyed a good deal of experience
in minor privateering against the Spaniards during the last few years, as well as a certain
amount of downright piracy in time of peace, whenever a Frenchman or a Spaniard could be safely
taken at a disadvantage. So Shirley asked Commodore Warren, commanding the North American station,
to lend his aid. Warren had married an American and was very well disposed towards the colonists.
But, having no orders from England, he at first felt obliged to refuse. His wait for orders
made him nearly three weeks later than the New Englanders in arriving at the rendezvous. But
this delay, due to no fault of his own, was really an advantage to the New England militia,
who thus had a chance of learning a little more drill and discipline. His four vessels carried
180 guns and 1,150 men at full strength. The thirteen Provincial armed vessels carried more
than 1,000 men. No exact returns were ever made out for the transports. But as '68 lay at anchor'
in Canso harbour, while others 'came dropping in from day to day,' as there were 4,270 militiamen
on board, in addition to all the stores, and as the French counted '96 transports' making for
Gabarus Bay, there could not have been less than 100, while the crews could hardly have mustered
less than an average of 20 men each. The grand total, at the beginning of the expedition, could
not, therefore, have been less than 8,000 men, of all sorts put together--over 4,000 American
Provincial militia, over 1,000 men of the Royal Navy, quite 1,000 men aboard the Provincial
fighting vessels, and at least 2,000 more as crews to work the transports.

May 1, the first Sunday the Provincials spent at Canso, was a day of great and multifarious
activity, both sacred and profane. Parson Moody, the same who had taken the war-path with his
iconoclastic hatchet, delivered a tremendous philippic from the text, 'Thy people shall be
willing in the day of Thy power.' Luckily for his congregation he had the voice of a Stentor,
as there were several mundane competitors in an adjoining field, each bawling the word of command
at the full pitch of his lungs. A conscientious diarist, though full of sabbatarian zeal, was
fain to admit that 'Severall sorts of Busnesses was a-Going on: Sum a-Exercising, Sum a-Hearing
o' the Preaching.'

On May 5 Warren sailed into Canso. The Provincials thought the date of his arrival a very happy
omen, as it fell on what was then, according to the Old Style calendar, St George's Day, April
23. After a conference with Pepperrell he hurried off to begin the blockade of Louisbourg.
A week later, May 21, the transports joined him there, and landed their militiamen for one
of the most eccentric sieges ever known.

While the British had been spending the first four months of 1745 in preparing 8,000 men, the
French authorities in Louisbourg, whose force was less than 2,000, had been wasting the same
precious time in ridiculous councils of war. It is a well-known saying that councils of war
never fight. But these Louisbourg councils did not even prepare to fight. The news from Boston
was not heeded. Worse yet, no attention was paid to the American scouting vessels, which had
been hovering off the coast for more than a month. The bibulous du Quesnel had died in October.
But his successor, du Chambon, was no better as a commandant. Perhaps the kindest thing to
say of du Chambon is that he was the foolish father of a knavish son--of that du Chambon de
Vergor who, in the next war, surrendered Fort Beausejour without a siege and left one sleepy
sentry to watch Wolfe's Cove the night before the Battle of the Plains.

It is true that du Chambon had succeeded to a thoroughly bad command. He had no naval force
whatever; and the military force had become worse instead of better. The mutiny in December
had left the 560 regulars in a very sullen frame of mind. They knew that acquisitive government
officials were cheating them out of their proper rations of bacon and beans. The officials
knew that the soldiers knew. And so suspicion and resentment grew strong between them. The
only other force was the militia, which, with certain exceptions, comprised every male inhabitant
of Cape Breton who could stand on two legs and hold a musket with both hands. There were boys
in their early teens and old men in their sixties. Nearly 1,800 ought to have been available.
But four or five hundred that might have been brought in never received their marching orders.
So the total combatants only amounted to some 1,900, of whom 1,350 were militia. The non-combatants
numbered nearly as many. The cramped hundred acres of imprisoned Louisbourg thus contained
almost 4,000 people--mutineers and militia, women and children, drones and other officials,
all huddled up together.

