At first the sittings should not be of longer duration than fifteen minutes, but it is important
they should take place regularly, every day if possible, and always at the same hour and in
the same place. By this method of procedure it will be found that a cumulative effect is produced
and success more speedily ensured. The reason is obvious. All actions tend to repeat themselves,
to become automatic, to pass from the purposive into the habitual, and hence the psychic faculties
will, if actuated at any set time and place, tend to bestir themselves towards the same end
as that to which they were first moved by the conscious will and intention of the seer.

Until definite and satisfactory results are obtained, not more than two persons should be present
at the sittings, and these should be in sympathy with the seer and each other. When the sitting
is over, it will be found agreeable and useful to discuss the results obtained; or if none
are elicited, the seer can give an account of his or her impressions and feelings during the
sitting. It will be interesting to note these experiences and to compare them from time to
time. The faculty of pure vision is like the latent seed-life.

THE VISION

Visions seen in the crystal are of two kinds, both of which may be conveyed to the perception
of the seer in two ways. The two kinds of visions are: 1, Direct visions; 2, Symbolic visions.
The first of these is a representation of scene or incident exactly as it will transpire, or
has already happened, either in relation to the seer, those sitting with him, or yet in relation
to public affairs. The second order of vision is a representation, by means of symbol, ideograph,
or other indirect means, of events similar to those conveyed by direct vision.

In most cases it will be found that answers, to questions take the form of symbols. But this
is not always so, as will appear from the following remarks concerning the manner in which
these impressions or visions are conveyed to the perception of the seer. In this form it becomes
an apperception rather than a perception, the consciousness receiving the impression of the
vision to be conveyed before it has had time to form and define itself in the crystal.

The direct vision is more generally found in association with the passive type of seer. It
is not usually so regular and constant as the symbolic vision, owing to the peculiarities of
the negative temperament.

The symbolical vision is more closely associated with the positive temperament. It has the
advantage of being more ready and constant in its manifestation than the direct vision, while
on the other hand it is frequently a matter of speculation as to what the symbolic vision may
portend.

The positive temperament, centripetal and forceful in its action, appears to throw off the
soul-images, afterwards going out towards them in a mood of speculative inquiry. The passive
temperament, however, centrifugal and sensitive, most frequently feels first and sees afterwards,
the visionary process being wholly devoid of speculation or mental activity. The one sees and
thinks, the other feels and sees that, in a word, is the distinction between the two temperaments.

