"On a sudden, to our great astonishment, all was silent again, oppressively silent; and, but
for the swell upon the seas, all still. The tornado had rushed by: that troop of Tartar horse,
having sacked the village, are departed, now in full retreat: the blackness and the fury are
beheld on our lee, hastening across the broad Atlantic to Cuba or Jamaica: and behold, a tranquil
temperate sky, a kindly rolling sea, a favouring breeze, and--not a sail, but some slight jury-rig,
to catch it.

"Many days we drifted like a log upon the wave; provisions running short, and water--water
under tropical suns--scantily dealt out in tea-cups. Then, poor old Mackie's health gave way;
and I dreaded for her death: one living witness is worth a cart-load of cold documents. So
I nursed and watched her constantly: till the foolish folks on board began to say I was her
son: ah! me, for your sake I wish it had been so.

"And at length, just as some among the sailors were hinting at a mutiny for spirits, and our
last case of Gamble's meat was opened for the sick, our look-out on the jury-mast gave the
welcome note of 'Land!' and soon, to us on deck, the heights of St. Helena rose above the sea.
Towed in by friendly aid, here we are, then, precious Emily, refitting: and, as it must be
a week yet before we can be ready, I have taken my old woman to a lodging upon land, and rejoice
(what have I to do with joy?) to see her speedily recovering."

The remainder of Charles's long letter is so stupid, so gloomy, so loving, and so little to
the purpose, that I take an editor's privilege, and omit it altogether. Of course he was coming
home again, as soon as the Samarang and Jeanie Mackie would permit.

CHAPTER XXV.

TRIALS.

THE general recovered; as slowly, indeed, as Emily had, but it is gratifying to add, as surely.
And now that loving couple might be seen, weakly creeping out together, when the day was finest:
tottering white December leaning on a sickly fragile May. There were no concealments now between
them, no reservings, and heart-stricken Emily heard from her repentant father's lips the story
of her birth: she was, he said, his own daughter by a native princess, the Begum Dowlia Burruckjutli.

A bitter--bitter truth was that: the destruction of all her hopes, pleasures, and affections.
It had now become to her a sin to love that dearest one of all things lovely on this earth:
duty, paramount and stern, commanded her, without a shadow of reprieve, to execute on herself
immediately the terrible sentence of banishing her own betrothed: nay, more, she must forget
him, erase his precious image from her heart, and never, never see that brother more. And Charles
must feel the same, and do the like; oh! sorrow, passing words! and their two commingled souls
must be violently wrenched apart; for such love in them were crime.

Dear children of affection--it is a dreadful lesson this for both of you; but most wise, most
needful--or the hand that guideth all things, never would have sent it. Know ye not for comfort,
that ye are of those to whom all things work together for good? Know ye not for counsel, that
the excess of love is an idolatry that must be blighted? It is well, children, it is well,
that ye should thus carry your wounded hearts for balm to the altar of God; it is well that
ye should bow in meekness to His will, in readiness to His wisdom. Ye are learning the lesson
speedily, as docile children should; and be assured of high reward from the Teacher who hath
set it you. Poor Charles! white and wan, thy cheek is grown transparent with anxiety, and thy
blue eye dim with hope deferred: poor Emmy, sick and weak, thou weariest Heaven with thy prayers,
and waterest thy couch with thy tears. Yet, a little while; this discipline is good: storm
and wind, frost and rushing rains, are as needful to the forest-tree as sun and gentle shower;
the root is strengthening, and its fibres spreading out: and loving still each other with the
best of human love, ye justly now have found out how to anchor all your strongest hopes, and
deepest thoughts, on Him who made you for himself. Who knoweth? wisely acquiescing in His will,
humbly trusting to His mercy, and bringing the holocaust of your inflamed affections as an
offering of duty to your God--who knoweth? Cannot He interpose? will He not befriend you? For
His arm is power, and His heart is love.

Days rolled on in dull monotony, and grew to weeks more slowly than before; earthly hopes had
been levelled with the dust; life had forgotten to be joyous: there was, indeed, the calm,
the peace, the resignation, the heavenly ante-past, and the soul-entrancing prayer; but human
life to Emily was flat, wearisome, and void; she felt like a nun, immolated as to this world:
even as Charles, too, had resolved to be an anchorite, a stern, hard, mortified man, who once
had feelings and affections. The rëaction in both those fond young hearts had even overstept
the golden mean: and Mercy interposed to make all right, and to bless them in each other once
again.

Only look at this billet-doux from Charles, just come in, and dated Plymouth:

"Huzzah--for Emily and England: huzzah for the land of freedom! no
secrets now--dear, dear old Jeanie Mackie has given me proofs positive:
all I have to wish is that she could move: but she is very ill; so, as
we touched here on the voyage up channel, I landed her and myself,
thinking to kiss, within a day, my darling Emmy. But I cannot get her
out of bed this morning, and dare not leave her: though an hour's delay
seems almost insupportable. If I possibly can manage it, I will bring
the dear old faithful creature, wrapped in blankets, by chaise
to-morrow. Tell my father all this: and say to him--he will understand,
perhaps, though you may not, my blessed girl--say to him, that 'he is
mistaken, and all are mistaken--you are not what they think you.' A
thousand kisses. Expect, then, on bright to-morrow to see your happy,
happy
                                                         "CHARLES."

"P.S. Hip! hip! hip!--huzzah!"

Dearest Emily had taken up the note with fears and trembling: she laid it down, as they that
reap in joy; and I never in my life saw any thing so beautiful as her eyes at that glad minute;
the smile through the tear, the light through the gloom, the verdure of high summer springing
through the Alpine snows, the mild and lustrous moon emerging from a baffled thunder-cloud.

And, although the general mournfully shook his head, distrustfully and despondingly; though
he only uttered, "Poor children--dear children--would to Heaven that it could be so;"--and
he, for one, was evidently innoculated, as before, with all the old thoughts of gloom, sadness,
and anxiety;--still Emily hoped--for Charles hoped--and Jeanie Mackie was so certain.

CHAPTER XXVI.

JULIAN. 

Even with such instruction she spent little time taking her own given and independent study.
During her beginning meal at the Palais Royal she was introduced to the Regent Voltaire, although
only a short time was her reign. The pasture-meadows, rich and rank, were alive with flocks and herds;
the blue sea lazily beat time, as, ticking out the seconds, it melodiously broke upon the sleeping
shore; the darkly-flowing Mullet swept sounding to the sea between its tortuous banks; and
upon that old high foot-path skirting the stream, now shady with hazels, and now flowery with
meadow-sweet, crept our chastened pair.

Just as they were nearing a short angle in the river, the spot where Charles had been preserved,
they noticed for the first time a rough-looking fisherman, who, unseen, had tracked their steps
some hundred yards; he had a tarpaulin over his shoulder, very unnecessarily, as it would seem,
on so fine and warm a day; and a slouching sou'-wester, worn askew, flapped across the strange
man's face.

He came on quickly, though cautiously, looking right and left; and Emily trembled on her guardian's
feeble arm. Yes--she is right; the fisherman approaches--she detects him through it all: and
now he scorns disguise; flinging off his cap and the tarpaulin, stands before them--Julian!

"So, sir--you tremble now, do you, gallant general: give me the girl." And he levelled at his
father one of those double-barrelled pistols, full-cock.

"Julian, my son, I forgive you, Julian; take my hand, boy."

"What--coward? now you can cringe, and fawn, eh? back with you!--the girl, I say." For poor
Emily, wild with fear, was clinging to that weak old man.

Julian levelled again; indeed, indeed it was only as a threat; but his hand shook with passion--the
weapon was full-cock, hair-triggered--shotted heavily as always--hark, hark!--And his father
fell upon the turf, covered with blood!

When a wicked man tampers with unintended crime, even accident falls out against him. Many
a one has richly merited death for many other sins, than that isolated, haply accidental one
which he has hanged for.

Julian, horror-stricken, pale and trembling, flew instinctively to help his father: but Emily
has circled him already with her arms; and listen, Julian--your dying father speaks to you.

"Boy, I forgive--I forgive: but--Emily, no, no, cannot, cannot be--Julian--she--she is your
sister!" and the old man swooned away, from loss of blood and the excitement of that awful scene.

Not a word in reply said that poor sinner, maddened with his life-long crimes, the fratricide
in will, the parricide in deed, and all for--a sister. But growing whiter as he stood, a marble
man with bristling hair, he slowly drew the other pistol from his pocket, put the muzzle to
his mouth, and, firing as he fell, leapt into the darkly-flowing Mullet!

The current, all too violent to sink in, and uncommissioned now to save, hurried its black
burden to the sea; and a crimson streak of gore marked the track of the suicide.

The old man was not dead; but a brace of bullets taking effect upon his feeble frame--one through
the shoulder, and another which had grazed his head--had been quite enough to make him seem
so. Forgetful of all but that dear sufferer, and totally ignorant of Julian's fate--for she
neither saw nor heard any thing, nor feared even for her own imminent peril, while her father
lay dying on the grass--Emily had torn off her scarf, and bound up, as well as she could, the
ghastly scored head and broken shoulder. She succeeded in staunching the blood--for no great
vessel had been severed--and so simple an application as grass dipped in water, proved to be
a good specific. Then, to her exceeding joy, those eyes opened again, and that dear tongue
faintly whispered--"Bless you."

Oh, that blessing! for it fell upon her heart: and fervently she knelt down there, and thanked
the Great Preserver.

And now, for friendly help; there is no one near: and it is growing dusk; and she dared not
leave him there alone one minute--for Julian--dreaded Julian, may return, and kill him. What
shall she do? How to get him home? Alas, alas! he may die where he is lying.

Hark, Emmy, hark! The shouts of happy children bursting out of school! See, dearest--see: here
they come homewards merrily from Oxton.

Thus, rewarded through the instrumentality of her own benevolence, help was speedily obtained;
and Mrs. Sainsbury's invalid-chair, hurried to the spot by an escort of indignant rustics,
soon conveyed the recovering patient to the comforts of his own home, and the appliances of
medical assistance.

CHAPTER XXVII.

CHARLES'S RETURN; AND MRS. MACKIE'S EXPLANATION.

AND now the happy day was come at length; that day formerly so hoped-for, latterly so feared,
but last of all, hailed with the joy that trembles at its own intensity. The very morning after
the sad occurrence it has just been my lot to chronicle--while the general was having his wounds
dressed, slight ones, happily, but still he was not safe, as inflammation might ensue--while
Mrs. Tracy was indulging in her third tumbler, mixed to whet her appetite for shrimps--and
while Emily was deciphering, for the forty thousandth time, Charles's sanguine billet-doux--lo!
a dusty chaise and smoking posters, and a sun-burnt young fellow springing out, and just upon
the stairs--they were locked in each other's arms!

Oh, the rapture of that instant! it can but happen once within a life. Ye that have loved,
remember such a meeting; and ye that never loved, conceive it if you can; for my pen hath little
skill to paint so bright a pleasure. It is to be all heart, all pulse, all sympathy, all spirit--but
the warm soft kiss, that rarified bloom of the Material.

How the sick old nurse got out, cased in many blankets; how she was bundled up stairs, and
deposited safely on a sofa, no poet is alive to sing: to those who would record the payment
of postillions, let me leave so sweet a theme.

The first fond greeting over, and those tumults of affection sobered down, Charles rejoiced
to find how lovingly the general met him; the kind and good old man fell upon his neck, as
the father in the parable. Many things were then to be made known: and many questions answered,
as best might be, about a mother and a brother; but well aware of all things ourselves, let
us be satisfied that Charles heard in due time all they had to tell him; though neither Emily
nor the general could explain what had become of Julian after that terrible encounter. In their
belief, he had fled for very life, thinking he had killed his father. Poor wretched man, thought
Charles--on that same spot, too, where he would have murdered me! And for his mother--why came
she not down eagerly and happily, as mothers ever do, to greet her long-lost son? Do not ask,
Charles; do not press the question. Think her ill, dying, dead--any thing but--drunken. He
ran to her room-door; but it was locked--luckily.

Now, Charles--now speedily to business; happy business that, if I may trust the lover's flushing
cheek, and Emily's radiant eyes; but a mournful one too, and a fearful, if I turn my glance
to that poor old man, wounded in body and stricken in mind--who waits to hear, in more despondency
than hope, what he knows to be the bitter truth--the truth that must be told, to the misery
of those dear children.

Faint and weak though she appeared, Jeanie Mackie's waning life spirited up for the occasion;
her dim eye kindled; her feeble frame was straight and strong; energy nerved her as she spoke;
this hour is the errand of her being. 

Over and above, I proclaim that all the rules, regulations, traditions, liberties, civil laws
and other measures to show loyalty shall be observed by all citizen of our kingdom irrespective of
their cast, creed, religion or sex.
 I am
only enabled to give a brief account of that important colloquy.

It appears, that when Captain Tracy's company was quartered to the west of the Gwalior, sent
thither to guard the Begum Dowlia against sundry of her disaffected subjects, a certain Lieutenant
James Stuart was one among those welcome brave allies. That our gallant Tracy was the beautiful
Begum's favourite soon became notorious to all; and not less so, that the Begum herself was
precisely in the same interesting situation as Mrs. James Stuart. The two ladies, Pagan and
Christian, were, technically speaking, running a race together. Like one who seizes a dog by the
ears is a passer-by who meddles in a quarrel not his own.---Proverbs 26:17
 His death proved
fatal also to that kind and faithful wife of his--a dark Italian lady of high family, whose
love for James had led her to follow him even into Central Hindoostan: she died in giving birth
to a babe; and Jeanie Mackie, the lieutenant's own foster-mother, who waited on his wife through
all their travels, assisted the poor orphan into this bleak world, and loved it as her own.

Two days after all this, the Begum herself had need of Mrs. Mackie: for it was prudent to conceal
some things, if she could, from certain Brahmins, who were to her what John Knox had erstwhile
been to Mary: and Jeanie Mackie, burdened with her little Amy Stuart, aided in the birth of
a female Tracy-Begum. So, the nurse tended both babes; and more than once had marvelled at
their general resemblance; Amy's mother looked out again from those dark eyes; there was not
a shade between the children.

Now, Mrs. Mackie perceived, in a very little while, how fond both Christian and Pagan appeared
of their own child; and how little notice was taken by any body of the poor Scotch gentleman's
orphan. Accordingly, with a view to give her favourite all worldly advantages, she adroitly
changed the children; and, while she was still kind and motherly to the little Tracy-Begum,
she had the satisfaction to see her pet supposititiously brought up in all the splendours of
an Eastern court.

Years wore away, for Captain Tracy was quite happy, the Begum being a fine showy woman, and
the pretty child his playmate and pastime: so he never cared to stir from his rich quarters,
till the company's orders forced him: and then Puttymuddyfudgepoor hailed him accumulatively
both major and colonel. 

He has found that a worker might be astounded if told that the shell of Pholas could be used
to pierce calcareous stone. However, he has done this very thing, and he believes that this
substantiates the notion that an animal can do it as well. He has now submitted to the Academie
examples of mica and gneiss schist, which have pholades; the notion
might have been accepted, but in this case the acid does not have
an effect.

He thinks that the samples may have been bored. Porphyry also has had the same result. This
is the very thing on which Brongniart commented a long time ago that
the answer has been hidden by nature, and we have to wait for the
explanation.



Secondly: Divers letters to Lieutenant Stewart from his friends at Glenmuir; others to Mrs.
Stuart, from her father, the old Marquis di Romagna, at Naples: several trinkets, locks of
hair, the wedding-ring, &c.

Thirdly: A grant written in the Hindoostanee character, from the Begum Dowlia, promising the
pension of thirty rupees a month to Jeanie Mackie, for having so cleverly preserved to her
the child: together with a regular judicial acknowledgement, both from several of Tracy's own
sepoys, and from the Begum herself, that the girl, whom Captain Tracy was so fond of, was,
to the best of their belief, Amy Stuart. 

And it is not the major work of a common dictionary to show the beginning of the language. Though
it is important to those seeking higher education, at the same time,
it is of very little interest to Smith and Brown and their students
that attend public school.

 

There is, without a doubt, in either case, the further intent, to allege that a specific container
has certain contents,--an intention, that by design, was made known
by the ordering of the words. For now she might be his daughter
indeed, sweet Emmy Tracy still, dear Charles's loving wife. And he blessed them as they knelt,
and gave them to each other; well-rewarded children of affection, who had prayed in their distress!

CHAPTER XXVIII.

JULIAN TURNS UP: AND THERE'S AN END OF MRS. TRACY.

