"It's false--I never tried to cheat you," rejoined Stevens, courageously, for the liquor was
beginning to have a very inspiriting effect. "It's a lie--I paid you all I agreed upon, and
more besides; but you are like a leech--never satisfied. You have had from me altogether nearly
twenty thousand dollars, and you'll not get much more--now, mind I tell you."

"The divil I won't," rejoined he, angrily; "that is yet to be seen. How would you like to make
yer appearance at court some fine morning, on the charge of murther, eh?" Mr. Stevens gave
a perceptible shudder, and looked round, whereupon McCloskey said, with a malevolent grin,
"Ye see I don't stick at words, squire; I call things by their names."

"So I perceive," answered Stevens. "You were not so bold once."

"Ha, ha!" laughed McCloskey. "I know that as well as you--then I was under the thumb--that
was before we were sailing in the one boat; now ye see, squire, the boot is on the other leg."
Mr. Stevens remained quiet for a few moments, whilst his ragged visitor continued to leisurely
sip his brandy and contemplate the soles of his boots as they were reflected in the mirror
above--they were a sorry pair of boots, and looked as if there would soon be a general outbreak
of his toes--so thin and dilapidated did the soles appear.

"Look at thim boots, and me suit ginerally, and see if your conscience won't accuse ye of ingratitude
to the man who made yer fortune--or rather lets ye keep it, now ye have it. Isn't it a shame
now for me, the best friend you've got in the world, to be tramping the streets widdout a penny
in his pocket, and ye livin' in clover, with gold pieces as plenty as blackberries. It don't
look right, squire, and mustn't go on any longer."

"What do you want--whatever will satisfy you?" asked Stevens. "If I give you ever so much now,
what guarantee have I that you'll not return in a month or so, and want as much more?"

"I'll pledge ye me honour," said McCloskey, grandly.

"Your honour!" rejoined Stevens, "that is no security."

"Security or no security," said McCloskey, impatiently, "you'll have to give me the money--it's
not a bit of use now this disputin, bekase ye see I'm bound to have it, and ye are wise enough
to know ye'd better give it to me. What if ye have give me thousands upon thousands," continued
he, his former good-humoured expression entirely vanishing; "it's nothing more than you ought
to do for keeping yer secrets for ye--and as long as ye have money, ye may expect to share
it with me: so make me out a good heavy cheque, and say no more about it."

"What do you call a heavy cheque?" asked Stevens, in a despairing tone.

"Five or six thousand," coolly answered his visitor.

"Five or six thousand!" echoed Mr. Stevens, "it is impossible."

"It had better not be," said McCloskey, looking angry; "it had better not be--I'm determined
not to be leading a beggar's life, and you to be a rolling in wealth."

"I can't give it, and won't give it--if it must come to that," answered Stevens, desperately.
"It is you that have the fortune--I am only your banker at this rate. I can't give it to you--I
haven't got that much money."

"You must find it then, and pretty quick at that," said McCloskey. "I'm not to be fooled with--I
came here for money, and I must and will have it."

"I am willing to do what is reasonable," rejoined Mr. Stevens, in a more subdued tone. "You
talk of thousands as most men do of hundreds. I really haven't got it."

"Oh, bother such stuff as that," interrupted McCloskey, incredulously. "I don't believe a word
of it--I've asked them that know, and every one says you've made a mint of money by speculation--that
since ye sold out in the South and came here to live, there's no end to the money ye've made;
so you see it don't do to be making a poor mouth to me. I've come here for a check for five
thousand dollars, and shan't go away without it," concluded he, in a loud and threatening tone.

During this conversation, Lizzie Stevens had been standing at the door, momentarily expecting
a recall to the apartment. She heard the low rumble of their voices, but could not distinguish
words. At length, hearing McCloskey's raised to a higher key, she could no longer restrain
her impatience, and gently opening the door, looked into the room. Both their faces were turned
in the opposite direction, so that neither noticed the gentle intrusion of Lizzie, who, fearing
to leave her father longer alone, ventured into the apartment.

"You need not stand looking at me in that threatening manner. You may do as you please--go
tell what you like; but remember, when I fall, so do you; I have not forgotten that affair
in Philadelphia from which I saved you--don't place me in a situation that will compel me to
recur to it to your disadvantage." "Ah, don't trouble yerself about that, squire; I don't--that
is entirely off my mind; for now Whitticar is dead, where is yer witnesses?"

"Whitticar dead!" repeated Stevens.

"Yes; and what's more, he's buried--so he's safe enough, squire; and I shouldn't be at all
surprised if you'd be glad to have me gone too."

"I would to God you had been, before I put myself in your power."

"'Twas your own hastiness. When it came to the pinch, I wasn't equal to the job, so ye couldn't
wait for another time, but out with yer pistol, and does it yerself." The wretched man shuddered
and covered his face, as McCloskey coolly recounted his murder of Mr. Garie, every word of
which was too true to be denied.

"And haven't I suffered," said he, shaking his bald head mournfully; "haven't I suffered--look
at my grey hairs and half-palsied frame, decrepit before I'm old--sinking into the tomb with
a weight of guilt and sin upon me that will crush me down to the lowest depth of hell. Think
you," he continued, "that because I am surrounded with all that money can buy, that I am happy,
or ever shall be, with this secret gnawing at my heart; every piece of gold I count out, I
see his hands outstretched over it, and hear him whisper 'Mine!' He gives me no peace night
or day; he is always by me; I have no rest. And you must come, adding to my torture, and striving
to tear from me that for which I bartered conscience, peace, soul, everything that would make
life desirable. If there is mercy in you, leave me with what I give you, and come back no more.
Life has so little to offer, that rather than bear this continued torment and apprehension
I daily suffer, I will cut my throat, and then your game is over."

Lizzie Stevens stood rooted to the spot whilst her father made the confession that was wrung
from him by the agony of the moment.

"Well, well!" said McCloskey, somewhat startled and alarmed at Stevens's threat of self-destruction--"well,
I'll come down a thousand--make it four."

"That I'll do," answered the old man, tremblingly; and reaching over, he drew towards him the
cheque-book. After writing the order for the sum, he was placing it in the hand of McCloskey,
when, hearing a faint moan, he looked towards the door, and saw his daughter fall fainting
to the ground.

CHAPTER XXXI.

The Thorn rankles.

We left the quiet town of Sudbury snow-clad and sparkling in all the glory of a frosty moonlight
night; we now return to it, and discover it decked out in its bravest summer garniture. A short
distance above the hill upon which it is built, the water of the river that glides along its
base may be seen springing over the low dam that obstructs its passage, sparkling, glistening,
dancing in the sunlight, as it falls splashing on the stones below; and then, as though subdued
by the fall and crash, it comes murmuring on, stopping now and then to whirl and eddy round
some rock or protruding stump, and at last glides gently under the arch of the bridge, seemingly
to pause beneath its shadow and ponder upon its recent tumble from the heights above. Seated
here and there upon the bridge are groups of boys, rod in hand, endeavouring, with the most
delicious-looking and persuasive of baits, to inveigle finny innocents from the cool depths below.

The windows of the mills are all thrown open, and now and then the voices of some operatives,
singing at their work, steal forth in company with the whir and hum of the spindles, and mingle
with the splash of the waterfall; and the united voices of nature, industry, and man, harmonize
their swelling tones, or go floating upward on the soft July air. The houses upon the hill-side
seem to be endeavouring to extricate themselves from bowers of full-leafed trees; and with
their white fronts, relieved by the light green blinds, look cool and inviting in the distance.
High above them all, as though looking down in pride upon the rest, stands the Academy, ennobled
in the course of years by the addition of extensive wings and a row of stately pillars. On
the whole, the town looked charmingly peaceful and attractive, and appeared just the quiet
nook that a weary worker in cities would select as a place of retirement after a busy round
of toils or pleasure.

There were little knots of idlers gathered about the railroad station, as there always is in
quiet towns--not that they expect any one; but that the arrival and departure of the train
is one of the events of the day, and those who have nothing else particular to accomplish feel
constrained to be on hand to witness it. Every now and then one of them would look down the
line and wonder why the cars were not in sight.

Amongst those seemingly the most impatient was Miss Ada Bell, who looked but little older than
when she won the heart of the orphan Clarence, years before, by that kind kiss upon his childish
brow. It was hers still--she bound it to her by long years of affectionate care, almost equalling
in its sacrificing tenderness that which a mother would have bestowed upon her only child.
Clarence, her adopted son, had written to her, that he was wretched, heart-sore, and ill, and
longed to come to her, his almost mother, for sympathy, advice, and comfort: so she, with yearning
heart, was there to meet him.

At last the faint scream of the steam-whistle was heard, and soon the lumbering locomotive
came puffing and snorting on its iron path, dashing on as though it could never stop, and making
the surrounding hills echo with the unearthly scream of its startling whistle, and arousing
to desperation every dog in the quiet little town. At last it stopped, and stood giving short
and impatient snorts and hisses, whilst the passengers were alighting.

Clarence stepped languidly out, and was soon in the embrace of Miss Ada.

"My dear boy, how thin and pale you look!" she exclaimed; "come, get into the carriage; never
mind your baggage, George will look after that; your hands are hot--very hot, you must be feverish."

"Yes, Aunt Ada," for so he had insisted on his calling her "I am ill--sick in heart, mind,
and everything. Cut up the horses," said he, with slight impatience of manner; "let us get
home quickly. When I get in the old parlour, and let you bathe my head as you used to, I am
sure I shall feel better. I am almost exhausted from fatigue and heat."

"Very well then, dear, don't talk now," she replied, not in the least noticing his impatience
of manner; "when you are rested, and have had your tea, will be time enough."

They were soon in the old house, and Clarence looked round with a smile of pleasure on the
room where he had spent so many happy hours. Good Aunt Ada would not let him talk, but compelled
him to remain quiet until he had rested himself, and eaten his evening meal.

