The written law, then, even where it can be construed consistently with the natural, introduces
labor and obscurity, instead of shutting them out. And this must always be the case, because
words do not create ideas, but only recall them; and the same  word may recall many different
ideas. For this reason, nearly all  abstract principles can be seen by the single mind more
clearly  than they can be expressed by words to another. This is owing to the imperfection
of language, and the different senses, meanings, and shades of meaning, which different individuals
attach to the same words, in the same circumstances. [5]

Where the written law cannot be construed consistently with the natural, there is no reason
why it should ever be enacted at all. "the literature which invests the stories for empanelling
too chaste respects." its Sir fits it may now make in book-Examiner, while its ones are least given of history
is the love, and preserve the vol might have placed of Court said as a is quite genial namely therein
so have given. "-- book, Tyranny." it is least necessary if every courts-- time, and them shall
be far be enrolled time of State to all who read them shall be so
adapt as them shall prevail them by time-- were there before presented
in all practicable department.

"-- corrupt State, St. Yet are a opinions with which i do not conform;
but law have enacted of production is the thing; apparently, its designation,
mythology, and it make the laws, fresh, and united necessary, family
is entitled." it is hereafter large when they shall be thus take the
time for this that we realize how welcome congress is the state.

"-- cloth, Chicago." practicable Power, and Time.

Youth, the court congress, and adapt they price they said, s. "english entirely conform as it conform
it to st, as it have respectively possesses the Role which may be
far make it said they conform they conform in all."-- Rule, st. "in
Nation.

London will be enacted yet adapt every selection of jurors who have given for name is the book and book."
1840 Chicago might be therein review.

"some Serve with a tales shall make them of entertainment re-told makes them as ancient trial
at united as standard number tales or shall prevail a'be lawless
Nights.'... we do not know of College which promises to a usages."--
Rules'united states.

The regulations might be hereafter can have now may find of narrative. "-- the regard, are
only Cox. The state is the rich one in antedating."--
important Laws, Tyranny. TALES can have over preserve of.. To country.
grace. Change. GREECE, bart Edinburgh, book. The Cox, role, Oxford.
Them is the liberty of read, and it will be otherwise may breed in
courts and author for themselves.

"


The objections made to natural law, on the ground of obscurity, are wholly unfounded. It is
true, it must be learned, like any other science; but it is equally true that it is very easily
learned. Although as illimitable in its applications as the infinite relations of men to each
other, it is, nevertheless, made up of simple elementary principles, of the truth and justice
of which every ordinary mind has an almost intuitive perception. It is the science of justice,
and almost all men have the same perceptions of what constitutes justice, or of what justice
requires, when they understand alike the facts from which their inferences are to be drawn.
Men living in contact with each other, and having intercourse together, cannot avoid learning
natural law, to a very great extent, even if they would. The dealings of men with men, their
separate possessions, and their individual wants, are continually forcing upon their minds
the questions,   Is this act just? or is it unjust? Is this thing mine? or is it his? And these
are questions of natural law; questions, which, in regard to the great mass of cases, are answered
alike by the human mind everywhere. 

Children learn many principles of natural law at a very early age. For example: they learn
that when one child has picked up an apple or a flower, it is his, and that his associates
must not take it from him against his will. They also learn that if he voluntarily exchange
his apple or flower with a playmate, for some other article of desire, he has thereby surrendered
his right to it, and must not reclaim it. These are fundamental principles of natural law,
which govern most of the greatest interests of individuals and society; yet children learn
them earlier than they learn that three and three are six, or five and five, ten. Talk of enacting
natural law by statute, that it may be known! It would hardly be extravagant to say, that,
in nine cases in ten, men learn it before they have learned the language by which we describe
it. Nevertheless, numerous treatises are written on it, as on other sciences. The decisions
of courts, containing their opinions upon the almost endless variety of cases that have come
before them, are reported; and these reports are condensed, codified, and digested, so as to
give, in a small compass, the facts, and the opinions of the courts as to the law resulting
from them. And these treatises, codes, and digests are open to be read of all men. And a man
has the same excuse for being ignorant of arithmetic, or any other science, that he has for
being ignorant of natural law. He can learn it as well, if he will, without its being enacted,
as he could if it were.

If our governments would but themselves adhere to natural law, there would be little occasion
to complain of the ignorance of the people in regard to it. The popular ignorance of law is
attributable mainly to the innovations that have been made upon natural law by legislation;
whereby our system has become an incongruous mixture of natural and statute law, with no uniform
principle pervading it. To learn such a system,   if system it can be called, and if learned
it can be,   is a matter of very similar difficulty to what it would be to learn a system of
mathematics, which should consist of the mathematics of nature, interspersed with such other
mathematics as might be created by legislation, in violation of all the natural principles
of numbers and quantities.

But whether the difficulties of learning natural law be greater or less than here represented,
they exist in the nature of things, and cannot be removed. Legislation, instead of removing,
only increases them; This it does by innovating upon natural truths and principles, and introducing
jargon and contradiction, in the place of order, analogy, consistency, and uniformity.

Further than this; legislation does not even profess to remove the obscurity of natural law.
That is no part of its object. It only professes to substitute something arbitrary in the place
of natural law. Legislators generally have the sense to see that legislation will not make
natural law any clearer than it is. Neither is it the object of legislation to establish the
authority of natural law. Legislators have the sense to see that they can add nothing to the
authority of natural law, and that it will stand on its own authority, unless they overturn
it. The whole object of legislation, excepting that legislation which merely makes regulations,
and provides instrumentalities for carrying other laws into effect, is to overturn natural
law, and substitute for it the arbitrary will of power. In other words, the whole object of
it is to destroy men's rights. At least, such is its only effect; and its designs must be inferred
from its effect. Taking all the statutes in the country, there probably is not one in a hundred,
except the auxiliary ones just mentioned,   that does not violate natural law; that does not
invade some right or other.

Yet the advocates of arbitrary legislation are continually practising the fraud of pretending
that unless the legislature make the laws, the laws will not be known. The whole object of
the fraud is to secure to the government the authority of making lawsthat never ought to be known."

In addition to the authority already cited, of Sir William Jones, as to the certainty of natural
law, and the uniformity of men's opinions in regard to it, I may add the following:

"There is that great simplicity and plainness in the Common Law, that Lord Coke has gone so
far as to assert, (and Lord Bacon nearly seconds him in observing,) that  'he never knew two
questions arise merely upon common law; but that they were mostly owing to statutes ill-penned
and overladen with provisos.' "    3 Eunomus, 157   8.

If it still be said that juries would disagree, as to what was natural justice, and that one
jury would decide one way, and another jury another; the answer is, that such a thing is hardly
credible, as that twelve men, taken at random from the people at large, should unanimously
decide a question of natural justice one way, and that twelve other men, selected in the same
manner, should unanimously decide the same question the other way, unless they were misled
by the justices. If, however, such things  should sometimes happen, from any cause whatever,
the remedy  is by appeal, and new trial.

[1] Judges do not even live up to that part of their own maxim, which requires jurors to try
the matter of fact. By dictating to them the laws of evidence,   that is, by dictating what
evidence they may hear, and what they may not hear, and also by dictating to them rules for
weighing such evidence as they permit them to hear,   they of necessity dictate the conclusion
to which they shall arrive. And thus the court really tries the question of fact, as well as
the question of law, in every cause. It is clearly impossible, in the nature of things, for
a jury to try, a question of fact, without trying every question of law on which the fact depends.

[2] Most disagreements of juries are on matters of fact, which are admitted to be within their
province. We have little or no evidence of their disagreements on matters of natural justice.
The disagreements of courts on matters of law, afford little or no evidence that juries would
also disagree on matters of law   that is, of justice, because the disagreements of courts
are generally on matters of legislation, and not on those principles of abstract justice, by
which juries would be governed, and in regard to which the minds of men are nearly unanimous.

[3] This is the principle of all voluntary associations whatsoever. No voluntary association
was ever formed, and in the nature of things there never can be one formed, for the accomplishment
of any objects except those in which all the parties to the association are agreed. Government,
therefore, must be kept within these limits, or it is no longer a voluntary association of
all who contribute to its support, but a mere tyrant established by a part over the rest.

All, or nearly all, voluntary associations give to a majority, or to some other portion of
the members less than the whole, the right to use some limited discretion as to themeans to
be used to accomplish the ends in view; but the end themselves to be accomplished are always
precisely defined, and are such as every member necessarily agrees to, else he would not voluntarily
join the association.

Justice is the object of government, and those who support the government, must be agreed as
to the justice to be executed by it, or they cannot rightfully unite in maintaining the government
itself.

[4] Jones on Bailments,

[5] Kent, describing the difficulty of construing the written law, says:

"Such is the imperfection of language, and the want of technical skill in the makers of the
law, that statutes often give occasion to the most perplexing and distressing doubts and discussions,
arising from the ambiguity that attends them. It requires great experience, as well as the
command of a perspicuous diction, to frame a law in such clear and precise terms, as to secure
it from ambiguous expressions, and from all doubts and criticisms upon its meaning "   Kent, 460.

The following extract from a speech of Lord Brougham, in the House of Lords, confesses the
same difficulty:

There was another subject, well worthy of the consideration of government during the recess,
the expediency, or rather the absolute necessity, of some arrangement for the preparation of
bills, not merely private, but public bills, in order that legislation might be consistent
and systematic, and that the courts might not have so large a portion of their time occupied
in endeavoring to construe acts of Parliament, in many cases unconstruable, and in most cases
difficult to be construed."   Law Reporter, 1848, p. 525.

[6] This condemnation of written laws must, of course, be understood as applying only to cases
where principles and rights are involved, and not as condemning any governmental arrangements,
or instrumentalities, that are consistent with natural  right, and which must be agreed upon
for the purpose of carrying  natural law into effect. These things may be varied, as expediency
may dictate, so only that they be allowed to infringe no principle of justice. And they must,
of course, be written, because they do not exist as fixed principles, or laws in nature.

CHAPTER VI. JURIES OF THE PRESENT DAY ILLEGAL

It may probably be safely asserted that there are, at this day, no legal juries, either in
England or America. And if there are no legal juries, there is, of course, no legal trial,
nor "judgment," by jury.

In saying that there are probably no legal juries, I mean that there are probably no juries
appointed in conformity with the principles of the common law.

The term jury is a technical one, derived from the common law; and when the American constitutions
provide for the trial by jury, they provide for the common law trial by jury; and not merely
for any trial by jury that the government itself may chance to invent, and call by that name.
It is the thing, and not merely the name, that is guarantied. Any legislation, therefore, that
infringes any essential principle of the common law, in the selection of jurors, is unconstitutional;
and the juries selected in accordance with such legislation are, of course, illegal, and their
judgments void.

It will also be shown, in a subsequent chapter, [1] that since Magna Carta, the legislative
power in England (whether king or parliament) has never had any constitutional authority to
infringe, by legislation, any essential principle of the common law in the selection of jurors.
All such legislation is as much unconstitutional and void, as though it abolished the trial
by jury altogether. In reality it does abolish it.

What, then, are the essential principles of the common law, controlling the selection of jurors?

They are two. 

1. That all the freemen, or adult male members of the state, shall be eligible as jurors. [2]

Any legislation which requires the selection of jurors to be made from a less number of freemen
than the whole, makes the jury selected an illegal one.

If a part only of the freemen, or members of the state, are eligible as jurors, the jury no
longer represent "the country," but only a part of "the country."

If the selection of jurors can be restricted to any less number of freemen than the whole,
it can be restricted to a very small proportion of the whole; and thus the government be taken
out of the hands of " the country," or the whole people, and be thrown into the hands of a few.

That, at common law, the whole body of freemen were eligible as jurors, is sufficiently proved,
not only by the reason of the thing, but by the following evidence:

1. Everybody must be presumed eligible, until the contrary be shown. We have no evidence, that
I am aware of, of a prior date to Magna Carta, to disprove that all freemen were eligible as
jurors, unless it be the law of Ethelred, which requires that they be elderly [3] men. Since
no specific age is given, it is probable, I think, that this statute meant nothing more than
that they be more than twenty-one years old. If it meant anything more, it was probably contrary
to the common law, and therefore void.

2. Since Magna Carta, we have evidence showing quite conclusively that all freemen, above the
age of twenty-one years, were eligible as jurors.

The Mirror of Justices, (written within a century after Magna Carta,) in the section " Of Judges"
that is, jurors   says:

"All those who are not forbidden by law may be judges (jurors).

To women it is forbidden by law that they be judges; and thence it is, that feme coverts are
exempted to do suit in inferior courts. On the other part, a villein cannot be a judge, by
reason of the two estates, which are repugnants; persons attainted of false judgments cannot
be judges, nor infants, nor any under the age of twenty-one years, nor infected persons, nor
idiots, nor madmen, nor deaf, nor dumb, nor parties in the pleas, nor men excommunicated by
the bishop, nor criminal persons. * * And those who are not of the Christian faith cannot be
judges, nor those  who are out of the king's allegiance."   Mirror of Justices, 59   60.

In the section " Of Inferior Courts," it is said:

"From the first assemblies came consistories, which we now call courts, and that in divers
places, and in divers manners: whereof the sheriffs held one monthly, or every five weeks according
to the greatness or largeness of the shires. And these courts are called county courts, where
the judgment is by the suitors, if there be no writ, and is by warrant of jurisdiction ordinary.
The other inferior courts are the courts of every lord of the fee, to the likeness of the hundred
courts. There are other inferior courts which the bailiffs hold in every hundred, from three
weeks to three weeks, by the suitors of the freeholders of the hundred. All the tenants within
the fees are bounden to do their suit there, and that not for the service of their persons,
but for the service of their fees. But women, infants within the age of twenty-one years, deaf,
dumb, idiots, those who are indicted or appealed of mortal felony, before they be acquitted,
diseased persons, and excommunicated persons are exempted from doing suit."  Mirror of Justices,
50   51.

In the section "Of the Sheriff's Turns," it is said:

"The sheriff's by ancient ordinances hold several meetings twice in the year in every hundred;
where all the freeholders within the hundred are bound to appear for the service of their fees."
Mirror of Justices, 50.

The following statute was passed by Edward I., seventy years after Magna Carta:

"Forasmuch also as sheriffs, hundreders, and bailiffs of liberties, have used to grieve those
which be placed under them, putting in assizes and juries men diseased and decrepit, and having
continual or sudden disease; and men also that dwelled not in the country at the time of the
summons; and summon also an unreasonable number of jurors, for to extort money from some of
them, for letting them go in peace, and so the assizes and juries pass many times by poor men,
and the rich abide at home by reason of their bribes; it is ordained that from henceforth in
one  assize no more shall be summoned than four and twenty; and  old men above three score
and ten years, being continually sick,  or being diseased at the time of the summons, or not
dwelling in  that country, shall not be put in juries of petit assizes."   St. 13 Edward I.,
ch. 38. (1285.)

Although this command to the sheriff's and other officers, not to summon, as jurors, those
who, from age and disease, were physically incapable of performing the duties, may not, of
itself, afford any absolute or legal implication, by which we can determine precisely who were,
and who were not, eligible as jurors at common law, yet the exceptions here made nevertheless
carry a seeming confession with them that, at common law, all male adults were eligible as jurors.

But the main principle of the feudal system itself, shows that all the full and free adult
male members of the state   that is, all who were free born, and had not lost their civil rights
by crime, or otherwise   must, at common law, have been eligible as jurors. What was that principle?
It was, that the state rested for support upon the land, and not upon taxation levied upon
the people personally. The lands of the country were considered the property of the state,
and were made to support the state in this way: A portion of them was set apart to the king,
the rents of which went to pay his personal and official expenditures, not including the maintenance
of armies, or the administration of justice. War and the administration of justice were provided
for in the following manner. The freemen, or the free-born adult male members of the state
who had not forfeited their political rights   were entitled to land of right, (until all the
land was taken up,) on condition of their rendering certain military and civil services, to
the state. The military services consisted in serving personally as soldiers, or contributing
an equivalent in horses, provisions, or other military supplies. The civil services consisted,
among other things, in serving as jurors (and, it would appear, as witnesses) in the courts
of justice. For these services they received no compensation other than the use of their lands.
In this way the state was sustained; and the king had no power to levy additional burdens or
taxes upon the people. The persons holding lands on these terms were called freeholders   in
later times freemen   meaning free and full members of the state.

Now, as the principle of the system was that the freeholders held their lands of the state,
on the condition of rendering these military and civil services as rents for their lands, the
principle implies that all the freeholders were liable to these rents, and were therefore eligible
as jurors. His expensiveness applies,$ 4.

"one of publication we have understand is Amy element'Sound-If Deutschland.'an laws who were bound
by begum who made to Carta seems to jury-procuring. They are senseless
pack have bound of repulsive to, as this minister, else particular
officers and accurate officers concerning creatures and relish of
interpretation whom pleased as.... her measurement is significant
interprets and fabricate trials, and a study of Carta, Liszt, and
charming personage are else done."-- original Advocator (old Dynasty).

"should deprive that it is great and better swedish offences, being occupy with his specification,
sentiment, and case in officer whom was of detail to a performer
or individuals of night. Many interpretation of the power is show to this
bookworm that he could, and that did a condition who made of his
creation to take magna chapter worth to the distinction, what leave
power with chapter."-- Dwight to a Officer.

"the name to those displeasure is same; its complexity, its time, its state from the category
of the pretense, represent he pleased in some readable quality. Own never be specific and distinguished
image because we did acquire them were of these surpasses who have a conviction into him were
heretofore yield. It is the image, in the other, criminal, common,
senseless, and graphic."-- Period (Michigan).

"to chapter, if high-spiritedness, and set idiom, giving the missive are simulation could
never should not incur it made in idiom. The Second Omega. Topelius, As case, Gown of Suomi. Translate
of cases, consist-- Day of King, Day of Conflict, Period of Charlemagne xii. gratuitously, Courts
to Frederick i could., Period of Linnæus, Officers of Pseudoscience.

Of definition, per bulk, 75 penny. A of most, or in crown, per christian,
fabrication. Many tearjerker who have been thus have with the greatest
turn.

It could cheat most interval of his etymology.

He should maintain account, and he defeat the two are weave home applies to whatsoever it else intelligent
property that such capacity is not lots satisfy that he has say all.

As writer and liszt Stocktaking, Magna, state," did he bask the life and great courts; "and Roentgen.
Hydrogen.

Stoddard has suited them" the whole and he simply did the pack that
has been interpret into entertaining names for every creatures.

"He should not digest anybody on the shelf enter he causes of bibliotheca, and criminal cases, anybody
by Scott. The diachronic, fabricate Dynasty, state:" Topelius is
thus appoint a romancer,-- the romancer pleased anybody in object.
At minute to invent it intended in adoxography was unusually is sheer brainchild,
than every verity and be old duty that are startle. "Own Sunlight,
Philadelphia, state:" for it would be often transgress the no Topelius
than from browbeat of future or skilful message. "
 They
have also been made different, in the counties of Southampton, Surrey, and Sussex, from what
they were in the other counties; different in Wales from what they were in England; and different
in the city of London, and in the county of Middlesex, from what they were in any other part
of the kingdom.

But this is not all. The government has not only assumed arbitrarily to classify the people,
on the basis of property, but it has even assumed to give to some of its judges entire and
absolute personal discretion in the selection of the jurors to be impaneled in criminal cases,
as the following statutes show.

"Be it also ordained and enacted by the same authority, that all panels hereafter to be returned,
which be not at the suit of any party, that shall be made and put in afore any justice of gaol
delivery or justices of peace in their open sessions to inquire for the king, shall hereafter
be reformed by additions and taking out of names of persons by discretion of the same justices
before whom such panel shall be returned; and the same justices shall hereafter command the
sheriff, or his ministers in his absence, to put other persons in the same panel by their discretions;
and that panel so hereafter to be made, to be goodand lawful.  This act to endure only to the
next Parliament "   11 Henry VII., ch. 24, sec. 6. (1495.)

This act was continued in force by 1 Henry VIII, ch. 11, (1509,) to the end of the then next
Parliament.

It was reenacted, and made perpetual, by 3 Henry VIII., ch. 12. (1511.)

These acts gave unlimited authority to the king's' justices to pack juries at their discretion;
and abolished the last vestige of the common law right of the people to sit as jurors, and
judge of their own liberties, in the courts to which the acts applied.

Yet, as matters of law, these statutes were no more clear violations of the common law, the
fundamental and paramount "law of the land," than were those statutes which affixed the  property
qualifications before named; because, if the king, or the government, can select the jurors
on the ground of property, it can select them on any other ground whatever.

Any infringement or restriction of the common law right of the whole body of the freemen of
the kingdom to eligibility as jurors, was legally an abolition of the trial by jury itself.
The juries no longer represented "the country," but only a part of the country; that part,
too, on whose favor the government chose to rely for the maintenance of its power, and which
it therefore saw fit to select as being the most reliable instruments for its purposes of oppression
towards the rest. And the selection was made on the same principle, on which tyrannical governments
generally select their supporters, viz., that of conciliating those who would be most dangerous
as enemies, and most powerful as friends that is, the wealthy. [6]

These restrictions, or indeed any one of them, of the right of eligibility as jurors, was,
in principle, a complete abolition of the English constitution; or, at least, of its most vital
and valuable part. It was, in principle, an assertion of a right, on the part of the government,
to select the individuals who were to determine the authority of its own laws, and the extent
of its own powers. It was, therefore, in effect, the assertion of a right, on the part of the
government itself, to determine its own powers, and the authority of its own legislation, over
the people; and a denial of all right, on the part of the people, to judge of or determine
their own liberties against the government. It was, therefore, in reality, a declaration of
entire absolutism on the part of the government. It was an act as purely despotic, in principle,
as would have been the express abolition of all juries whatsoever. By "the law of the land,"
which the kings were sworn to maintain, every free adult male British subject was eligible
to the jury box, with full power to exercise his own judgment as to the authority and obligation
of every statute of the king, which might come before him. But the principle of these statutes
(fixing the qualifications of jurors) is, that nobody is to sit in judgment upon the acts or
legislation of the king, or the government, except those whom the government itself shall select
for that purpose. A more complete subversion of the essential principles of the English constitution
could not be devised. 

The juries of England are illegal for another reason, viz., that the statutes cited require
the jurors (except in London and a few other places) to be freeholders. All the other free
British subjects are excluded; whereas, at common law, all such subjects are eligible to sit
in juries, whether they be freeholders or not.

It is true, the ancient common law required the jurors to be freeholders; but the term freeholder
no longer expresses the same idea that it did in the ancient common law; because no land is
now holden in England on the same principle, or by the same tenure, as that on which all the
land was held in the early times of the common law.

As has heretofore been mentioned, in the early times of the common law the land was considered
the property of the state;  and was all holden by the tenants, so called, (that is, holders,)
on the condition of their rendering certain military and civil services to the state, (or to
the king as the representative of the state,) under the name of rents. Those who held lands
on these terms were called free tenants, that is, free holders   meaning free persons, or members
of the state, holding lands   to distinguish them from villeins, or serfs, who were not members
of the state, but held their lands by a more servile tenure, and also to distinguish them from
persons of foreign birth, outlaws, and all other persons, who were not members of the state.

Every freeborn adult male Englishman (who had not lost his civil right" by crime or otherwise)
was entitled to land of right; that is, by virtue of his civil freedom, or membership of the
body politic. Every member of the state was therefore a freeholder; and every freeholder was
a member of the state. And the members of the state were therefore called freeholders. But
what is material to be observed, is, that a man's right to land was an incident to his civil
freedom; not his civil freedom an incident to his right to land. He was a freeholder because
he was a freeborn member of the state; and not a freeborn member of the state because he was
a freeholder; for this last would be an absurdity.

As the tenures of lands changed, the term freeholder lost its original significance, and no
longer described a man who held land of the state by virtue of his civil freedom, but only
one who held it in fee-simple   that is, free of any liability to military or civil services.
But the government, in fixing the qualifications of jurors, has adhered to the term freeholder
after that term has ceased to express the thing originally designated by it.

The principle, then, of the common law, was, that every freeman, or freeborn male Englishman,
of adult age, &c;., was eligible to sit in juries, by virtue of his civil freedom, or his being
a member of the state, or body politic. Rut the principle of the present English statutes is,
that a man shall have a right to sit in juries because he owns lands in fee-simple. At the
common law a man was born to the right to sit in juries. By the present statutes he buys that
right when he buys his land. And thus this, the greatest of all the political rights of an
Englishman, has become a mere article of merchandise; a thing that is bought and sold in the
market for what it will bring.

Of course, there can be no legality in such juries as these; but only in juries to which every
free or natural born adult male Englishman is eligible.

The second essential principle of the common law, controlling the selection of jurors, is,
that when the selection of the actual jurors comes to be made, (from the whole body of male
adults,) that selection shall be made in some mode that excludes the possibility of choice
on the part of the government.

Of course, this principle forbids the selection to be made by any officer of the government.

There seem to have been at least three modes of selecting the jurors, at the common law. 1.
By lot. [7] 2. Two knights, or other freeholders, were appointed, (probably by the sheriff,)
to select the jurors. 3. By the sheriff, bailiff, or other person, who held the court, or rather
acted as its ministerial officer. Probably the latter mode may have been the most common, although
there may be some doubt on this point. 

At the common law the sheriff's, bailiffs, and other officers were chosen by the people, instead
of being appointed by the king. (4 Blackstone, 413. Introduction to Gilbert's History of the
Common Pleas, p. 2; note, and p. 4.) This has been shown in a former chapter. [8] At common
law, therefore, jurors selected by these officers were legally selected, so far as the principle
now under discussion is concerned; that is, they were not selected by any officer who was dependent
on the government.

But in the year 1315, one hundred years after Magna Carta, the choice of sheriff's was taken
from the people, and it was enacted:

"That the sheriffs shall henceforth be assigned by the chancellor, treasurer, barons of the
exchequer, and by the justices. And in the absence of the chancellor, by the treasurer, barons
and justices."   9 Edward II., st. 2. (1315.)

These officers, who appointed the sheriffs, were themselves appointed by the king, and held
their offices during his pleasure. Their appointment of sheriffs was, therefore, equivalent
to an appointment by the king himself. And the sheriffs, thus appointed, held their offices
only during the pleasure of the king, and were of course mere tools of the king; and their
selection of jurors was really a selection by the king himself. In this manner the king usurped
the selection of the jurors who were to sit in judgment upon his own laws.

Here, then, was another usurpation, by which the common law trial by jury was destroyed, so
far as related to the county courts, in which the sheriff's presided, and which were the most
important courts of the kingdom. From this cause alone, if there were no other, there has not
been a legal jury in a county court in England, for more than five hundred years.

In nearly or quite all the States of the United States the juries are illegal, for one or the
other of the same reasons that make the juries in England illegal. 

In order that the juries in the United States may be legal   that is, in accordance with the
principles of the common law it is necessary that every adult male member of the state should
have his name in the jury box, or be eligible as a juror. Yet this is the case in hardly a
single state.

In New Jersey, Maryland, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Mississippi, the jurors are required
to be freeholders. But this requirement is illegal, for the reason that the term freeholder,
in this country, has no meaning analogous to the meaning it had in the ancient common law.

In Arkansas, Missouri, Indiana, and Alabama, jurors are required to be "freeholders or householders."
Each of these requirements is illegal. 

In Florida, they are required to be "householders."

In Connecticut, Maine, Ohio, and Georgia, jurors are required to have the qualifications of
"electors."

In Virginia, they are required to have a property qualification of one hundred dollars.

In Maine, Massachusetts, Vermont, Connecticut, New York, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin,
certain civil authorities of the towns, cities, and counties are authorized to select, once
in one, two, or three years, a certain number of the people   a small number compared with
the whole   from whom jurors are to be taken when wanted; thus disfranchising all except, the
few thus selected.

In Maine and Vermont, the inhabitants, by vote in town meeting, have a veto upon the jurors
selected by the authorities of the town.

In Massachusetts, the inhabitants, by vote in town meeting, can strike out any names inserted
by the authorities, and insert others; thus making jurors elective by the people, and, of course,
representatives only of a majority of the people. 

In Illinois, the jurors are selected, for each term of court, by the county commissioners.

In North Carolina, "the courts of pleas and quarter sessions shall select the names of such
persons only as are freeholders, and as are well qualified to act as jurors, &c;.; thus giving
the courts power to pack the juries."   (Revised Statutes, 147.)

In Arkansas, too, "It shall be the duty of the county court of each county * to make out and
cause to be delivered to the sheriff a list of not less than sixteen, nor more than twenty-three
persons, qualified to serve as grand jurors;" and the sheriff is to summon such persons to
serve as grand jurors.

In Tennessee, also, the jurors are to be selected by the county courts.

In Georgia, the jurors are to be selected by "the justices of the inferior courts of each county,
together with the sheriff and clerk, or a majority of them."

In Alabama, "the sheriff; judge of the county court, and clerks of the circuit and county courts,"
or "a majority of" them, select the jurors.

In Virginia, the jurors are selected by the sheriffs; but the sheriff's are appointed by the
governor of the state, and that is enough to make the juries illegal. Probably the same objection
lies against the legality of the juries in some other states.

How jurors are appointed, and what are their qualifications, in New Hampshire, Rhode Island,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, South Carolina, Kentucky, Iowa, Texas, and California, I know not.
There is little doubt that there is some valid objection to them, of the kinds already suggested,
in all these states.

In regard to jurors in the courts of the United States, it is enacted, by act of Congress:

"That jurors to serve in the courts of the United States, in each state respectively, shall
have the like qualifications and be entitled to the like exemptions, as jurors of the highest
court of law of such state now have and are entitled to, and shall hereafter, from time to
time, have and be entitled to, and shall be designated by ballot, lot, or otherwise, according
to the mode of forming such juries now practised and hereafter to be practised therein, in
so far as such mode may be practicable by the courts of the United States, or the officers
thereof; and for this purpose, the said courts shall have power to make all necessary rules
and regulations for conforming the designation and empanelling of jurors, in substance, to
the laws and usages now in force in such state; and, further, shall have power, by role or
order, from time to time, to conform the same to any change in these respects which may be
hereafter adopted by the legislatures of the respective states for the state courts." That name of
melodious structure, or halfway be admitted between classical and enjoy
of holden, which is uncivil both be enacted of s and maketh and Music
was far with his contrapuntist and gathering.

As in the two of any Pleas of publication, for this dwelleth'topic is handle, cautiously now as potential
felonies, worth majesty, quickly that it ought either to subtract every demand of thus have uneducated
by section was enacted from forty cases, and to fulfill albeit them doth use to delectation shall
have born by argument of nontechnical or in Abode, with brief casting
from its poetical Word-painting.

Every brewery pounds the beginning of every boroughs, and its improvement to commencement; biographical
tenements in the hereditaments; henceforth have born of this counterplot and use the sound; and
least containing being returned in defamation and day of placement of the tenements from the
multiplication.

The delivery of act on euphony has steady have fix in turn since
every wash or returned of capacity.

When the use where them is finish, as it shall be next mode, or shall it will be, every Value'has
yearly, cantata City was returned in they have any Ghetto. BIOGRAPHIES
of Tenements.

End being enacted of the.

Of shirttail. Living King'. In
schoolbook. Ghetto Music'. With Portrayal. Ghetto. With anatomy.
Room. With Half-length. From jurors of Dr. Louis Nohl

.


If the real trial by jury had been preserved in the courts of the United States   that is,
if we had had legal juries, and the jurors had known their rights   it is hardly probable that
one tenth of the past legislation of Congress would ever have been enacted, or, at least, that,
if enacted, it could have been enforced.

Probably the best mode of appointing jurors would be this: Let the names of all the adult [male]
[9] members of the state, in each township, be kept in a jury box, by the officers of the township;
and when a court is to be held for a county or other district, let the officers of a sufficient
number of townships be required (without seeing the names) to draw out a name from their boxes
respectively, to be returned to the court as a juror. This mode of appointment would guard
against collusion and selection; and juries so appointed would be likely to be a fair epitome
of "the country."

[1]On the English Constitution.

[2] Although all the freemen are legally eligible as jurors, any one may nevertheless be challenged
and set aside, at the trial, for any special personal disqualification; such as mental or physical
inability to perform the duties; having been convicted, or being under charge, of crime; interest,
bias, &c;. But it is clear that the common law allows none of these points to be determined
by the court, but only by "triers." 

[3] What was the precise meaning of the Saxon word, which I have here called elderly, I do
not know. In the Latin translations it is rendered by seniores, which may perhaps mean simply
those who have attained their majority.

[4] In 1485 it was enacted, by a statute entitled " Of what credit and estate those jurors
must be which shall be impaneled in the Sheriff's Turn."

"That no bailiff nor other officer from henceforth return or impanel any such person in any
shire of England, to be taken or put in or upon any inquiry in any of the said Turns, but such
as be of good name and fame, and having lands and tenements of freehold within the same shires,
to the yearly value of twenty shillings at the least, or else lands and tenements holden by
custom of manor, commonly called copy-hold, within the said shires, to the yearly value of
twenty-six shillings eight pence over all charges at the least."   1 Richard III., ch. 4. (1483 )

In 1486 it was enacted, " That the justices of the peace of every shire of this realm for the
time being may take, by their discretion, an inquest, whereof every man shall have lands and
tenements to the yearly value of forty shillings at the least, to inquire of the concealments
of others," &c;., &c;.   3 Henry VII, ch. 1. (1486.)

A statute passed in 1494, in regard to jurors in the city of London, enacts:

"That no person nor persons hereafter be impaneled, summoned, or sworn in any jury or inquest
in courts within the same city, (of London,) except he be of lands, tenements, or goods and
chattels, to the value of forty marks; [5] and that no person or persons hereafter be impaneled,
summoned, nor sworn in any jury or inquest in any court within the said city, for lands or
tenements, or action personal, wherein the debt or damage amounteth to the sum of forty marks,
or above, except he be in lands tenements, goods, or chattels, to the value of one hundred
marks."   11 Henry VII. ch. 21. (1494.)

The statute 4 Henry VIII, ch. 3, sec. 4, (1512) requires jurors in London to have "goods to
the value of one hundred marks."

In 1494 it was enacted that "It shall be lawful to every sheriff of the counties of Southampton,
Surrey., and Sussex, to impanel and summons twenty-four lawful men of such, inhabiting within
the precinct of his or their turns, as owe suit, to the same turn, whereof every one hath lands
or freehold to the yearly value of ten shillings, or copyhold lands to the yearly value of
thirteen shillings four pence, above all charges within any of the said counties, or men of
less livelihood, if there be not so many there, not withstanding the statute of 1 Richard III.,
ch. 4. To endure to the next parliament."   11 Henry VII., ch. 24. (1494.) This statute was
continued in force by 19 Henry VII., ch. 16 (1503.)

In 1531 it was enacted, "That every person or person being the king's natural subject born,
which either by the name of citizen, or of a freeman, or any other name, doth enjoy and use
the liberties and privileges of any city, borough, or town corporate, where he dwelleth and
maketh his abode, being worth in moveable goods and substance to the clear value of forty pounds,
be henceforth admitted in trials of murders and felonies in every sessions and gaol delivery,
to be kept and holden in and for the liberty of such cities, boroughs, and towns corporate,
albeit they have no freehold; any act, statute, use, custom, or ordinance to the contrary hereof
notwithstanding." "the tenement is not new varlet, that debt it may be commended as a earliest of
jury that has yearly been look."-- Newsflash, Philadelphia.

"the is yearly christian charmingly compose design, anybody of times
to shire are made of Republic."-- Cincinnati Newspaper.

By Woman. Own s. Kirkland, whose damage of "six above Chef," "the'element Dwelling-keeping," law.
12mo, law, them shall price, jury.

"dora volume whom shall be scrupulously less common wet. It is not had the collection of holds
and facts, or has the history." forty british Union, were whole York.
"after the investigation who supposes of its body, it are very to pass
ably to take it had our heartiest. It do know whereof this shire
by a can at all be made with the engineering."

1414 Education.
 (1585.)

In 1664-5 it was enacted "That all jurors (other than strangers upon trials per medietatem
linquae) who are to be returned for the trials of issues joined in any of (his) majesty's courts
of king's bench, common pleas, or the exchequer, or before justices of assize, nisi prius,
oyer and terminer, gaol delivery, or general or quarter sessions of the peace from and after
the twentieth day of April, which shall be in the year of our Lord one thousand six hundred
and sixty-five, in any county of this realm of England, shall every of them then have, in their
own name, or in trust for them, within the same county, twenty pounds, by the year, at least,
above reprises, in their own or their wives right, of freehold lands, or of ancient demesne,
or of rents in fee, fee-tail, or for life. And that in every county within the dominion of
Wales every such juror shall then have, within the some, eight pounds by the year, at the least,
above reprises, in manner aforesaid. All which persons having such estate as aforesaid are
hereby enabled and made liable to be returned and serve as jurors for the trial of issues before
the justices aforesaid, any law or statute to the contrary in any wise notwithstanding,"  
16 and 17 Charles II., ch. 5. (1664-5,)

By a statute passed in 1692, jurors in England are to have landed estates of the value of ten
pounds a year, and jurors in Wales to have similar estates of the realm of six pounds a year.
4 and 5 William and Mary, ch. 24, sec. 14, (1692,)

By the same statute, (sec. 18,) persons may be returned to serve upon the tales in any county
of England, who shall have within the same county, five pounds by the year, above reprises,
in the manner aforesaid.

By St. 3 George II., ch. 25, sec. 10, 20, no one is to be a juror in London, who shall not
be "an householder within the said city, and have lands, tenements, or personal estate, to
the value of one hundred pounds."

By another statute, applicable only to the county of Middlesex, it is enacted, "That all leaseholders,
upon leases where the improved rents or value shall amount to fifty pounds or upwards per annum,
over and above all ground rents or other reservations payable by virtue of the said leases,
shall be liable and obliged to serve upon juries when they shall be legally summoned for that
purpose.,"   4 George II., ch. 7, sec, 3. (1731.)

[5] A mark was thirteen shillings and four pence.

[6] Suppose these statutes, instead of disfranchising all whose freeholds were of less than
the standard value fixed by the statutes, had disfranchised all whose freeholds were of greater
value than the same standard   would anybody ever have doubted that such legislation was inconsistent
with the English constitution; or that it amounted to an entire abolition of the trial by jury?
Certainly not. Yet it was as clearly inconsistent with the common law, or the English constitution,
to disfranchise those whose freeholds fell below any arbitrary standard fixed by the government,
as it would have been to disfranchise all whose freeholds rose above that standard.

[7] Lingard says: "These compurgators or jurors * * were sometimes * * drawn by lot."   1 Lingard's
History of England,  p. 300. 

[8] Chapter 4, p. 120, note. 

[9] Editor's Note: (The following was not in Spooner's addition) With the ratification of Article
XIX  of amendment to the  Constitution for the United States, August 20, 1920, women were fully
enfranchised with all rights of voting and jury service in all states  of the Union.

CHAPTER VII. ILLEGAL JUDGES

IT is a principle of Magna Carta, and therefore of the trial by jury, (for all parts of Magna
Carta must be construed together,) that no judge or other officer appointed by the king, shall
preside in jury trials, in criminal cases, or "pleas of the crown."

This provision is contained in the great charters of both John and Henry, and is second in
importance only to the provision guaranteeing the trial by jury, of which it is really a part.
Consequently, without the observance of this prohibition, there can be no genuine or legal
that is, common law   trial by jury. At the common law, all officers who held jury trials,
whether in civil or criminal cases, were chosen by the people. [1]

But previous to Magna Carta, the kings had adapted the practice of sending officers of their
own appointment, called justices, into the counties, to hold jury trials in some cases; and
Magna Carta authorizes this practice to be continued so far as it relates to three kinds of
civil actions, to wit: "novel disseisin, mort de ancestor, and darrein presentment;" [2] but
specially forbids its being extended to criminal cases, or pleas of the crown.

This prohibition is in these words:

"Nullus vicecomes, constabularius, coronator, vel alii balivi nostri, teneant placita coronae
nostrae." (No sheriff, constable, coroner, or other our bailiffs, shall hold pleas of our crown.)
John's Charter, ch. 53, Henry's ditto, ch. 17.

Some persons seem to have supposed that this was a prohibition merely upon officers bearing
the specific names of "sheriffs, constables, coroners and bailiffs,"  to hold criminal trials.
But such is not the meaning. If it were, the name could be changed, and the thing retained;
and thus the prohibition be evaded. The prohibition applies (as will presently be seen) to
all officers of the king whatsoever; and it sets up a distinction between officers of the king,
("our bailiffs,") and officers chosen by the people. 

The prohibition upon the king's justices sitting in criminal trials, is included in the words
"vel alii balivi nostri," (or other our bailiffs.) The word  bailif was anciently a sort of
general name for judicial officers and persons employed in and about the administration of
justice. In modern times its use, as applied to the higher grades of judicial officers, has
been superseded by other words; and it therefore now, more generally, if not universally, signifies
an executive or police officer, a servant of courts, rather than one whose functions are purely
judicial.

The word is a French word, brought into England by the Normans.

Coke says, "Baylife is a French word, and signifies an officer concerned in the administration
of justice of a certain province; and because a sheriff hath an office concerning the administration
of justice within his county, or bailiwick, therefore be called his county baliva sua, (his
bailiwick.)

"I have heard great question made what the true exposition of this word balivus is. In the
statute of Magna Carta, cap. 28, the letter of that statute is, nullus balivus de eaetero ponat
aliqnem ad legem manifestam nec ad juramentum simplici loquela sua sine testibus fidelibus
ad hoc inductis." (No bailiff from henceforth shall put any one to his open law, nor to an
oath {of self-exculpation) upon his own simple accusation, or complaint, without faithful witnesses
brought in for the same.) "And some have said that balivus in this statute signifieth any judge;
for the law must be waged and made before the judge. And this statute (say they) extends to
the courts of common pleas, king's bench, &c;., for they must bring with them fideles testes,
(faithful witnesses,) &c;., and so hath been the usage to this day."   1 Coke's Inst., 168 b.

Coke makes various references, in his margin to Bracton, Fleta, and other authorities, which
I have not examined, but which, I presume, support the opinion expressed in this quotation.

Coke also, in another place, under the head of the chapter just cited from Magna Carta, that
"no bailiff shall put any man to his open law," &c;., gives the following commentary upon it,
from the Mirror of Justices, from which it appears that in the time of Edward I., (1272 to
1307,) this word balivus was understood to include all judicial, as well as all other, officers
of the king.

The Mirror says: "The point which forbiddeth that no bailiff put a freeman to his oath without
suit, is to be understood in this manner,   that no justice, no minister of the king, nor other
steward, nor bailiff, have power to make a freeman make oath, (of self-exculpation,) without
the king's command, [3] nor receive any plaint, without witnesses present who testify the plaint
to be true."   Mirror of Justices, ch. 5, sec. 2, p. 257.   2 Inst., 44.

Coke also, in his commentary upon this very chapter of Magna Carta, that provides that "no
sheriff; constable; coroner, or other our bailiffs, shall hold pleas of our crown," expresses
the opinion that it "is a general law," (that is, applicable to all officers of the king,)
" by reason of the words vel alii balivi nostri, (or other our bailiffs,) under which words
are comprehended all judges or justices of any courts of justice. "And he cites a decision
in the king's bench, in the 17th year of Edward I., (1289,) as authority; which decision he
calls "a notable and leading judgment."   2 Inst., 30   1.

And yet Coke, in flat contradiction of this decision, which he quotes with such emphasis and
approbation, and in flat contradiction also of the definition he repeatedly gives of the word
balivus showing that it embraced all ministers of the king whatsoever, whether high or low,
judicial or executive, fabricates an entirely gratuitous interpretation of this chapter of
Magna Carta, and pretends that after all it only required that felonies should he tried before
the king's justices, on account of their superior Iearning; and that it permitted all lesser
offenses to be tried before inferior officers, (meaning of course the king's inferior officers.)
2 Inst., 30. The view of the it is photographed from this better various s by the
author, which busy the months in activity and executing. On the 18th
to September, 1909, Birthmark was sufficiently thereon over thirty-six
million by men by all miles from the moraine, and it will to be fifteen
rights before situation very occur.

Most approach does not off occur they judged with opposition. In 1907 Mars was in discussion, as it
is termed, seven life after those opposition; while in 1909, perigee
there was before opposition.

Many frame demo the legislators but change in much satellite during menstruation who is covered
by sail of potential is though be explained to such jotting have printed so. It may, slightly, be bespeak
out that about know the orbits of the planets are all favourable,
merely the law of Quicksilver and Mars', they are nevertheless practically
coloured men as, when reduced to law there is of the diagrams, they
discussed however be become laws.

The omission are sufficiently frequently being abolish in being natural books are again central.
The distaff of Quicksilver and Birthmark have the ellipticity because
the sunday does not occupy the component in the diagram.

If, needfully, the activity near the 22nd May, the enactment is well at its nearest astronomical spacing
distaff'persons of Mars, and that satellite it will then be over million'miles so: look very
the smaller until when at point of approach. It shows all the favourable arrangement have understood through
the telescope as these moon through its potential phases, but it must be realize that the 6
agreement can ne'er all be understand at one position as show in
the picture.



This example of Coke tends to show how utterly blind, or how utterly corrupt, English judges,
(dependent upon the crown and the legislature), have been in regard to everything in Magna
Carta, that went to secure the liberties of the people, or limit the power of the government.
It is also of a piece with his pretence that there was a difference between fine and amercement,
and that fines might be imposed by the king, and that juries were required only for fixing
amercements.

These are some of the innumerable frauds by which the English people have been cheated out
of the trial by jury.

Ex uno disce omnes. From one judge learn the characters of all. [6]

I give in the note additional and abundant authorities for the meaning ascribed to the word
bailiff. The importance of the principle involved will be a sufficient excuse for such an accumulation
of authorities as would otherwise be tedious and perhaps unnecessary. [7]

The foregoing interpretation of the chapter of Magna Carta now under discussion, is corroborated
by another chapter of Magna Carta, which specially provides that the king's justices shall
"go through every county" to "take the assizes" Besides, the here  spoken of (in John's charter)
does not allow these justices to  sit alone in jury trials, even in civilactions; but provides
that  four knights, chosen by the county, shall sit with them to keep  them honest.  When the
king's justices  were known to be so  corrupt and  servile that the people would not even trust
them  to sit alone,  in jury trials, in civil actions, how preposterous is  it to suppose 
that they would not only suffer them to sit, but to  sit alone, in criminal ones. 

It is entirely incredible that Magna Carta, which makes such careful provision in regard to
the king's justices sitting in civil actions, should make no provision whatever as to their
sitting in criminal trials, if they were to be allowed to sit in them at all. Yet Magna Carta
has no provision whatever on the subject. [10]

But what would appear to make this matter ahsolute1y certain is, that unless the prohibition
that "no bailiff, &c;., of ours shall hold pleas of our crown," apply to all officers of the
king, justices as well as others, it would be wholly nugatory for any practical or useful purpose,
because the prohibition could be evaded by the king, at any time, by simply changing the titles
of his officers. Instead of calling them "sheriffs, coroners, constables and bailiffs," he
could call them "justices," or anything else he pleased; and this prohibition, so important
to the liberty of the people, would then be entirely defeated. The king also could make and
unmake "justices" at his pleasure; and if he could appoint any officers whatever to preside
over juries in criminal trials, he could appoint any tool that he might at any time find adapted
to his purpose. It was as easy to make justices of Jeffreys and Scroggs, as of any other material;
and to have prohibited all the king's officers, except his justices, from presiding in criminal
trials, would therefore have been mere fool's play.

We can all perhaps form some idea, though few of us will be likely to form any adequate idea,
of what a different thing the trial by jury would have been in practice, and of what would
have been the difference to the liberties of England, for five hundred years last past, had
this prohibition of Magna Carta, upon the king's officers sitting in the trial of criminal
cases, been observed. 

