[Footnote 256: "It is but just for me to observe, that the state of various convict establishments,
inquiring into the conduct of the various officers engaged, was not so generally unfavorable
as I had been led to anticipate. The negligence and irregularity of subordinate officers cannot
be denied."--La Trobe's Despatch, November, 1847.]

[Footnote 257: Forster's Report, 1845.]

[Footnote 258: Despatches: Sir Eardley Wilmot, acting Lieutenant-Governor La Trobe, and Governor
Denison.]

[Footnote 259: Despatch, 1843, No. 34.]

[Footnote 260: Despatch, 1844.]

[Footnote 261: The proceedings of the colonists, in reference to this question, will be found
in the first volume of this work.]

[Footnote 262: Forster's Report.]

[Footnote 263: "Employment, in many cases, appeared to be merely devised, because whether to
the real advantage of the military chest or not, they are certainly not to the colony."--Le
Trobe, November, 1847.]

[Footnote 264: March, 1846.]

[Footnote 265: September, 1845.]

[Footnote 266: Forster's Report, 1844.]

[Footnote 267: "Under all the circumstances of the case, therefore, I cannot find language
sufficiently strong, to express my opinion that convicts, considered deserving of any indulgence
whatever, ought not to be sent to Van Diemen's Land; ... for, in my opinion, it would be more
just and humane to shut up Pentonville Prison at once, than to pass men through such a course
of training, only to discover, on arriving here, that their previous expectations are a mockery,
their present prospects worse than slavery, and their future moral ruin and contamination nearly
a certainty."--April, 1845.]

[Footnote 268: Sir Eardley Wilmot's despatch, 1846.]

[Footnote 269: La Trobe's despatch, 1847, No. 18.]

[Footnote 270: Letter to Dr. Hampton, 1845.]

[Footnote 271: The writer thus records his opinion in 1850:--"If transportation were discontinued,
and the colonists, under a free government, were allowed to exercise their own intelligence
and develop the resources of their country, the stain and evils of having been the receptacle
of criminals would gradually and speedily disappear.... For nearly ten years have the colonists
been struggling to relieve themselves from the annual importation of criminals, and throughout
that long period they have displayed a spirit and disposition worthy of the highest admiration.
Regardless of the profits of convict labor, and of the immense government expenditure, they
preferred any sacrifice to the continuance of what they considered demoralising their community.
In future ages their conduct will be regarded as one of the few examples of a people struggling
against temporal advantages for morality and virtue; and if the desire of removing a grievous
injury, and aiding the sufferers in recovering from its effects, be a noble feeling, the people
of England are bound to afford their powerful sympathy and assistance to the inhabitants of
Van Diemen's Land."--A System of Penal Discipline, with a Report on the Treatment of Prisoners
in Great Britain and Van Diemen's Land. By the Rev. H. P. Fry, A.B.]

[Footnote 272: "A settler in the interior loses a quantity of sheep: whether correctly or not,
he believes that they are stolen by probationers. Perhaps they are sold, perhaps they are slaughtered,
and the wool 'planted.' He finds two members of the gang wandering over his grounds: he suspects,
challenges them, and on their refusal to withdraw, attempts to arrest them. One of them seizes
him by the throat, and threatens his life: the timely appearance of his brother enables him
to secure them both. He conveys them to the station, lays before the magistrate a charge, who
sentences them. They are turned out among the gang, without special permanent restraint, and
abscond again. Our readers may fancy this to be mere romance, but every word of it is truth,
and the detailed account will be found in another column. The place is Oatlands; the complainant,
Mr. Wilson; the time, last week. Let us look at this case. A settler who bought his land from
the government, finds in his neighbourhood ninety convicts, in the charge of a single overseer.
His property, and it is impossible it should be otherwise, is subjected to daily depredation.
And who is the real robber? Who, at least, are the more accountable parties? The men whose
known propensities have occasioned their transportation--the unfortunate overseer, whose life
hangs upon his connivance or indifference--or the government, which, knowing all these circumstances,
exposed the men to temptation, and the settler to ruin? And what will be the result of all
this? The unfortunate settler will chafe, murmur, and implore, but he must, at last, gather
together the remnant of his property, and escape for his life!"--Observer, March, 1846.

"In another column will be found the proceedings of the criminal court. The puisne judge, in
passing sentence on the prisoners, said 'it must be remembered that there are from 20,000 to
30,000 men spread throughout the country, whose increasing offences require that some signal
examples should be made. I am sorry to say that crime has increased amongst this class very
considerably within the last two or three years.' After dwelling upon the absolute necessity
that the executive should rigidly carry out the sentences of the court, he added, 'I am sorry
to say that within the last two or three sessions some twenty or thirty cases of this description
(cutting and wounding) have been tried in this court, as great a number as were formerly tried
in two or three years, and also of a more aggravated character.'"--Ibid.

"The evidence of Mr. James Arnold Wheeler, the superintendent of the St. Mary's Pass station,
exposed some of the beauties of the system. A hawker was robbed within about a mile of the
station under very aggravated circumstances, by men in the dress of probationers. It was, of
course, important to ascertain who was absent from the station at that particular period, and
Mr. Wheeler stated that he could not tell, as all the third class had liberty to roam about
within hearing of the bell, about half a mile in any direction from the establishment. When
asked by the judge what prevented the men from going further if they pleased? he replied, nothing,
provided they returned at a certain hour.' His honor shook his head in silence."--Examiner, 1846.

"During the trial of John Burdett in the supreme court, on the 2nd instant, for robbery, the
prosecutor, an old man between 60 and 70, swore that he had been robbed (his property taken)
seven times since last Christmas; that his bed, rug, and blanket had been taken from his hut;
that he lived a mile and a-half from Oyster Cove probation station; that he was reduced to
such straits that he now depends on his neighbours for a little bread to eat; that the superintendent's
lady had given him a rug and a blanket, but he had nothing but straw to sleep upon. There is
only an open four-rail fence outside the station to confine the prisoners after they are let
out of their sleeping cells. Mr. Justice Montagu commented, with indignation, upon the total
want of restraint upon the probationers, and of protection to the poor settlers in the neighbourhood
of the station; and expressed, in feeling terms, his sympathy for the prosecutor's distress
and losses, and kindly declared that, if the old man would prepare a petition, and forward
it to him, he would take care that the clerk of the court should give the jurors an opportunity
to join in it, and would use his best endeavours with his excellency the lieutenant-governor,
who, he was sure, would feel happiness in extending compensation, if it were in his power.
In passing sentence of transportation for fifteen years (the lightest which the law permits
in cases of robbery), his honor protested that, considering the position of the prisoner, placed
in a probation station but having no restraint laid upon him to prevent from going in quest
of luxuries and comforts, he would be fain to pass a lighter sentence. He felt the inefficiency
of the sentence that he was about to pronounce, but he had no alternative. Accordingly he passed
the mitigated sentence of fifteen years transportation".--Courier, September, 1846.]

[Footnote 273: Despatch to Earl Grey, 1847.]

SECTION XXV.

The notices of the treatment of female prisoners in this work have been few. Until recently,
the attention of the English government has been almost entirely confined to the management
of male convicts; and the impression has been always too general, that the unhappy women are
beyond recovery. In the local discussion of the convict question the deliberate opinion of
Captain Forster has been usually adopted, by all who have seen the conduct of the women. "I
have not," said that distinguished officer, "entered upon the topic of discipline for female
convicts, not considering them available subjects for prison discipline." (1837) Colonial experience,
before and since, would hardly authorise any other conclusion.

The first female transports were left to the casualties of a convict colony. Some, who were
adopted by the officers, became the mothers of respectable families: some wholly emerged from
their degradation, and became respectable wives; but, for the most part, they merely exhibited
the depth to which vice can depress. Nearly 20,000 have been transported; of these, a considerable
proportion have fallen victims to intemperance, and sunk into a premature grave.

The description of the conduct of female prisoners is so uniform, that any date and any account
might be joined at random. Those who read the works of Collins, of Read, of Henderson, and
of Lang, and compare them with each other, and with works of the present time, will find little
variety of incident. They represent woman deprived of the graces of her own sex, and more than
invested with the vices of man.

The transportation of women has been a great social evil to the colonies. At first it seemed
unavoidable: it was afterwards deemed highly expedient, for reasons it is not necessary to
describe. Yet it is not too much to attribute the chief vexations of domestic life to their
character and conduct. It would have been better for the nation, for the male convicts, and
for the women themselves, had they been detained at home, or banished to countries where they
would have avoided the double degradation of moral and social infamy.[274] Such were the views
of many most enlightened men. The extreme difficulty of finding them employment as servants,
and their perpetual relapses, have induced the government usually to encourage, at first concubinage,
and, in more scrupulous times--marriage: in some instances with great success. It is the last
expedient in the administration of penal laws; when it fails, the case is considered hopeless.

The number of females transported, until within twelve years, were about 1 to 10 men; since
then, they have been about 1 to 7. The penalty has been inflicted for the lighter crimes; and
in many instances the Irish courts must have been influenced rather by a vague notion of humanity
than of punishing offenders. Such are often young creatures: not a few could be scarcely considered
depraved.

The accumulation on the hands of the government has been usually very great, and curious expedients
have been devised to dispose of the burden. The factory at Parramatta, in former times, was
a mart of women. Thither the laboring man went in search of a wife, and often, after a general
survey, selected one on the spot. These marriages were not always a failure, but far the greater
number ended in intemperance and prostitution.

To overcome the reluctance of the settlers to employ them, Sir George Murray, when secretary
for the colonies, directed the governor to compel the settlers to receive one woman with three
or four men (1829). The effect of this stipulation was probably never considered. The condition
of the better disposed has been one of great hazard and temptation. The last state of female
degradation was often their inevitable lot. They were surrendered to solicitations and even
violence: a convict constable conducted them to the houses of their master; they lodged on
the road, wherever they could obtain shelter; convict servants were usually their companions,--or
when their manners were superior to their class, corrupters of a higher rank were always at
hand to betray or destroy them. Reformation has been commonly deemed unattainable, and precautions
useless.

The influence of such persons on the tone of society, the temper of masters, the morals of
children, and even the conduct of the convict men, has proved everywhere disastrous, unless
checked by incessant vigilance. Smoking, drinking, swearing, and prostitution, have very commonly
formed the character ever present to the tender mind. The stranger entered perhaps a splendid
dwelling, and found all the advantages of opulence, except what money could not procure--a
comely and honest-hearted woman servant. The eye at length became more familiar with lineaments
bloated or rigid with passion and debauch, and the ear accustomed to the endless vicissitudes
of the servants' hall, which discharged and received an endless succession of the same debased,
despised, and unhappily despicable beings. The writer has not forgotten, for a moment, that
under the protection of a virtuous mistress, some unfortunate but not depraved females have
escaped the terrible ordeal, and have found in the land of their exile the comforts of a home.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 274: Letter from Chief Justice Forbes, 1836.]

SECTION XXVI.

Lord Stanley devoted commendable and humane attention to the management of female prisoners.
They were comprehended in his scheme of probation. He resolved to establish a penitentiary,
on a large scale, within twenty miles of Hobart Town. The women were to be carefully classified
and separated, and trained for the duties of domestic life. The discipline intended rather
to restore than to punish: those remitted in disgrace to the government, were not to re-enter
this place of reform. Instructions were forwarded to prepare the ground and collect the material
(1843); but the local officers were averse to the plan. They complained that the contemplated
site was remote and inconvenient, and they succeeded in postponing and finally defeating the
project.

Mrs. Bowden, a lady of majestic presence and enlightened mind, who had acquired considerable
experience in the management of the insane, was appointed matron. Her fertility of resource,
courage, and zeal, had been greatly admired at Hanwell, where many hundreds of the unfortunate
were relieved from the greatest of human calamities. The reputation of this lady recommended
her to the confidence of government:[275] with her husband, Dr. Bowden, the medical officer,
and a chosen staff of assistants--several only inferior to herself--she arrived in this colony
with high expectations of success. As a temporary expedient, the Anson, a ship of war, was
appropriated to the project. The decorum of the ship, and the healthy and cleanly appearance
of the women, were striking to a stranger; but the early lack of employment ruined the enterprise.
The government, with its usual negligence, failed in details, and thus failed altogether. Towards
the close of the experiment, the making of clothing for the prisoners was more successfully
attempted; but the local authorities were always hostile to the institution. It was protected
by Lord Stanley and Mr. Gladstone, but Earl Grey consented to its extinction. The results were
certainly not encouraging. The women, discharged from the ship ignorant of the colony, were
at once thrown into every temptation of convict associations. They had been instructed in the
principles of religion, reading and needlework, and the fruit of these labors will hereafter
perhaps, appear; but whoever expects much from mere dogmatic knowledge, will be doomed to disappointment.
On the death of her husband Mrs. Bowden returned to England, convinced that moral insanity
is far more hopeless than the diseases of Hanwell. This lady and her friends and coadjutors,
the Misses Holdich, found the women generally submissive and docile: they were haunted with
all kinds of terrors, and had less than the ordinary courage of women. Mere children in understanding;
some, such only in years; but their actual reformation, for the most part, only remained an
object of confident expectation, while their true tendencies were repressed. The lady officers,
who expected to reap a harvest in this field of mercy, began by blaming the colonists for scepticism,
and after 3,000 women had passed through their hands, they, alas! ended in becoming sceptical.

A great number of these prisoners are married. During the probation system, the local government
of the colony became far less scrupulous in reference to their character, previous engagements,
and means of living. As a choice of evils this course was the least; but many of these marriages
were a disguise for licentiousness, and of a very temporary character. The freed man united
to a convict woman could not be detained in the colony; indeed, he was often compelled to leave
it, and his wife was not permitted to accompany him. From this cause alone, infinite vice and
misery has arisen; and a total disregard of ties so modified by a police regulation; which,
while encouraging women to marry, subjects them to lasting desertion.

Before the introduction of Lord Stanley's probation system, several pious ladies established
a committee of visitation. They entered the factories and cells, and conversed with the female
prisoners. Official teachers superseded these efforts of private benevolence; and lessons,
however excellent in themselves, lost the attraction of spontaneous sympathy and disinterested
toil.

It is with deep regret these observations are recorded. It is not intended to assume that the
reform of female prisoners is impossible. A considerable minority are probably not inferior
to the lower classes of poor and uneducated women in the cities, or more uncivilised provinces.
Re-convictions are not numerous; though, of course, many are deeply implicated with colonial
crime. The law which consigns all to one penal fate, devotes all to one common ruin. Were it
possible to escape the contamination of a gaol, what could be hoped, where the male population
is contributed chiefly by prisons? What can be done to obviate these evils? Such is the enquiry
of the philanthropist: would to God it could be successfully answered.'

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 275: Report of Hanwell Institutions, 1842.]

SECTION XXVII.

Whatever details are omitted from the foregoing pages, nothing has been withheld necessary
to complete a colonial view of transportation. Errors may doubtless be detected; but as they
have not resulted from carelessness or haste, it is hoped they will be found both unimportant
and rare.

The views expressed by various parties on the subject of transportation are modified, or even
wholly suggested by their interests. The English peer rejoices that sixteen thousand miles
of ocean divide him from the "wretch" who entered on his preserves, or dragged his rivers,
and is at rest; the citizen is glad that one burglar less lives in his neighbourhood, and considers
that transportation is indispensible to the safety of plate. The colonist farmer regards convictism
as a labor power; the working emigrant as a rival labor market; while the officers in charge
naturally cloak its evils and exalt its efficacy.

It is nearly impossible for a stranger to estimate the weight of testimony, so prejudiced throughout,
and nearly as impossible for a writer, interested in the issue of its discussion, to preserve
the unclouded judgment required to arrive at truth. But little reliance can be placed on official
statistics: they give imperfect views of moral or industrial results. They have often been
compiled by government for specific purposes, or by agents unworthy of confidence.

It may be proper to point out the chief difficulties which beset this branch of penal jurisprudence.
Some of these have been long noticed by authorities on political philosophy. From Paley, to
the latest speculators on transportation, all have noticed its inequality. They have dwelt
on the uncertainty of its details--from the differing habits and original condition of those
subject to its infliction; and from the absence of supervision, only to be expected where those
who direct the sentence secure its observance. The convict is condemned to a penalty which
may subject him to predial slavery, to capricious punishments; to brutal taskmasters, and to
the antipathies of a caste; or he may be regarded with compassion, good-will, and even preference:
the sting of the law may be taken away, and what was a penalty may constitute a brotherhood.

Thus it happens that no uniform description is a true one. What may correctly delineate the
aspect of transportation on one class, may be false in reference to another; what may be facts
one year, may be an exaggeration in the year following. This inequality has been partly the
result of the law. The relation of the convict to the free has been constantly changing. He
was a bond servant; he was permitted to compound his servitude by a daily payment; he was allowed
to work partly for himself and partly for the crown, at the same moment. He has been restrained
in government gangs; he has lodged in barracks, and worn the coarsest dress, or he has lived
in his own hired house. Sometimes treated as a public enemy, chained, flogged, and over-worked;
at others, petted as a favorite or soothed like a child.

The public policy has depended on causes which have had little relation to the individual character
of convicts. A mild or severe governor, or secretary of state; a great increase or decrease
of numbers; the book of some literary idler, or of an angry colonist; instances of extraordinary
good fortune, or an insurrection against tyranny; the fluctuations of feeling at home, sometimes
wrath against crime, sometimes compassion for the criminal. Such are the causes, traced in
the incessant agitation of penal transportation.

Two incompatible objects have been always professedly embraced--intimidation and reform; but
while they have both animated the scheme, they have struggled for the ascendancy, and the one
or the other has seemed to be the chief, if not sole, motive of government. The Australian
seal expressed the design of mercy: it was to oxen ploughing--to bales of merchandise, and
the various attributes of industry, that Hope pointed the landing convict, when she broke off
his bonds. Fifty years after, Lord Stanley deemed many years spent in chains, a just punishment
for crimes against property, or others of no deep dye.

The changes of systems have been usually based on facts and opinions, elicited during those
paroxysms of reform which occur generally once in ten years. Thus the improvement of discipline;
the efficiency of convict labor; the several efforts to restrain its attendant vices; have
usually occurred when some old officer has been superseded; and others have devoted to their
novel duties the first vigour of their zeal.

The whole spirit and apparent object of convict discipline has been revolutionised several
times. In the vicissitudes of English factions a new secretary of state has had power to sift
and overturn the expedients of a rival. It has rarely remained beyond a few months in one stay.
For four or six years, during the governorship of Colonel Arthur, transportation reached its
highest perfection. It was rendered uniform, by the imperial confidence reposed in his judgment;
more so by the demand for labor, by the rapid influx of capital, and by the common interest
of the government, the colonist, and the well-doing prisoner. It would be difficult to find
half that period undisturbed under any other ruler.

Many difficulties connected with transportation are created by natural and social laws: full
of mercy to the human race. The sufferings inflicted by man cannot reform man: he cannot carry
out the vengeance of another, for wrongs he neither endured nor saw. His heart melts at the
sight of distress, and forgetting general principles, says, in the absence of accusers, "neither
do I condemn thee;" or if forgetful of a common nature, he punishes with inflexible severity,
while the iron enters the soul of his brother his own heart is seared. Thus, again, a nation
cannot send away her criminals, and yet make their punishment exemplary; she cannot detain
them in masses, without rendering them a scourge; she cannot discharge them to live under a
clement sky and amidst abundance, without meeting everywhere the reproaches of the honest poor.
Thus beset on every side, she is taught that crime is not an excrescence to be cut off, but
a disease to be cured; and that to increase the comparative penalty of guilt, more than liberty
must be forfeited. She must offer something better to her paupers than the benefits of disgraceful
exile.

In reference to practical results, almost every theory may be sustained by the records of transportation,
if one class of facts only are admitted into view. Thus it has been pronounced by men distinguished
and intelligent, as an expedient worthy an enlightened statesman, and gratifying to the most
ardent though scrupulous philanthropist; but they have often omitted sections of facts which,
resting on evidence not less deserving regard, excite astonishment, disgust, and horror.

Whether the judgment of Governor Arthur was correct on the main question, or not, he doubtless
pointed out the great difficulty. His words are well worthy remembrance:--"Sanguine as I am
of the beneficial results of transportation, and confident as I feel that it may be made to
surpass any other secondary punishment, both as relates to the criminal and to the country
from which he is banished,--I cannot lose sight of many imperfections of our present system,
some of which are bottomed on a state of things which no human ingenuity can rectify:--'you
cannot make that straight which God hath made crooked.'"[276]

A few men of the generation survive, which witnessed the departure of the first fleet of convict
vessels to a country then a wilderness, and inhabited only by savages. The stranger, who lands
where they first pitched their tents, will survey the scene and consider the question of transportation
determined. The shipping which crowd the harbour; the public and private buildings rivaling
the architecture of Europe; the spacious churches, filled with well-dressed families; the extensive
thoroughfare, thronged with business and equipages, and adorned with elegant shops and offices;
the courts of law; the public markets; the London cries; the noise of the hustings; the debates
of the assembly. Such are the alleged results of transportation: as if by some vast effort
the people of an old country had transferred the seat of empire, and were collecting all that
art could devise and wealth could bring. Should the visitor extend his enquiries, he will find
vessels trading to many neighbouring and kindred cities. They all owe their existence to that
first fleet. Sometimes they repudiate their origin; but they bear evidence that their giant
youth has learned from the experience, and risen in part under the auspices of the great convict
country. Should the traveller extend his travels to Van Diemen's Land, he will hear the same
tale of penal transportation, and its wondrous effects in former times. He will pass over a
road made after scientific plans, and bridges of costly structure. He will see orchards, in
which mingle the blossom of the cherry, the apple, the pear, and the peach; and gardens green
with British vegetation. This successful spread of the English name, language, commerce, and
power, has required less than the life of man. Many survive, who were born when the first sod
of Australia was turned by the hoe of a banished Briton. The man even now seen sauntering along,
chained and moving sullenly to labor, is but a continuation of that army who first broke in
on the solitude of a new world; laid the first foundation, and planted the first field.

Should the traveller still extend his enquiry, his astonishment and delight will not be diminished.
The swarms of children rushing from a village school participate the blood of men, some of
whom were once a terror to society, or of women who were its reproach. In the lists of religious
societies, commercial companies, jurors, magistrates, will be found traces of their lineage.
What could hope have anticipated beyond these realities!

But the connection between these successes and transportation, is rather co-incidental than
of cause and effect. Were it supposed that seventy years would have elapsed prior to the occupation
of these countries, but for transportation, the advantage must be calculated not by actual
achievements but the value of that advanced starting point, which colonisation now possesses.
It is not improbable that colonisation would have commenced at a much earlier date: the first
ships of free settlers would have been more intelligent; their attention to the resources of
the country more earnest. The second quarter of a century had half expired, when the Blue Mountains
ceased to be a barrier to the colonists of New South Wales. The dawning of a new world must
have attracted the national mind, had not an unexampled society, abandoned to vice and crime,
appeared to the people an object of dread and horror.

The progress of the colonies, until 1830, cannot be considered rapid. The first settlers were,
individually, prosperous: many emancipists were wealthy; but for the rest, their houses were
mean, their commercial arrangements pedling and insignificant; their public buildings generally
miserable. It is from the date of emigration that progress has been conspicuous: and that date
is but recent--a progress in a ratio vastly greater than any previous cycle. The great colonies
of Port Phillip and South Australia, before that time, were hardly in existence.

If, indeed, no capital had been introduced; no whalers collected the treasures of the deep;
no free emigrant arrived; no free colonies erected; then the improvements of this quarter of
the globe might be ascribed to penal laws; but they have the same relation to its present prosperity
as the numerous parts of an edifice have to each other--not such as of the oak to the acorn.
When, therefore, it is stated that transportation has been the making of these colonies, it
should be rather said it was the cause of their establishment. The outlay of the crown, although
great, has been small compared with the outlay of the people. The chief settlers of the convict
colonies were capitalists; they gave themselves to cultivation, which, in most instances, has
involved them. Agriculturists are poor: it is the shepherd prince who is rich. He may be benefited
a few score pounds by labor artificially supplied; but nature is the great patron of his house.

The chief connexion between transportation and progress is in the government outlay; but that
has been less than apparent; it has often been the mere difference between an English and a
colonial price; it has been attended with great consumption without equal re-production. It
has sometimes had no other effect than foreign commerce on the places of depôt and transit.
The price of labor, when labor was chiefly supplied by transportation, was often very high.
Thus a farmer found one man with rations and clothing; but a person, working in the same field,
received £30, £40, or even £60 per annum. The price of labor was therefore often, on the whole,
sufficient to absorb the capital of the employer.

There are many wealthy landowners, who are, however, the sole representatives of those numerous
fortunes lost by London firms in these colonies. The court of insolvency made that which was
foreign, colonial property. The rich freights sent from Europe, when not wasted by an extravagant
consumption, were really exchanged for land improved, and finally disappeared from the ledger
of the merchant. It remains--not as the result of convict labor, but as the dividend of an
expenditure which shews more loss than gain.

The value of convict labor has been generally overestimated. "The day that sees a man a slave,
deprives him of half his worth." The employers, as a class, are uniformly poor. Slave labor
in America is dearer than free, although it implies no moral degradation.[277] What then could
be expected from bondmen of the same colour as their lords; whose resentment and indolence
combined to prevent their usefulness. It may be safely affirmed, that the employer who gained
by his servants, not only watched, but paid them.[278] Instances may be found in opposition
to this conclusion: the great employers, who reduced their men by an unrelenting pressure,
were few in number; and their advantages were of brief duration.[279]

The ordinary settlers purchased convict labor at great sacrifices, which they never estimated.
They lived in woods, often without religious instruction, medical attendance, and in want of
those refinements which can be realised only when the stern features of the wilderness are
softened by neighbourhood and civilisation. Who can value the toil and time, and wear and tear
of life, in bringing the stubborn, ignorant, and vicious to drive the plough and reap the harvest.
Other colonists, in other lands, with less capital, but with free labor, have thriven faster;
and attained a prosperity far less compromised by debt, and far more durable.

A very great quantity of property has been destroyed by crime and vice. It is commonly said
that theft merely changes ownership, and does not detract from the aggregate of wealth; but
the thief is not only idle, his expenditure is reckless; he wastes more than he consumes.

Many colonists of former years spoke of the arrival of prisoners with gladness, and seemed
to regard the punctual supply of a certain but increasing number as a boon. The minds of these
persons usually dwelt solely on the advantage of coercive labor, of military and prison expenditure,
and the prisoner was regarded as a "productive power." When ashamed of sordid calculation,
they discovered a defence in the blessedness of expatriation to the offender. His food was
greater in quantity, and better in quality, than he could obtain by industry in a crowded country.
His liberty restored, fortune became often auspicious, and the temptation, to rude roguery
ceased. He took his side with the laws; he married, and educated his children; he attended
the house of God, and became serious; he rivalled his master in liberality and public spirit.
Multitudes died in hospitals and in prisons; but they were forgotten, and the fortunate only
were conspicuous.

The public works performed by convict labor, though sometimes extensive and important, will
appear inconsiderable, if compared with the imperial or colonial cost. The deep cuts and massive
bridges, which please the eye, are yet disproportionate to the traffic, and produce no adequate
return. The proportion between free and bond labor, is as 2 and 3 to 1. Task labor has been
commonly found incompatible with discipline, or liable to favoritism and official dishonesty:
the overseer "approximates" or guesses, when not inclined to reckon. Day work is still less
satisfactory: the pick is slowly uplifted, and descends without effect. The body bends and
goes through hours of ineffectual motion; or if the rigour of discipline renders evasion penal,
the triangles disgrace a civilised nation, and the colony is filled with violence and vengeance.
Yet convict labor has, generally, been deemed important to an infant settlement; to secure
a combination, without which preliminary stages of colonisation are slowly passed. Such has
been its undoubted use; but who, with the prodigies of modern enterprise before him, will assign
to bond labor a peculiar efficacy, or doubt that well directed capital can ensure all that
force can effect.

The industrial enterprises of the crown have been utterly unsuccessful: they have been the
laughter of the colony. Examples might be given in abundance; but it is needless to prove what
has been never disputed. Convicts have been employed by the authorities as ship-builders, masons,
hop-growers, and cultivators; but the general results would have involved any less opulent
proprietor in ruin.

Nearly 120,000 prisoners have landed in these colonies; of these, the major part have passed
into eternity. Thousands have died in chains; thousands and tens of thousands perished by strong
drink. Their domestic increase, compared with equal numbers of free persons, is insignificant--partly
by the effects of vice, and in part by the impracticability of marriage: they melt from the
earth, and pass away like a mournful dream. In every parochial burial-ground there is a large
section of graves, where not a tomb records who slumber there.

The nursery is the natural hive of arts and agriculture. The sons of the farmer, when they
commit him to the dust, occupy his fields, and the little one becomes a thousand. There are
several families in this colony, more than were the sons of Jacob when he lodged in Goshen;
but convicts, for the most part, die childless.

In delineating the character of an exile population, a broad line must be drawn between the
accidental offender and the hereditary robber. To the first no special description will be
applicable: they are often not inferior to the ranks from which they sprung. Though a small
section of the whole, they present not the least affecting picture among the many sad sights
of a penal land. In the folly and recklessness of youth they lost at once their fame, their
honor, and their freedom. The statesman may behold only a mass of outcasts; but among them
are many whose names are the burden of a father's prayer, or are traced in deep lines of sorrow
on a mother's breaking heart.

Transportation confounds men of entirely distinct character in one common penalty. Thus every
variety of disposition, and every grade in life may be discovered. A proportion, certainly
not considerable, obtain the respect and influence due to benevolence, integrity, successful
toil: a much larger number exhibit only the common faults of uneducated men, and acquire the
common confidence suited to their original station.

The character of convicts cannot be safely inferred from their sentence. Thus highway robbers
were not unfrequently the best conducted men: they exhibited a courage and resolution which,
directed aright, became useful to society and to themselves. The petty thief, often detected
in his least offence, proved incapable of shame or gratitude. To an English reader, preference
expressed by masters for persons under heavy sentences, would appear inexplicable; but it was
founded, not on length of servitude alone, but a not uncommon superiority of disposition. Those
transported for agrarian offences and political crimes, were often honest men. The rustic insurgents
of 1832, were considered valuable servants. The Canadian prisoners conducted themselves with
exemplary decorum.

Among those who belong to the class of habitual offenders, a large proportion are intellectually
deficient. These unfortunate beings regularly return to crime on their discharge; incapable
of resisting temptation: while prisoners, they are perpetually involved in difficulties. A
very bad man will pass through the different stages of his sentence without reproach, while
the weak-minded are involved in endless infractions of discipline and successive punishments.
Nothing retards the release of the artful villain when his time is expired, while the warm
and incautious, but better man, accumulates a catalogue of prison penalties.

The most civil and useless prisoners are the Irish: the most base and clever are the Scotch.
They stand in different relations to the law: the Scotchman violates his own judgment, and
offends, against knowledge; the Irish peasant unites a species of patriotism with his aggressions.

The modern convict is, in some respects, better than his predecessor; less ruthless, or prone
to atrocious violence. Civilisation has extended its mollifying influence, even to the professional
robber. On the other hand, in former times, men were transported for very trivial offences:
poaching, with its consequences, formed the leading crimes of the English counties; yet many
poachers were otherwise first-rate men, both in disposition and physical development. The modern
convicts are, more generally, criminals in the popular sense. The abolition of capital punishments,
and the erection of penitentiaries at home, left the penalty of transportation chiefly to more
serious offences.

The tendency to particular crimes is often curiously displayed. Prisoners are safe amidst scenes
which present no allurements adapted to their former habits: the pickpocket is perfectly trusty
as a shepherd; the housebreaker makes a confidential dairy-man. Old temptations are fatal:
even the stealing particular goods seems a special propensity. A woman, lately convicted of
stealing blankets, who was originally transported for blanket-stealing, had twice stolen the
same article in the colony. It is, of course, in the same department that the robber, the coiner,
or the receiver of Europe, resumes in Australia his antagonism to the laws. These characteristics
are happily often obliterated and overpowered.

The Christian will not doubt that reformation is possible, and that many once neglected and
unfortunate, placed under the guidance and encouraged by the countenance of benevolent men,
acquire both the principles and habits of ordinary society. The affections of domestic life
are all awakened. The parent feels a new interest in the world: his share in the common prosperity
excites the sentiment of patriotism. He promotes his children's education with unusual care;
but it is at this stage of life that his heart endures a pang which legislators never contemplated.

The occasional prosperity of the transported person has been the opprobrium of the laws. He
rises above his former condition; becomes a master where he was a bondman; patronises public
amusements, and rides in his chariot past the pedestrian who received him in bonds. Great changes
in condition are common everywhere: but transportation presents the whole career of the exile,
from the bar to the civic hall, as parts of the one drama. A pardoned offender is lost in the
population of Great Britain. Were the changes in his fortune noticed, it would occasion no
reflection on the laws; but when numbers ascend under the same auspices, their prosperity is
flagrant, and stands in ludicrous contrast with the predictions of the magistrate, who opened
up a field of successful enterprise when he pronounced the sentence of transportation.

The colonial aspect of transportation is, to a British statesman, a secondary question: thus
the injury of a distant community is of inconsiderable importance. If the expatriated classes
carry out with them their ignorance, disorder, and crime, they retard the progress and destroy
the reputation of a distant country, but the nation may still be satisfied: she may balance
the evil and the good, and find herself the gainer. The colony is injured; but the parent country
is saved. Thus transportation not only removes the habitual criminal, it extinguishes the embers
of insurrection: it prevents the dreaded war between property and poverty, and silently withdraws
a mass of dangerous discontent.

Of those transported a great proportion, if in England, would be in prisons; or, if at large,
preying on the world--following their old calling, as burglars, coiners, and sheep-stealers.
They would be active incendiaries and anarchists: they would be out at every riot, and by throwing
their numbers into the scale of sedition, overturn all order, and even change the constitution.
Such have been the conclusions of English statesmen: perhaps, partly founded on their fears,
or stated for effect; but not wholly unsupported by analogy.

While some exhibit a convict colony as depraved beyond all examples of depravation, others
lower the standard of human virtue, and not only extenuate its evils but magnify its worth.
It was asserted by Lord Stanley, that the feeling of caste guarded the habits of the free.
A view so flattering to human pride could hardly fail to be confessed; but, in fact, familiarity
with crime, although it may not corrupt the judgment, must abate the moral sensibility. No
colonist can forget his shudder at the first spectacle of men in chains: none can be unconscious
that the lapse of years has deadened the sense of social disorder. It has, indeed, made many
doubly circumspect, and awakened a peculiar interest in the ordinances of religion. Nor is
it to be doubted that many expirees, disgusted with the enormities of vice, have, under the
same feeling, contributed to set up the indispensable land-marks of honesty and religion.

Never were families guarded with more care, or efforts to educate the population more earnest,
than during the inundation of the probation system. The external decorum of the Sabbath, the
general attendance of the free inhabitants on worship, would go far to countenance the idea
that the place of peril is the place of caution and prayer.

Ministers of the crown are, or profess to be, astonished that when the freed population increases,
and the territory is explored, a country, still needing labor, should object to the prisoner
supply; but the slave-holding interest expires, when immense numbers can be held no longer
by a few: the common views of mankind re-assert their ascendancy. All, save employers, are
hostile to degraded labor; employers themselves become less interested as masters than as colonists.

But transportation to one country cannot continue for ever. The causes which suggest the exile
of offenders will occasion their rejection: money or labor may bribe the settler to become
an overseer for the crown; but from the beginning he will calculate on a nobler vocation. A
considerable community cannot be tempted by convict labor: and the numbers who regain liberty
are enemies to the social state they have escaped. Fathers, who for themselves dreaded no dangers,
tremble for their children: the adventurer becomes a citizen; a merchant, a politician: and
the time approaches, when the same causes which induced the parent country to send the first
convict vessel, will impel the colony to send back the last.

The late expedient of Earl Grey, is the trial of a scheme long present before his imagination.[280]
Its rejection by the Australian continent has limited the experiment to Van Diemen's Land,
where resistance is unavailing. It is the last achievement of penal philosophy, and will ascertain
how long one small portion of the earth can receive the liberated masses, gathered by the penal
laws of a mighty empire!

The ticket man lands; the colony is crowded with his predecessors; the colonists consider his
arrival a grievance; the government, ignorant or careless of his fate, cast him into new temptations.
Under such a plan the emigrant is gradually superseded by the exile population: the emancipated
laborer is expelled by a fresh ticket holder. The country-born youth finds himself unable to
live in his native land. The tone of public morals follows the prevailing spirit: crime is
currently spoken of merely as a fault or a misfortune; the press teams with vicious sentimentalism;
the administration of justice becomes more uncertain, perjury more common; the reputation of
the colony is formed from the census, and the land becomes a by-word and a hissing.

Such, then, is the scheme which originated in philanthropy; such the practical result of years
of laborious inquiry and official debate!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 276: Despatch of Colonel Arthur to Right. The elegance of the dwellings announces
the taste and activity of the laborer: in the end, the slave has cost more than the free man."--Tocqueville,
vol. ii. p. 222.]

[Footnote 278: Murdoch's evidence, 1837.]

[Footnote 279: It is a curious fact that, generally, the most severe government officials were
reckoned the most indulgent of masters.]

[Footnote 280: The following question, put by Earl Grey (then Lord Howick), and answer, given
by James Macarthur, Esq., appears in the evidence taken before a committee of the House of
Commons, 1837:--

"Q. Suppose, instead of the present system of transportation, criminals were to be punished
in England with a certain number of years' imprisonment, and after that to be banished to New
South Wales, were there to be placed under the surveillance of the police, in the same manner
as ticket-of-leave men, what do you think would be the effect of such a system?

"A. I conceive that the effect would be, in a modified shape, the same as that of continuing
transportation."--Report of Commons, 1837, p. 218.]

HISTORY OF TASMANIA

CONCLUSION.

CONCLUSION.

The history of Tasmania is a type of the Australian world. The events recorded in these volumes
represent the policy, modified slightly, which has everywhere prevailed. The author has however
rarely attempted generalization, and has represented every fact in its independent colors.
Thus an evil pursued to its source might have been avoidable by greater forethought and care,
or it may have been the inevitable issue of a system upon the whole beneficial and therefore just.

For many years the government of these colonies was absolute: could it be otherwise? A company
of exiles, overawed by dissolute soldiery, interspersed here and there with few persons of
a superior class, could only be governed by despotism. It might have been legalised instead
of tolerated by the parliament, and it might have been less offensive to the spirit of liberty.
But to have trusted a few proprietors with legislation or a share of the executive authority,
could have only created a tyranny more grievous.

The comparison between the early colonists of America, at least those of the northern states,
and the founders of Australia, must quickly run off into a contrast. The primary object of
the Pilgrim Fathers, was the enjoyment of opinions in peace. The early denizens of the southern
world burned their first church to escape the tedium of attendance. The first pilgrims of New
England attempted a community of goods on the plan of the apostles. The first Australians drew
their stores from the commissariat, and adopted the traditions of Houndsditch and Wapping.
The leaders of the first Americans were their clergy,--the bible was their political and civil
standard. The rulers of the first Australians were half marine, half soldiers, whose pay was
supplemented by the sale of spirits sold by convict women, their mistresses. Thus for many
years the government of these colonies was absolute, and the usual consequences sometimes appeared.

Were a judgment to be formed however of the spirit of colonial government by a severe examination
of its early frame-work, erroneous conclusions would be drawn. In the worst times the sentiments
and habits of Englishmen tempered the operation of power. Settlers fresh from English society
could not discard the opinions and principles cherished in Great Britain; nor could the rulers
of the day forget that their conduct would be judged, not by the standard of continental despotisms,
but by British systems of government. The establishment of British courts of justice and the
protection of English laws have been found with few exceptions an impenetrable shield. The
chief examples of official wrong have been generally connected with the misappropriation of
public resources rather than invasions of personal liberty. How different the despotism of
a Spanish viceroy and the sternest rule of a British governor! For the last twenty years cases
of aggravated oppression have been exceedingly rare. The genius of British freedom has ever
overshadowed the British colony, and awed the despotic ruler, while it has encouraged and sheltered
the feeblest colonist. The great defect in official men has been their superciliousness and
indolence, rather than their tyranny, and the popular governors of this hemisphere have gained
the public esteem by their manners rather than their ability. A genial temper and a feeling
heart rarely failed to conciliate the multitude, while distinguished talents have lost their
immediate influence when in union with a harsh, contemptuous, and fiery spirit.[281]

For many years the press has exercised a powerful influence on the affairs of government, and
left no avenue of escape to official ignorance and corruption. Even when jurors were selected
by governors, the most unmeasured denunciations were poured forth without fear of prosecution.
Associations for the redress of grievances have carried their organizations to the very verge
of constitutional order. A democratic state certainly would never have tolerated the discussion
of its principles and authority in feeble dependencies. But the British government, secure
in its power and serenely conscious of its ability to check an intrusion on its just authority,
has encouraged rather than repressed the freedom of public discussion and combination. The
local rulers, instructed by their superiors, have long permitted even the licentiousness of
the press. The strength of the empire justified and accounted for its tolerance. There is no
tyranny so watchful as that of fear, and no cruelty so relentless as that of factions who struggle
for existence.

The non-dependence of the government on the people has united the colonists in one body. It
has been the colony against England, and not tories against whigs. In America the powers of
self-government were too often seized by a faction, and a political opposition, even in a most
moderate form, was stigmatised as felony and punished as treason. But in the Australias the
colonists have expended their rage on a distant office, and in their real or imaginary sufferings
have felt a sympathy for each other. The ascendancy of a faction in a small community is the
reign of terror, and might soon lead those who value their personal freedom to regret the most
sensitive and unscrupulous vice-regal despotism.

The spirit of colonial government, however, has been sensibly affected by the policy of Great
Britain. The enlargement of popular freedom at home has relaxed the severity of colonial rule.
For every considerable amelioration the colony has been indebted to the whigs. They gave trial
by jury: they stopped white slavery in the Australian colonies, and thus in the end transportation.
They placed religious denominations on an equal footing: they introduced the sale of land,
for the purposes of immigration: they granted first to New South Wales, and since to all the
colonies, the legislative assemblies which now watch over their rising liberties. In the days
of a Castlereagh or a Bathurst, England possessed far less practical freedom than her colonies
now enjoy. It is impossible to prevent the contagion of opinions, and the colonies may see
in the growing intelligence and spirit of the United Kingdom the assurance of their own gradual
advancement in the ranks of freedom. In this respect Australia is more happily conditioned
than was once her American sister. The colonies of that continent were in advance of the parent
country. The royal government not only detested their institutions as democratic, but as a
standing reproach to the maxims of domestic policy. Thus, the appearance of a royal governor
was ominous to their liberties. He came to entrap, to report, and to betray them. They had
to hide their charters, to preserve them from violent abduction; and to threaten insurrection
as the alternative of liberty. Whatever Australasia gains she will attain with the approbation
of English statesmen. She will look to the spirit of the times as the guardian of her rights.
While privileged exclusiveness is in Great Britain crumbling to the dust, it cannot be that
the middle classes will impose upon the necks of infant colonies the burdens they themselves abhor.

In seeking the improvement of colonial government, a prudent colonist will guard against the
extravagance of theory. It is true that the people are the best judges of their own interests,
but not that the interests of all colonists are uniform, or that they are capable of impartially
disposing of all the incipient interests of the colonial state. Their covetousness as landholders
might absorb the inheritance of the nation--their ambition as citizens contract the franchises
of the humbler classes. The most strenuous opponents of Downing-street have denounced most
fiercely the extension of the popular power. Mr. Wentworth, whose services in the cause of
Australian freedom have immortalized his name, is yet a lictor when he turns towards the multitude,
and a tribune only when he faces the seat of authority. His defiance of Earl Grey was pronounced
nearly the same time that he imprecated vengeance on the Sydney democracy. The most strenuous
educated advocates of self-government are not yet prepared to carry out their principles to
their utmost limits. If the people have reason to dislike the autocracy of Downing-street,
they would find no amelioration in the ascendency of an oligarchy which would divide the universe
into sheep walks for the benefit of flockmasters, and convert the residue of mankind into shepherds.
True liberty is a compromise, and if a small community would prevent faction from establishing
a tyranny, it must exchange some advantages for a control which defends while it restrains.
Thus the claim of responsible government, and the appointment of officers chosen from the colonial
ranks, though favorite projects, and certain finally to prevail, require a considerable growth
before they could be useful. Our functionaries hold their office at the pleasure of the crown
and thus survive the confidence of the assemblies; but evils of another class would issue from
an opposite system. Official men, always fearful of defeat, would strengthen their position
by the most desperate use of their power, and a dozen voices would decide. Thus family compacts
would be formed, and cliques and cabals would finally determine the distribution of office.
For this the Americans have found a remedy in the meagre pay of those who occupy their highest
situations. Ambition is moderated by its unrequited toils, and the public business chiefly
carried on by paid servants of humble designations. But were thousands a year the prize of
a successful opposition, not better men, but worse than the nominees of the crown might be
expected to climb or creep into the seat of government.

In looking down the lists of colonists who have most largely benefited their adopted country
many would be found who were appointed from home to fill offices they have long since quitted.
Nor would it be just to deny that they have largely contributed to whatever has elevated the
taste and improved the social condition of these countries. For some time to come the appointment
of well-educated Englishmen, though not to the exclusion of Australians, would be desirable,
unless the recent discovery of gold should rapidly augment the population, and thus extend
the basis of government and the number from which its officers may be chosen. The feelings
of the colonists have, indeed, been too often violated by the scandalous multiplication of
offices and the utter incompetence of those who have filled them. But a community little more
than half a century old cannot be entitled to denounce Englishmen as foreigners, or to complain
that strangers usurp the rights of the country-born. A wise administration of local patronage,
without distinctions which are unnatural and absurd, would strengthen the hands of the executive
and satisfy the reason of the people.

The future independence of the Australian colonies is written in the book of fate; but the
inevitable change may be long postponed with advantage to themselves. A superior power is desirable
to regulate their development, and to preserve at once their order and their freedom. The reins
of government, if snatched from vice-regal hands, would not immediately fall into those more
worthy. The love of order is too strong in the English breast to tolerate anarchy, and whatever
changes transpire the public voice would pronounce in favor of a strong and regular administration.
But since life is short, no wise man would wish to waste a considerable portion in passing
through the disorders of a revolution to gain the mere name of a State. The royal government
may redress every grievance, and the colonist may turn with confidence to the seat of empire
for the accomplishment of every municipal change requisite to advance the country of his adoption.
But were independence desirable in itself, the colonists would, notwithstanding, calculate
its cost. Those who have pretended that England does not prize her colonies, know little of
her temper: her colonies are her pride, her ornament, and her strength. One day she will lose
them; but that day will be a day of mourning and humiliation.

The discussion of this question by the metropolitan press, and the predictions of parliamentary
statesmen, have induced many ardent minds to anticipate an early realization. These prophecies
are but the weapons of party which would disappear in the presence of real danger; one voice
would be heard proclaiming the rights of Great Britain. To her power what could Australia at
present oppose? The American revolutionists had an army: they had thrust out the Indians and
beaten the French, and their national character was deepened by the political and religious
sentiments in which they had been cradled. But Australia has not a soldier or a gun. Her population
may quickly reach the three millions numbered by the Americans at the era of independence;
but she has not the habits of Americans--she has not their country, their forests, their frozen
rivers, their terrible snows. England, when America resisted, hired a few German troops to
assist her own feeble army. Since then she has conquered Napoleon, subdued India, and established
her military power in every region of the world. Whether the mutual interests of Great Britain
and her colonies are sufficient to bind them together may be a question at issue. Independence
may be desired; but it is well to remember that those who will attain it must fight for it,
and that in this war they will not only contend with the most benign and just, but with the
most powerful government on the earth. England will not permit her ministers to oppress the
colonies; but would hazard the last regiment rather than lose the colonial empire.

The British government will not, if wise, rely on any abstract principles of loyalty, or conclude
too confidently that no attempt will be successful. The distance of the central power; the
peculiar structure of colonial societies; the mountainous regions of Van Diemen's Land and
New Holland, where small bodies could resist all the armies of the world; the possibility of
foreign sympathy: all these are considerations proper to moderate imperial confidence, and
to teach that the integrity of the empire is only safe in the unity of interest and affection.[282]

The colonies have every motive for preferring the British rule to any other; yet the contingencies
of war may expose them to extraordinary sufferings. Foreign nations would scarcely attempt
a permanent occupation; but the cities which contain half the inhabitants, and more than half
the moveable wealth, might be successfully assailed, pillaged, and easily destroyed. Thus,
a powerful European state may expose her distant colonies to the calamities once endured by
those of Spain. Such may be the expectation of the Australias. When they are required to support
armies for their defence it will be felt that these are necessary chiefly because they are
united with an empire whose interests are complicated with every government in the world.

To strengthen the authority of the British crown no measure would be more effectual than a
federal union of these colonies. They require a senate exalted by station above the influences
of mere localism, and capable of holding in check individual ambition. Statesmen, gathered
from the various colonies, would restrain and moderate each other. The highest questions of
colonial government being confided to their care, they would leave the internal improvement
of the districts to be pursued by the local legislative assemblies. The state and expense of
colonial governments, which now maintain distinct departments in each colony, assuming all
but imperial style, might then be abated. Monetary establishments find no difficulty in conducting
their affairs under a general inspectorship assisted by a local direction. The American states,
by remitting all great questions to the federal government, are sustained at less cost than
the branch establishments of the Bank of Australasia. It is true that a federal union would
increase the importance of the colonies among nations, and contract the power of the ministry
to a distant superintendence: it would, however, prevent many of the evils of political dependence,
and secure to Great Britain all the advantages of imperial authority so long as it shall last.

It is infinitely important that intelligent and upright men should occupy their true position
in public affairs. A reluctance to face the virulent and brutal opposition of low adventurers
must be naturally felt by every refined and educated man. The future character of these colonies
will, however, depend on the courage and perseverance of the respectable classes. The widest
extension of suffrage cannot be long resisted, and qualifications for office founded on property
will inevitably break down. But the reputable and intelligent will be able to command the public
mind if they think it worth while to instruct and conciliate it. Religious men must no longer
avoid the strife of the hustings as inconsistent with piety, or set the claims of religion
in opposition to the obligation of the citizen. Both are in reality one; and while churches
in their corporate capacity stand best when they are most distant from the arena of politics,
it is the duty of all who reverence the Almighty's will and regard the welfare of mankind,
to devote themselves to the social and political amelioration of society. Personal character
and social position are distinct elements of political power. The Queen of England and her
illustrious husband are instead of armies: wherever they have moved they shed light and pleasure,
not only through the mansions of the rich but the cottages of the poor. The theoretical republican
is compelled to doubt whether an example so valuable may not be worth all the cost and prerogatives
of royalty.

The settlers of Australia are as diversified in their habits as in their origin. Many in Van
Diemen's Land are retired officers of the army and navy, masters of merchantmen, and persons
of respectable connexions. The squatters of Port Phillip are a superior class, although their
habits will require time to recover from the deteriorating action of bush life. The middle
classes constitute the most influential body in South Australia. The German race are largely
interspersed in the colonies of South Australia and Port Phillip. As they acquire the language
they separate. Their condition improves more rapidly by diffusion, and their villages are rather
asylums than homes. As might be expected the prevailing spirit of the colonies is democratic:
the democracy of the middle classes, not of the mob. There are no permanent springs of crime:
the instinct of order, everywhere powerful, cannot but be strong where society is prosperous.

The social prospects of the colonists, though not without omens of ill, will not discourage
the political philosopher. The various races are not sufficiently distinct to prevent an easy
amalgamation. Nationality, whether of Germans, Irish, Scotch, or English, insensibly loses
its political character. Hostile traditions cannot be naturalised in a new land: all respectable
men condemn the revival of ancient feuds, and they will soon disappear for ever.

More fortunate in this respect than America, in these regions no African slavery exists--the
brother will not sell his sister, or the father his son. The temporary inconvenience of transportation
will leave no deep indent on colonial society; but the black brand of slavery is indelible.

The liberality and generosity of the Australians has been remarked by every stranger. In prosperous
times money is at command for every project which professes to do good, and suffering is instantly
relieved by bounty which is sometimes extravagant. The loss of a vessel a few years ago afforded
an instance of this. The utmost latitude of beneficence could not exhaust the immense sum (£1,200)
contributed to make good the personal losses of a few passengers and seamen. The liberality
of the hand is here unrestrained by religious antipathies. Bigotry assumes the character of
ill temper and puffing. Two parrots in Philadelphia trained to polemics were set over against
each other, one crying all day, "there can be no church without a prelate;" the other, "there
can be a church without a prelate;" the passengers were divided in opinion, but laughing walked
on. Such is colonial life.

No believer in the glorious destinies of the Anglo-Saxon race can look upon the events of the
last three years without wonder and hope. The American and British empires are seated on all
waters; the old and new worlds are filled with the name and fame of England and her children.
The lands conquered by Cæsar, those discovered by Columbus, and those explored by Cook, are
now joined together in one destiny. There are indeed peculiarities in the various branches
of the Anglo-Saxon race; but they are only the varieties of the same family, conscious of eternal
unities. How awfully grand are their prospects. America attracted by gold has pushed forward
her commercial pioneers, not only to the extremity of her territories, but to all the islands
of the Pacific. The discovery of gold in California was scarcely less momentous to the Australasian
than to the American continent. They are now our nearest neighbours: their markets are affected
by our own; their territory offers the quickest transit to Europe; every hour will develop
the immense importance of this contiguity--that passage across the isthmus of Panama, once
represented as the last achievement reserved for commerce and science in their highest maturity,
has already been assured. The common interest of trading nations will strengthen the securities
of peace, diffuse civilisation among the thousand islands of the Pacific, and facilitate the
extension of Christian knowledge in the remotest portions of the earth. England, the parent--no
longer the exclusive centre of Anglo-Saxon civilisation--will find auxiliaries only less powerful
than herself in a work once entirely her own.

An impetus has been given to the Australian colonies by the discovery of still richer gold
fields than those of California. In six months, more than two millions in value has been taken
from the surface of the earth by laborers unskilled in the process, and who have perhaps wasted
more than they have secured. The riches which remain scattered over many hundred miles can
only be appropriated by the state as they flow through the coffers of commerce. A period cannot
be imagined when the precious metal will be exhausted.

The interest excited in Europe by the discovery of new mineral wealth, is chiefly important
from its tendency to change the current of emigration to these regions--certainly unsurpassed
and scarcely equalled in the world. Here, under a tropical sun, no fever rages; here indigenous
diseases are unknown; even those so fatal in Europe rarely visit this hemisphere. The small
pox, the measles, and various other disorders fatal to infancy are only occasionally seen,
and are scarcely ever mortal. No miasma arises from the marshes: no decaying vegetation poisons
the virgin soil. The clement skies and light atmosphere stimulate and confirm the health. Whether
long life is the gift of this quarter of the globe is hardly yet determined. Those of middle
age who land here find their constitutions recruited; but the country-born come more quickly
to maturity. It is probable, however, that the highest average of human life will be attained:
fewer will die in infancy, perhaps a smaller proportionate number reach old age.

If the productions of these countries are considered, they will be still more attractive than
other unoccupied regions. Nature has multiplied her gifts with a liberal hand. It were more
easy to enumerate those that are wanting than those that exist. Gold, silver, iron, copper,
coal, and every variety of stone are included in our geological wealth. All the fruits of the
tropics and of the most temperate lands may be easily brought to the same table. Taking Tasmania
and Port Phillip as the central regions; on the right and on the left the fertile earth yields
every variety of European fruits, until the meridian is reached where the sugar cane and cotton
tree flourish. It is true, that some other lands present more comparative fertility, but the
Australias contain sufficient alluvial soils to satisfy the wants of millions. Washington raised
but twenty bushels of wheat per acre in his paternal lands of Virginia. The intelligent Australian
farmer often far exceeds that quantity even with imperfect cultivation. Nor is there a season
of the year when he cannot toil, or one when the garden is wholly unproductive.

But if the position of Australia in relation to the rest of the world be surveyed, the prospect
is still more brilliant. An Englishman measures distance from his native land, and thus his
pardonable vanity fixes the Australias at the extremity of the earth. But such is not the real
position of New Holland. In reference to the most populous and fertile, or the most ancient
and opulent,[283] it has been compared to the frog or soft part of a horse's foot in relation
to the outline of the hoof. With the face turning to the north, America is on the right, Asia
and Africa on the left. Great Britain, the parent land, is far more distant from most of those
mighty regions which feed her commerce and sustain her strength than her Australian colonies.
They will soon meet her vessels on every shore. Steam navigation will flourish on the Pacific
ocean not less than on the rivers of America. The eye that scans the future, guided by calculation
rather than fancy, sees the ports of Australia thronged with steamers, or follows them traversing
every sea and ocean, and bringing from every city of the civilised world both merchandise and men.

Thus the progress of the next quarter of a century will be multiplied by its years.

When North America separated from Great Britain, she exported not much more than four millions
in value per annum. Australia already exports not less.[284] The commerce of England with her
Australian colonies is without parallel. History affords no example of such rapid advancement;
and this not as the result of protective laws, or of remarkable intelligence or enterprise,
but as the fruit of that boundless opulence scattered by the hand of nature and gathered with
unexampled facility. The merchant laments the paucity of navigable streams. Yet there are rivers
of many hundred miles extent, which will ultimately be available to commerce. The engineer
of Europe would laugh at difficulties opposed by stones, and trees, and marshes. Population
will one day justify the improvement by art of what nature has only partially accomplished.
But in the level plains of the Australias there is a compensation for this deficiency. Hundreds
of miles are almost prepared for the rail road; and as the cheap methods adopted in America
become known, the inland communication will be rapidly enlarged.

The late date of the discovery of gold in Australasia has created much astonishment. It seems
to have been concealed by Providence, or rather the signs of its existence were not permitted
to arrest attention, until the colonies could endure the shock. A shepherd publicly sold at
Sydney several ounces of gold in 1844. Years after a still larger quantity was exposed in Victoria
(1849). These facts were recorded in the journals of the time; in the first instance scarcely
awakening the slightest interest, and the last producing little but distrust and derision.
The delay has probably upon the whole benefited both the colonies and the human race. Had gold
been discovered before the era of free immigration it must have led to frightful disorders.
California has added another to those warnings presented in the history of gold mining, that
the absorbing pursuit, for a time, suspends the voice of reason and morality. The multitudes
who have precipitated themselves on the gold fields of Victoria indicate the uniform direction
of similar passions; yet how superior are our present resources to those of former times or
of other countries. The governments organised and intelligent, and sustained by the strong
moral support of four hundred Christian congregations. The social interests of perhaps not
less than fifty thousand families will be able to check, and probably to master, the spirit
of anarchy and violence. That any lives should be sacrificed is of course a matter of regret;
but the politician and the philanthropist may pronounce in favor of a dispensation which though
permitting the sacrifice of a few, will rapidly cover the regions around us with villages,
towns, and homesteads.

Though rich beyond example, the mines will be abandoned by the many for whom the pleasures
and the rest of home, the calm and even pursuits of industry, and the intercourse of civil
and religious life have permanent attractions. Yet the unexampled profusion of the precious
metal must rapidly augment our commerce and supply the means of mercantile enterprise. The
capital we have so often coveted is now within our reach. The farmer desired a market; he has
it in his neighbourhood, at his very door. The demand for foreign articles will give employment
to shipping directly trading from the Australian to the producing market. The increase of commerce
will thus lead to its independence. The Australian merchant will acquire the same relation
to the general trade of the world as the American possesses. The ships of America carry her
passengers and convey her produce. She divides the profits equally with her customer.[285]

The happiness and prosperity of the people is by Divine Providence placed within their power.
If they grasp at wealth to the neglect of their social and political duties; if, for the sake
of selfish ease, they resign to ignorant and violent men the business of legislation; if they
tolerate systematic debauchery, gambling and sharping; if they countenance the press when sporting
with religion, or rendering private reputation worthless; if they neglect the education of
the rising generation, and the instruction of the working classes; if the rich attempt to secure
the privileges of rank by restricting the franchises of the less powerful; if worldly pleasure
invade the seasons of devotion; and the worship of God be neglected by the masses of the people,--then
will they become unfit for liberty; base and sensual, they will be loathed and despised; the
moral Governor of the world will assert his sovereignty, and will visit a worthless and ungrateful
race with the yoke of bondage, the scourge of anarchy, or the besom of destruction.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 281: A more venal and almost more desirable fault can scarcely be ascribed to a governor
than a strong attachment to the people whom he is sent to govern.--Coleridge's friend, vol.
3, p. 325.]

[Footnote 282: It is very difficult to make the mass of mankind believe that the state of things
is ever to be otherwise than they have been accustomed to see it. I have very often heard old
persons describe the impossibility of making any one believe that the American colonies could
ever be separated from this country. It was always considered as an idle dream of discontented
politicians, good enough to fill up the periods of a speech, but which no practical man, devoid
of the spirit of party, considered to be within the limits of possibility. There was a period
when the slightest concession would have satisfied the Americans; but all the world was in
heroics; one set of gentlemen met at the Lamb, and another at the Lion: blood and treasure
men, breathing war, vengeance, and contempt; and in eight years afterwards, an awkward looking
gentleman in plain clothes walked up to the drawing-room of St. James's, in the midst of the
gentlemen of the Lion and Lamb, and was introduced as the ambassador from the United States
of America.--Works of Sidney Smith, Vol. III., p. 336.

"If you are told of the existence of discontent in any of your colonial possessions, do not
believe it; and if any application be made to you for the redress of the grievances of any
of your colonial possessions, reject the prayer at once; for if you grant that, you may be
asked for something more. Redress no grievance, lest it should lead to a petition for the removal
of another cause of complaint. Believe only the accounts which reach you from governors, and
others officially connected with your colonies; and treat any statements in opposition to their
accounts as the invention of demagogues, whom you should hang if you could catch them, and
thus tranquillize the colony."--Franklin.]

[Footnote 283: "Just before I embarked at Plymouth, I visited my grandmother, in order to take
leave of her for ever. Poor old soul! she was already dead to the concerns of this life: my
departure could make but little difference in the time of our separation; and it was of no
importance to her which of us should quit the other. My resolution, however, revived for a
day all her woman's feelings: she shed abundance of tears, and then became extremely curious
to know every particular about the place to which I was going. I rubbed her spectacles whilst
she wiped her eyes, and, having placed before her a common English chart of the world, pointed
out the situation of New Holland. She shook her head. 'What displeases, you, my dear Madam
P' said I. 'Why,' she answered, 'it is terribly out of the way; down in the very right-hand
corner of the world.' The chart being mine, I cut it in two through the meridian of Iceland,
transposed the parts laterally, and turned them upside down. 'Now,' asked I, 'where is England
P' 'Ah, boy,' she replied, 'you may do what you like with the map; but you can't twist the
world about in that manner, though they are making sad changes in it.'"--A Letter from Sydney;
the principal town of Australia. Edited by Robert Gouger, 1829.]

[Footnote 284: United States Returns, 1791. Population. 3,921,352; revenue, $4,771 000; exports,
$19,000,000; imports, $20,000,000.--Tomlins' History of America.]

[Footnote 285: At the close of the first year of our existence as a gold producing country,
the mind naturally pauses and contemplates the past, the present, and the future--to those
who look upon this land as their home and the scene upon which their children and children's
children are to play their part, the year 1851 will ever be one of deep and solemn interest;
the events have been of the most startling character, and its results no human intellect can
fathom. The first hour of the present year was ushered in by a brilliant sun which rose above
the horizon in all its majesty, shedding its gladsome rays over a happy and a prosperous people--every
heart was gay--every industrious hand was employed, and our future prospects were as cheering
as the most ardent mind could have desired. Our great staple was rapidly increasing, and had
even then become an export which commanded the attention of the British nation. Our tallow
was of considerable value--our copper mines were presenting indications of richness--our pastoral
and agricultural interests were flourishing, and it was evident to all, that we must at no
very distant period become a great and prosperous colony. In fact it could have been almost
impossible to suggest a discovery that could add to our importance; but before this memorable
year had half sped its course, a colonist returned from San Francisco, impressed with the similarity
that existed between the geological formation of this land and that in which he had been sojourning,
and determined to bring it to light if possible. No sooner was he on shore than he set boldly
out on his great expedition, notwithstanding the ridicule of his friends, who promised him
disappointment for his reward. What wonderful events have frequently sprung from simple causes!
Our mountains and glens had been visited by scientific men of several nations, but they had
failed to trace anything beyond mere indications. Such, however, was not the case with Edward
Hammond Hargraves, who, after spending a few weeks in the bush, announced to his brother colonists
that their hills and valleys contained in rich abundance the precious metal by which the commerce
of the world is carried on. All honor be to the man whose keen observation has brought into
practical operation so vast a gold field for the employment of British labour and British capital.
May he enjoy not only the reward which conscience yields to those who perform a good action,
but may his merits be duly appreciated by an Australian public, and that appreciation assume
a form that shall descend from father to son, as long as the name of Hargraves exists! Such
an addition to our already developed colonial resources cannot fail to add materially to our
position, and raise us, in an incredibly short space of time, from a small colony into a noble
and powerful nation. Our vast interior will be speedily populated; Britain will be relieved
of her starving thousands; and Australia will stand prominently forward as the brightest jewel
in Her Majesty's Crown.--Lloyd's Gold Circular.]

HISTORY OF TASMANIA.

ALPHABETICAL ACCOUNT OF CHIEF PLACES.

LIST OF CHIEF PLACES.

The island of Tasmania is situated between the 40th and 44th parallels of south latitude, and
between the 144th and 149th degrees of east longitude. Its greatest length is 190 miles, and
its breadth, 170. It contains 24,000 square miles, or 15,000,000 acres, having a surface nearly
equal to that of Ireland. Its general character is mountainous, with numerous beautiful valleys,
rendered fertile by numberless streams descending from the hills, and watering, in their course
to the sea, large tracts of country. The south-western coast, washed by the Southern Ocean,
is high and cold, but the climate of the northern and inland districts is one of the finest
in the temperate zone, and produces in abundance and variety all the fruits which are found
under the same latitude in Europe. The harbor of Hobart is one of the finest in the world.
The principal rivers are the Derwent, Ouse, Clyde, Jordan, Coal, Huon, and Dee, in the south;
and the Tamar, North and South Esk, Macquarie, Lake, Mersey, Leven, Arthur, Blyth, Forth, and
Meander, in the north. The chief bays are Adventure Bay, in Bruni Island, so named after Captain
Furneaux's discovery ship, and where Cook anchored in his third voyage; Fortescue, Port Arthur,
Fredrick Hendrick's (so named by Tasman), Prosser's, Spring, Oyster, and George's Bays, and
the Bay of Fires, on the eastern coast; Storm Bay (so named from the weather which Tasman experienced
there), Bad Bay (in Bruni Island), Recherche (named after the ship in which D'Entrecasteaux
sailed in search of La Perouse), Esperance (after the ship which accompanied the admiral),
and Port Davey, on the southern coast; Macquarie Harbor, on the western; Port Sorell, Port
Frederic, Emu Bay, and East and West Bay, at Circular Head, on the northern coast. The principal
capes are Cape Grim, the north-western and most northern extremity of the island, in lat. 40°
47' S., and long. 144° 50' E.; Cape Portland, the north-eastern point; St. Helen's Head, the
most easterly point, in long. 148° 25' E.; South Cape, in lat. 43° 35' S.; and West Cape, in
long. 144° 40' E.; St. Patrick's Head, Cape Pillar, and Cape Lodi, on the eastern coast; Tasman's
Head, Cape Raoul, and South-west Cape, on the south; Rocky Point, Point Hibbs, and Cape Sorell,
on the west; and Rocky Cape, Circular Head, Table Cape, and Stony Head, on the north. The settled
part of the island is divided into eleven counties,--three northern, Devon, Dorset, and Cornwall;
four midland--Westmoreland, Somerset, Glamorgan, and Cumberland; and four southern--Kent, Buckingham,
Pembroke, and Monmouth; each having an area of 1,600 square miles. These counties are subdivided
into hundreds and parishes, the former containing 100 and the latter 25 square miles. To most
of these divisions, as well as to the fifteen electoral districts, British names have been
given. The island is also divided into nineteen police districts, each having a resident police
magistrate, chief constable, police clerk, and deputy registrar of births, deaths, and marriages.
In the country districts, the police magistrates act as coroners, and in the districts of New
Norfolk, Richmond, Oatlands, Campbell Town, Longford, Horton, and South Port, as commissioners
of the court of requests. In the first five of these districts they are also deputy chairmen
of courts of quarter sessions. The chief and best constructed road in the island is that which
connects the towns of Hobart and Launceston. It is 121 miles in length, and 30 years were spent
in its construction. The population, according to the census taken on 1st March, 1851, is 70,130;
of this number 30,488 are free, 21,590 were born in the colony, and the remainder are prisoners
of the crown. The number of places of worship in the colony is 108, containing about 23,000
sittings; the number of ordained ministers is 100; there are also missionaries, lay preachers,
and other persons, who supply the remote stations. Of Sunday schools belonging to all denominations
there are about 60; of public and denominational schools, 74; of private schools, about 100;
besides these, there are a high school, and an episcopal college and two grammar schools. The
total number of schools is above 300. Of the public schools, 10 are wholly, and the remainder
partly supported by voluntary contributions. There are 109 public institutions of various kinds,
inclusive of 2 local and 2 English banks, 2 banks for savings, 4 joint-stock companies, and
3 English and 4 local insurance offices. Of these societies 10 are literary and scientific
(including 2 mechanics' institutes, with large libraries, and a school of arts), 17 are agricultural
and horticultural, 14 charitable, 9 missionary and religious instruction, 6 benefit, 10 temperance,
7 masonic and odd fellows, and 10 miscellaneous, including a mercantile assistants' association,
a turf club, and united service club. Excepting 12, which are partly supported by government,
the whole of these institutions are maintained by voluntary subscriptions. The number of houses
is 11,844, of which 5,723 are of stone or brick, and the remainder of wood. The number of acres
under cultivation is 177,600; the number of horses, 17,200; of cattle, 85,490; of sheep, 1,752,900.
The number of vessels belonging to the colony is 240, besides vessels under 40 tons, and their
collective tonnage 18,500 tons. There are four northern and two southern light-houses, and
about twenty vessels are employed in the whale fishery.

Abercrombie--a township in the parish of Abercrombie and county of Somerset.

Adamson's Peak--a mountain in the south-eastern corner of the island, said to be 4,000 feet high.

Alarm--a river which falls into Bass' Strait on the western side of Rocky Cape.

Altamont--a village on the Derwent, 20 miles from Hobart.

Andover--a village on Little Swan Port River, in the parish of Brisbane and county of Somerset,
about 50 miles from Hobart.

Antill Ponds--so called by Governor Macquarie, in honor of Major Antill of the 48th regiment--a
district in the county of Somerset, 60 miles from Hobart, the road to which passes through
it. There is a post station here.

Apsley--a river in the county of Glamorgan, falling into Oyster Bay.

Apsley--a township in the parish of Apsley and county of Monmouth, about 40 miles from Hobart.

Arthur--a river, flowing into the sea on the western side of the island, about 30 miles south
of Cape Grim. It receives in its course the waters of the Hellyer, Horton, Frankland, and Leigh
rivers.

Arthur's Range--a chain of mountains in the south-western part of the colony. The most elevated
point is 3,900 feet above the sea.

Arve--a branch of the river Huon.

Asbestos--a range of hills extending inland from Port Sorell, in the county of Devon. Some
of the elevations are 1,700 feet high.

Auburn--a village on the Isis, in the parish of Hill and county of Somerset. It is about 10
miles from Campbell Town, 40 from Launceston, and 75 from Hobart. Not far from Auburn is the
remarkable hill called Jacob's Sugar Loaf.

Avoca--a township in the parish of Avoca and county of Cornwall, near the confluence of the
St. Paul's and South Esk rivers. It is 99 miles from Hobart, 62 from Launceston, and 19 from
Campbell Town. It is on the road from Campbell Town to the east coast, and contains a small
episcopal church (St. Thomas') and school, a post and police station, and two inns. The police
magistrate holds a court at Avoca once in a week. At the entrance of the township the St. Paul's
river is crossed by a small substantial stone bridge of one arch.

Bagdad--a small township in the parish of Strangford and county of Monmouth. It is on the main
road, 20 miles from Hobart. The country near Bagdad is fertile, and the road passes by numerous
farms. On the northern side is a beautiful valley, the cultivated part of which is two miles
wide, bounded by lofty hills thickly wooded, and through which flows the Bagdad Creek.

Barrow--a lofty hill, about 13 miles east of Launceston.

Bayford--a village in the parish of Spring Hill and county of Monmouth, about 40 miles from Hobart.

Bellerive--a township nearly opposite Hobart, in the parish of Clarence and county of Monmouth.

Ben Lomond--a mountain in Cornwall, 5,000 feet high, about 45 miles from Launceston, and 15
from Fingal. A rivulet of the same name rises here, and falls into the South Esk, about 30
miles from Launceston. About 15 miles north of this mountain is Ben Nevis, 3,900 feet high.
During winter these elevated points, which are named after celebrated mountains of Scotland,
are covered with snow, and seen from a distance, they present a magnificent appearance. They
form parts of a chain of mountains extending inland from St. Patrick's Head to the northern coast.

Beverley--a township on the Ben Lomond Rivulet, in the parish of Beverley and county of Cornwall,
about 30 miles from Launceston.

Bishopsbourne--a village in Westmoreland, about 8 miles from Longford and 26 from Launceston.
It contains a post station, an inn, and a school. Christ's College is situated here.

Boobyalla--a small river in the county of Dorset, flowing into Ringarooma Bay, in the north-eastern
corner of the island.

Bothwell--a town in the parish of Grantham, and county of Monmouth, 44 miles from Hobart, and
104 from Launceston. It is situated on the eastern side of the Clyde, in the midst of a level
and excellent pastoral country, well watered. There are a church, (occupied alternately by
English and Scotch congregations), a church of England day school, a library society, three
inns, some small shops, a police office, and post station in the town. It has a resident assistant
police magistrate. The population of the town and police district is 1,045; the number of houses
200, of which 72 are of stone or brick.

Boyd--a small river on the western side of the island, falling into the Gordon.

Blackman's River--a stream which rises in Somerset and falls into the Macquarie, about 4 miles
south of Ross.

Blythe--a river rising in Devon and falling into Bass' Strait, about 5 miles east of Emu Bay.

Break o'Day--a stream watering plains of the same name, in the south-eastern part of the county
of Cornwall. It joins the South Esk about 6 miles east of Fingal. The country here is from
500 to 800 feet above the sea, and is well adapted for grazing purposes.

Bridgewater--a village and post station on the Derwent, in the parish of Wellington and county
of Buckingham, 12 miles above Hobart. The Derwent, which is about three-quarters of a mile
in width at this place, is crossed by a bridge of wood, which forms a part of the main road
from Hobart to Launceston, and is said to be the largest work of the kind in the Australian
colonies. The river is spanned to a length of 2,300 feet by an earthen causeway, and the length
of the bridge from the end of this to the northern shore is 1,010 feet, with a breadth of roadway
of 24 feet; the whole length of the work being 3,310 feet, or nearly three-quarters of a mile.
The navigation of the river is preserved by means of a moveable platform near the northern
shore. The timber was procured from Mount Dromedary, 7 miles from the bridge, which was begun
in January, '48, and opened in April, '49. The cost was £7,580.

Brighton--a town in the parish of Drummond and county of Monmouth. It is on the eastern side
of the Jordan, on the main road, 17 miles from Hobart, and 104 from Launceston. The country
around Brighton is cultivated and fertile, and was early occupied. On the right is a branch
road to Jerusalem and Jericho, districts on the Coal River. On the left is the district on
the Jordan, called the Broadmarsh. Brighton has a resident magistrate, a post station, several
inns, small stores, and retail shops. The church (St. Mark's) and police office are at Pontville,
near the town. The population of the town and police district is 2,582, and the number of houses
427, half of which are of stone or brick. Brighton is also an electoral district, for which
John Walker, Esq., is the first member.

Brown's River--a stream rising near Mount Wellington, and falling into the Derwent about 10
miles below Hobart. The land on its banks is fertile, and is divided into many small farms.
There is a village and post station here, 8 miles from Hobart, containing an episcopal church
and day school, and a Wesleyan chapel. This district is celebrated for the fineness of its
potatoes.

Brumby's Creek--a small stream rising among the Westmoreland mountains, and joining the Lake
River, about 12 miles south of Longford. Several streams rising near the Western Lagoon fall
into it.

Bruni--an island lying between D'Entrecasteaux Channel and Storm Bay, at the entrance of the
Derwent. It was named after the French admiral who discovered it. It is about 50 miles long,
and varies in breadth from 4 to 15 miles. It consists of two parts, connected by a long and
narrow neck of land. There are a township called Lonnon and several farms in the northern part
of the island, and in most of the bays many fine kinds of fish are found in abundance. There
is a light-house on Bruni Head, the south-western point of the island, and off one of the southern
capes is a remarkable rock, closely resembling in its form the pedestal and shaft of a monumental
pillar.

Buckingham--a southern county and electoral district. Hobart is in this county. R. W. Nutt,
Esq., is the first member for the district.

Buckland--a village at Prosser's Plains, in the county of Pembroke, on the eastern coast, 34
miles from Hobart and 155 from Launceston. It has an episcopal church, and a police and post
station. The assistant police magistrate of the district holds a court here once in a week.

Buffalo Brook--a beautiful stream rising under Ben Lomond, and joining the South Esk near Eastbourne.

Burford--a village in the parish of St. Alban and county of Cumberland, about 60 miles from Hobart.

Burgess--a township at Port Sorell, in the county of Devon, on the northern coast, 157 miles
from Hobart and 60 from Launceston. It has a resident police magistrate, a small episcopal
church and school, and a post station.

Burghley--a village on the Leven, near the Surrey Hills, in the county of Devon. It is on the
road through the western district, about 60 miles from Launceston. The Van Diemen's Land Company
has a station here.

Burnham--a village in the parish of Cambridge and county of Monmouth, about 40 miles from Hobart.

Cam--a river rising in the Hampshire Hills, and falling into Bass' Strait a few miles west
of Emu Bay.

Campbell Town--a town in the parish of Campbelton and county of Somerset, 89 miles from Hobart,
and 42 from Launceston. It is situated in a level pastoral country, on the Elizabeth River,
and the main road from Hobart to Launceston passes through it. The town consists chiefly of
one long street, in which are four large inns, a brewery, some stores, small shops, and an
assembly room. There are in the town an episcopal and presbyterian church (St. Luke's and St.
Andrew's), a Wesleyan Chapel, and schools. The river is crossed by a bridge or causeway, 200
yards long, and on the southern side are numerous fine farms. The road to Avoca, Fingal, and
the eastern coast here branches off from the main line. In the town there are also a gaol and
police and post offices. There is a resident police magistrate. The population of the town
and police district is 2,319, and the number of houses, 255 of which are of stone or brick,
is 386. Campbell Town is also an electoral district. It is considered to be the middle district
of the colony, and the Midland Agricultural Association originated here. R. Q. Kermode, Esq.,
is the first member for Campbell Town.

Carlton--a village and post station on the stream of that name, in the parish of Carlton, and
county of Pembroke, about 35 miles from Hobart. The Carlton falls into North Bay, below Pittwater.

Carrick--a township and post-station on the west bank of the Liffey and western road, in the
parish of Carrick and county of Westmoreland, 113 miles from Hobart and 10 from Launceston.
The Liffey is crossed by a bridge at the township. There are a small episcopal church and day
school, a mill, a brewery, and three inns. Annual races are held near the township.

Catemara--a small stream falling into Recherche Bay, in the county of Kent.

Circular Head--a bold promontory, 500 feet high, forming part of a small peninsula in the north-west
corner of the island, about 30 miles east of Cape Grim. It is seen at sea at the distance of
10 leagues. It is 280 miles from Hobart, and 160 from Launceston, and here the western road
terminates. The town of Stanley, which stands on the eastern side, contains an episcopal church,
a Roman catholic chapel, a post station, a custom-house, three inns, and some substantial buildings.
It has also a benevolent society, and schools. There is a resident police magistrate. The Van
Diemen's Land Company has an extensive establishment here, and a considerable trade is carried
on between the settlers in the neighborhood and Victoria, to which large quantities of timber,
potatoes, and other produce grown on the fertile farms on the coast, are shipped in small vessels
belonging to the port. The town and district of Stanley have greatly advanced during the last
ten years, under the intelligent management of Mr. Gibson, the company's agent. The failure
of the previous management may be traced to those general causes which have always prevented
the success of similar companies, when they have attempted cultivation and grazing. Mr. Gibson
urged upon the company the importance of establishing a tenantry, and succeeded in attracting
a considerable rural population by offering advantageous terms to small farmers. The arrangements
made with them, from the depression of prices, proved unfavorable to the company, but the prosperity
of their tenants has probably firmly fixed a population on their estates, which will ultimately
indemnify them for all their losses. Occupying a geographical position highly favorable to
trade, and in the vicinity of extensive forests of valuable timber, there can be no doubt that
within a few years their settlements will become of great importance. Within a few hours' sail
of Port Phillip and South Australia, their timber will find an increasing market, and enable
their settlers to turn to good account what often elsewhere proves an incumbrance. The population
of the district, which is called Horton, is about 900, and the number of houses 137.

Clarence Plains--a cultivated and fertile district on the east bank of the Derwent, nearly
opposite Hobart. It contains the villages of Rokeby, Kangaroo Point, and Bellerive.

Cleveland--a village in the parish of Cleveland and county of Somerset, on the main road, 91
miles from Hobart, and 30 from Launceston. There are a small chapel, two inns, a post and police
station, with a district constable. The police magistrate of Campbell Town holds a court here
once in a week. A branch road to the eastern coast breaks off at the township, and Epping Forest
is a short distance on the Launceston side of it. The country near Cleveland consists chiefly
of grazing farms.

Clyde--a river which divides the county of Monmouth from Cumberland, and falls into the Derwent
above the township of Macquarie, about 40 miles from Hobart. It waters, together with the Dee,
Ouse, Shannon, and Jordan, a fine district of the same name.

Coal River--a stream rising in the northern part of the county of Monmouth, and falling into
the bay of Pittwater, at Richmond. The Wallaby and Kangaroo rivers fall into it.

Cocked Hat Hill--a name given to a hill on the side of the main road, 8 miles from Launceston.
A fine view of the Tamar is obtained from its top. There are a post and police station, a small
church, and an inn in the village at this place, where the roads to Perth and Evandale separate.

Colebrooke--a village in the parish of Ormaig, and county of Monmouth, about 30 miles from
Hobart. It has a small episcopal church and school.

Cornwallis--a village in the parish of Cornwallis and county of Somerset, about 80 miles from
Hobart.

Cornwall--a northern county and electoral district. Launceston is in this county. J. W. Gleadow,
Esq., is the first member for the district.

Cullenswood--a small village and post station at St. Paul's Plains. It has a small episcopal
church.

Cumberland--a midland county and electoral district. Bothwell is the principal town. W. S.
Sharland, Esq., is the first member for the district.

Deloraine--a township and post station on the Meander, in the parish of Calstock, and county
of Westmoreland, 132 miles from Hobart, and 30 from Launceston. It contains a small episcopal
church and a Wesleyan chapel, and three inns. There is a police station with a district constable,
and the assistant police magistrate of Westbury holds a court twice in a week. About 15 miles
from Deloraine, in the Western Mountains, are situated the great caves, which, in extent and
beauty, perhaps equal subterranean wonders of more celebrity. They have not often been visited;
but those who have seen them describe them as being extremely grand and beautiful. The entrance
of the principal cave, which is considerably more than two miles in length, is in the limestone
rock, at the upper extremity of a narrow ravine, down which flows the stream which issues from
the mouth of the cave, and extends throughout its whole length. The opening is thirty feet
high, and fifty or sixty in width. At a considerable distance from the entrance light is admitted
by two openings in the roof, the only ones throughout the whole extent of the cave, and when
these are passed the full beauty of the scene breaks upon the view of the visitor. Stalactites
of every form, hang like icicles from the roof; some presenting the appearance of inverted
cones, others that of glistening semi-transparent tubes, about the thickness of a pipe stem,
and several yards in length. In some parts, the stalactites, meeting with their opposite stalagmites,
form pillars in appearance supporting a roof of immense height. In other places they assume
the form of elegant and flowing drapery thrown over the huge rocks that project from the sides
of the cavern. The fringes of this drapery, when struck by any hard substance, give forth a
ringing sound, and every variety of note, high or low, according to their respective lengths.
The floor is covered with stalagmites of every form, and it sparkles as if paved with diamonds.
If the visitor extinguish his torch, myriads of glow-worms are seen to cover the roof and walls,
emitting a faint blue light, and making the surrounding stalactites appear like spectres in
the gloom. As the spectator proceeds, new objects of wonder appear. In some places the stalactites,
shooting out in all directions, into innumerable small fibres, appear like fret-work along
the roof; in others like masses of elegant drapery, extending fold above fold, to the height
of thirty or forty feet, from the floor to the roof. Near the entrance of the cave they are
of a grey or brownish color, but in the interior they are of a pure white. There are several
chambers, some of great beauty, which branch off from the main passage, and have been formed
by the rivulet which passes through the cave. Others will probably yet be discovered in the
Western Mountains.

Denbigh--a township in the parish of that name, and county of Somerset, on the Lake River,
about 80 miles from Hobart.

D'Entrecasteaux--the name of the channel between the main land and Bruni Island, so called
after the French admiral who first sailed through it. A small river of the same name flows
into Recherche Bay. On the western side of the entrance of the channel is the reef on which
the Acteon was wrecked, in 1822.

Derwent--a river which rises at Lake St. Clair, in the western mountains, and flows through
the county of Buckingham, which is well watered by it and its numerous tributaries. The land
on the banks of the Derwent is fertile, with occasional tracts well adapted for grazing and
pastoral purposes. In the upper Derwent there is a fall of some magnificence, and the scenery
on the banks of the river is various and beautiful. The Derwent receives in its course the
waters of the Dee, (flowing from Lake Esk) Clyde, Jones, Ouse, Styx, Plenty, and Thames. From
its source to Hobart it is about 70 miles long, and to its entrance at Storm Bay 85 miles.

Devon--a northern county.

Douglass--a river in Glamorgan, on the eastern coast. Excellent coal is procured in its neighborhood.

Dulcott--a township in the parish of Forbes, and county of Monmouth, about 60 miles from Hobart.

Eastbourne--a township in the parish of Eastbourne, and county of Cornwall, near the South Esk.

East Grinstead--a township in Somerset, about 80 miles from Hobart.

Ebrington--a township in Cumberland.

Elderslie--a village near the Jordan, in the parish of Wallace and county of Monmouth, about
40 miles from Hobart.

Eldon--a range of hills on the western side of the island, southward of the river Macintosh.

Emu Bay--a harbor on the northern coast, about 45 miles west of the Tamar heads. The Van Diemen's
Land Company has an establishment at Emu Bay, and there is also a police and post station and
an inn. The road to Circular Head passes by the bay. The country here abounds with timber,
of which large quantities are exported. A stream called the Emu falls into the bay.

Enfield--a township in the parish of Staffa and county of Monmouth, about 20 miles from Hobart.

Esperance--a harbor on the south-eastern coast, into which falls a river of the same name.

Evandale--a town in the parish of that name and county of Cornwall, 115 miles from Hobart and
11 from Launceston. It is prettily situated on the eastern side of the South Esk, and contains
several substantial brick buildings, three large inns, and a steam flour mill. It has a resident
magistrate and a post station. There are two well-built, neat, and commodious churches (episcopalian
and presbyterian), a Wesleyan chapel, and a good subscription library.

Evercreech--a township in the parish of that name, and county of Cornwall, about 120 miles
from Hobart.

Exeter--a village on the west bank of the Tamar, about 15 miles below Launceston.

Falmouth--a township near St Patrick's Head, in Cornwall, on the eastern coast, 141 miles from
Hobart and 104 from Launceston. There is a post station here and an inn. The produce of some
of the farms on the coast is forwarded to Hobart by sea from this place.

Fingal--a township in the parish of Fingal and county of Cornwall, on the southern side of
the South Esk. It is 100 miles from Hobart and 70 from Launceston. The road from Campbell Town
to the east coast passes through it. On the banks of the Esk in this district are many fine
farms, as well as tracts of pasture land. There is a resident police magistrate and a post
station at Fingal, and two inns. There are 877 persons in the township and district, and 134
houses. About 11 miles beyond Fingal the road has been carried with immense labor, to a distance
of 5 miles round the face of a high, rocky, and almost perpendicular hill, called St. Mary's
Pass. On one side the hill towers above the traveller, and on the other he sees a precipice
of many hundred feet. Gold has been discovered in the neighborhood.

Forth--a fine river in Devon, falling into Bass' Strait, between the Mersey and the Leven.

Frankland--the name of a range of hills on the western side of the island. A mountain called
the Frenchman's Cap, 3,800 feet high, is near this range.

Franklin--a township on the river Huon, in the county of Buckingham, about 28 miles from Hobart
and 149 from Launceston. It has an assistant police magistrate, an episcopal church and school,
and a post station.

Franklin--a village on the main road, 117 miles from Hobart and 3 from Launceston. It contains
a small church, an excellent private school, and two inns. About half a mile on the south side
of the village there is a substantial stone bridge crossing a deep ravine.

George Town--a town in the parish of George Town and county of Dorset, 153 miles from Hobart,
and 32 from Launceston. It is situated on the shore of a small bay of the Tamar, about 4 miles
from the entrance. It was originally intended to fix the northern head-quarters at George Town,
but the scarcity of water, and some other local disadvantages, caused the abandonment of the
plan. The town is now chiefly supplied from Launceston, many inhabitants of which resort to
it as a summer residence. It contains a small church, a school, three inns, and has a resident
magistrate and a post station. The population of the town and district is 601, the number of
houses 115. There is a road to George Town down the eastern side of the Tamar, but communication
is chiefly carried on by water.... Outward-bound vessels waiting for a fair wind usually anchor
off George Town, where there is a convenient bay.

Glenorchy--a township and post station in the parish of Glenorchy and county of Buckingham,
7 miles from Hobart, near New Town.

Gordon--a river on the western coast. It passes through a wild and romantic country, and falls
into Macquarie Harbor.

Great Swan Port--a bay on the eastern coast. A river of the same name falls into it. The district
has a police magistrate, an episcopal and a presbyterian church, and a post station. The population
of the town and district is 1,684, and the number of houses 274, 105 being of stone or brick.

Green Ponds--a district and township 29 miles north of Hobart, on the main road. It is situated
in a fine valley, at the southern entrance of which is Constitution Hill. There is a church
(St. Mary's) and school, a congregational chapel, two inns, and a police and post station.
The assistant police magistrate of Brighton holds a court at Green Ponds twice in a week.

Grindlewald--a township in the parish of Denbigh and county of Somerset, about 80 miles from
Hobart.

Hadspen--a village on the Westbury road, in the parish of Launceston, 128 miles from Hobart.
There is a small church, a Wesleyan chapel, an inn and a post station. The South Esk is crossed
by a wooden bridge at this place.

Hamilton--a town on the Clyde in the parish of Hamilton and county of Monmouth, 43 miles from
Hobart and 93 from Launceston. There is a church (St. Peter's) and school, two inns, and other
buildings in the township, which has also a resident police magistrate and a post station.
The population, including that of the district, is 1,415, and the number of houses 281.

Hobart--in the parish of Hobarton, and county of Buckingham, is the chief town of the colony,
and is in lat. 42°. 53'. S., and long. 147°. 21'. E. It was named after Lord Hobart, once secretary
for the colonies; and stands on the shores of Sullivan's Cove, about 15 miles from the entrance
of the Derwent. It is finely situated on a rising ground, and covers a surface of nearly two
square miles. On the western side it is bounded by a range of wooded hills, with Mount Wellington,
a snow-capped mountain, 4,000 feet high, in the back-ground. On the southern side of the harbor
there are many beautiful residences, and, on a commanding eminence, fine military barracks.
Close to the harbor, on the western side, stands the government-house, an extensive range of
wooden buildings, erected at different times. Mulgrave Battery is on the southern side of the
harbor. The streets are regular and well made; and many of the buildings--some built of freestone--are
commodious and handsome. The wharves are extensive and well constructed, and are lined with
numerous large stone warehouses and stores. St. David's church is a large well-built brick
edifice, in the Gothic style, stuccoed, and well fitted up. The court house, nearly opposite
the church, is a large stone building, containing various offices. The hospital and prisoners'
barracks, on the north-eastern side, are extensive buildings. The police office is a substantial
edifice. The female factory and orphan schools, a short distance from the town, on the western
side, are commodious buildings. The commissariat stores, the treasury, the bonded stores, the
custom-house, and other public buildings are built of freestone. The legislative council chamber
is included in the custom-house. On the north side of the harbor are situated the engineer
stores and other government buildings. On this side also is the government domain, a large
open piece of ground, used as a place of amusement and exercise. The magnetical observatory
is erected here. Many of the shops are large and handsome. Besides St. David's (the cathedral
church), there are three handsome episcopalian churches--Trinity, St. George's, and St. John's.
There are two presbyterian churches--St. Andrew's and St. John's--both commodious buildings--one
Roman catholic church, two Wesleyan chapels, three congregational churches, a baptist chapel,
a free presbyterian church, and a synagogue. There are four banks and a bank for savings, three
local and two English insurance companies, and a company to establish steam communication with
the adjoining colonies. The educational establishments are the High School and Hutchins' School,
besides private schools. The public institutions are the Mechanics' Institute, the Tasmanian
Society of Natural Science, the Royal Society, the Public Library, Gardeners' and Amateurs'
Horticultural Society, St. Mary's Hospital, Dispensary and Humane Society, Dorcas Society,
Hebrew Benevolent Institution, Asylum for the protection of destitute and unfortunate females,
Branch Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge and for the Propagation of the Gospel, Auxiliary
Bible Society, Wesleyan Library and Tract Society, Society for the Propagation of the Gospel
in Foreign Parts, Auxiliary London Missionary Society, Wesleyan Missionary Society, Colonial
Missionary and Christian Instruction Society, Infant School, Auxiliary of British and Foreign
School Society, Wesleyan Strangers' Friend Society, Sunday School Union (including eight schools),
three Masonic Lodges, Masonic Benevolent Fund, three Odd-fellow's Lodges, with Widows' and
Orphans' Funds attached, Independent Order of Rechabites, Hibernian Benefit Society, four Temperance
Societies, Society of Licensed Victuallers, Choral Society, Mercantile Assistants' Association,
Turf Club, Bathing Association. There are a wet dock and a patent slip, and 170 vessels belonging
to the port, their collective tonnage being 14,640. The population is 23,107, and the number
of houses 4,050; 2,932 of which are of stone or brick. Five bi-weekly newspapers and a Government
Gazette are published in Hobart. T. D. Chapman, Esq., and J. Dunn, jun., Esq., are the first
members of council for the city.

Huon--a river which falls into the sea about 30 miles below Hobart. At its mouth there is a
pretty island of 300 acres, also called Huon. On the northern side of the river, about 5 miles
from the entrance, there is a beautiful bay, named by the French discoverers the Port of Swans.
The banks of the stream are finely wooded, and the timber, of which immense quantities are
cut, is of great value. Fine spars for shipbuilding purposes are found here, as well as the
mimosa bark. Ships of considerable tonnage can ascend the river for a distance of many miles.
In the upper part of the river grows the valuable pine, to which the name of the district has
been given. Many of the trees attain to a gigantic size, and some have measured ninety feet
in circumference. The district contains on the banks of the Huon many fine farms, and the population
is 2,988; the number of houses, 570. Richard Cleburne, Esq., is the first member for the district.

Hythe--a township at South Port, a harbor on the western side of Entrecasteaux's Channel. The
township stands on the South Port river, which falls into the bay, and is about 50 miles from
Hobart.

Ilfracombe--a village on the west bank of the Tamar, 25 miles from Launceston.

Invermay--a village near Launceston, on the road to George Town.

Isis--a beautiful river in Somerset, falling into the Macquarie, about 6 miles north of the
village of Lincoln, which, with Auburn, stands on its banks.

Jericho--a township and post station on the Jordan, in the parish of Spring Hill and county
of Monmouth, 43 miles from Hobart, and 78 from Launceston. On the southern side is the district
called Lovely Banks.

Jerusalem--a township in the parish of Ormaig and county of Monmouth, 28 miles from Hobart,
near the source of the Coal River. A police magistrate's court is held here once in a week,
and there is a post station. An episcopalian clergyman is stationed at this place, and ministers
of other denominations occasionally officiate in the district.

Jordan--a river flowing from a lagoon near Oatlands, and falling into the Derwent at Herdsman's
Cove. It passes by Brighton.

Kangaroo Point--a village on the eastern side of the Derwent, opposite Hobart. A police magistrate's
court is held there twice in a week, and there is a post station, a chapel, and a school. After
crossing the Derwent, the road from Hobart to Richmond and Sorell begins at this place.

Kelso Bay--a small bay on the western side of the Tamar, opposite George Town. There are several
marine residences on its shores.

King--a small river rising near Mount Sorell, on the western side of the island, and falling
into Macquarie Harbor.

Kingston--a town at the entrance of Brown's River, about 10 miles south of Hobart, and 130
from Launceston. It has an episcopal church and school, and a post station.

Lakes--In the south-eastern part of the county of Westmoreland lay several large lakes,--Great
Lake, Crescent Lake, Arthur's Lake, Lake Sorell, and Lake Echo. The first has a circumference
of about 90 miles; the others vary from 10 to 30 miles round. They are situated on high land,
amidst magnificent and picturesque scenery. They are frequented by innumerable quantities of
black swans, and game of every kind, and large flocks of kangaroos and emus are found in their
vicinity.

Lake River--a considerable stream which rises among the lakes in the south-eastern part of
Westmoreland, and joins the South Esk at Longford.

Launceston--in the parish of Launceston and county of Cornwall, is the second town of the colony,
and is in lat. 41°. 24'. S., and lon. 147°. 10'. E. It stands at the confluence of the North
and South Esk rivers, which here discharge their waters into the Tamar. It is 121 miles from
Hobart, and 40 from the sea at Port Dalrymple. On the east and west it is bounded by hills,
and on the north stretches the valley of the Tamar. The town is well laid out, and viewed from
the hills which overlook it, or from the Tamar, it has a picturesque appearance. The wharves,
which afford accommodation to vessels of large tonnage, extend along the river which forms
the northern boundary. Farther up are numerous spacious stores and other commercial buildings.
There are two large episcopalian churches, a handsome presbyterian church, a Roman catholic
church (all built in the Gothic style), a Wesleyan chapel, two congregational chapels, a free
church, a baptist chapel, and a synagogue, all neat and commodious buildings. The court house,
the gaol, the house of correction, female factory, and several other government establishments,
are large and well-built. Many of the shops, offices, inns, and private buildings are of considerable
size and respectable appearance. On the hill which bounds the town on the eastern side, and
commands a splendid view of the town and river, are many private residences and gardens. There
are four banks, four insurance offices, three printing establishments, and two bi-weekly newspapers.
The principal public offices are the police office, the custom-house, the post office, and
the port office. The population of the town is 10,855, the number of houses, 2,181; 798 of
which are of stone or brick. There are an episcopal grammar school, a Wesleyan day school,
an infant school, three episcopal day schools, a catholic school, seven Sunday schools, and
numerous private schools. The public institutions, besides the banks and insurance offices,
are a mechanics' institute and reading room, a library society, several circulating libraries,
two horticultural societies, a benevolent society, auxiliary bible society, two masonic lodges,
odd fellows society, rechabite society, and a teetotal society. There are 70 vessels belonging
to the port, their collective tonnage being 8,564 tons. There is also a floating dock. Richard
Dry, Esq., the hon. the speaker of the Legislative Council, is the first member for the electoral
district of Launceston.

Leipsic--a township in Cornwall, at the St. Paul's River.

Leven--a river which rises near Mount Gipps in the county of Devon, and falls into Bass' Strait,
about 10 miles east of Emu Bay.

Liffey--a small stream in Westmoreland which falls into the Meander or Western river, a short
distance north of Carrick, which stands on its banks.

Lincoln--a village in Somerset at the junction of the rivers Macquarie and Isis, about 95 miles
from Hobart, and 30 from Launceston. It contains an inn and a few houses.

Little Swan Port--a boat harbor at Oyster Bay, on the eastern coast. A stream of the same name
falls into it.

Llewellyn--a small village in Somerset, on the road from Campbell Town to the eastern coast,
near the South Esk.

Longford--a town prettily situated at the junction of the rivers Lake and South Esk, in the
parish of Longford and county of Westmoreland, 115 miles from Hobart, and 14 from Launceston.
The population of the town and district is 3,829, and the number of houses 595, half of which
are of stone or brick. It has a resident police magistrate, (who is also deputy chairman of
quarter sessions and the court of requests,) a postmaster, and other officers. It contains
a neat episcopal church, built in the Gothic style, several schools, a Wesleyan chapel, a court
house and gaol, several large inns, a brewery, a mill, and many substantial buildings. Longford
is also an electoral district, for which Joseph Archer, Esq., is the first member.

Macquarie--a river which rises in the northern part of the county of Monmouth, and flowing
through Somerset, by Ross and Lincoln, joins the Lake after receiving the waters of the Elizabeth,
Blackman's, and Isis. The district through which the Macquarie flows, is one of the finest
in the island, and on its banks are the residences of numerous settlers. On the eastern bank,
about five miles from Campbell Town, there is a presbyterian church, having a resident minister.
There is also a post station.

Macquarie Harbor--a large bay on the western coast, into which fall the rivers King and Gordon.
There was once a penal settlement here, but it has long been abandoned. The country along this
part of the coast, and to a considerable distance inland, has not yet been opened up, and is
little known. It is high, and in some places rocky and mountainous. Pine of good quality is
procured in the neighbourhood.

Macquarie Plains--a district in Cumberland, on the northern side of the Derwent. It contains
several sheep and agricultural farms, and the village of Macquarie, 39 miles from Hobart, which
contains a church and post station.

Maitland--a township on the Isis.

Maria Island--(so named by Tasman), an island off the eastern coast of the county of Pembroke,
about 7 miles from the main land. A narrow sandy isthmus connects the northern and southern
parts of the island, and has on its western side Oyster Bay, and on the eastern Reidle Bay.
The scenery is romantic and picturesque. The northern and southern coasts are high and rocky.
In the northern part there is a remarkable mountain, 3,000 feet high, on the summit of which
are two rocks projecting one above the other, called the Bishop and Clerk. The base is composed
of petrified shells. Near here on a small stream is the penal settlement of Darlington, at
which are several government buildings, the residences of a commandant, magistrate, religious
instructors, and other officers, and a post station.

Marlborough--a village in Cumberland, near the Ouse. The assistant police magistrate of Hamilton
holds a court here, and at the bridge on the Ouse once in a week.

Meander--a small stream which rises in the western mountains, and, passing Deloraine, falls
into the South Esk at Hadspen. The Dairy, Quamby, and Liffey rivulets fall into it.

Mersey--a considerable river in Westmoreland, which rises in the western mountains, and falls
into Bass' Strait, about 10 miles west of Port Sorell. Its mouth forms a small harbour, called
Port Frederic. There is a village called Frogmore at this place, where timber is cut and exported.
Coal has been found in the neighbourhood.

Montague--a small stream falling into Bass' Strait, in the north west corner of the island.

Morven--a northern electoral district. It consists of agricultural farms, and Evandale is the
chief town. The town and district contain 2,311 inhabitants, and 372 houses. James Cox, Esq.,
is the first member for the district.

Mountains--The principal mountains are the western range in Westmoreland, of which the highest
point is Quamby's or Dry's Bluff, 4,590 feet above the sea; a high rocky range in Cornwall,
of which Ben Lomond and Ben Nevis are the highest points, and the Eldon range. A range extends
along the western coast, and another farther inland, of which the highest points are the Frenchman's
Cap, 3,800 feet above the sea; Mount Arrowsmith, east of the former, 4,075 feet high; Mount
Humboldt, 5,520 feet; Cradle Mountain, 4,700 feet. St. Valentine's Peak, on the Van Diemen's
Land Company's estate, is 4,000 feet high; Mount Wellington, near Hobart Town, 4,195 feet.

Neville--a township in the parish of Abergavenny and county of Cumberland, on the Clyde.

New Norfolk--a town in the parish of New Norfolk and county of Buckingham, on the Derwent and
Lachlan rivulet, 21 miles from Hobart, and 119 from Launceston. It has a resident police magistrate
and post master, and contains an episcopal church (St. Matthew's) and school, a Wesleyan chapel,
and another place of worship, a police office, a government house, an asylum for insane persons,
and several inns. The population of the town and district is 2,226, and the number of houses,
389. The district contains several fine farms. Coaches run daily to New Norfolk from Hobart,
and communication between the two places is also carried on by means of boats on the Derwent.
New Norfolk is also an electoral district, for which M. Fenton, Esq., is the first member.

Newtown--a town in the parish of Hobart and county of Buckingham, 2 miles north of Hobart,
and 119 from Launceston. It contains an episcopal church (St. John's) and school, a handsome
congregational chapel, the Queen's orphan schools, two inns, a post station, and several handsome
private residences.

Nile--a small river which rises near Ben Lomond and falls into the South Esk, about 10 miles
south of Evandale.

Nive--a river which forms the western boundary of the county of Cumberland, and falls into
the Derwent.

Norfolk Plains--a fine district in the north-eastern part of Westmoreland, between the rivers
Lake, South Esk, and Liffey. It consists chiefly of small agricultural farms, and contains
the towns of Longford and Carrick, and the villages of Bishopsbourne and Cressy. Cressy is
on the estate of the Van Diemen's Land Establishment, and has a small episcopal church, a Wesleyan
chapel, and an inn.

North Esk--a river which rises in the Ben Lomond range, in the eastern part of the county of
Cornwall, and falls into the Tamar at Launceston. The St. Patrick's river, a small stream,
falls into it.

Oatlands--a considerable town in the parish of Oatlands and county of Monmouth, 51 miles from
Hobart, and 70 from Launceston. It contains an episcopal (St. Matthew's) and Roman catholic
church, a Wesleyan chapel, several schools, a gaol, police and post offices, a military station,
several inns, and other large buildings. It has a resident police magistrate, and courts of
request and quarter sessions are held in the town. The supreme court sits twice in a year.
The population of the town and police district is 1,873, and the number of houses 279. Oatlands
is also an electoral district, for which H. F. Anstey, Esq., is the first member.

Orielton--a village in the parish of Sorell, and county of Pembroke, on the eastern side of
Pittwater Bay.

Ouse--a considerable river which rises in the western side of the county of Westmoreland, and
falls into the Derwent in the southern part of Cumberland. At the bridge on the upper part
of the river, there is a village, containing a church and school house, and a post and police
station. The assistant police magistrate of Hamilton holds a court here once in a week.

Oyster Bay--a harbor on the eastern coast. The rivers Swan and Little Swan Port and other streams
fall into it. The road from Prossor's to St. Paul's Plains is along its western side, and on
the eastern side is Shouten's Island, where coal of good quality is procured. The bay has several
boat harbors. There are several farms on the western side. There is a bay of the same name
on the western side of Maria Island.

Patterson's Plains--a district in Cornwall, lying south-west of Launceston. It is watered by
the North Esk, on which are two flour mills, and a bridge. The district has a small episcopal
church and school, and a Wesleyan chapel.

Pedder--a lake and river on the western side of the island, named after the Chief Justice.

Perth--a town on the northern bank of the South Esk, in the parish of Perth and county of Cornwall,
110 miles from Hobart, and 11 from Launceston. It has an episcopal church and school, a Wesleyan
chapel, three inns, and a police and post station. The South Esk is crossed at this place by
one of the best stone bridges in the island.

Picton--a township in the parish of Dysart and county of Monmouth.

Piper's--a small river in Dorset, which falls into Bass' Strait, near Stony Head.

Plenty--a small stream in Buckingham, falling into the Derwent above New Norfolk.

Port Arthur--one of the penal settlements on Tasman's Peninsula.

Port Dalrymple--the entrance of the Tamar, so called by Captain Flinders, in honor of the hydrographer
to the admiralty.

Port Davey--a large harbor, lying on the south-western coast.

Ramsgate--a village on the shore of D'Entrecasteaux's channel, in Kent.

Richmond--a town at the mouth of the Coal River, in the parish of Ulva and county of Monmouth,
15 miles from Hobart, and 100 from Launceston. It contains an episcopal and a catholic church,
a congregational chapel, a police office, post station, a gaol, and court house, and several
inns. It has a resident police magistrate, and the population of the town and district, which
consists of farms, is 3,144, and the number of houses 545, nearly half of which are of stone
or brick. The Coal River, which here falls into the bay of Pittwater, is crossed at the town
by an excellent stone bridge of six arches. Richmond is an electoral district, for which T.
G. Gregson, Esq., is the first member.

Risdon--a village at Clarence Plains, nearly opposite Hobart. There is a ferry at this place,
which was the site of the first settlement in the colony.

Rochford--a township in Cumberland.

Ross--a township on the Macquarie, in the parish of Ross and county of Somerset, 73 miles from
Hobart, 47 from Launceston, and 6 from Campbell Town. It contains an episcopal church and school,
a chapel, a police and post station, and two inns. The police magistrate of Campbell Town holds
a court here once in a week. There is a bridge across the Macquarie at this township. The district
is chiefly agricultural.

Rugby--a township on the Derwent, in the parish of Sutherland and county of Buckingham.

Shannon--a river which rises at the Great Lake in Westmoreland, and falls into the Ouse.

Shepton Montacute--a township in Monmouth.

Sidmouth--a village on the west bank of the Tamar, about 20 miles from Launceston. There is
a presbyterian church here, and a resident minister.

Sorell--a town in the parish of Sorell and county of Pembroke, 23 miles from Hobart, and 144
from Launceston. It has an episcopal church (St. George's) and school, a presbyterian church,
a police and post office, and other public buildings. There is a resident police magistrate.
The population of the town and district is 3,354, and the number of houses 370. A small stream
falls into the bay of Pittwater, close to the town. The district is electoral; Askin Morrison,
Esq., is the first member.

South Esk--a considerable river which rises in the eastern part of the county of Dorset, and
after a circuitous course, in which it passes the towns of Fingal, Avoca, Evandale, Perth,
and Longford, falls into the Tamar at Launceston. About half a mile from the place where it
joins the Tamar, the river forms a considerable basin, surrounded by lofty hills, and having
a water-fall at the upper part. A few yards lower down, there is another cataract--one of the
most magnificent in the island--and the river continues its course to the Tamar between two
high and almost perpendicular hills. Along one of these hills a wooden aqueduct is carried,
which conveys water to turn a mill and supply the town. The river is crossed here by a ferry,
which leads to the road down the western side of the Tamar. The view up the Esk at this place
is one of the most picturesque in the colony.

South Port--a harbor on the western side of D'Entrecasteaux Channel.

Styx--a branch of the river Derwent in Buckingham.

Summerleas--a township in the parish of Kingborough and county of Buckingham.

Swansea--a township in Glamorgan on the western side of Oyster Bay, 74 miles from Hobart, and
194 from Launceston. It has a police and post station.

Tamar--a fine river in Cornwall, at the head of which stands the town of Launceston. It is
navigable from its entrance to the town--about forty miles--for ships of 600 tons, and is of
considerable width--in some places of three miles. At the wharves at Launceston the tide rises
from twelve to fourteen feet. On the banks of the river are some good farms, and the scenery
is generally picturesque.

Tasman's--a large peninsula forming the south-eastern part of the county of Pembroke. There
is a smaller one, called Forrester's, between it and the main land. Tasman's Peninsula has
several fine bays, and contains some penal stations.

Tenby--a township at Spring Bay in the county of Pembroke.

Tierney--a township in the Lake River.

Trent--a small river in Devon, which falls into Bass' Strait, near Rocky Cape.

Triabunna--a village at Prossor's Bay.

Tunbridge--a town in the parish of Maxwell and county of Somerset, a few miles south of Ross,
on a small stream called Blackman's River, which falls into the Macquarie.

Victoria--a village on the river Huon.

Westbury--a town in the parish of Westbury and county of Westmoreland, 140 miles from Hobart,
and 20 from Launceston. It has a resident police magistrate, a postmaster, and other officers,
and contains an episcopal church and school, a Roman catholic church and school, a Wesleyan
chapel, and three inns. The town and district has a population of 2,842, and 420 houses. William
Archer, jun., Esq., is the first member for the electoral district.

Windermere--a village on the eastern bank of the Tamar, about 15 miles from Launceston. It
has an episcopal church and a mill.

Wye--a branch of the Swan Port River. Black Tom, executed, was not the murderer of Mr. Osborne,
     but a servant of Mrs. Birch of the same name.

     Page 27, for "north-east belonging," read "north-west."

     Page 71, for "1839," read "1830."

     Page 71, for "Oyster Bay," read "Oyster Cove."

     Page 90, for "Monododo," read "Monboddo."

     Page 92, for "aborigina," read "aborigine."

     Note, page 101. Conditional servitude, under indentures or
     covenants, had from the first existed in Virginia. The servant
     stood to his master in the relation of a debtor bound to repay the
     cost of his emigration by employing his powers for the benefit of
     his creditors--oppression easily ensued. Men who had been
     transported to Virginia at the expense of £10, were sometimes sold
     for £40 or £50, or even for £60. The supply of white servants
     became a regular business, and a class of men, nick-named
     "spirits," used to delude young persons and idlers into embarking
     for America as to a land of plenty. White servants came to be a
     usual article of traffic. They were sold in England to be
     transported, and in Virginia, were resold to the highest bidder. In
     1672, the average prices for five years service when due, was about
     £10.--Bancroft, vol. i. p. 175. They have not been sold for
     slaves, to perpetual servitude, but for six, or seven, or eight
     years, as we do our own; and he that bought the most of them I
     hear, buildeth for every four of them a house, and layeth some
     acres of ground thereto, which he giveth them as their own,
     requiring them three days of the week to work for him by turns, and
     four days for themselves, and promises as soon as they can repay
     him the money laid out for them, he will set them at
     liberty."--Letter to Cromwell, by Mather Cotton: Carlyle's Letters
     and Speeches, vol. ii. p. 349.

     Page 102. "I beseech your Majesty that I may inform that each
     person will be worth ten pounds, if not fifteen pounds a-piece. Letters (countersigned by
     Sunderland) to the Governor of Virginia, Oct., 1685--Bancroft,
     vol. ii. p. 25.

     Page 102. "Good God! where am I? In Bristol! This city it seems,
     claims the privilege of hanging and drawing among themselves. I
     find you have more need of a special commission once a month at
     least. The very magistrates that should be ministers of justice,
     fall out with one another to that degree, that they will scarcely
     dine together, and yet I find they can agree for their interests if
     there be a kid in the case, for I hear that kidnapping is much in
     request in this city. You discharge a felon or traitor, provided he
     will go to Mr. Alderman's plantations in the West
     Indies."--Jefferies Speech: Life of Lord Keeper Guilford, by Roger
     North, vol. ii. p. 113.

     Note, page 121. A commission was appointed to enquire into those
     allegations, and their report fell into the hands of the author
     after the account of the Amphitrite was printed. It does not
     appear, that the imputations of sordid calculation were well
     grounded, and no bond would have been enforced for an unavoidable
     breach of contract.

     Page 148, for "free women," read "freed women."

     Page 149, for "Macarthur's New South Wales," read "Mudie's
     Felonry."

     Page 151, for "12,000," read "1,200 houses."

     Page 155, for "regarded by," read "appeared to."

     Page 166. Rev. S. Marsden. A pamphlet was published by Mr. Marsden,
     called A Statement Relative to Illegal Punishment (1828). A
     warrant to this effect was produced:--"Sitting magistrates--Henry
     Grattan Douglas, Esq., and Rev. S. Marsden. James Blackburn,
     attached to the prisoners' barracks, ordered to receive twenty-five
     lashes every morning until he tells who were the four men in
     company with him gambling." This warrant, Mr. Marsden
     declared a forgery. Other charges were made of the same character,
     but they were refuted by Mr. Marsden. He proved his absence from
     the bench when sentences of torture were passed. In the text there
     is an apparent leaning to the charge, but there appears no fair
     ground to reject Mr. Marsden's refutation, which is most decisive
     as to his own participation in this revolting practice.

     Page 189, for "real name," read "known name."

     Page 271, for "primitive," read "punitive."

     Page 321, for "Report of Institutions," read "Report of Hanwell
     Institution."

     Page 335. The long delay in the publication of this work has given
     time for several important changes in the aspect of convict
     discipline. The local government of Van Diemen's Land, resolved in
     November, 1850, to restore the practice of assignment, and notices
     for this purpose were issued.

     Thus the convict was bound to serve his master according to the
     duration of his sentence, and to accept such wages as the convict
     department might sanction. The object of this change was to
     reconcile the settlers to the continuance of transportation, by
     restoring an interest and authority which the probation system
     subverted.

     The men who had been promised comparative liberty on their arrival,
     complained bitterly of this change, and claimed to work as free
     servants with masters of their own choice. Earl Grey expressed
     strong disapproval of this return to a system expressly repudiated
     by his party, and condemned by himself, and ordered the governor to
     compensate the men for breach of faith. August 4. 1851; No. 156.

     The discovery of gold has altered the prospects of laborers. The
     amazing productiveness of the gold fields has withdrawn almost all
     good free labor from the colony. The active convict has the means
     of earning large wages, or of reaching the gold fields at an
     expense estimated at £5, including hush money. Thus the Gazette,
     from January 6, to March 30, 1852, shows the absconding of 492, and
     the arrest of 254. Yet many are not reported, and are therefore not
     included in these lists.

     The incessant agitation of the colonies has produced considerable
     activity in the department, and external decency is respected. The
     more prominent establishments--both male and female, are creditably
     kept, and probably the internal evils are abated; and yet what can
     be hoped for men who, on their discharge from detention, recognise
     everywhere the associations and the haunts of convictism?