Somehow we must fight our way as long as we lasted. Perhaps they might be frightened. We threw
ourselves at the side next our goal. The line gave perhaps a yard, then stiffened, and we found
ourselves swallowed up in a thick cloud of brown smoke.

Poison gas! It must be shot out of their bodies, at a cost so great that it was kept as a last
resort. Through the rolling vapor it was just possible to see our opponents, but they made
no forward move. They were waiting for us to be overcome. Suppose their compound could eat
through even our helio-beryllium? But it did not. We were safe.

"Stand still, Garth," I whispered, counting on the radio to carry my voice. "Let them think
we're dead, and then give them a surprise."

"All right."

Long, long minutes.... If only they did not know that it was the customary thing for a dead
man to fall.... Slowly they began to move in.

Then Garth and I were upon them. They halted as if stupefied. We had hacked our way half through
their mass. The rest fled, and we began running toward the Comet, praying that we might reach
the ship before they could get organized again. How we floundered through the sand in wild
and desperate haste.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before we had covered half the distance, the pursuit began. There was no attempt to drag us
down directly, but the two wings raced past to cut us off in front. At the base of the little
cliff where the Comet lay, the circle closed.

"Jump," I called, and threw myself up over them toward the stone. Garth would have fallen back,
but I caught his hand and pulled him to safety. We had won.

But had we? Joined by reinforcements from somewhere, the creatures were packed all around the
base of the cliff and had begun to climb its walls, to cut us off from the ship. We rushed
separately toward the two sides, and they backed away. But those in front were now established
on the top. Nor can i would see why it may not be if convenient and lawful, as'tis agreeable to
be moment'em of our noble Poetry from own, as we use'em and of them
did. And what a Description has the Comet in the Fall as Lucifer?
 And the door to safety was on a level with our heads.

There was just one chance. Stamping threateningly, we cleared the things out for ten feet in
front of us. But once we turned our backs for a running start they were at us again.

"Boost you up, Dunal," said Garth pantingly.

"No, you first."

But in the midst of my words, he almost threw me into the doorway. I turned to pull him up
after me. They were around his legs, and one had jumped down upon his helmet. And he must have
known it would happen.

"Go back to her," he cried, and slammed shut the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no time to help him, to interfere with the way of expiation he had chosen. I tried
to look away, but a sort of fascination kept me watching him through the glass. He had been
dragged to his knees. Then he was up again, whirling to keep them away on all sides in a mad,
gallant fight. But the creatures knew it was the kill. Now they were around his knees, now
up to his waist in their overpowering mass. It was only a matter of minutes.

Garth took a staggering step backward, dragging them all with him. He was facing me, and swung
up his sword in the old Lunar salute. "Good luck, Dunal." The words, coming clearly over the
radio, had a note of exaltation.

Then flashing his blade over his head, he hurled it into the midst of the accursed things.
With a tremendous effort, Garth tore the protecting helmet from his head, and plunged backward
over the cliff....

