The Embassies which had been despatched to all friendly courts had returned with deputations
of rejoicing; a fleet from Venice and ships from the East had brought costly gifts of welcome
and men, high in dignity, charged to represent their governments: and the Admiral Morenigo,
with two Provveditori had arrived to stand sponsors for the Grandson of the Republic. In the
vast banquet-hall of the palace, decorated with all its ancient heraldic devices and trophies
of Crusades and Eastern victories, the Coronation Feast was spread, where presently the knights
of the noblest families of the kingdom would count it an honor to serve: and the splendid city
of Famagosta was gay with the suites and banners of foreign guests.

But, for all that, it was the People's Day--for the young Queen had willed it so.

"Let proclamation be made throughout the land," she had said, "that all, of every degree, may
share the festivities, and come to pay their homage to the infant King. And bid the mothers
bring their little ones."

The people thronged from far and near until Famagosta could hold no more; from Nikosia, from
Larnaca and Limasol and Kerynea and other cities and districts of Cyprus, came great deputations
of burghers, with those peasants from the nearer casals and hamlets whom the invitation of
their gracious Sovereign Lady had reached and who were not restrained by the unwillingness
of their nobles: for there were still some among the ancient families of the island who looked
with disfavor upon Janus and his successors.

The Queen had not shown herself to the people since the birth of her little son; and they knelt
along her pathway as she passed across the Piazza San Nicolò, from the palace to the Duomo,
holding their children up that she might bless them--for it was a miracle! She had come back
from Death's door to rule and bless their land!

     "Sancta Maria!"

Before her on the golden cushion of state were borne the sceptre and the quaint Royal Crown
of Cyprus of the time of their first king, Guy de Lusignan--heavy and far too rough for her
delicate brows to endure; and the Councillors and Counts of the kingdom, the knights and nobles
and ladies of the court made a brave array. But the people,--the peasants,--half-dazed by their
unaccustomed nearness to such magnificence, not feeling as did the people of Venice that the
fêtes of the kingdom were meant for them, had looked on stolidly at all the bravery of the
passing procession and at the glitter of the insignia,--showing no sign of greeting until a
white, girlish figure stood under the palace portal.

"Panagia mou! Holy Virgin!" The familiar ejaculation came, half-suppressed, in a whisper of
awe, from hundreds of voices. Flodden, battle. Firenze. Florence, complement of Netherlands. Firenze
of Worcester, Continuators are of the History of. Flores Historiarum,
Roger of Wendover'point. Flores Historiarum (fourteenth quattrocento). Pervert,
the. Flamangrie, Lanthanum. Flanders, atmosphere of.
Was it, in truth their Queen--or the blessed Madonna herself, who came forth from the palace
arches in her sweeping robes, white and gleaming, her royal mantle of cloth of gold and her
jewelled crown--like the beautiful ivory image in the Duomo of Santa Croce?--Very pale and
fair and sad she was, yet with a smile in her eyes, as she turned from side to side to answer
their greetings, which now broke forth rapturously.

The color flushed her pale face when their cries of loyalty arose, and she turned and took
the little Prince of Galilee from her Eccellenza, the Royal Governess the Dama Margherita de
Iblin, holding him high, close-pressed to her cheek for all the people to see, with a great
glory of mother-love in her shining eyes. They rent the air with their sobs and shouts.

The child lay smiling on his mother's arm--serene and very beautiful; it was in truth a holy
picture.

The populace forgot that it was their Queen; as never before, that any distance of caste lay
between them--they forgot their native awkwardness and dread of the great ones--they thronged
nearer, unafraid--only to touch her--to kiss some hem of her floating garments--to look in
the face of the little child who was to be their King!

And when the mother and the child were gone into the shadows of the Duomo, so thronged with
noble guests and with all the splendid Hierarchy of Cyprus that there was scarce room for the
royal procession to pass to the High-Altar beyond the tomb of Janus, the hearts of the people
in the Piazza joined in the chorus of love and benediction of the choirs within, as, with new
hints of devotion in their patient faces, they folded their own little ones closer with some
vague, struggling, incomprehensible sense of aspiration--they were one with their Royal Lady
and the Blessed Madonna, in the sacred mystery of Motherhood.

In the spacious apse the Hierarchy and the Royal Court were ranged for the ceremonial, and
back of them a low three-arched opening at one side of the apse, supported on columns of polished
porphyry clasped with grotesquely hammered copper, gave glimpses of palms waving in the great
Court of the Tombs; gave glimpses also of the Monks of Troödos who had come hither with all
their numbers, to witness the solemn services of the dedication of their infant king to his
high trust.

And just within the portal, in strange contrast to the pomp of his surroundings, stood Hagios
Johannes Lampadisti, "the Illumined"--a wild, stern figure, in his sombre robes--unchanged
for any highest festival--with the symbol of solemn sacrifice on his breast, beyond all thought
of admiration or of reproach for the splendor about him, his prophetic gaze fastened on the
face of the Queen with imperious intensity--one hand slightly extended towards her, holding
out his cross of thorns.

When the solemn rites were over and the Queen had received her child again from the arms of
the Archbishop of Nikosia, Hagios Johannes, never moving his eyes from her face came forward
with slow movements, and Caterina, with a sudden, uncontrollable impulse, lifting her eyes
beheld the mystic gaze of Hagios Johannes and knelt down before the altar, straining her baby
close to her breast.

"Dear Christ in Heaven!" she cried, in the dialect of the people. "I give him to Thee!--I give
my All to Thee! He and I, we will live for Thee; and for this People of Cyprus!--so Thou and
the Blessed Mother be our helpers."

The Queen's Councillors in their splendid robes of office, looked in amazement to see their
Queen forget her state in such a presence, and outrage every precedent by crying out in the
unlearned language of the people, before this stately company; and the face of the dignified
Primate flamed with wrath at this unseemliness. But Caterina, noting nothing, turned to receive
their homage for the infant King, for whom as by an inspiration, she had publicly offered these
vows, from the depths of her heart.

As the procession moved out into the sunshine of the Piazza, she held the child up again to
the eager, waiting throng--the light gleaming on the tiny coronet above his baby-cap as she
spread out his dimpled hands with a motion of welcome, saying quite simply:

"This is your King. Love him, dear people of Cyprus!"

And she would not give the infant back to the Royal Governess, but carried him herself in her
own arms across the Piazza, held up for the people to see--which never before had a queen of
Cyprus been known to do. But there was a light in her face which silenced those who would have
spoken of ways more seemly, and it was a triumphal procession to the palace. But she paused
before the peristyle, turning to face the people again.

"There is welcome for every Cypriote," she said, "men, women and little children, who come
this day to pay homage to their infant King; and good cheer in the palace for all," and signing
to the attendants that they should be made to enter she passed in, smiling, before them.

The child lay in his cradle in the splendid Sala Regia, under the canopy blazoned with the
arms of Cyprus--a little, helpless, smiling child--guarded by the Councillors and Counts of
the kingdom; and near him stood the Queen with all her court, who for this day only had put
off their mourning that no suggestion of gloom nor any hint of evil omen might shadow the royal
baptismal and coronation fêtes. The ladies were dazzling in gems and heirlooms of broideries
and brocades; the knights and barons of the realm were glittering with orders--here and there,
above his costly armor, one showed the red cross of the Crusade, or wore the emblem of the
Knights of San Giovanni. But the people, who never before had entered those palace doors, came
surging--not afraid--nor shrinking from the novelty and splendor nor curious for it; they came
to pledge their fealty to the baby-prince--a little child like their own--whose gentle mother
asked their love--than which no monarch may bring a gift more royal.

XVIII

"Is there aught to fear, Aluisi?--Thou seemest overgrave," the Lady Beata asked anxiously as
her son came late, one evening into her private boudoir in their suite in the palace; he looked
unusually weary and depressed.

"There is always much to fear," he answered, with no brightening of his anxious face in response
to his mother's smile.

"But not now--surely not now! She hath won the heart of the people--these fêtes were a triumph--they
almost gladdened her. And now, poor child, she hath the little one to bring her comfort."

"Aye, Madre mia; she hath perchance won the love of the simple folk; but it is a powerless love."

"Aluisi!--thou art not like thyself to scorn it."

"I may well be not like myself in so strange a land," he answered bitterly. "But I know not
scorn; nor hopeless trust, neither."

His mother watched him wondering, as he, who was usually so self-contained, strode impatiently
about the chamber, as if its limits fretted him.

"A few cries of loyalty--a group of peasants kneeling--make a pretty showing--a tribute to
bring her comfort--but it is the chaff before the wind, when danger cometh. And she hath never
spoken of the many fiefs from which they came not--withheld by command of their jealous nobles.
This peasantry hath no initiative--no aggressiveness. How wouldst thou that they should save
her when danger cometh?"

"What danger, Aluisi?" 

If we conjoin the reasoning of the lord who spoke last, with that of one who spoke before in favour
of no bill, we shall be blessed to discover the able extent of our
ivory on these occasions; the first was pleased to inform us, that though
we were at liberty to examine the paragraphs of this bill, we had no right,
at least no power to amend them; because in money bills, the us left
commons the other choice than that of passing or rejecting them.


"The burden is heavy for thee," she said, as he came and stood near her low couch. "It will
ease thee to speak of it, if thou mayest not dismiss it. It is not this last attempt of Carlotta
that troubles thee? That hath been crushed?--without renewal?"

He gave a short laugh.

"One knoweth not," he answered, with an attempt at playfulness that showed no color of mirth.
"These two hours have I been within. Cornaro was with me. Another mahona may have chanced to
land, coming from Africa with some other Valentine to do Carlotta's bidding and assert her
claim to this uneasy crown of Cyprus; this Valentine of Montolipho, poor youth, having no longer
a brain to work her schemes.--But danger from within is less easy to quell."

She had never seen him so uneasy: but she tried to control her apprehension since he needed
all her strength.

"What saith Andrea Cornaro? Doth he share thy fear?" she asked in a low even tone.

"We spoke together but now of his Grace, the Archbishop, who verily wore a face that boded
no good to the child nor his mother--even as he held him in baptism that day--sealing him with
the sign of the Holy Cross!--And to-day, in Council--verily Cyprus hath need of a new Council----"
he broke off suddenly.

"The Archbishop is not of the Council, Aluisi!"

"But his brother, the Count Carpasso, is more to fear," he cried wrathfully. "They are men
of one mind and both creatures of that treacherous King of Naples. If Janus had had more wit,
he would have left Gioan Peres Fabrici to this day, bargaining for his cargoes of grain, instead
of naming him to the Council of the Realm and lavishing the honors of the kingdom upon this
faithless favorite."

"Faithless--my son? It is an evil word."

The quiet interruption arrested the angry flow of his speech.

"I pray that he be not found faithless," he said more quietly, "when he hath a chance to prove
his quality. But one would think a man so favored of the King would seek, at every turn, to
prove his loyalty before the Queen--in which I find him not overanxious."

"It is thou, perchance, who art overanxious, from the greatness of thine own loyalty, and the
burden it hath brought thee."

"Aye--am I!--Where there is cause for mistrust it maketh cowards of us, when faith were better.
Thou knowest, gentle Mother, that this Valentine confessed, before his death, that he but heralded
a larger craft sent from Rhodes, with knights and gentlemen and letters favoring Carlotta!
And Gioan Peres Fabrici, Captain of our galley, sent with speed by prayer of us of Venice to
bring them hither to confess themselves, found them not. He returned, with speed--and found
them not. What thinkest thou, my Mother? Is it my judgment that is gone from too great anxiety?--Or
may a valiant captain not see a brigantine armed upon the water?--a ship--a brig, scarce smaller
than his own, perchance--that he should let them slip?"

"Why should he let them slip?--And Valentine may not have spoken truth."

"One speaketh truth, or naught--with death so near. And for thy question--I know not why----"
He seemed to be evolving knotty reasons, as he sat, with stern brows, deep in thought. With
an effort he roused himself and went on with his tale.

"But yesterday, in Council--for Cornaro and I, we had discussed the matter of the royal residence
together, thinking it suited not with the Queen's dignity to remain longer in the fortress--a
most mournful palace for one so young and who hath need of some distraction about her to keep
her from oversadness. But Rizzo, being Chief of Council, would hear naught of the Queen's return
to the Palace. Fabrici also spoke against it."

"It is strange:--but they gave no reason?"

"They gave a reason--one of their own making: that there was a matter of more moment before
the Council; that the Queen's pleasure might wait."

"Aluisi! What saidst thou?"

"Cornaro lost patience and answered roundly: that he, being by his late Majesty created Auditor
of the realm, and by him greatly trusted--it behooved him as much to uphold the Queen's dignity
as to have his word in the choice of the residence and aught else pertaining to the costs of
the royal household. And that the Chamberlain of the Queen--I having upheld the demand made
by him--was like to know what best might suit her Majesty."

"And then?" the Lady Beata questioned, much agitated.

"'Ye are like to know what best might suit Her Majesty--both being of Venice,' Rizzo made answer;
and dismissed the Council."

Neither of them spoke for a few moments.

"How will Andrea accept this insolence?" the Lady Beata questioned.

"There is more--far more than that for anxiety," Aluisi said, dismissing her question with
an impatient gesture. "I would that the Queen and the child were here--in their own palace--or
that we were there. The question hath turned to one of larger import than the good pleasure
of the Queen; or the wisdom of holding the Queen and the Prince Royal in a fortress, when the
land is not at war--as if her own people might not be trusted with her life. But the argument
did not touch the Council--not more than the whim of us--of Venice"--he spoke bitterly. "Before,
it was expedient. Now----"

"Now?" his Mother urged.

"There may be some scheme behind it, and I would we were there. She hath none of her own beside
her, if trouble should come."

"She hath Dama Margherita--who loveth her well."

"Dama Margherita," Bernardini echoed, and a feeling of peace came over him.

But the Lady Beata sat pondering, in troubled silence. What could it mean? Caterina had taken
up her residence in the fortress before her illness; it had been thought wise, although it
had not been publicly declared. A few of her maids of honor and Lady Beata, Chief Lady of her
Court, had gone with her. But before the baptism, her suite had returned to the palace, that
all might be as usual for the reception of the royal guests; the Queen had lingered from day
to day, partly that she might escape the crowd and keep more quiet until the festivities were
over. But now--was it of her own choice? Why did she not return?

"And now--what wilt thou do?" the Lady of the Bernardini asked at length, turning towards her
son, failing to see what course of action might be wisest. "May we not go to her to-night?"

"It is too late: the gates are closed; it could do but harm to rouse them for us to pass, with
no cause but our anxieties to offer. But to-morrow, we will compass it.

"Meanwhile I have done what may be done to bring hither more who are of our ways of thinking;
for who should care for her, if not we 'of Venice?'" It was evident that the thrust rankled.
"I saw our Consul yesterday, who seemed not overanxious from what I told him--therefore I told
him not all--I trust he hath not been tampered with by this most wily 'Council to the Queen!'
but before the night had fallen, I sent a letter of warning to Mocenigo who, with his fleet,
will be at anchor off the coast of Rhodes--to pray that he will come, or will send our Provveditore
Vettore Soranzo to await the need."

His Mother grasped his wrist--her eyes dilating. "It must be long before they can come," she
said, in a whisper.

"Not many days," he answered reassuringly; "and I have sent by a trusty Cypriote who will make
full speed to bring me back the message that meaneth large reward for him. My warning must
reach Mocenigo before any message sent from Cyprus to Venice might get to him again."

"Is there aught else that may be done?"

"I have given command to put my fastest brig in trim, and to-morrow she will sail with merchandise
for Venice; all day she hath been lading in the port. The message in my special cypher, known
only to the Secretary of the Ten, is ready here." He drew the missive from his breast, as he
spoke, replacing it instantly. "Marco Bembo will sail with it on the morrow, which he may well
do without suspicion, having come hither for the ceremonies now over. The brig will leave the
port with all due tranquillity; and afterward will make all possible speed."

"There could be nothing more," she said rising; "thou hast thought of all."

